-- Sprint to Open Up Books to Dish After SoftBank Waiver
-- B y   T e r j e   L a n g e l a n d   a n d   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2013-05-21T20:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/sprint-to-give-dish-non-public-data-after-softbank-grants-waiver.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  will give private
financial data to  Dish (DISH)  Network Corp., letting the satellite
carrier build a case for its $25.5 billion takeover offer.  Sprint, which has already agreed to a $20.1 billion
proposal from  SoftBank Corp. (9984) ,  got a waiver from the Japanese
company yesterday to provide non-public information to Dish,
according to a statement. Sprint said its board hasn’t made a
decision on Dish’s bid and continues to back SoftBank’s
proposal, though it has the right to terminate the agreement for
a superior offer.  SoftBank, which said today it plans to sell 400 billion yen
($3.9 billion) of bonds, is targeting Sprint as billionaire
Masayoshi Son seeks U.S. expansion while  Japan ’s population ages
and shrinks. Dish Chairman Charlie Ergen is pushing to break
into the wireless-phone market, letting him offer a bundle of
television, Internet and mobile-phone services.  “Sprint has done this because it can maintain fairness in
the deal process and can have an explanation for its
shareholders,” said Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at Ace Securities
Co. in Tokyo The new debt issue will help “prepare for the
worst scenario in which SoftBank has to raise its bid,” said
Yasuda, who has the equivalent of a buy rating on SoftBank
shares.  SoftBank, Japan’s third-largest carrier, will sell the
five-year bonds to retail investors, the company said in a
filing today with Japan’s Finance Ministry. The proceeds will be
used to repay maturing debt and help fund the takeover,
spokesman  Takeaki Nukii  said today.  Dish Financing  SoftBank  fell  3.8 percent to 5,850 yen at the close in
Tokyo, while Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained
0.1 percent. Overland Park, Kansas-based Sprint rose 1.4 percent
to $7.39 at the close in New York, and shares of Englewood,
Colorado-based Dish rose 3.2 percent to $39.93.  Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, agreed to
a takeover in October by Tokyo-based SoftBank, which has its
financing in place and offered to give the U.S. wireless carrier
an $8 billion cash infusion as part of the deal. Dish stepped in
with its counteroffer last month, seeking to expand into the
mobile-phone business to offset a decline in satellite
television.  “We look forward to engaging in full due diligence,”
Ergen said in a statement. “We remain confident that this
process will confirm the superiority of our proposal.”  Meanwhile, Sprint today increased its bid for full control
of wireless-network partner  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  to $3.40 a share, up
14 percent from a previous bid of $2.97 a share. Dish had
offered $3.30 a share. Clearwire, which was scheduled to vote on
Sprint’s earlier offer today, delayed the decision until May 30.  ‘Greater Value’  SoftBank understands Sprint has an obligation to evaluate
competing offers and granted the waiver so the U.S. carrier can
complete the process without causing delays, the Japanese
company said in its statement.  “We continue to believe that our agreed transaction, which
we plan to close in approximately six weeks, creates
substantially greater value and provides far greater certainty
for Sprint shareholders,” SoftBank Holdings Inc. President Ron Fisher said.  Sprint has tentatively set June 12 as the date for
shareholders to vote on the Japanese company’s bid. SoftBank
plans to complete its offer under the announced terms on July 1
“or as soon as possible thereafter,” it said.  Dish is arranging the financing it would need to outbid
SoftBank. It’s already raising about $2.6 billion in a bond
offering managed by Barclays Plc, Jefferies Group LLC, Macquarie
Group Ltd. and Royal Bank of  Canada .  Dish is close to tapping the same banks for loans to help
reach its goal of $9.3 billion in financing for the Sprint
transaction, people familiar with the matter said May 15.  Estimated Savings  “There can be no assurance that the Dish proposal will
ultimately lead to a superior offer,” Sprint said in its
statement. “The Sprint board of directors has not changed its
recommendation with respect to, and continues to support, the
company’s pending transaction with SoftBank.”  Sprint didn’t previously give Dish access to certain
detailed financial information, a key step in the merger
process, in part because of concern over the satellite carrier’s
ability to fund the proposal, people familiar with the
discussions said this month.  Sprint’s directors also have doubts about Dish’s estimates
that the merged company would have $11 billion in cost savings,
people familiar with the deliberations said this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terje Langeland in  Tokyo  at 
 tlangeland1@bloomberg.net ;
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  