-- Spurs Plan Clearout to Build Around Bale, Mirror Says: Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-21T10:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/spurs-plan-clearout-to-build-around-bale-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Tottenham Clearout  Tottenham plans a major clearout after failing to qualify
for the Champions League, the  Mirror said .  Emmanuel Adebayor, Clint Dempsey, Jermain Defoe,  William Gallas , Tom Huddlestone and Scott Parker are among the players
who may go as manager Andre Villas-Boas looks to build his squad
around Gareth Bale, the Mirror said.  Christian Benteke of Aston Villa and David Villa of
Barcelona are two of Spurs’ targets, along with Zenit St.
Petersburg’s Hulk and Lyon’s Lisandro Lopez, the newspaper said.  Rooney’s Future  New Manchester United manager  David Moyes  is hopeful of
persuading  Wayne Rooney  to stay at the Premier League champion,
the  Guardian said .  Moyes will make resolving Rooney’s future one of his top
priorities, the Guardian said. The striker last month met with
former manager  Alex Ferguson  and asked to leave if he wasn’t
guaranteed a regular starting spot, the newspaper said.  Rooney, who has two years left on his current contract,
played under Moyes at Everton and is open to a fresh start, the
paper added.  Falcao Exit  Manchester City target Radamel Falcao has been told he can
leave Atletico Madrid as a reward for helping the club reach the
Champions League, the  Sun said .  City faces competition from Monaco, which is considering a
50 million-pound ($76 million) bid for the Colombian, who is
third in La Liga behind  Lionel Messi  and Cristiano Ronaldo with
28 goals.  Closing on Kolo  Liverpool is closing in on the signing of Manchester City
defender Kolo Toure in the wake of Jamie Carragher’s retirement,
the  Telegraph said .  Toure, 32, is available on a free transfer will have a
medical exam at Liverpool after City’s tour of the U.S. this
month, the Telegraph said. Reds manager  Brendan Rodgers  has also
expressed interest in Schalke’s Kyriakos Papadopoulos and
Sporting Lisbon’s Tiago Llori, the newspaper said.  Dunne Deal  Aston Villa will not renew the contract of defender Richard Dunne, the  Telegraph said .  Dunne, 33, has been hampered by hip and groin injuries over
the last year and has yet to play under manager  Paul Lambert ,
the Telegraph said. He’s been told he could look for a new club
after his 50,000 pounds-per-week deal expires next month, the
newspaper said.  Lambert will also meet with  Darren Bent , Shay Given and
Stephen Ireland about their futures. The three all earn more
than 3 million pounds a year and have rarely played with Lambert
in charge, the Telegraph said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 