-- Stoke Manager Tony Pulis Leaves Soccer Team After Seven Seasons
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-21T23:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/stoke-manager-tony-pulis-leaves-soccer-team-after-seven-seasons.html
Stoke City manager Tony Pulis left
the English Premier League soccer club, ending a seven-year run
in which he took the team back to the top flight and into its
first F.A. Cup final.  Pulis, 55, was in his second stint at Stoke, having led the
club from 2002-05. After being rehired in June 2006, Pulis
guided the Potters to promotion to the elite division in 2008
after a 23-year absence. The team finished 13th this season with
42 points, its lowest tally in five Premier League campaigns.  “Stoke City and Tony Pulis confirm that they have mutually
agreed that Tony will leave the club with immediate effect,”
read a statement on Stoke’s website late yesterday.  Pulis drew criticism from Stoke fans this season as the
club finished six points above the relegation zone. The Potters
were eighth at the midway point of the season after beating
Liverpool 3-1 on Dec. 26, though won three of their final 19
league games to fall down the standings.  Pulis first took over at Stoke in 2002 and stayed for three
years before a season at Plymouth. He returned to the Potters
and led Stoke back into the top division by finishing second in
the Championship in the 2007-08 season.  Though the club never finished in the top half of the
Premier League, it reached the F.A. Cup final for the first time
in 2011, losing 1-0 to Manchester City.  That qualified the Potters for Europe’s second-tier Europa
League the following season, where they advanced to the round of
32 before losing to Spanish club Valencia.  Following Alex Ferguson’s retirement at Manchester United
and David Moyes’s hiring as his replacement, Pulis was the
second-longest serving manager in  England  behind Arsenal’s
Arsene Wenger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  