-- Swaps Vote Is Another Big Win for the Big Banks
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2013-05-21T21:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/swaps-vote-is-another-big-win-for-the-big-banks.html
Click on the section of the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission website about the 2010 Dodd-Frank
financial-reform law and the first thing that jumps out is a
quotation, in bold, from CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler about how
Dodd-Frank would transform the derivatives market -- for the
better.  “The Wall Street reform bill will -- for the first time --
bring comprehensive regulation to the swaps marketplace,” wrote
Gensler. “Swap dealers will be subject to robust oversight.
Standardized derivatives will be required to trade on open
platforms and be submitted for clearing to central
counterparties. The commission looks forward to implementing the
Dodd-Frank bill to lower risk, promote transparency and protect
the American public.”  Ah, if only things had turned out that way.  Instead, almost three years after Dodd-Frank became law --
during which time there was at least a glimmer of hope that by
requiring opaque and hard-to-value swaps and derivatives to be
traded on an exchange, market pricing would prevail -- the CFTC
 voted  May 16 for a watered-down compromise. It allows swaps and
derivatives dealers -- essentially the big Wall Street banks --
to continue to set the prices for these financial instruments
using their black boxes.  It’s yet another example of how Wall Street uses its “death
by a thousand cuts” strategy to get what it wants and to
essentially neuter hoped-for regulation that had the potential
to be truly useful. Frankly, the CFTC’s 4-to-1 vote is both
distressing and disappointing.  Cloudy Pricing  In the end, the commission agreed to make a minor change in
the way swaps and derivatives are traded. In the good old days,
before Dodd-Frank, if Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. wanted to enter into a swap, they negotiated the price
among themselves. Assuming they could agree, they did the deal.
Aside from the bankers at those two Wall Street behemoths, no
one else would know the price of the deal. This lack of price
transparency of hard-to-value financial instruments became a big
problem in the year or so leading up to the financial crisis of
September 2008.  In one example, by selling credit-default swaps,  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  agreed to insure the price of billions
of dollars of Goldman Sachs’s mortgage-backed securities and
collateralized-debt obligations. But as the value of these
securities fell in the marketplace, Goldman had the ability to
demand more and more collateral from AIG as a way to insure that
AIG would make good on its agreements. If Goldman believed an
AIG-insured CDO it owned was worth 60 cents on the dollar, it
could demand that AIG post the remaining 40 cents as collateral.
Not surprisingly, AIG and Goldman eventually got into collateral
disputes, with Goldman demanding billions of dollars of
additional collateral from the insurer, and AIG disagreeing with
Goldman’s valuations. In the end, AIG made some payments to
Goldman -- in the billions of dollars -- but Goldman’s
collateral demands unquestionably exacerbated AIG’s collapse and
eventual federal takeover.  Under the CFTC’s new rules, Morgan Stanley and Goldman
Sachs can no longer unilaterally agree among themselves on the
pricing of a swap deal -- there is now a requirement that one
other firm also submit a price. Whichever firm offers the seller
of the swap the better price would prevail. And, for the first
time ever, after the price of the deal is agreed on, it will be
displayed on an electronic terminal, such as a Bloomberg, and an
“audit trail” will be created that the CFTC can monitor. (As a
minor concession to greater openness, starting 15 months from
now, under the new CFTC rules, a third bidder -- as opposed to
just two bidders -- would be required to submit a price before a
trade can occur.)  Commission Gadfly  That may look good on paper, but looks are deceiving. The
problem is that the CFTC commissioners seeking genuine reform of
the swaps and derivatives markets -- including Gensler and Bart Chilton, who has been the toughest-minded member of the
commission since joining in 2007 -- had wanted to require that
as many as five firms submit prices. That makes sense: As in any
market, the more transparency and more bidders, the more price
clarity there would be. With just one additional bid required,
the big boys should have no trouble gaming the system, as they
have for years. And price transparency itself means little if
the bidding isn’t fully open.  Unfortunately, Gensler and Chilton couldn’t muster the one
additional vote needed among the five members. Instead of
meaningful change in the way swaps and derivatives are traded
and prices set, we are left with a disappointing compromise and
the likelihood of cartel pricing by the big banks for years to
come. And Wall Street has won for itself yet another victory in
its seemingly never-ending campaign to whittle away Dodd-Frank
to irrelevance while no one else is looking.  Chilton ended up voting for the measure -- he knew he was
voting for something he didn’t like, but decided to try “holding
my nose” and voting yes so that there would be at least some
tiny bit of price transparency. “I’ve never been a more
reluctant and reticent regulator than today on these rules,”
Chilton said during the meeting. “I just wish we had reached a
different compromise.”  In an interview, he said the compromise was the “worst
thing” he had voted for as a CFTC commissioner and that when the
drafters of Dodd-Frank asked for “multiple” bids on swaps and
derivatives, “they meant more than two, that’s for sure.” He
said the CFTC’s vote met the “bare minimum of acceptability
under the law and was far less than those who voted for Dodd-Frank had hoped for.”  “Did Wall Street win on a few individual provisions on this
rule?” Chilton said. “They sure as hell did.”  Next up for Wall Street’s grinder: Whatever remains of the
so-called Volcker rule, which would restrict proprietary trading
at banks holding federally insured deposits. Even though the
rule is supposed to be implemented by next year, Chilton said it
remains the province of the Federal Reserve and he has heard
nothing about it for months. “It’s MIA,” he said. “I don’t think
anyone cares about it anymore -- other than me.”  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase, against which he lost
an arbitration case over his dismissal. The opinions expressed
are his own.) 