-- Sweden Watchdog Raises Banks’ Mortgage Risk-Weight Floor to 15%
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-05-21T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/sweden-watchdog-raises-mortgage-risk-weight-floor-to-15-percent.html
Sweden ’s financial watchdog decided
to triple the risk-weight floor for mortgages, or the money
Swedish banks need to set aside to protect against housing loan
losses, after household debt burdens continue to swell.  Swedish banks including  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Swedbank
AB (SWEDA) ,  SEB AB (SEBA)  and  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  need to have a mortgage risk-weight floor of 15 percent, the Stockholm-based Financial
Supervisory Authority said in a  statement  yesterday. The largest
banks currently have risk weights on mortgages as low as 5
percent, the FSA has said. The decision was in line with the
regulator’s proposal late last year to raise risk-weights.  The financial watchdog “is implementing a risk-weight
floor of 15 percent for Swedish mortgages,” the regulator,
known as FI in Sweden, said. “The new risk-weights, which
entail a change in FI’s supervisory practices, will go into
effect immediately as part of FI’s supervisory measures.”  Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  and the country’s
central bank have repeatedly warned against the rising consumer
debt level, which has grown to 173 percent of disposable incomes
and is estimated by the Riksbank to reach 177 percent in early
2015. While household borrowing growth has  slowed in Sweden 
since a cap on mortgages was introduced in 2010, household
lending growth still stood at an annual 4.6 percent in March.  Largest Banks  When announcing the proposal on Nov. 26, the FSA said the
new rule would mean the largest banks would need to set aside an
additional 20 billion kronor ($3 billion), including 7.2 billion
kronor for Swedbank and 5.5 billion kronor for Handelsbanken,
Sweden’s two largest mortgage lenders.  Sweden is also tightening  capital requirements . Its four
biggest banks need to hold at least 10 percent core Tier 1
capital of their risk-weighted assets this year, and 12 percent
by 2015. That compares with Basel III’s 7 percent requirement by
2019 and a 9 percent minimum standard for some European banks.  The lenders already exceed the stricter rules, even those
applying from 2015. Nordea reported a 13.2 percent core Tier 1
ratio of risk-weighted assets for the first quarter, under Basel
II rules. At Swedbank, the ratio was 17.3 percent while SEB had
15.3 percent, by that measure. Under Basel III regulation,
Handelsbanken had a 17.5 percent ratio while Swedbank’s and
SEB’s stood at 16.4 percent and 13.4 percent.  Neighboring Norway is also introducing stricter rules for
its banks and has gone further than Sweden in its risk-weight
requirements as it tries to cool down the housing market. The
 Finance Ministry  in Oslo in December proposed tripling the risk-weights banks need to hold on mortgage assets to 35 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  