-- Sweden Prosecutors Arrest Former Saab Auto CEO on Tax Charge
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-05-21T14:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/swedish-prosecutors-arrest-former-saab-auto-ceo-on-tax-charges.html
Three former Saab Automobile
executives, including former Chief Executive Officer Jan-Aake
Jonsson and Chief Financial Officer Karl-Gustav Lindstroem, were
arrested by Swedish prosecutors in an accounting-fraud probe.  Three people were questioned yesterday on suspicion of
“grave attempts to complicate tax controls” during 2010 and
2011, Olof Sahlgren, the Swedish Economic Crime Authority’s
chief prosecutor, said by phone today, declining to give the
names of the arrested. Court documents filed in Vaenersborg
indicate Jonsson, Lindstroem and Saab’s former general counsel
Kristina Geers were detained.  The suspects were released today after questioning and are
still under suspicion, Sweden’s TT newswire reported.  The probe focuses on incidents before Saab filed for
bankruptcy in December 2011, almost two years after it was
purchased by Dutch supercar-maker  Spyker NV. (SPYKR)  Spyker, which
bought Saab from  General Motors Co. (GM) , was forced to halt
production due to a lack of cash before the insolvency.  “It’s about accounting measures to complicate the control
operation of the tax authority regarding the calculation of
taxes and fees,” Sahlgren said.  Bengt-Erik Sik, Geers’s lawyer, denied the accusations and
said in a telephone interview “we are all very shocked how this
is being handled.”  Helena Wising, Jonsson’s lawyer, said earlier she was on
her way to meet her client when reached on her mobile phone and
declined to comment further. Lindstroem’s lawyer, Bo Ahlenius,
was not immediately available to comment.  Accounting fraud carries a minimum prison sentence of six
months and a maximum sentence of four years, Sahlgren said.  National Electric Vehicle  Sweden  AB bought Saab out of
bankruptcy in August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Katarina Gustafsson in Stockholm at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  