-- Syria Rebels Threaten to Wipe Out Shiite, Alawite Towns
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-05-21T13:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/syria-rebels-threaten-to-wipe-out-shiite-alawite-towns.html
Communities inhabited by Shiite
Muslims and President Bashar al-Assad’s Alawite minority will be
“wiped off the map” if the strategic city of Al-Qusair in
central  Syria  falls to government troops, rebel forces said.  “We don’t want this to happen, but it will be a reality
imposed on everyone,” Colonel Abdel-Hamid Zakaria, a spokesman
for the Free Syrian Army in  Turkey , told Al-Arabiya television
yesterday. “It’s going to be an open, sectarian, bloody war to
the end.”  Fighter planes and heavy artillery pounded the city today,
the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in an e-mail. It said two people were killed during clashes between
rebels and government troops backed by Hezbollah fighters,
bringing the death toll from clashes at Al-Qusair in the last
three days to more than 90.  Al-Qusair is close to the highway linking Damascus to the
coast and has been a conduit for weapons from Lebanon to the
rebels. The government offensive began with attacks on villages
on the city’s outskirts last month.  Bassam al-Dada, a political adviser to the Free Syrian
Army, said from Istanbul yesterday that Assad’s forces were
still at the outskirts of the city. “Our people are still
fighting inside and very strongly, but it’s not an easy
situation,” he said.  ‘Major Setback’  “Failure to hold the town would be a major setback for
opposition forces, impacting their ability to maintain clear
lines of supply between safe havens in Lebanon and combat units
in Syria,” said David Hartwell, senior Middle East analyst at
IHS Jane’s.  The conflict in Syria, which began in March 2011, is
increasingly dividing the country and the surrounding region
along religious lines.  The Shiite Lebanese militia Hezbollah and Shiite-led Iran
have been key allies of the Assad government, whose upper ranks
come from the Alawite sect, derived from Shiite Islam. Leaders
of the rebel army and political opposition are mostly Sunni, and
they are backed by key Sunni powers including Saudi Arabia and
Turkey.  Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince and Minister of Defense Salman Bin Abdul Aziz is in Turkey to meet President Abdullah Gul and
Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  today, according to Turkey’s
state-run Anatolia news agency. The trip comes days after
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan met U.S. President
 Barack Obama .  Emergency Meeting  The Arab League will hold an emergency meeting today to
discuss Syria at the request of Qatar,  Egypt ’s state-run Middle
East News Agency reported. Talks will focus on Al-Qusair and the
participation of Hezbollah and the Iranian Revolutionary Guards
in the fighting, the agency cited an unidentified league
official as saying. Hezbollah is backed by Iran and is
classified as a terrorist group by Israel and the U.S.  Hezbollah’s open involvement in the Syrian crisis is
worrying because it pits the militia against Sunni extremist
groups, according to Hartwell.  “While it may suit states such as Qatar, Saudi Arabia and
even the United States to see this type of sectarian conflict
develop as a means of retarding the regional influence of  Iran 
(via Hezbollah) and al-Qaeda, the results in terms of long-term
regional instability could be dramatic,” Hartwell said in an e-mailed note.  U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry is returning to the
Middle East this week and is seeking to promote peace talks.
Syrian opposition leaders, due to meet May 23 in Istanbul to
choose a new leader, have rejected attendance at any peace
conference that includes Assad or his inner circle.  The Syrian uprising began with peaceful protests that
evolved into a civil war after the government began attacking
the demonstrators. Radical Islamists, some with ties to al-Qaeda, have since joined the fight against Assad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  