-- System That Spawned Oklahoma Tornado Moves East
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-05-22T15:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/system-that-spawned-oklahoma-tornado-moves-east.html
The storm system that spawned a
killer EF5 tornado in  Oklahoma  two days ago will wind down as it
brings thunderstorms to the eastern U.S. including  New York ,
Detroit and Boston, during the next two days.  There’s a slight chance severe storms will strike today in
a 305,000-square mile area from Lake Erie and the  Ohio  Valley to
Boston, where about 80 million people live, according to the
 U.S. Storm Prediction Center . There is also a 2 percent chance
of tornadoes across most of the area, including Boston.  An area from eastern Ohio to upstate New York has the
highest chance, 30 percent, of violent weather tomorrow.  “We do have a chance for some showers and thunderstorms
today, but probably more likely tomorrow,” said  Joe Pollina , a
 National Weather Service  meteorologist in Upton, New York.  The storms may also cause air traffic delays. Yesterday,
355 flights into and out of Dallas-Fort Worth International
Airport were canceled in part because of weather, according to
FlightAware, a Houston-based airline tracking service.  For almost a week, severe storms have torn through the
Great Plains and Midwest, spawning the twister that killed at
least 24 people in Moore, Oklahoma. The tornado churned along a
17-mile path that was 1.3 miles across at its widest point,
according to the  National Weather Service  in Norman, Oklahoma.  The storm was classified as an EF5, the strongest on the
six-step Enhanced Fujita scale, with winds in excess of 200
miles (322 kilometers) per hour.  Week’s Weather  “This storm system became organized across the high Plains
on Saturday and it’s almost been a full week of severe
weather,” said Andy Mussoline, a meteorologist at AccuWeather
Inc. in  State College ,  Pennsylvania , said by telephone. “It
comes through as a final shot during the day Thursday that’s
going to be the day when the I-95 corridor is at risk.”  The weather service said “multiple rounds of
thunderstorms” are expected to sweep today through southwestern
Michigan, bringing hail, winds as intense as 60 miles (97
kilometers) per hour and possible isolated tornadoes.  New York City  has a 30 percent chance of thunderstorms
today and a 60 percent chance tomorrow, according to the weather
service. The weekend is expected to be sunny with a high
temperature of 64 degrees Fahrenheit (18 Celsius) in  Manhattan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  