-- U.K. Needs Energy-Efficiency Goals to Hold Government to Account
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-05-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/u-k-needs-energy-efficiency-goals-to-hold-government-to-account.html
The U.K. government needs to set out
goals for its energy-efficiency programs so it can be held to
account for their progress, according to a panel of lawmakers.  The Department of Energy and Climate Change hasn’t set out
a time line of how many homes it wants insulated under the Green
Deal and Energy Companies Obligation programs set up in January
to improve efficiency of the nation’s 26.9 million residencies.  “It’s unacceptable that, three years into the life of this
parliament, ministers are unable to explain what success would
look like of one of the Coalition’s flagship policies,” Tim Yeo, chairman of the Energy and Climate Change Committee and a
member of the ruling Conservative Party, said in an e-mailed
statement. Without knowing the goals of a policy, it becomes
“impossible” to hold the government to account, he said.  The programs are designed to help the U.K. meet its target
to cut carbon emissions 34 percent from 1990 levels by 2020,
while at the same time keeping a lid on rising consumer bills.
The government’s Green Deal program may spur billions of pounds
in investment, Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  said in January.  The Green Deal allows homeowners to pay for upgrades such
as loft and wall insulation and double glazing through a charge
added to their power bills. The aim is for charges to be lower
than the savings people make from lower energy needs. The Energy
Companies Obligation is a program worth 1.3 billion pounds ($2
billion) a year to fund improvements for low-income households.  “It is only right that such a high-profile policy is
subject to proper scrutiny so that corrective measures can be
put in place quickly if it is failing to deliver,” Yeo said.  The energy department said on May 14 that so far, 18,816
properties have been  assessed  for a possible Green Deal. It
plans to give its first update on how many homeowners have
actually begun to implement measures on June 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  