-- U.K. Inflation Rate Falls More Than Forecast to 2.4%: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-05-21T10:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/u-k-inflation-slows-more-than-economists-forecast-to-2-4-1-.html
U.K. inflation  slowed more than
economists forecast in April to a seven-month low and producer
prices rose the least since 2009 as fuel costs fell.  Consumer prices rose 2.4 percent from a year earlier, down
from 2.8 percent in March, the  Office for National Statistics 
said in London today. The median forecast of 35 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was 2.6 percent.  Core inflation  also
cooled, while factory-gate prices increased at the slowest
annual pace in 3 1/2 years. The pound weakened.  The Bank of England lowered its forecasts for inflation
last week and said price growth may hit its 2 percent target
earlier than previously estimated. The central bank, which also
raised its growth projections, kept its bond-purchase program at
375 billion pounds ($569 billion) this month. Minutes of the
decision to be published tomorrow will show whether Governor
 Mervyn King  continued his bid to boost quantitative easing.  “Looking to short-term inflation in the U.K., it is still
likely to move higher in subsequent months,” said  David Tinsley , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in London. Still, the
data “support our view that inflationary pressures are set to
wane due both to lower imported price pressures and because
domestic cost pressures are subsiding.”  The pound extended its decline against the dollar after the
data, falling toward a six-week low. It was trading at $1.5173
as of 11:05 a.m. London time, down 0.5 percent from yesterday.
Against the euro, it weakened 0.5 percent to 84.82 pence.  Transport Costs  Transport costs subtracted 0.3 percentage point from the
annual inflation rate. The majority of that came from gasoline,
the statistics office said. Today’s figures are “good news for
families and businesses,” with inflation down by more than a
half from its peak of 5.2 percent in September 2011, the U.K.
Treasury in London said in a statement.  Core inflation , which excludes food, alcohol, energy and
tobacco, slowed to 2 percent, matching the  Bank of England ’s
overall goal for consumer-price growth, according to the
statistics office. That’s the least since November 2009.  Retail-price inflation , used in wage negotiations and as a
basis for the inflation-linked  bond market , was at 2.9 percent,
the lowest since September. It was the same excluding mortgage
interest payments.  The BOE sees inflation peaking at 3.1 percent in the third
quarter of this year, lower than it forecast in February. It
says annual price gains will slow to below its 2 percent goal in
the third quarter of 2015, compared with an earlier projection
for the first quarter of 2016.  Damaging  Still, inflation has been above target for more than three
years, and the Ernst & Young Item Club said yesterday that this
has been “very damaging for the U.K. economy.”  Marks & Spencer
Group Plc (MKS) , the U.K.’s largest clothing retailer, said today that
market conditions are “challenging.”  In a separate report, the statistics office said  factory-gate prices  fell 0.1 percent in April from March and rose 1.1
percent from a year earlier. Core output prices rose 0.1 percent
on the month and 0.8 percent on the year. Input prices fell 2.3
percent from March and 0.1 percent from a year earlier.  Easing inflation pressures may give the BOE more scope to
add to quantitative easing if policy makers decide more stimulus
is needed. King is due to retire next month and will be replaced
by Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , who has said central
banks aren’t “maxed out.”  “A 2.4 percent outturn ‘feels’ much less problematic than
2.8 percent and presents a more favorable backdrop for Mark
Carney should he be inclined to push for more aggressive
monetary activism,” said  Ross Walker , an economist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London.  ‘Better News’  Alan Clarke , an economist at Scotiabank in London, also
said inflation is “no longer an obstacle” to the BOE doing
more QE, though they may be less inclined in that direction
after raising their growth projections this month. The central
bank sees the economy growing 0.5 percent this quarter after 0.3
percent expansion in the three months through March.  “At this point what would cause them to pull the trigger
is a disaster on growth, and we’ve been getting better news
there,” he said.  In another report today, the ONS said annual U.K. house-price inflation accelerated in March to 2.7 percent from 1.9
percent in February. In London, prices increased 7.6 percent
from a year earlier.  Separately, the Bundesbank said  Germany’s recovery  will
gather pace in the current quarter after an exceptionally long
winter damped growth at the start of the year.  “Economic activity is expected to improve markedly,” the
Frankfurt-based central bank said in its monthly report. There
is likely to be “catch-up effects in response to the weather-related downturn in construction activity during last winter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  