-- Natural Gas Advances as Hot U.S. Weather Boosts Demand for Power
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-05-21T19:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/u-s-natural-gas-advances-as-hot-weather-boosts-demand-for-power.html
Natural gas futures gained for a
third day in  New York  as forecasts for hotter-than-normal
weather signaled increased demand from  power plants  to run air
conditioners.  Gas rose 2.5 percent as MDA Weather Services in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland , predicted above-normal temperatures
across most of the lower 48 states from May 26 through June 4.
The high in  Dallas  on June 3 may be 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32
Celsius), 3 more than usual, according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in
State College,  Pennsylvania .  “The forecasts for the beginning of June calling for some
heat helped drive the prices higher,” said  Gene McGillian , an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“The market catapulted back above $4 as some of the longs that
got shaken out below $3.90 are piling back in.”  Natural gas for June delivery climbed 10.2 cents to $4.192
per million British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest settlement price since May 1. Trading
volume was 16 percent below the 100-day average at 2:35 p.m.
Prices have risen 25 percent this year.  The discount of June to October futures, a measure of
supply expectations for the summer, narrowed 1.2 cents to 7.6
cents.  Options Trading  July $3.50 puts were the most active options in electronic
trading, falling 0.3 cent to 0.4 cent per million Btu on volume
of 1,247 at 2:44 p.m. Puts accounted for 56 percent of trading
volume.  Implied volatility for at-the-money options expiring in
July was 31.60 percent at 2:30 p.m., down from 31.79 percent
yesterday.  The forecast turned hotter for the next two weeks,
especially from the Midwest to the East, with higher-than-usual
readings in  Texas , MDA said. The warm-up follows mostly mild
weather seen in the eastern states during the first weeks of
May, according to AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,
Pennsylvania.  “The abrupt change in the weather, with above-normal
temperatures in the eastern half of the U.S., has triggered
concerns that storage injections will fall off sharply,” said
Teri Viswanath, director of commodities strategy at BNP Paribas
SA in New York. “The market will likely respond by pushing the
front of the curve up closer to the highs set in April.”  Inventory Outlook  Gas stockpiles probably expanded by 92 billion cubic feet
in the week ended May 17, based on the median of seven  analyst
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The five-year average gain for
the seven days is 90 billion, according to the Energy
Information Administration. Supplies rose by 75 billion a year
earlier.  The EIA report, scheduled for release on May 23, “should
take some wind out of the rally’s sails,”  John Kilduff , partner
at Again Capital LLC and editor of the Energy OverView
newsletter in New York, wrote today. “That should be enough to
remind folks that production remains at near-record levels,
despite the low rig count.”  U.S. inventories totaled 1.964 trillion cubic feet in the
week ended May 10, 4.1 percent below the five-year average for
the period, EIA data show. The  deficit  to the historic norm
narrowed from 5 percent the previous week while a  deficit  versus
year-earlier levels fell to 26.1 percent from 28.3 percent.  Gas production will climb to an all-time high for the sixth
straight year as increased output from shale deposits, such as
the Marcellus in the Northeast and the Bakken in  North Dakota ,
make up for a drop in conventional dry gas drilling, according
to the EIA.  Marketed gas output will rise to 69.9 billion cubic feet a
day in 2013 from 69.18 billion last year, the EIA said May 7 in
its  Short-Term Energy Outlook . The U.S. produced 84 percent of
its own energy last year, the most since 1991, according to data
from the EIA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 Nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  