-- Treasuries Advance After Fed Officials Back Bond-Buying Stimulus
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-05-21T21:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/u-s-10-year-yield-at-almost-2-month-high-before-bernanke-speaks.html
Treasuries rose for the first time in
three days as comments from Federal Reserve officials added to
speculation Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will emphasize the need to
sustain stimulus when he speaks before Congress tomorrow.  Treasury 10-year note yields  dropped  from two-month highs
after Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said the
central bank should continue its bond buying because it’s the
best available option for policy makers to boost growth. Fed
Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said he hasn’t
decided whether the Fed’s next move should be to enlarge or to
shrink its bond-buying. The Fed publishes minutes tomorrow of
its April 30 to May 1 policy meeting.  “I don’t see any real change in the QE intentions
tomorrow,” said Thomas di Galoma, senior vice president of
fixed-income rates trading at ED&F Man Capital Markets in  New
York . “There’s no reason for bonds to sell off dramatically.”  U.S.  10-year yields  fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.93 percent as of 4:59 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the 1.75
percent note due in May 2023 added 11/32, or $3.44 per $1,000
face amount, to 98 13/32. The yield touched 1.99 percent earlier
today, the highest level since March 15.  The yield on the 30-year bond dropped five basis points to
3.13 percent.  Trade Numbers  Trading volume rose to $371.4 billion, the highest level
since May 16, according to ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer
broker of  U.S. government debt . The average daily volume for
2013 is $285.6 billion.  Bullard, who votes on the policy-setting  Federal Open
Market Committee  this year, said the panel should continue
buying while “adjusting the rate of purchases appropriately in
view of incoming data” said in  Frankfurt . Dudley called for a
fresh look at the Fed’s eventual retreat from record asset
purchases.  “Because the outlook is uncertain, I cannot be sure which
way -- up or down -- the next change will be,” Dudley said a
speech today in New York.  Fed Bank of  Chicago  President  Charles Evans  said yesterday
in a speech in Chicago the economy has improved “quite a lot”
and he would be amenable to the central bank slowing its asset
purchases if he had confidence job growth would be maintained.  Fed Buys  The Fed is purchasing $85 billion of government and
mortgage debt each month to cap borrowing costs and help the
economy. The U.S. central bank bought $3.3 billion of securities
maturing between August 2020 and February 2023 today, according
to the New York Fed’s website.  Bernanke will testify before the Joint Economic Committee
tomorrow and may provide clues as to whether he sees the Fed
making enough progress toward its goal of substantial
improvement in the labor market to warrant reducing stimulus.  “People are wondering whether and if the chairman will
move as some of the other Fed governors who are looking at
tapering or ending QE,” said Tom Tucci, managing director and
head of Treasury trading in New York at CIBC World Markets Corp.
“He’s been opposing that. The market is buying insurance on the
potential that he could be more hawkish.”  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and similar-maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities was at 2.27
percentage points today, at almost the 2.23 percentage points
reached May 17, the least since Aug. 9, according to Bloomberg
data. The  consumer price index  decreased 0.4 percent, the
biggest decline since December 2008, after falling 0.2 percent
in March, according to Labor Department figures released last
week.  TIPS Sale  The Treasury will sell $13 billion in 10-year TIPS on May
23. It sold an equal amount of the securities on March 21 at a
yield of negative 0.602 percent.  Treasuries due in a decade or more are still cheaper
relative to global peers with comparable maturities, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Yields on Treasuries
was 48 basis points higher than those in an index of other
sovereign debt yesterday. As recently as March 25, the gap was
at 57 basis points, the cheapest level since August 2011.  Investors in Treasuries remained short for the fifth
straight week, betting that the prices of the securities will
drop, according to a survey by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The  proportion  of net shorts was at 16 percentage points in
the week ending yesterday, according to JPMorgan. The figure is
down from 17 percentage points in the previous week.  The percent of outright longs remained at 13 percent, while
outright shorts, or bets the securities will fall in value,
slipped to 29 percent from 30 percent, the survey reported.  Investors raised neutral bets to 58 percent from 57
percent, the survey reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  