-- U.S. LNG Export Potential Gaining Momentum, Goldman Sachs Says
-- B y   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-05-21T06:33:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/u-s-lng-export-potential-gaining-momentum-goldman-sachs-says.html
Liquefied natural gas exports from
the U.S. are looking more likely after the Freeport LNG terminal
got conditional approval from the  Department of Energy ,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said.  Freeport LNG Development LP’s project in Texas was the
second facility to receive approval from the Energy Department
to send gas to countries that don’t have free-trade agreements
with the U.S. The terminal would be able to export 1.4 billion
cubic feet a day. The development, partly owned by
 ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and  Osaka Gas Co. (9532) , still needs
approval from the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission .  “These recent developments support our view that at least
6.8 billion cubic feet a day of liquefaction of capacity will be
built in the U.S.,” Goldman Sachs analysts led by London-based
Samantha Dart said in a report e-mailed today.  The market doesn’t need more than 7.7 billion cubic feet a
day of U.S. LNG for the next decade based on the bank’s demand
forecasts, according to the note. Gas prices at the  Henry Hub  in
Erath, Louisiana, need to stay at or below $5.10 per million
British thermal units to keep U.S. LNG competitive in Europe,
Goldman Sachs said.  The contract for June delivery rose as much as 0.4 percent
to $4.108 per million Btu in electronic trading today on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. Futures rose 0.9 percent to close at
$4.09 yesterday.  “Assuming a normalized oil price of $100 a barrel, U.S.
gas would likely be cheaper than oil-indexed contracted
deliveries in Asia for Henry Hub prices at $6.60 per million
Btu,” Dart said.  Cheniere Energy  The U.S. conditionally approved  Cheniere Energy Inc.’s (LNG) 
Sabine Pass LNG Terminal in Louisiana in May 2011 for exports of
as much as 2.2 billion cubic feet a day. The government has
weighed 20 applications for export terminals in recent months,
which could ship the equivalent of 41 percent of U.S. total
production this year, Energy Department data show.  The U.S. may export 6.5 billion to 8.5 billion cubic feet a
day of gas by 2020, Adam Longson, an analyst at  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
in New York, said in an e-mailed report yesterday.  The Energy Department “will only need to approve two more
projects by early- to mid-2016 in order for U.S. LNG exports to
reach the low end of our estimates,” Longson said.  Henry Hub gas prices will average $3.80 per million Btu
this year, higher than the previous estimate of $3.52, the
Energy Information Administration said May 7 in its monthly
Short-Term Energy Outlook. The average may slump to $3.77 in the
third quarter before climbing to $3.92 during the final three
months of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  