-- U.S. Treasury Takes Extra Steps to Stay Under Federal Debt Limit
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2013-05-21T00:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/u-s-treasury-takes-extra-steps-to-stay-under-federal-debt-limit.html
The Treasury Department announced
further steps to keep funding the government without going over
the nation’s debt limit, amid a stalemate between Congress and
the Obama administration on approving an increase in the ceiling.  The U.S. declared a “debt-issuance suspension period”
under the statute governing the Civil Service Retirement and
Disability Fund. That allows the U.S. to redeem existing
Treasury securities held by the fund as investments, and suspend
new investment. Each month a debt-issuance suspension period
lasts frees up about $6.4 billion, according to the Treasury.  During this period, civil service benefit payments will
continue to be paid and won’t be affected by the action. However,
once all of the so-called extraordinary measures it has at its
disposal to avoid breaching the limit have been exhausted, the
U.S. government will be limited in its ability to make payments
across the government, the Treasury says.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew made the announcement in a
letter to lawmakers. The suspension period will be from May 20
to Aug. 2, he wrote. The Treasury also will suspend additional
investments of amounts credited to Postal Service Retiree Health
Benefits Fund, he wrote.  Lew in a May 17 letter asked Congress to take action as
soon as possible to raise the debt limit and “remove the threat
of default.”  Standard & Poor’s downgraded the U.S. credit rating for the
first time in August 2011, citing the partisan wrangling over
the debt limit.  Downgrade Risk  U.S. policy makers must address debt loads projected to
rise later this decade to avoid a 2013 downgrade, even as the
latest budget projections are “credit positive,” according to
Moody’s Investors Service in a May 20 report.  The Treasury said May 15 it will suspend sales of State and
Local Government Series non-marketable securities until further
notice.  The securities are sold to states and municipalities so
they can comply with federal tax laws and arbitrage rules when
they have money to invest from their issuance of tax-exempt
bonds. The move was the first of several measures the Treasury
can take to comply with the debt ceiling as the Obama
administration and Congress negotiate a longer-term solution.  Lew said May 10 a one-time payment from Fannie Mae confirms
that the nation’s debt ceiling won’t be reached until September.
The mortgage financier seized by U.S. regulators in 2008 said it
will pay the Treasury $59.4 billion after reporting a record
quarterly profit driven by rising home prices and declining
delinquencies.  Earlier this year, Congress voted to suspend the limit
until mid-May to avoid the risk of default and focused instead
on automatic spending cuts, known as sequestration, which it
also failed to avert.  The U.S. budget deficit will shrink this year to $642
billion, the smallest shortfall in five years, a Congressional
Budget Office report said last week. Last year’s shortfall was
$1.1 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  