-- Tuba Player Seeking MBA Warps Fed Job Market Gauge: Economy
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s ,   A k i   I t o   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-05-21T20:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/tuba-player-seeking-mba-warps-fed-s-job-market-measure-economy.html
Tuba player Andrew Schwartz quit the
Manhattan School of Music in 2011 when he saw opportunities
shrinking and orchestras struggling. After a series of low-paid
jobs such as selling stocks by phone, he left the workforce in
August to pursue a master’s degree in business administration.  “The three letters M-B-A are going to be incredibly
valuable to me,” said Schwartz, 26, whose undergraduate degree
is in music. “I’m sure 99.9 percent of HR people throw my
applications in the garbage and the other 0.1 percent laugh at
me having a music degree.”  Schwartz is among millions of Americans whose departure
from the  labor force  since the start of the last recession adds
a layer of complexity to the  Federal Reserve ’s effort to attack
unemployment by linking monetary policy to the jobless  rate .
When people like Schwartz stop looking for work, the government
no longer counts them as unemployed, which lowers the official
jobless rate.  That means the Fed will need to look at other gauges of
labor-market strength because the  unemployment rate  may send
misleading signals of improvement long before payrolls start
showing the substantial gains policy makers are seeking. Fed
officials have pledged to keep the main  interest rate  near zero
as long as unemployment remains above 6.5 percent.  “It complicates policy,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S.
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York  and a former Fed
researcher in  Washington . “The unemployment rate, as they’ve
pointed out, may be the best single number for judging the
health of the labor market, but it’s still imperfect, and those
imperfections have grown because of the participation rate.”  Bernanke Testimony  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may be questioned about
progress on stimulating job growth when he testifies tomorrow on
the U.S. economic outlook before the Joint Economic Committee of
Congress. The central bank’s  Federal Open Market Committee  will
gather next on June 18-19 in Washington.  In the U.K., a report today showed inflation slowed more
than economists forecast in April to a seven-month low, and
producer prices rose the least since 2009 as fuel costs fell.  U.S. stocks rose, sending benchmark indexes to records,
after St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said the central
bank should continue its bond buying to boost growth. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.2 percent to an all-time
closing high of 1669.16 in New York. The index is up 17 percent
for the year. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note
fell from two-month highs to 1.93 percent, down four basis
points.  The unemployment rate dropped to a four-year low of 7.5
percent in April, with the labor force participation rate at
 63.3 percent , the lowest level since May 1979, Labor Department
data show. The participation rate measures those with jobs, or
looking for work, as a percentage of the civilian  U.S.
population  aged 16 and older.  Discouraged Workers  The number of so-called discouraged workers who have given
up on finding work stood at 835,000 in April, near the 861,000
average over the past year, Labor Department data show.
Participation may remain depressed for years, San Francisco Fed
researchers said last week.  Fed officials also say they must see substantial employment
gains before they curb bond buying. Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen 
has said the unemployment rate has limits as a policy guide and
should be supplemented by gauges such as payroll growth.  Economists forecast unemployment will remain above the
Fed’s threshold for at least a year beyond the expiration of
Bernanke’s current term in January. The 59-year-old Fed chairman
suggested in March he feels no personal responsibility to stay
on, saying “I don’t think that I’m the only person in the world
who can manage the exit.”  Bernanke Successor  That job may fall to Yellen, 66, who was named most
frequently as Bernanke’s probable successor in a quarterly poll
conducted May 14 of investors, analysts and traders who are
Bloomberg subscribers. She said in a March 4  speech  that a
decline in unemployment that reflects job-seekers exiting the
workforce may understate “the actual degree of labor-market
slack.”  While Fed research shows that the unemployment rate is the
best indicator of labor market conditions, additional gauges
such as payrolls and job loss and hiring should be taken into
account to gauge what constitutes “substantial improvement” in
the market, she said.  San Francisco Fed President  John Williams  said last week
the speed and magnitude of the participation rate’s drop over
the past couple of years has been “striking.” Researchers are
trying to decipher how much is because of a weak economy, which
Fed policy can influence, and how much is the work of structural
forces such as the retirement of millions in the post-World War
II Baby Boom generation, he told reporters May 16 in  Portland ,
 Oregon .  “A lot of these people” will “want to come back when
jobs are available,” Williams said. “But there’s a lot of
uncertainty about that.”  Policy Link  In December, Fed policy makers for the first time linked
the outlook for the main interest rate to unemployment and
inflation. Abandoning their previous practice of projecting how
long current stimulus levels would continue, policy makers
instead said borrowing costs will stay low “at least as long”
as the jobless rate remains above 6.5 percent and inflation is
projected to be no more than 2.5 percent. Policy makers still
may hold rates low even if unemployment declines below 6.5
percent.  “It’s a big puzzle for the Fed,” said Yelena Shulyatyeva,
a U.S. economist at BNP Paribas SA in New York. “What do they
do if we reach 6.5 percent without significant job growth and
just due to people leaving the labor force? Are they going to
tighten? I don’t think so. They need to tighten the message.”  The FOMC repeated on May 1 that it wants evidence the jobs
outlook “has improved substantially” before it curbs bond
buying that’s expanded the Fed balance sheet to  $3.32 trillion .  Labor Distress  Even as unemployment declines, other gauges show U.S.
workers remain distressed. The U.S. has only regained 6.2
million of the 8.7 million jobs lost after the recession began
in December 2007. More than  4.35 million  Americans have been out
of work for six months or more, accounting for  37.4 percent  of
the jobless. Since the Labor Department began collecting monthly
data in 1948, that share never exceeded 30 percent until after
the 18-month recession ended in June 2009.  A broader gauge of unemployment that includes  marginally
attached  workers -- those available for work who haven’t
searched in a year and those forced to work part-time because of
the sluggish economy -- was  13.9 percent  last month, near the
same level as December 2008, during the longest and deepest U.S.
economic contraction since the Great Depression of the 1930s.  Odd Jobs  Kai Kopp, 37, drives about 20 hours a week for ride-sharing
services in the  San Francisco  Bay Area, along with making the
occasional furniture delivery. He said he’s also washed dishes,
delivered catering and worked as a theater stagehand, landscape
photographer, and videotaped depositions, a role closer to his
work toward a film production degree at San Francisco State
University.  “I’ve never really said no to any job,” said Kopp, who
has three children. “I don’t have a lot of work opportunity and
then the work opportunity I do have, it doesn’t make enough.”  Those who left the workforce may take years to begin
searching for work, San Francisco Fed economists Leila Bengali,
Mary Daly and Rob Valletta said in a May 13 report. Economists
have debated how much a slump in labor force participation stems
from temporary effects such as weak economic growth or from more
lasting forces like an aging work force.  “In the current recovery, it will probably take a few
years before cyclical components put significant upward pressure
on the participation rate because payroll employment is still
well below its pre-recession peak,” the researchers wrote.  Economists Christopher Erceg and Andrew Levin, who are on
leave from the Fed Board as visitors in the research department
at the  International Monetary Fund  in Washington, said in a
paper published last month cyclical factors “account for the
bulk of the post-2007 decline” in the participation rate.”  Schwartz, the tuba player, said that while he was working
in New York, he was “right on the verge of the poverty line.”
Now enrolled at  Georgia State University ’s MBA program, he said
“I can’t wait for it to be over so I can get a job.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  