-- Ukraine Counters Russian Cargo Grab With Bond-Sale Cash: Freight
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2013-05-22T09:38:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/ukraine-counters-russian-cargo-grab-with-bond-sale-cash-freight.html
Ukraine’s biggest transport companies
are selling debt to revamp transport routes and win back cargoes
from  Russia , which has swiped a chunk of business from its
neighbor by investing more in ports and inland links.  State-owned railway monopoly Ukrzaliznytsya sold $500
million of five-year debt at a 9.5 percent yield last week as it
gathers funds for 13.7 billion hryvnia ($1.7 billion) of car and
track upgrades this year. Road operator Ukravtodor may sell
about the same amount, according to Alexander Valchyshen, head
of research at Investment Capital Ukraine in the capital, Kiev.  Goods transit through Ukraine has plunged 39 percent since
2005 as shippers favored Russia over a nation that was once part
of the Silk Road route and a fixture of Soviet-era commerce.
While Russia plans to boost freight by a quarter by 2020,
Ukraine must reverse a decade of under-spending to stem a loss
of competitiveness, according to Maria Mikhaylenko, a principal
at Roland Berger Strategy Consultants in Moscow.  “Russia, as well as other Black Sea nations such as
Georgia and  Romania , have been developing shipping capacity,
causing Ukraine to lose cargo flows,” she said by phone.
“Ukraine must widen narrow rail roads, upgrade stations and
improve access roads to ports.”  The Crimea region of Ukraine, a country of 46 million
people that lies between Russia and the 27-member European
Union, featured on 14th-century Chinese maps as part of the Silk
Road that carried goods between  Asia  and Europe. More recently,
Russia sent half of its goods shipments via Ukraine and the
three Baltic countries at the time of the 1991 Soviet collapse.  Russian Ports  Recently, its fortunes have flagged as Russia used the 2014
Winter Olympics in Sochi as a spur to overhaul infrastructure
and boosted investment in terminals such as  Novorossiysk
Commercial Sea Port. (NMTP)  The Russian government spent 17 billion
rubles ($545 million) on ports last year and private investors
added four times that amount, Aleksandr Davydenko, head of the
Federal Sea and River Transport Agency, said March 1.  Ukraine’s decline continued in the first quarter as transit
cargo volumes dropped 16.6 percent from a year earlier, the
statistics office said May 17.  The country has a long way to go to improve its transport
infrastructure, according to the World Bank, which said in a
2010  report  that the chances of Ukraine becoming a regional
logistics hub in the next five to 10 years appear “almost
nonexistent.” It called logistics services “unreliable.”  Lost Competitiveness  “Although there have been reported investments, people
haven’t really seen improvement on the ground,” Michelle
Karavias, senior energy and infrastructure analyst  at Business
Monitor International , said this week by phone from  London .
“We’re bearish in our outlook for the road sector. Ukraine
definitely lost competitiveness because of this transport
network.”  The government is seeking to stop the rot, building a
container terminal in the Black Sea resort of Odessa, upgrading
the nearby ports of Pivdennyi and Illichivsk and developing its
rail and road systems.  Ukraine will purchase 6,000 rail cars this year for 4.3
billion hryvnia and will spend 8.3 billion hryvnia to electrify
493 kilometers (308 miles) of tracks, Transport Minister
Volodymyr Kozak told reporters May 15. Railroads carry 82
percent of all cargo, Ukrzaliznytsya data show.  Spending Plans  “When Ukrzaliznytsya gets the money, it will have plans
how to spend it because the problems are numerous,” Kozak said
in Kiev. The company also plans to renovate about 1,000
kilometers a year of tracks and replace 300 locomotives,
according to the minister.  The yield on Ukrzaliznytsya’s bonds fell 2 basis points to
9.478 percent as of 12: 30 p.m. in Kiev, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Ukraine needs 40 billion to 50 billion hryvnia a year for
10 years to bring roads to a satisfactory state, Ukravtodor’s
Chief Executive Officer Yevhen Prusenko said May 20.  “We have a program for concession projects of 4,500
kilometers of roads,” he told reporters in Kiev. “We have an
endless amount of projects and the state doesn’t have enough
money.”  The  World Bank  agreed to lend state-owned Ukravtodor $450
million to improve the Kiev-Kharkiv highway and other roads, the
lender said Oct. 11 in an e-mailed statement.  Companies including poultry maker Mironovskiy Hleboproduct
SA and coal and power producer DTEK have joined the government
in issuing Eurobonds and will probably sell more debt in the
coming months, according to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   ‘Extremely Strong’  Ukrainian “corporate bond issuance has been extremely
strong in recent months owing to abundant global liquidity and
ultra-low G4 government rates,” the U.S. bank wrote May 16 in
an e-mailed research note.  Fitch Ratings  assigned a B- grade to Ukrzaliznytsya’s loan-participation notes, six levels short of investment status and
one step below Ukraine’s sovereign rating. If required,
“extraordinary support from the central government would be
forthcoming” to service the debt, it said May 2 in a statement.  Standard & Poor’s  yesterday raised Ukrzaliznytsya’s rating
to B, five steps below investment grade, from B- as proceeds
from the bond sale “enable the company to reduce its reliance
on short-term debt.”  The government sold $1.25 billion of 10-year Eurobonds with
a 7.5 percent yield last month. The yield, which exceeded 8
percent in late April, was 7.302 percent today.  As far as Ukravtodor is concerned, it’s premature to talk
about selling debt, though “additional financing is needed,”
Prusenko said. He added that Ukraine is seeking to boost the
quality of transport services to something more akin to that in
the EU, with which the government is pursuing a free-trade
accord.  “We would like to do everything like in  Europe ,” he said.
“But this is going to take time and resources.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  