-- Ulyukayev Dismisses Monetary Easing to Reverse Russian Slowdown
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-05-21T16:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/ulyukayev-dismisses-monetary-easing-to-reverse-russian-slowdown.html
Russia ’s central bank is holding back
from easing monetary policy to counter a deepening economic
slowdown as weak institutions remain a major drag on growth,
according to First Deputy Chairman Alexey Ulyukayev.  “The situation from the economic point of view has more or
less stabilized,” Ulyukayev said at a conference organized by
VTB Capital in London today. “What for do we have to soften
monetary policy? To support demand for what -- demand for
imported goods?”  The comments signal that months of government calls for
lower  interest rates  haven’t dented the central bank’s
resistance to easing policy even as Russia’s $2 trillion economy
grows at the weakest pace since a 2009 contraction. Ulyukayev
said gross domestic product will probably expand 2.5 percent to
3 percent this year, with monetary stimulus powerless to raise
growth above 5 percent, the medium-term target set by Prime
Minister  Dmitry Medvedev .  Russia kept its main interest rates unchanged in May for an
eighth month after becoming the biggest emerging economy to
raise borrowing costs in 2012 with an increase in September. The
government last week submitted a draft plan to revive the
economy to President  Vladimir Putin , with measures including
lowering bank lending rates and slowing increases in utilities
tariffs.  “The only reason for the monetary agencies to soften
policy is to close the relative gap between actual growth and
potential growth,” Ulyukayev said. “If you have 80 percent use
of industrial capacity and 5.3 percent of unemployment, it means
you have no room.”  Easing Sidestepped  Bank Rossii is declining to join a wave of interest-rate
cuts from  India  to  Poland  as Chairman Sergey Ignatiev prepares
to step down at the end of his third and final term on June 24.
He will be replaced by Putin’s aide  Elvira Nabiullina , a former
economy minister who is helping prepare the stimulus plan.  While central banks can “easily” support growth in the
short term, “the cycle of historically lowest rates is
closing,” Ulyukayev said.  “First the Fed and then other authorities will change
policy,” he said. “The ECB is just buying time for the
governments and business society of the European Union to make
serious, radical, and long-term structural and institutional
decisions.”  ‘Largely Justified’  While some government members, including Economy Minister
Andrei Belousov, have criticized Russia’s restrictive monetary
policy, arguing that the economy may slide into a recession
later this year without stimulus, Putin called the regulator’s
stance “largely justified” last month.  Ulyukayev is among candidates to replace Nabiullina as
Putin’s chief economic aide, the Vedomosti newspaper reported
April 15.  The Economy Ministry has proposed making Bank Rossii, which
is shifting its policy regime to target inflation by 2015,
responsible for economic growth together with the government.
Putin, the government and the central bank agreed not to widen
the monetary authority’s mandate, Medvedev told reporters May 18
in Sochi.  Speaking today, Ulyukayev said a “general understanding is
that there should be some division of power and responsibilities
between the government and the central bank.”  Russia’s economy grew 1.6 percent in the first three months
from a year earlier, decelerating for a fifth consecutive
quarter as corporate investment cooled. The central bank can’t
battle stalled spending with lower rates and wants to use its
policies -- including a shift to inflation targeting -- to build
investor confidence, according to Ulyukayev.  “We are trying to reassure society, the banks, in the
sustainability of policy,” he said. “Why investors do not
invest? It’s a problem of confidence -- general confidence,
confidence in the economic policy, monetary policy, structural
policy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in  London  at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  