-- Hunan Rice Sales Plunge as China Probes Cadmium Contamination
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-21T09:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/hunan-rice-sales-plunge-as-china-probes-cadmium-contamination.html
Sales of rice from  China ’s top
producing province have slumped amid reports that supplies from
Hunan contain traces of cadmium that exceed government limits, a
state-owned agriculture researcher said.  Rice traders in Hunan reported sales dropping by more than
half from a year ago since media reports of the pollutant in
began appearing,  Cngrain.com  said on its website. The
researcher, which is owned by China Grain Reserves Corp., a
custodian of government food reserves, didn’t provide figures
for the drop in sales.  The Nanfang Daily first reported in February that rice from
Hunan sold in southern  Guangdong province  contained excessive
levels of toxic metal and the Guangzhou Food and Drug
Administration reignited concerns with reports on its website
last week. It is a blow to farmers in the region because sales
of indica rice, a long-grain variety consumed in southern China
and used for milling and brewing, were already being hurt by
low-cost imports, Zhang Zhixian, analyst of Cngrain.com, said by
phone from  Zhengzhou  in central China.  Consumers in some areas may become more willing to buy
imported rice, said  Li Qiang , chairman at Shanghai JC
Intelligence Co. China’s quota system for imports will limit any
increase, he said.  Imports may reach 3.25 million metric tons in 2013, little
changed from a record of 3.35 million tons last year, according
to Cngrain.com. China buys rice mainly from low-cost producers
including Vietnam and Pakistan.  Rice Futures  Rice futures in on the Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange, which
trades the same variety of the grain grown in Hunan, have fallen
2.7 percent this year and the September contract closed at 2,627
 yuan  ($428) a ton today.  Hunan’s output of unhusked rice totaled 25 million tons in
2011, or 12.8 percent of the country’s total, according to data
by the Ministry of Agriculture.  The Guangzhou  Food and Drug Administration  said in a  May 16 
report on its website that 44 percent of rice tested in selected
samples had excessive levels of cadmium. Most of the rice that
that failed to meet the standard was from two counties of Hunan,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported today, without citing
anyone.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  