-- Hungary Premier Risks More Isolation With Nazi Comparison
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-05-21T13:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/hungary-premier-risks-more-isolation-with-nazi-comparison.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
risked further isolation in the European Union after comparing a
remark made by  Chancellor Angela Merkel  with Nazi  Germany ’s
military seizure of the country in World War II.  As the two leaders prepare to meet tomorrow in Brussels at
an EU summit, Orban’s comments in a May 17 radio interview have
raised the ire of politicians in Berlin. German Foreign Minister
Guido Westerwelle yesterday called his words a “regrettable
derailment.”  Asked about a remark Merkel made on “sending in the
cavalry” in the context of responding to concern about
 Hungary ’s erosion of democracy, Orban made reference to
Germany’s 1944 incursion into Nazi-allied Hungary to prevent it
from switching sides.  “Let’s be clear, the Germans already sent cavalry to
Hungary, they came in the form of tanks,” Orban said on  state-run MR1 radio . “They should not send any, we ask -- it wasn’t a
good idea, it didn’t work out.”  Merkel’s comments at a May 16 symposium were meant to
moderate criticism of Orban’s government. The German leader had
been asked to respond to comments by the Social Democratic
candidate for chancellor in Germany’s Sept. 22 elections,  Peer Steinbrueck , that Hungary could be expelled from the EU if it
didn’t reform.  “I’d say you don’t always have to send in the cavalry,”
Merkel replied. That reference was a play off a 2009 Steinbrueck
quote about forming a “cavalry” to force Swiss compliance with
international tax standards.  ‘Unspeakable’ Comparisons  The chancellery didn’t comment on Orban’s remarks. The
Hungarian premier was reacting to Steinbrueck raising the
possibility of expelling Hungary from the EU, the Budapest-based
Foreign Ministry said in a statement today.  Merkel, in her reaction, “unequivocally rejected this
possibility and the Hungarian prime minister completely agrees
with the chancellor’s position,” according to the statement.
“The Hungarian government categorically rejects Hungary or its
government being dragged into the German election campaign.”  Still, setting Germany’s role in the EU debate on Hungary
alongside aggression under  Adolf Hitler  met with derision among
German politicians, including Ruprecht Polenz, a top foreign-policy lawmaker in Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union .  Harming Ties  “He’s increasingly burdening the traditionally good
relationship between Germany and Hungary,” Polenz told  Spiegel
Online  yesterday. “That Orban is now making unspeakable Nazi
comparisons that have until now been the domain of Greek
demonstrators speaks of an increasing loss of reality.”  With the help of a two-thirds parliamentary majority won in
2010, Orban has centralized power to an unprecedented degree
since the country’s transition from communism to democracy in
1990, raising concerns about an erosion of checks and balances.  Orban’s lawmakers wrote a new constitution over opposition
protests, ousted the chief justice of the  Supreme Court , set up
a media regulator led by ruling-party appointees and named
allies to independent institutions, including the  Constitutional
Court . In March, Orban’s Fidesz party used an amendment to
override court decisions and limit legal interpretation,
sparking criticism from the EU and U.S.  Until now, the Hungarian leader has faced muted criticism
from Merkel’s government. Orban’s party is allied with her CDU
in the European grouping of conservative parties.  EU Treaties  The chancellor last week reiterated Germany’s support for
the European Commission’s demands for Hungary to comply with
European treaties, though she said the best course of action
with respect to Orban’s changes is engagement.  “We have to do everything to bring our Hungarian friends
onto the right course and not expect that we should exclude
them,” Merkel said. “Then we wouldn’t have any more influence
on them.”  Attila Tibor Nagy, a political analyst at the Meltanyossag
research institute in Budapest, said the Hungarian premier’s
comments appeared to be spontaneous rather than politically
calculated.  “Orban overreacted,” Nagy said by phone today. “Still,
it fits into the government’s strategy of trying to minimize
interference with Orban’s overhaul of the country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  