-- Turkey to Loosen Grip of State Energy Explorer With New Law
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-05-22T09:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/turkish-legislators-debate-oil-law-to-attract-foreign-explorers.html
Turkey , which gets almost all of its
energy from abroad, will debate a bill today that seeks to lure
foreign companies to explore for oil and gas by ending the
preferential treatment of state-run TPAO Turkiye Petrolleri AO.  The draft legislation eases rules for hiring foreign
workers, extends license periods and cuts the top tax on profit
from 55 percent to 40 percent.  Turkey wants to step up exploration after  Israel  and Cyprus
reported gas discoveries in Mediterranean waters in the past
three years. The country’s imports of oil and gas, amounting to
$60 billion in 2012, were the main cause of its $47.5 billion
current-account deficit last year, the world’s third-largest.  The law reflects “Turkey’s impatience to find out as
quickly as possible whether it has serious oil and gas
potential,” said Berfu Aksoy, a petroleum lawyer at Aksoy Law
Office in Ankara. “Major oil companies want to see the
potential for commercial oil and gas before entering the Turkish
market.”  There have been no major energy discoveries in Turkey, a
country crisscrossed by active fault lines that make it more
difficult to find large reserves compared with neighbors like
Iraq and  Iran , according to the Energy Ministry.  Saudi Arabia produces 9 million barrels of oil a day while
Turkey produces 45,000 barrels, although they have an equal
number of operating wells, Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  told
Haberturk television yesterday.  Shale Gas  Just 20 percent of onshore areas and 3 percent of offshore
areas have been explored, and the country’s shale-gas potential
is unknown, the Energy Ministry said.  “We have made an agreement with Shell, which is right now
working in Diyarbakir” in southeastern Turkey on shale gas,
Yildiz told Haberturk. “We are open to proposals to work on
shale gas both from local and foreign investors.”  The proposed law seeks to encourage foreign explorers by
allowing them to compete with TPAO on an equal footing. The bill
no longer defines TPAO as the national company charged with
searching and drilling oil and gas reserves. It also ends the
practice under the existing 1954 law of giving licenses to TPAO
without auctions when terms expire.  Operators also would no longer have to partner with TPAO
for every offshore license, though it is up to the Turkish
Cabinet to decide who gets offshore licenses.  Conflicting Claims  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  has formed partnerships with TPAO to
drill in the Mediterranean this year and Black Sea in 2014,
Deputy Exploration Manager Coskun Namoglu told an oil conference
in Ankara last month.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  will start Black Sea
drilling with TPAO in coming years, according to the government.  Turkey’s exploration in the Mediterranean has been
encouraged by the recent offshore finds by Israel and Cyprus,
nations with which the Turkish government has strained ties.
Relations with Israel remain chilly after it apologized for
killing nine Turks in a raid on a Gaza-bound ship in 2010.  Some of Cyprus’s offshore reserves are disputed by Turkey,
which invaded the northern part of the island in 1974 after a
coup aimed at uniting it with  Greece . Turkey sent an exploration
vessel accompanied by warships and jets to stop Cyprus drilling
for oil and gas in 2011.  Exploration areas declared by Turkey and Greek Cypriots
largely overlap in the south and west of the island, according
to the Turkish energy ministry.  ‘Avoiding Tensions’  “The sustainable policy is to carry gas from Israel or
southern Cyprus via Turkey to Europe,” Yildiz told Haberturk
yesterday. “For cooperation with southern Cyprus, our foremost
condition is that Northern Turkish Cypriot Republic gets its
share from these resources. We believe that energy can be used
for peace, avoiding tensions.”  Yildiz said during a debate on the law in parliament in
March that the government is considering privatizing TPAO, which
holds two-thirds of all licenses and 100 percent of rights to
offshore drilling.  “Let TPAO join the competition,” Yildiz told the oil
conference April 10.  The law “offers terms more in line with international
norms to encourage private sector exploration,” analysts Naz
Masraff, Will Pearson and Elena McGovern at Eurasia Group said
in a note on May 10. “Companies like Petrobras, Statoil, BP and
Chevron, which previously showed interest in the Turkish energy
sector, may revisit their interest.”  National Interest  Turkey imported about 92 percent of the oil it consumed in
2011 and 98 percent of its natural gas, according to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration.  A previous bill aimed at attracting foreign explorers was
vetoed in 2007 by then-president Ahmet Necdet Sezer on the
grounds that it was contrary to the national interest. The
current bill has the support of the ruling Justice and
Development Party and is likely to pass with minimal changes,
the Eurasia Group analysts said.  Joe McClintock, general manager of Canadian explorer
Foinavon Energy Inc., was “deeply disappointed” that proposed
measures to permit tax losses to be carried forward for 10 years
have been cut from the bill. “This is a very high-risk
business, and sometimes long lead times are required to bring
commercial projects to profitability,” he said.  McClintock, whose company is exploring for gas in the
Akcakoca sub-basin of the Black Sea, said he welcomed a
requirement for license-holders to post a 2 percent bond for
onshore programs or 1 percent for offshore programs. It will
“weed out speculators and companies that are either under-capitalized or lack knowledge,” he said.  Masraff at Eurasia Group said the new law, while welcome,
won’t guarantee investment.  “We’ve seen lots of large companies coming in and
exploring, like Exxon and Petrobras,” she said during an
interview in Ankara on May 21. “They’ve all left with nothing,
so the legal change, in and of itself, is not enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  