-- Vietnam Premier Approves Debt Asset Company, Central Bank Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-21T13:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/vietnam-premier-approves-debt-asset-company-central-bank-says.html
Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung has approved a regulation to set up a debt  asset management
company  to address bad loans in the country’s banking system,
central bank Deputy Governor Le Minh Hung said today.  The asset management company will start operations in the
second quarter, the central bank said separately in an e-mailed
statement today. The government missed an earlier target for its
formation at the end of March.  The asset management company is aimed at reviving sluggish
credit extension, which underpinned the slowdown of the nation’s
 growth rate  last year to the lowest since 1999. The reluctance
of banks to lend may result in economic growth of less than 6
percent for a  third straight  year, based on forecasts from the
 International Monetary Fund  and the  World Bank .  “They have to do more on the bank restructuring side,”
said Johanna Chua, head of emerging Asia economics at Citigroup
Inc. in  Hong Kong . “The fastest way to address the problems of
the banks would be a direct capital injection from the
government, but they seem to be resistant to that.”  The asset management company would be wholly state-owned,
with initial charter capital funds provided by the  State Bank  of
 Vietnam , according to the central bank statement. Investors
could bid at auctions on the bad debt, and special bonds would
be issued to lenders in exchange for the non-performing loans,
according to the statement.  Non-performing loans reported by commercial banks stood at
4.51 percent at the end of March, according to the government
this week. That compares with a central bank estimate of 7.8
percent at the end of last year.  Credit grew about 2 percent in the first four months of the
year, the government said last week. Market participants and
credit rating companies estimate bad debt at Vietnamese banks
may be between 10 percent and 20 percent, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  