-- Vietnam Signals Rate Pause as Banking Revamp Approaches
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-22T07:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/vietnam-signals-rate-pause-as-banking-revamp-approaches.html
Vietnam  will find it “difficult” to
cut interest rates further this year, central bank Deputy
Governor Nguyen Dong Tien said, as the nation moves to create an
asset company that would clean up bad debt and revive growth.  “The pressure on inflation still remains and there are
still some factors that will cause  inflation  to quicken toward
the end of the year,” Tien said in an interview in Hanoi
yesterday. “A further rate cut by the central bank is difficult.
There’s a small chance.”  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung has approved the formation
of an asset management company, effective July 9, to acquire
non-performing loans from lenders, according to a statement on
the government website today. Officials are under pressure to
rejuvenate an economy that grew last year at the slowest pace
since 1999, as one of the highest bad-debt levels in Southeast
Asia hurts credit to businesses.  “They’re pausing for now on rates,” said  Edwin Gutierrez ,
a London-based portfolio manager at Aberdeen Asset Management
Plc, which oversees about $12 billion in emerging-market debt
including Vietnamese foreign-currency bonds. “Further rate cuts
wouldn’t really stimulate the economy anyway. The banking
sector’s focus is not on providing credit, it’s on the asset
management company. There’s not much appetite to lend.”  Lenders with bad-debt ratios of 3 percent and above will be
required to sell their non-performing loans to the asset
management company, according to the government statement. The
company will have an initial registered capital of 500 billion
dong ($24 million) and be overseen by the central bank, it said.  Stocks Rise  The Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange’s benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX) 
rose 0.6 percent at the break, heading to its highest close
since April 11. Asia Commercial Bank surged as much as 7.5
percent, the most since Nov. 27, 2009. Joint-Stock Commercial
Bank for Foreign Trade of Vietnam, or Vietcombank, the biggest
listed lender by market capitalization, climbed as much as 1.7
percent and Vietnam Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and
Trade gained as much as 1.6 percent in the morning session.  The reluctance of banks to lend may result in economic
growth of less than 6 percent for a  third straight  year, based
on forecasts from the International Monetary Fund and the World
Bank.  Gross domestic product  expanded 5.03 percent last year.  While the  economy  will continue to face challenges, the
central bank and the government have pursued policies to achieve
growth of 5.5 percent and keep inflation at about 6.5 percent
this year, Tien said.  Rate Cuts  The State Bank of Vietnam cut the refinancing rate to 7
percent from 8 percent effective May 13, while the discount rate
was reduced to 5 percent from 6 percent as it joined policy
makers from Sri Lanka to  Australia (RBATCTR)  in monetary easing this month.
The rate cuts were the eighth since the start of 2012, following
a similar reduction in March.  “The government will be consistent in pursuing its goal of
maintaining macroeconomic stability,” the central bank said in
written answers prepared separately in response to Bloomberg’s
questions. Vietnam plans to cut policy rates by 2 percentage
points annually and the interest-rate cap on dong deposits by
0.5 percentage point each year, it said.  Vietnam will need other “prudent” policy measures to spur
growth, the deputy governor said. He forecast actions to clean
up banks will contain bad debt at less than 5 percent of total
loans at the end of the year, from 7.8 percent in December 2012.  Prime Minister Dung may approve in June a central bank
proposal to raise the caps for foreign investment in local
lenders, as an additional measure to help weak financial
institutions, Tien said.  Special Bonds  Higher foreign-ownership caps in lenders may be allowed on
a case-by-case basis, Tien said. Vietnam now allows each foreign
investor to own as much as 20 percent of a bank, with total non-Vietnamese ownership in each bank currently capped at 30 percent.  The asset management company will be wholly state-owned,
with initial charter capital funds provided by the State Bank of
Vietnam, according to the government statement. Investors can
bid at auctions on the bad debt, and special bonds will be
issued to lenders in exchange for non-performing loans with a
maximum maturity of five-year, it said.  Non-performing loans reported by commercial lenders stood
at 4.51 percent at the end of March, the government said in a
report this week, without giving the central bank’s estimate for
the period. Credit grew about 2 percent in the first four months
of the year, the government said last week.  Market participants and credit rating companies estimate
bad debt may be between 10 percent and 20 percent, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Vietnam Bank for Agriculture & Rural
Development, or Agribank, the country’s largest lender by assets,
had a bad-debt ratio of 6.1 percent as of the end of June 2012,
State Bank of Vietnam Governor Nguyen Van Binh said last August.  Many Difficulties  “Bad debt in the banking system may rise in 2013 as the
economy is still facing many difficulties,” the central bank
said in its written responses. “However, non-performing loans
are still within the central bank’s control.”  About 22.5 trillion dong of bad debt was resolved in 2012
by lenders’ loan-loss provisions, the central bank said, citing
figures reported by commercial banks. In the first three months
this year, about 5.5 trillion dong was resolved. Provisions for
loan losses increased to 68.5 trillion dong as of the end of
March, from 64.2 trillion dong at the end of 2012, it said.  There are no plans to inject cash directly into lenders,
Tien said. Banks’ liquidity is “very good,” and while bad debt
may rise because of economic difficulties, measures to clean up
banks will keep it at acceptable levels, he said.  Still, “one would have to expect some government capital
injection sooner or later,” Gutierrez said. “No one expects
much recovery value on a lot of those loans. I don’t think
foreign banks are beating down the doors to get a piece of the
Vietnamese financial sector. I don’t think it’s that likely that
these guys can raise much money through stake sales.”  The debt asset management company is expected to resolve
about 100 trillion dong of bad debt, Vu Viet Ngoan, chairman of
the National Financial Supervisory Commission, said last week.  “Many foreign investors and banks are showing great
interest in investing in Vietnamese banks,” Tien said. “If we
open up mechanisms for foreign investment, more investors will
want to put money in since they see the potential.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  