-- Vietnam Stocks Climb to 5-Week High on Signs Inflation Slowing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-21T08:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/vietnam-stocks-climb-to-5-week-high-on-signs-inflation-slowing.html
Vietnamese  stocks  advanced the most
in  Asia , with the benchmark index closing at the highest level
in more than five weeks, after a drop in consumer prices in the
two biggest cities signaled inflation may slow nationwide.  The  Ho Chi Minh City  Stock Exchange’s VN Index jumped 1.6
percent to 500.18, the highest close since April 11. Vietnam
Dairy Products Joint-Stock Co., the country’s biggest listed
company by market value, climbed 1.6 percent. Refrigeration
Electrical Engineering Corp., known as REE, rose 5.2 percent as
trading volume more than tripled from the 3-month daily average.
The benchmark gauge’s 50-day volatility, a measure of  price
swings , dropped to the lowest level in three months yesterday.  Consumer prices in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City in May
dropped 0.2 percent and 0.16 percent respectively from the
previous month, financial news website NDHMoney reported
yesterday. The General Statistics Office is due to release its
monthly  consumer price index  this week.  “Inflation keeps cooling in major cities, signaling a
similar trend nationally,” Tu Vu, associate director of
research department at Viet Capital Securities Joint-Stock Co.,
wrote in a note to investors today. “Cooling inflation would
provide room for the central bank to maintain easing policies to
spur economic growth.”  The  State Bank  of Vietnam cut policy interest rates earlier
this month, the eighth reduction since the start of 2012, after
inflation slowed to 6.61 percent in April. The central bank said
May 10 that price growth will remain at 6.5 percent to 7 percent
through 2013, compared with the 8 percent target the authority
set in November.  REE Earnings  Economic growth slowed to 4.89 percent in the first three
months of this year, compared with 5.44 percent in the last
quarter of 2012.  REE was the most-traded stock among the index’s 306
companies today. The Ho Chi Minh City-based company’s earnings
will “easily” surpass its target this year, boosted by
contributions from associated companies, Kien Nguyen, an analyst
at Saigon Securities Inc., said by phone today.  Full-year net income may be 785 billion dong ($37.4
million), compared with the brokerage’s previous forecast of 686
billion dong, Kien said. The company targeted profit of 650
billion dong this year, according to a company filing on the
exchange’s website on March 29.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  