-- VMware Public Cloud Software Challenges Amazon, Microsoft
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-05-21T17:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/vmware-public-cloud-software-challenges-amazon-microsoft.html
VMware Inc. (VMW)  is debuting a service
that lets customers use the Web to access information and
programs stored in its data centers, an effort to challenge
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in cloud computing.  Early testers of the vCloud Hybrid Service include  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Broadcasting and the state of Michigan, VMware Chief
Executive Officer Pat Gelsinger in an interview. The product
will be more widely available in the third quarter, he said.  VMware, the biggest provider of software that lets
computers run multiple operating systems, is expanding in cloud-computing to bolster sales as U.S. customers trim technology 
spending. With the new product, VMware is entering the 
fastest-growing part of the cloud market, according to Gartner 
Inc., which estimates that sales of so-called infrastructure-as-a-service will surge by an average 38 percent annually to 
$30.6 billion by 2017 from $6.17 billion last year.  “Customers are asking for it -- clearly the whole public
cloud service area has been growing and maturing,” Gelsinger
said. While he declined to provide pricing information, he said
VMware’s service will be more expensive than similar offerings
from Amazon, the market leader, and Microsoft.  Gelsinger said VMware’s new offering can command a premium
because it lets users easily move applications between so-called
private clouds, where software and services are run on customers’
own machines, to public ones on VMware’s servers.  Cloud Partners  Microsoft rolled out an infrastructure-as-a-service product 
last month along with a pledge to match Amazon’s prices on certain
offerings. While 71 percent of public-cloud customers said they
use Amazon in a  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  survey, about 20 percent
said they used Microsoft.  VMware will announce partnerships with  Tibco Software Inc. (TIBX) 
as well as Pivotal -- a spinoff of VMware and its parent company
 EMC Corp. (EMC) , according to Gelsinger. Those agreements will let
customers run the applications they purchase from those
companies in VMware’s data centers, he said.  Microsoft will also allow vCloud Hybrid Service customers
to use Microsoft’s e-mail and database software running in the
VMware cloud, Gelsinger said.  VMware is set to announce its new cloud product at an event
today at the company’s headquarters in Palo Alto, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  