-- Vodafone to Keep Verizon Payout Amid Europe Struggles
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-05-21T17:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/vodafone-forecasts-operating-profit-beating-estimates.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  plans to retain a
a 2.1 billion-pound ($3.19 billion) dividend from U.S. venture
 Verizon Wireless  rather than returning it to shareholders as it
reported the first full-year revenue decline since 2005.  Verizon will use the cash -- the third dividend since the
partnership with  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  restarted payments
in 2012 -- to pay for wireless spectrum and fund its business,
the Newbury, England-based company said today. Revenue for the
12 months through March fell 4.2 percent to 44.4 billion pounds.  Verizon Communications, which has said it’s interested in
buying Vodafone’s 45 percent stake in the venture, has increased
pressure on its partner, telling analysts recently that $100
billion is a fair price for Vodafone’s holding. Vodafone is a
“happy holder” of Verizon Wireless, Chief Financial Officer
Andy Halford said at a press conference in London today.  “Today’s results underline the stalemate between Vodafone
and Verizon with regards to Verizon Wireless with both companies
dependent on its free  cash flow ,”  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein, said in a note to investors.  Service sales fell 4.2 percent in the three months ended
March 2013, the third straight quarterly decline as customers in
 Europe  cut their mobile plans. Analysts had estimated a 4.4
percent drop on average, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Cost Cutting  Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao  is cutting jobs and
expenses on the continent to support profit. Vodafone wrote down
7.7 billion pounds on operations in Spain and Italy last fiscal
year as the economies’s outlook worsened and competition rose.
To revive growth, the company is building out a fast fiber
network in Spain and Portugal, and it has announced
infrastructure-sharing deals with rivals in  Germany  and  Spain .  “The hope is that the quarter we’ve had will be the low,”
said Guy Peddy, a London-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.
“Given the outlook for those economies, I would say that the
operating dynamics in those markets are still going to be
challenging.”  Verizon Wireless’s profit contributed 6.4 billion pounds to
Vodafone for the year, an increase of 30.5 percent, highlighting
the unit’s importance as partner Verizon Communications moves
toward a buyout of the stake.  Verizon Dividend  Verizon Wireless said last week that it would pay its
partners a dividend, which is seen as a negotiating tactic for
Verizon Communications as it’s the only way either partner can
get money out of the wireless venture, of $7 billion. Vodafone,
which has returned Verizon dividends to shareholders in the
past, will be paid $3.15 billion next month.  Some of the Verizon Wireless payment will go for frequency
auctions in  India , South  Africa , the Czech Republic and Hungary.
In February, Vodafone paid the most of the U.K. auction winners,
spending 791 million pounds for fourth-generation mobile
spectrum.  Vodafone said operating profit excluding some items may
rise as much 6.9 percent this year as Verizon Wireless grows.
Operating profit excluding some items will be 12 billion pounds
to 12.8 billion pounds in the 12 months ending in March 2014,
the company said. Analysts projected 12 billion pounds,
according to the average of  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Vodafone rose 1.2 percent to 199.90 pence at the close of
trading in  London . The stock has gained 29 percent this year.
Verizon Communications dropped 0.9 percent to $52.27 at 1:47
p.m. in  New York .  Ordinary Dividend  Vodafone increased its ordinary dividend by 7 percent for
the full year, according to the statement.  “The board remains focused on balancing ongoing
shareholder remuneration with the long-term investment needs of
the business, and going forward aims at least to maintain the
ordinary dividend per share at current levels,” the company
said in the statement.  Adjusted operating profit rose 9.3 percent to 12 billion
pounds in the 12 months ending in March 2013, beating the 11.7
billion pounds estimated by analysts on average.  To combat costs, Vodafone has trimmed European operations,
closing stores and saying it may cut almost 2,000 jobs in  Italy ,
Spain and Germany to counter service-revenue declines.  “We see a significant opportunity in unifying network and
IT management across multiple markets, in further centralizing
and standardizing procurement, and in offshoring more business
functions to shared service centers,” Vodafone said in the
statement. The company’s target is to cut European operating
expenses from these and other programs by 300 million pounds in
the 2014 financial year.  Bright Spots  Investors, including Leon Cappaert from KBC Asset
Management in Brussels and Ralph Brook-Fox, a  fund manager  at
Ignis Asset Management, have said they’re ready for a deal to
wind up the nearly 14-year partnership and expect to see the
majority of the proceeds returned to shareholders.  A bright spot for Vodafone has been the performance of its
newer markets in Africa,  Asia  and the  Middle East . The company’s
African venture  Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , South Africa’s largest
wireless operator, said yesterday that full-year profit jumped
23 percent as more customers bought smartphones.  The venture is 65 percent owned by Vodafone and surpassed
the company’s U.K. unit in terms of profit in 2010 and its
Spanish division the following year. Vodacom plans to expand
into as many as three new countries by the end of next year,
Chief Executive Officer Shameel Joosub said in an interview.  “We’ve cracked the African model” Joosub said at the
company’s Johannesburg headquarters. “Our formula is working.
We’re a lot more confident today in terms of accessing new
markets and pursuing those opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  