-- Wal-Mart Among Retailers Quitting Visa, MasterCard Deal
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-05-21T20:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/wal-mart-among-retailers-opting-out-of-visa-mastercard-deal.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX)  are among 19 retailers opting out of a $7.25 billion
antitrust settlement with  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  over
fees charged to merchants to process credit-card transactions.  The proposed settlement would maintain and strengthens an
anticompetitive system that allows Visa and MasterCard to fix
so-called swipe fees for banks, the companies said today.  “It would allow credit card companies and big banks to
perpetuate an unfair and broken system that costs all
consumers,” Mike Cook, senior vice president of finance for
Wal-Mart, said in a statement.  The settlement, estimated to be the largest-ever U.S.
antitrust accord, has drawn criticism from trade associations
and retailers contending that it grants the card companies too
much leeway to raise rates.  Visa, based  Foster City , California, and MasterCard, based
in Purchase, New York, agreed to settle the case to resolve the
legal battle over interchange fees, which are charged to
merchants when customers pay with credit cards.  The settlement received tentative approval from a federal
judge in Brooklyn, New York, in November. A hearing on final
approval is set for Sept. 12.  The  Electronic Payments Coalition , which represents Visa,
MasterCard and banks and credit unions that issue payment cards,
said it is confident that the objection from the companies will
have “no material impact” on final approval.  ‘Tired Arguments’  “These same tired arguments were already raised repeatedly
over the course of the litigation,” said a spokeswoman, Trish Wexler. “Had these arguments had any merit or strength, they
would have been included in the final settlement.”  K. Craig Wildfang, an attorney for plaintiffs in the case,
said the announcement by Wal-Mart and others wasn’t surprising.  “These merchants have been publicly critical of the
settlement, and we always thought that many of them were likely
to opt out,” said Wildfang, of Robins, Kaplan, Miller & Ciresi
LLP. “We remain confident that the vast majority of merchants
in the class will not opt out.”  The  National Retail Federation  said today it will formally
oppose the settlement because it gives the card companies
“legal blessing to continue their abuse of merchants and
consumers indefinitely.”  Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, the world’s largest
retailer, said in a statement in July that it was
“disappointed” in the settlement and would encourage merchants
to reject the deal.  Other companies joining Wal-Mart and Starbucks today
include  Gap Inc. (GPS) ,  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW) , Costco Wholesale Corp. and Nike
Inc. according to the statement.  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 