-- Wallabies Center McCabe May Recover From Injury to Play Lions
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-21T07:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/wallabies-center-mccabe-may-recover-from-injury-to-play-lions.html
Australia  rugby center  Pat McCabe  may
recover from a knee injury for a three-Test series against the
British and Irish Lions, while his ACT Brumbies teammate George Smith is out until July.  McCabe and openside flanker Smith were omitted from the 25-man Wallabies squad named two days ago after getting injured
while playing for the Brumbies the previous day. Scans showed
their knee injuries aren’t as serious as first thought, the
Canberra-based Super Rugby team said.  McCabe, who re-signed with the Australian Rugby Union
through the 2015 World Cup today, will take his rehabilitation
week by week, the Brumbies said in a statement. That gives him a
chance of being among the six players Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans  will add to his roster June 11. The series-opener against
the Lions is June 22.  “It’s a matter of this swelling settling down and then I
can start running and it won’t be much longer,” McCabe told
reporters today. “I’m almost walking normally now.”  Smith, whose 110 Tests for Australia are the second most
for a forward behind  Nathan Sharpe , was diagnosed with a grade-two ligament tear and will miss at least three games before
being reassessed at the end of June, the Brumbies said. That
timetable would likely see him return for the final regular-season match against the Force on July 13.  The 32-year-old had been in line for a return to the
national squad following a 3 1/2-year absence after impressing
during a loan spell with the Brumbies.  “My priority from here is to rest, rehab and ensure my
body is 100 percent leading into the tail end of the Brumbies
season,” Smith said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  