-- Wealthy in U.S. Prioritize Gains Over Safety, BofA Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-05-21T01:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/wealthy-in-u-s-prioritize-gains-over-safety-bofa-says.html
Millionaires have reversed their
priorities in the past year to focus on making money rather than
preserving it as they wait to move their cash into stocks.  About 60 percent of individuals with at least $3 million in
investable assets said asset growth is a higher priority than
preservation, according to an annual survey by  Bank of America
Corp. ’s U.S. Trust unit being released tomorrow. In 2012, 58
percent of respondents said protecting their wealth was more
important than seeking higher returns in riskier investments.  The attitude change hasn’t translated into action by most,
said Keith Banks, president of U.S. Trust. More than half of
those surveyed, or 56 percent, said they hold a large amount of
money in cash accounts. Sixteen percent said they plan to move
the money in the next couple of months.  “People are recognizing the equity market is back,” Banks
said in an interview at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters.
“Their mindset has shifted but they’re not connecting the
dots.”  Affluent investors will shift more cash into equities once
they gain more confidence in the economy and job growth, Banks
said.  Last year, the wealthy pointed to uncertainties about
European debt and the  U.S. presidential election  as reasons for
avoiding stocks, Banks said. While they’ve talked less about
those issues in 2013, some families haven’t invested their cash
after gains in the stock market, he said.  “Now people are saying: ‘I missed it,’” Banks said.  Market Rally  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of stocks returned 31
percent in the 12 months ended May 17. Investors poured money
into bond funds and cash accounts after the 2008 global
financial crisis, when the  S&P 500  dropped 38 percent during the
year.  While U.S. stock mutual funds attracted $21.5 billion in
the three months ended March 31, the most in a quarter since
2004, fixed income continued to lead asset classes, according to
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  Taxable-bond funds saw deposits of $69.1
billion in the first quarter, the Chicago-based researcher said.  Wealthy investors have become less risk averse, Banks said.
About 37 percent this year said pursuing a higher return even
with more risk is a priority, compared with 30 percent in 2012.  Fifty-two percent of those surveyed said they don’t
consider themselves more financially secure today than five
years ago, in part because of a sense that their situation could
change at any time. Eighty-six percent said a long-term buy-and-hold approach is the best investment strategy and about 40
percent said they plan to gradually invest their cash holdings
over 12 to 24 months. The survey didn’t ask respondents to give
a value or percentage of their holdings in cash.  Generation Y  Investors ages 18 to 32, known as Generation Y, were among
the most wariest in terms of equities, survey data show. About
half said investing in the stock market is overrated, compared
with 19 percent of Baby Boomers ages 49 to 67.  The U.S. Trust survey was based on responses from 711 non-U.S. Trust clients over age 18, each of whom said they had $3
million or more in assets not including the value of their
primary residence. About one-third of respondents had $5 million
to $10 million and another third had more than $10 million. It
was conducted online by research firm Phoenix Marketing
International in February and March.  U.S. Trust is part of the global wealth and investment
management unit of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America. It oversees about $332 billion in client balances and
serves those who usually have at least $3 million in investable
assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  