-- West London Residents Oppose Heathrow Expansion in Vote
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-05-21T12:11:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/west-london-residents-oppose-heathrow-expansion-in-vote.html
Residents of two west London boroughs
close to  Heathrow Airport  voted by 71.8 percent to 28.2 percent
against the building of a third runway, the councils said today.  Richmond Upon Thames and Hillingdon councils ran the
referendum, which concluded on May 16, to gauge local opinion
and said 140,516 residents, or almost 41 percent of those
eligible, took part. The leader of Hillingdon Council, Ray
Puddifoot, said the result is a reminder to Prime Minister David Cameron about the strength of feeling in the area.  “The council has always been clear about our opposition to
expansion at Heathrow and this emphatic result shows that the
majority of our residents agree with us,” Puddifoot, a member
of Cameron’s  Conservative Party , said in an  e-mailed statement .
“At the last general election we were promised by  David Cameron 
that there would be no third runway at Heathrow,” he said. “I
believed him, and so did many of the residents of Hillingdon.
The strength of this vote is an indication that they now expect
him to be as good as his word.”  The potential expansion of Heathrow is currently being
reviewed as part of an investigation into U.K. airport capacity
led by  Howard Davies , a former chairman of the Financial
Services Authority. Cameron set up the inquiry, which will delay
a decision on the expansion of Heathrow until after the 2015
general election.  A panel of House of Commons lawmakers said May 10 that
Heathrow should be expanded with the addition of a third and
even a fourth runway, while they rejected London Mayor  Boris Johnson ’s proposal for a new hub airport in the Thames estuary
to the east of the U.K. capital.  Residents in the two London boroughs were also asked about
a proposal for additional flights at Heathrow and voted by 72.8
percent to 27.2 percent against the idea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  