-- Won Rises Most in Three Weeks on Exporter Demand; Bonds Steady
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-05-21T08:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/won-rises-on-exporter-demand-after-yen-rebound-bonds-advance.html
The won rose the most in three weeks
on speculation the currency’s slide to a four-week low prompted
some South Korean exporters to convert overseas proceeds, while
the yen retreated.  Government bonds  were unchanged.  Foreign funds  bought more local equities than they sold for
a third day today, exchange data show, aiding the won. The yen
weakened against its major peers after  Japan ’s Economy Minister
Akira Amari backed away from weekend comments that prompted the
currency to rally as much as 1.2 percent yesterday, the most
since April 26. Rapid yen depreciation is a concern and its
effect on  South Korea  may intensify this quarter, a finance
ministry official said today.  “Exporters sold dollars and investors who betted on a
stronger dollar last week may have retreated a bit from their
positions,” said Son Eun Jeong, an analyst at Woori Futures Co.
in  Seoul . “The yen fell after the economy minister toned down
his earlier message. Investors are closely watching any comments
by senior officials.”  The won rose 0.5 percent to 1,110.74 per dollar in Seoul,
the biggest gain since April 30, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 1,121.08 yesterday, the weakest level
since April 23. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell
39 basis points, or 0.39 percentage point, to 8.57 percent. The
yen fell 0.4 percent to 102.68 per dollar.  Japan’s currency climbed yesterday after Amari said further
weakness may hurt “people’s lives” and it was the government’s
job to minimize that. The minister said today he wouldn’t
comment on where the yen’s decline would end. The yen touched
103.31 on May 17, the weakest level since October, 2008.  Smoothing Operations  The won has fallen 4.2 percent versus the dollar and gained
14 percent against the yen this year. That makes it harder for
South Korean exporters such as Samsung Electronics Co. and
Hyundai Motor Co. to compete against Japanese rivals overseas.  South Korean Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said yesterday
the government should ease the won’s volatility if it
intensifies because of the yen. Sharp currency swings can
trigger smoothing operations by the government, Choi Hee Nam,
director general at the ministry, said in an interview today.
Inflows in the  bond market  may add to currency volatility and
are being monitored, he said.  Overseas funds bought 2.14 trillion won more of South
Korean bonds than they sold in April, the third month of  net
purchases , according to the latest data from the Financial
Supervisory Service.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent government bonds
due March 2018 was unchanged at 2.69 percent, the highest level
since April 17, according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  