-- World Bank’s Kim Says Health Coverage Can End Poverty
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-05-21T20:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/world-bank-s-kim-says-health-coverage-can-end-poverty.html
World Bank President Jim Yong Kim
said universal health insurance coverage in all countries can
help achieve a goal of ending extreme poverty by 2030.  “Every country in the world can improve the performance of
its health system in the three dimensions of universal coverage:
access, quality and affordability,” Kim said in a speech in
Geneva at the World Health Assembly, the annual meeting of the
 World Health Organization ’s top decision-making group. “In all
cases, countries need to tie their plans to tough, relevant
metrics. All of us together must prevent ‘universal coverage’
from ending up as a toothless slogan.”  Kim, a physician by training who took over the institution
in July, set a target last month to cut the proportion of people
in extreme poverty -- defined as living on less than $1.25 a day
-- to less than 3 percent by 2030 from 21 percent in 2010.  Health spending forces about 100 million people into
extreme poverty every year and inflicts severe financial
hardship on another 150 million, Kim said today. He gave Turkey
and  Thailand  as examples of countries that have expanded health
insurance coverage, reducing infant mortality rates and the
numbers of people suffering catastrophic health costs.  Health Priorities  Countries should prioritize preventive health measures such
as vaccines to prevent higher treatment costs in future, and
public health officials could learn from for-profit companies
about providing value-for-money health care, Kim said.  “We have to bring an intensity of focus on delivery as if
we were subject to market forces,” he said in an interview.
“Just because we’re not subject to market forces is not an
excuse not to be as rigorous and intense about figuring out how
to deliver as people are in the private sector.”  The  United Nations General Assembly  adopted a  resolution 
last year on affordable universal health care, urging countries
to develop financing systems that “avoid significant direct
payments at the point of delivery.” Eliminating point-of-service fees will be critical to improving access to health care
for the world’s poor, Kim said today.  “Anyone who has provided health care to poor people knows
that even tiny out-of-pocket charges can drastically reduce
their use of needed services,” he said. “This is both unjust
and unnecessary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  