-- World Forest Body Ends Danzer Contracts on ex-Congo Unit Abuses
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-05-21T14:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/world-forest-body-ends-danzer-contracts-on-ex-congo-unit-abuses.html
The Forest Stewardship Council ended
its contracts with Danzer Group after accusations that the Swiss
wood-processing company’s former subsidiary engaged in human-rights abuses in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo.  The Siforco logging operation previously owned by Danzer
was involved in “unacceptable activities” in May 2011 when
company officials allegedly gave financial and logistical help
to Congolese police and military in an attack on a forest
village, the Bonn, Germany-based council said in a statement on
its website today. The contract termination, known as
“disassociation,” is the most severe sanction the FSC can
impose on a company, it said.  “We respect the FSC decision to suspend the cooperation
for a transitional period,” Danzer Chief Executive Officer
Hans-Joachim Danzer said in a statement on the Baar,
Switzerland-based company’s  website . Danzer and the FSC have
agreed on steps the company will take to resume full membership,
he said.  The FSC provides certification for companies managing
forestry projects that are “environmentally appropriate,
socially beneficial and economically viable,” according to its
website. Danzer has worked with the FSC since 2007, it said. The
disassociation affects Danzer’s subsidiary Industrie Forestiere
de Ouesso, or IFO, which runs the largest FSC-certified forestry
project in the Congo Basin in neighboring Republic of Congo, the
council said.  ‘Substantial Consequences’  The decision “imposes substantial financial consequences
on our company,” Danzer said, according to the FSC statement.
IFO’s concessions in Congo Republic total 1.16 million hectares
(2.9 million acres), according to Danzer.  Siforco officials didn’t know Congolese police intended to
attack the village of Yalisika when they were “forced” to
provide a company vehicle to use as transport, Danzer said in
April. The police went to the village to recover equipment and
material stolen from Siforco, it said.  While in Yalisika, security forces allegedly raped and
injured villagers and destroyed property, according to activist
groups including London-based  Global Witness  and Amsterdam-based
Greenpeace. Siforco provided medical support and compensation
for the victims after the attack, Danzer says.  Danzer sold Siforco to Congo-based Blattner Group in
February, 2012. The group “will not be granted a new Trademark
Licensing Agreement, effectively blocking FSC certification,
until the Danzer Group has performed fully on its obligations
towards the Yalisika community and until independent monitoring
verifies that Siforco is not involved in illegal logging
activities,” the FSC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  