-- WTI Crude Drops a Second Day as U.S. Supplies Gain a Fourth Week
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-05-22T12:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/wti-crude-drops-a-second-day-as-u-s-supplies-gain-a-fourth-week.html
West Texas Intermediate fell for a
second day after industry data showed U.S. inventories rose for
a fourth week, the longest run of gains since February.  China ’s
oil stockpiles climbed for a second month.  Futures slid as much as 0.9 percent in  New York  after a
report from the  American Petroleum Institute  showed crude
stockpiles increased 532,000 barrels last week. Government
figures today are projected to show a 1 million-barrel decline,
according to a Bloomberg News  survey  of analysts. The API also
indicated gains in gasoline and distillate-fuel supplies,
including heating oil and diesel.  “The API numbers were bearish across the board,” said
 Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , who
predicts  Brent crude , the European benchmark, will average $105
a barrel this quarter. “Rising crude oil supplies, falling
refinery utilization and rising gasoline stocks: This is the
main reason why the oil complex is lower today.”  WTI for July delivery fell as much as 84 cents to $95.34 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $95.90 at 1:28 p.m. London time. The volume of all
contracts traded was 21 percent below the 100-day average. June
futures expired yesterday after declining 55 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $96.16, the first drop in five days.  Brent for July settlement decreased as much as 99 cents, or
1 percent, to $102.92 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark grade was at a premium
of $7.63 to WTI. The spread narrowed for a fourth day yesterday
to $7.73 a barrel.  Fuel Supplies  U.S. gasoline stockpiles rose  3 million barrels  last week,
according to the API. The Energy Information Administration
report today may show a decline of 300,000 barrels, according to
the median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Distillate supplies climbed 459,000 barrels, compared with a
forecast 1 million-barrel gain in the survey.  The EIA is scheduled to release its weekly petroleum report
at 10:30 a.m. in  Washington .  “The market wants to see inventory draws and the evidence
that oil is being consumed,” said  Jonathan Barratt , chief
executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity newsletter
in Sydney. “If we do see a stockpile build tonight, I think
we’ll see prices head to the downside,” he said, predicting
that investors may buy contracts at about $92.50 a barrel.  Crude inventories at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for WTI contracts and the biggest U.S. storage hub, advanced
471,000 barrels for a second week of gains, the API data show.  China Stockpiles  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the EIA, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm, for its weekly survey.  China’s crude inventories rose 0.1 percent in April from a
month earlier, China Oil, Gas & Petrochemicals, a newsletter
published by the official Xinhua News agency, reported today.
Stockpiles climbed to 28.7 million metric tons, a three-month
high, according to Bloomberg calculations.  China is the world’s second-largest oil consumer,
accounting for 11 percent of global demand in 2011, according to
 BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy. The U.S. is the
biggest user at 21 percent.  Brent snapped a four-day rising streak yesterday after
failing to breach its 50-day moving average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures have traded higher than this
indicator, about $104.81 a barrel today, the past two days
without settling above it. Sell orders tend to be clustered near
technical-resistance levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  