-- Yankees Invest in Soccer Team Controlled by Manchester City
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-05-21T19:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/yankees-invest-in-n-y-soccer-team-controlled-by-manchester-city.html
The New York Yankees will be an
investor in Major League Soccer’s expansion team in New York,
which will be controlled by Manchester City Football Club.  The league’s 20th team will be called New York City
Football Club and begins play in 2015. The league and team will
continue working to finding a suitable site for a soccer-specific stadium, MLS Commissioner Don Garber, Yankees President
Randy Levine and Manchester City Chief Executive Officer Ferran
Soriano said on a joint conference call with Bloomberg News.  “I couldn’t think of two better partners,” Garber said.
“The sport continues to grow in this country. What better way
for us to lead the effort than to bring together two of the
biggest global brands in sports.”  Bloomberg News first reported in December that Manchester
City, the English Premier League team owned by Abu Dhabi’s
Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, was close to being awarded
an MLS expansion franchise for a record $100 million.  Garber wouldn’t disclose the expansion fee, saying only
it’s a record that “reflects the increasing value.”  Manchester City finished second to Manchester United in the
Premier League this season after winning the season before.  The Yankees and Man City have an existing commercial
relationship through Legends Hospitality, an international
entertainment, hospitality and marketing company that provides
services at the English side’s home, Etihad Stadium.  Yankees’ Stake  Levine said the Yankees would support Man City and the
league in their effort to secure a suitable stadium site. He
declined to comment when asked if the team would or could play
at Yankee Stadium.  “We know how to get things done in New York City,” said
Levine, whose Yankees opened a $1.5 billion stadium in 2009.
“We think the combination will be very, very powerful.”  The Yankees will have a 20-25 percent stake in the soccer
team, according to a person familiar with the transaction who
requested anonymity because terms aren’t public.  Garber last year said the league was “at the finish line”
in negotiations with New York City officials on the league’s
plan to build a 25,000-seat home for a new team based in
Flushing Meadows Corona Park in Queens, east of  Manhattan . The
park already houses Citi Field, home of Major League Baseball’s
New York Mets, and the National Tennis Center, home to the U.S.
Open.  The previous high fee for an MLS expansion franchise was
$40 million for several teams.  Worldwide Reach  Soriano said the agreement with MLS, and the partnership
with the Yankees, allows for international marketing
opportunities.  “On the commercial side, we will do things together,” he
said, declining to be specific. “New York is a great
opportunity.”  The Yankees in 2001 announced a marketing alliance with
Manchester United, which has 20 English championships, bringing
together two of the best-known sporting brands in the world. No
money was exchanged under terms of the agreement, which called
for each team to sell the other’s merchandise. The alliance was
short-lived.  Levine said Yankees owners Hal and Hank Steinbrenner, like
their late father, George, are soccer fans.  “We’re all in,” he said.  No Beckham  Soriano said retired player David Beckham, whose previous
teams included Manchester United, hasn’t been contacted to play
a role with the New York team.  Paul Swangard, managing director of the Warsaw Sports
Marketing Center at the University of  Oregon , said in an e-mail
that the involvement of the 27-time World Series champions is a
signal of MLS’s growth and potential.  “You can choose to ignore it, compete against it or
embrace it,” Swangard said. “The Yankees embracing Man City
signals both the relevance of soccer in the U.S. and the
importance of extending strong brands globally.”  MLS officials have been working for more than three years
to bring a new team to New York, creating a rivalry with the New
York Red Bulls, owned by Austrian energy-drink company Red Bull
GmbH. The Red Bulls, whose roster includes Thierry Henry of
 France  and Tim Cahill of  Australia , plays in a 25,000-seat
stadium in Harrison, New Jersey, about a 20-minute train ride
from Manhattan.  Red Bulls  Red Bulls General Manager Jerome de Bontin said in a
statement that MLS expansion illustrates a growing interest in
soccer.  “Our club’s energy is focused on winning a championship
for the league’s most loyal and passionate fans, many of whom
have steadfastly backed this organization and MLS since its
inception and come from all over the tri-state area,” he said.  Flushing Meadows is bordered by the neighborhood of Corona,
where Mexicans, Ecuadoreans, Chileans and other Latinos help
make up one of New York’s most passionate soccer fan bases.  The Fairness Coalition of Queens, a collection of community
groups, in a statement said it was pleased with the ownership
group’s willingness to consider other sites. “The proposal for
a stadium inside the heart of Flushing Meadows-Corona Park is
deeply flawed and would irrevocably damage a vital community
resource,” the statement said.  NASL Cosmos  The last professional soccer team to play in the city was
the New York Cosmos of the North American Soccer League, who
popularized the game in the U.S. by signing international stars
such as Pele of  Brazil  and Franz Beckenbauer of  Germany . The
Cosmos, started in 1971, played home games in three city venues,
the last one in 1976 at the old Yankee Stadium, before moving to
Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey.  Manchester City has a 10-year naming-rights agreement worth
$453 million with Etihad, Abu Dhabi’s national airline.  Man City will play fellow English Premier League team
Chelsea, owned by Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich, in an
exhibition on May 25 at Yankee Stadium.  New York City Council member Daniel Dromm in a statement
last month said city officials were negotiating to aid a project
that involves an oil billionaire “that helps rule a country
where gays or lesbians is a crime punishable by death.”  “This is outrageous,” said Dromm’s statement, which
included an excerpt from the U.S. State Department Report on
Human Rights Abuses in the United Arab Emirates.  Dromm didn’t immediately return a message left with his
press officer seeking comment on the MLS announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  