-- Yankees Rally to Beat Orioles in 10 Innings for 3rd Straight Win
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-21T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/yankees-rally-to-beat-orioles-in-10-innings-for-3rd-straight-win.html
The New York Yankees defeated the
Baltimore Orioles 6-4 for their third straight victory, tying
the game on Travis Hafner’s ninth-inning home run before winning
it with two runs in the 10th.  The Yankees trailed 4-3 in the ninth inning last night in
Baltimore before Hafner hit New York’s fourth solo home run of
the game, a one-out shot off Orioles reliever Jim Johnson.  Vernon Wells then hit a run-scoring double in the 10th to
put the Yankees ahead, Hafner drove in another run with a single
and Mariano Rivera pitched a scoreless inning to record his 17th
save of the Major League Baseball season.  “We’re resilient,” Wells said in a televised interview.
“We’d rather get leads early and stick to that, but we’re a
team that takes advantage of opportunities. It’s been fun to be
a part of it and we just have to keep doing what we’re doing.”  The Yankees improved to 28-16 and extended their lead atop
the American League East division to 1 1/2 games over the  Boston 
Red Sox, who had a five-game winning streak halted with a 6-4
loss to the Chicago White Sox. Jon Lester lost his first game of
the season for Boston, falling to 6-1.  The Orioles have lost six straight to drop to 23-21.  The Cleveland Indians pushed their winning streak to five
games with a 10-8 win against the Seattle Mariners in 10 innings.  The Atlanta Braves beat the Minnesota Twins 5-1 for their
fourth win in a row, while the Cincinnati Reds topped the New
York Mets 4-3, the Toronto Blue Jays downed the Tampa Bay Rays
7-5 and the Los Angeles Dodgers defeated the Milwaukee Brewers
3-1 as Clayton Kershaw tossed a three-hitter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  