-- Zimbabwe Stock Exchange Plans IPO as Index Rallies 38%
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-05-21T13:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-21/zimbabwe-stock-exchange-plans-ipo-as-index-rallies-38-.html
Zimbabwe ’s stock exchange, whose main
industrial index has jumped 38 percent this year, plans to sell
shares through an initial public offering by the end of 2013,
according to the country’s Securities Exchange Commission.  The market value of shares listed on the bourse may nearly
double to $10 billion from the current $5.4 billion over the
next 12 months as it plans to start automated trading to attract
more investors, Chief Executive Officer Tafadzwa Chinamo said in
an interview in Lusaka, the capital of neighboring  Zambia , where
he spoke at a capital markets conference. An IPO might value the
ZSE at $15 million to $20 million, he said.  Zimbabwe’s plans come as African bourses record some of the
highest growth rates in the world this year. The Ghana Stock
Exchange, which began automated trading in 2009, has seen its
composite index rally a global-best 47 percent. Nigerian and
Kenyan markets are among the top 10 best performers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The ZSE has appointed Imara Holdings Ltd., the Botswana-listed investment bank, and Harare-based Corporate Excellence as
financial advisers for its planned share sale, Chinamo said. The
move is different from a demutualization, which is commonly done
by securities exchanges, because the Zimbabwean government
claimed ownership of the bourse since it was established in its
current form in 1974, he said.  Along with automation, which will see trading done
electronically rather than by hand, holding elections will boost
confidence among investors, Chinamo said. The southern African
nation is due to hold votes this year, ending a five-year power-sharing agreement between Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai ’s
Movement for Democratic Change party and President  Robert Mugabe ’s Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front.  The ZSE Industrials Index, which includes all listed
companies apart from four mining stocks, fell for the first time
in six days,  retreating  0.2 percent to 209.92 by 2:37 p.m. in
Harare, Zimbabwe’s capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  