-- 
‘Alpha Woman’ Rousseff’s Rise to Follow Lula to Brazilian Silver Screen

-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 
2011-06-28T17:15:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/-alpha-woman-rousseff-to-follow-lula-to-brazil-s-silver-screen.html
First there was Lula, the movie. Now
former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s successor and
protégé is getting her shot at the silver screen.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s rise from a student activist who
took up arms against Brazil’s dictatorship to her election last
year as the country’s first female leader will be told in a new
movie based on a biography to be published this month, said
Helder Caldeira, author of the upcoming book.  “I don’t want it to be a biographical film,” Caldeira,
who sold to an independent producer the rights to “The First
Female President” and is now helping write the screenplay, said
in a telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro . “It’s the story
of an alpha woman who rose to power.”  Lula’s record 87 percent approval rating in his final year
of office didn’t prevent a biopic about his rise from poverty to
the apex of power from becoming a box office flop. While “Lula:
The Son of  Brazil ” was chosen last year by the government as
the country’s submission to the Academy Awards for Best Foreign
Language Film, the movie was panned as a propaganda piece by
critics and attracted less than a fifth of the 5 million viewers
its producers had hoped for.  Ticket sales for the movie totaled 7 million reais ($4.43
million), representing 832,320 spectators, according to Filme B,
a Brazilian website that tracks movie sales. By comparison, the
police action film “Elite Squad 2” broke Brazilian box office
records last year with more than 11 million spectators.  Rousseff’s office declined to comment when contacted by
Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  