-- 
Obama, Republicans Focus on Narrower Deal on U.S. Debt as Deadline Nears

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-06-28T17:58:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/-big-boys-focusing-on-narrower-u-s-debt-deal-as-deadline-nears.html
President Barack Obama and
Republicans are narrowing the debate on a deficit-cutting plan
to a reduction of $1 trillion to $2 trillion, though whether
that would settle the issue through the 2012 presidential
election remains in doubt, according to budget and debt experts.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said today that
Obama will continue the deficit talks with Senate Democratic
leaders tomorrow at the White House. Carney declined to say
whether the president has scheduled any more meetings with
Republicans following his discussion yesterday with Senate
minority leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky .  “We continue to consult with congressional leaders,” he
told reporters aboard Air Force One accompanying the president
to  Iowa .  Carney repeated that Obama believes a “significant” deal
is possible even as Republicans and Democrats show little signs
of compromise on entitlements and taxes. Republicans are holding
firm in their demand for spending cuts in excess of what is
needed to raise the government’s credit limit.  The clock is ticking closer to Aug. 2 -- the date when, the
Treasury Department estimates, the U.S. risks a default on its
debt obligations unless Congress increases the $14.3 trillion
debt ceiling.  Size of Agreement  “We’re going to get a small package and pray that it gets
us past the election,” said  Andy Stern , a Democrat and former
president of the  Service Employees International Union  who
served last year on Obama’s bipartisan commission that studied
ways to reduce the federal debt.  After last week’s collapse of a bipartisan effort, led by
Vice President Joe Biden, aimed at brokering a multitrillion-
dollar deal, Obama engaged directly in talks with Republicans
yesterday by meeting for more than an hour with McConnell.
Neither side provided details of the discussion.  “The big boys are doing the negotiating now,” said  Marc
Goldwein , former associate director of the debt commission.  “Even if they wanted a $4 trillion deal, there isn’t time
in a two- to three-week period to write it legislatively,” said
Goldwein, now policy director at the Committee for a Responsible
Federal Budget, a Washington-based organization that examines
fiscal policy. “The important thing is the biggest down payment
as possible with at least a symbolic first step on
entitlements.”  No Short-Term Deal  White House officials and most Republicans are insisting
that they don’t want a short-term agreement, which would force
Congress to revisit the debt-ceiling issue later this year or
next year as the narrative in Washington shifts toward the 2012
presidential election.  Even so, they are underscoring their opposition to
compromise on the biggest drivers of the long-term debt.
Yesterday McConnell declared tax increases “politically
impossible” and said, “If  government spending  was the answer
to an economic slowdown, we’d be in a boom right now.”  Democrats are holding fast on the tax issue, at least for
now. “You have to have revenue on the table, and you have to
make cuts,” House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California
said June 26 on  CNN ’s “State of the Union.” Going into
default, is “very bad for the economy, and I hope their friends
on  Wall Street  will tell them that.”  Democrats also insist that significant revisions to
Medicare and Social Security are off the table.  ‘At an Impasse’  “The two parties really are at an impasse,” said Rudolph G. Penner, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute in  Washington 
and a former director of the  Congressional Budget Office .  “Markets should already be very concerned about where
we’re going even if we do have some temporary resolution of the
debt ceiling,” he said. “I don’t see it being repaired without
a crisis.”  To avoid a short-term increase, the two sides will either
need to find $2 trillion in savings or sign off on a smaller
package that includes some sort of a budget enforcement
mechanism instituting automatic spending cuts and tax increases,
said John Spratt, a former Democratic House member from  South
Carolina  who was chairman of the House Budget Committee and also
served on Obama’s debt commission.  Discretionary Spending Cuts  The backbone of a debt deal includes discretionary spending
cuts, which the  Bipartisan Policy Center  in Washington estimates
could total $600 billion over 10 years, including spending on
foreign aid. Cutting so-called mandatory spending  outside of
health care, such as agricultural subsidies, could save an
additional $100 billion over 10 years, according to estimates by
the center, a policy research group founded by former Senate
majority leaders from both parties.  That’s where the hard part comes in, with the two parties
forced to decide whether and how much to trade on Medicare and
tax increases and Pentagon spending cuts.  Making changes to Medicare, such as asking the wealthy to
pay a higher price for their premiums, is one idea that has been
raised. Democrats have long opposed such a change, arguing it
would undermine popular support for the government-run health
care program for the elderly.  Still, there are signs they may be softening, with
prominent Democrats like Senator Dick Durbin of  Illinois , who
holds the party’s No. 2 position in the chamber, saying the
issue needs to be on the table.  Inflation Calculations  Among the recommendations of Obama’s debt commission was a
change in the way the government calculates the rate of
inflation, resulting in lower cost-of-living increases and other
entitlement benefits. The so-called chained  consumer price
index , an alternative measurement for the Consumer Price Index,
reflects the effect of substitution that consumers make across
categories of goods and items in response to changes in relative
prices. A switch to that method could save about $300 billion
over the next decade, according to an analysis by the Center for
a Responsible Federal Budget.  While such a plan has drawn stiff opposition from House
Democrats, who say it amounts to a benefit cut for current
beneficiaries, it has been on the table both as part of the
Biden talks and among a bipartisan group of senators -- known as
the Gang of Six -- working on a long-term debt plan.  Finally, an area ripe for cutbacks is the Pentagon budget,
said  David Walker , who served as U.S. comptroller general from
1998 to 2008 under Democrat  Bill Clinton  and Republican  George W. Bush .  ‘Huge Waste’  “There’s huge waste in defense,” he said, “and both
sides have targeted some defense cuts.”  In January, Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  proposed a five-
year spending plan with $78 billion of net savings from
canceling some weapons programs, reducing troop numbers and
cutting overhead. Republicans backed Gates’s goal in a budget
plan that passed the House in April.  The most contentious issue of all may be taxes.  As part of his proposed budget for fiscal year 2012
released Feb. 14, Obama proposed $357 billion in revenue-
raisers, which would include ending subsidies to oil and gas
companies -- a proposal that failed last month in the Senate.
Republicans need to “take on some of their sacred cows,”
Carney said yesterday.  The White House would also tax private-equity or hedge fund
managers at higher income-tax rates instead of lower capital-
gains rates, change the depreciation formula on corporate jets
and limit itemized deductions for wealthy taxpayers.  It also proposed repealing a tax benefit for an inventory
accounting practice used by many manufacturers and retailers,
which the CBO estimates would be worth $72 billion by 2016.  Republican Hesitation  Cutting a deal on taxes would involve a break with Grover Norquist, the head of the anti-tax advocacy group Americans for
Tax Reform, who insists that any elimination of tax breaks must
be accompanied by an equal reduction in taxes elsewhere.  “The real problem, from my standpoint, is the Republicans
hesitating to do anything on the revenue side, even if it’s
trying to target tax expenditures,” Walker said.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, may soon
come to the realization that he needs Democrats to get any debt-
ceiling bill through a Democratic-controlled Senate and signed
by a Democratic president, even as the Tea Party caucus
threatens to vote against a debt-ceiling increase unless he
delivers a spending-cut-only accord.  “He’s got to get a majority of the Republican caucus,”
Walker said. “He doesn’t have to get a majority of the Tea
Party caucus.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  