-- 
Madoff Judge Approves Trustees $212 Million Settlement With Feeder Funds

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-06-28T14:46:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/madoff-judge-approves-trustees-212-million-settlement-with-feeder-funds.html
A judge approved a $212 million
settlement between the trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm
and two bankrupt U.S. funds related to the Fairfield Greenwich
Group, the biggest so-called feeder fund in Madoff’s Ponzi
scheme.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  approved the deal
today in bankruptcy court in  Manhattan .  Trustee Irving Picard made changes to the deal after
investors in Fairfield Sentry Ltd., a related fund, objected to
the settlement, which is part of a total $4 billion deal with
funds related to the Fairfield Greenwich Group. He agreed they
could sue fund managers to try to recoup their losses.  Under the agreement with Greenwich Sentry LP and Greenwich
Sentry Partners LP, Picard will drop claims of $212 million
against the funds. The funds in return will reduce their claims
against the Madoff bankruptcy estate and sign over claims they
had made against Fairfield Greenwich Group, according to court
papers.  Greenwich Sentry will cut its claim against the Madoff
estate to $35 million, from more than $140 million, and the
other fund’s claim will drop to about $2 million from
$2.5 million.  Last month, Picard said he would end his effort to collect
$3.8 billion that three offshore Fairfield funds allegedly
withdrew from the Madoff firm in the final six years of the
fraud. The offshore funds agreed to cut their claims on the
Madoff estate.  Fairfield Greenwich Group, founded by  Walter Noel , invested
about $7 billion with Madoff, according to court documents.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-1789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in Manhattan
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 