-- 
Madoff Trustee Serves Summons on Citigroup Feeder Fund Kingate Global

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-06-29T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/madoff-trustee-serves-summons-on-citigroup-feeder-fund-kingate-global.html
A  Citigroup Inc. (C)  affiliate was
served with a summons by the trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm as part of a lawsuit against so-called feeder fund
Kingate Global Fund Ltd., according to a court filing yesterday.  Citi Hedge Fund Services Ltd. of Bermuda was administrator
for the Kingate funds, which put all their money in Madoff’s
Ponzi scheme, according to trustee Irving H. Picard’s lawsuit.
Instead of verifying Madoff’s pricing information, Citi Hedge,
which is named as a defendant in the lawsuit, calculated the
Kingate funds’ value using the con man’s data and reviewed trade
confirmations that were “facially impossible,” he said in a
suit amended this month.  Citi Hedge was bought by Citigroup in 2007, according to
Picard. Kingate Global paid the firm or its predecessor
$4.2 million from 2000 to 2007, and Kingate Euro Fund Ltd. paid
a smaller amount, he said.  In the suit, Picard said the Kingate funds and other
parties should have known of the fraud and should be ordered to
return $975 million in funds they took out of the  Ponzi scheme 
before Madoff’s 2008 bankruptcy. HSBC Bank Bermuda Ltd.,
custodian for the Kingate funds, also was named as a defendant.  The funds are being liquidated in the British Virgin
Islands.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment. HSBC Holdings
Plc, which has asked a judge to dismiss a $9 billion Picard
lawsuit against it and feeder funds, has said it is fighting
Madoff-related claims. William Tacon of Zolfo Cooper, the
liquidator for the Kingate funds, has declined to comment on
Picard’s suit.  The case is Picard v. Ceretti, 09-1161,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  