-- 
Lagarde May Need to Distance Herself From Europe as IMF Leader

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-06-28T23:54:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/lagarde-leading-imf-must-take-distance-from-europe-to-shape-debt-response.html
Christine Lagarde  may seek to
distance herself from the Europeans who helped her win the
International Monetary Fund’s top job amid pressure on the
lender to toughen its response to Greece’s debt crisis.  Lagarde, 55, was chosen yesterday in Washington by the
IMF’s 24-member executive board and will start on July 5. She
was picked over Agustin Carstens, the head of  Mexico ’s central
bank, and will replace  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , who resigned
after his arrest last month on charges including attempted rape.  After spending more than a year trying to contain Greece’s
turmoil as French finance minister, Lagarde must now switch her
allegiance to the 187-nation IMF, which has already lent $110
billion to cash-strapped European nations. As  Greece  struggles
to meet conditions under the bailout, the Washington-based
agency must impose stricter rules in exchange for funding and
force Europe to accept some debt restructuring, said  Eswar Prasad , a former official at the fund.  “A major challenge Lagarde will face at the outset is to
manage the IMF’s involvement with Greece in a way that doesn’t
cause a blow-up, but also doesn’t smack of favored treatment,”
Prasad, a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in
Washington, said in an e-mail. “The IMF is a key player, but
has in some ways been a bystander in assisting Greece,” he
said, and it must now “take a more active role.”  Austerity Steps  European leaders have committed to a new three-year program
for Greece to stave off default, including a voluntary debt
rollover by banks, as long as Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
pushes through a 78 billion-euro ($111 billion) package of
budget cuts as early as today. While the IMF has pledged to
provide a third of the bailouts in the region, it hasn’t
acknowledged the need for a new one, asking Greece to first take
its austerity steps and European nations to agree on their own
funding plan.  Lagarde faces “an uphill struggle” to preserve the IMF’s
impartiality on Greece, said  Jerome Booth , who helps manage
about $47 billion of emerging-market assets as co-founder and
head of research at Ashmore Investment Management in  London .
“If there’s no credible, effective plan to get Greece to a
position of sustainable debt, then there’s no justification for
further lending,” he said.  While dealing with a crisis the IMF calls a threat to
global growth, Lagarde, a former lawyer, must fulfill promises
to boost the institutional clout of emerging economies such as
China. The first woman to head the IMF has also vowed to improve
diversity at an agency reeling from the arrest of Strauss-Kahn,
who has pleaded not guilty.  Closing Ranks  Lagarde owes her job in part to the support of leaders,
including German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy, who closed ranks behind her candidacy early in
the face of calls by emerging markets to end  Europe ’s six-decade
lock on the position.  Merkel and Sarkozy said it was important for a European to
run the fund at a time of crisis, and both have said Greece must
avoid restructuring its debt. Any resolution to the Greek crisis
must avoid involuntary restructuring, Lagarde said in a June 9
interview in Beijing.  Prasad and Booth say that goal is unrealistic. Greek debt,
already at a European record of 142.8 percent of gross domestic
product, is set to rise to 166.1 percent next year, the EU
predicts. The effort to cut a  budget deficit  that is about 10
percent of GDP has helped deepen a third year of recession.  Central Player  Strauss-Kahn, also a former French finance minister, made
the IMF a central player in Europe’s response to the crisis,
said Jean Pisani-Ferry, who runs the Bruegel research institute
in Brussels. He committed the fund to pledge a third of the
money for European bailouts, helped craft Europe’s rescue
mechanism and briefed skeptical German lawmakers.  At the same time, European leaders haven’t heeded the IMF’s
calls to clean up the balance sheets of banks and to make the
rescue fund more flexible, and they have been delaying decisions
on Greece amid divisions on how to get private investors
involved.  Lagarde has pledged she won’t grant Europe any special
favors.  “There is no room for benevolence when tough choices must
be made, and there is no option that does not start with
difficult but necessary adjustments by the Greek authorities,”
she told the IMF board during her June 23 job interview,
according to a statement from Lagarde.  Lagarde “will need to redefine the IMF’s position” and
aim “for a better balance between the fund’s responsibilities
in Europe and in the rest of the world,” said Pisani-Ferry, a
former European Union and French government economic adviser.  Familiar Ground  Lagarde has experience in the role of pathfinder. She is
the first and only female finance chief in the Group of Seven,
and she was the first female chairman of Chicago-based Baker &
McKenzie LLP, the world’s fifth biggest law firm by revenue last
year.  Lagarde was appointed finance minister in June 2007, just
before the onset of the global financial crisis. Her negotiating
abilities helped clinch agreement on the euro area’s sovereign
bailout fund in May 2010, according to a person who was there.  Lagarde’s IMF candidacy was bolstered by an informal
agreement under which an American has always headed the  World
Bank  while a European has led the IMF. Emerging-market officials
such as Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  have called for
an end to that arrangement, saying the heads of the two
institutions should be chosen on the basis of merit.  Winning Support  During a campaign that took her to India and  China , Lagarde
won emerging-market support, promising to boost the clout of
developing nations at the IMF and give more management jobs to
people from those countries. She has also vowed to increase
diversity in terms of gender and academic background.  When she announced her candidacy on May 25, Lagarde vowed
to push for quick implementation of a 2010 agreement that makes
China the third-strongest voice in the organization and gives
more say to nations such as  Brazil  and  South Korea . It also
weakens the influence of advanced European economies, which
pledged to reduce the number of seats they hold at the 24-person
board. She indicated more changes may come.  Lagarde takes over an institution that got its resources
tripled by the Group of 20 and was given a host of new tasks by
the group of developed and emerging economies, including helping
single out which countries’ policies threaten global growth.  Psychological Counseling  Almost two months since Strauss-Kahn’s arrest, which led
the fund to offer psychological counseling to those wanting it,
Lagarde acknowledged that the institution needs to heal, and
vowed to restore morale.  Lagarde said she is aiming for diversity in gender, country
of origin and academic background to fight the “group
thinking” that an internal audit last year said contributed to
missing signs of the 2008 financial crisis.  Women accounted for 45.5 percent of the IMF’s staff and 21.5
percent of it managerial jobs at the end of 2010, according to
the organization’s annual diversity report, which also called
the number of employees from emerging-market countries
“unacceptably small.”  “It’s clear the place has been dominated by male
economists from the U.S. and Europe, and there’s been a real
negative spillover effect from that,” said  Kevin Gallagher , an
associate professor of international relations at  Boston
University . “A woman has the highest moral authority to clean
it up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  