-- 
Lagarde Gets U.S. Support for IMF Managing Director’s Job, Treasury Says

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-06-28T13:23:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/lagarde-gets-u-s-support-for-imf-managing-director-s-job-treasury-says.html
The U.S. supports French Finance
Minister  Christine Lagarde  to become the next head of the
 International Monetary Fund , the Treasury Department said today.  “Minister Lagarde’s exceptional talent and broad
experience will provide invaluable leadership for this
indispensable institution at a critical time for the global
economy,” Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in a
statement released in Washington.  Backed by Europe, the U.S. and several major developing
countries, Lagarde has more than half the votes needed to win
the top job when the IMF board meets later today. The
Washington-based lender will be choosing a new leader to replace
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn , who is facing sexual assault charges in
New York.  Geithner also congratulated Lagarde’s rival, Mexican
central bank chief Agustin Carstens, for a “strong and very
credible candidacy.”  The new leader leader’s tasks will include deciding whether
the IMF is ready to provide further funding for the
international bailout of  Greece .  Brazil plans to announce later today it will support
Lagarde’s bid, said a Brazilian government official who declined
to be named because he’s not authorized to speak publicly on the
matter. Brazil’s support comes after Lagarde agreed to increase
quotas for emerging markets at the IMF.  Russia's Support  Russia is also among the countries endorsing her
candidacy, Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said today.  Lagarde, 55, would be the first female chief of the IMF.
She is the first and only woman finance minister in the Group of
Seven nations, and was the first female chairman of Chicago-
based Baker & McKenzie LLP, the world’s fifth biggest law firm
by revenue last year.  Lagarde was appointed finance minister by French President
Nicolas Sarkozy in June 2007, just before the onset of the
financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in  Washington  at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  