-- 
Thai Opposition Aims to Keep Baht ‘Competitive,’ Suchart Says Before Polls

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-06-28T04:59:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/thai-opposition-will-keep-baht-competitive-economic-chief-suchart-says.html
Thailand ’s main opposition party,
leading in polls ahead of the July 3 election, will seek to keep
the country’s currency “competitive,” said its economic chief,
Suchart Thadathamrongvej.  “The baht has to be competitive,” Suchart, who was
Thailand’s finance minister in 2008, said in an interview at
Pheu Thai’s party headquarters in Bangkok yesterday. Most
studies show “if you have a managed fixed- exchange rate , it’s
better than a flexible exchange rate,” he said.  Pheu Thai, headed by the sister of former Prime Minister
 Thaksin Shinawatra , has the lead in opinion polls ahead of next
month’s election after pledging to raise minimum wages, extend
tax incentives and guarantee rice prices for farmers. Suchart
said the party aims to raise incomes for the lowest-paid workers
and create more domestic demand to reduce the country’s reliance
on exports.  Thailand’s policy makers have already been taking steps to
stem the currency’s appreciation. The country’s foreign-exchange
reserves have increased more than 7 percent to $185.42 billion
this year, according to central bank data, a sign the monetary
authority bought dollars to stem the baht’s climb.  The currency was little changed at 30.95 per dollar at
11:46 a.m. in Bangkok today.  Exports Ease  The baht has added 4.6 percent against the dollar in the
past year, and is down 3.1 percent this year. A stronger
currency makes exports more expensive. Growth in overseas sales,
which account for about two-thirds of the Thai economy, slowed
to 17.6 percent in May.  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy after  Indonesia  removed a
15 percent tax exemption for foreigners on income from domestic
bonds to curb currency gains last year. The baht touched its
strongest level since 1997 in November.  Pheu Thai has pledged to raise the minimum wage to 300 baht
($9.7) per day should it become the government. The daily
minimum wage in Thailand ranges from 159 baht in the northern
Phayao province to 221 baht in the resort island of Phuket,
according to the Labour Protection and Welfare Department’s
website.  “If you start redistributing the money from you to the
poorer part of your family, then you will become richer,”
Suchart said. The party aims to raise the wages within six
months, he said. Abhisit’s Democrat party has promised to raise
wages by 25 percent in two years.  Difficult Plan  Thailand’s Development Research Institute said in a report
yesterday that the Democrats' wage increase is “possible”
while Pheu Thai’s campaign “is more difficult” as it means at
least a 36 percent jump from the current rates. According to its
research, Thailand’s  minimum wage  has risen 2.4 percent per year
on average since 1998. The highest raise was 9.1 percent during
2007-2008.  The nation’s gross domestic product growth could exceed 7
percent on average in the long term during Pheu Thai’s
management, Suchart said. Expansion next year may be “one
percentage point” more than any prediction, he said.  Thai GDP fell 2.3 percent in 2009 amid a global recession,
before climbing 7.8 percent last year. The government’s planning
agency forecasts growth of 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent this year
as global demand slows from the 2010 rebound.  Thaksin was ousted in a 2006 coup and has lived overseas
since fleeing a jail sentence for abuse of power. About 100
people have been killed following disputes over the last
election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  