-- 
Taiwan May Raise Rate as House Prices Surge

-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   A i l i n g   T a n
-- 
2011-06-28T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/taiwan-may-raise-rate-as-house-prices-surge.html
Taiwan  will probably increase
borrowing costs for a fifth straight quarter tomorrow, joining
Asian neighbors in tightening monetary policy this month as the
region’s economic growth boosts price pressures.  The central bank will raise the discount rate on 10-day
loans to banks by 0.125 percentage point to 1.875 percent,
according to all of the 17 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. Policy makers lifted the rate by that amount on four
previous occasions since June 2010, when it was at a record low.  Taiwan would follow nations including  India  and  South Korea 
in boosting rates in June as the island tries to restrain a
surge in  home prices . At 1.75 percent, Taiwan’s benchmark rate
is less than half its level in mid-2008 as inflation last month
accelerated at the fastest pace in more than a year and wages
for government workers are set to rise.  “The policy rate remains below its normal level,” said
Mole Hau, a Hong Kong-based economist at BNP Paribas. “We
expect rate tightening to remain gradual” at 0.125 point per
quarter through 2011, he said.  The central bank is scheduled to release its decision after
a board meeting that starts at 3 p.m. local time in Taipei
tomorrow.  The appreciation of Taiwan’s dollar “is providing some
offset” to higher inflation, Hau said. Officials also are
weighing the threat to growth from interruptions to trade and
tourism tied to  Japan ’s worst earthquake on record.  Currency’s Gain  Taiwan’s dollar has gained more than 10 percent against its
U.S. counterpart in the past year, rising along with most Asian
currencies as the region boosted rates and led the rebound from
the 2009 recession. The local dollar rose 0.2 percent to
NT$28.962 at the close of trade yesterday, according to Taipei
Forex Inc. The benchmark Taiex stock index is down about 5.5
percent this year.  India and South Korea have raised their main  interest rates 
this month to contain rising prices, while China ordered lenders
to set aside more cash as reserves.  Recent reports showed Taiwan’s inflation accelerated to
1.66 percent in May, the fastest pace in 15 months, while the
growth in export orders rose a faster-than-estimated 11.53
percent and growth in industrial production unexpectedly
quickened.  The government forecasts export-fueled economic growth of
5.06 percent this year and a jump in the pace of inflation to
2.10 percent from 0.96 percent in 2010.  Taiwan in April announced plans to increase the monthly
wage for civil servants, public school teachers and military
personnel for the first time in six years to help people cope
with accelerating inflation.  Minimum Wage   President Ma Ying-Jeou, seeking re-election in January,
said last month the minimum wage will be raised again by no less
than the 3 percent increase due to be given to civil servants on
July 1.  The Cabinet in March approved a proposal to impose a 15
percent tax on some residential homes sold within a year of
purchase, and a 10 percent levy on some sold within two years.  Central bank Governor Perng Fai-nan and the policy board
have tightened mortgage lending rules to deter real-estate
speculation.  Still, the average price for existing homes in Taipei
rebounded 4.2 percent to a record NT$548,000 per ping,
equivalent to 36 square feet, in May, after falling for two
consecutive months in March and April, according to Sinyi Realty
Co., the island’s biggest real-estate brokerage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net ;
Ailing Tan in Singapore at 
 atan193@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  