-- 
Taiwan Predicts 29% More Chinese Tourists

-- B y   A d e l a   L i n   a n d   J a n e t   O n g
-- 
2011-06-28T04:04:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/taiwan-predicts-29-more-chinese-tourists.html
Taiwan ’s tourism bureau expects
visitors from  China  to increase about 29 percent this year as
the island allows individual tourists to visit from the mainland
for the first time in more than six decades.  “This is something we have been preparing for a long
time,” Alice Chen, deputy director at the Hotel, Travel and
Training Division at  Taiwan Tourism Bureau , said in an interview
in Taipei yesterday.  The two sides agreed earlier this month to let individual
tourists from Beijing, Shanghai and Xiamen visit from today, the
latest step after opening the island to group tours and direct
flights. As many as 500 tourists will be allowed to visit each
day, pushing arrivals from the mainland to as high as 2.1
million this year from 1.63 million in 2010, Chen estimates.  “Cross-strait tourism economic benefits are more directly
reflected in retail sales and the service industry, unlike trade
agreements which may take longer for the effects to be felt,”
Cheng Cheng-mount, chief economist at Citibank Taiwan Ltd., said
yesterday.  China Airlines Ltd. (2610) , Taiwan’s largest carrier, rose as much
as 1.8 percent.  EVA Airways Corp. (2618) , the second-biggest, advanced
as much as 1.4 percent. Formosa International Hotels Corp.,
island’s biggest listed hotel company, gained as much as 0.5
percent.  Latest Milestone  The move to allow individual visitors is the latest
milestone in efforts to improve ties between the former foes.
The two sides have been ruled separately since Chiang Kai-shek’s
Kuomintang, or Nationalists, fled to the island after being
defeated by  Mao Zedong ’s Communists in 1949.  Taiwan and China have signed 15 agreements since President
Ma Ying-jeou took office in May 2008, pledging to focus on
improving economic links and abandoning his predecessor’s pro-
independence stance.  Ma permitted group visits in mid-2008. Allowing individuals
may take Chinese arrivals to 4 million next year from less than
200,000 in 2008, adding $4.59 billion to gross domestic product
by 2012,  Barclays Capital  estimates.  “A successful cross-strait tourism policy will definitely
add points for Ma as he faces election next year,” Cheng at
Citibank said.  Opposition View  Ma is aiming for re-election in January on a platform of
improved economic links with China. The opposition  Democratic
Progressive Party , which viewed closer China ties as a threat to
Taiwan’s autonomy and sovereignty, accused Ma of selling Taiwan
short with a policy of rapprochement “boxed in a frame set by
China.”  China, which views Taiwan as part of its territory,
overtook  Japan  last year as the island’s largest source of
tourist arrivals with 1.63 million visitors, up 68 percent from
2009.  Independent Chinese tourists may bring revenue of between
NT$9.1 billion ($315 million) to NT$19.5 billion a year, if the
500 visitors spend an average $245.43 and stay for a week to the
maximum 15 days, Chen of the tourism bureau said.  Spending from Chinese visitors, including businessmen,
contributed to 0.72 percent of Taiwan’s GDP last year, Chen said.
Tourism has attracted NT$79.7 billion of investment in hotels
that are scheduled to be completed in two years, she said.  Tourist Index  Taiwan’s Taiex Tourist Index, which tracks businesses
including Taipei-based  Formosa International Hotels Corp. (2707) , the
island’s biggest listed hotel company, gained 27 percent in the
past year. The benchmark Taiex stock index rose 13 percent.  In the first five months of this year, Chinese tourists
alone brought in NT$24.4 billion of foreign exchange, according
to data from the tourism bureau.  One of the must-see attractions for Chinese visitors is the
Taipei 101, the world’s second-tallest skyscraper, owned by
Taipei Financial Center Corp., according to a survey by the
tourism bureau.  Luxury products, including jewelry, watches and bags, sold
at the mall are sought after by Chinese visitors as they cost
about an average 30 percent less in Taiwan, Daphne Lee,
marketing director for Taipei Financial, said in an interview
yesterday.  Mainland visitors accounted for about 12 percent of Taipei
101’s shopping center revenue last year, Lee said. She expects
independent visitors to buy more at the shopping center than
group visitors as they have more time to browse. Tour groups
typically spend about 1.5 hours at the mall, and mainly at the
89th-floor observatory deck, she said.  China, which has more than 1,000 missiles deployed at
locations opposite Taiwan, has threatened to invade if the
island declares formal independence. The world’s second-largest
economy is Taiwan’s biggest trading partner.  The island’s government forecasts economic growth will
moderate to about 5 percent this year from a 24-year high of
10.88 percent in 2010. Officials have raised  interest rates  and
approved property and luxury taxes to curb price pressures,
while increasing wages to help people cope with higher costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net 
Janet Ong at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  