-- 
Taiwan Shares Cut at Morgan Stanley

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-06-28T03:15:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/taiwan-shares-cut-at-morgan-stanley-indonesia-rating-raised.html
Taiwanese stocks were cut to
“underweight” from “equal-weight” at Morgan Stanley, which
cited a deterioration in the market’s earnings outlook. The
brokerage turned more positive on  Indonesia  and the Philippines.  Taiwan’s reliance on “downstream processing technology”
has led to declining gross margins as the industry “matured,”
analysts led by  Jonathan Garner , Morgan Stanley’s chief Asian
and emerging-market strategist, said in a report today. The
market is also trading at a 23 percent premium to the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index, they said.  Technology makes up about half of the island’s benchmark
Taiex Index, which has dropped 5 percent this year, more than
the 3 percent decline in the MSCI index of developing nations.
 Acer Inc. (2353) , the personal computer maker, halved its tablet
forecast for this year on June 15 amid concern a weaker European
economy may damp demand, while  HTC Corp. (2498)  forecast a lower gross
margin this quarter compared with the previous three months.  Annual returns from Taiwan’s stock market lag behind those
of  South Korea  and Indonesia based on “long-run earnings trend
analysis,” the analysts wrote. The market is also “more
expensive than six to 12 months ago and, unlike Korea, above
typical mid-cycle valuations,” they said.  The brokerage raised Indonesia to “equal-weight” from
“underweight” within its emerging markets model portfolio,
saying the quicker per-share earnings growth reflect the “early
phase of economic development and recent successful
macroeconomic stabilization.” The Jakarta Composite Index has
climbed 3.4 percent this year, extending annual gains from 2009
and 2010.  Inflation, Growth  Inflation in Indonesia, the world’s most populous Muslim
country, eased for a fourth month in May, allowing the central
bank to leave its key interest rate on hold since February, as
the rupiah’s 4.3 percent advance this year reduced prices for
imported goods. Growth in 2011 may reach the upper end of the
forecast range of 6 percent to 6.5 percent, the central bank has
said.  Morgan Stanley also raised the  Philippines  to “equal-
weight” from “underweight,” saying the appreciating
Philippine peso benefits the market given the relatively high
weighting of domestic-related stocks. The peso has risen 0.6
percent this year against the  U.S. dollar , according to prices
from inter-dealer broker Tullett Prebon Plc.  The analysts cut  Colombia  to “underweight” from “equal-
weight,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  