-- 
Hispanics Flee Alabama’s Immigration Law

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 
2011-06-28T21:42:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/alabama-law-threatens-tornado-recovery-as-hispanics-flee.html
When Tuscaloosa,  Alabama , begins
rebuilding more than 7,200 homes and businesses leveled by an
April 27 tornado, it may find itself missing a workforce capable
of putting the city together again.  That’s what Ever Duarte, head of the city’s Hispanic soccer
league, said after losing a third of his teams in a week.
Tuscaloosa County’s 6,000-strong Hispanic population --including
roofers, Sheetrockers, concrete pourers, framers, landscapers
and laborers -- is disappearing, he said, before a law cracking
down on illegal immigrants takes effect.  “They’re leaving now, right now,” Duarte, 36, said during
a pause in a pick-up soccer game last week in a neighborhood
gym. “I know people who are packing up tonight. They don’t want
to wait to see what happens. It started last week. Our league
had 12 teams the week before that. Last week, it was eight.”  Governor Robert Bentley signed Alabama’s 72-page measure
June 9, calling it “the strongest immigration bill in the
country.” Alabama became the fifth state to enact sanctions
against undocumented workers, following  Arizona ,  Utah ,  Indiana 
and  Georgia , where a federal judge yesterday blocked part of the
restrictions. Tuscaloosa is getting an early gauge of the law’s
effects in its state.  Trail of Ruin  The tornado roared through Tuscaloosa, killing 43 and
leaving a path of rubble and ruin three-quarters of a mile wide
and six miles (9.6 kilometers) long. The law, which takes effect
in September, threatens to unleash its own havoc.  “Hispanics, documented and undocumented, dominate anything
to do with masonry, concrete, framing, roofing, and
landscaping,” said Bob McNelly, a contractor with Nash-McCraw
Properties, during an interview at a coffee shop near a
destroyed gas station and bank. “There are very few
subcontractors I work with that don’t have a Hispanic
workforce.”  The city of 90,000 imposed a moratorium on major
reconstruction that ends Aug. 8 to enable it to plan its
remaking. The rebuilding, McNelly said, will be harder and more
expensive without them:  “It’s not the pay rate. It’s the fact that they work
harder than anyone. It’s the work ethic.”  High and Dry  Gary Phillips, a former Tuscaloosa City Council member and
president of a contracting firm, Premier Service Company Inc.,
also said he foresees pain for businesses.  “What happens to that large, multistory building going up
at that time and the Sheetrocker is halfway through his thing
and the job is stopped?” Phillips said in an interview at his
lawyer’s office. “All of ‘em are gone. They’re under contract
and what are they going to do?”  What they will do is pay higher wages to other workers, if
they find any with the experience and skills, he said.  Undocumented workers are weighing the risks. Lorenzo
Posado, 28, said he’s torn about leaving, changing his mind
twice in one telephone interview.  “My boys are born here,” he said. “I like Tuscaloosa. A
big part of my life is Tuscaloosa. What I’m seeing happening is
that they put a bad law through the state. It doesn’t make any
sense.”  Some contractors say a  labor shortage  is unnecessary.  “There are plenty of people capable of working, if they’d
just get off their butts and do it,” said Rich Cooper, a
contractor with Bell Construction, in a telephone interview.  Back to Work  The new law will help employ Alabamians, one of its
sponsors, state Senator Scott Beason, a Republican from
Gardendale, said at the June 9 signing.  “This will put thousands of Alabamians back in the
workforce,” he said.  Labor Department statistics say workers are available: In
Alabama, the  unemployment rate  was 9.6 percent in May, down from
10.4 percent in December 2009, and higher than the 9.1 percent
national average.  In the past decade, Hispanics flocked to work in
Tuscaloosa. The congregation at Holy Spirit Catholic Church’s
Spanish-language Mass doubled over eight years to nearly fill
the 1,000-person sanctuary, and the collection tripled, said
Dorothy McDade, who runs an outreach program there.  Like Duarte and his soccer league, she’s seen a recent
drop. “There were some hollow spots out there,” she said, of
the previous day’s Mass.  About 55 miles (88.5 kilometers) southwest of Birmingham,
Tuscaloosa is the home of the  University of Alabama  and its
storied football team, and Nucor Steel Tuscaloosa.  A Daimler AG
Mercedes-Benz plant is nearby.  Coaxing Them Out  The tornado destroyed commercial buildings along one of the
city’s main arterial streets, and leveled homes in rich and poor
neighborhoods, said Councilman Kip Tyner. One of the poorest was
in Tyner’s district, and was where most Hispanics lived, he said
in an interview last week.  He spent days trying to get constituents, including illegal
immigrants, to safety.  “People were afraid to come forward,” he said. “I got
about 40 or 50 to churches.”  Had the immigration law been in effect, Tyner’s actions
would have broken it. As a public official, he will have to help
detain and report suspected illegal immigrants.  Bills expanding immigration-law enforcement were introduced
in 28 state legislative sessions this year, according to a
Bloomberg analysis of measures identified by the  National
Conference of State Legislatures .  Suits and Crimes  They failed in 22 states, including  Florida ,  Colorado  and
Kentucky and Louisiana. The bills were opposed by Chambers of
Commerce and agricultural associations, and have led to federal
legal challenges in Arizona and Georgia. In Georgia, they have
also led to a shortage of farmworkers, according to a survey by
the state Agriculture Department.  Alabama, which according to the Pew Hispanic Center has
about 149,000 Latino residents, went further than most states in
criminalizing assistance to illegal immigrants with the Beason-
Hammon Alabama Taxpayer and Citizen Protection Act.  Hiring, housing, renting to and providing transportation to
them will be crimes. Employers -- including subcontractors and
temporary agencies -- will have to use the federal E-Verify
system to check workers’ legal status. The law also charges
police and other officials, including those in public schools,
with checking residency rights.  When the tornado hit, Holy Spirit’s Hispanic congregants
saw the bright side, said McDade and Lou Ginocchio, a church
volunteer.  “They were saying, ‘So much work, so much work, so much
work,’” said Ginocchio. “And then the law passed.”  Seeking Labor  Since April 27, Tuscaloosa has issued 1,069 business
licenses, of which 81 percent, or 870, were for concerns related
to the storm damage, Linda McKinney, the Revenue Department’s
director, said in a telephone interview. A normal year would
bring no more than 100 in the same time, she said.  McDade said contractors have called looking for workers and
that she hadn’t had anybody to recommend.  “They’re leaving,” she said. “Anybody with family in
another state is going to go.”  Miguel Ramirez has been working in the U.S. without
documents for 12 years, and said he moved to Tuscaloosa for
post-storm construction jobs.  He had been in  New Orleans , rebuilding after  Hurricane
Katrina , he said through an interpreter in a mall parking lot.  When the law takes effect, he said, “Tuscaloosa will feel
it. The talk in our community is that people are packing their
things.”  Ramirez said he’ll leave, too.  “I would work for $100 a day in  Louisiana  rather than $150
a day here,” he said. “In Louisiana, the word there is that
the governor is still grateful for the work we did.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta New York at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 