-- 
Malaysia Sugar Refiner Jumps 31% on Debut

-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-06-28T02:16:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/malaysia-sugar-refiner-jumps-31-on-debut.html
MSM  Malaysia  Holdings Bhd., the
Southeast Asian nation’s biggest sugar refiner, surged on its
 Kuala Lumpur  stock market debut today, countering a regional
trend.  The stock advanced 31 percent to 4.59 ringgit at 9:35 a.m.
local time, with 50.1 million shares traded, making it the
biggest gainer and most active stock on the Malaysian bourse.
The company sold shares to institutional investors at 3.50
ringgit apiece in its initial public offering.  Nine of the 16 companies making debuts in Malaysia this
year have advanced from their offer price, while a majority of
those in Hong Kong have lost value for investors, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Of the 92 IPOs greater than $100 million in
emerging  Asia  to have priced and begun trading this year, 70 are
down, Bloomberg data show.  MSM is “in a sweet spot” as the Southeast Asian nation’s
leading sugar producer, Hoe Lee Leng, an analyst at RHB Research
Institute Sdn., wrote in a report yesterday. “We project MSM to
record a three-year net profit compounded annual growth rate of
13.9 percent, driven by rising domestic selling prices, stable
growth in domestic sugar consumption, increased export volumes
and improving export margins.”  Kuala Lumpur-based MSM, a unit of government-owned Felda
Global Ventures Holdings Sdn., bought its sugar refining
business from Malaysian billionaire  Robert Kuok ’s  PPB Group Bhd. (PEP) 
for 1.22 billion ringgit two years ago. Felda Global is the
commercial arm of the Federal Land Development Authority.  More Listings  This is the first of five Felda units that may be listed,
the Business Times reported on April 4, citing unidentified
people familiar with the matter.  MSM raised 818 million ringgit from the share sale, based
on calculations by Bloomberg News, making it the second-largest
IPO since state oil and gas company Petroliam Nasional Bhd. spun
off its petrochemicals business in a record 12.8 billion-ringgit
offering in November.  Bumi Armada Bhd., an oil and gas services company
controlled by billionaire T. Ananda Krishnan, plans to raise as
much as 2.77 billion ringgit in a planned share sale, two people
with knowledge of the matter said yesterday. The company will
introduce its prospectus on June 30, according to an invitation
sent to the media.  Among the 17 listed companies that raised more than $100
million each through an IPO in  Hong Kong  this year, only two are
trading above their offer prices, including Prada SpA which made
its debut last week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey in Hong Kong at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 