-- 
Taliban Raid on Kabul Hotel Leaves 12 Dead as Troops Battle With Militants

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-06-29T06:48:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/taliban-spokesman-says-50-people-killed-or-wounded-in-kabul-hotel-storming.html
Taliban guerrillas armed with
automatic weapons and explosives stormed the  Hotel Inter-
Continental  in Kabul last night, triggering a five-hour gun
battle with Afghan troops and police that left 12 people dead.  Eight militants entered the hotel compound at about 10 p.m.
and began fighting with guards, Interior Ministry spokesman
Sediq Sediqqi said in a phone interview today in the Afghan
capital. Security forces were sent to the hotel and two
policemen were killed, he said. The city’s police chief, Ayub
Salangi, said 10 civilians, most of them hotel staff, died in
the siege.  Among guests at the hotel were governors and police chiefs
of eight provinces who had gathered in Kabul to discuss plans
for Afghan forces to take a greater role in providing security
as U.S.-led NATO troops wind down their combat role by the end
of 2014. None were hurt in the raid.  A “big group” of Taliban gunmen attacked the hotel, said
Zabihullah Mujahed, a spokesman for the  Taliban movement , who
claimed that 50 people were killed or wounded, among them
foreigners. The attack was timed for a meeting of U.S., Afghan
and Pakistani officials with the intent of killing them, he
said.  Sediqqi said a meeting of diplomats from the three
countries in Kabul yesterday was not held at the hotel. No U.S.
diplomats were hurt, State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said in an e-mailed statement.  Suicide Bomber  The attack began as the Taliban gunmen fanned out inside
the low-rise hotel in search of foreigners, Sediqqi said.
Explosions and gunfire could be heard from behind the police
cordon 200 meters away.  One of the militants wearing a suicide vest blew himself up
in the hotel compound, the spokesman said, while four others
were killed by Afghan forces at different locations in the
building.  NATO helicopters  attacked the remaining three
guerrillas as they fought from the hotel roof, killing them.  Around midnight, police had sealed off the hotel, which
opened in 1969 and has been targeted several times in the 31
years of Afghan warfare that followed the invasion of Soviet
forces. The hotel, built on a hilltop overlooking the city and
set amid residential housing, hasn’t been part of the
Intercontinental chain since the Soviet occupation of
 Afghanistan  in the 1980s.  Sprawling Complex  An explosion could be heard shortly after midnight coming
from the direction of the  hotel , which wasn’t visible from
behind the cordon of police and their vehicles. Afghan National
Police officers shouted at civilians to clear the main road
leading to the white, chevron-shaped building, which sprawls out
over grounds that include an outdoor pool and tennis courts.  Around 1 a.m. the first unit of the Afghan National Army
arrived and entered the hotel to engage with the Taliban. Forty-
five minutes later, a second unit arrived. By about 2:35 a.m.
helicopters were seen overhead.  A U.S. delegation led by Ambassador  Marc Grossman , special
representative for Afghanistan and  Pakistan , had left Kabul
earlier and was en route to  Washington  during the attack, Nuland
said.  The U.S. government had no immediate information about
private American citizens, she said.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  last week announced a reduction
of 33,000 soldiers in Afghanistan by September 2012. Even with
the withdrawals, the U.S. will have roughly 68,000 troops in
Afghanistan. A coalition of 48 other nations, which are making
plans to pull back as well, has more than 40,000 personnel in
Afghanistan.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said Obama was briefed on
the attack as he returned to Washington from an event in  Iowa .  “The  United States  strongly condemns the attack on the
Intercontinental Hotel in Kabul, which once again demonstrates
the terrorists’ complete disregard for human life,” Nuland
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  