-- 
Amalgamated Bank Can Credit-Bid for O’Hare Airport Hotel, Court Rules

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-06-28T17:27:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/amalgamated-bank-can-credit-bid-for-o-hare-airport-hotel-court-rules.html
Amalgamated Bank can bid for the
InterContinental Hotel at O’Hare International Airport near
 Chicago  using the amount it is owed by bankrupt owner River Road
Hotel Partners LLC, a federal appeals court ruled. River Road
may appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, its lawyer said.  The three-judge panel in Chicago today affirmed a ruling by
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Bruce Black that denied River Road’s
motion to prevent its largest creditor, Amalgamated, from making
a so-called credit-bid at an auction for the assets.  “Because the debtors’ proposed auctions would deny secured
lenders the ability to credit bid, they lack a crucial check
against undervaluation,” the judges said in a filing in the  7th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals . The ruling also applied to the
debtors’ proposed sale of a Radisson Hotel at Los Angeles
International Airport.  A different appeals court last year denied a credit-bid in
the Chapter 11 case of the owners of the Philadelphia Inquirer
newspaper. The contrary rulings may mean a hearing by the U.S.
 Supreme Court .  “The debtors are considering whether to seek a petition
for cert to the Supreme Court,” David Neff, a lawyer for River
Road, said in a telephone interview.  Black is scheduled to hold a hearing tomorrow on whether to
approve a Chapter 11 plan for River Road proposed by Amalgamated
Bank. The bank would take control of the O’Hare assets and sell
them under the plan. River Road wasn’t allowed to submit its own
plan until after the appeal was decided.  2009 Filing  River Road filed for Chapter 11 creditor protection in 2009
after failing to negotiate new loan terms with secured lenders.
Last June, River Road asked Black to approve procedures for
auctions of the assets.  The motion included a request to deny New York-based
Amalgamated’s proposal to credit-bid for the properties. After a
trial, the judge rejected the motion, saying that River Road
hadn’t shown “cause” why Amalgamated should be prevented from
credit-bidding. River Road appealed.  Och-Ziff Real Estate Acquisitions made an offer of $42
million that would be the so-called stalking-horse bid at an
O’Hare auction. The bid represented only 26 percent of
Amalgamated’s pre-Chapter 11 claim of more than $160 million,
the bank said. Amalgamated, the agent for loans to River Road
from itself and from U.S. Bank NA, then filed its own Chapter 11
plan.  3rd Circuit Ruling  River Road based its appeal on a ruling in March 2010 from
the  3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals  in the Chapter 11 case of
the owners of the  Philadelphia Inquirer . The judges said
bankruptcy law doesn’t entitle secured creditors to bid what
they are owed instead of cash at a public auction.  Black said in his decision on River Road in October that he
agreed with a dissenting opinion rather than the majority’s in
the 3rd Circuit ruling. Seventh Circuit Judge Richard Cudahy
said in today’s decision he also agreed with the dissenting
opinion in the Philadelphia case.  If Black had been asked to approve River Road’s own Chapter
11 plan over the dissenting votes of its lender, he would have
been required to use the so-called cramdown procedure of the
 bankruptcy code . The 7th Circuit decision splits from rulings by
the Courts of Appeal in Philadelphia and in  New Orleans  that a
plan can be crammed down even if lenders are not allowed to bid
at auction using secured debt rather than cash.  September 2008 Opening  The secured lenders eventually won control of Philadelphia
Newspapers LLC with a cash bid at an auction.  The Intercontinental Hotel Chicago O’Hare, a 556-room hotel
located 14 miles (23 kilometers) west of downtown Chicago,
opened in September 2008, days before  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ)  filed for bankruptcy. The ensuing economic recession had a
“devastating impact” on the hotel industry, River Road said in
its Chapter 11 filing.  The appeal is River Road Hotel Partners v. Amalgamated
Bank, 10-3597, 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Chicago). The
bankruptcy case is In re River Road Hotel Partners LLC,
09-30029,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  