-- 
AMD Former CEO Hector Ruiz Starts Company, Touts Deal Experience

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-06-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/amd-former-ceo-hector-ruiz-starts-company-touts-deal-experience.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ’s former
Chief Executive Officer  Hector Ruiz  has opened a consulting
company, aiming to win business by touting his experience in
leading strategy and transactions while at the chipmaker.  Ruiz founded Bull Ventures LLC with Bharath Rangarajan,
another former AMD executive, in  San Francisco , according to the
firm’s  website . Neither responded to requests for an interview.
Ruiz resigned in November 2009 as chairman of Globalfoundries
Inc., a chip manufacturer created from the spinoff of factories
from AMD through an investment from the government of  Abu Dhabi .  The company is Ruiz’s return to business following his
association with the Galleon Group LLC insider-trading case. A
witness for the prosecution of Raj Rajaratnam, co-founder of
Galleon, said that Ruiz was a source of information on
transactions by AMD that were then used as the basis of insider
trades. Ruiz hasn’t been charged with any crime.  The Globalfoundries spinoff was one transaction that Anil Kumar, a former director at McKinsey & Co. who testified against
Rajaratnam, said Ruiz provided information on. Rajaratnam was
found guilty May 11 of all 14 counts against him.  Bull Ventures aims to provide advice to companies who want
to “grow from good to great,” according to the website. The
company says it helps corporate management teams develop and
execute “industry changing strategies.”  Under Ruiz, AMD made headway against  Intel Corp. (INTC)  in the
market for personal-computer processors, helping the company’s
stock almost triple to a high of $42.10 in 2006. By the time
Ruiz stepped down as CEO in 2008, AMD had lost most of the PC
market share it gained, and its stock had fallen to less than
$6.  Drew Prairie, a spokesman for Sunnyvale, California-based
AMD, declined to comment. Globalfoundries doesn’t comment on
former employees, said Travis Bullard, a spokesman for the
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  