-- 
American Apparel Said to Be in Talks to Replace Directors

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-06-28T20:09:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/american-apparel-said-to-be-in-discussions-to-replace-a-third-of-its-board.html
American Apparel Inc. (APP) , the clothing
chain that raised cash earlier this year to avoid a shortfall,
is in talks to replace two of its six board members, according
to three people involved in the discussions.  The group of investors that bought $14.9 million of stock
in a private placement in April is part of the negotiations,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the talks
are private. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Dov Charney
will remain on the board, the people said. The changes may be
announced this week.  The investors, led by CoolBrands International Inc. co-
founder Michael Serruya and private-equity firm Delavaco
Capital, may purchase about $8 million of additional shares in
the coming weeks, two of the people said. The group received the
right to buy 27.4 million more shares at 90 cents each in April.  Peter Schey , an American Apparel spokesman, didn’t respond
to e-mail and telephone messages seeking comment.  American Apparel, which operates more than 250 stores, had
an $86.3 million loss last year and amended loan agreements to
avoid breaching debt covenants. Charney, the company’s largest
shareholder, said much of the losses and falling sales were due
to the costs and productivity declines related to replacing
2,500 workers after immigration violations in 2009.  American Apparel gained 6 cents, or 7 percent, to 92 cents
at 4 p.m. in NYSE Amex trading. The Los Angeles-based company’s
shares have tumbled 94 percent from a closing high of $15.80 on
Dec. 11, 2007.  June Sales  The company’s sales have improved this month as revenue
from stores open at least a year increased, the people said. So-
called same-store sales may be little changed or decline less
than 1 percent this quarter, one of the people said. Sales by
that measure sank 13 percent in 2010 and 8 percent in the first
three months of this year.  Shareholders re-elected board members Robert Greene, a
 management consultant , and Allan Mayer, a partner at public
relations firm 42 West LLC, at the company’s annual meeting on
June 21.  Mark Samson, a manager director at restructuring firm
Getzler Henrich & Associates LLC; Mark Thornton, a management
consultant, and Adrian Kowalewski, American Apparel’s former
chief financial officer and current head of corporate strategy,
fill out the current board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net  