-- 
Anschutz’s AEG Cuts Municipal Bond Request for Los Angeles Stadium Project

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i ,   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   S h i v a u n e   F i e l d
-- 
2011-06-28T20:20:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/anschutz-s-aeg-cuts-municipal-bond-request-for-los-angeles-stadium-project.html
AEG Worldwide, responding to  Los
Angeles  officials, cut the amount of municipal bonds it wants
the city to issue to build a convention center addition and make
way for a proposed $1 billion football stadium.  AEG, the Los Angeles-based owner of the Staples Center
arena, will ask the city to issue bonds in “the high $200
millions” instead of the $350 million first sought, Chief
Executive Officer Tim Leiweke said at a town hall meeting
yesterday. AEG would pay for and control two adjacent parking
garages it previously wanted the city to finance.  “This city has done a pretty good job of making it clear -
- there will be no cost to the city of these bonds,” Leiweke
said.  The entertainment company, controlled by Denver billionaire
Philip Anschutz, wants to attract at least one National Football
League team to the second most-populous U.S. city, which lost
the Raiders after the 1994 season. The company seeks to tear
down part of the existing convention center to make room for the
stadium, and build an addition nearby. Leiweke said for the
first time AEG is prepared to pay for half of a new team.  The original $350 million bond proposal, intended to
finance the parking structures and convention center addition,
was projected to cost Los Angeles about $25 million in annual
debt service, Miguel Santana, the city’s administrative officer,
said in June 17 letter to Councilman Bill Rosendahl.  AEG is willing to sign contracts with the city to guarantee
interest and principal payments on the reduced amount of
municipal debt, Leiweke said.  Los Angeles taxpayers are still footing a $14 million
annual bill on a 1985 convention center expansion that was
supposed to be self-sufficient, according to Santana’s letter to
the councilman.  ‘Quality’ Guarantee  “One of the keys to this is the quality of the
guarantee,” said Greg Nelson, a retired aide to former
councilman Joel Wachs, who negotiated the Staples Center deal.  Anschutz built and operates L.A. Live. The  hotel, condo
and entertainment complex is adjacent to the proposed stadium
site and convention center, and next to Staples Center, where
the Lakers basketball team plays.  Last month, he repurchased a stake in the hotel and condo
portion from San Francisco-based fund manager MacFarlane
Partners, resulting in a loss for investors including the
California State Teachers’ Retirement System, according to
Ricardo Duran, a Calstrs spokesman.  A panel of five council members has been holding hearings
on the AEG proposal, with the next scheduled for June 30. AEG,
based in Los Angeles, has given the city a July 31 deadline to
approve the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Shivaune Field in Los Angeles at 
 sfield99@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  