-- 
Asian Currencies Gain, led by Won, as Greek Concerns Ease on Roll-Over

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-06-28T08:34:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/asian-currencies-gain-led-by-won-as-greek-concerns-ease-on-roll-over.html
Asian currencies advanced, led by
Malaysia’s ringgit and  South Korea ’s won, on optimism Greece’s
creditors will agree to extend the nation’s debt maturities.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional stocks gained
before Greek lawmakers vote tomorrow on budget cuts and asset
sales needed to get future financing. France is working on a
plan to roll over 70 percent of Greece’s debt, President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said yesterday. Taiwan will raise borrowing costs this
week and South Korean inflation accelerated in June, according
to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Euro-zone officials will try to ring-fence the Greece
problem,” said Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-exchange
research at Malayan Banking Bhd. in  Singapore . “If there’s no
contagion in the region’s banking system, there’s room for Asian
currencies to regain their appreciation path.”  The won rose 0.2 percent to 1,083.55 per dollar as of the 3
p.m. close in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The ringgit strengthened 0.4 percent to 3.0470, the  Taiwan
dollar  advanced 0.2 percent to NT$28.962 and the Philippines
peso added 0.1 percent to 43.575.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  called on lawmakers
yesterday to obey their “patriotic conscience” and back
tougher austerity measures. Failure to pass Papandreou’s
proposed 78 billion euros ($112 billion) of cuts and asset sales
may lead to the euro area’s first sovereign default.  Taiwan Rate Rise  Taiwan will lift its benchmark interest rate by 12.5 basis
points to 1.875 percent on June 30, according to all 17
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. South Korean inflation will
reach 4.3 percent this month, compared with 4.1 percent in May,
according to a Bloomberg poll before data due July 1. Indonesian
consumer prices will ease for a fifth month in June, according
to a separate Bloomberg survey before a report due July 1.  The won snapped a three-day decline after the nation’s
current-account surplus widened to a seven-month high. The
surplus was $2.26 billion in May, compared with a revised $1.28
billion in April, the  Bank of Korea  said today.  “Expectations that Greek creditors are probably headed
toward a rollover agreement are boosting stocks and the
currency,” said Ha Jun Woo, a currency dealer at Daegu Bank in
Seoul. “The current account, which had a surplus, also supports
the won.”  Thailand’s baht dropped to its weakest level in five months
after overseas investors reduced holdings of the nation’s
equities ahead of elections slated for July 3. The currency
dropped 0.3 percent to 30.97 per dollar.  Thai Election Concern  Global funds sold $980 million more Thai stocks than they
bought this month through yesterday, exchange data show, on
speculation the poll may spark instability. The Thai vote will
pit Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva’s Democrat party against
the Pheu Thai party led by Yingluck Shinawatra, sister of
fugitive former leader  Thaksin Shinawatra .  “The election is a big uncertain factor for  Thailand  at
this moment and investors may want to lighten their positions,”
said Tohru Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research
Institute Inc. in  Tokyo . “The baht may remain under a weakening
bias.”  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah and Singapore’s dollar were
little changed at 8,623 per dollar and S$1.2413, respectively.
 China ’s yuan advanced 0.11 percent to 6.4698.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  