-- 
Asia Stocks Advance as Won Strengthens; Crude Oil Erases Gain

-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 
2011-06-28T05:48:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/asian-stocks-advance-as-commodities-rebound-from-five-month-low-won-gains.html
Asian stocks rose, paced by banks
and mining shares, and the won strengthened for the first time
in four days after  South Korea ’s current-account surplus widened.
Metals and grains climbed, while oil erased earlier gains.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 0.2 percent as of 2:39
p.m. in  Tokyo . Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures were little
changed, while Treasuries rebounded from the steepest loss in
two weeks. Zinc and nickel increased 0.3 percent each in  London .
Corn and wheat snapped a four-day drop. Crude was little changed
near a four-month low after earlier jumping as much as 0.9
percent in New York. The won rose 0.3 percent versus the dollar.
The euro slid 0.1 percent to $1.4275, erasing earlier gains.  Asian equities are still set for the steepest monthly loss
in more than a year, and commodities are bound for their biggest
quarterly slump since 2008 on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will
worsen and the global recovery is slowing.  Germany  welcomed
proposals from French lenders on voluntary participation in a
rollover of debt by Greece, where lawmakers will vote on budget
cuts needed to avoid default tomorrow. U.S. data today may show
 home prices  fell, while  consumer confidence  improved.  “A number of markets, not only equities but also
commodities, are oversold,” Jason Schenker, Austin, Texas-based
president of Prestige Economics LLC, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “There’s a lot to be optimistic about
even if U.S. growth isn’t at ‘potential’ levels.”  About five shares advanced for every four that declined on
MSCI’s Asia Pacific Index, which has dropped 3.9 percent this
month. That will be its worst monthly performance since May 2010,
when the gauge sank 9.8 percent.  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock
Average jumped 0.6 percent and Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
rose 0.2 percent.  Banks, Mining Shares  Financial companies were the biggest contributors to gains
on the regional index, with  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  rising 1.9
percent. A gauge of banks, insurers and developers on the MSCI
Asia Pacific has dropped 5.9 percent this year, sending
valuations down to 11.4 times estimated profit this month, the
lowest level since October 2008. Raw-material suppliers tracked
the rebound in commodities, with  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM)  rallying
1.4 percent and PetroChina Co. gaining 1.4 percent.  The GSCI index of commodities has dropped 11 percent since
March 31, which will be its largest quarterly loss since the
period ended December 2008. Wheat and crude oil are among the
worst performers this quarter. The gauge was little changed
today after sliding yesterday to a five-month low.  Silver for immediate delivery climbed 0.4 percent to
$33.7194 an ounce, halting a four-day, 7.6 percent slump.
December-delivery corn rose 0.7 percent to $6.31 a bushel, also
snapping a four-day drop, while wheat futures gained 0.7 percent.  Crude for August delivery was little changed at $90.56 a
barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Futures fell 0.6
percent to $90.61, the lowest settlement since Feb. 18.  Won, Euro  South Korea’s won climbed to at 1,083.05 per dollar after
the Bank of Korea said the nation’s current-account surplus
widened to $2.26 billion in May, compared with a revised $1.28
billion in April. The surplus in June will likely be at a
similar level, central bank director Yang Jae Ryong said.  “Expectations that Greek creditors are probably headed
toward a rollover agreement are boosting stocks and the
currency,” said Ha Jun Woo, currency dealer at Daegu Bank in
 Seoul . “The current account, which had a surplus, also supports
the won.”  The euro earlier climbed to $1.438, after gaining 0.7
percent yesterday. Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  called
on lawmakers to obey their “patriotic conscience” and back
tougher austerity measures, as they began to debate a five-year
budget plan yesterday.  Greek Debt  France  proposed a target of rolling over 70 percent of
 Greece ’s debt. Half the debt held by banks and insurers maturing
in the next three years would be swapped for new 30-year bonds.
The redemptions from another 20 percent would be invested in a
special purpose vehicle that would serve as collateral, two
people familiar with the plan said.  “The initial reaction is fairly positive” for the euro,
said Grant Turley, a senior currency strategist at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Sydney. “French banks are
arguably the largest private sector holders of Greece debt.”  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six major trading partners, slid as much as 0.3 percent.
Treasuries rose, sending 10-year yields down two basis points to
2.91 percent.  S&P/Case-Shiller’s index of property values in 20 cities
fell 4 percent from April last year, the biggest drop since
November 2009, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Separate data may show an index of
consumer confidence climbed to 61 in June after reaching a six-
month low of 60.80 in May.  ‘Sustainable’ Rebound  The  S&P 500  climbed 0.9 percent yesterday, snapping three-
day, 2.1 percent loss.  Nike Inc. (NKE)  jumped more than 4 percent in
extended trading after the world’s largest sporting-goods
company reported fourth-quarter profit that surpassed analysts’
estimates as sales climbed in  North America .  “We see the current rebound in the U.S. as sustainable,”
said Andrew Shipley, a strategist at Singapore-based Komodo
Capital Management. “Economic growth is poised to accelerate
going forward. It’s a benign backdrop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  