-- 
Austin Council Vote May Block Texas Bid for $25 Million Formula One Return

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 
2011-06-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/austin-council-vote-may-block-texas-bid-for-25-million-formula-one-return.html
Austin’s City Council may throw a
wrench into plans to use $25 million in  Texas  tax dollars to
bring a Formula One race to the state’s capital, in a meeting
tomorrow.  “If the City Council decides not to endorse this, there’s
no way the comptroller can move the funds because the city is
required to be a partner,” former Travis County tax collector
Bill Aleshire, who sued to block the subsidy, said yesterday by
telephone. Local approval is needed for the project to proceed,
said Allen Spelce, a spokesman for Comptroller Susan Combs.  Texas investors including Clear Channel Communications Inc.
co-founder B.J. “Red” McCombs are building a 3.4-mile (5.5-
kilometer) track to bring Formula One racing back to the U.S.
Critics including Senator Dan Patrick, a Houston Republican,
have questioned the subsidy as the state cuts costs to close a
two-year deficit estimated to be at least $15 billion.  The Austin council last week delayed voting on the plan
that commits state funds to the car races each year for a
decade. Aleshire sued Combs June 22, saying she illegally
promoted the subsidy in a May letter to organizers because a
race date hasn’t been set, Austin’s council hasn’t backed the
plan and economic estimates are incomplete.  ‘Followed the Law’  Combs “has followed the law as it is laid out in statute
and administrative rules,” Spelce said by e-mail. The process
is similar to that used to provide  Major Events Trust Fund  money
to support the  National Football League ’s Super Bowl in Dallas,
the  National Basketball Association ’s All-Star game and the NCAA
men’s basketball Final Four tournament, he said by telephone.  Matt Curtis, a city spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to telephone calls seeking comment. Jennifer Gregorcyk, a
spokeswoman for the track organizing committee, didn’t have an
immediate comment.  With 20 million Texans within 250 miles of Austin and a
growing Formula One fan base in  Mexico , the race will be
successful, Steve Sexton, president of track developer Circuit
of the Americas LLC, said in a May interview. Formula One’s last
U.S. race was run in Indianapolis in 2007.  Each race in Austin is projected to generate enough  tax
revenue  to recoup the state subsidy, Spelce said in May. Aides
to Combs have estimated each race will spur $300 million of
spending. The first race is tentatively set for next June.  Construction of the $242 million track, which has begun, is
projected to add 1,300 temporary jobs and pump $400 million into
the economy. The venue will seat 120,000 fans.  The state  trust-fund  money would go to London-based Formula
One Management Ltd., Sexton said. Formula One, owned by London-
based CVC Capital Partners Ltd., a private-equity firm, is run
by  Bernie Ecclestone , the chief executive officer of the series.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Darrell Preston in  Dallas  at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  