-- 
Australia Appoints Former Test Wicketkeeper Steve Rixon as Fielding Coach

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-06-28T02:41:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/australia-appoints-former-test-wicketkeeper-steve-rixon-as-fielding-coach.html
Cricket  Australia  hired former
wicketkeeper Steve Rixon as the national team’s fielding coach.  Rixon, who played 13 Tests and six one-day matches in the
late 1970s and 1980s, will join Australia on its tours of Sri
Lanka and  South Africa , the Melbourne-based governing body said.  Rixon, 57, follows bowling coach Craig McDermott and
batting mentor Justin Langer in being appointed to the national
coaching setup. Australia, under new captain  Michael Clarke , is
scheduled to tour Sri Lanka in July and August before visiting
South Africa in October and November.  “The group of coaches we now have in place has a great
blend of coaching expertise and cricket experience to benefit
this developing Australian side,”  Michael Brown , Cricket
Australia’s acting chief executive officer, said in a statement.
“Steve has an important role to play as we move forward.”  Following his appointment as captain in March, Clarke said
Australia needed to “go back to basics” after slipping from
first to fifth in the International Cricket Council’s Test
 rankings  and relinquishing its World Cup title this year.  Rixon was previously head coach of Australia’s New South
Wales state team,  New Zealand  and English county Surrey. For the
past two seasons, he assisted Stephen Fleming in guiding the
Chennai Super Kings to back-to-back Indian Premier League titles
and also helped the team win the 2010 Champions League Twenty20.  “Fielding skills play such an important role in the modern
game and often proves the difference between winning and
losing,” Rixon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  