-- 
UBS Can Sue MBIA Over Restructuring, N.Y. Highest Court Says

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-06-28T20:40:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/banks-can-sue-mbia-under-debtor-law-new-york-s-highest-appeals-court-says.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
about a dozen other banks won reinstatement of a lawsuit against
MBIA Inc. challenging the 2009 restructuring of its insurance
unit that guaranteed toxic debt.  The state Court of Appeals in Albany,  New York ’s highest
court, announced its decision today, overturning a lower-court
ruling.  A state appellate court in January dismissed the suit by
the banks, which claimed the bond insurer’s restructuring was
intended to defraud policyholders. The banks claim the
restructuring was a “fraudulent conveyance” that left MBIA
undercapitalized and possibly unable to pay future claims.  The Court of Appeals decision turned on whether approval of
the split by the state Insurance Department superintendent
precluded the bank policyholders’ claims.  “We hold that the superintendent’s approval of such
restructuring pursuant to its authority under the Insurance Law
does not bar the policyholders from bringing these claims,”
Judge Carmen Beauchamp Ciparick wrote for the majority.  The decision restored the banks’ claims of fraudulent
conveyance, breach of contract and abuse of the corporate form.
The court agreed with the lower court that a claim for unjust
enrichment should be dismissed.  “We are disappointed by the court’s decision, but as it is
strictly a procedural ruling it does not address the merits of
the case, and we remain confident that we will ultimately
prevail,” Willard Hill, MBIA’s chief marketing and
communications officer, said in an e-mailed statement.  MBIA Falls  MBIA Inc. (MBI) , based in Armonk, New York, reached its lowest
since July, dropping as much as 7.3 percent. The shares fell
40 cents, or 4.9 percent, to $7.77 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  Meanwhile, the cost to protect against a default by MBIA
jumped to the highest since July after the decision.  “This is a significant victory,” Robert Giuffra Jr., lead
counsel for the banks and a partner at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP
in New York, said in an interview. “The position MBIA was
proposing was one that basically would have resulted in a
massive increase in the power of administrative agencies in New
York state government and less power for courts.”  The banks said in court filings that the split transferred
$5 billion in cash and securities out of MBIA’s primary
operating unit, MBIA Insurance Corp., to another entity, now
known as National Public Finance Guarantee Corp.  MBIA’s Stance  The insurer argued that the restructuring was done to help
unfreeze the public finance markets during the financial crisis
and was approved by state regulators after an extensive review
that found MBIA Insurance would remain solvent and have
sufficient resources to meet claims, according to a brief filed
in April with the  Albany  court.  Five-year swaps on MBIA today climbed 1.75 percentage
points to 24.3 percent upfront, as of 4:20 p.m. in New York,
according to London-based data provider CMA. That means the cost
to protect against a default on $10 million of MBIA obligations
rose $175,000 to $2.43 million initially, in addition to
$500,000 a year.  Swaps on the insurance unit at the heart of the lawsuit
fell on speculation that the split will be overturned. Contracts
on MBIA Insurance Corp. dropped 1.7 percentage points to
33.33 percent upfront, CMA prices show.  A separate lawsuit is pending against the Insurance
Department and MBIA in New York state  Supreme Court  under the
state’s Article 78 statute, which asks the court to review a
state administrative decision.  The banks suing also include French banks BNP Paribas and
 Societe Generale  and a unit of Belgian bank  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , the
recipient of 7 billion euros ($10 billion) in Belgian government
rescue funds.  The case is ABN Amro Bank NV v. MBIA Inc., 601475-2009, New
York state Supreme Court, New York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York
at   sharrington6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 