-- 
Banks May Soften Blow of Jumbo Loan Limits

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-06-28T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/banks-appetite-for-jumbos-may-soften-blow-of-new-loan-limits.html
Jon and Jenny Clyman are eager to
buy a new home near better schools in  New York ’s Westchester
County before Oct. 1, when new limits on government-backed
mortgages could force them into a more expensive jumbo loan.  “I look at it like a deadline because right now I can get
more house for my money,” said Jon Clyman, a 37-year-old real
estate broker whose wife is a controller at a bank. “I’m
seizing the opportunity while it exists.”  The Peekskill, New York, couple may not need to rush. While
jumbo mortgages used to buy pricier homes carry higher interest
rates and require bigger down payments, the blow may be softened
by banks seeking to expand their lending to affluent customers.  As competition picks up, lenders including  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  are easing credit
requirements and narrowing the gap on rates compared with
government-backed loans. With deposits costing near zero and
demand for commercial loans weak, banks and  credit unions  see an
opportunity in high-end borrowers who haven’t suffered as badly
as other Americans as foreclosures mount and unemployment hovers
above 9 percent.  “We have shrunk our balance sheet over the last several
years, not on purpose, but because we weren’t going to compete
with the government,” said Monte Redman, who next month becomes
chief executive officer of  Astoria Financial Corp. (AF) , a Lake
Success, New York-based bank with $18 billion in assets that
specializes in jumbo and apartment-building loans. “There are a
lot more community banks like us that are going to be there to
take up the slack.”  Fannie, Freddie Loans  The new limits, which will vary by locale, apply to loans
backed by government-controlled Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , the
two largest mortgage-finance companies in the country, and the
 Federal Housing Administration . Together, they currently buy or
guarantee about 90 percent of all mortgages. Starting in
October, the maximum eligible loan will fall to $625,500 from
$729,750.  Congress, seeking to resuscitate home sales as credit
markets cratered in 2008, temporarily expanded the top loan
amounts for U.S.-backing in the priciest residential areas,
including New York,  San Francisco , the Florida Keys and
 Washington . The cap for most of the country remained at
$417,000. The Obama administration wants lawmakers to allow the
expanded caps to be reset as an interim step in its efforts to
cut the mortgage market’s dependence on government support.  “The argument to lower the limits is a lot stronger today
than it was a year or two ago,” said Thomas Lawler, a former
Fannie Mae economist who is now a Leesburg, Virginia-based
housing consultant. “Jumbo loans aren’t that much more
expensive than conforming loans today and the availability is
greater.”  Small Loan Share  Another reason for optimism is that only a small percentage
of loans may be affected by the changes.  About 5 percent, or $30 billion, of loans bought or
guaranteed by  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac last year wouldn’t have
qualified under the new, reduced caps, according to a March
report by the  Federal Housing Finance Agency . At the FHA, the
amount would have been about 6 percent, or $14.2 billion, the
Department of Housing and Urban Development said May 26.  Most affected by the cuts will be markets in  California ,
Puerto Rico, the New York metropolitan area and Washington and
its suburbs.  The  biggest decline  is set for Monterey County, California,
where the cap will drop by $246,750 to $483,000. The smallest
will be in Weld County,  Colorado , where the limit will fall $500
to $417,000. In  New York City  and Washington, the largest
qualifying loan will be $625,500, down $104,250.  Some Risk  Banks have the capital to own more jumbo mortgages, and
some see an opportunity to bundle the loans into securities for
sale to investors, so the impact of the new caps probably will
be modest, said Cristian DeRitis, director of consumer credit
analytics for Moody’s Analytics in West Chester Pennsylvania.  “But there is a downside risk because we’re forecasting
here,” he said. “There is a possibility that banks don’t have
the appetite and  interest rates  ratchet up quickly. And that
could be disruptive to the market.”  Bank of America is considering dropping its down-payment
requirement to as low as 15 percent for certain jumbo customers,
from 20 percent, said Vijay Lala, product executive for first
mortgages at the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank’s home-
loan unit. The company, the nation’s largest bank by assets, is
“absolutely looking to put more on our balance sheet for the
right customers,” he said.  Packaging Loans  Citigroup sees high-quality jumbo mortgages as “an
important relationship product for our branch customers,” and
as holdings that represent a good use of capital under pending
international rules, according to Sanjiv Das, who runs the
mortgage business for the New York-based bank.  Some companies are eager to get the market for packaging
jumbo loans into bonds going again. After losses on mortgage
securitizations fueled the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression, $534 million of home loans have been combined
into bonds without government backing since mid-2008, down from
a record of $1.2 trillion in both 2005 and 2006.  “We’d love to get 1 or 2 percent” of the more than $100
billion in estimated annual loan supply that would emerge if
government limits eventually drop to $417,000 everywhere, said
Randy Robertson, who is leading an effort by New York-based
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest money manager, to acquire
jumbo mortgages through a $1 billion fund.  Originations Fall  Private prime-jumbo mortgage originations, including
refinancings, fell to $87 billion last year from a record $650
billion in 2003, according to newsletter  Inside Mortgage
Finance . They represented 7.7 percent, or $25 billion, of
mortgages in the first quarter, while expanded-limit government
loans were an additional 8 percent. Private prime-jumbos
accounted for 18 percent of loans in 2005.  Rates for 30-year fixed private jumbo mortgages are 0.56
percentage point higher than typical loans, down from as much as
1.8 percentage points in 2009, according to data from North Palm
Beach, Florida-based Bankrate.com. The difference averaged 0.26
percentage point in the five years through 2006. The average
jumbo rate is 5 percent.  The spread on adjustable-rate mortgages, which averaged
0.16 percentage point through 2006, is even narrower because
banks prefer ARMs to match their floating-rate liabilities. For
loans that begin adjusting after five years, the gap has closed
to 0.36 percentage point from more than 1 percentage point in
2008. The rate on the jumbo ARMs averages 3.34 percent.  Bigger Down Payments  “We love the jumbo market,” said Christopher Potter, a
vice president at GuardHill Financial Corp., a New York-based
mortgage brokerage. “The larger the loan size, the better the
deal. It’s the same amount of work to do a $100,000 loan versus
a $1 million loan.”  For high-end buyers, being shut out of FHA loans will mean
losing the ability to put down as little as 3.5 percent, an
option that requires paying insurance fees of 1 percent upfront
and 1.15 percent a year.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans now offer expanded-limit
borrowers the ability to put down as little as 10 percent with
lower financing costs, if they take out a second loan or private
mortgage insurance, according to Luke Hayden, president of the
mortgage unit at Mount Laurel, New Jersey-based PHH Corp.  New Wells Guidelines   Wells Fargo, the nation’s largest home lender, introduced
national guidelines in May for mortgages from $417,000 to
$750,000, a range that now covers jumbos in some areas and may
apply to them in others when the caps change, said Brad Blackwell, an executive vice president in its home-loan unit.  The bank is permitting down payments as low as 10 percent
in many markets, he said, compared with at least 20 percent for
loans of up to $1 million from most banks. The San Francisco-
based bank is generally requiring borrowers to hold liquid
assets equal to 10 percent to 20 percent of their loans, down
from 20 percent to 40 percent at the peak of the credit crisis.
Wells’s credit score minimum has fallen to 700 from 740, he
said.  “While you’re still seeing some downward pressure on  home
prices , it’s our feeling that most of the declines are over,”
Blackwell said. “The second factor is while the economy is
recovering slowly, it is recovering.”  Borrowers may also face more “friction” while their
applications await approval, as private mortgage buyers
scrutinize lenders’ files more closely, said Hayden, whose unit
is the country’s fifth-largest home lender. Second appraisals
will become more common, he said.  Opposition From Realtors  Obstacles also remain for self-employed borrowers and high-
earners dependent on bonuses, who now must thoroughly document
their pay and its reliability, lenders say. Consumers also face
down-payment requirements of 25 percent to 30 percent or more in
markets most at risk for further price declines. Citigroup seeks
additional cushions in places including Florida, Michigan and
 Nevada , according to Das, its mortgage chief.  The National Association of Realtors is fighting the new
caps. The group will fly thousands of its members to Washington
to lobby lawmakers during the first week of July, President Ron Phipps said in an interview.  “Maintaining high loan limits is critical to the market,”
said Phipps, head of Phipps Realty in Warwick, Rhode Island.
“We are working aggressively to extend them beyond Sept. 30.”  David Stevens, head of the  Mortgage Bankers Association ,
said the “odds are low” that the limits will stay at their
current levels.  The Clymans, the Peekskill house hunters, say they aren’t
waiting to see if the Realtors are successful in preventing the
rollback on loan limits. They recently made an offer on a home
listed for $629,000 in nearby Yorktown, though they’re willing
to pay as much as $729,000 for the right property.  “If we find houses we like, I’m going to let the offers
fly to make something happen,” Jon Clyman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  