-- 
BofA Said to Keep Some Office Space at Brookfield’s World Financial Center

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-06-29T15:29:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/bank-of-america-said-to-keep-750-000-square-feet-at-world-financial-center.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  tentatively
agreed to keep about 750,000 square feet of space at lower
Manhattan’s World Financial Center, less than a sixth of its
current lease, three people familiar with the discussions said.  The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank plans to stay in
offices at 2 and 4 World Financial Center, according to the
people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. A lease signing may be months away, two of the people
said. The company’s leases for 4.6 million square feet (427,000
square meters), inherited with the 2009 acquisition of Merrill
Lynch & Co., run out in 2013.  The expirations represent more than half of the 8 million-
square-foot World Financial Center, owned by Brookfield Office
Properties Inc. The landlord also is facing the departure of
Merrill subtenant  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , which agreed to move its
New York headquarters to Worldwide Plaza in Midtown.  Brookfield has “a lot of wood to chop,” John Stewart, an
analyst at Green Street Advisors Inc. in  Newport Beach ,
 California , said in a phone interview. “Three million square
feet to lease is nothing to sneeze at. But Brookfield has shown
they have the leasing platform that’s up to that challenge.”  Bank of America’s downtown leases generate almost 10
percent of the New York-based landlord’s net operating income,
Stewart wrote in a May 3 report.  Nomura Departure  The bank occupies about 2.7 million of the 4.6 million
square feet it leases at the financial center, the rest of which
is rented to subtenants including Tokyo-based Nomura, according
to Brookfield’s regulatory filings.  Nomura signed a 20-year lease for more than 900,000 square
feet at Worldwide Plaza, according to a statement today from
George Comfort & Sons, the building’s landlord. The securities
firm will take 20 full floors in the 1.8 million-square-foot
skyscraper at Eighth Avenue and 50th Street. Comfort bought the
tower in 2009 for $590 million, less than half of what previous
owner  Harry Macklowe  paid in 2007 at the height of the market.  The deal demonstrates Nomura’s “commitment to build a top-
tier investment bank in the U.S.,” Atsushi Yoshikawa, chief
executive officer of Nomura Holding America, said in the
statement. The company will move in mid-2013.  Melissa Coley, a Brookfield spokeswoman, declined to
comment yesterday, as did  Peter Truell , a spokesman for Nomura
in New York.  Midtown and Downtown  Bank of America is “committed to both midtown and downtown
Manhattan,” said T.J. Crawford, a spokesman. “At this point we
aren’t prepared to discuss our future plans but we are always
looking for ways to optimize our real estate portfolio.”  The lender’s  New York  headquarters is 1  Bryant Park , a 2.1
million-square-foot tower that it co-owns with the Durst
Organization in Midtown. Bank of America has been moving some
Merrill employees to that building since the acquisition.  Bank of America holds a 49 percent stake in 4 World
Financial Center, Merrill’s former headquarters building.  Brookfield has “made significant headway” in preparing
for the lease turnovers, Green Street’s Stewart said.  Market Momentum  “There’s a lot of momentum right now in the lower
Manhattan office market,” he said. “The hurdle doesn’t look as
insurmountable as it looked two years ago.”  Brookfield this year has signed more than 600,000 square
feet of new leases at the World Financial Center with companies
including OppenheimerFunds Inc. and Commerzbank AG, both of whom
were subtenants of Merrill, the company said earlier this month.  Conde Nast Publications Inc.’s $2 billion lease of about 1
million square feet at 1 World Trade Center, a skyscraper rising
across West Street from the financial center, has the potential
to create “a more vibrant environment” downtown that will be
attractive to other tenants, Stewart said.  Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG have expressed interest in
occupying offices at the  World Trade Center site , according to
people familiar with those companies’ space plans.  Lower  Manhattan  `Opportunities'  “Lower Manhattan represents probably the best
opportunities for quality space between the World Financial
Center and the World Trade Center in that large-block arena,”
Dennis Friedrich, Brookfield’s president and global chief
operating officer, said June 6 at a conference sponsored by the
National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. “That
has been driving activity at the World Financial Center and some
of our other downtown assets.”  The company is in “serious discussions” on about 2
million square feet of potential leases at the financial center,
Friedrich said. That number didn’t include Nomura, which the
company had been working to retain.  Brookfield announced plans earlier this month to spend
about $250 million remaking the financial center’s retail
portion, emphasizing waterfront dining and a “dramatic” glass
entryway off West Street for commuters coming up from the
transit hub now under construction at the trade center site.  Brookfield fell 1 cent to $19.04 at 11:28 a.m. in New York
Stock Exchange Composite trading. The shares have gained 9.2
percent this year, compared with a 7.5 percent advance in the
Dow Jones U.S. Real Estate Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  