-- 
Banks Questioned for Selling California Swaps Help Lockyer Craft Minibonds

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-06-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/banks-questioned-for-selling-california-swaps-help-lockyer-craft-minibonds.html
Morgan Stanley and  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
criticized by California for arranging investment bets against
state bonds, pitched Treasurer Bill Lockyer on ideas for
legislation to sell $25 “minibonds” to expand sales to
individuals, records from his office show.  Lockyer, a Democrat, came up with the proposal to sell
bonds in smaller increments than the usual $1,000 denominations
after reviewing solicitations from Morgan Stanley, Citigroup,
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and RBC Capital Markets in late 2009 and early
2010, according to documents obtained by Bloomberg News under a
public-records request.  Lockyer’s spokesman,  Tom Dresslar , said the treasurer would
be remiss not to consider ideas from banks, even those whose
credit-default swap practices he challenged. Banks collect fees
on bond transactions and would stand to profit if  California 
shifted a $1,000 bond sale into 40 sales of $25 each.  “It would be counterproductive to completely shut the door
to any ideas brought forward by a bank just because we had
concerns about some of their market activities,” Dresslar said
in a telephone interview.  Lockyer, a 70-year-old who served in the state Senate and
the Assembly, was the major force behind the minibonds bill,
Dresslar said. The treasurer, who oversaw more than $27 billion
in bond sales in 2010, believes that the lower denominations
would expand the market for California bonds beyond
professionally managed funds, his spokesman said.  Awkward Position  Assemblywoman Diane Harkey, a Republican from Dana Point
who voted against the minibond bill, said taking advice from the
same banks he criticized put Lockyer in an awkward position.  “It is amusing that we beat up the Wall Street banks --
which I think is worthy when you look at their fees -- and then
you go to the same banks for them to suggest creative vehicles
for the investment markets,” she said. The bill  passed  the
Assembly on May 23 and is now before the Senate.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Citigroup were among six investment
banks that Lockyer  investigated  in 2010 for offering credit-
default swaps on state debt while at the same time underwriting
California bonds. The contracts had the potential to inflate
borrowing costs for the largest issuer of U.S. municipal debt by
exaggerating credit risk, the treasurer said.  Credit-default swaps are derivatives based on bonds and
loans that were created to protect debt holders against default.
The insurance contracts, now commonly used by traders to
speculate on an issuer’s creditworthiness, pay off if a borrower
fails to meet its debt agreements.  CDS Contracts Rise  While California has never defaulted on its debt, the
number of credit-default contracts on California bonds has grown
to 1,064 from 522 a year earlier, according to the Depository
Trust & Clearing Corp., which monitors the market.  The price of credit-default contracts on 10-year California
bonds has risen 29 percent since May 26 to $192,580 yesterday to
protect $10 million of bonds, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Lockyer’s probe  concluded  that Morgan Stanley, Citigroup,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Bank of America
Merrill Lynch and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  had traded $27.5 billion of the
derivatives between 2007 and April 2010. Morgan Stanley made
$9.4 billion in such trades, the most of the six, and Citigroup
got $3.3 billion, third-highest, according to a statement from
Lockyer based on bank information.  While he criticized the banks for profiting on bets against
the bonds they were paid to underwrite, Lockyer said in an April
2010  statement  that the effect on California securities prices
was “not significant enough to cause concern at this time.”
The final three words were underlined.  Gauging Market  Lockyer’s office hasn’t gauged the market for $25 municipal
bonds, Dresslar said. In Wells Fargo’s pitch to the treasurer,
its securities division said California’s initial transaction
could be in the $500 million to $750 million range, with
issuance ultimately as much as $2 billion as investors become
more familiar with the product.  California is a prominent debt issuer that “could be a
highly sought-after name” in the $25 market, Wells Fargo wrote
to Lockyer.  The treasurer’s support of minibond legislation doesn’t
necessarily mean California is poised for an issue, Dresslar
said. Lockyer’s office has yet to analyze transaction costs and
the potential market, he said, and wouldn’t attempt a deal that
would raise borrowing expenses.  Spokeswomen for three banks that made their cases to
Lockyer declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News:
Danielle Romero-Apsilos of New York-based Citigroup, Elisa Marks
of  RBC Capital Markets  in  New York , and Mary Claire Delaney, of
Morgan Stanley in New York.  Wells Fargo Pitch  A Wells Fargo spokesman in  Charlotte , Michael McCoy,
wouldn’t say whether the bank has promoted low-denomination
bonds to states other than California.  “What we try to do with all of our customers is to educate
them on what their options are,” McCoy said in a telephone
interview.  Lockyer’s courting of small investors suggests that
traditional municipal bond buyers are balking at California,
Harkey said. The most-populous state has the lowest credit
rating of any state from  Standard & Poor’s , an A-, and the
state’s leaders remain deadlocked over how to deal with an
estimated $10 billion budget deficit.  “Is it because we want to open up new markets or is it
because our existing investor base is tapped out?” Harkey asked
in a phone interview. “It appears to me that we’re having
trouble reaching our usual market.”  Dresslar said California, which hasn’t gone to the market
this year, found buyers for all of the bonds it sold last year.  Lockyer, now in his second term as treasurer, has marketed
state bonds to individual investors using radio ads.  ‘Not Concerned’  “We’re not concerned about selling bonds,” Dresslar said.
“We’re just looking for potential ways to expand the retail
base in a way that expands the market and keeps borrowing costs
down for taxpayers.”  No state has issued such low-priced general obligations,
Dresslar said.  In their pitches to Lockyer, Citigroup and RBC Capital
cited two previous issues of $25 municipal bonds. The most
recent was a $100 million sale of pension-obligation bonds by
 San Diego County  in 2002. The other was for $225 million by the
Philadelphia Authority for Industrial Development in 1999, also
for  pension funding .  Citigroup said it placed 61 percent of the 4 million shares
of the San Diego debt with individual investors. Neither bank
provided data on the Philadelphia bonds, marketed by  Paine
Webber , which was acquired by  UBS AG (UBS)  in 2000. Spokeswoman Karina Byrne in New York said UBS no longer has a municipal bond unit
and couldn’t locate anyone involved in the sale.  San Diego Bonds  The San Diego County bonds, known as Public Income Notes or
PINES, allowed the county to access individual investors it
otherwise couldn’t reach, said Michael Workman, a spokesman for
the state’s second most-populous county.  The lower-denomination bonds have higher costs of issuance
than conventional debt, Workman said, although he couldn’t
provide specifics. The Lockyer-backed legislation would provide
flexibility for instruments like PINES at the state level,
Workman said in an e-mail message, “if they ever do become a
cost-effective option.”  Charles C. Jones, executive director of the Philadelphia
Sinking Fund Commission, said he couldn’t comment on the 1999
bond sale as he wasn’t with the city at that time.  In the past, small-denomination bonds weren’t successful
because transaction costs ate up yields, said  Bart Hildreth , a
professor at  Georgia State University  in Atlanta and editor-in-
chief of the Municipal Finance Journal.  Improved Technology  Improved technology has lowered transaction costs, making
the concept worth a try, Hildreth said in a telephone interview.  “We see that individual investors have been a steady part
of the market, especially in this turmoil,” he said, referring
to the economic recession. “It would take an issuer such as
California to pull it off, to have the infrastructure and the
standing to do this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  