-- 
Bank of America Said to Near $8.5 Billion Settlement With Bondholder Group

-- B y   H u g h   S o n ,   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-06-29T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/bank-of-america-said-to-near-8-5-billion-settlement-with-bondholder-group.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
 U.S. bank  by assets, is close to announcing an $8.5 billion
settlement over soured mortgages after a group of bondholders
including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  demanded refunds, said three people
briefed on the negotiations.  The company expects that the deal will resolve more than
half of its costs tied to demands made by institutional
investors, said one of the people, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity because the talks aren’t public. Remaining costs on
defective mortgages excluded from the deal may range from $2.5
billion to $5.5 billion, the person said.  “This is progress in that it puts some parameters around
what the total loss will be,” said  Marty Mosby , a Nashville,
Tennessee-based analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC, which
manages more than $100 billion, including Bank of America
shares. “It’s not a great thing to pay this much, but it’s not
the worst-case scenario either.”  Investors, which also include Pacific Investment Management
Co. and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, demanded in
October that Bank of America repurchase home loans that had been
packaged into bonds by Countrywide Financial Corp., which it
acquired in 2008. The deal covers mortgages in trusts with $424
billion in original balances and $106 billion in principal at
some stage of default, one of the people said.  The bank may say that it’s adding to a liability reserve
for future loan-repurchase demands, which was $6.2 billion as of
March 31, the person said. The company’s board met yesterday to
discuss the settlement, which follows a $3 billion deal
announced in January to resolve similar claims from  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac , the U.S.-owned mortgage firms.  ‘Small in Comparison’  Bank of America also said in April that it agreed to pay an
estimated  $1.6 billion  to resolve claims with bond insurer
 Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)   “While it seemed like a material dollar amount, it was
small in comparison to the amount of damages suffered by the
investors,” said Isaac Gradman, a San Francisco-based
litigation consultant. “Still, getting $8.5 billion out of a
bank that said it would fight these things tooth-and-nail has to
be considered something of a success.”  Costs tied to faulty mortgages have been a moving target
for Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
51. The firm previously said that expenses tied to demands from
bond buyers other than Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could range
from zero to as much as $7 billion to $10 billion. In a May
regulatory filing, the lender said that estimate may be $11
billion to $14 billion if an assumption regarding the
difficulties investors would face to make claims proved
incorrect.  BlackRock, Pimco  Spokesmen for Bank of America, New York-based BlackRock,
the New York Fed and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the trustee
for the mortgage-bond deals, said they couldn’t comment.  Kathy Patrick , a lawyer at Houston-based Gibbs & Bruns LLP, who
represents investors, said she couldn’t comment.  Mark Porterfield  of Newport Beach, California-based Pimco didn’t
return phone and e-mail messages seeking comment.  Countrywide ranked as the top issuer of the securities in
2005, 2006 and 2007, when the worst-performing debt was created,
according to Inside MBS & ABS, a newsletter. The lender created
$405 billion of the $3.04 trillion of the bonds sold in those
years. Bank of America issued $76.9 billion of the securities.
Merrill Lynch, which was purchased by the bank at the start of
2009, and First Franklin, which Merrill Lynch bought at the
beginning of 2007, issued a combined $116 billion.  Bond insurer MBIA Inc., in suing Bank of America and
Countrywide over $21 billion of mortgage securities in  New York 
State Supreme Court, said its reviews had found that 91 percent
of defaulted or delinquent loans had “material discrepancies
from underwriting guidelines,” such as borrower incomes, credit
scores or debt-to-income ratios.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at +1-617-210-4624 or
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 