-- 
Barcelona to Test Arsenal Resolve With $56 Million Fabregas Bid: Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-06-28T06:56:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/barcelona-to-test-arsenal-resolve-with-56-million-fabregas-bid-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Barcelona Raises Bid  European champion Barcelona is poised to make an improved
35 million-pound ($55.8 million) offer for Cesc Fabregas after
detecting a softening in Arsenal’s resolve to keep its captain,
the Guardian  reported .  Barcelona had two bids for Fabregas turned down last year
and returned this month with an offer of 27 million pounds that
was again rejected, the Guardian said. Fabregas, who is
currently on vacation in  Spain , would prefer any deal to be done
before he’s due to report for pre-season training at Arsenal
next week, the newspaper added.  Yearlong Saga  Fabregas could become a Barcelona player by the weekend,
the Daily Mirror  reported , citing a senior Arsenal official it
didn’t identify. The Gunners want between 40 million pounds and
60 million pounds for the midfielder, though may sell for 35
million pounds to bring to an end a transfer saga lasting more
than a year, the Mirror said.  Arsenal Alternative  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  is tracking Chile midfielder
Arturo Vidal, 24, because of doubts over the futures of Fabregas
and Samir Nasri, the Mirror  reported .  Vidal scored 10 goals for  Bayer Leverkusen  in  Germany ’s
Bundesliga last season and is rated at about 15 million pounds,
the newspaper said. As Barcelona step up their attempts to sign
Fabregas, Manchester United and  Bayern Munich  are monitoring
contract talks between Arsenal and Nasri, who has a year
remaining on his current deal, the Mirror added.  No Smiles  Nasri cast a downbeat figure yesterday at the launch of
Arsenal’s new away shirt for the 2011-12 season, the  Daily Mail 
 reported . The midfielder “looked completely uninterested” in
the blue and turquoise uniform, which will feature a special
crest to mark the club’s 125th anniversary, the Mail said.  Modric Talks  Luka Modric’s future at Tottenham should become clearer on
July 6, when the Croatian midfielder will hold talks with Spurs
chairman Daniel Levy, the Guardian  reported .  Modric will report for pre-season training and have a
meeting with Levy, accompanied by one of his representatives,
the Guardian said. Chelsea had a bid of 22 million pounds for
Modric rejected and  Manchester United  is also interested in
signing Tottenham’s player of the year, the newspaper added.  Four for One  Tottenham offered Bolton four players in a potential
exchange for defender  Gary Cahill , the Daily Mail  reported .  Spurs, who are working to trim their squad to make way for
new signings, contacted Bolton manager Owen Coyle over a deal
that would involve swapping Sebastien Bassong,  Robbie Keane ,
Jermaine Jenas and Alan Hutton for the England international
defender, the Mail said.  Wickham Fee Agreed  Sunderland agreed to pay Ipswich 13 million pounds for 18-
year-old striker Connor Wickham in a bid to see off competition
from Liverpool, the Mirror  reported .  The Black Cats are committing 9 million pounds up front and
a further 4 million pounds in add-ons for the teenager and the
size of the offer has forced Ipswich to allow Wickham to speak
to Sunderland about moving to the Premier League club, the
Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  