-- 
Basel Regulators Said to Scrutinize Banks’ ‘Flawed’ Risk-Weighting Methods

-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-06-28T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/basel-regulators-said-to-scrutinize-banks-flawed-risk-models.html
Global banking regulators are moving
their attention to disparities in the way firms measure the
riskiness of their assets on concern lenders may be using their
internal models to mitigate rules aimed at making them boost
capital.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  agreed on June
25 to make systemically important financial institutions hold
core Tier 1 capital of as much as 9.5 percent of total risk-
weighted assets. Now regulators are preparing to assess how
banks set risk weightings amid criticism firms’ calculations are
inconsistent, said a person with direct knowledge of the matter
who declined to be identified because the talks are private.  “There is no question that the weightings can be
manipulated,” said  Charles Goodhart , a former Bank of England
policy maker and professor at the  London  School of Economics.
“They are light years away from being scientific. The idea that
risk can be captured and then not adjusted to reflect dynamic
markets is absolutely flawed.”  The internal ratings rules determine how much capital banks
should set aside to cover assets such as mortgages, derivatives
as well as consumer and corporate loans. The riskier the asset,
the higher weighting it attracts and the more capital a bank is
required to allocate. That affects the profitability of trading
and investing in those assets for the lender.  Firms use their own internal models to decide how much
capital to assign based on their own view of those assets
defaulting. The models aren’t disclosed and banks can reach
different risk weightings for the same assets, regulators and
analysts say.  ‘Basic Problem’  “The basic problem with all this data is can you trust the
banks to tell you the bad news?” said Prem Sikka, an accounting
professor at the University of Essex. “Regulators won’t have
the resources to scrutinize things in detail, but if things are
publicly available, ordinary people, academics, lenders,
depositors -- anyone who’s interested -- can look and help with
the regulation of these banks by pointing out anomalies.”  U.S. bankers and regulators have criticized their European
counterparts for underestimating risks on their balance sheets.
By reducing the weightings so they can hold less capital, banks
can also stymie regulators’ moves to prevent a repeat of the
financial crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in September 2008. Regulators agreed last year to
require lenders to more than triple the highest-quality capital
they hold to cushion against losses by 2019 under the so-called
Basel III rules.  Peer-Review Process  European banks “effectively set their own  capital
requirements  using internal risk estimates, unconstrained by any
objective hard limits,”  Sheila Bair , chairman of the U.S.
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp, told a House Financial Services
Committee hearing on 16 June.  Regulators are considering a peer-review process, setting
up a sub-committee of the Basel Committee to ask a sample of
banks to calculate risk weightings on a group of comparable
assets to assess whether they are being calculated consistently,
the person with knowledge of the plans said. A spokesman for the
committee declined to comment.  “The definition of risk weights is incredibly important,”
 Adair Turner , chairman of Britain’s Financial Services Authority
and a member of the Basel Committee, said in a June 24 speech.
“There is a major project for the Basel Committee and the
international authorities to really focus on the commonality of
risk weights,” he said. “The integrity of this whole system
depends on us really being confident” that banks are using the
same risk-ratings. He declined to be interviewed for this story.  ‘Data Cleansing’  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the U.K.’s biggest mortgage
lender, reduced the estimated risk of default on its mortgages
to 12 percent in 2010 from 17 percent in 2009, according to a
May filing. By contrast, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, owner
of  NatWest , raised its estimate for defaults to 13 percent over
the same period from 12 percent, according to Morgan Stanley
analysts. Officials at the two banks declined to comment on
their calculations.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s Finance Director, Iain Mackay, said
last month at an investor meeting that Europe’s biggest bank had
been able to make “significant risk weight asset savings” in
the past years through a process of “data cleansing.”  “It’s not transparent to anybody outside whether the model
is as good as it could be and, therefore, the capital weighting
is right,” Chairman  Douglas Flint  told the meeting on May 11.  U.S. Banks  U.S. banks still use  standardized risk weightings  set by
regulators after the country opted out of Basel II bank rules
introduced in 2004. Under the standardized system, asset types
are assigned specific weightings, giving banks less flexibility.
Banks attribute a risk weighting to all the assets on their
balance sheets, ranging from zero for lending to the U.S.
government to 100 for derivative products.  U.S. banks applied an average risk-weighting of 69 percent
of their assets compared with 41 percent for  Europe , Citigroup
Inc. analysts led by Kinner Lakhani said in June 20 report. The
higher figure suggests U.S. banks’ balance sheets are riskier.  Analysts at Citigroup and Morgan Stanley say the difference
in risk weightings may be justified.  “The key driver of differentiated risk-weights is retail
banking, in our view,” Lakhani said in the report. “Empirical
analysis suggests this is largely justified by the risk
experience over the last downturn.” U.S. mortgage default rates
are considerably higher than those in  France , for example, and
this is reflected in Europe’s lower weightings, Lakhani said.  Morgan Stanley  Differing U.S. and European accounting rules may also
exaggerate the gap, analysts said. Adjusted for U.S.  Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles , the difference between European
and U.S. averages shrinks from more than 30 percent to 11
percent, analysts at Morgan Stanley said in a June 19 report,
citing a basket of securities firms.  Morgan Stanley estimates the average risk weighting as a
proportion of total assets in the fourth quarter of 2010 was 47
percent at HSBC, 43 percent at  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, 45 percent
at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and 44 percent at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “Despite U.S. criticisms, our research suggests that there
is actually a lot of commonality between banks,” Morgan Stanley
banking analyst Huw van Steenis said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net 
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  