-- 
Arlene Forms First Tropical Storm of Atlantic Hurricane Season

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-06-29T12:18:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/bay-of-campeche-system-has-90-chance-of-becoming-cyclone-1-.html
The first tropical storm of the
 Atlantic hurricane season , Arlene, formed in the southwestern
 Gulf of Mexico  and may cause “life-threatening flash floods and
mudslides,” the National Hurricane Center said.  Arlene is moving west-northwest at 8 miles (13 kilometers)
per hour, with a turn toward the west forecast today, the center
said in a  bulletin  at about 7 a.m. CDT. Maximum sustained winds
are 40 mph, the  center said.  A tropical storm becomes a
hurricane when its wind speed reaches 74 mph.  The government of Mexico has issued a tropical storm
warning for the coast of northeastern Mexico from Barra de
Nautla northward to Bahia Algodones, the center said. “Arlene
is expected to make landfall along the northeastern coast of
Mexico within the warning area early on Thursday.”  The storm is about 175 miles east of Tampico, Mexico, where
some oil is exported. It is north of the Bay of Campeche, where
the country’s largest crude field, Cantarell, is located.  Arlene is forecast to produce 4 to 8 inches of rain over
the Mexican states of Tamaulipas, Veracruz and eastern San Luis
Potosi and up to 15 inches over mountainous terrain, according
to the center. A  storm surge  will raise water levels by as much
as 2 feet above normal tide levels along the coast.  ‘Little’ U.S. Impact  The system will have “little impact” in the U.S.,
Accuweather Inc. said in an e-mail.  “However, moisture will work across Mexico this weekend
and some could work north into the Southwest deserts Tuesday and
Wednesday next week,” according to the weather forecaster.  The storm is unlikely to threaten the U.S. oil industry,
according to  Jeff Masters , co-founder of  Weather Underground
Inc.  in  Ann Arbor , Michigan. “A strong ridge of high pressure
is going to keep it bottled up,” he said.  Petroleos Mexicanos , Mexico’s state-owned oil company and
Latin America’s largest crude producer, has wells in the area.
 Mexico  is the second-largest oil exporter to the U.S. and
provided 1.19 million barrels a day in March, the latest month
for which U.S. Energy Department figures are available.  It may be “well into July” before any storms threaten oil
installations, Masters said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 