-- 
Belarus Ruble Exchange Rate Is ‘Unsustainable,’ Citigroup Says

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-06-28T07:47:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/belarus-ruble-exchange-rate-is-unsustainable-citigroup-says.html
Belarus ’s ruble should be allowed to
depreciate further after being devalued 36 percent last month,
according to Citigroup Inc.  “The current  exchange rate  appears unsustainable even with
 Russia ’s support,” Citigroup analysts led by  David Lubin , the
U.S. bank’s chief emerging-markets economist, wrote in an e-
mailed note today. The former Soviet republic should implement
structural changes including “further devaluation” of the
ruble, the analysts wrote.  Belarus devalued the ruble as foreign-currency reserves
slid to a 20-month low and the monthly inflation rate tripled to
13.1 percent. President Aleksandr Lukashenko, who has ruled
Belarus for 14 years, asked the  International Monetary Fund  and
Russia for loans to prop up the economy after the country ran up
a current-account deficit equivalent to 16 percent of gross
domestic product last year.  The Russian-led Eurasian Economic Community completed a $3
billion bailout package with Belarus June 9, and sent the first
$800 million on June 21, while demanding Belarus sell state
assets. Belarus must agree to “structural reforms,” including a
free-floating ruble, to qualify for a new bailout package, the
IMF said on June 13.  “IMF funding is unlikely” given that “political
constraints will prevent the authorities from giving sufficient
commitment to the program,” Citigroup’s analysts wrote.  Lukashenko, labeled  Europe ’s “last dictator” by U.S.
President  George W. Bush ’s administration, said during a news
conference in Minsk June 17 that the European Union and the U.S.
may try to block IMF aid for political reasons.  Default Unlikely  Belarus’s 2015 dollar debt currently yields 12.128 percent,
395 basis points, or 3.95 percentage points, higher than at the
start of the year. The yield reached a record-high 12.482
percent May 31.  While Belarus’s fiscal situation “could become difficult”
toward the end of this year, a default on the country’s
Eurobonds is “highly unlikely” in the next one to two years,
according to the note. The government has a “modest” payment
of $85 million due this year, according to the note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  