-- 
Berlin Zoo Commemorates Jewish Shareholders Persecuted by Nazis

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-06-28T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/berlin-zoo-belatedly-commemorates-jewish-shareholders-persecuted-by-nazis.html
Werner Cohn, a retired sociology
professor living in New York, remembers a sea lion called Roland
from childhood visits to the zoo in Berlin. Cohn’s father was a
shareholder in the zoo, which gave the family free admission.  “My father would go there every morning for breakfast,”
Cohn, 85, said by telephone. “We would go there on our own as
children and meet our friends to play.”  His family fled in October 1938, a few weeks before the
Nazi pogrom known as Kristallnacht. Cohn campaigned for decades
 in letters to the zoo  to find out what happened to his father’s
share and the stock of other Jewish shareholders in  Zoologischer
Garten Berlin (ZOO)  AG.  It is only since 2002 that the zoo has begun examining its
anti-Semitic Nazi-era policies, which entailed excluding Jews as
board members, stockholders and, finally, as visitors. And it
has only now found a way to commemorate the shareholders -- with
a plaque on the Antelope House, unveiled yesterday.  “Everyone is aware of the fact that it is too late,”
Hermann Simon, a historian specializing in Jewish history and
the director of the  Foundation for New Synagogues  in Berlin,
said in an interview. “But does that mean they should wait
another 10 years? Better late than never.”  Beneath the minarets of the opulent antelope house built in
1871, Gabriele Thoene, the zoo’s business director since 2008,
pledged to investigate the company’s past in more detail. It was
at Thoene’s instigation that the plaque was erected.  Forgotten Stories  “We don’t want to stop at the memorial plaque,” she said
in an interview. “We also want to look into these forgotten
biographies. We are planning to publish a book.” Compensation
for the dispossessed shareholders is not on the agenda, she
said.  In the 1920s and 1930s, the  zoo  played a central role in
the social life of the city, Thoene said. “It was ‘bon ton’ to
be a shareholder of the zoo,” she said. Many Jews were among
those who helped build up the zoo and keep it going.  After the Nazis came to power in 1933, a policy of
exclusion took root. According to the 2002 report commissioned
by Berlin Zoo from historian Monika Schmidt, the four Jews on
the supervisory board of 12 were gradually ousted and replaced
with Nazis -- including Julius Lippert, a friend of Propaganda
Minister  Joseph Goebbels  and a former editor-in-chief of the
Nazi newspaper “Angriff.”  Then (as now) there were only 4,000 shares in the Berlin
Zoo and their owners are required to be registered by name. As
is still the case, the shares changed hands rarely and tended to
pass from one generation to the next.  Forced Sales  From 1938, Jewish shareholders were banned from bequeathing
or selling their shares and could only sell them to the zoo at a
price vastly lower than they paid. Jews could no longer acquire
the shares and, according to Schmidt’s report, the requirement
that all shareholders were registered by name became “an
instrument of repression, of ‘Aryanization.’”  Schmidt said that it’s possible Jews were forced to sell
their shares to the zoo. Those who sold shares after 1938 needed
the money to survive or to flee, her report said. The Berlin Zoo
benefited financially from the sales, she wrote.  From late 1938, the zoo hung signs outside its gates saying
“Juden unerwuenscht,” or “Jews not welcome,” and from early
1939, Jews were denied entry.  The fate of the zoo’s Jewish supporters is even documented
in fiction. In her autobiographical novel, “When Hitler Stole
Pink Rabbit,” Judith Kerr describes Onkel Julius, a naturalist
whose pass to the zoo is revoked in an official letter. He never
recovers from the shock and kills himself with an overdose.  ‘Repeated Lies’  Yet as late as 2000, Cohn received a letter from the zoo’s
lawyer,  Richard Lehmann , saying that no Jewish owners had been
expropriated of shares. Lehmann also said he could “confirm
with absolute certainty” that he himself had never seen signs
hostile to Jews in the zoo as a child. He also insisted that the
zoo welcomed all visitors equally during the Nazi era.  “The zoo now is willing to talk about its own Nazi period,
but in the years from 1945 to 2002 -- a 57-year span -- it
sought to cover up this history, repeatedly lying to inquiring
former stockholders like myself,” Cohn said.  At yesterday’s ceremony, Thoene and Berlin Culture
Secretary Andre Schmitz paid tribute to Cohn’s tirelessness in
prodding the zoo to reveal the truth. Schmitz described
Lehmann’s letter to Cohn as a “sad episode.” Thoene said she
wrote to Cohn to tell him about the plaque and send a photo.  Yet for Cohn, it may all be much too little, much too late.  “It adds insult to injury at this stage,” he said from
 New York . “It took nine years to do this, but far worse, it
took more than 50 years to realize there is even an issue. They
behaved so badly.”  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 