-- 
Biggest Tax Avoiders Win Most Gaming $1 Trillion U.S. Tax Break

-- B y   J e s s e   D r u c k e r
-- 
2011-06-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/biggest-tax-avoiders-win-most-gaming-1-trillion-u-s-tax-break.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  has cut its
income taxes by $7 billion since 2005 by booking roughly half
its worldwide profits at a subsidiary at the foot of the Swiss
Alps that employs about 100 people.  Now Cisco, the largest maker of networking equipment, wants
to save even more -- by asking Congress to waive most federal
taxes due when multinationals bring such offshore earnings home.
Chief Executive Officer John T. Chambers has led the charge for
the tax holiday, which would be the second since 2004. He says
it would encourage companies to “repatriate” as much as $1
trillion held abroad, spur domestic investment and create jobs.  Cisco’s techniques cut the effective tax rate on its
reported international income to about 5 percent since 2008 by
moving profits from roughly $20 billion in annual global sales
through the Netherlands,  Switzerland  and Bermuda, according to
its records in four countries. The maneuvers, permitted by tax
law, show how companies that use such strategies most
aggressively would get the biggest benefit from the holiday,
said Edward D. Kleinbard, a law professor at the University of
Southern California in  Los Angeles .  “Why should we reward firms for successfully gaming the
tax system when we in turn are called on to make up the missing
tax revenues?” said Kleinbard, a former corporate tax attorney
at  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP . “Much of these
earnings overseas are reaped from an enormous shell game: Firms
move their taxable income from the U.S. and other major
economies -- where their customers and key employees are in
reality located -- to tax havens.”  Complying With Laws  “Cisco complies with all global tax laws,” said John Earnhardt, a spokesman for the San Jose, California-based
company, which makes switches, routers and other products, in an
e-mailed statement. “In the past three years alone, Cisco
(which has over 35,000 U.S. employees) has paid approximately
$4.4 billion in U.S. federal corporate income taxes.” The
company reported an effective tax rate last year of 17.5
percent, half the U.S. statutory rate.  Companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
are also pushing the proposed tax holiday, which would allow
profits to return to the U.S. at a discounted 5.25 percent rate.
Under current law, American companies can defer federal income
taxes on most overseas earnings indefinitely. When they do
return to the U.S., they’re taxed at the corporate rate of 35
percent -- with credits for foreign income taxes paid. Thus,
companies paying little overseas face higher U.S. tax bills upon
repatriation, and would get more benefit from the discount.  Competitors’ Rates  “Cisco would like to bring its after-tax foreign earnings
back to spend in the U.S., but cannot with the U.S. corporate
 tax rate  at 35 percent,” Earnhardt said. “Our foreign
competitors are allowed to repatriate foreign earnings at rates
of 0 to 2 percent.” The tax-holiday push comes as the company
faces shareholder pressure to add to its cash outlays by paying
higher dividends to boost its stock price. It closed at $15.05
yesterday, down 25.6 percent this year.  One way multinationals avoid taxes is through “transfer
pricing,” transactions among subsidiaries that allow for
allocating expenses to high-tax countries and profits to tax
havens.  As governments worldwide grapple with budget deficits --
$1.4 trillion projected for the U.S. and 597 billion euros for
the European Union -- such income-shifting by multinationals
cost the U.S. Treasury about $90 billion in revenue in 2008
alone, according to a March article by Kimberly A. Clausing, an
economics professor at Reed College in Portland, Oregon.  ‘Round-Tripping’  Cisco transfers a portion of the patent rights to
technology developed in the U.S. to a Dutch unit, which sells
some of the resulting products back to its parent for eventual
distribution in the U.S., according to annual reports filed by
the Amsterdam subsidiary. That means Cisco credits about $5
billion in U.S. sales annually to the Netherlands.  While that sort of structure allows for shifting income
from U.S. sales to offshore subsidiaries -- a maneuver known as
“round-tripping” -- Cisco pays all U.S. taxes on its profit from
U.S. sales, said Earnhardt, the spokesman.  The company’s overseas units move at least some of the
income back to their American parent via payments for the use of
intellectual property and other services. Cisco does not
disclose whether any earnings from U.S. sales remain permanently
offshore.  At the same time, most of the income from sales in
countries like  Germany ,  France  and  Japan , where statutory income
tax rates average more than 30 percent, is ultimately
transferred to Switzerland, meaning the other nations lose
potential tax revenue. The result: Cisco’s international
earnings have been taxed at about 5 percent since 2008, records
show.  Cost of Holiday  Chambers, 61, declined to be interviewed for this article.
Over the past year, he has campaigned for a repatriation tax
holiday, which the nonpartisan congressional Joint Committee on
Taxation says would cost the U.S. Treasury $78.7 billion over
the next decade. That’s about how much the federal government
will spend on cancer research over that time, based on current
budgets.  On earnings calls, in speeches and in national media,
Chambers has made the case for the tax break, saying it would
help overcome a corporate tax system he calls “a dinosaur” and
“put more than two million Americans back to work.”  It’s unclear whether any jobs would come from Cisco, which
announced plans in May to shed an unspecified number of workers.
Earnhardt, the spokesman, declined to comment on hiring plans
for the company, whose customers include  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ)  and  AT&T Inc. (T)   Cash Overseas  All told, Cisco has accumulated $31.6 billion in overseas
earnings on which it has paid no U.S. income taxes yet, records
show -- part of more than $1 trillion in U.S. companies’
offshore profits, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In
total, almost 90 percent of Cisco’s cash sits overseas.  “I create jobs overseas,” Chambers told interviewer
Lesley Stahl on the CBS News program “60 Minutes” in March.
“I build plants overseas and I badly want to bring that money
back.”  The company needs that cash to prop up its share price --
which explains its support for the tax break, said Sandeep Shyamsukha, a communications analyst at Auriga USA LLC in  San
Francisco . Since 2006, Cisco has spent $43.5 billion on stock
buy-backs. In April, it paid its first shareholder dividend.
Consumer advocate Ralph Nader, who owns Cisco stock, this month
called for doubling the payout, as first reported in the Wall
Street Journal.  ‘Tremendous Pressure’  “The stock is struggling, the company has reached a mature
phase and investors are demanding more returns,” said
Shyamsukha, who has a “hold” recommendation on Cisco shares.
“There’s tremendous pressure on the management to give out
dividends and higher buybacks and that’s probably what’s pushing
them in this direction.”  U.S. companies used $312 billion they repatriated under a
2004 tax holiday largely for stock repurchases, while doing
little direct hiring or domestic investment, according to a
paper in the current issue of the Journal of Finance by
professors at the University of  Illinois , Harvard University,
and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. It was the latest
in a series of studies that reached similar conclusions.  While Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner has expressed
skepticism about a new repatriation break, Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican, introduced a bill on May 11 that,
like the 2004 measure, would not require companies to use their
cash for hiring.  Lower the Gate  Brady declined to address why his measure does not include
a hiring requirement. “With millions of Americans seeking work
it makes good economic sense to temporarily lower the tax gate
and allow up to a trillion dollars of stranded American profits
to flow back into our economy,” he said in a statement.  The idea gained momentum last week after Senator Charles Schumer, a New York Democrat, said his party’s caucus was
discussing whether short-term revenue from the holiday could
fund an “infrastructure bank” to create jobs. Senator John Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat, has also signaled that he may
reconsider his previous opposition.  Cisco,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and others formed a
coalition called WIN America Campaign that plans to spend
several million dollars pushing the issue. The group is being
advised by SKDKnickerbocker, a Washington-based political
consulting firm for which Anita Dunn, President Obama’s former
communications director, is a managing director.  “We simply don’t think it’s a good idea to do nothing while
a trillion dollars sits overseas,” said Doug Thornell, a vice
president for the firm who is advising the campaign.  Terra Cotta Hub  Cisco’s overseas hub, in a terra cotta-faced office on the
outskirts of Amsterdam, coordinates manufacturing, distribution
and sales to  Europe ,  Asia  and other markets. Cisco Systems
International BV employs about 2 percent of the company’s global
workforce of roughly 70,000. It gets credit for more than half
of Cisco’s worldwide sales, including part of the U.S. business,
according to Dutch and U.S. filings.  Beginning in 1996, the Netherlands subsidiary began paying
for part of Cisco’s ongoing research in the U.S. under a cost-
sharing agreement, according to corporate records. Like other
U.S. technology companies, Cisco qualifies for U.S. tax benefits
by doing most of its research and development domestically. By
paying for some of it, the overseas unit can remove a chunk of
any subsequent profits from the U.S. and claim them offshore.  Buy-in Payments  Cisco’s foreign operations also made so-called buy-in
payments to the U.S. parent, acquiring an interest in some
existing intellectual property -- and a claim on future profits
from it.  The company hasn’t disclosed the amounts paid in those
transactions since 2002. The U.S. Treasury Department requires
that foreign subsidiaries pay an “arm’s length” price, or the
amount that would be paid by an unrelated party.  As a result of these arrangements, Cisco must buy from its
own Dutch subsidiary some of the products it then sells to U.S.
customers, even for equipment based on patents developed in the
U.S. In 2008, for example, the Amsterdam unit reported $6.1
billion in sales to the U.S. and  Canada  -- equaling about 30
percent of Cisco’s total sales in those two countries.  The Dutch unit reported just a 1 percent profit margin on
its total revenue of $22.1 billion in 2008. That’s because most
of Cisco’s overseas earnings flow from the Netherlands to a
separate subsidiary in Switzerland under a sublicensing
agreement for intellectual property.  Dutch Rules  Dutch tax rules make it cheaper for companies to route
payments to their units in tax havens like Bermuda through the
Netherlands instead of sending them there directly, said Richard Murphy, director of UK-based Tax Research LLP.  In Rolle, about 25 miles north of Geneva, a subsidiary
called Cisco Systems International Sarl collects billions of
dollars a year from its Dutch cousin. The town, which features
sweeping views of the Alps and Lake Geneva, is home to units of
several U.S. multinationals, lured by tax advantages. Rolle’s
main pedestrian drag, Grand Rue, is lined by boulangeries and
real estate offices listing homes for millions of Swiss francs.  A short walk from 13th century buildings is Cisco’s Swiss
subsidiary, housed in a five-story structure with horizontal
metal blinds that resembles a giant air conditioner.  Although Cisco does not disclose precise amounts paid to
the Swiss company, the Dutch unit reported paying $9.6 billion
to other Cisco subsidiaries in 2008, including “royalty
payments for the license of intellectual property.” The Swiss
unit’s tax rate has been less than 5 percent in recent years.  Other Countries’ Rates  That beats the income-tax rates in many countries where
Cisco has sales: Germany’s combined national-local rate is 30.2
percent; France’s 34.4 percent; Japan’s 39.5 percent and the
U.K.’s 26 percent, according to figures from the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development.  While Switzerland’s average combined statutory corporate
income tax rate is about 21 percent, some companies receive
significant exemptions at both the federal level and the canton,
the Swiss equivalent of the state. A spokesman for the Swiss
Federal Tax Administration declined to comment.  The unit in Rolle, which has roughly 100 workers, is owned
by yet another Cisco subsidiary, registered at the offices of
Conyers Dill & Pearman, a law firm in Hamilton, Bermuda. For
U.S. tax purposes, profits from the Swiss and Dutch units flow
to this shell company, one of hundreds the law firm handles on
Bermuda, which has no corporate income tax.  Also Serving Google  One of the three directors listed for Cisco’s Bermuda
subsidiary, a manager at Conyers Dill, is also a director for a
pair of units that helps cut the tax bills of another U.S.
technology company: Google. The search engine giant used
subsidiaries in Bermuda, the Netherlands and Ireland to cut $3.1
billion from its worldwide tax bill over three years, Bloomberg
News  reported  in October.  The benefits from Cisco’s foreign profits lopped 19.3
percentage points off its total tax rate last year. Bloomberg
calculated Cisco’s $7 billion tax savings since 2005 by applying
each year’s foreign tax benefit to pretax earnings as disclosed
in U.S. filings. Results were combined for all years after the
company restructured its overseas operations for tax reasons in
2004.  While tax strategies have boosted Cisco’s earnings, they
mean less revenue for governments in countries where the company
operates, a trend that may affect Cisco as well. The company is
seeing slowdowns in its business with cash-strapped governments,
Chambers said during a May 11 earnings call.  Historically, the public sector has made up 20 percent of
Cisco’s sales, Chambers said -- that’d be about $8 billion in
taxpayer-funded sales last year. “We do not underestimate the
transition in front of us,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Drucker in New York at 
 jdrucker4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 