-- 
Bill Clinton Seeks Private Initiatives to Boost U.S. Hiring

-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 
2011-06-28T23:35:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/bill-clinton-seeks-private-initiatives-to-boost-u-s-hiring.html
As President  Barack Obama  and
congressional leaders continue wrangling over deficits and debt,
former President  Bill Clinton  will be trying to round up new
ideas to spur job growth.  Clinton will welcome more than 700 business leaders,
politicians and nonprofit association executives to Chicago
tomorrow for a two-day meeting of the Clinton Global Initiative.
Among those scheduled to attend are Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour  and  Tony Hsieh ,
chief executive officer of Zappos.com Inc.  Private efforts to jump-start hiring are needed, Clinton
said in an hour-long conference call with reporters, because
political gridlock and Washington’s focus upon the  budget
deficit  mean that “it’s inconceivable to me there’ll be another
big government stimulus program any time soon.”  The former president said he hoped to discover ways to
unlock investment capital idling in U.S. banks or offshore.
Corporations hold $1.9 trillion in liquid assets; in 2007,
before the recession, that figure was $1.5 trillion.  “There’s more than enough there to start not just an
American recovery, but a global recovery,” he said.  Clinton acknowledged that amid weak private-sector demand,
there are limits to what can be done. “If there’s no demand for
loans and no demand for economic activity, we can’t create it.
But we can do better,” he said.  He said he wants to tap what he called “nascent demand”
by encouraging utilities to finance the retrofitting of schools
and other public buildings to make them more energy-efficient.
Every $1 billion spent on such projects would create 7,000 jobs,
he said.  ‘Make a Difference’  In 2005, the former president founded the  Clinton Global
Initiative  as a means of providing tangible remedies for the
world’s problems. The sessions require participants to promise
specific actions to “make a difference in others’ lives.” So
far, those attending the meetings have made more than 2,000
commitments affecting the lives of 300 million people in 180
countries, the organization says.  The Chicago conference represents the first time the
organization has held a meeting entirely focused upon the  United
States .  Detouring into politics, the former president said he would
be “surprised” if Obama were not re-elected, despite the 9.1
percent unemployment rate. No president since  Franklin Roosevelt 
has been re-elected with a rate above 7.2 percent.  “He can be re-elected, particularly if he’s opposed by
people whose only idea is to cut taxes and eviscerate the
government,” Clinton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in  Washington  at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  