-- 
Legg Mason’s Miller Sells Kodak Stake After Decade of Decline

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-06-28T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/bill-miller-dumps-kodak-at-a-551-million-loss-after-a-decade-of-decline.html
Bill Miller , who estimated a decade
ago that  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  was worth about $100 a share, sold
his flagship fund’s stake in the imaging company for a lot less.  Legg Mason Capital Management Value Trust (LMVTX) , run by Miller
since 1982, disclosed in a semi-annual report last week that the
fund sold 18.2 million Kodak shares late last year and during
this year’s first quarter for about $3.89 each on average. The
fund realized a $551 million loss through the divestiture,
according to the report.  Miller, 61, began loading up on Kodak shares in 2000 and,
by the end of 2005, his firm owned as much as 25 percent of the
Rochester, New York, company. Value Trust, one of several Legg
Mason funds and accounts to hold Kodak stock, kept the bulk of
its stake for more than a decade, only to sell after the film
company had lost more than 90 percent of its market value.  “Part of it was just this mentality that this was just a
temporary setback and Kodak would be able to get quickly back on
track,” said Bridget Hughes, an analyst at Morningstar Inc., a
Chicago-based stock and fund research firm. “It was not only a
mistake, it was also causing a lot of client angst.”  The $3.4 billion Value Trust has declined about 2.3 percent
this year, a performance that ranks it behind 94 percent of
rival funds that follow a similar strategy, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Miller and his colleague Sam Peters are
plowing more of the fund’s assets into companies with large
market capitalizations.  Large Cap Investor  Miller gained fame for beating the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index for a record 15 straight years through 2005, only to trail
the U.S. benchmark during the next three years as he invested in
beaten down banks and homebuilders. Miller outperformed peers in
2009 as the stock market rebounded.  During the six months ended April 30, Value Trust invested
in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Johnson & Johnson,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , and Chevron
Corp., according to the semi-annual report filed last week with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. At the same time,
the fund has been selling or reducing its holdings in companies
with smaller market values, including Amgen Inc., AES Corp. and
Kodak.  As a result, the average market value of companies held by
the fund rose about $30 billion during the six months ended
April 30 to $94 billion, the SEC filing shows. The moves also
left the Value Trust holding stocks with a lower price-to-
earnings ratio, about 9.9 times estimated earnings for 2012, the
filing said.  “They do see the best value in large cap and Kodak’s
market cap was inconsistent with that,” Mary Athridge, a Legg
Mason spokeswoman, said in an e-mail response to questions.  The Legg Mason Opportunity Trust, a smaller fund managed by
Miller, continued to hold 17.8 million Kodak shares as of March
31, according to regulatory data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Building a Company’  “Both the board and long term investors understand we are
building a new company and they know that this isn’t
accomplished overnight,” said Gerard Meuchner, a Kodak
spokesman, adding that Legg Mason remains one of the company’s
largest shareholders. “They also believe our strategy will
deliver sustainable profitable growth.”  Now valued at $923 million, Kodak was once much bigger,
ranking as the third-largest company in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index in June 1974 with a market capitalization of $17
billion, said  Howard Silverblatt , a senior index analyst at New
York-based S&P. After reaching a peak of $26.7 billion at the
end of 1996, the company’s market value began shrinking, and in
December Kodak was removed from the  S&P 500  along with the New
York Times Co., he said.  “It was a commentary to some degree on the newspaper and
film industries,” Silverblatt said in an interview. “That was
more of a macro change, looking at the way the economy has
shifted.”  Loyal Shareholder  Miller, the chief investment officer at Legg Mason Capital
Management Inc., began buying Kodak shares for Value Trust
during the second quarter of 2000. In a shareholder report for
the period, Miller said that concerns about the impact of
digital photography on the company’s film business were tempered
by continued growth in conventional camera sales and picture
taking.  “We think Kodak, currently selling around $56, is worth
close to $100,” Miller said in the report, adding that he
expected the company to generate free cash equal to almost half
of its market capitalization over the next five years.  By the end of 2005, Legg Mason funds and accounts owned a
combined 24.9 percent stake comprised of 71.5 million Kodak
shares, according to the film company’s annual proxy statement.
That included 23 million shares held by Value Trust.  Share Price Decline  Kodak shares closed at $3.43 yesterday, down from $66.25 at
the end of 1999. Revenue totaled $7.19 billion last year, down
from $14.3 billion in 2005, according to Bloomberg data.  The company is now competing with Hewlett-Packard Co. in
providing digital printing technology to consumers and
commercial enterprises, according to Mark Kaufman, an analyst at
Rafferty Capital Markets Inc. in  New York . Kaufman rates Kodak
shares a buy, citing the prospects for the new digital printers
as well as the company’s ability to continue churning out money,
even at reduced revenue levels.  “Their old film business, which everyone abhors and
denigrates, has been generating cash over the years
consistently,” Kaufman said in an interview. “The other big
cash generator has been their licensing fees from their patent
portfolio.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  