-- 
Blackstone Said to Name Kushaev as Adviser on Russian Deals

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-06-28T17:34:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/blackstone-said-to-name-dmitry-kushaev-as-adviser-on-russian-deals.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  named Dmitry
Kushaev a senior adviser in Russia, as the world’s largest
private-equity firm pushes into emerging markets, two people
familiar with the matter said.  Kushaev, a former managing partner of Moscow-based Marshall
Capital Partners, will assist Blackstone as it decides how to
invest in Russia, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because there hasn’t been a public announcement.  Blackstone, based in  New York , may invest in a new $10
billion fund promoted by Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev ,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Schwarzman  said in
an interview on June 17 at the St. Petersburg International
Economic Forum. Blackstone has yet to invest in Russia.  Blackstone declined to comment. Kushaev didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail message seeking comment.  Medvedev is setting up the fund to attract foreign
investment and diversify Russia’s economy, which is dependent on
oil, gas and metal exports. Representatives from Blackstone,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, and
others from the U.S., Europe, Asia and the  Middle East , came to
Russia to discuss the fund in May.  Rival TPG Capital, the only global private-equity firm with
a presence in Russia, has invested with VTB Capital, the
investment-banking arm of Russia’s second-biggest lender, in a
local supermarket chain, Lenta.  Blackstone, created in 1985 by Schwarzman and Peter G.
Peterson, has offices in 21 cities around the world, including
Dubai and Mumbai.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  