-- 
Blinder Says Wall Street May Be Underestimating Impact of Budget Impasse

-- B y   S a r a   E i s e n   a n d   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-28T19:25:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/blinder-says-wall-street-may-be-underestimating-impact-of-budget-impasse.html
The risk that lawmakers will fail to
reach an agreement on the U.S. debt ceiling may be
underestimated by financial-market participants, said  Alan Blinder , a former Federal Reserve vice chairman.  “I find too many market people,  Wall Street  people,
unconcerned, which tells me that if this actually happens, it’s
going to be like a cold slap in the face,” Blinder said today
in a Bloomberg Radio interview. “I don’t know what probability
to put on this. It’s not huge. It’s certainly way under 50
percent. But it’s not zero.”  Democrats and Republicans have been negotiating to find a
way to cut the long-term deficit and raise the nation’s debt
ceiling before the projected end of the government’s borrowing
ability on Aug. 2. Two major ratings companies -- Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  -- said that failure to
reach agreement could put the U.S. government’s top credit
rating in jeopardy.  “One of the worst ideas I’ve heard -- but this could
actually happen -- is they just raise the debt ceiling enough to
let this go another month and then we play it out again, and
again, and again,” Blinder said on “On the Economy” with
Michael McKee and Sara Eisen. “I don’t view that as a solution.
I view that as a horror show.”  In addition to debt concerns, a lagging housing market is
also weighing on the  U.S. economy . Property values in 20 U.S.
cities dropped 4 percent in the year ended in April, according
to the S&P/Case-Shiller index released today.  Blinder, 65, an economics professor at  Princeton University 
in  New Jersey , said that in the past three years the housing
industry hasn’t been producing enough homes to keep up with
 population growth , a development that could eventually lead to
an upturn in the housing market.  ‘Housing Boom’  “Eventually we’re going to get a housing boom out of
this,” Blinder said. ”It doesn’t look like it’s likely coming
soon, but maybe we’ll get a positive surprise on that.”  Blinder said that despite uncertainty surrounding the
economic recovery he doesn’t expect Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
to begin a third round of so-called quantitative easing. The Fed
said on June 22 that the central bank would complete $600
billion in bond-buying -- the second round, dubbed QE2 -- as
scheduled this month.  “The severe criticisms that QE2 took both from outside,
but also from inside the Fed, more or less assure us that
there’s not going to be a QE3 unless things really take a sharp
turn for the worse,” Blinder said. “With this kind of
muddling-through economy, there won’t be a QE3.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Berman in Washington at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  