-- 
Bovespa Gains Most in Four Months on Commodities Prices, Pao de Acucar

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-06-28T20:56:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/bovespa-stock-index-advances-on-commodities-prices-pao-de-acucar-rally.html
The Bovespa stock index gained the
most in more than four months as Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao
Grupo Pao de Acucar rallied after saying it plans a joint
venture with Carrefour SA, while a gain in commodities prices
sent producers higher.  Grupo Pao de Acucar jumped the most since 2008, closing at
a record. Miner Vale SA and oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA
followed metals and crude prices higher. Banks including Itau
Unibanco Holding SA climbed after a report showed credit
expanded at its fastest pace so far this year.  The Bovespa rose 1.8 percent to 62,303.37 at the close of
 Sao Paulo  trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time, the most since
Feb. 16. Fifty-five stocks climbed on the index, while 10 fell.
The real strengthened 1.2 percent to 1.5758 per  U.S. dollar .  “Some producers, like Vale, are trading at very cheap
prices when compared to foreign competitors, and are gaining
today with higher commodity prices,” said Joao Pedro Brugger,
who helps oversee 70 million reais ($44 million) at Leme
Investimentos in Florianopolis, Brazil. “The possible Pao de
Acucar deal with Carrefour also helped to send stocks higher, as
it signals that the retail industry is heating up and is
attracting the interest of many investors.”  Copper and oil prices rose amid optimism that the European
debt crisis will be contained, boosting growth prospects. The
UBS Bloomberg CMCI Index of 27 raw materials rose 1.6 percent,
the most in one month.  Vale gained 1 percent to 44.50 reais. Petrobras, as
Petroleo Brasileiro is known, gained 1.6 percent to 23.45.  Pao de Acucar  Carrefour received a proposal backed by the Brazilian
National Development Bank to merge its Brazilian assets with
those of Grupo Pao de Acucar, according to a statement released
today.  The combination was proposed by Gama, an investment fund
managed by Banco BTG Pactual SA. Gama would receive a capital
injection from the Brazilian National Development Bank of 2
billion euros ($2.9 billion) and debt financing for 500 million
euros under the plan, and become a shareholder in the Boulogne-
Billancourt, France-based company.  Grupo Pao de Acucar rose 13 percent to 73.25 reais, the
most since October 2008.  Itau Unibanco rose 3 percent to 36.05 reais, leading gains
by banks after a report showed credit in  Brazil  expanded in May
at its fastest pace so far this year.  Expanding Credit  Total outstanding credit rose 1.6 percent in May from
April, to 1.804 trillion reais, the central bank said in a
report distributed today in Brasilia. That’s the quickest pace
since December, when credit also expanded 1.6 percent. Total
credit rose 20.4 percent from a year ago.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge has lost 15 percent from a
November high on concern quickening inflation may hurt domestic
demand, while a slowdown in global economic growth could cut the
appetite for commodities.  The Bovespa trades at 9.8 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, the lowest since March 2009, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 12.8 for the
Shanghai Composite Index, 6.2 for  Russia ’s Micex and 14.9 for
 India ’s Sensex.  Traders moved 5.7 billion reais in stocks today, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares to a daily average
this year of 6.5 billion reais, according to data from the
exchange.  Investors pulled 1.48 billion reais from  Latin America ’s
largest equity market in the year through June 8, according to
the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  