-- 
Broadcasters’ Indecency Threat May Ease on High Court Review

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-06-28T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/broadcaster-fines-for-indecency-seen-easing-as-u-s-high-court-takes-case.html
The U.S. Supreme Court may loosen or
eliminate restrictions on indecent broadcasts as it decides if
regulators improperly penalized  News Corp. (NWS) ’s Fox and  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) ’s ABC for shows involving foul language and nudity.  The justices yesterday said they will consider whether the
Federal Communications Commission’s indecency policy, which
calls for fines of up to $325,000, violates First Amendment
guarantees of free speech. The case stems from expletives
uttered on two Fox network award shows and from a scene with a
naked woman on ABC’s “NYPD Blue.”  “The commission’s ability to continue to regulate in this
area at all is clearly on the line,”  Harry Cole , an Arlington,
Virginia-based broadcast lawyer with Fletcher, Heald & Hildreth,
said in an interview. The case calls into question “the FCC’s
ability to regulate indecency -- that is, dirty language -- on
any broadcast station, TV or radio” as well as nudity, Cole
said.  In another free-speech case, the court yesterday struck
down a California law prohibiting sales of violent video games
to minors. On a 7-2 vote the justices rejected the state’s
contention that violent games are akin to sexual materials,
which the government can restrict to protect children.  Parents Television Council , which lobbies against what the
group considers to be indecent programming, is glad the  Supreme
Court  took up the FCC case because it may correct “woefully
misguided” lower-court rulings, Tim Winter, president of the
Los Angeles-based group, said in an interview.  FCC Backlog  Affirmation of the FCC’s position by the high court could
clear the way for the agency to consider more than 1 million
indecency complaints lodged in recent years and not acted upon
as courts consider the law, Winter said.  A backlog of broadcast indecency complaints had reached 1.4
million before “a portion” were dismissed for having been
“defective on their face,” FCC Commissioner Robert McDowell, a
Republican on the Democrat-led body, told Congress on May 13.  The Supreme Court review follows an appeals court ruling
that the FCC’s indecency policy was unconstitutionally vague.
The FCC wants the court to affirm its “exercise of its
statutory responsibility to protect children and families,”
Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, said in an e-mail yesterday.  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox and Walt Disney Co.’s ABC say the court
should overturn decades-old rulings that give the FCC more
authority to regulate programming on broadcast stations than on
cable or satellite networks.  First Amendment  “We are hopeful that the court will ultimately agree that
the FCC’s indecency enforcement practices trample on the First
Amendment rights of broadcasters,”  Scott Grogin , a Fox
spokesman, said in an interview.  “The FCC’s current indecency enforcement policies are
unconstitutional” and the episode of NYPD Blue was not
indecent, Julie Hoover, a spokeswoman for ABC, said in an
interview.  The  National Association of Broadcasters  “supports a
constitutional review” of the FCC’s rules,  Dennis Wharton , a
spokesman for the Washington-based trade group, said in an e-mail. Members include ABC, Fox,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and  CBS
Corp. (CBS) ’s CBS network.  “Responsible programming decisions” and technologies such
as the violence-blocking V-chip in TV sets “are far preferable
to government regulation of program content,” said Wharton.  The justices will consider the FCC case in the term that
starts in October.  Seven Dirty Words  One of the Supreme Court rulings under attack is a 1978
decision that said the FCC could take action against a radio
station for airing comedian George Carlin’s “Seven Dirty
Words” monologue during the afternoon. The court said FCC
regulation was warranted because broadcast television and radio
had a “uniquely pervasive presence in the lives of all
Americans” and were “uniquely accessible to children.”  The case centers on First Amendment issues that the high
court opted not to resolve when it temporarily revived the FCC’s
anti-expletive policy in a 2009 ruling. Justices in both the
majority and dissent in that case pointed to free-speech
concerns about the crackdown.  The 2009 decision stemmed from an agency crackdown on
broadcasters after celebrities used vulgar language on three
live awards shows in 2002 and 2003. Regulators said in 2004 that
for the first time they would punish broadcasters for so-called
fleeting expletives.  Nicole Richie  Two of the incidents involved Fox. In one, at the 2002
Billboard Music Awards, Cher referred to critics of her work by
saying, “F--- ‘em. I still have a job and they don’t.”  Nicole Richie  used expletives as a presenter on the same
show a year later. “Have you ever tried to get cow s--- out of
a Prada purse?” she said. “It’s not so f---ing simple.”  The FCC concluded that the broadcasts violated its
indecency regulations, though the agency said it wouldn’t impose
a fine because the incidents took place before the change in
policy. Federal law lets the FCC impose fines of $325,000 on
each station that airs indecent material between 6 a.m. and 10
p.m.  The 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in  New York  said last
year that the FCC had been inconsistent in the way it applied
its rules. The panel pointed to the FCC’s decision not to take
action over ABC’s airing of “Saving Private Ryan,” a movie
that repeatedly uses the same words.  In the “NYPD Blue” case, the FCC is attempting to impose
penalties totaling $1.2 million on more than 40 ABC-affiliated
stations. The disputed episode showed a woman’s buttocks while
she was in the bathroom and then, when a young boy inadvertently
walked in, a frontal view as she covered her breasts and pubic
area.  The 2nd Circuit voided the ABC fine in a separate ruling in
January.  The case is Federal Communications Commission v. Fox
Television Stations, 10-1293.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  