-- 
Bulger’s Old Indictment Dropped to Focus on Racketeering Murder Conspiracy

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-06-28T17:25:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/bulger-s-old-indictment-dropped-to-focus-on-racketeering-murder-conspiracy.html
Federal prosecutors dropped older
charges against accused  Boston  gangster James “Whitey” Bulger
so they can focus on “more serious” charges of murder and
racketeering.  U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz in Boston won’t pursue a 1994
indictment of Bulger for extortion and instead will focus on
accusations made in 1999 that he participated in 19 murders,
according to a court filing. Bulger, 81, would spend the rest of
his life in prison if convicted in connection with any murders
with a predicate act of racketeering, Ortiz said in the filing.  The evidence in the newer case is stronger while the older
one weakened during the 16 years Bulger was on the run from
authorities, Ortiz said, noting that at least two key witnesses
have died.  “The U.S. attorney has determined that it is in the public
interest to focus her prosecutorial resources on pursuing the
most serious charges and the most provable case against the
defendant,” Ortiz wrote.  Bulger and his girlfriend, Catherine Greig, 60, were
arrested last week after the  Federal Bureau of Investigation ,
acting on a tip, lured the fugitive out of a  Santa Monica ,
 California , apartment.  In addition to the murders, Bulger was wanted for crimes
including extortion, loan sharking, bookmaking and drug
trafficking. He was one of the FBI’s Top 10 most-wanted
fugitives. The bureau offered a $2 million reward for
information leading to his capture.  The older case is U.S. v. DeLuca, 94-cr-10287, U.S.
District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston). The newer
case is U.S. v. Weeks, 99-cr-10371, U.S. District Court,
District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawren@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  