-- 
BYD Slumps as Profit of Buffett-Backed Automaker Declines

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-29T08:53:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/byd-co-reports-84-decline-in-first-quarter-net-income.html
BYD Co., the Chinese carmaker part-
owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., tumbled the
most in more than three months in Hong Kong trading after
reporting an 84 percent decline in first-quarter profit.  The Shenzhen-based company fell as much as 7 percent, after
declining sales and a jump in financing expenses dragged first-
quarter net income to 266.7 million yuan ($41 million) from 1.7
billion yuan a year earlier.  BYD’s vehicle sales declined for 10 straight months through
May as demand slowed and rival carmakers including General
Motors Co. and Nissan Motor Co. introduced new models. The
company’s F3 sedan, introduced in 2005, fell to fourth from
first in the rankings of China’s best-selling cars this year,
prompting BYD to cut prices for its line-up in February.  “What BYD needs is a new product or a revamp of the F3,”
said Johnny Wong, a Hong Kong-based auto analyst at Yuanta
Securities HK Co. “They didn’t have many new models coming out
in the first half of the year, and people are more attracted to
newer models.”  The stock fell 5 percent to HK$23.80 at the 4 p.m. close,
the biggest decline since March 17. The benchmark Hang Seng
Index was little changed.  BYD sold 97,300 F3 sedans in the first five months, 30
percent fewer than a year earlier. That makes it the fourth-best
selling model after Volkswagen AG’s Lavida and Jetta and GM’s
Excelle, according to the  China  Association of Automobile
Manufacturers.  Interest-Rate Increases  Finance expenses more than doubled in the first quarter to
118 million yuan because of increased borrowing and rising
interest costs, BYD said. The company’s earnings are based on
Chinese accounting standards.  China’s central bank raised  interest rates  four times
starting in October and boosted banks’ reserve requirements nine
times since November to stem rising consumer prices.  The automaker raised 1.35 billion yuan from a share sale in
Shenzhen this month to fund expansion and invest in research and
development. The stock will start trading in Shenzhen on June
30, the company said in a separate statement yesterday.  BYD’s Hong Kong-traded stock has plunged 42 percent this
year, compared with the 4.2 percent drop in the  Hang Seng Index .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net 
undefined 