-- 
Cable & Wireless Worldwide Profit to Miss Estimates; CEO Marsh Steps Down

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-06-28T08:12:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/cable-wireless-worldwide-profit-to-miss-estimates-ceo-marsh-steps-down.html
Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/) ,
which provides telecommunications services to the U.K. police
force, said full-year profit will miss estimates because of
slower-than-expected sales orders. Chief Executive Officer Jim Marsh resigned.  The stock dropped the most since July 2010 in  London 
trading. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will be 5 percent to 10 percent “below current
market expectations” in the 12 months through March, the
company said today. The company will bolster investments in its
hosting and cloud offerings and cut its dividend by half to 2.25
pence a share.  Cable & Wireless  Worldwide, which separated from its parent
company last year, is revamping its business to expand new
services to make up for slowing sales in its traditional cable
network business. In March, the London-based company said Tim Weller, its chief financial officer, would be leaving the
company in July. The same month it predicted the next financial
year’s gross margins in its legacy voice business will decline
more than the 10 percent previously forecast.  “Is there anybody left to turn the lights out? Three
profit warnings, a halved dividend and departures of CEO, CFO
and head of  investor relations ,”  Mark James , an analyst at
 Liberum Capital , said in an e-mail. “Cable & Wireless remains a
core ‘sell’ idea for us.”  ‘More Radical Approach’  Cable & Wireless shares slumped as much as 17 percent, and
were down 16.4 percent as of 8:50 a.m. in London, cutting the
company’s market value to 1.2 billion pounds ($1.9 billion).  Chairman John Pluthero has taken over the CEO role,
replacing Marsh, and John Barton was named chairman, the company
said today.  “It has been a very difficult 12 months and it is now
important that we take the necessary steps to ensure the future
growth of our business,” Pluthero said in the statement, adding
that he will take “a more radical approach” to build on
hosting, cloud and data services.  Cable & Wireless Worldwide on June 21 said it “considered
and rejected” an approach for its global business division. The
Financial Times reported on June 19 that Pacnet Ltd., a
telecommunications group based in  Hong Kong  and  Singapore , made
an informal offer of $500 million for C&W’s overseas businesses.  “The potential remains for a doubling of value as a more
radical approach is taken to the business, or as the management-
related issues prompt bid interest for which the underlying
asset values will become more relevant for the valuation,”
Investec Securities analysts Morten Singleton and James Goodman
said in a note to clients today. “We would be buying into any
weakness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  