-- 
California Budget Pact Anticipates $4 Billion in New Revenue

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-06-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/california-budget-deal-needs-4-billion-new-revenue-no-republican-votes.html
California lawmakers are to begin
voting today on a budget that relies on $4 billion in newly
projected revenue, needs only Democratic votes to pass and would
set up a 2012 referendum on tax increases.  Governor  Jerry Brown  said he’ll allow more than $9 billion
in higher taxes and fees, the linchpin of his budget math since
January, to expire June 30. He’ll balance the budget of the
most-populous state with the revenue forecast and additional
cuts to universities and the courts.  The spending plan for the year starting July 1 bypasses
Republicans who stymied the governor’s plans for a statewide
vote on extending the taxes. It also steers away from a
Democratic blueprint that Brown vetoed for what he said were
legally questionable accounting maneuvers.  “We’ve had some tough discussions, but I can tell you that
the Democrats in both the Senate and the Assembly have now
joined with the administration and myself and we have a very
good plan going forward with the budget,” Brown said at a news
conference in  Sacramento  yesterday.  Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat, took office on a pledge to
fix the fiscal malfunctions that have left California with the
lowest credit rating of any state from  Standard & Poor’s . The
Golden State, which accounts for 13 percent of the U.S. gross
domestic product, began the year with a $26 billion deficit.
Since then, spending cuts approved in March and better-than-
projected tax revenue shrank the gap to $10 billion.  Brown’s new plan counts on revenue that his budget office
said will be $5.2 billion above its May projection, of which
$1.2 billion has already been collected. Spending cuts of $2.5
billion would be triggered if the money doesn’t materialize.  Prioritized Cuts  Those cuts would be prioritized so that the biggest, about
$1.5 billion in reductions to schools, would happen only if the
shortfall is $2 billion or more.  The agreement reduces the chances that  California  will
resort to issuing IOUs to pay bills as it did in 2009, said
Gabriel Petek, a Standard & Poor’s analyst. Controller John Chiang warned in May that the state could run out of money by
July without a budget agreement in place.  “To the extent that it allows the state to continue its
cash-flow borrowing, it would take some pressure off the
rating,” Petek said by phone yesterday from his office in  San
Francisco . “It seems to be beneficial for the short-term
borrowing, but it probably doesn’t make a lot of progress on the
multi-year structural deficit.”  Brown said the revised budget doesn’t deal with the “wall
of debt” that he said has built up over the years due to
accounting maneuvers.  Sales-Tax Drops  With some taxes and fees expiring, California’s retail
sales-tax  rate  will drop 1 percentage point to 7.25 percent,
still the highest statewide levy in the country. Vehicle
registrations will decline 0.5 percentage point to 0.65 percent
of value.  The budget counts on an additional $200 million under
legislation requiring sales-tax collections by online retailers
including  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  for purchases by state residents.
Amazon, the world’s largest online retailer, has threatened to
sever ties with more than 10,000 affiliates in California over
the proposal.  Lawmakers Forfeit Pay  Lawmakers have been forced to forfeit pay for every day
they fail to send a balanced budget to the governor past a June
15 deadline.  Assembly Speaker John Perez, a Los Angeles Democrat, said
that while Republicans thwarted Brown’s plan to put the tax
extensions on a statewide ballot this year, the notion remains
alive.  “The conversation has been started, and we will keep that
conversation going as we move to the ballot next year,” Perez
said.  The referendum would be in November 2012 on the same ballot
as the U.S. presidential race. Such timing may bring out
Democrats sympathetic to higher taxes, said  Mark Baldassare ,
president of the nonpartisan Public Policy Institute of
California.  “It’s always a hard sell to ask voters to support tax
increases,” Baldassare said by phone from San Francisco.  Senate Republican Leader Bob Dutton said the Democratic
proposal “does absolutely nothing to change government as
usual.”  “The Democrats have said no to all of the Republican
reforms that Californians are demanding, including pension
reform, a spending cap and job creation,” Dutton, of Rancho
Cucamonga, said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  