-- 
Canada’s Currency Advances for Second Day on Gains in Equities, Crude Oil

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-06-28T21:01:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/canada-s-dollar-trades-at-almost-three-month-low-as-equity-futures-decline.html
Canada ’s dollar rose for a second
day versus its U.S. counterpart, reversing a drop, after global
stocks and raw materials including crude oil rose on speculation
 Greece  will adopt an austerity package to avoid default.  The gain trimmed the currency’s loss for June to 1.3
percent in what would be the second straight monthly decrease.
The greenback fell against all but two of its 16 most-traded
counterparts today, the Swedish krona and the yen, amid demand
for higher-yielding assets. The Canadian dollar touched a 12-
year low versus the Swiss franc.  “I still don’t see the reason yet to get all bearish about
the global economy,”  David Watt , senior currency strategist at
the RBC Capital Markets unit of Royal Bank of Canada, the
nation’s biggest bank, said by phone from Toronto. “We haven’t
changed our forecast” for the Canadian currency, which is 94
cents per  U.S. dollar  by the end of the third quarter, he said.  The Canadian dollar appreciated 0.5 percent to 98.12 cents
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with 98.61 cents
yesterday and 96.85 cents at the end of May. It slipped
yesterday to 99.13 cents, the lowest level since March 17. One
Canadian dollar purchases $1.0192.  The franc reached 84.12 centimes per Canadian dollar, the
strongest since October 1998, before trading at 84.78.  The euro gained against most of its major peers on
speculation Greece’s parliament will approve a package of budget
cuts and asset sales required to ensure more financial aid.  Crude Climbs  Crude oil for August delivery increased 2.8 percent to
$93.14 a barrel in  New York , and the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies
CRB Index of raw materials increased for the first time in five
days, gaining 1.7 percent. Raw materials account for half of
Canada’s export revenue, and crude is the nation’s biggest
export.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.3 percent in a
second daily advance.  Greek lawmakers  vote  tomorrow on the austerity plan and
vote later on a measure implementing it.  Germany ’s biggest banks
and insurers will meet with the nation’s  Finance Ministry  in
Berlin tomorrow as they seek to reach an agreement on their role
in a Greek aid package, according to two people with knowledge
of the matter.  Switzerland ’s currency is “attractive in this
environment” for inter-European diversification and because of
the nation’s relatively sound fiscal and debt positions,
according to  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank
of Nova Scotia in Toronto.  ‘Scrambling’ for Franc  “Everyone has been scrambling to get long the Swiss franc
against anything and everything,” Sutton said via e-mail. “The
Canadian dollar has turned into a solid, low-beta currency,
making the cross a relatively safe way to get Swiss franc
exposure.” A long position is a bet a currency will appreciate.
A low-beta currency is one that’s relatively insulated from
fluctuations in market volatility.  Government bonds  tumbled, pushing the yield on Canada’s
benchmark 10-year note up eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage
point, to 2.99 percent. It fell to as low as 2.84 percent
yesterday, the least since November. The 3.25 percent security
due in June 2021 slid 72 cents to C$102.25.  Canada’s dollar is the second-worst performer after the
Swedish krona this quarter among the greenback’s 16 most-traded
peers. Crude oil futures, which touched $114.83 a barrel in New
York in May, dropped yesterday to a four-month low of $89.61.  “Weaker oil levels, while a hit on the Canadian dollar,
also ensure a recovery in U.S. consumption and will therefore be
a boon down the road,” said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-
exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London .  Canada ships about three quarters of its exports to the
U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  