-- 
Canadian Stocks Gain on Optimism About Solution for Greek Crisis

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-06-28T20:33:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/canadian-stocks-gain-on-optimism-about-solution-for-greek-crisis.html
Canadian stocks rose for a second
day as energy producers and bank shares gained amid optimism
that a deal can be reached to help Greece avoid defaulting on
its debt.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) ,  Canada ’s largest oil and gas producer,
advanced 1.5 percent as oil futures jumped.  Royal Bank of
Canada (RY) , the country’s biggest bank, and  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) 
increased at least 0.8 percent as financial stocks rallied.
 Westport Innovations Inc. (WPT)  soared 11 percent after General Motors
Co. agreed to work on projects with the developer of natural-gas
engine technologies.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index rose 138.49
points, or 1.1 percent, to 13,104.98 at 4 p.m. in Toronto.  “Everyone’s thinking of Greece and there’s a little bit of
optimism today as we wait for the vote tomorrow,” said  Irwin Michael , who helps manage C$1 billion ($1 billion) as a money
manager at  ABC Group  of Funds in Toronto. “Greece has to be
repaired and put on the right track because you got other
problematic countries that are being watched very closely.”  The S&P/TSX broke a three-week losing streak last week as
investors speculated Greece will be able to enact austerity
measures and avoid default. Greek lawmakers are in the midst of
a debate this week to approve an austerity package needed for
the release of the next phase of an international bailout.  Germany’s biggest banks and insurers will meet with the
 Finance Ministry  in Berlin tomorrow as they seek to reach an
agreement on their contribution to a Greek aid package, two
people with knowledge of the matter said. A preliminary deal may
be reached as early as tomorrow, they said. Greek Prime Minister
George Papandreou’s 78 billion euro ($111 billion) plan to cut
spending and sell assets is set for a vote in parliament
tomorrow.  Energy Stocks Rally  S&P/TSX energy stocks rallied 1.6 percent, the second-most
among ten groups in the benchmark index for Canadian equities.
Suncor advanced 1.5 percent to C$37.52.  Canadian Natural
Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the country’s second-biggest energy company by
market value, increased 3 percent to C$39.44. Industrial
companies rose the most S&P/TSX Composite Index.  Oil rose from a four-month low amid speculation that Greek
lawmakers will approve austerity measures to prevent a default
on the country’s debt and on forecasts U.S. fuel demand will
rise before the Fourth of July holiday. The U.S. Independence
Day weekend typically marks the peak consumption period for U.S.
motorists.  Banks Gain  The S&P/TSX Financials Index, the largest part of the
S&P/TSX Composite, gained 0.5 percent. Royal Bank of Canada rose
1.1 percent to C$54.49. Toronto-Dominion Bank, Canada’s second-
largest lender by assets, increased 0.8 percent to C$80.26.  Westport Innovations surged 11 percent to C$23.55 after
agreeing with GM to develop natural gas controls, emissions and
performance strategies. Westport will also open a new technical
center in Michigan.  Stocks rose in Canada even after a report that confidence
among U.S. consumers dropped to a seven-month low in June as
Americans grew concerned about the outlook for jobs and wages.
The Conference Board’s sentiment index decreased to 58.5 from a
revised 61.7 in May.  Home prices  fell in the year ended in April
by the most in 17 months, another report showed.  “Everyone is betting on  Europe  finding a resolution for
the  Greece ,” said Ken Mack, an analyst and trader at Stone
Asset Management in Toronto, which oversees about C$850 million.
“The U.S. put out a consumer confidence number that was lower
than expected and the market shrugged it off. It’s very day to
day, the optimism comes and goes and today it’s up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  