-- 
Investor Carl Icahn Sues for Access to Forest’s Records on CEO Complaint

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-28T18:10:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/carl-icahn-s-high-river-partnership-sues-for-access-to-forest-labs-records.html
High River LP, a firm controlled by
billionaire  Carl Icahn , sued Forest Laboratories Inc. seeking
details on a U.S. proposal to bar the company and Chief
Executive Officer Howard Solomon from doing business with
federal health programs.  Shareholders have a right to know what Solomon did or
failed to do to warrant such an “unprecedented” action by the
government, lawyers for High River said in the complaint filed
today in  Delaware  Chancery Court.  “The company’s public disclosures about this affair have
been opaque, inaccurate and seemingly designed to reveal the
least possible information,” High River said in the complaint.
“The stockholders have not even been informed of the factual
charges against Mr. Solomon.”  Forest said in April that it would contest plans by the
Health and Human Services Department’s Office of the Inspector
General to bar it from U.S. programs. The action follows the
company’s guilty plea and $313 million settlement last year for
distributing its Levothroid drug before it was approved by the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration.  Icahn’s claims are “entirely without merit,” Forest Labs
said in an e-mail sent by outside spokesman Hugh Burns.  “The company previously has disclosed the sole basis of
the HHS-OIG action against Mr. Solomon, which is that he is
‘associated with’ Forest,” the company said in the statement.
“Mr. Solomon has never been accused of any wrongdoing in
connection with the matters settled by the company in 2010.”  ‘Dramatically Reduced’  The company’s plan to challenge any exclusion is a “high
risk strategy,” High River said in the complaint.  “If Forest Laboratories is prohibited from participating
in federal health-care programs due to Mr. Solomon’s presence at
the company, the company’s revenues will be dramatically
reduced,” lawyers for Icahn affiliate said.  Forest stands by its decision to support Solomon, the
company said in its statement today.  “But whatever the outcome, the company will take
appropriate steps to make sure it is not precluded from
participation in federal health-care programs,” the company
said in the e-mail sent by Burns.  High River and four other Icahn entities, which together
own 6.9 percent of Forest, are seeking access to the letter that
regulators sent the company in April. The group also wants any
documents indicating the company was aware of a possible
sanction against Solomon before April 12.  Icahn intends to use the information to support the
election of directors, according to the complaint. Earlier this
month, Forest said High River would nominate four candidates to
the nine-member board.  The case is High River Limited Partnership v.  Forest
Laboratories Inc. (FRX) , CA6614, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 