-- 
Carrefour Offer From Top Brazil Retailer Draws Threat From France’s Casino

-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r   a n d   S t e p h e n   T a y l o r
-- 
2011-06-28T16:20:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/carrefour-receives-proposal-to-merge-brazilian-assets-with-pao-de-acucar.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , the world’s second-
largest retailer, is considering a proposal to merge its
Brazilian assets with those of Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao
Grupo Pao de Acucar, setting up a power struggle with French
rival  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA. (CO)   The combination, which would give Carrefour control of
Brazil’s largest retailer, was proposed by Gama, an investment
fund managed by Banco BTG Pactual SA. Gama would become the
biggest shareholder in Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based
Carrefour with an 11.7 percent stake, which may increase to as
much as 17.7 percent, according to a statement released today.  Casino, which jointly controls Pao de Acucar with the Diniz
family, said the plan violates a 2005 agreement with Abilio Diniz for it to become the sole controlling shareholder in 2012.
Casino bought 24 percent of the supermarket chain in 1999 for
$1.1 billion and paid $860 million for another 11.6 percent in
2005. It raised the stake again last week to 37 percent,
strengthening its position after discovering its partner held
talks with Carrefour, two people familiar with the matter said
in May. Today’s proposal is a “long-standing illegal planned
financial transaction,” Casino said in a statement.  “The battle is likely to be very bloody,”  James Grzinic ,
an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in  London , said in a
note to clients. “The legal opposition from a ‘wronged’ Casino
could pose a meaningful obstacle.”  ‘Hostile’ Proposal  Casino, which gets a quarter of sales from  Latin America ,
said the interests of its shareholders “seem threatened” by
Gama’s proposal, which it called “hostile.” Brazil is among
the emerging countries that are helping offset falling earnings
in the Saint-Etienne, France-based company’s domestic business.  The planned transaction won’t be completed without Casino’s
approval, said Percio de Souza, a partner at Estater Gestao e
Financas, which advised on the deal, in  Sao Paulo  today.  Abilio Diniz said he will evaluate the merger plan with
Casino. A final decision will respect the law and the Pao de
Acucar shareholder agreement, he said in an e-mailed statement.  Carrefour hired Lazard Ltd. to study a merger between its
Brazilian unit and Pao de Acucar, Journal du Dimanche reported
in May, without saying where it got the information.  Capital Injection  Carrefour said its board will review Gama’s plan in coming
days. Under the proposal, Gama would receive a capital injection
from the Brazilian National Development Bank of 2 billion euros
($2.9 billion) and debt financing for 500 million euros.  The deal would create a company with combined 2011 revenue
of more than 30 billion euros and save about 700 million euros a
year, Gama said.  Brazil  is the second-largest contributor to
sales for Carrefour after  France .  “The industrial logic is compelling,” said Grzinic. “The
development is a positive for Carrefour, and may well trigger
outright approaches for Latin American operations.”  Carrefour rose 99 cents, or 3.7 percent, to 27.44 euros at
the close of Paris trading. The stock has slid 11 percent this
year. Casino fell 3.7 euros, or 5.6 percent, to 62.2 euros. Pao
de Acucar preferred shares rose as much as 5.5 percent to 68.59
reais in Sao Paulo trading.  The proposed merger would be reviewed by local regulators
together with other recent acquisitions by Pao de Acucar, the
president of Brazil’s antitrust agency said.  Antitrust Regulator  The antitrust regulator must assess the impact of the
planned deal jointly with Pao de Acucar’s acquisition of Casa
Bahia Comercial Ltda and Globex Utilidades SA, Fernando de Magalhaes Furlan said in a telephone interview from Brasilia.  Grzinic at Jefferies said regulatory risk may be less than
expected. “Local authorities may have already given their
implicit approval to the transaction,” he wrote.  Under the plan, Gama would initially get two seats on
Carrefour’s board and a third in 2013, Carrefour said. The fund
would act in concert with a shareholder group that includes Blue
Capital SARL, according to the French retailer.  Brazil’s state development bank would have an 18 percent
stake in the merged business, said de Souza. Banco BTG Pactual,
a Brazilian investment bank controlled by billionaire  Andre Esteves , would have a 3.2 percent stake in the company that will
be created, he said. Esteves bought Pactual from UBS AG in 2009.  “For Carrefour, it’s a sensible transaction,” said Chris Hogbin, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein who has a “neutral”
recommendation on the stock. “What they give up is some control
over their strategy.” Hogbin estimates that Carrefour would
effectively be paying 2 billion euros in equity.  Carrefour’s stock tumbled on June 17 after the company said
that first-half results in France were below management
expectations, marking the third profit revision since November.
Chief Executive Officer Lars Olofsson said last week that he
would look at all options to strengthen the company’s position
in markets such as Brazil,  China  and  Indonesia .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Taylor at 
 staylor8@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Mulier at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  