-- 
Chile May Hold Back on Bond Sale Amid European Debt Crisis, Larrain Says

-- B y   J a m e s   A t t w o o d   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-06-28T20:11:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/chile-may-hold-back-on-bond-sale-amid-european-debt-crisis-larrain-says.html
Chile ’s government may wait until
next year or even 2013 to sell bonds overseas as European
leaders struggle to contain the Greek debt crisis, Finance
Minister Felipe Larrain said.  “It may be this year, but we haven’t ruled out postponing
it, depending on the situation of the markets,” Larrain said in
an interview in  London  today. “We don’t know exactly what will
happen with the situation in Europe, which is creating some
volatility in the markets.”  The  Finance Ministry  is “seriously exploring” a possible
$1.5 billion sale of bonds in U.S. dollars and pesos with 10-
year maturities, Larrain said. The ministry in July sold $1
billion in dollar bonds abroad at 3.89 percent, the lowest yield
in the country’s history, as well as $520 million of peso bonds,
the first such sale. Larrain said he expected “even better”
conditions for the next bond sale.  Greek lawmakers vote tomorrow on a package that’s needed
before the cash-strapped nation can tap a fifth loan payment
from last year’s 110 billion-euro ($157 billion) rescue. Failure
to pass the government’s 78 billion-euro plan may lead to the
euro area’s first sovereign default. While Chile has to consider
the “contagion effect” from  Europe , it “won’t be derailed”
because the region makes up about 18 percent of its exports,
while about half go to  Asia , Larrain said.  ‘Delivering’  Chile’s Finance Ministry last year registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to issue $3 billion of bonds
to create a benchmark for local companies.  Investors still have an appetite for the nation’s bonds as
the central bank estimates the economy in 2011 could expand as
much as 7 percent, which would be its fastest pace of growth in
over a decade, Larrain said.  The government is exceeding campaign promises to grow an
average 6 percent annually, which is about double the pace of
the previous administration that left office in March 2010, he
said. Chile’s gross domestic product could expand as much as 6.5
percent in 2011, surpassing the ministry’s official estimate of
6.1 percent growth, Larrain said.  “We are clearly delivering on our promises,” he said.
“We deliver on our promises to investors who invest in Chilean
bonds and look at the Chilean economy and know that the
institutions work in Chile and that we are a serious country and
a well managed economy.”  Swaps  The cost of insuring Chilean bonds against default for five
years was 77 basis points yesterday, the lowest among major
Latin American economies tracked by Bloomberg.  By comparison, five-year credit-default swaps on the
region’s two biggest economies,  Brazil  and  Mexico , stood at 119
basis points and 115 basis points respectively. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to comply with debt agreements.  Chile’s swaps have increased by 10 basis points from the
end of May as part of an overall market trend, with Brazil and
Mexico rising by 14 basis points and 13 basis points over the
same period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The peso was little changed at 472.83 per dollar at 1:04
p.m. New York time from 473.02 yesterday.  La Polar, ‘Huaso’ Bonds  The minister downplayed the impact of retailer  Empresas La
Polar SA (LAPOLAR) ’s June 9 notice of irregular lending practices on
Chile’s risk profile. Authorities have opened an investigation
into alleged consumer-lending fraud and are probing possible
instances of  insider trading  in the case.  “I’m not saying it’s not an issue,” Larrain said about La
Polar. “This is a case of fraud, and frauds happen. The best
security system will not be immune to theft.”  Chile also may see an increase in so-called “huaso” bond
sales in 2011 as part of a government plan to increase the depth
and liquidity of the country’s capital markets, Larrain said.  Authorities this year relaxed rules for foreign governments,
companies and multilateral banks that want to issue the peso-
denominated bonds in Chile. Three peso-denominated bonds,
totaling less than $500 million, have been issued by foreigners
since they were allowed to do so in 2006.  Companies based in emerging markets are most likely to
issue huaso bonds, which are named after the Chilean term for
cowboy, Larrain said. The Finance Ministry in May conducted a
five-day promotional tour for huaso bonds with about 60
companies in  Latin America , attracting “a lot” of expressions
of interest, Larrain said.  Raising money in Chile might be cheaper for some companies
than issuing debt in their home countries of Brazil,  Colombia ,
 Peru  and possibly Mexico, the minister said.  “We are competitive for companies,” he said. “We have
lower  interest rates , better conditions, and institutional
investors in our economy which will probably be able to absorb
part of this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Attwood in London at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Randy Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  