-- 
China Auctions First Shale-Gas Blocks to Domestic Companies, Xinhua Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-28T08:51:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/china-auctions-first-shale-gas-blocks-to-domestic-companies-xinhua-says.html
China offered its first four shale-
gas blocks to domestic developers in an auction yesterday, the
official  Xinhua News Agency  reported, without citing anyone.  Companies including PetroChina Co.,  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. (386) ,  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , Shaanxi Yanchang Petroleum Group
Co., China United Coalbed Methane Co. and Henan Provincial Coal
Seam Gas Development and Utilization Co. placed bids for the
blocks in Guizhou and Chongqing, in the southwest of the
country, Xinhua reported.  The government originally planned to hold the auction in
November 2010, Zhang Dawei, deputy director of oil and gas
strategy research at the Ministry of Land and Resources, said at
a conference last year. Zhang didn’t respond to calls to his
office and mobile phone today.  China has as much as 1,275 trillion cubic feet of
“technically recoverable” shale gas reserves, or 48 percent
more than the U.S., according to an estimate by the U.S. Energy
Information Administration on April 5.  China ’s deposits of the
fuel may be 12 times higher than conventional natural gas, the
EIA said.  The government aims to triple the use of gas to about 10
percent of energy consumption by 2020, reducing reliance on more
polluting coal. It’s drafting a plan to develop domestic shale
reserves in the five-year period ending 2015, Yang Lei, director
of oil and natural gas at the National Energy Administration,
said in Beijing on June 21.  China completed its first horizontal shale gas well in
March after 11 months of drilling, according to PetroChina’s
parent, China National Petroleum Corp.  CNPC and Royal Dutch Shell Plc are currently exploring the
Jinqiu shale-gas block in southwestern Sichuan province. Shell
and PetroChina are operating the Changbei tight-gas field in the
Ordos Basin in northern Shaanxi province and exploring the
Fushun-Yongchuan block in Sichuan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 