-- 
Lagarde Named First Female IMF Head

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-06-28T21:30:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/christine-lagarde-set-to-be-named-imf-chief-as-u-s-russia-offer-support.html
Christine Lagarde  was named the
first female head of the  International Monetary Fund  to take on
Europe’s debt crisis and balance the demands of fast-growing
emerging nations with the needs of a recovering developed world.  Lagarde, 55, currently France’s finance minister, will
begin July 5, the Washington-based fund said today. She won the
job over Mexican central bank governor Agustin Carstens after
gaining a reputation as a skilled negotiator during the
financial crisis within both the Group of 20 and the European
Union as it provided bailouts for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal .  Steering support for those countries and nurturing their
economies will remain one of Lagarde’s biggest challenges as she
moves from Paris to Washington to begin her five-year term as
the IMF’s 11th leader. She’ll also need to restore morale at the
fund, which is reeling from the arrest on charges of sexual
assault and subsequent resignation of her predecessor,  Dominique Strauss-Kahn . He has pleaded not guilty.  “The immediate task is that of dealing with Europe and the
end of the financial crisis,” said  Edwin Truman , an economist
and former official at the U.S. Treasury Department and  Federal
Reserve , who is now a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics in Washington. “The other question
is the one of legitimacy. Most people think that the deals that
have been cut so far on voting and representation are not
sufficient.”  Chosen by Consensus  The IMF said Lagarde was chosen by consensus to lead the
187-nation organization.  Lagarde will need to decide whether the IMF is ready to
provide extra funding for  Greece , which already received the
second-largest loan in the fund’s history, as Europeans attempt
to craft a new package to help the country avoid debt
restructuring.  The country’s debt has become the world’s most expensive to
insure as Greece’s shrinking economy fails to increase tax
revenues or narrow its deficit under conditions attached to the
IMF and European Union bailout.  The IMF has committed $110 billion to Greece, Ireland and
Portugal and called on policy makers this month to give a signal
that member countries “will do whatever it takes to safeguard
the stability of the euro area,” urging them to scale up
Europe’s rescue fund and extend its potential uses.  Lagarde, appearing on  France ’s TF1 television today,
called on Greece’s opposition parties to offer support to the
government as it seeks to slash the  budget deficit .  First Woman  As the first woman to head the IMF, Lagarde will be
treading on familiar ground. She is the first and only woman
finance chief in the Group of Seven nations, and she was the
first female chairman of Chicago-based Baker & McKenzie LLP, the
world’s fifth biggest law firm by revenue last year.  Lagarde was appointed finance minister by French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  in June 2007, just before the onset of the
global financial crisis.  Her negotiating abilities helped clinch agreement on the
euro area’s sovereign bailout fund announced in the early hours
of May 10 last year, according to a person who was there. The
16-member group’s finance ministers worked through the night to
create a 750 billion-euro ($1.06 trillion) fund to support
financially distressed governments and hold the bloc together.  American,  World Bank   Lagarde’s IMF candidacy was bolstered by an informal
agreement under which an American has always headed the World
Bank while a European has led the IMF. Emerging-market officials
such as Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  have called for
an end to that arrangement, saying the heads of the two
institutions should be chosen on the basis of merit.  During a campaign that took her to  Brazil  and  China ,
Lagarde said she is ready to boost the clout of developing
nations at the IMF and give more management jobs to people from
those countries. She has also vowed to increase diversity in
terms of gender and academic background.  When she announced her candidacy on May 25, Lagarde vowed
to push for quick implementation of a 2010 agreement that makes
China the third-strongest voice in the organization and gives
more say to nations such as Brazil and  South Korea . It also
weakens the influence of advanced European economies, which
pledged to reduce the number of seats they hold at the 24-person
board. She indicated more changes may come.  Fund Representation  “I would be committed to continuously adapt the
representation of the fund, in particular quotas, to changing
economic realities,” she told directors during her job
interview with the IMF board last week, referring to so-called
quotas, which reflect the division of voting power.  The share of emerging markets in the world economy is
projected to exceed that of advanced counterparts in 2013.  Lagarde last week dismissed suggestions that she might show
favoritism toward  Europe . The IMF approved a record $91.7
billion in emergency loans last year and provides a third of
bailout packages in Europe.  “I will not shrink from the necessary candor and toughness
in my discussions with the European leaders,” Lagarde told the
board. “I am not here to represent the interest of any given
region of the world, but rather the entire membership.”  Lagarde takes over an institution that got its resources
tripled by the Group of 20 and was given a host of new tasks by
the group of developed and emerging economies, including helping
single out which countries’ policies threaten global growth.  In coming months, the IMF is set to discuss its first
spillover reports, which examine what effect policies in large
economies including the U.S. and China will have on other
countries. It will also present proposals to diversify the
international currency and reserve system and to strengthen the
surveillance of countries’ economies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  