-- 
Citigroup, Philip Morris, Goodyear, UBS, BTA in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-06-28T10:41:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/citigroup-philip-morris-meat-industry-goodyear-ubs-bta-in-court-news.html
A former vice president in  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ’s treasury finance department, Gary Foster, was charged
with embezzling more than $19 million from the bank in what a
U.S. prosecutor called “the ultimate inside job.”  Foster, 35, was arrested June 26 at  New York ’s John F.
Kennedy International Airport after returning from Bangkok and
charged with bank fraud, U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in
 Brooklyn , New York, said yesterday in a statement. Foster is
accused of transferring money from various Citigroup accounts
and ultimately to his own account at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “The defendant allegedly used his knowledge of bank
operations to commit the ultimate inside job,” Lynch said.  Foster faces a maximum sentence of 30 years in prison if
convicted of bank fraud, according to the statement. He lives in
Englewood Cliffs,  New Jersey , the government said.  “These are obviously serious charges and we will undertake
a serious investigation to defend our client,” Isabelle A.
Kirshner, one of Foster’s lawyers, said in a phone interview.  Foster was released yesterday on an $800,000 bond secured
by his parents’ house in Teaneck, New Jersey. His mother works
as a teller for  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Kirshner told U.S.
Magistrate Judge Ramon E. Reyes Jr. during the court appearance.  From last July to December, Foster, who worked for
Citigroup in the Long Island City section of Queens, New York,
caused about $900,000 to be moved from its interest-expense
account and about $14.4 million from its debt-adjustment account
to the bank’s cash account, according to prosecutors.  Then, in eight transfers, his actions led to the money
being wired from the cash account into his personal account,
prosecutors said. During the alleged fraud, which spanned from
May 2009 to the end of 2010, Foster wired out of Citigroup a
total of $19.2 million, according to the criminal complaint.  Foster caused a fraudulent contract or deal number to be
put in the reference line of the wire-transfer instructions to
make it appear the transfers supported an existing contract, the
complaint charged.  “We are outraged by the actions of this former employee,”
Shannon Bell, a spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup, said
in an e-mail. “Citi informed law enforcement immediately upon
discovery of the suspicious transactions and we are cooperating
fully to ensure Mr. Foster is prosecuted to the full extent of
the law.”  The case is U.S. v. Foster, 11-mj-00645, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Philip Morris  Says  Australia  Plain-Pack Law Violates Treaty  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) , the world’s largest
publicly traded tobacco company, said an Australian proposal
requiring cigarettes to be sold in plain packages violates a
treaty with  Hong Kong  and may cause billions of dollars in
damages.  The maker of Marlboro and Peter Jackson cigarettes said it
served the government with a notice of claim stating its
intention to pursue its case in international arbitration. Hong
Kong has a 1994 treaty with Australia prohibiting the forced
removal of trademarks, Anne Edwards, a Philip Morris
spokeswoman, said in a phone interview yesterday.  The Australian proposal is the first in the world to ban
all logos and different colorings on cigarette packages. New
Zealand,  Canada  and the U.K. had considered the move and didn’t
put it in place because of concerns it would be illegal,  British
American Tobacco Plc (BATS)   said  in April. British American Tobacco
said it’s also considering its legal options.  “There’s a massive public policy argument here,” Wayne
Condon, a partner at Griffith Hack who specializes in
intellectual property law, said in a phone interview. “The
Commonwealth government would be facing a multimillion dollar
claim, if not more,” should the tobacco companies succeed.  Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard said she won’t be
intimidated by the tobacco companies.  “We’re not taking a backward step,” she told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. radio yesterday. “We’ve made the right
decision and we’ll see it through.”  The government raised tobacco taxes by 25 percent last year
as it seeks to curb smoking, which is the nation’s largest
single preventable cause of death, according to Health Minister
Nicola Roxon.  “We don’t believe that taking that action is in breach of
any of our international obligations,” Roxon told Sky News
yesterday. “We believe that we are able, and the Australian
people I think would expect their government, to take action in
the interests of public health.”  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Meat Industry Gets  Supreme Court  Hearing on  California  Law  The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to hear a meat industry trade
group’s challenge to a California law that requires
slaughterhouses to immediately euthanize animals that are too
sick to stand up.  The justices yesterday granted an appeal by the National
Meat Association, which argues that U.S. meat-safety law bars
California from imposing its requirements on federally inspected
slaughterhouses.  The state law was enacted in 2008 after the Humane Society
of the  United States  released a video of so-called downer cows
being kicked, electrocuted, dragged with chains and rammed with
a forklift at a Westland/Hallmark Meat Co. slaughterhouse.  The California law bans slaughterhouses from buying or
selling downer cows and from butchering them for human
consumption. The measure also requires humane handling of the
animals.  A San Francisco-based federal appeals court refused to
grant a preliminary injunction blocking the law. Although the
court said the humane-handling provision probably was pre-empted
by federal law, the three-judge panel declined to block it,
saying the trade group hadn’t shown its members would suffer
“irreparable injury.”  The case is National Meat Association v. Harris, 10-224,
U.S. Supreme Court ( Washington ).  Broadcast Profanity, Nudity Get U.S. High Court Scrutiny  The U.S. Supreme Court, accepting a case that will reshape
the speech rights of broadcasters, agreed to decide whether
federal regulators are violating the Constitution by imposing
fines for on-air profanities and nudity.  The justices yesterday said they will review a lower
court’s conclusion that the Federal Communications Commission’s
indecency policy is unconstitutionally vague. The dispute stems
from expletives uttered on two Fox network award shows and from
a scene with a naked woman on ABC’s “NYPD Blue.”  Two appeals court rulings “preclude the commission from
effectively implementing statutory restrictions on broadcast
indecency that the agency has enforced since its creation in
1934,” the Justice Department said in its appeal.  The case gives the high court a chance to issue a sweeping
decision.  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC say the
court should overturn decades-old rulings that give the FCC more
authority to regulate programming on broadcast stations than on
cable or satellite.  The case is Federal Communications Commission v. Fox
Television Stations, 10-1293, U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Ex- Illinois  Governor Blagojevich Convicted in Second Trial  Former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich was found guilty
by a federal jury of trying to trade President Barack Obama’s
U.S. Senate seat in 2008 for personal favors and campaign cash.  The twice-elected Democrat, standing trial in  Chicago  for
the second time on political corruption charges, was convicted
on 17 counts, including all 11 charges relating to his efforts
to barter the Senate seat for a Cabinet-level presidential
appointment, leadership of a political advocacy group or
donations to his Friends of Blagojevich campaign fund.  “I frankly am stunned. There’s not much left to say other
than we want to get home to our little girls and talk to them
and explain things to them and then try to sort things out,”
Blagojevich, with his wife Patti at his side, said in a brief
statement to the press after the verdict. He took no questions.  Jurors convicted the former governor of 10 wire fraud
counts, two attempted extortion counts and two extortion
conspiracy counts, each punishable by as many as 20 years in
prison. He was also convicted of one of two solicitation of
bribery counts, which carries a maximum sentence of 10 years,
and two bribery conspiracy counts, which carry top sentences of
five years.  The panel of 11 women and one man acquitted the former
governor on the other bribery solicitation count and were unable
to agree on a verdict for two other attempted extortion counts.  U.S. District Judge James B. Zagel confined Blagojevich,
54, to the Northern District of Illinois. A sentencing date
hasn’t been set.  The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08-cr-00888, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  For more, click here.  Violent Video Game Limits Struck Down by U.S. Supreme Court  The U.S. Supreme Court struck down a California law
prohibiting sales of violent video games to minors, saying the
ban is an unconstitutional infringement on speech rights.  The nation’s highest court yesterday  rejected  the state’s
contention that violent games are akin to sexual materials,
which the government can restrict to protect children.  “Even where the protection of children is the object, the
constitutional limits on governmental action apply,” Justice
Antonin Scalia wrote for five justices. The vote to strike down
the law was 7-2, with the majority divided in its reasoning.  A decision upholding the law, which was never enforced,
might have encouraged enactment of similar measures around the
country. The video game industry has more than $10 billion in
annual sales.  The ruling, issued on the final day of the court’s 2010-11
term, divided the justices along unusual lines. Justices Stephen
Breyer and Clarence Thomas dissented. Chief Justice John Roberts
and Justice  Samuel Alito  wrote separately to say they would have
issued a narrower ruling that struck down the law as being too
vague while leaving room for states to enact clearer statutes.  “I would not squelch legislative efforts to deal with what
is perceived by some to be a significant and developing social
problem,” Alito wrote for the two.  Yesterday’s ruling upheld a decision by a San Francisco-
based federal appeals court.  Breyer, in his dissent, said the law wasn’t aimed at
censorship. He said the measure merely ensured that parents
would decide whether they wanted their children to play violent
video games.  The case is Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Association,
08-1448, U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Goodyear Wins U.S. High Court Case on Foreign-Unit Suits  U.S. Supreme Court overturned a ruling that required three
overseas units of  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT)  to face a lawsuit
filed by the families of two North Carolina boys killed in a bus
wreck in  France .  The ruling was one of two issued yesterday that may give
foreign companies and subsidiaries a stronger shield against
legal claims filed in American courts.  A North Carolina state appeals court said the Goodyear
units had enough of a connection to the state to put them within
the jurisdiction of the courts there, even though the accident
took place elsewhere.  The Supreme Court has said in past cases that, under the
U.S. Constitution, defendants can be sued only in states where
they have significant contacts.  Julian Brown and Matt Helms, both 13, were killed in 2004
when a tire on their bus allegedly blew out, causing the vehicle
to crash into a concrete wall. They were in France to play in
youth soccer tournaments.  Goodyear contended that its three units make tires
primarily for European and Asian markets and that the tire at
issue was never distributed in North Carolina.  In a second case resolved yesterday, the Supreme Court said
an English manufacturer can’t be sued over a New Jersey accident
involving one of the company’s metal-shearing machines.  The company, J. McIntyre Machinery Ltd., contended that it
never sought to sell its products in New Jersey. The New Jersey
Supreme Court said it was enough that the company had
distributed its machines elsewhere in the U.S., putting them
into the “stream of commerce.”  Robert Nicastro sought to sue J. McIntyre after the machine
severed four of his fingers in 2001.  The case is Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operation v. Brown,
10-76, U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  Cigarette Makers Rejected by Top Court on $270 Million Award  The U.S. Supreme Court refused to question an order that
requires the nation’s tobacco companies to spend more than $270
million on a Louisiana smoking cessation program.  Cigarette makers including  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip
Morris USA and  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) ’s R.J. Reynolds contended
that state courts violated the Constitution by letting the case
go forward as a class action on behalf of all Louisiana smokers
who want to participate in a cessation program. The companies
said an individual smoker should have been required to show he
or she was entitled to damages.  The question was whether state courts can “impose massive
liability in a class action without a truly representative trial
of individual claims,” the companies argued in their appeal.  Last week, the court threw out a nationwide gender-bias
suit against  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  That ruling centered on the
rules governing group suits in federal courts and in theory
could be overridden by Congress.  The lead Louisiana plaintiff, Deania M. Jackson, urged the
Supreme Court not to hear the case, contending she was suing
under a state law that doesn’t require individualized proof.
Jackson argued that no individual plaintiff would file a suit
seeking smoking-cessation services valued at $153 a year.  “That Louisiana makes such a cause of action available as
a class action without requiring proof of individualized
reliance on misrepresentations does not implicate the due
process clause,” Jackson argued.  The current judgment requires the companies to pay $242
million, plus $37 million in interest.  Philip Morris said in a statement that it is responsible
for a quarter of the judgment and that it has set aside about
$30 million.  “Philip Morris USA is disappointed that the court declined
to hear our arguments because we believe the decision in this
case rests on a series of constitutional violations and is
fundamentally unfair,”  Murray Garnick , Altria Client Services
senior vice president and associate general counsel, said in a
statement.  The case is Philip Morris v. Jackson, 10-735, U.S. Supreme
Court (Washington.)  Ex-UBS Client Kenneth Heller Pleads Guilty to Tax Evasion  Kenneth Heller, a disbarred lawyer charged with using an
offshore  UBS AG (UBSN)  account to hide more than $26 million from the
Internal Revenue Service, pleaded guilty to evading taxes.  Heller, 81, pleaded guilty to three counts of personal
income tax evasion from 2006 to 2008 in a hearing yesterday
before U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel in Manhattan.  Heller faces as long as 15 years in prison when he’s
sentenced Sept. 27. He told Castel he has memory loss and needs
a kidney transplant. Based on his health, prosecutors agreed to
recommend a sentence below the 30 to 37 months that both sides
agreed would be called for under federal sentencing guidelines.  “I did not pay the United States a substantial amount of
taxes for the calendar years charged in the indictment,”
Heller, reading from a statement, told the judge.  Heller was arrested in April 2010 and charged with evading
more than $2.3 million in federal income taxes. He was one of
seven ex-clients of Zurich-based UBS arrested on the same day
and charged with hiding a total of more than $100 million from
the IRS.  UBS admitted in February 2009 that it helped U.S. clients
evade taxes. The bank avoided prosecution by paying a $780
million fine and turning over the names of U.S. account holders
to investigators.  As part of a plea agreement, Heller agreed to pay a $9.8
million penalty to the IRS.  The case is U.S. v. Heller, 10-mg-742, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Centro Directors Breached Debt Disclosure Duties, Judge Says  Centro Properties Group (CNP)  directors wrongly approved
financial statements that didn’t disclose all the company’s
debt, a federal judge ruled, a decision that the stock market
regulator said clarifies a board’s duties to shareholders.  Centro’s 2007 annual report failed to disclose A$1.5
billion ($1.6 billion) of short-term liabilities by classifying
them as non-current, and the company didn’t declare $1.75
billion of short-term debt guarantees of an associated company,
Judge John Middleton wrote in a 189-page ruling yesterday in
Melbourne. The mall manager also didn’t disclose A$500 million
of short-term debt at one of its units, the judge said.  “This proceeding is not about a mere technical
oversight,” Middleton wrote. “The information not disclosed
was a matter of significance to the assessment of risks facing”
Centro and its unit Centro Retail Group, he said.  The ruling makes clear directors have a responsibility to
ensure the accuracy of a company’s financial statements, Greg
Medcraft, chairman of the Australian Securities & Investment
Commission, said at a news conference in Sydney. The ruling also
shows the danger boards face when they rely uncritically on
management or auditors, Medcraft said.  Centro is reviewing the ruling and will comment further
this week, it said in a statement to the Australian Stock
Exchange.  “The critical task of restructuring Centro in the best
interests of all investors remains the priority,” the company
said. “Today’s decision will not impact the progress being made
on that front.”  The case is Australian Securities and Investments
Commission v. Healey. VID750/2009. Federal Court of Australia
(Melbourne).  For more, click here.  BTA Wins 18-Month Sentence for Ex-Chairman’s Brother-in-Law  Syrym Shalabayev, the brother-in-law of ex-BTA Bank
Chairman  Mukhtar Ablyazov , was sentenced to 18 months in a U.K.
jail in connection with an alleged fraud at the Kazakh bank that
defaulted on $12 billion of debt.  Shalabayev, whose whereabouts are unknown, failed to reveal
his assets or cooperate in the case, Justice Michael Briggs
ruled yesterday in the High Court in  London . An arrest warrant
was issued against him last month and yesterday he received two
18-month sentences to run concurrently, and a conditional six
month sentence if he continues to fail to comply with court
orders.  “This is a very serious case of total non-compliance,”
Briggs said in his ruling. “It’s a case where the claimants
continue to have a pressing need for Shalabayev to comply.”  BTA, Kazakhstan’s biggest lender before it was nationalized
in 2009, has sued Ablyazov and ex-Chief Executive Officer Roman
Solodchenko in the U.K. over claims they siphoned money from the
bank through fake loans to offshore shell companies as early as
2005. Shalabayev allegedly helped create false documents to hide
Ablyazov’s ties to the entities.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  