-- 
Clean Water Act Compliance Case Draws U.S. High Court Review

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-06-28T15:47:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/clean-water-act-compliance-case-draws-u-s-high-court-review-1-.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  agreed to
consider whether people accused by federal regulators of
violating environmental laws have a right to immediately take
their case to a federal judge.  The justices said today they will hear arguments from two
people battling with the Environmental Protection Agency over
their efforts to build a house on their Idaho property. The
court will hear arguments during the nine-month term that starts
in October.  The EPA ordered Chantell and Michael Sackett to restore
their land after they began earth-moving work without the
federal permit that the agency says was required under the  Clean
Water Act . The order threatened the couple with fines of as much
as $32,500 a day.  The Sacketts contend they have a constitutional right to
seek judicial review of that order right away. A federal appeals
court said the couple had to wait until regulators sought to
enforce the order by asking a federal court to impose a fine.  The Obama administration and the EPA urged the Supreme
Court not to hear the appeal, arguing that the couple has ample
avenues for contesting the order without risking fines. Among
other options, the Sacketts could apply for a permit, the
government said.  The Sacketts counter that a permit application would
potentially cost hundreds of thousands of dollars.  The case has potential implications for businesses as well
as individual landowners. The Supreme Court earlier this month
turned away a  General Electric Co. (GE)  appeal that raised a similar
issue under the federal Superfund law. The company was
challenging a provision that lets the EPA order companies to
begin cleanup of hazardous waste site.  The case is Sackett v. EPA, 10-1062.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 