-- 
Clinton Tells African Leaders Economies Would Fail Without Women’s Toil

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-06-28T21:11:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/clinton-tells-envoys-africa-economies-would-fail-without-the-toil-of-women.html
Hillary Clinton ’s speech was met
with silence from the male-dominated envoys at the  African Union 
as she criticized the continents aging autocrats. The mood
changed when the U.S. Secretary of State turned her attention to
women.  “The women of  Africa  are the hardest working women in the
world,” said Clinton, addressing the 53-nation body in  Addis
Ababa  on June 13. Interrupted by loud cheers from the visitors’
area in the upper gallery in the back of the hall, she
exclaimed: “If all the women in Africa, from Cairo to  Cape
Town , decided they would stop working for a week, the economies
of Africa would collapse.”  If African women were  given equal access  as men to
vocational training and technology, the continent’s economy
would expand by at least 40 percent, according  Calestous Juma , a
professor of international development at Harvard University’s
John F. Kennedy School of Government in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts .  The disparities are most evident in agriculture, which
accounts for 70 percent of employment and 30 percent of the
gross domestic product of sub-Saharan Africa. About 100 million
women in Africa use only rudimentary farm tools. That limits
them to cultivating at most an hectare (2.5 acres) of land,
which they spend almost 2,000 hours a year weeding.  “Weeding is literally breaking the backs of African
women,” said Juma author of “The New Harvest: Agricultural
Innovation in Africa.”  After all that, as much as 45 percent of what they produce
is wasted because they cannot store their crops adequately or
access markets, Juma said in an interview.  Zambian Businesswomen  For Clinton, the plight of women has helped drive an
 aggressive travel schedule  that her office says has clocked up
more miles than any of her predecessors. She’s gone 567,305
miles, visiting 85 countries in 232 days on the road since
taking office in January 2009. She makes it a point to meet
local women in impoverished nations.  In Zambia, which hadn’t hosted a secretary of state since
 Henry Kissinger  in 1976, Clinton was met by a singing and
dancing chorus of local businesswomen who had taken part in a
U.S.-funded program to train female entrepreneurs on how to tap
financing and export their goods.  “Have you been to a market? Have you looked at fields
being tilled? Have you watched children being raised?” Clinton
told her hosts at a meeting in Lusaka, Zambia to discuss a U.S.
trade agreement with 37 African countries. “Women are holding
up half the economy already.”  ‘Anything is Possible’  Among those listening was Linda Moono, part of a group that
set up the only Mexican restaurant in Lusaka and helps young
entrepreneurs get their businesses off the ground.  “I was inspired, particularly by her focus on young
women,” she said in a June 9 interview. “She makes one believe
anything is possible.”  Even as a privileged woman in America, Clinton told her
 female audience , she had run into double standards. In the 1970s
in Arkansas, Clinton recalled how she was earning three times
her husband’s wages as lawyer, yet she could not get a  credit
card  in her own name.  As Clinton battled sexism in her own country, across the
Atlantic Ocean in Copenhagen, Danish economist Ester Boserup had
published in 1970  “Woman’s Role in Economic Development,” 
drawing attention to the growing productivity gap resulting from
women being ignored by economic policy makers.  Boserup, who wrote the book in her 50s, described how the
gap in productivity between the two sexes widens when boys
receive vocational training while girls got initiated by their
mothers on how to be housewives. In schools, the teaching
differs depending on your sex and, at home, parents teach their
children that boys are superior to girls.  Persistent Gap  Four decades after Boserup’s book the gender gap persists.
Women make up almost 50 percent of the agricultural  labor force 
in sub-Saharan Africa, though they are still tend to be
segregated into lower-paid jobs and have less access to land
than men, according to a report published in March by the Rome-
based Food and Agricultural Organization. For  developing
countries  where FAO was able to obtain data, in some places as
little as 3 percent of landholders are women.  “In too many places, it is still too difficult for a woman
to start a business,” Clinton said. “Cultural traditions may
discourage her from handling money or managing employees.
Complex regulations may make it hard for her to buy land or keep
land or get a loan.”  Stoves and Mobiles  To help improve women’s lot, the top U.S. diplomat has
thrown her weight behind the Global Alliance for Clean
Cookstoves, even recruiting Hollywood star  Julia Roberts  to join
the cause, and pushed for setting up telephone hotlines or  text
messaging services  to far-away authorities that can help rape
victims in places such as Democratic Republic of Congo report
crimes committed far from urban centers.  The U.S. last September committed $50.8 million, about 80
percent of the funds raised so far, to bring clean-burning
stoves to homes in poor villages in places such as Africa.  Inhaling smoke from poorly ventilated stoves is linked to
 lung cancer  and respiratory infections such as pneumonia and
leads to the early deaths of more than 2 million people a year,
according to the  UN Foundation . The stoves are also more
efficient, which means users don’t need to go miles looking for
wood, risking attacks in dangerous areas.  In conflict zones such as Darfur, women and girls have been
attacked while spending hours foraging for firewood.  Awa Coulibaly, a mother of seven in  Mali , said she saves
about $150 a year in fuel costs from trading her old stove for a
more efficient cook stove that emits less smoke and doesn’t
cause skin burns, according to Erik Wurster of E+Co, a nonprofit
company based in Bloomfield,  New Jersey , that invests in clean
energy projects in Africa.  1995 Beijing  Women’s rights  have been the defining issue for Clinton,
from her time in  Arkansas  to the empowered wife of President
 Bill Clinton  in the 1990s to senator for  New York  and finally
the face of American diplomacy.  As first lady she traveled to  China  in 1995 to attend the
United Nation’s Fourth World Conference on Women and  defied
Chinese authorities  by refusing to tone down a speech that state
radio and television blacked out.  “It is time for us to say here in Beijing, and the world
to hear, that it is no longer acceptable to discuss women’s
rights as separate from human rights,” she told 180 delegates
from the podium. “Even today, there are those who are trying to
silence our words.”  As she prepares to leave office next year, Clinton has
given a glimpse of where her future lies.  “I think I’ll serve as secretary of state as my last
public position, and then probably go back to advocacy work,
particularly on behalf of women and children and particularly
around the world,” Clinton told a town hall meeting in
December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  