-- 
Canadians’ Confidence Hits 2-Year Low in Poll Amid Global Economic Worries

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-06-28T13:44:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/confidence-in-canada-economy-at-two-year-low-nanos-poll-shows.html
Canadians’ confidence in the
country’s economic prospects fell to its lowest in two years
amid concern that the global recovery is stalling, according to
a poll by Nanos  Research .  The proportion of Canadians who predict a weaker economy in
the next six months rose to 23.6 percent from 19.1 percent in
March, according to Nanos’s quarterly economic survey. The share
of Canadians who see a stronger economy fell to 29.2 percent
from 30.3 percent. The Nanos Expectations Index, which also
includes perceptions related to  home prices , fell to 112.8 in
the second quarter, the lowest since the second quarter of 2009.  The data suggest Canadian consumers may curtail spending as
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis continues and evidence mounts
that the  U.S. economy  is slowing, according to Nik Nanos,
president of the Ottawa-based polling company.  While the Canadian economy may be relatively sound, news
from abroad is “a bit of a wet blanket on the future,” Nanos
said in a telephone interview.  “The risk is that it becomes a
self-fulfilling prophesy” and people spend less.  Bank of  Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  said June 15 this
quarter’s economic growth rate could be less than the 2 percent
pace the central bank had forecast in April, down from the 3.9
percent rate seen in January-March period. The bank also said
last week that sovereign debt levels abroad are posing a greater
risk to the country’s financial system than six months earlier.  The euro has slid 3.3 percent since the end of April amid
mounting concern  Greece  may default, while the Canadian dollar
has depreciated 4.1 percent. Canada’s benchmark S&P/TSX
Composite stock index has lost 6.6 percent over that time.  ‘Soft Spot’  “People will formulate opinions on the future based upon
what’s happening to them right now and right now we’re in a soft
spot in the economy,” said  Derek Holt , vice president of
economics at Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto.  The Nanos poll found the state of household finances in
Canada has been largely unchanged since March. While the share
of Canadians who say their personal finances have improved over
the past six months fell to 17.9 percent from 20.3 percent at
the end of March, those who say they are worse off also dropped,
sliding to 24.7 percent from 25.6 percent, according to the
poll.  “Canadians are not worse off,” Nanos said. “However, in
terms of where they think things will be in the next six months,
they are much more pessimistic,” Nanos said.  The Nanos poll of 1,211 Canadians was taken between June 16
and June 19, and has a margin of error of 2.8 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 