-- 
Obama Trade Accord With Congress Touted as Republicans Balk at Worker Aid

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-06-29T00:06:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/congress-is-said-to-move-closer-to-approval-on-three-stalled-trade-accords.html
The Obama administration announced
an agreement for Congress to act on stalled trade accords with
 South Korea , Colombia and Panama, as Republicans balked at plans
to incorporate aid to displaced U.S. workers.  “We now have an agreement for underlying terms” to renew
a program helping workers who lose their jobs to foreign
competition, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said today
in a statement.  The deal reached among White House National Economic
Council Director  Gene Sperling ; Senate Finance Committee
chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat; and  House Ways and
Means Committee  Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican,
doesn’t include linking the aid program with the free trade
agreements, as the administration wants.  “The decision on how to move these items through the House
is a matter for Republican leadership to determine,” Camp said
in a statement after the deal was announced. House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, has insisted that the aid, known as
 Trade Adjustment Assistance , be considered on its own.  The Senate Finance Committee said it would hold a hearing
June 30 on the accords, which have been awaiting approval since
at least 2007. Legislation drafted by Baucus would attach the
Trade Adjustment Assistance for workers to the South Korea deal,
prompting renew protests from Republicans.  Republican Resistance  “I’ve never voted against a trade agreement before, but if
the administration were to embed TAA into the Korea trade
agreement, I would be compelled to vote against it,” Senate
Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky told reporters. It
makes the debate “needlessly complicated and contentious.”  President  Barack Obama  reworked the three free-trade
agreements completed by his predecessor,  George W. Bush , in
response to concerns among Democrats and some companies on
issues such as labor rights and access to markets. The
administration has been pushing to get the deals approved by
Congress before a recess in August.  The Trade Adjustment Assistance program augments health and
unemployment benefits to workers who lose their jobs because of
overseas competition. As part of the stimulus bill in 2009, it
was expanded to include service workers such as call-center
employees. The added benefits expired in February.  Accounting for Costs  As part of the deal with Camp to extend most of the
benefits through 2013, the $575 million cost will be paid for by
consolidating some programs and making cuts elsewhere in the
budget so that it won’t add to the deficit, according to an
administration official who briefed reporters on condition of
anonymity.  The official said the administration was expecting to get
the aid and the trade deals through Congress even with the
resistance from Republicans.  Legislation to implement the trade agreements would be
given fast-track treatment, a procedure that guarantees such
bills submitted to Congress by the president can’t be amended
before an up-or-down vote.  “The road to this point has not been an easy one, but our
economy needs these jobs and these opportunities,” Baucus said
today in an e-mailed statement.  What the Senate panel announced today was a “mock markup”
session, held before the administration submits the legislation,
that gives lawmakers a chance to offer amendments. The
administration can accept or disregard any amendments made in
the hearing before sending the measure to Congress.  ‘Dealt With Separately’  Boehner has long maintained that the worker aid “should be
dealt with separately from the trade agreements, and that is how
we expect to proceed,”  Brendan Buck , Boehner’s spokesman, said
in an e-mailed statement.  John Brinkley, a spokesman for the South Korean embassy,
declined to comment on the agreement announced today, saying he
hadn’t had an opportunity to review it. Ruby Chagui, a
spokeswoman for the Colombian embassy in  Washington , declined to
comment. Carmen Mora, a spokeswoman for  Panama ’s embassy in
Washington, didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment.  The South Korea accord was opposed by Ford Motor Co. and
the United Auto Workers union until the Obama administration
negotiated to scale back reductions of tariffs. Total trade in
goods with South Korea climbed to $88 billion in 2010, making
the deal the biggest for the U.S. since the  North American Free
Trade Agreement  with Mexico and  Canada  in 1994.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net :
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  