-- 
McQueen Beats Van Gogh as Frockmeister’s Met Fans Top 354,000

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-06-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/mcqueen-beats-van-gogh-as-late-frockmeister-s-met-attendance-tops-354-000.html
It looked like the food lines in my
old hometown of Leningrad.  That’s how long the queue is to get into the hit show at
 New York ’s Metropolitan Museum of Art, “ Alexander McQueen :
Savage Beauty.”  The waiting time to see the late designer’s outlandish
creations is displayed on a stand by the ticket counters. It was
30 minutes when I visited on a rainy Wednesday and can be more
than twice that.  Since the show’s opening on May 4, 354,684 people have seen
it through Sunday, surpassing the attendance of the 2005  Van Gogh  drawing exhibition during its first seven weeks.  “It’s certainly going to be among the most popular shows
ever,” said Harold Holzer, the museum’s senior vice president
for external affairs. “In terms of running at maximum capacity,
it’s right up there with all the biggest hits at the Met.”  Installed by the museum’s Costume Institute, the exhibition
features about 100 ensembles and 70 accessories created by
McQueen, who committed suicide last year. Materials include
horse hair, wood, ostrich feathers, antlers and crocodile heads.
Other distractions: video installations and a dreamy hologram of
 Kate Moss  amid rippling ribbons of silk.  You won’t see any of that without joining a line that
snakes past masterpieces by Rodin and Bouguereau, spills around
a corner at an elevator bank and sometimes stretches all the way
to the Great Hall balcony. (Museum members don’t have to wait).  “It looks like it could be two hours,” said Zina
Freundlich of  Highland Park ,  New Jersey , who came to the Met
with her friends and decided to give it a try when the line
attendant assured her it would be only 30 minutes.  Tartan Frocks and Robots  Every half an hour, about 400 people trickle into the
darkened rooms displaying neo-Victorian gowns and tartan frocks.
About 6,500 people see the show on weekdays and 8,000 on
weekends when the museum is open until 9 p.m.  Someone might step on your foot as you watch the video of
two robots spray-painting model Shalom Harlow’s pristine white
dress (the resulting piece is displayed in a niche underneath
the television screen).  The Met has extended the show by one week and is offering
extra viewings, including July 4. Those willing to pay $50 for a
ticket can attend on Mondays when the museum is closed to the
public. More than 1,000 people have paid for “Met Mondays with
McQueen” since the offer began on June 6.  During the last week of the exhibition, which closes Aug. 7,
the museum is considering staying open outside of its regular
business hours to accommodate demand, Holzer said.  Beating Vermeer  “Savage Beauty” has beaten the attendance figures of
Vermeer’s masterpiece “The Milkmaid,” which attracted 329,446
visitors during an almost four-month run.  Jeff Koons ’s
“balloon” sculptures on the roof brought in 657,801 people
during its six-month run.  Comparing various exhibitions is tricky because of their
different nature and duration, Holzer said: “It’s only about
how many people can get through the drawing show or a fashion
show in an hour.”  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 