-- 
Oil Gains a Second Day on Forecast Drop in U.S. Stockpiles, Greece Vote

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 
2011-06-29T08:05:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/crude-oil-rises-for-second-day-on-greek-vote-optimism-u-s-stockpile-drop.html
Oil rose for a second day in  New
York , extending the biggest gain in six weeks, on speculation
U.S. crude inventories declined and steps by Greece’s government
to prevent a default will bolster  Europe ’s economy.  Futures advanced as much as 0.7 percent after rallying 2.5
percent yesterday. U.S. oil stockpiles probably dropped for a
fourth week, according to a Bloomberg News survey before an
Energy Department report. Greece’s parliament will vote today on
Prime Minister George Papandreou’s plan to cut spending and sell
assets. The first tropical storm of the Atlantic hurricane
season formed in the Gulf of  Mexico .  “It’s very much a market that’s waiting for more
information around the European situation,” said  Ben Westmore ,
a minerals and energy economist at National Australia Bank Ltd.
in  Melbourne , who predicts oil will average $113 a barrel in the
third quarter. “It still seems to be a major determinant of
movements in these markets.”  Crude for August delivery rose as much as 66 cents to
$93.55 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $93.32 at 4:01 p.m. Singapore time.
Yesterday, the contract climbed $2.28 to $92.89, the highest
settlement since June 22. Prices are up 2.1 percent so far this
year.  Brent oil for August settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange gained 47 cents to $109.25 a barrel,
after falling as much as 0.6 percent. The European benchmark
contract was at a premium of $15.96 to U.S. futures. On June 15,
the spread reached a record $22.29.  Greece  Vote  Oil is headed for the first quarterly decline in a year
after Europe’s debt crisis bolstered speculation fuel demand
will be reduced. New York futures are down 12.5 percent from the
end of March, the worst second quarter since 1990. Brent has
lost 6.8 percent.  Greek police fired tear gas to disperse protesters in
 Athens  as labor unions shut down government services before
today’s vote by lawmakers, aimed at averting Europe’s first
sovereign default. Greece’s second rescue in less than two years
is threatening to undermine the euro, the common currency shared
by 17 nations.  U.S. crude inventories decreased 1.5 million barrels in the
seven days ended June 24 from 363.8 million, according to the
median estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Refiners probably maintained operating rates at a 10-month high
of 89.2 percent of capacity as they boosted gasoline production
before the Fourth of July holiday.  The Energy Department will release its Weekly Petroleum
Status Report at 10:30 a.m. in  Washington . Yesterday, the
industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  said crude
stockpiles slipped 2.7 million barrels to 360.3 million, the
lowest in 10 weeks.  Tropical Storm  The first tropical storm of the  Atlantic hurricane season ,
Arlene, formed in the southwestern  Gulf of Mexico  and may cause
“life-threatening flash floods and mudslides,” said the U.S.
National Hurricane Center.  Arlene is moving west-northwest near 7 miles (11
kilometers) an hour, with a turn toward the west forecast today,
the center said in a bulletin at about 11 p.m. New York time
yesterday. The storm is packing maximum sustained winds near 40
mph, below the 74-mile threshold for hurricanes.  Petroleos Mexicanos , Mexico’s state-owned oil company and
Latin America’s largest crude producer, has wells in the Bay of
Campeche, south of the storm. Mexico is the second-biggest oil
exporter to the U.S. and supplied 1.19 million barrels a day in
March, the latest month for which Energy Department data is
available.  Oil in New York settled higher than two technical-
resistance levels yesterday, signaling the market may extend
gains. Futures climbed above a Fibonacci retracement level at
$92.79 a barrel and the 200-day moving average, which is at
$92.90 today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  