-- 
Oil Rises From Four-Month Low in New York on U.S. Demand, Supply Outlook

-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 
2011-06-28T04:26:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/crude-oil-rises-from-four-month-low-in-new-york-on-u-s-economic-outlook.html
Oil rose in  New York  as speculation
U.S. fuel demand will increase prompted investors to buy
contracts after prices fell to the lowest in four months.  Crude climbed as much as 0.9 percent before a report today
that may show a rebound in  consumer confidence  in the U.S., the
world’s biggest user of the commodity. U.S. oil stockpiles
probably dropped to the lowest in two months, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. Futures yesterday slid after  consumer
spending  stagnated in May. Prices are gaining after holding
above a long-term Fibonacci technical support level.  “On a global basis, demand growth now should be very
steady,” said  Tetsu Emori , a commodity-fund manager at Astmax
Ltd. in  Tokyo . “Some bearish information has been coming up but
in general, the market is looking for a range between $90 and
$100 a barrel.”  Crude for August delivery rose as much as 80 cents to
$91.41 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $90.78 at 12:21 p.m. Singapore time.
Yesterday, the contract fell 0.6 percent to $90.61, the lowest
settlement since Feb. 18. Futures have gained 16 percent in the
past year.  Brent oil for August settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange climbed as much as 85 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $106.84 a barrel. The European benchmark contract
was at a premium of $15.15 to U.S. futures. On June 15, the
difference between front-month contracts reached a record
$22.29.  Brent Backwardation  BNP Paribas SA said investors could benefit from betting
that near-term Brent crude futures will revert to a premium over
longer-dated contracts as the effect of the International Energy
Agency’s stockpile release wears off.  Brent futures may return to backwardation, a structure in
which prompt prices are higher than later contracts, the Paris-
based bank’s analysts, led by  Harry Tchilinguirian , said in a
report yesterday. The IEA’s plan to sell about 2 million barrels
a day of oil over 30 days will be insufficient to make up for
supply disruption in  Libya , the bank said.  The Conference Board’s index of U.S. consumer confidence
will climb to 61 in June from 60.8 in May, which was the lowest
in half a year, according to the median estimate of 69
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The report is scheduled
for release at 10 a.m. in New York.  U.S. crude inventories fell as refiners boosted gasoline
output before the Fourth of July holiday, according to the
median estimate of 10 analysts polled before an Energy
Department report tomorrow. Supplies dropped 1.5 million
barrels, or 0.4 percent, to 362.3 million in the seven days
ended June 24. The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute 
will report its own data today.  U.S. Refineries  Refineries are expected to have operated at an average of
89.2 percent of capacity, unchanged from the prior week’s 10-
month high, as they made gasoline to meet demand from motorists
traveling during the U.S. Independence Day weekend, typically
the peak consumption period.  Crude also rose after prices held above a long-term support
level on weekly technical charts. Futures in the past two
sessions traded below $89.84 a barrel before settling higher.
That’s the 50 percent Fibonacci retracement of the drop to
$32.40 in December 2008 from an all-time high of $147.27 in July
that year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A breach of
technical support usually means prices will continue to fall.  “Ninety dollars seems to be quite firm support at the
moment,” said Emori at Astmax. “Current fundamentals make
selling below $90 too risky.”  Atlantic Low-Pressure  A low-pressure weather system in the Bay of Campeche has a
50 percent chance of becoming the Atlantic’s first named storm
this year, according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center in
Miami. The hurricane season runs from June 1 to Nov. 30.  Oil is headed for the first quarterly drop in a year on
speculation global economic growth will slow and damp fuel
demand. New York futures are down 15 percent since March 31 and
Brent has lost 9.8 percent.  Crude fell 4.6 percent on June 23, the most in six weeks,
after the  International Energy Agency  said it will release 60
million barrels in emergency stockpiles. There’s no need for
such action, the president and secretary-general of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said separately
yesterday.  “We should be looking more on the fundamentals side,
rather than oil-related matters,” said Emori at Astmax. “The
most important thing is how soon the  U.S. economy  will be again
rebounding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  