-- 
Danish Banks Face Struggle to Sell Bonds After Failure of Regional Lender

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-06-29T09:53:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/danish-banks-face-international-funding-wall.html
Denmark ’s banks face reluctance 
from international investors to buy their bonds after
a second regional lender failed this month, triggering  Europe ’s
toughest resolution rules.  Spar Nord Bank A/S, Denmark’s fourth-largest lender, isn’t
approaching investors outside the Nordic country as it waits for
the fallout of the June 24 collapse of Fjordbank Mors A/S to
recede, said Ole Madsen, Spar Nord’s head of communications.  The country’s banks, struggling to emerge from the
aftermath of Amagerbanken A/S’s Feb. 6 failure, face a long-term
increase in funding costs after Denmark’s resolution laws
triggered the European Union’s first senior creditor losses,
Moody’s Investors Service said on May 19. The rating company has
since downgraded a number of Danish lenders, including the
country’s biggest, Danske Bank A/S, citing an absence of state
support.  Spar Nord shares traded 2.4 percent lower at 41 kroner at
11:48 a.m. in Copenhagen. The stock has lost 33 percent this
year, compared with a 7.1 percent decline in the 49-member
Bloomberg index of European financial companies in the same
period.  “We didn’t try the international funding market because
the dust hasn’t yet settled after Amagerbanken,” Madsen said
yesterday in a phone interview out of Aalborg, Denmark. “If
we’d tried selling to international investors” after Fjordbank
Mors’ collapse, “the timing would have been just as bad as
after Amagerbanken,” he said.  Cibor Jumps  The Copenhagen Interbank Offered Rate jumped to the highest
in almost two years today, with banks quoting the rate they’re
willing to lend to each other up two basis points at 1.5950
percent today.  The cost of credit-default swaps linked to the senior debt
of Danske Bank climbed 31 basis points to 170, the highest since
2009, according to CMA. Swaps on the lender’s subordinated debt
increased 38 basis points to 248, with an increase reflecting a
deterioration in the perception of  credit quality .  Spar Nord Bank, which in February shelved a debt sale
because of Amagerbanken’s collapse, said yesterday it sold 250
million kroner ($48 million) in three-year debt to a circle of
Danish institutional investors. The notes will have a quarterly
variable rate of 195 basis points over three-month Cibor. SEB AB
arranged the issue, the bank said.  Extra Cost  In May, Spar Nord paid 180 basis points over three-month
Euribor to borrow 200 million euros ($287 million). That
compares with the 150 basis points over Euribor the bank was
paying before February, Madsen said then.  “Denmark has done what has been signaled across Europe,”
said Torsten Bech, a senior analyst at LD Invest Markets in
Copenhagen, in a phone interview. “Today, Denmark is the only
country that has given haircuts to senior bondholders. But it’s
not without a cost for senior bondholders.”  He says the industry can’t avoid consolidation because
“funding is such a big issue and your ability to get funding,
especially funding abroad, is correlated to the size of your
bank.”  Central Bank Governor Nils Bernstein this week urged banks
at risk of failing to reduce their lending or look for buyers
instead of using the state’s resolution facility.  Avoiding Bail-Ins  The government wants healthy banks to absorb troubled
lenders and has passed a bill allowing banks to tap Denmark’s
depositor guarantee fund to help finance such purchases. Economy
Minister Brian Mikkelsen said June 26 it’s “regrettable” there
were no buyers for Fjordbank Mors.  Both Fjordbank Mors and Amagerbanken failed after losing
money on loans to the  construction industry . Fjordbank also
suffered losses because of its loans to the farming sector.  Fjordbank had the worst risk ranking of 99 banks graded by
researcher  Niro Invest ApS , Copenhagen-based newspaper Borsen
said on June 23. It was followed by Aarhus Lokalbank A/S and  Max
Bank (MAX)  A/S, according to Niro.  Shares in Aarhus Lokalbank opened 5.3 percent lower today,
while Max Bank lost 5.9 percent at the open of trading in
Copenhagen. Danske Bank traded 1.4 percent higher today at 91.30
kroner at 11:49 a.m.  Loan Losses  Denmark’s banks may face “large” loan losses this year
with most of the risk coming from the real-estate and
agriculture industries, the Financial Supervisory Authority said
on May 5. The country’s banks wrote down 36 billion kroner of
bad loans last year, compared with a record 58 billion kroner a
year earlier, the regulator estimates.  Banks are reducing lending as they face a harsher funding
climate. Since the end of 2008, Danish banks cut loans to
businesses and households by 300 billion kroner, or almost 20
percent, according to the central bank data. The shortfall has
been bridged by mortgage lenders, which boosted loans to farmers
by 24 percent and lent 17 percent more to small business in the
past 2 1/2 years, the central bank estimates.  State guarantees on bank debt issued before the end of
September last year will remain in place until 2013. Bernstein
said in a June 20 interview lenders can’t expect state backing
to continue after that, ignoring pleas from the Association of
Local Banks. The government has also said it won’t extend the
guarantee.  Denmark’s banks have issued bonds for 182 billion kroner
under the state guarantee, the FSA said on May 27.  The Association of Local Banks, which comprises 90 of
Denmark’s roughly 130 lenders, last month called on the
government to extend loan guarantees, as a number of its members
struggle to tap international funding markets.  “If you have a funding need when the state guarantee is no
longer there, you have something you need to work out,” Bech
said. “Even though it’s two years away, it also takes time to
grow your deposit side or shrink your lending side, and that’s
why some banks are in a bit of a hurry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  