-- 
Deutsche Bank’s Whittemore to Co-Head Americas M&A With Evans

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-06-28T22:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/deutsche-bank-says-whittemore-to-co-head-americas-m-a-advisory-with-evans.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DB) , Germany’s biggest
lender, named Anthony Whittemore joint head of the mergers-and-
acquisitions advisory business for the Americas, a bank
spokesman confirmed.  Whittemore, 43, will begin his role next month, said Scott Helfman, a spokesman for the lender. Whittemore is returning
from London, where he was chief operating officer for corporate
finance for about 18 months, Helfman said.  Whittemore, along with co-head Bruce Evans, will oversee an
M&A business that is the eighth-biggest for deals in the
Americas this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Deutsche Bank’s global M&A business, run by Henrik Aslaksen in
London,  brought in  573 euros ($823 million) in fees last year,
or about 7.7 percent of the total revenue from the Frankfurt-
based lender’s divisions.  Deutsche Bank hired Whittemore from New York-based
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  in 2000 to be global head of telecommunications
M&A. The New York Times, citing people it didn’t identify,
reported at the time that he had a three-year pay package worth
at least $18 million. Helfman declined to comment.  Whittemore later left to work for the  World Bank , according
to records on the website of the  Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority . He rejoined Deutsche Bank in 2008.  Whittemore is part of the Deutsche Bank team advising South
Milwaukee, Wisconsin-based  Bucyrus International Inc. (BUCY)  on its
planned $7.6 billion sale to  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  If the deal is
completed, Deutsche Bank may collect a $21.3 million fee.  Armin von Falkenhayn will succeed Whittemore as chief
operating officer for corporate finance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 