-- 
Los Angeles Dodgers Would Command a Record $1 Billion as Iconic Franchise

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-06-28T14:23:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/dodgers-would-fetch-1-billion-because-of-iconic-status-as-l-a-franchise.html
The  Los Angeles Dodgers , who filed
for  bankruptcy protection  yesterday, would command a Major
League Baseball-record $1 billion in a sale, sports bankers
said.  The team filed for protection from creditors after baseball
Commissioner Bud Selig rejected what Dodgers owner Frank McCourt
says is a $3 billion television contract with  News Corp. (NWS) ’s Fox
Sports that would’ve allowed the club to satisfy existing
claims, pay debts as they become due and generate a substantial
return.  The value of the proposed TV contract, the number of
bidders that would be attracted to a sale of a trophy property
and the club’s status as an iconic franchise are among the
factors that might make the Dodgers the first baseball team to
sell for that much.  “I wouldn’t be surprised if it was $1 billion,” said
Gordon Saint-Denis, president of Katonah, New York-based Major
League Sports Consulting LLC, adding that a sale probably would
attract six to eight serious bidders. “It is the Dodgers. It is
L.A., where they could put together some serious consortiums of
wealthy people in the entertainment industry.”  Forbes magazine values the team at $800 million, third-
highest in baseball after the  New York Yankees  and  Boston Red
Sox .  Potential Buyers  Charles Baker, a partner with DLA Piper’s Global Sports
Media and Entertainment Practice, said he’s been approached by
two parties interested in buying the Dodgers. He declined
further comment. Former Dodgers All-Star Orel Hershiser and his
ex-teammate Steve Garvey said they would be interested in
forming an investment group if the team were for sale; Dallas
Mavericks owner Mark Cuban, who bid on the  Chicago Cubs  and
 Texas Rangers , told TMZ.com that he might not be interested
because it may take too long to untangle the franchise’s
finances.  Selig said he rejected the proposed 17-year television
contract because provisions in the agreement allowed McCourt to
divert funds from the team for his personal use, including his
high-profile divorce, harming the franchise in the long term.  The bankruptcy is the most recent development in the saga
of McCourt and the Dodgers, who, while based in  Brooklyn ,  New
York , became the first major league team with a black player
when Jackie Robinson took the field in 1947.  Bankruptcy Filing  The team listed assets of as much as $1 billion and debt of
as much as $500 million in a Chapter 11 petition filed yesterday
in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Manny Ramirez, who last played for the Dodgers in 2010, is
listed as the largest unsecured creditor with a claim of about
$21 million in deferred compensation. Others creditors include
Andruw Jones, who plays for the Yankees and is owed about $11
million and longtime Dodgers announcer Vin Scully, who is owed
about $152,000.  Under terms of McCourt’s ownership agreement, Selig could
seize control of the team and order its sale.  Even with the legal entanglements, former Madison Square
Garden President Bob Gutkowski said the Dodgers would attract
the interest of anyone wishing to own a professional sports
franchise.  “It’s beachfront property,” said Gutkowski, a partner in
the New York-based sports consulting firm  Innovative Strategic
Management.   Fans May Return  David Carter , executive director of the Sports Business
Institute at the University of Southern California’s Marshall
School of Business, said sports fans in the U.S.’s second-
biggest media market would re-engage with the Dodgers if McCourt
didn’t own the club.  “Folks aren’t interested in spending their money,” Carter
said, declining to offer a valuation on the club. “They don’t
know if it’s going to payroll or a divorce attorney.”  Selig issued a statement after the bankruptcy filing that
said the Dodgers are in bankruptcy because of McCourt’s
“excessive debt and his diversion of club assets for his own
personal needs.”  As for the franchise’s financial future, Carter said a
change in ownership would invigorate fans and sponsors.  ‘Room for Growth’  “There’s room for growth at the turnstile, TV,
sponsorship, merchandise,” he said. “The valuation of this
team is not going to be based on the compromised revenue streams
of today. No one is going to buy this team at a bargain-basement
price.”  The Dodgers’ bankruptcy follows the Chapter 11 filing last
year of the Texas Rangers, who were sold at auction to a group
that included Hall of Fame pitcher Nolan Ryan.  The Dodgers have won six  World Series , tied for fifth most
in baseball. Five of them came in  Los Angeles , where Duke
Snider, Sandy Koufax, Fernando Valenzuela and Kirk Gibson played
key roles on title teams.  The Dodgers were a model of stability under the stewardship
of the O’Malley family from 1950-98, fielding just two managers
-- Walter Alston and Tommy Lasorda from 1950-1996.  They had the same infield, Garvey at first, Davey Lopes at
second, Ron Cey at third and Bill Russell at shortstop, for a
baseball-record eight-plus seasons.  The Dodgers entered last night’s game against  Minnesota 
with a 35-44 record, 9 1/2 games behind the defending World
Series champion  San Francisco Giants  in the  National League
West .  “It’s a turnaround,” said Rob Tilliss, founder of Inner
Circle Sports, a sports financial advisory firm. “But there’s
lots of upside.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  