-- 
Dodgers Can Use $60 Million Bankruptcy Loan After League Drops Opposition

-- B y   S t e v e   C h u r c h ,   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-06-29T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/dodgers-win-approval-of-60-million-bankruptcy-loan-as-mlb-ends-opposition.html
The  Los Angeles Dodgers  can use as
much as $60 million of a bankruptcy loan after Major League
Baseball dropped its opposition following changes in the loan’s
terms, a judge ruled.  A requirement that the Dodgers sell television rights
within six months was deleted and a potential fee for the
lender, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Highbridge Capital Management
LLC, was cut to $250,000 from $4.5 million, lawyers for the
Dodgers said yesterday at a hearing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  MLB’s goal yesterday was to stop the Dodgers from trying to
auction the broadcast rights, MLB lawyer  Tom Lauria  said.
Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  last week rejected a proposed
deal with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports, leaving the Dodgers unable to
make payroll, the team said. Dodgers owner  Frank McCourt  said
the 17-year agreement, valued by him at about $3 billion, would
have assured the team’s financial stability.  “My client came here to fight the process being put in
place to start an auction,” Lauria said in an interview. “So
it’s MLB, one, McCourt, zero.”  Bruce Bennett, an attorney for the Dodgers, said the team
filed for bankruptcy to gain time to auction the television
rights. Although the deadline has been removed from the loan
terms, the team still has the right to propose an auction while
under court protection, he said.  MLB Filing  Lawyers for both sides agreed to the loan changes after
meeting for more than an hour during a break in yesterday’s
hearing. MLB said in a court filing earlier that McCourt lacked
authority to put the baseball team into bankruptcy and asked to
replace the proposed rescue loan with a cheaper one.  The Dodgers were required to first obtain the consent of a
monitor appointed by  Major League Baseball  to oversee the team
before filing for bankruptcy, MLB said in the filing. MLB
reserves the right to request a trustee and to ask a judge to
dismiss the case, Lauria said yesterday in court.  “These cases were commenced in an attempt by Mr. McCourt
to circumvent the club’s obligations under its constituent,
governing documents, and to have this court approve additional
debt financing and sale of key assets in violation of those
documents,” the filing said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross gave the team interim
approval to borrow $60 million after approving motions to pay
Dodger employees and two critical vendors, to honor union
contracts and to make revenue-sharing payments to other baseball
clubs. The team must return to court next month to borrow more
under a proposed $150 million facility.  $1 Billion  The Dodgers would command a record $1 billion in a sale,
said sports bankers including Gordon Saint-Denis, president of
Katonah, New York-based Major League Sports Consulting LLC.
Forbes magazine values the team at $800 million, third-highest
in baseball after the  New York Yankees  and  Boston Red Sox .  The Dodgers, which filed for bankruptcy June 27 in what the
baseball team called “a perfect storm,” were offered a
$150 million loan by Highbridge to support operations while in
bankruptcy. The Highbridge loan carries a 10 percent interest
rate, 3 percentage points more than the one proposed by MLB.  The Dodgers need the money to make payroll in two days. The
team “is now on the verge of running out of cash, the result of
a perfect storm of events,” the Dodgers said in court papers
filed June 27. McCourt said the bankruptcy was triggered by
Selig’s refusal to approve the deal with Fox.  ‘Turned His Back’  “He’s turned his back on the Dodgers, treated us
differently, and forced us to the point we find ourselves in
today,” McCourt said in a June 27 statement.  Selig said the bankruptcy “does nothing but inflict
further harm to this historic franchise.”  “We have consistently communicated to Mr. McCourt that any
potential solution to his problems that contemplates mortgaging
the future of the Dodgers franchise to the long-term detriment
of the club, its loyal fans and the game of baseball would not
be acceptable,” Selig said in a statement.  McCourt is also fighting with his ex-wife Jamie McCourt for
ownership of the team in a court in  Los Angeles . Laura Davis Jones, a lawyer for Jamie McCourt, told Gross yesterday that the
Chapter 11 filing “ was sprung on all of us.” Both Jones and
Lauria, the MLB lawyer, said their clients weren’t notified that
the Dodgers intended to file for bankruptcy.  Fox Loan  The Dodgers will pursue a sale of the TV rights while in
bankruptcy, the team said in court papers. The Fox Sports
agreement included a $385 million loan, of which $211.5 million
was to go toward the team’s operations and working capital,
according to court papers.  Lou D’Ermilio , a spokesman for Fox Sports in  New York ,
declined to comment.  William Snyder , who acted as chief restructuring officer
during the bankruptcy of the  Texas Rangers  last year, predicted
McCourt will be successful in selling the TV rights. The Rangers
were sold at auction to a group that included Hall of Fame
pitcher  Nolan Ryan .  “He is taking a good approach in auctioning the rights so
no one can point a finger,” Snyder said.  In April, Selig said he was appointing a representative to
oversee the team’s business and day-to-day operations because of
“deep concerns regarding the finances and operations of the
Dodgers.” He later named Thomas Schieffer, former president of
the Texas Rangers, as the team’s monitor.  Baseball said it was withholding approval until completing
an investigation into the club and its finances. On June 20,
Selig said he was rejecting the transaction, saying in a
statement that it “would have the effect of mortgaging the
future of the franchise to the long-term detriment of the club
and its fans.”  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  