-- 
Dodgers Didn’t Have Authority to File Bankruptcy, MLB Says

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h ,   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-06-28T18:57:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/dodgers-go-to-court-for-bankruptcy-loan-as-mccourt-seeks-television-deal.html
Los Angeles Dodgers owner  Frank McCourt  didn’t have authority to put the baseball team into
bankruptcy, according to Major League Baseball, which asked to
replace the team’s proposed rescue loan with a cheaper one.  The Dodgers were required to first obtain the consent of a
monitor appointed by Major League Baseball to oversee the team
before filing for bankruptcy, MLB said in a court filing today.  Without MLB’s consent, “the case will engender significant
litigation” over the legitimacy of the bankruptcy, according to
a court filing in U.S.  Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware .  “These cases were commenced in an attempt by Mr. McCourt
to circumvent the club’s obligations under its constituent,
governing documents, and to have this court approve additional
debt financing and sale of key assets in violation of those
documents,” the filing said.  Major League Baseball  has asked the bankruptcy court to
determine who should run the team during bankruptcy, McCourt or
the MLB monitor now in charge.  McCourt said in a filing today that MLB’s proposal for
alternative financing for the team is a “thinly veiled”
attempt to take it over. A hearing on the matter is taking place
today before U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross.  At the hearing, Gross approved motions to pay Dodger
employees and critical vendors. A lawyer for the Dodgers asked
for a break about 2:20 p.m. so the team’s attorneys could talk
with Major League Baseball’s.  The Dodgers would command a record $1 billion in a sale,
said sports bankers including Gordon Saint-Denis, president of
Katonah, New York-based Major League Sports Consulting LLC.
Forbes magazine values the team at $800 million, third-highest
in baseball after the  New York Yankees  and  Boston Red Sox .  Highbridge Loan  The Dodgers, which filed for bankruptcy yesterday in what
the baseball team called “a perfect storm,” are scheduled to
seek court permission to draw on a $150 million loan from
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Highbridge Capital Management LLC, to
support operations while in bankruptcy. The Highbridge loan
carries a 10 percent interest rate, 3 more than MLB.  Major League Baseball opposes the financing and is offering
its own loan that it says is “less expensive and otherwise
superior.” Baseball’s proposal eliminates fees, reduces the
interest rate and doesn’t impose “an artificial timeline” for
selling broadcast rights.  The Dodgers, which need cash to make payroll in two days,
proposed using the bankruptcy financing to support operations
while trying to complete a television-rights deal, according to
court documents.  Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  last week rejected a
proposed deal with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports, leaving the Dodgers
unable to make payroll, the team said. McCourt said the 17-year
agreement, valued by him at about $3 billion, would have assured
the team’s financial stability.  Interim Loan  At today’s court hearing, the Dodgers are scheduled to ask
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross for permission to borrow $60
million on an interim basis, according to court papers.  The team “is now on the verge of running out of cash, the
result of a perfect storm of events,” the Dodgers said in court
papers filed yesterday. McCourt said the bankruptcy was
triggered by Selig’s refusal to approve the deal with Fox.  “He’s turned his back on the Dodgers, treated us
differently, and forced us to the point we find ourselves in
today,” McCourt said in a statement yesterday.  Selig said the bankruptcy “does nothing but inflict
further harm to this historic franchise.”  “We have consistently communicated to Mr. McCourt that any
potential solution to his problems that contemplates mortgaging
the future of the Dodgers franchise to the long-term detriment
of the club, its loyal fans and the game of baseball would not
be acceptable,” Selig said in a statement.  TV Rights  The Dodgers will pursue a sale of the TV rights while in
bankruptcy, the team said in court papers. The Fox Sports
agreement included a $385 million loan, of which $211.5 million
was to go toward the team’s operations and working capital,
according to court papers.  William Snyder , who acted as chief restructuring officer
during the bankruptcy of the  Texas Rangers  last year, predicted
McCourt will be successful in selling the TV rights. The Rangers
were sold at auction to a group that included Hall of Fame
pitcher  Nolan Ryan .  “He is taking a good approach in auctioning the rights so
no one can point a finger,” Snyder said.  McCourt put the Dodgers into bankruptcy as a way to hold on
to the team, said Thomas Salerno, an attorney with Squire,
Sanders & Dempsey who represented the Phoenix Coyotes hockey
team during its Chapter 11 case. Bankruptcy blocks Major League
Baseball from taking over and selling the team to a preferred
buyer, said Salerno, who isn’t involved in the case.  “The presumption in Chapter 11 is that he does in fact
maintain control,” Salerno said of McCourt.  Monitor  In April, Selig said he was appointing a representative to
oversee the team’s business and day-to-day operations because of
“deep concerns regarding the finances and operations of the
Dodgers.” He later named Thomas Schieffer, former president of
the Texas Rangers, as the team’s monitor.  Baseball said it was withholding approval until completing
an investigation into the club and its finances. On June 20,
Selig said he was rejecting the transaction, saying in a
statement that it “would have the effect of mortgaging the
future of the franchise to the long-term detriment of the club
and its fans.”  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  