-- 
Dong Signs Supply Deal for 600 Turbine Foundations to Cut Costs

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-06-28T16:38:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/dong-signs-supply-deal-for-600-turbine-foundations-to-cut-costs.html
Dong Energy A/S, the largest
operator of offshore wind farms, is seeking to lower the cost of
developing power projects by signing a long-term supply contract
for turbine foundations that will be made by Bladt Industries
A/S.  The agreement gives the energy company the option to buy as
many as 600 of the structures, the industry’s first foundation
supply deal that covers multiple offshore wind farms, Skaerbaek,
Denmark-based Dong said today in a  statement . Terms weren’t
disclosed.  European utilities planning large-scale offshore wind
projects want to curb the technology’s costs as governments
simultaneously bet on it to meet targets for using renewable
energy. The size will likely ensure lower prices for the
foundations, said Fraser Johnston, a wind industry analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “By contracting the supply chain in bulk for their entire
portfolio rather than multicontracting each project they will
cut a portion of expense,” he said by e-mail.  Johnston said 600 foundations are enough to support 2,160
megawatts to 3,600 megawatts of wind-energy capacity, depending
on the size of the turbines. That may surpass the 3,000
megawatts of total offshore wind capacity that was installed in
 Europe  at the end of last year, according to New Energy Finance.
Foundations attach turbines to the seabed.  Cutting Costs  Dong wants to cut the costs of offshore wind projects by as
much as 30 percent by 2020, Niels Bergh-Hansen, an executive
vice president at the energy company, said in an interview in
 London  in February. Dong signed a similar deal, which it
describes as a framework  agreement , in 2009 with the German
turbine-maker Siemens AG for as many as 575  wind turbines .  Bladt Industries, an Aalborg, Denmark-based maker of steel
structures for the oil, gas and marine sectors, supplied
foundations for Dong’s 209-megawatt Horns Rev 2 offshore wind
farm in the  North Sea  and has agreed to do so at Dong’s planned
400-megawatt wind farm off the Danish island of Anholt. It will
also be the the supplier for the 1,000-megawatt London Array
offshore park in the outer Thames Estuary, the world’s largest
approved offshore facility.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  