-- 
Emaar, Rabigh Refining, Zain: Persian Gulf Equity Preview

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-06-28T05:27:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/dubai-s-emirates-nbd-and-sipchem-persian-gulf-equity-preview.html
The following stocks may rise or
fall in Persian Gulf markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses
and prices are from the last close.  Abu Dhabi’s measure retreated 0.5 percent, while  Saudi
Arabia ’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  slipped 0.1 percent. Dubai’s
 DFM General Index (DFMGI)  rose 0.3 percent.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  : The United Arab Emirates’
biggest developer by market value said it sold 409 units in a
property project in Syria. Separately, unit Emaar Hospitality
Group LLC named Patrick Heuze as its chief executive officer,
replacing Marc Dardenne. Emaar shares increased 0.3 percent to
3.03 dirhams.  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  : The U.A.E.’s biggest bank
by assets said its new board of directors held its first meeting
with Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum as chairman and that it
reviewed the bank’s plans and performance in the first half. The
shares rose 1.2 percent to 4.18 dirhams.        Saudi International Petrochemical Co. (SIPCHEM)  : The
petrochemical company’s Islamic bond is said to yield between
175 basis points and 185 basis points over the three-month
Sibor, according to one banker familiar with the transaction.
The shares gained 0.5 percent to 21.45 riyals.       Mobile Telecommunications Co. (ZAIN KK): The Kuwaiti phone
operator said Chief Operating Officer Abdul Malik al-Jaber will
leave the company when his contract expires at the end of the
month. The shares retreated 1.9 percent to 1,020 fils.        Rabigh Refining & Petrochemicals Co. (PETROR)  : The
petrochemicals company was started with a “neutral” rating and
assigned a price estimate of 29 riyals at HSBC Holdings Plc. The
shares advanced 0.4 percent to 26.4 riyals.  AlDrees Petroleum (ALDREES)  : The operator of gasoline
service stations was started with an "overweight" rating and a
price estimate of 60 riyals at HSBC. The shares were unchanged
at 44.8 riyals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  