-- 
E-Reader Ownership Doubles in Six Months, Outpaces Tablets

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-06-28T22:18:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/e-reader-ownership-doubles-in-six-months-outpaces-tablet-growth.html
The number of Americans who own an
electronic reader such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle doubled in
six months, as college graduates and adults in the highest
income category increasingly choose the devices over tablet
computers, according to a Pew Research Center survey.  Twelve percent of those surveyed owned an e-reader in May,
up from 6 percent in November 2010 and less than 3 percent in
April 2009, when Pew began tracking the device. Today, Hispanic
adults are more likely to own an e-reader than any other
demographic, and adults earning more than $75,000 a year are
more likely to own an e-reader than any other income group,
according to the  survey .  “These are the newer, sexier devices that people are
interested in,” said Kristen Purcell, associate director for
research at  the Washington-based Pew Internet Project . “It’s
younger adults, wealthier adults and college-educated adults who
are adopting them.”  Growth in ownership of e-readers, such as the Kindle and
 Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) ’s Nook, has outpaced that of tablet
computers, including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc.’s Xoom. Of those surveyed by Pew, 8 percent owned
tablets in May, up from 5 percent in November. Purcell said
tablets “got a boost” in the summer and fall of 2010 leading
into the holiday season.  The reason for e-readers’ faster adoption may be that they
are often less expensive than tablets, with the Kindle starting
at $114 compared with the iPad 2’s $499.  ‘Adoption Story’  The trend toward e-readers represents a broader movement
toward smaller, more mobile devices, Purcell said.  “It’s the same trend we saw with the adoption of cell
phones: Over time, we will see these devices grow into more
diverse segments of the population,” she said. “This is very
early in the adoption story.”  Peter Osnos, the 67-year-old founder of New York-based
 PublicAffairs Books , said the movement should be embraced by
publishers and authors.  “Whatever your attitude toward it, the best thing a
publisher can do is to figure out how to take advantage of it,”
he said. “It is increasingly clear that a transformation is
taking place.”  PublicAffairs publishes its books simultaneously in print
and in electronic format to take advantage of the trend toward
digital readers.  Publishing books on e-readers is made easier by low cost in
production and in opportunity, Osnos said. In contrast, media
organizations that move to e-readers must find ways to integrate
subscribers and entice advertisers to follow, he said.  “We never had advertising, so we didn’t lose it, and we
never had subscribers, so we didn’t lose them either,” Osnos
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at  dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  