-- 
Medtronic’s Infuse Studies Failed to Report Serious Risks, Surgeons Say

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-06-28T21:29:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/medtronic-s-infuse-studies-failed-to-report-serious-risks-surgeons-say.html
Studies of  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ’s Infuse,
used to spur bone growth after spinal surgery, failed to
disclose serious and potentially life-threatening side effects,
leading to excess use of the product, researchers said.  None of the 13 trials involving 780 patients, funded by
Minneapolis-based Medtronic, reported any adverse events from
the product, according to a review led by Eugene Carragee, chief
of spinal surgery at Stanford School of Medicine in  Palo Alto ,
 California . Data provided to  U.S. regulators  and other
publications showed up to 50 percent of patients suffered side
effects, including infection, pain, cyst formation and cancer,
the reviewers said.  Infuse attracted greater scrutiny after it gained marketing
approval in 2002 when patients began reporting unanticipated
side effects, said Carragee, who published a report last month
showing the device can lead to infertility in men. The U.S.
Senate Finance Committee last week asked Medtronic to detail
payments to doctors who conducted research on the bone product.  “We don’t think it should be pulled from the market, but
people need to have a realistic idea of what the risks are,”
Carragee said in a telephone interview. “Patients and families
should have a discussion with their doctors that’s not based on
the idea that there are no complications.”  Two reviews, two studies and an editorial appear in a
special issue of  The Spine Journal  today devoted to Infuse.  “While the Spine Journal articles raise questions about
researchers’ conclusions in their published peer-reviewed
literature, the articles do not raise questions about the data
Medtronic submitted to the FDA in the approval process or the
information available to physicians today through the
instructions for use brochure attached to each product sold,”
Omar Ishrak, Medtronic’s chairman and chief executive officer,
said in a statement. “Based on that data, we strongly believe
that the safety profile reported to the FDA and summarized in
the product label support the safe use” of Infuse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  