-- 
Medtronic Accuses Edwards of Infringing Heart Valve Patents

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-06-28T15:16:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/medtronic-accuses-edwards-of-infringing-heart-valve-patents.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  sued Edwards
Lifesciences Corp. in two U.S. lawsuits accusing the company of
infringing patents on a heart valve system.  Edwards’s products, including the Embol-X Glide Protection
System and the Perimount Mitral Valve, use patented technology
without permission, Medtronic said in a lawsuit filed June 24 in
federal court in St. Paul, Minnesota. Medtronic’s CoreValve unit
also sued on June 27 in  California , claiming the Sapien
transcatheter valve made by Edwards infringes a separate patent.  Edwards, the world’s biggest maker of heart valves,
reported a 25 percent jump in first-quarter sales in its heart-
valve therapy unit, to $244.9 million. The Perimount valve is
“the most prescribed tissue heart valve in the world,” Irvine,
California-based Edwards said in its annual report.  Sapien, in which an aortic valve is threaded into the
cardiac chamber to  avoid  chest-cracking surgery, is awaiting
U.S. regulatory approval. An advisory panel with the U.S.  Food
and Drug Administration  is scheduled to review the application
on July 20.  If Sapien, as well as a competing product by CoreValve, are
cleared for use in the U.S., they could generate sales of $2.4
billion and account for more than one in three aortic valve
repairs by 2015,  Larry Biegelsen , a Wells Fargo Securities
analyst in  New York , said in April. The products already have
approval in Europe.  In both lawsuits, Minneapolis-based Medtronic, the world’s
biggest maker of heart-rhythm devices, is seeking cash
compensation for the unauthorized use of its technology, plus
orders to prevent future infringement.  $73.9 Million Verdict  Edwards and Medtronic have sued each other in the U.K. and
Germany as well as the U.S. over heart valve technology. Edwards
won a $73.9 million verdict in Wilmington, Delaware, in 2010
that’s being appealed by Medtronic.  The Perimount case is Medtronic Inc. v.  Edwards
Lifesciences Corp. (EW) , 11cv1650, U.S. District Court for the
District of Minnesota (St. Paul), and the Sapien case is
Medtronic CoreValve LLC v. Edwards Lifesciences Corp., 11cv961,
U.S. District Court for the Central District of California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  