-- 
Tepco Shareholders Turn Out in Record Number at First Meeting Since Crisis

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-06-28T07:55:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/tepco-faces-protests-at-shareholder-meeting.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co.
shareholders turned up in record numbers at their first meeting
since the crisis at the company’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant wiped about $36 billion off its market value.  An earthquake and tsunami on March 11 caused meltdowns at
the plant north of Tokyo, triggering the worst nuclear accident
in 25 years. The catastrophe displaced 50,000 households after
radiation leaked into the air, soil and sea. Shareholders of the
company known as Tepco voted today to reject a proposal to
abandon nuclear power and in support of 17 company nominees to
the board.  “There is only so much renewable energy we can use,” said
shareholder Naoyuki Nemoto, 31, adding he opposed the motion on
atomic power. “We have no other choice but to rely on
nuclear.”  Tepco, which has plunged 85 percent since the earthquake,
arranged extra seating as shareholder attendance swelled to
9,309. The company, which had planned for 5,600 attendees, said
the previous high was 3,342 last year.  In the main conference room where the meeting was held, one
shareholder interrupted proceedings shouting at outgoing
President  Masataka Shimizu  about not being allowed in to voice
his opinion. The man was ushered out by security.  Scuffles also broke out as shareholders clamored to get in
the room and struggled with guards to make their voices heard.  Chairman Apologizes  Shareholders asked the company about how it will meet
compensation claims and pay for extra fuel to fire thermal
stations after closing all but one of its nuclear stations.  “On behalf of all of the executives I want to apologize to
investors and local people for all the trouble caused by the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi accident,” Chairman  Tsunehisa Katsumata  said
at the meeting. “We are also working on compensating the
victims in a timely and fair manner in accordance with the
nuclear power compensation law.”  Tepco may face as much as 11 trillion yen ($136 billion) in
compensation claims, according to Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch unit. The utility posted a loss of 1.25 trillion
yen for the year ended March 31, including a 1.1 trillion yen
charge related to costs from the accident.  Before the meeting shareholders opposed to nuclear energy
were encouraged to gather in Shiba Park, which surrounds the
meeting venue, according to a protester  website .  Protesters, Police  Earlier, six police buses and other official vehicles were
parked outside the hotel located near the landmark Tokyo Tower,
which is still bent at the tip from the earthquake that led to
the troubles facing the utility.  Tepco shares ended unchanged at 316 yen at the 3 p.m. close
in Tokyo. Moody Investor Services cut the utility’s credit
rating to junk on June 20, following Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services decision to drop it to below-investment grade on May
30. Japanese credit rating companies still maintain investment-
grade rankings on the company’s debt.  Some shareholders came to support Tepco.  “It’s harsh to make the company solely responsible,” said
Saiichi Kaneko, 77, a retiree and shareholder, speaking outside
the meeting venue. “The government gave permission for nuclear
power. We need nuclear power.”  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s cabinet agreed on June 14 to
provide a safety net for Tepco while it pays claims for damages
related to the nuclear accident.  State Aid  Japan  is considering about 230 billion yen in outlays to
aid Tepco and radiation monitoring in its planned 2 trillion yen
supplementary budget, according to a draft outline prepared by
the  Finance Ministry . The budget still needs parliamentary
approval.  A group of shareholders has been proposing a motion to stop
Tepco from using atomic energy for the past two decades, each
time failing at the annual meeting.  “We want you to make a courageous decision so that there
will not be another Fukushima,” Haruna Takita, 33, said via
loudspeaker to shareholders lined up outside the Prince Park
Tower Hotel in Tokyo before the meeting. “Think about children
and their future,” said Takita, a protester who comes from
Koriyama City, 60 kilometers west of the damaged plant.  Tepco has opposed the proposal of withdrawing from nuclear
power generation, saying that it’s a matter for the board.  The previous longest  shareholders’ meeting  was in 1999,
lasting 3 hours and 42 minutes, according to Tepco. The company
had 933,031 shareholders as of March 31.  The cost of dismantling the Fukushima plant may reach 20
trillion yen and compensation for households in a 20-kilometer
evacuation zone may total 630 billion yen over 10 years,
according to the  Japan Center for Economic Research .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  