-- 
Tepco, Chubu Rally Around Japan Nuclear Future, Defying Growing Opposition

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 
2011-06-29T09:09:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/tepco-chubu-rally-around-nuclear-future.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. led
Japanese utilities in rallying around a nuclear future, defying
growing public opposition to atomic energy after the worst
radiation accident in 25 years.  Shareholders of Tepco, as  Japan ’s biggest utility is known,
voted to continue with nuclear power yesterday at the company’s
first annual meeting since the crisis at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant wiped about $36 billion off its market value.
Kansai Electric Power Co. today reinforced the status quo, with
shareholders rejecting a motion to halt reactors.  The votes in the wake of the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami that caused meltdowns at Fukushima show Japan’s reliance
on atomic energy even as opposition grows. Shareholders of
Tohoku Electric Power Co. and other regional energy providers
also voted down proposals against nuclear power.  “Everybody in Japan has a stake in the country’s energy
future, even if they don’t own a stake in a power company,”
 Jeff Kingston , head of  Temple University ’s Asian Studies program
at its Tokyo campus, said by telephone. The utilities are
“trying as desperately as possible to  circle the wagons ,
marginalize public opinion and proceed with business as usual,”
he said.  Kansai Electric, dependent on atomic energy for 43 percent
of its power output and Tepco’s biggest domestic rival, faced
comments from shareholders for almost five hours, its longest
annual meeting. Osaka Mayor Kunio Hiramatsu, whose city is the
utility’s biggest shareholder, called on the company to develop
alternatives to nuclear energy.  Sustaining Growth  “With the stability of our electricity supply in question,
governments and citizens need to discuss adopting energy
policies that sustain economic growth,” Hiramatsu said. “We
should cooperate with industry in these efforts.”  Tepco President Toshio Nishizawa, who took over after the
shareholders meeting, plans to hold on to assets related to its
power business and sell recreation facilities and shareholdings
in its affiliates, he said in a June 16 interview that was
embargoed until late yesterday.  “Each asset needs to be sold at the best time and in the
best way,” said Nishizawa, 60, adding that the utility will
rely on government funding for compensation payments to victims.  Tepco plans to sell its “non-core” assets within three
years, Nishizawa said today at his first press conference since
he was confirmed as president of the utility.  LNG Supply  As part of the fund-raising efforts, Tepco may package the
building housing its headquarters in central  Tokyo  into
securities for sale, the Tokyo Shimbun reported today citing
Nishizawa. The building may be valued at 39 billion yen ($481
million), the newspaper said.  Liquefied natural gas-fired plants will become the main
source of electricity generation for Tepco, the Nikkei newspaper
reported today, citing Nishizawa. The company plans to join an
Australian project that will supply 20 percent of its LNG
requirements, he told the Nikkei, which didn’t identify the
venture.  Tepco annually imports about 20 million metric tons of LNG,
or about 28 percent of Japan’s overall purchases of the fuel,
according to data compiled by the company and the  finance
ministry .  Kansai Electric, which supplies Japan’s second-largest
commercial region, this month joined Tepco in asking users to
cut consumption this summer by 15 percent to avert blackouts
after the disaster led to the closure of some plants and delayed
resumption of others shut for maintenance.  ‘Tepco Needs Nuclear’  Nuclear power accounted for almost a third of Japan’s
energy requirements before the disaster.  “I was against the proposal to withdraw from nuclear
power,” Takaaki Matsui, a 27-year-old engineer and shareholder
of Tepco, said after attending the company’s annual meeting
yesterday. “Tepco needs nuclear power to keep supply and demand
balanced.”  The votes of support came a week after Katsuhiko Ishibashi,
a seismology professor at Kobe University, called for the
closure of the nation’s 54 atomic reactors because none of them
can be guaranteed to withstand strong earthquakes.  Ishibashi earlier warned of a catastrophic nuclear disaster
after Tepco’s Kashiwazaki Kariwa station was damaged by an
earthquake in 2007, leading to radiation leaks.  Opposition to nuclear power is increasing in Japan
following the crisis.  The Nikkei newspaper reported this week that 69 percent of
respondents to a telephone poll oppose the restart of nuclear
reactors currently shut for maintenance.  Nuclear Opposition  About 47 percent of 893 people polled from June 24 to June
26 want to reduce the number of atomic plants, an increase of 5
percent from a month earlier, the newspaper said.  The Fukushima disaster displaced 50,000 households after
radiation leaked into the air, soil and sea. Tepco may face as
much as 11 trillion yen in compensation claims, according to
Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  The utility posted a loss of 1.25 trillion yen for the year
ended March 31, including a 1.1 trillion yen charge related to
costs from the accident.  Tepco, whose shares have plunged 85 percent since the
earthquake, had record attendance at yesterday’s meeting with
9,309 shareholders, compared with the company’s expectations of
5,600. It was the longest meeting on record, the company said.  A group of shareholders that’s been proposing a motion to
stop Tepco from using atomic energy for the past two decades,
tried again to rally support for withdrawing from nuclear
energy. The proposal was voted down.  “We can’t give up on this - it’s too important,” said
Hisataka Yamasaki, a member of the shareholders group that
brought the proposal against nuclear power at Tepco’s meeting
yesterday. “Everybody knew that Dai-Ichi was at risk from an
earthquake and tsunami. It shows how hard it is to change the
government’s view of nuclear that the company wasn’t forced to
make the proper preparations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  