-- 
Merrill, UBS Committed Fraud on Swaps, Lombardy Region Tells U.K. Court

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-06-28T10:56:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/merrill-ubs-commit-fraud-on-swaps-lombardy-tells-u-k-court.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill
Lynch unit and  UBS AG (UBSN)  committed fraud and made “an unfair
profit” through hidden fees charged on swaps, according to U.K.
court filings by the Italian region of Lombardy, which must set
aside millions of euros to cover potential Greek bond losses.  Both banks “deliberately failed to disclose the implicit
costs of the transaction, intending to derive an advantage”
from the region’s “inexperience and ignorance,” lawyers for
Lombardy said in court filings this month.  The region was responding to lawsuits filed by Merrill
Lynch and UBS at the  High Court  in  London  last July. The banks
are seeking confirmation that derivatives contracts with the
region, home to  Italy ’s financial capital Milan, are valid.  The case centers on a 2002 agreement between the banks and
the region that changed the way Lombardy would repay a $1
billion 30-year bond. Under the deal, Lombardy was to make the
payments in installments instead of a so-called bullet repayment
when the bond matured. The banks set up a fund to invest the
city’s payments in securities, such as sovereign bonds, until
the debt matured. Lombardy said in a statement yesterday it will
set aside 153 million euros ($218 million) for potential losses
on Greek bonds held in the fund.  Lombardy claims Merrill hid 59.39 million euros in costs
from the region, and that UBS hid 35.95 million euros on the $1
billion deal. The costs were “abnormal and exorbitant,”
because “a reasonable or normal implicit cost of the sinking
fund was nil,” the region said. If the costs were known,
Lombardy wouldn’t have entered into the transaction, it said.  ‘Truffa’ Claim  UBS, and its banker Gaetano Bassolino, Merrill and its
banker Daniele Borrega committed “truffa,” Lombardy said in
the filing, using the Italian word for fraud.  “I was 25, had recently graduated, and had a junior role
on the desk at the time of the transactions,” Bassolino said. A
spokeswoman for UBS declined to comment further.  Borrega, who like Bassolino was authorized by the U.K.
securities regulator at the time of the deals, declined to
comment through a bank spokesman. A spokesman for the region
also declined to comment.  “The crime of truffa is committed where a bank employee
does not accurately reveal all the elements of the financial
operation proposed to a client and thereby knowingly gains an
advantage for the bank,” according to Lombardy’s filing.  A probe by Milan’s prosecutor found the banks hid 95
million euros in fees when they sold the region derivatives. The
prosecutor dropped his investigation last year because it would
have breached the statute of limitations.  Diversifying Risk  The region also said it’s concerned that the banks, which
are still managing the fund, aren’t meeting the requirements by
sufficiently diversifying the risk.  Lombardy agreed that Merrill Lynch could invest in
securities such as corporate bonds that might be less liquid
than  government bonds  and that the fund could have “certain
leveraged positions,” the banks have said in filings. The
municipality also agreed to pay Merrill Lynch the difference
between the market value of bonds and their principal value in
the event of a default, Merrill said in a court filing.  Lombardy “was acting for its own account and had made its
own independent decisions to enter the transaction and as to
whether the transaction was appropriate or proper for it based
upon its own judgment,” Merrill Lynch said in its lawsuit.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 