-- 
MetLife Said to Be in Talks to Name Giants, Jets NFL Stadium

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-06-28T17:28:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/metlife-said-to-be-in-talks-to-put-its-name-on-giants-jets-nfl-stadium.html
The  New York Giants  and Jets are in
talks with  MetLife Inc. (MET)  that may put the biggest U.S. life
insurer’s name on the National Football League teams’ shared
stadium in New Jersey, according to a person familiar with the
talks.  MetLife would become the primary naming rights partner of
the only building in the U.S.’s most-popular sport shared by two
teams and the home of the 2014  Super Bowl , according to the
person, who declined to be identified because talks are ongoing.  Giants spokesman Pat Hanlon and Jets spokesman Bruce Speight declined to comment in e-mails.  Christopher Breslin , a
MetLife spokesman, also declined to comment.  The naming rights package being negotiated would average
between $17 million and $18 million a year, according to the
Sports Business Journal, which reported the talks yesterday,
citing a person it didn’t identify. MetLife is one of four so-
called cornerstone partners in the $1.6 billion stadium that
opened last year in East Rutherford,  New Jersey , paying about $7
million for in-stadium branding.  MetLife Chairman Robert Henrikson, whose tenure as chief
executive officer ended in May, told investors in December that
five years ago he turned down an opportunity to put MetLife’s
name on “a big sports enterprise.” Since then, the company has
increased spending on advertising and promotion of its Snoopy
logo. The white and black dog, a creation from Charles Schulz’s
“Peanuts” comic strip, appears on MetLife’s home page and its
blimp.  The company is a sponsor of the U.S. PGA tour and its
 branded blimps  appear at golf tournaments and other sports
events.  “People love Snoopy places we thought they might not like
Snoopy at all,” Henrikson said in a May conference call with
analysts. “Do the Japanese love the MetLife blimp doing the
golf tournaments in Japan? You betcha.”  Insurers’ Agreements  Insurers  Progressive Corp. (PGR)  and Farmers Group Inc. have
naming rights deals to U.S. stadiums. Progressive Field is home
to baseball’s  Cleveland Indians . Farmers said in February it
would purchase naming rights to a planned NFL stadium in Los
Angeles.  New Meadowlands Stadium Co. in September 2008 said it would
end talks with Europe’s biggest insurer,  Allianz SE , after
protests by Jewish groups including the Anti-Defamation League
that the company once insured Auschwitz.  MetLife, which held more than $450 billion of investments
at the end of March, has expanded outside the U.S. as growth in
its home market has slowed. Last year, MetLife spent more than
$16 billion to acquire a unit from  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 