-- 
Euro Gains on Greece Plan Optimism; Dollar Rises Versus Yen on U.S. Yields

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-06-28T21:23:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/euro-fluctuates-versus-dollar-before-greek-vote-on-austerity-krona-sinks.html
The euro gained against the majority
of its most-traded counterparts on speculation  Greece ’s
parliament will approve an austerity package needed to ensure
more financial aid.  The dollar reached the strongest level against the yen in
three weeks as U.S. Treasury yields jumped. The euro erased
losses versus the greenback after European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said policy makers are in “strong
vigilance mode,” signaling they intend to raise  interest rates 
next week. Sweden’s krona tumbled to a seven-month low against
the euro after retail sales slumped.  “My sense is that the widespread market expectation is a
yes vote and a favorable outcome,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head
of currency strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “The
reaction in the euro to a yes vote will probably be the same as
it was with the confidence vote last week. The euro will go a
little higher, but not far or for long.”  The euro rose 0.6 percent to $1.4371 at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
from $1.4287 yesterday. The gain reduced the shared currency’s
loss versus the greenback for the month to 0.2 percent. It has
risen 1.5 percent for the quarter. The euro gained 0.9 percent
to 116.58 yen, from 115.58 yen. It has lost 0.7 percent for the
month and dropped 1 percent for the quarter.  The Swiss franc reached a record high against the dollar,
touching 82.76 centimes. The euro rose 0.2 percent against the
franc to 1.1957, from 1.1933 yesterday. It touched a record low
of 1.1806 on June 24.  Treasury Yields  The dollar strengthened against the yen as 10-year U.S.
Treasury yields rose above 3 percent for the first time in
almost a week, increasing the appeal to international investors.  The greenback gained as much as 0.5 percent to touch 81.27
yen, the highest level since June 2, before trading at 81.12
yen, up 0.3 percent. The 10-year U.S. yield increased 10 basis
points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 3.03 percent, making the
debt more attractive than comparable Japanese debt, which yields
1.09 percent.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, fell 0.5 percent to 75.034.  “This is a premature broad-based rally for risk because
the market sees the reality of the sovereign-debt default as its
major obstacle, so it’s jumping the hurdle today of the Greek
parliamentary vote, assuming it goes through and that the
world’s problems are solved,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , senior
market analyst at Interactive Brokers Group LLC in Greenwich,
 Connecticut .  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.3 percent. The
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials increased
for the first time in five days, climbing 1.7 percent.  Greek Votes  Greek lawmakers vote tomorrow on the austerity package and
vote later on a measure implementing it. Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won a confidence vote last week 155-143.  The euro rose after Trichet’s comments at a press
conference in Amsterdam. The ECB raised its benchmark rate in
April for the first time in almost three years, lifting it by a
quarter point to 1.25 percent.  “The ECB is moving ahead with tightening and trying to be
as independent as it possibly can,” said  Stephen Gallo , head of
market analysis at Schneider Foreign Exchange in  London . “It’s
trying to show the markets that it’s trying to stay out of the
situation and put as much burden on as they can on the
politicians.”  German Banks  Germany ’s biggest banks and insurers will meet with the
 Finance Ministry  in Berlin tomorrow as they seek to reach an
agreement on their role in a Greek aid package, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter.  Under a French proposal, half the Greek debt held by banks
and insurers maturing in the next three years would be swapped
for new 30-year Greek bonds. The redemptions from another 20
percent would be invested in a special purpose vehicle that
would serve as collateral for the banks, two people familiar
with the plan said.  One-month implied volatility for the euro-dollar  exchange
rate  snapped a three-day advance, declining to 13.1. It was at
12.3 percent at the beginning of the month.  The Swedish krona plunged to its weakest level in almost
seven months against the euro after  Statistics Sweden  said
retail sales slipped to an annual 1.1 percent in May.  Data Impact Limited  “You saw Sweden react to weak retail sales, but the impact
of data is much more limited than is normally the case,” said
Steven Englander, head of Group of 10 currency strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in New York. “It’s just European headlines
today.”  The currency slid to 9.2738 to the euro, the weakest level
since Nov. 29, before trading at 9.25, down 0.6 percent.  The krona has dropped 3 percent over the past month, making
it the worst performer among 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The
Swiss franc climbed 3.1 percent, and the euro gained 1.2
percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  