-- 
European Stocks Advance; Standard Chartered Rises, TomTom Slides

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-06-28T16:14:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/european-stock-futures-gain-standard-chartered-may-climb-tomtom-may-drop.html
European stocks gained as investors
speculated that Greek lawmakers will heed Prime Minister George Papandreou’s call to approve a package of austerity measures.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  rose 2.7 percent after the U.K.’s
third-largest bank by market value said first-half profit before
taxes may post “double-digit” growth from a year earlier.
 Prudential Plc (PRU)  climbed 2.6 percent after  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  upgraded the U.K.’s largest insurer to “buy.” TomTom NV
plunged 27 percent after cutting full-year profit and sales
forecasts as U.S. demand for its devices declined.  The benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index increased 0.5 percent
to 265.23 at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . Since its peak this
year on Feb. 17, the gauge has  tumbled 8.9 percent  as investors
speculated that  Greece  will fail to repay all its debt. The
retreat has left the measure trading at the  cheapest valuation 
compared with reported profits since 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Without Europe’s debt crisis, the environment is positive
for equities,” said Thilo Mueller, who helps manage 120 million
euros ($172 million) at MB Fund Advisory GmbH in Limburg,
 Germany . “Equities are cheap and economic data and company’s
earnings are good. If the Greek parliament votes for austerity
measures, this will help ease concern in the market.”  National benchmark indexes gained in all of the western
European markets except Iceland and Belgium. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index advanced 0.8 percent.  France ’s  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  climbed 1.5
percent, while Germany’s DAX Index added 0.9 percent.  Greece’s Austerity Vote  Papandreou faces his second survival test in a week
tomorrow when lawmakers vote on the package of budget cuts and
asset sales that’s needed before Greece can get the fifth loan
payment from last year’s 110 billion-euro rescue. Failure to
pass Papandreou’s 78 billion-euro plan may lead to the euro
area’s first sovereign-debt default.  The first session of the three-day debate began in  Athens 
yesterday. The Greek parliament will vote on June 29. Lawmakers
also need to pass an implementation law, which provides the
technical details of how the five-year plan will be applied, by
June 30. Unions began their fourth general strike of the year at
midnight, protesting against the plan.  Greece’s ASE Index rose 2.7 percent today as Alpha Bank SA
surged 4.3 percent to 3.42 euros and  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) ,
the  country’s largest lender , soared 5.4 percent to 4.90 euros.
EFG Eurobank Ergasias rallied 5.8 percent to 3.26 euros.  European Central Bank Executive Board member Juergen Stark
said he does not expect the international community to finance
Greece further after July if the country fails to implement its
austerity plan, Die Welt reported citing an interview.  Debt Payments  HSBC Holdings Plc Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver 
said the bank and other lenders have discussed Greece’s debt
payments with the Institute of International Finance.  “There appears to be an emerging consensus that agreement
is a week or two away,” the CEO said on the sidelines of a
conference in London today.  In the U.S., house prices decreased in April, showing that
the housing market remains an obstacle to the economic recovery.
The  S&P/Case-Shiller index  of property values in 20 cities fell
4 percent from April 2010, the biggest year-on-year drop since
November 2009. That matched the  median forecast  of 30 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report showed that  consumer
confidence  dropped to a seven-month low in June.  ‘Muted’ Growth  Standard Chartered gained 2.7 percent to 1,581 pence after
the London-based bank said income from markets including Hong
Kong,  Singapore  and  China  helped offset a decline in  India  and
“muted” growth in  Africa . Net interest margins, a measure of
profitability for its lending businesses, were “broadly flat”
for the group from the previous full year.  Banking shares were the second-best performers in the  Stoxx
600 (SXXP)  today.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Credit Suisse AG, which Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. named as two of its preferred stocks, rose 2.4
percent to 14.77 Swiss francs and 0.8 percent to 31.88 francs,
respectively.  Prudential increased 2.6 percent to 705.5 pence after the
insurer was raised to “buy” from “neutral” at Goldman Sachs.
The brokerage also upgraded  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) , the
U.K.’s fourth-biggest insurer by market value, and St. James’s
Place Plc, the wealth manager majority-owned by Lloyds Banking
Group Plc. Legal & General rose 1.3 percent to 111 pence and St.
James’s Place advanced 0.6 percent to 321 pence.  Sporting Goods  Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-largest sporting-goods maker,
jumped 3.9 percent to 53.78 euros after  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s
 largest sporting-goods company , posted fourth-quarter per-share
earnings of $1.24. Analysts had predicted $1.17, according to
the  average estimate  in a Bloomberg survey.  Puma AG, the sporting-goods brand known for its leaping cat
logo, increased 2.6 percent to 210.35 euros.  Carrefour SA (CA)  advanced 3.7 percent to 27.44 euros. The
world’s second-largest retailer by sales said it had received a
proposal from the Gama investment fund to merge its Brazilian
assets with those of Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao
de Acucar. The company’s board will review the proposal, which
would create  Brazil ’s largest retailer, according to a
statement.  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA sank 5.6 percent to 62.20
euros, its lowest price in 11 months. The rival French
supermarket operator, which owns 37 percent of Pao de Acucar,
said Gama’s proposal to Carrefour is a “long-standing illegal
planned financial transaction.”  K+S AG,  Europe’s biggest potash producer , gained 2 percent
to 52.22 euros after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its potash
price forecasts for the last half of 2011 and 2012 by 6 to 9
percent.  TomTom Tumbles  TomTom (TOM2)  slumped 27 percent to 3.58 euros, its largest
retreat in more than six years, after Europe’s biggest maker of
portable navigation devices said earnings per share will be 25
euro cents to 30 cents in 2011. In April, the company predicted
“broadly flat” earnings per share compared with 49 cents in
2010. Full-year sales will be 1.23 billion euros to 1.28 billion
euros, about 14 percent less than an earlier range and a second
cut this year.  Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc plunged 14 percent to 45
pence, its largest drop in three months, after saying that its
profit this year will miss estimates because of slower-than-
expected sales orders. The telecommunications company also said
it accepted the resignation of Chief Executive Officer Jim Marsh
with immediate effect. Chairman John Pluthero will take the CEO
role, the company said in a statement.  Colruyt NV slumped 13 percent to 32.80 euros, the biggest
decline since 1991, after Belgium’s biggest discount food
retailer reported full-year profit that missed  analysts’
estimates .  Siemens AG (SIE)  declined 1.9 percent to 91 euros as Europe’s
largest engineering company said it must increase efforts to
foster growth in the second half because the stimulus from the
global economic recovery is fading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  