-- 
Euro Falls on Concern Greece May Struggle to Pass Budget Cuts; Yen Gains

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-06-28T06:19:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/euro-maintains-gain-as-greek-debt-plan-eases-default-concern-dollar-slips.html
The euro fell against the dollar and
yen, reversing earlier gains, before Greek lawmakers vote on
budget cuts needed to prevent the currency union’s first
default.  The 17-nation currency slid after the Die Welt newspaper
cited European Central Bank Executive Board member Juergen Stark
as saying he doesn’t expect the international community to
finance Greece further after July if the country doesn’t
implement its austerity plan. The won snapped a three-day
decline after a report showed  South Korea ’s current account
surplus widened. The yen rose on speculation exporters bought
the currency after its decline to more than one-week low.  “The market is nervous before Greece votes on austerity
measures,” said Yuki Sakasai, a foreign-exchange strategist at
Barclays Bank Plc in  Tokyo . “The bias is for the euro to be
sold on rallies.”  The euro fell to $1.4275 as of 7:09 a.m. in  London  from
$1.4287 in  New York  yesterday, after earlier rising as much as
0.3 percent. The common currency slid to 115.32 yen from 115.58
yen. The dollar bought 80.78 yen from 80.89 yesterday, when it
reached 80.98, the highest level since June 16.  “There is only this one plan A” for  Greece , Stark said in
an interview with Die Welt. Stark added that he did not doubt
the will of the Greek parliament overall to implement the agreed
savings plan, according to the report.  Budget Cuts  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  called on lawmakers
to obey their “patriotic conscience” and back tougher
austerity measures, as they began to debate a five-year budget
plan yesterday. Failure to pass Papandreou’s proposed 78 billion
euros ($111 billion) of cuts and asset sales may lead to the
euro area’s first sovereign default.  The euro earlier gained after  France  proposed a target of
rolling over 70 percent of Greece’s debt. German Finance
Ministry spokesman Martin Kreienbaum said in Berlin his
government welcomes proposals from the private sector. German
and French lenders are the biggest European holders of Greek
debt.  Euro-region finance ministers are set to meet on July 3 in
Brussels to advance a plan that is supposed to be approved at a
follow up meeting on July 11. A deal on the rollovers is
necessary to get the new aid package passed, a condition for
freeing up a 12 billion-euro payment from the original bailout
that Greece needs to meet 6.6 billion euros of bond maturities
in August.  ‘Band-Aid Measures’  “I think it’s all just band-aid measures at the moment,”
said  Matthew Brady , executive director for foreign exchange at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney. “I’m still firmly in the camp
that euro will go lower.  Europe ’s not out of its problems at the
moment.”  The yen rose on speculation Japanese exporters took
advantage of the currency’s drop yesterday to buy it before the
second quarter ends this week.  “We’re hearing many exporters bought the yen,” said
Takashi Kudo, senior manager of the foreign-exchange division
support center in Tokyo at NTT SmartTrade Inc., a unit of
 Japan ’s largest phone company.  Large Japanese manufacturers forecast on average that the
yen will trade at 84.20 per dollar in the year through March
2012, according to the Bank of Japan’s Tankan business-
confidence survey released April 1. The BOJ will release its
Tankan survey for the second quarter on July 1.  The won advanced for the first time in four days against
the dollar as data from the Bank of  Korea  today showed the
nation’s current account surplus widened last month by the most
since October last year.  “Expectations that Greek creditors are probably headed
toward a rollover agreement are boosting stocks and the
currency,” said Ha Jun Woo, currency dealer at Daegu Bank in
 Seoul . “The current account, which had a surplus, also supports
the won.”  The won gained 0.2 percent to 1,083.55 per dollar from
1,085.63 yesterday, when it touched 1,088.70, its weakest level
since June 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 