-- 
EuroCCP Plans Fee Cap to Coincide With New Bats Europe Service

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-06-28T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/euroccp-plans-fee-cap-to-coincide-with-new-bats-europe-service.html
EuroCCP , the European unit of U.S.
clearinghouse Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., plans to cut
fees for its biggest customers next month to win new business.  Under the new tariff structure, traders will only pay for
the first 230,000 sides of each transaction that are cleared in
a day, the company said in an e-mailed statement today. That
caps daily fees at 4,300 euros ($6,200).  Bats  Europe , Europe’s second-largest alternative trading
system, from late July plans to offer customers a choice of
central counterparty, called a Preferred Interoperable Clearing
Service. London-based EuroCCP will cut prices to coincide with
the start of the new service as it seeks to attract the
company’s clients.  “We will pass through the benefits-of-scale economies
directly to customers who designate EuroCCP as their central
counterparty of choice and bring incremental volumes,” Diana Chan, chief executive officer of EuroCCP, said in the statement.  Competition in clearing has come to Europe after new
trading systems took business from established exchanges by
offering lower fees and faster transactions. The alternative
platforms, which include Bats Europe, a division of Bats Trading
Inc., and Chi-X Europe Ltd., have encouraged new clearinghouses
to come to the market to serve them.  Clearinghouses act as central counterparties for every buy
and sell order executed by their members, protecting them if
other traders default. EuroCCP competes in Europe with
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., Europe’s largest securities
clearinghouse, the European Multilateral Clearing Facility NV
and SIX x-clear Ltd., the clearinghouse owned by  Switzerland ’s
SIX Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  