-- 
Ex-Credit Suisse Broker Butler Has Resentencing Postponed

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-06-28T17:54:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/ex-credit-suisse-broker-butler-has-resentencing-postponed.html
Former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  broker
 Eric Butler , whose securities-fraud conviction was overturned by
an appeals court, had his resentencing postponed on two other
convictions.  U.S. District Judge  Jack B. Weinstein  in Brooklyn, New
York, adjourned the sentencing scheduled for today. The judge
didn’t set a new date. Butler remains free on bail.  In a letter to Weinstein yesterday, Butler’s lawyers said
their client couldn’t be resentenced yet because of procedural
issues. They also said Butler would agree to have the fraud case
remain in federal court in Brooklyn, even after the appeals
court said it belonged in federal court in  Manhattan , where
Butler worked in Zurich-based Credit Suisse’s office. The
agreement apparently means that the conviction would stand.  “The defendant will agree to venue in the Eastern District
of New York,” which includes Brooklyn, the lawyers wrote.  Butler and his partner,  Julian Tzolov , were convicted in
2009 of intentionally misleading clients about securities
purchased on their behalf.  One of Butler’s lawyers, Steven F. Molo, confirmed the
adjournment in a phone interview and said the parties would have
to discuss the procedural issues.  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman
for U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch, declined to comment.  Weinstein said in a June 17 order that if Butler were
retried on the fraud charge in Manhattan he could end up with a
longer prison sentence than he already has.  Change Unlikely  Last year, Weinstein sentenced Butler to five years on each
of three convictions, to run consecutively. The judge said he
was unlikely to change the five-year sentence he imposed. The
appeals court upheld the convictions on the two conspiracy
counts.  In sentencing Butler, Weinstein had also imposed a
$5 million fine on the  securities-fraud  conviction.  In their letter, Butler’s lawyers said they would also
consent to transferring to Brooklyn seven wire-fraud counts
pending against him in Manhattan.  The procedural issues holding up the resentencing are that
the appeals court hasn’t officially notified Weinstein of its
June 15 ruling and that the government on June 24 asked the
higher court for more time to request a re-argument of the
appeal, according to the letter.  Prison Time  Butler’s lawyers also said that if he were sent to prison
immediately today, as Weinstein said he should be prepared for,
rather than being allowed to “self-surrender” at a future
date, his ability to do his prison time at Fort Dix in  New
Jersey , a minimum-security facility, would be jeopardized.  A remand order could change the location to a higher-
security prison, his lawyers said.  The appeals court upheld Butler’s conviction on conspiracy
to commit securities fraud and conspiracy to commit  wire fraud ,
finding those counts could be tried in Brooklyn.  After the appeals panel reversed the securities-fraud
conviction, Weinstein said it could be a “Pyrrhic victory at
best, or a disaster at worst” for Butler if he ended up with a
longer sentence.  Butler and Tzolov falsely claimed the securities they put
their clients in were backed by federally guaranteed student
loans, according to prosecutors.  The men told clients the investments, actually backed by
riskier corporate debt and subprime mortgages, were a safe
alternative to bank deposits or money-market funds, according to
Lynch’s office. Victims’ losses were more than $1.1 billion,
according to the government.  Butler and Tzolov were indicted in 2008. Tzolov, a native
of  Bulgaria , fled the U.S. before being returned from  Spain  in
July 2009 and pleading guilty. On June 7, Tzolov was sentenced
to four years in prison, with 1 1/2 years of that for bail
jumping. He testified for the government at Butler’s trial.  The case is U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-370, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 