-- 
Facebook Claimant Ceglia’s Lawyer Exodus Prompts Delay Bid

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-06-29T22:51:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/facebook-claimant-s-lawyers-are-quitting.html
Facebook Inc. claimant  Paul Ceglia 
asked a U.S. court to delay his lawsuit claiming half the
holdings of the company’s co-founder,  Mark Zuckerberg , as Ceglia
seeks to reconstruct his legal team.  Most of Ceglia’s lawyers, from the firms DLA Piper LLP and
Lippes Mathias Wexler Friedman LLP, filed papers yesterday in
federal court in Buffalo, New York, saying they were quitting
less than three months after joining the case.  On the eve of a hearing requested by Facebook, which claims
the case is a “fraud on the court,” Ceglia asked the judge
today for a three-week postponement. He said he wants to allow a
new lawyer, Jeffrey A. Lake of  San Diego , to become familiar
with the case and to permit Ceglia to hire new lead counsel.  “We’ve been very impressed with the all firms we have
interviewed,” said Paul Argentieri, of Hornell,  New York ,
Ceglia’s original attorney. “The directive from our client was
clear: find a firm with the resources, experience, and legal
horsepower to handle a case of this magnitude. But above all,
find someone who will not be intimidated by the defendant.”  DLA Piper, which has 4,200 lawyers in 30 countries, is one
of the biggest law firms in the world. The Lippes Mathias
lawyers representing Ceglia included former New York Attorney
General Dennis Vacco. DLA Piper and Vacco declined to say why
they were withdrawing from the case.  2003 Contract  Ceglia claims he and Zuckerberg signed a contract in 2003
that made them equal partners when Zuckerberg launched Facebook
the following year. Facebook, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , is
valued at as much as $71 billion, according to Sharespost.com,
an online marketplace for investments in companies that aren’t
publicly traded.  Facebook and Zuckerberg claim the contract is a fake and
have called Ceglia a con man in court papers. Facebook has asked
a Buffalo judge to issue an order seizing Ceglia’s computers and
requiring him to turn over an original contract and e-mails.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in  Manhattan  at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 