-- 
Failure to Raise U.S. Debt Cap May Idle 800,000 Workers, Budget Group Says

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-06-28T18:50:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/failure-to-raise-u-s-debt-ceiling-would-idle-800-000-workers-group-says.html
The U.S. government wouldn’t be able
to fund about 50 percent of its obligations and would have to
furlough about 800,000 federal workers if Congress fails to
approve an increase in the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling, a
coalition of former budget officials says.  Sometime in the first half of August, no funding would be
available for the Departments of  Veterans Affairs , Education,
and Housing and Urban Development, as well as  unemployment
insurance  and Internal Revenue Service refunds, according to a
report by the Bipartisan Policy Center in Washington.  “The reality would be chaotic,” Jay Powell, the author of
the study and a former Treasury undersecretary under President
George H.W. Bush, said at a news conference when the report was
released. “Treasury would be picking winners and losers.”  The report represents a challenge to Senator Pat Toomey of
 Pennsylvania , Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota and
other Republicans who dismiss the risks of a government default.
Republican presidential candidate Tim Pawlenty said today
Republicans should hold out for deep spending cuts before
raising the debt ceiling, echoing the position of his party’s
congressional leadership.  Cash Flows  The report, earlier obtained by Bloomberg News, evaluated
Treasury cash flows in the month of August for the past several
years.  There would be just enough to cover payments for Social
Security, Medicare and Medicaid and military personnel, assuming
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  gives those programs
priority, according to the study.  “There are a lot of people on both sides of the American
political spectrum now that would rather have a fight than
actually do something,” Geithner said on June 24 at  Dartmouth
College  in Hanover,  New Hampshire . Some have a “dangerous
illusion that somehow if we defaulted on our debt, stopped
paying our obligations, that would be a way to balance our
budget.”  The coalition of former budget officials, including Alice Rivlin, a budget director under former President  Bill Clinton ,
and Republican Pete Domenici of New Mexico, who was the longest-
serving chairman of the Senate Budget Committee before his
retirement, are speaking out as negotiations over a debt-
reduction package before Treasury’s Aug. 2 deadline have
suffered setbacks.  Obama Meeting  President  Barack Obama  met for more than an hour yesterday
with Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky
Republican, in the wake of last week’s collapse of bipartisan
negotiations led by Vice President Joe Biden.  Bachmann, Toomey and some other Republicans have been
discounting the effects of a default as they encourage members
of their party to withhold their votes for increasing the debt
ceiling unless certain spending-cut conditions are met.  “These are scare tactics by the Obama administration,”
Bachmann, who declared her presidential candidacy yesterday,
said in an interview today on CBS’s “The Early Show.”  Pawlenty, speaking on  MSNBC , said Republicans should raise
the debt ceiling only if they “get something permanent and
structural and meaningful,” including a balanced-budget
amendment and spending caps. Asked what would happen if the
limit weren’t raised, the former  Minnesota  governor said,
“well, we don’t know that.”  Report Circulating  The policy center’s report has been circulating for the
past week among House Republicans as the coalition seeks to
counter claims that not raising debt ceiling will have a minimal
impact on the federal government and financial markets.  The Treasury would have $203.3 billion inflows for the
month while owing $362.7 billion, leaving it with a deficit of
$159.3 billion, according to the report.  Also, in August Social Security benefits cost $49.2
billion, Medicare and Medicaid cost $68.6 billion, defense
venders and personnel cost $34.6 billion and  unemployment
benefits  total $12.8 billion. This totals $165.2 billion in
spending requirements, more than the $159.3 deficit on hand for
spending.  “Failure to avert this crisis would have dire
consequences,” Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada
Democrat, said on the Senate floor today. “It would result in
the most serious financial crisis this country has ever faced.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in  Washington  at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  