-- 
Fed’s Fisher Says U.S. Growth May Reach 4% in Second Half

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-06-28T20:03:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/fed-s-fisher-says-u-s-growth-may-reach-4-in-second-half-1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said U.S. growth may accelerate to as
much as 4 percent during the second half of this year, spurred
partly by falling energy and food prices.  “It wouldn’t be unimaginable to see 4 percent growth in
the second half” of 2011, Fisher said today in a speech in
Round Rock,  Texas . “The price of energy and price of food has
frightened the consumer,” he said. “As these prices come down
a little, as we forecast they would, that relieves a little bit
of the anxiety.”  Fisher supported the Federal Open Market Committee’s
decision last week to maintain record monetary stimulus after
completing $600 billion of Treasury purchases as planned this
month. The FOMC reiterated its pledge to keep the benchmark
interest rate near zero for an “extended period” and said
temporary forces are inhibiting growth, including energy prices
and disruptions in the supply of goods after  Japan ’s earthquake.  “We saw a pickup of activity in June,” Fisher told
reporters after his speech to the  Round Rock  Chamber of
Commerce, citing Dallas Fed surveys of retailers, manufacturers
and service companies.  The Dallas Fed chief told reporters that some prices may
rise, noting that companies he surveys plan to “price
aggressively” in the second half of the year in response to
cost pressures from rising commodities prices. He said he’s
“wary” about a “break-out” of inflation.  Falling Confidence  Rising inflation, declining share prices and unemployment
persisting at around 9 percent may inhibit  consumer spending ,
the biggest part of the economy. Confidence among U.S. consumers
unexpectedly fell in June to a seven-month low, figures from the
Conference Board, a New York-based private research group,
showed today.  Employers last month added the fewest workers since
September, and spending, adjusted for inflation, dropped for a
second consecutive time, figures from the Labor and Commerce
Departments showed. Also, in April the S&P/Case-Shiller index of
property values in 20 cities fell 4 percent from April 2010, the
biggest drop since November 2009.  Fed policy makers last week reduced their forecasts for
economic growth and employment this year and next. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said during a June 22 press conference that while
the outlook for jobs and inflation is better than before the
latest bond purchases, he’s not sure how long the economic
headwinds will persist.  Withdrawing Stimulus  “I look forward to exiting from accommodative monetary
policy,” Fisher told reporters, while declining to say when an
exit might take place. “The question is timing.” Holding the
balance sheet steady after June is a “first step.”  The FOMC said last week it will continue the policy of
reinvesting proceeds of maturing mortgage and Treasury debt
without indicating the duration for the policy. The Fed’s
balance sheet rose to a record $2.86 trillion as of June 22.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.3 percent to
1,296.67 at the 4 p.m. close in  New York . A drop of almost a
point in the 10-year note pushed yields up 10 basis points to
3.03 percent after they declined yesterday to 2.84 percent, the
lowest level since Dec. 1.  Americans are still boosting savings and cutting spending
in the wake of the deepest recession since the 1930s, the Dallas
Fed official said.  “Consumers are very shy right now,” Fisher told
reporters. “We still have excess leverage, and people are
deleveraging,” a trend that is likely to continue “for quite
some time,” he said.  Fisher, 62, has been president of the Dallas Fed since
2005. When he held an FOMC vote in 2008, he dissented five times
in favor of tighter policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  