-- 
Industry Group Cuts MBS Fail Charges, Pimco Says Still High

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-06-28T14:53:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/fed-backed-industry-group-revises-proposed-fail-charge-for-mortgage-trades.html
An industry group that advises on
transactions in U.S. securities revised a proposal that would
penalize dealers and investors that fail to complete mortgage-
bond trades at agreed-upon times. Pacific Investment Management
Co. said the lower fees may still damage the market.  The  Treasury Market Practices Group , formed in 2007 with
the help of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  to offer advice
on debt markets, said the charge for trade failures should be 2
percent minus the federal funds target rate, which is now as low
as zero. The group suggested as much as 3 percent in April.  The U.S. central bank’s decision to hold benchmark  interest
rates  at record lows has encouraged failures by reducing the
cost of uncompleted trades, while its purchase of $1.25 trillion
of mortgage bonds through March 2010 has made it more difficult
to find bonds to settle contracts in a timely manner.  “This is long overdue given the distortions these fails
have been creating,” said Tae Park, a  money manager  in  New York 
who oversees mortgage-bond investments at Societe Generale SA,
 France ’s second-largest bank.  Uncompleted trades in the $5 trillion market for agency
mortgage securities remain elevated after rising to a record of
almost $2.4 trillion during a week in November, according to Fed
data. Agency mortgage bonds, the type affected by the proposed
market rules, are guaranteed by government-supported  Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac or federal agency Ginnie Mae.  ‘Hoped for Lower’  TMPG recommended that the charges for the failed mortgage-
bond trades apply starting Feb. 1, the group said in a  statement 
posted today on the New York Fed’s website. The proposed fees
would remain as much as 3 percent, its initial suggestion, for
uncompleted trades of corporate debt from Fannie Mae,  Freddie
Mac  and the government-chartered Federal Home Loan Bank system.
These charges may also begin in February.  While the 2 percent maximum for mortgage-bond failure fees
would be better than 3 percent, “we had hoped for lower
still,”  Scott Simon ,  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco’s
mortgage-bond head, said in an e-mail.  “We are afraid that the 2 percent charge is still high
enough that it will entice people to attempt short squeezes and
reduce liquidity,” said Simon, whose firm runs the world’s
largest bond fund. A short squeeze refers to hoarding of bonds
that may be needed to be bought to complete trades.  Tom Wipf, the TMPG’s chairman, said that the charges will
“effectively reduce fails and support liquidity in the market”
in the statement released today.  Increases Possible  “If fail levels do not decline satisfactorily within the
first few months after the charge takes effect, the TMPG will
consider raising the charge level,” said Wipf, who’s also a
Morgan Stanley executive.  Failures to receive or deliver agency mortgage securities
totaled $861.2 billion in the week ended June 15 among primary
dealers, compared with an average of about $330 billion weekly
over the past 10 years, according to Fed data. The tallies are
inflated both by incomplete trades that continue over multiple
days and by strings of failures triggered by a single party that
doesn’t settle a contract.  An electronic method to reduce chains of failures that was
introduced last year by Tradeweb LLC, the bond- and derivatives-
trading network partly owned by Wall Street’s largest banks, may
have helped reduce uncompleted trades from their peaks.  The TMPG’s effort to create mortgage-bond fail charges
follows the introduction of a similar practice for U.S.
government bonds that the organization backed in 2009.  Cost of Failures  Cutting the number of uncompleted mortgage-bond trades is
necessary for individual companies because “fails can increase
operational costs and counterparty credit risk, absorb scarce
capital through regulatory charges, and damage customer
relations,” the TMPG said in a paper released in April. Also
the problem can drive investors from the market, hurting
stability and liquidity, the group said.  The Fed’s decision to hold its target for the federal funds
rate in a range of 0 percent to 0.25 percent since 2008 has
helped encourage fails because it lowers the cost of not
receiving cash in exchange for the promised securities. In a
higher-rate environment, dealers would lose more because that
cash could be invested at higher yields.  Lower rates boost the incentives for investors or dealers
that want to “short,” or bet against, mortgage-bond prices to
delay delivering bonds into sales contracts, according to the
group’s paper.  Most transactions in the mortgage-bond market are conducted
through so-called To Be Announced trading, which also adds
incentives to fail on those contracts. TBA contracts can be
filled through delivery of securities with a range of
characteristics, rather than specific bonds.  That gives dealers and investors a motive to wait until
they acquire “less valuable” securities before completing
trades, according to the industry group’s paper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 