-- 
Fish Holds Last American Chance at Wimbledon in Quarterfinal Against Nadal

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-28T23:01:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/fish-holds-last-american-chance-at-wimbledon-against-defending-champ-nadal.html
Mardy Fish  is getting used to this,
and starting to like it.  For the second major tennis tournament in a row, Fish is
the last American player remaining in either main singles draw
as he takes on defending champion Rafael Nadal in today’s
quarterfinals at Wimbledon.  The Tampa, Florida, resident filled the same American
survivor role at last month’s French Open. The 29-year-old is 0-
5 lifetime against the top-ranked Spanish left-hander, who was
cleared to play after injuring his foot in the previous round.  “It’s not what you set out to do,” ninth-ranked Fish said
in a news conference, when asked what it felt like to be the
only American left. “Being the highest-ranked American, I guess
on both sides now, comes a pretty high responsibility.”  A lone U.S. player in the Wimbledon quarterfinals is the
fewest since 2006, when no American men and women made it. Fish
was the highest seeded American at the  French Open , where he
reached the third round.  Serena Williams  was seeded seventh at
Wimbledon, where her championship defense ended in a straight-
set loss in the fourth round.  Andy Roddick  was No. 8 among the
men.  Serena’s older sister, Venus, a five-time champion, also
lost in the fourth round. Roddick, the last American man to win
a Grand Slam title at the 2003 U.S. Open and now ranked No. 10,
was beaten in the third round by  Spain ’s Feliciano Lopez.  Other Quarterfinals  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland , who is trying to equal
William Renshaw and  Pete Sampras  with a seventh Wimbledon title,
plays  France ’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga on Centre Court today for a
spot in the semifinals. That match is followed by  Andy Murray ,
the No. 4 seed who is trying to become the first British man
since Fred Perry in 1936 to win the title, against Lopez. Fish
and Nadal play on Court 1, after second-seeded Novak Djokovic of
Serbia plays 18-year-old Australian qualifier Bernard Tomic, the
youngest man left in the draw.  Fish was eliminated in Paris by France’s  Gilles Simon ,
leaving no American players in the last 16 of  Roland Garros  for
the first time since tennis turned professional in 1968. The
Williams sisters and Roddick didn’t play in Paris because of
injuries.  After losing on the red clay at the  French Open , Fish told
a small group of reporters he needed to step up in majors.  “Being the highest-ranked American, it’s a different
feeling,” he said. “You want to perform, you want to play
well.”  Fish made the quarterfinals at the 2007 Australian Open and
the 2008  U.S. Open , where he lost to Nadal. Before this year, he
never had been past the third round at Wimbledon.  ‘Completely Different’  “This is much different than the 2008 U.S. Open for me,”
Fish, whose serve has only been broken once in four rounds. “I
feel a lot different. I feel like a completely different player.
So I’m hoping it doesn’t end.”  Nadal said he isn’t underestimating Fish, even though the
Spaniard has lost only one set in their five previous matches.  “He’s playing at a very, very high level,” Nadal said.
“He’s very dangerous player, so I will try my best to be very
competitive on Wednesday. I need to be at my 100 percent. If
not, it’s going to be impossible against him.  So I have to
recover.”  There never has been a longer period in the Open era than
the 31 consecutive Grand Slams, including this year’s Wimbledon,
that hasn’t included a U.S. male singles winner.  “You can’t go out there thinking you can’t win,” Fish
said. “I’ve never been past this spot in a Grand Slam. Past
this spot is where I want to be, where you set your goals for.
So game-plan-wise, we’ll come up with something. A lot of it is
mental. He’s got 10 Grand Slams pretty recently. So half the
battle is walking out there believing you can win, and I’ll
definitely do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 