-- 
Ford to Export Ranger Pickup to 148 Countries From S. Africa

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-06-28T20:04:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/ford-plans-to-export-110-000-ranger-trucks-a-year-from-south-african-plant.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  plans to ship its
Ranger pickup to 148 countries from South  Africa  under a $500
million export program, Chief Financial Officer  Lewis Booth 
said.  Ford over the past two years has expanded its assembly
plant in  Pretoria , the nation’s capital, to an annual production
capacity of 110,000 vehicles, Booth told reporters today. Last
year, Ford sold about 48,000 vehicles from its South African
operations into southern Africa, he said.  The company has about 10 percent of the market in South
Africa, trailing Toyota Motor Corp., Volkswagen AG and General
Motors Co., said Jeff Nemeth, the Dearborn, Michigan-based
automaker’s top executive in that country. Nemeth declined to
say by how much Ford wants to increase sales in  South Africa .  “With the Ranger, we feel we’ll be able to catch up” with
GM, which has 13 percent of the market, Nemeth told reporters
today on a conference call. “We’re not going to chase market
share; we want profitable growth.”  The company estimates 500,000 to 600,000 vehicles are sold
a year in South Africa, including unreported registrations.  Ford is boosting capacity in South Africa, anticipating the
nation’s economy will expand.  “Although we don’t have a specific estimate for when that
will happen, it’s important for us to keep a presence here,”
Nemeth said.  The second-largest U.S. automaker, which has been plagued
by malfunctions of dashboard touch-screens, has resolved
communication-technology problems in new cars, Booth said.  Ford dropped to 23rd from fifth in J.D. Power & Associates
new-car quality survey, the  Westlake Village , California-based
market-research firm said on  June 23 .  “A new survey in the first quarter will show those
problems have been resolved,” Booth said.  Ford shares slid 13 cents to $13.33 at 4:02 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  