-- 
Hungarian Debt Held By Overseas Investors Climbs to Record

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-06-28T13:13:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/foreigners-holdings-of-hungarian-bonds-advance-to-record-high.html
Hungarian government debt held by
foreign investors has risen to a record high, according to the
country’s Debt Management Agency.  International investors held 3.51 trillion forint ($18.6
billion) of  government bonds  and bills as of yesterday, the most
on record, compared with 2.61 trillion forint at the end of
2010, the Debt Management Agency said on its Bloomberg page.  Foreign investors have been lured to the Hungarian  bond
market  by high nominal  interest rates  and confidence that the
government will reduce its  budget deficit , Peter Vizkelety, an
economist at Assicurazioni Generali SpA’s unit in Budapest,
wrote in an e-mailed note today.  The yield on Hungary’s 10-year bonds is 157 basis points,
or 1.57 percentage points, higher than for Polish bonds of the
same maturity, the widest spread since January. Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  said in January he would cut welfare spending to
prevent the budget from unraveling after the government loses
the benefit of one-time industry taxes and a diversion of funds
from private pension arrangements to government coffers.  Government bonds maturing in 2022 rallied, pushing the
yield two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, lower to 7.386
percent as of 1:46 p.m. in Budapest, after reaching a three-
month high of 7.476 percent at the end of last week. The forint
appreciated 0.4 percent to 269.74 per euro.  ‘More Cautious’  Hungary  this month acquired 2.95 trillion forint in assets
from privately managed pension funds, financial watchdog PSZAF
said on June 14. The acquired pension assets included 1.35
trillion forint in Treasury bonds and bills, which have been
withdrawn to reduce public debt, according to data on the debt
agency’s  website .  Foreign investors will be “more cautious in coming
months” as their share of the bond market rises because of the
pension changes, Vizkelety said.  The peak in foreign ownership “contains risks, especially
because as the bonds taken over from private pension funds are
canceled, the percentage of foreign ownership rises
substantially,”  Gyula Toth , a strategist at UniCredit SpA in
Vienna, said in e-mailed responses to questions. Foreigners may
pull out their investments in a potential market slump faster
than domestic buyers, Toth said.  The Cabinet aims to save 550 billion forint next year and
900 billion forint annually by 2013 through welfare-spending
reductions, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  told reporters on
March 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  