-- 
Lorenzo Charles, Whose Dunk Beat Houston in 1983, Dies in Bus Crash at 47

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-06-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/former-north-carolina-state-basketball-player-charles-dies-in-bus-crash.html
Lorenzo Charles, whose buzzer-
beating dunk won the 1983 college basketball championship for
 North Carolina State , died yesterday when a bus he was driving
crashed in Raleigh,  North Carolina . He was 47.  Charles was the only fatality in the accident, Raleigh
police spokesman Jim Sughrue said in an e-mail. No other
vehicles were involved and there were no passengers on the
charter bus, Sughrue said.  Charles will be remembered for the dunk that 28 years ago
helped coach Jim Valvano’s Wolfpack squad upset a  University of
Houston  team led by Hakeem Olajuwon and Clyde Drexler. As
teammate Dereck Whittenburg’s 30-foot desperation shot fell
short of the basket, Charles caught it and  slammed it  through
the hoop as time expired to give North Carolina State a 54-52
win in  Albuquerque ,  New Mexico .  “We will be forever connected because of that play,”
Whittenburg said in comments released by the school. “It’s just
too hard to accept -- he was too young.”  The 6-foot-7 Charles, who grew up in  Brooklyn ,  New York ,
spent one season in the  National Basketball Association  after
leaving North Carolina State. He also played professionally in
the United States Basketball League and outside the U.S.  On his official website, Charles said he figured he would
have his “15 minutes of fame” after his dunk that beat Houston.
North Carolina State entered the 1983 National Collegiate
Athletic Association tournament as a sixth seed with a 20-10
record and was an 8 1/2-point underdog against top-seeded
Houston in the title game.  ‘Conversational Piece’  “Here we are and it is still a conversational piece,”
Charles was quoted as saying on  lorenzocharles43.com . “I don’t
really think that was the only great Final Four finish that has
been played since then, but for some reason people just single
out that game and talk about it. Maybe because it was such a
David and Goliath thing.”  Following his playing career, Charles worked as a driver
for several transportation companies in North Carolina.  Mark Gottfried, who took over as North Carolina State’s
coach in April, said Charles had visited the school last week
and spent time talking with the Wolfpack coaching staff. While a
junior at the  University of Alabama , Gottfried lost to Charles
and North Carolina State in the regional semifinals of the 1985
NCAA tournament.  “The entire Wolfpack family is devastated to hear the news
about Lorenzo Charles,” Gottfried said. “He holds a special
place in Wolfpack history and in the hearts of generations of
fans. We just reconnected with him last week and our staff was
stunned to hear this terrible news.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  