-- 
French Proposal May Form Basis for Greek Bailout, Dallara Says

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-06-28T15:13:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/french-proposal-may-form-basis-for-greek-bailout-dallara-says.html
A French proposal for a rollover of
Greek bonds contains “the ingredients” to form the basis of a
new bailout package for  Greece , said  Charles Dallara , managing
director of the  Institute of International Finance .  “I don’t think we should be focusing on one single
proposal for Greece,” Dallara said at a conference in Istanbul
today. “But the ingredients of the French model are highly
likely what will come out of this.” He also said the Greek
crisis won’t be resolved without debt buybacks.  Under the French proposal, half the Greek debt held by
banks and insurers maturing in the next three years would be
swapped for new 30-year Greek bonds. The redemptions from
another 20 percent would be invested in a special purpose
vehicle that would serve as collateral for the banks, two people
familiar with the plan said.  Dallara participated in talks yesterday in Rome with
financial companies on options for the new Greek rescue package.
Representatives from the  euro zone  and the  European Central Bank 
also attended.  The IIF  is a Washington-based lobby group
representing more than 400 of the world’s biggest financial-
services companies.  Guarantee Fund  The French plan, which includes a guarantee fund as an
incentive for banks to take part, has been compared to the Brady
Bond plan, named after former U.S. Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, that was used in 1989 to help resolve  Latin America ’s
debt crisis. In that case, bondholders who swapped their debt
for longer-maturity bonds were offered a repayment guarantee. To
back up that guarantee, the Latin American governments bought
U.S. Treasury bonds that were held in escrow.  Greece’s rescue plan needs “a broad base of participants”
from political parties and financial-services companies, said
Dallara, a former U.S. Treasury official.
The Greek economic problems are “extraordinarily serious,” he
said. “Recovery will definitely take time.”  Dallara said he was confident Greek lawmakers will pass
“in the next few days” the legislation required for the next
tranche of funding. The Greek parliament is debating a package
of budget cuts and asset sales that is needed before the nation
can tap a fifth loan payment from last year’s 110 billion-euro
($158 billion) bailout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 