-- 
Gasoline Futures Gain as Crude, Equities Advance, Dollar Drops

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-06-28T20:27:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/gasoline-futures-gain-as-crude-equities-advance-dollar-drops.html
Gasoline and heating oil rose as
crude and equities gained and the dollar weakened against the
euro, increasing the investment appeal of commodities.  Futures advanced a second day as  Brent crude  climbed,
boosting costs for European and U.S. East Coast refiners that
process imported oil. The euro appreciated against the U.S.
currency on optimism that a deal will be reached to help  Greece 
avoid defaulting on its debt and on speculation the  European
Central Bank  will increase lending rates.  “Everything seems to be marching hand in hand with the
equities and the dollar,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut . “The
chatter of possible passage of austerity measures in Greece is
easing fears about a credit crisis.”  Gasoline for July delivery gained 8.21 cents, or 2.9
percent, to settle at $2.8896 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices have dropped 8.3 percent this month
and by 7 percent this quarter.  Today’s gain was part of a broad rally in commodities. The
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 commodities rose 1.7
percent, the biggest gain since May 18.  “We’ve come off quite a bit the last few weeks and all the
key ingredients are here for a decent rebound, since the fear
factor for a Greek default has abated,” said  James Cordier ,
portfolio manager at OptionSellers.com in Tampa,  Florida .  Dollar Drops  The U.S. currency fell a second day against the euro,
dropping 0.6 percent as of 4:16 p.m. in  New York . The Standard &
Poor’s 500 index gained 1.3 percent.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said policy makers are in
“strong vigilance mode,” signaling they intend to raise
 interest rates  next week. Trichet declined to comment
specifically on the Greek crisis or a French proposal under
which creditors would agree to roll over 70 percent of their
Greek bonds.  Greek lawmakers are scheduled to vote tomorrow on Prime
Minister George Papandreaou’s 78 billion euro ($111 billion)
plan to cut spending and sell assets, a condition of further aid
from the ECB.  “The market was in free fall on concerns about Greece,”
said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest in
 Chicago . “Trichet seems to be approving restructuring of the
Greek debt.”  Gasoline and heating oil premiums over crude oil on Nymex
increased as Brent on the ICE Futures Europe exchange gained
more than West  Texas  Intermediate oil.  Crack Spreads  The premium for gasoline, or the crack spread, based on
August futures, increased 71 cents to $25.37 a barrel on the
exchange, while the August heating oil crack spread gained 24
cents to $26.45.  The WTI-Brent spread, based on August futures, widened to
$15.89 a barrel from $15.38 yesterday.  “Products are tracking the bounce on Brent,” said  Tom Knight , vice president of trading and supply at Truman Arnold
Cos. in Texarkana, Texas.  U.S. gasoline stockpiles probably rose 775,000 barrels in
the week ended June 24, according to the median estimate of 12
analysts in a survey by Bloomberg News. Supplies of heating oil
and diesel rose 1.05 million barrels.  The Energy Department is scheduled to report last week’s
inventories at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington .  In the week ended June 17, gasoline demand, measured by
deliveries to wholesalers, fell 0.5 percent to 9.32 million
barrels a day. On a four-week average, consumption was 0.9
percent above a year earlier.  July 4 Travel  There will be 2.5 percent fewer Americans traveling during
the July 4 holiday period than a year earlier as higher prices
at the pump crimp travel plans, according to a June 22 forecast
by AAA, the biggest U.S. motoring organization. That’s the third
decline in four years.  “Demand for this July 4 holiday driving and for Labor Day
will fall short of last year,” Cordier said. “The weaker
economy is going to keep people a little closer to home.”  The U.S. Labor Day holiday falls on Sept. 5 this year and
traditionally is considered the end of the summer driving
season. In 2007, gasoline demand peaked on Aug. 17 at 9.76
million barrels, in 2008 on Aug. 1 at 9.48 million, in 2009 on
May 22 at 9.54 million and on July 23 last year at 9.63 million,
according to department data. The highest level this year was
9.43 million barrels on May 27.  “I would expect the week ended July 1 to show some
increase in demand week to week as retailers stock up for the
holiday and another smaller increase the week ended July 8 as
they stock up after the holiday,” said  Sander Cohan , an analyst
with Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,  Massachusetts .
“But we’ll see lower demand than last year because retail
prices are still too high to reverse this flat demand trend.”  Pump Prices  Prices at the pump are 29 percent higher than a year
earlier, according to AAA data on its website. Regular gasoline
at the pump declined 1.4 cents to $3.551 yesterday, the 25th
consecutive drop and the lowest level since March 23.  Heating oil for July delivery rose 6.08 cents, or 2.2
percent, to settle at $2.8257 a gallon on the exchange. Heating
oil has dropped 7.6 percent in June and 8.6 percent this
quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  