-- 
Geithner Says U.S.-India Relationship Has ‘Vast’ Potential

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-06-28T18:19:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/geithner-says-u-s-india-relationship-has-vast-potential-1-.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the U.S.- India  relationship has “vast untapped
potential” even as American banks and insurers confront
obstacles in  Asia ’s third-largest economy.  U.S. companies “still face barriers in sectors such as
banking, insurance, manufacturing, multi-brand retail and
infrastructure,” Geithner said at a press conference today with
India’s Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee after bilateral
meetings in Washington. Still, the relationship “presents both
our countries with vast untapped potential for greater trade,
investment and economic opportunity,” Geithner said.  Closer ties would help American companies expand sales to
India’s 1.2 billion people. India’s government wants foreign
investment in infrastructure to improve its congested
transportation network and ease power shortages that are
limiting economic progress.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government plans to double
infrastructure spending to $1 trillion in the five years through
March 2017 to expand highways, ports, airports and railways.
About 50 percent of the funds are expected to come from the
private sector, including overseas investors, Mukherjee said.  “There is a huge opportunity” for American investors, he
said. He was visiting  Washington  to participate in the second
U.S.-India Economic and Financial Partnership meetings.  Exports Grow  Cooperation between the two countries, previously limited
to mercantile exports, has expanded in recent years to areas
including defense procurement, Mukherjee said. That’s why U.S.
exports to India grew fourfold in the past decade, he said.  The U.S. wants India to be one of its top 10 trading
partners, Geithner said in a statement today. The South Asian
nation moved up to 12th last year.  The U.S. is looking for more access to industries such as
financial services, education and legal services. India’s laws,
aimed at protecting small-store owners, don’t yet allow foreign
investment in multi-brand retail, and have limited it only to
single-brand retail or wholesale operations.  Easing the “barriers, which are limiting economic growth
and job creation in both our countries, would be an important
step toward integrating our economies,” Geithner said. “We
understand that addressing these barriers can be politically
challenging, but the long-term benefits clearly outweigh the
short-term challenges for both our countries.”  Project Financing   India on June 24 unveiled options it is considering to help
investors set up infrastructure debt funds to finance road, port
and power projects.  The Indian government framework for debt financing “will
help encourage private investment,” Geithner said.  India is ranked 91 out of 139 countries for its
infrastructure, according to the  World Economic Forum ’s Global
Competitiveness Index. India’s deficiencies in logistics
infrastructure cost the economy $45 billion, or 4.3 percent of
gross domestic product, each year, according to McKinsey & Co.
estimates.  Combined foreign direct investment between the two nations
rose by 165 percent from 2005 to 2009.  More trade with India would also help President  Barack
Obama ’s goal of doubling U.S. exports globally in five years,
 Francisco Sanchez , undersecretary of Commerce for International
Trade, said in a speech at the U.S.-India Business Council in
Washington on June 23. India last year became the 17th largest
export market for the U.S., up from 31st in 2000, Sanchez said.  At a business forum in Washington yesterday, Geithner
called for India to take more steps in opening up financial
services.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  