-- 
German Consumer Confidence Will Rise for First Time in 4 Months, GfK Says

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-06-28T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/german-consumer-confidence-will-rise-for-first-time-in-4-months-gfk-says.html
German  consumer confidence  will rise
for the first time in four months in July as stronger-than-
expected economic growth offsets uncertainty over the sovereign
debt crisis, GfK said.  The Nuremburg-based market research company today forecast
that its consumer sentiment index, based on a survey of about
2,000 people, will increase to 5.7 next month from a revised 5.6
in June. Economists predicted a decline to 5.3 from the initial
June estimate of 5.5, according to the median of 25 estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey.  Germany ’s Bundesbank this month raised its growth forecast
for 2011 to 3.1 percent from 2.5 percent after  Europe ’s largest
economy expanded 1.5 percent in the first quarter. With exports
to  Asia  booming, German companies have stepped up hiring,
sending unemployment to a two-decade low and boosting household
spending even as Greece’s debt crisis rattles financial markets.  “The continued upward momentum of the German economy and
further recovery of the labor market have triggered a moderate
rise in economic expectations and a strong increase in income
expectations among Germans,” GfK said in a statement. “Good
general conditions” have again become “more influential than
detrimental factors, such as the state of affairs in Greece.”  GfK’s measure of households’ economic expectations rose to
50.3 points in June from 46.1 in May. A gauge of income
expectations jumped to 44.6 from 25.9, while an index of
consumers’ willingness to spend climbed to 35.1 from 31.5.  TUI AG (TUI1) , Europe’s largest tour operator, said on June 26
that bookings at its German unit rose this summer compared to
last year. TUI’s hotels, specialized tourism and more families
traveling helped drive growth, TUI said.  Still, rising prices may hurt  consumer spending . German
inflation will accelerate to 2.5 percent in June from 2.4
percent in May, according to a Bloomberg survey of 19 economists.
That report is due later today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 Jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  