-- 
German Inflation Unexpectedly Held Steady as ECB Signals Key Rate Increase

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-06-28T12:30:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/german-inflation-unexpectedly-held-steady-as-ecb-signals-key-rate-increase.html
Inflation in Germany,  Europe ’s
largest economy, unexpectedly held steady in June as the
 European Central Bank  prepares to raise  interest rates  for a
second time this year.  The inflation rate, calculated using a harmonized European
Union method, held at 2.4 percent from May, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today in an initial
estimate. Economists forecast inflation to quicken to 2.5
percent, according to the median of 19 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. Prices remained unchanged from the previous month.  Germany’s recovery is showing few signs of a slowdown with
declining unemployment encouraging consumer demand, giving
companies more room to pass on higher costs. While  oil prices 
have retreated over the past month, they’re still up 16 percent
from a year earlier. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled
today policy makers are ready to raise borrowing costs further
from 1.25 percent next week.  “There’s no reason to give an all-clear on inflation,
we’ll likely see significant price pressure in the coming
months,” said  Andreas Rees , chief German economist at UniCredit
Group in Munich. “The ECB will certainly remain concerned about
price developments.”  On a non-harmonized basis, inflation held at 2.3 percent in
June and consumer prices rose 0.1 percent from the previous
month, the statistics office said.  BASF SE (BAS)  said on June 16 it’s raising prices for formic acid
in Europe and K+S AG, Europe’s biggest potash producer, in June
increased prices for the crop nutrient.  The Bundesbank said on June 10 that “the prospects of the
German economy experiencing a lengthy period of expansion are
rising” and the recovery “has evolved into a broad-based
upturn.” The Frankfurt-based central bank forecasts Europe’s
largest economy will grow 3.1 percent this year after a record
3.6 percent expansion in 2010.  In the euro region, inflation probably accelerated to 2.8
percent in June from 2.7 percent in May, a separate survey
showed. Eurostat, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg, will release that data on June 30.  ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark said yesterday
that the bank is “ready not to leave the interest-rate increase
from April stand by itself.” Trichet said in Amsterdam today
that policy makers are “united on the goal of solidly anchoring
inflation expectations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  