-- 
Greek Government Bonds Rise on Bailout Bets; German Bonds Fall on Trichet

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-06-28T16:16:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/german-note-yield-six-basis-points-from-four-month-low-before-italy-sale.html
Greek bonds rose the most in more
than a week on speculation that lawmakers will approve a set of
austerity measures tomorrow, moving the country closer to
receiving additional international bailout funding.  Spanish and Portuguese 10-year debt also advanced. German
two-year notes fell after European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet signaled policy makers are ready to raise
 interest rates  for a second time this year and reports showed
inflation in some German states accelerated.  “We expect the Greek vote to be passed, and we should get
a small sell-off in bunds and see some tightening of periphery
spreads when that happens,”  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in
 London .  The yield on Greek 10-year bonds fell 35 basis points to
16.45 percent, the lowest since June 9, as of 4:36 p.m. in
London. The yield fell as much as 42 basis points, the biggest
drop since June 17. The 6.25 percent securities maturing in June
2020 advanced 1.03, or 10.30 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,436) face
amount, to 53.795. Two-year Greek yields tumbled 87 basis points
to 28.51 percent.  The yield on 10-year Portuguese bonds dropped 18 basis
points to 11.50 percent and the rate on similar-maturity Spanish
securities was six basis points lower at 5.63 percent.  Quarterly Slump  Greek 10-year bonds have slumped this quarter, pushing
yields up more than 3.5 percentage points, as traders added to
bets the nation will default. The Greek parliament is debating a
package of budget cuts and asset sales that’s needed before the
nation can tap a fifth loan payment from last year’s 110
billion-euro bailout accord.  Creditors including German and French banks may be headed
toward a rollover agreement involving 70 percent of their bonds
to prevent  Greece  from running out of cash. The proposal by
French banks depends upon credit-rating firms not cutting their
grade on Greece and existing or newly issued government
securities to default, according to a draft of the plan.  Germany’s biggest banks and insurers will meet with the
 Finance Ministry  in Berlin tomorrow as they seek to reach an
agreement on their contribution to a Greek aid package,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  “The market is looking more to the positive side right now
and that’s spilling over into general sentiment toward
peripherals,” said Marius Daheim, a senior fixed-income
strategist at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich. “The news flow
regarding Greece has been slightly upbeat. It looks like there
is a chance we will see an approval of the new savings package,
which will clear the way for further funding.”  ‘No Plan B’  Fitch Ratings  will “very likely” deem Greece in default
should the European Union go ahead with the plan to get private
investors to roll over their Greek bonds,  David Riley , London-
based head of sovereign ratings, wrote in a letter in the
Financial Times today. There is “no plan B” for Greece to
avoid default if it doesn’t endorse the revised economic plan,
European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said
in a statement today.  German two-year notes dropped, with the yield rising nine
basis points to 1.47 percent. The 10-year bund yield was four
basis points higher at 2.93 percent.  “We’re taking the decision progressively to anchor
inflation expectations,” Trichet said at a press conference in
Amsterdam today following a seminar with central bankers from
the Asia-Pacific region. “As far as we’re concerned, we’re in
strong vigilance mode.”  Trichet has used the “strong vigilance” phrasing in
speeches before previous interest-rate increases.  Inflation quickened to 2.1 percent in the German state of
Hesse and to 2.5 percent in North Rhine-Westphalia, data today
showed.  Italian Auction  The yield on 10-year Italian securities was little changed,
after earlier rising as much as four basis points to 5 percent.
The nation sold 3 billion euros of 10-year bonds at a yield of
4.94 percent, up from 4.73 percent when securities of similar
maturity were auctioned on May 30. Investors demanded 1.33 times
the amount of bonds sold, compared with a bid-to-cover ratio of
1.50 at the last sale.  Market research group GfK AG forecast that its consumer
sentiment index, based on a survey of about 2,000 Germans, will
rise to 5.7 in July from a revised 5.6 in June. Economists in a
Bloomberg survey predicted the index would fall to 5.3.  Germany  plans to sell 60 billion euros of debt in the third
quarter, the Federal Finance Agency said, cutting its sales
target by 16 percent from December.  German  government bonds  handed investors a profit of 0.8
percent this year, compared with 3.4 percent for U.S. Treasuries
and 3.2 percent for U.K. gilts, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  