-- 
Inflation Accelerated in Three German States as ECB Prepares to Raise Rate

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-06-28T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/german-state-of-hesse-says-inflation-quickened-on-energy-costs.html
Inflation in the German states of
North Rhine-Westphalia, Baden-Wuerttemberg and Hesse accelerated
in June, led by higher energy costs.  In Baden-Wuerttemberg, the inflation rate rose to 2.3
percent from 2.2 percent in May, while increasing to 2.5 percent
from 2.3 percent in North Rhine-Westphalia and to 2.1 percent
from 2 percent in Hesse, the states’ statistics offices said
today. Inflation held steady in Bavaria, Brandenburg and Saxony.
The Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden will release German
inflation, based on data from six states, later today.  Inflation in the 17-nation euro region has breached the
 European Central Bank ’s 2 percent limit every month since
December and President Jean-Claude Trichet today called for
strong vigilance on price threats, indicating a July increase in
the benchmark interest rate. While crude oil costs have
retreated over the past month, they’re still up 16 percent from
a year earlier, adding pressure on companies to raise prices.  “Upward pressure from energy prices may ease somewhat in
the coming months but inflation will remain above 2 percent for
quite some time,” said  Ralph Solveen , head of economic research
at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “The German economy is doing
well, inflation is accelerating and the cost situation is
becoming increasingly uncomfortable for companies.”  Economists expect the German harmonized inflation rate to
rise to 2.5 percent in June from 2.4 percent in the previous
month, the median of 19 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey shows.  In Baden-Wuerttemberg, heating oil prices jumped 19 percent
in June from a year earlier, today’s report showed. Fuel was 9.3
percent more expensive in the year.  Rising Confidence  BASF SE (BAS)  said on June 16 it’s raising prices for formic acid
in Europe and K+S AG, Europe’s biggest potash producer, in June
increased prices for the crop nutrient.  While euro-region governments from Ireland to  Spain  are
cutting spending to plug their budget deficits, the German
economy is showing few signs of slowdown, giving companies room
to pass on higher costs. Business confidence unexpectedly
increased in June and unemployment dropped for a 23rd straight
month in May, encouraging consumer demand.  The Bundesbank said on June 10 that “the prospects of the
German economy experiencing a lengthy period of expansion are
rising” and the recovery “has evolved into a broad-based
upturn.” The Frankfurt-based central bank forecasts  Europe ’s
largest economy will grow 3.1 percent this year after a record
3.6 percent expansion in 2010.  In the euro region, inflation probably accelerated to 2.8
percent in June from 2.7 percent in May, a separate survey
showed. Eurostat, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg, will release that data on June 30.  ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark said yesterday
that the bank is “ready not to leave the interest-rate increase
from April stand by itself.” Trichet said in Amsterdam today
that policy makers are “united on the goal of solidly anchoring
inflation expectations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Hamburg at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  