-- 
German Stocks Little Changed; Adidas, Puma Rise After Nike Beats Estimates

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-06-28T15:49:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/german-stocks-little-changed-adidas-puma-rise-after-nike-beats-estimates.html
German stocks advanced, paring four
days of losses on the benchmark  DAX Index (DAX) , as  Greece ’s Prime
Minister called on his country’s lawmakers to pass a five-year
austerity plan.  Adidas AG (ADS)  jumped 3.9 percent and Puma AG rose 2.6 percent
after  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest sporting-goods company,
reported fourth-quarter profits that exceeded analysts’
estimates after increasing its prices. Commerzbank AG rebounded
from a four day slump, rallying 4.6 percent.  The DAX advanced 62.53, or 0.9 percent, to 7,170.43 at the
5:30 p.m. close in  Frankfurt . The measure has fallen 4.8 percent
from this year’s high on May 2 as investors speculated that
Greece will fail to repay its debt. The broader HDAX Index
gained 0.8 percent today.  “Traders are not getting too far ahead of themselves with
the vote on the Greek austerity package nearing,” said  Giles Watts , the head of equities at City Index Ltd. in  London .
“Still, optimism is growing that with the wolves at Greece’s
gates,  Europe  is uniting at the right time to help the country
avoid a default that could send shockwaves throughout the rest
of the euro zone.”  European Central Bank Executive Board member Juergen Stark
told German newspaper Die Welt that he does not expect the
international community to finance Greece further after July if
the country fails to implement its austerity package.  In Athens, Greeks went on a 48-hour general strike before a
vote on June 29 to cut spending, sell state assets and increase
taxes. If lawmakers vote against the austerity measures, the
cash-strapped nation may default.  On Monday, Papandreou called on lawmakers to obey their
“patriotic conscience” and back the ruling Pasok party in the
vote.  Consumer Confidence   Market-research company GfK today forecast that its German
consumer sentiment index will increase to 5.7 in July from a
revised 5.6 in June as the German economy continues to grow
because of demand for its exports. Economists had predicted a
decline to 5.3 from an initial June estimate of 5.5, according
to the median of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  In the U.S., reports today showed that  house prices  fell in
April and consumer confidence dropped to a seven-month low in
June. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 4 percent from April 2010, the biggest year-on-year drop
since November 2009, according to the median forecast of 30
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Adidas, Puma  Adidas jumped 3.9 percent to 53.78 euros and Puma advanced
2.6 percent to 210.35 euros. Rival Nike reported fourth-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates after raising prices.  K+S AG gained 2 percent to 52.22 euros after Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. raised its potash price forecasts for the last half
of 2011 and 2012 by 6 to 9 percent.  Commerzbank surged 4.6 percent to 2.88 euros. Deutsche Bank
AG gained 2.2 percent to 39.77 euros.  Germany ’s biggest banks
and insurers will use a French proposal as a blueprint when they
meet with finance ministry officials in Berlin tomorrow to seek
an agreement on their role in a Greek rescue, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s biggest engineering company, sank 1.9
percent to 91 euros after the company’s Chief Financial Officer
 Joe Kaeser  said sales in its fiscal third quarter won’t increase
from the preceding three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  