-- 
German Banks, Insurers Said to Meet Government Tomorrow in Greek Aid Push

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-06-28T16:51:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/german-banks-said-to-meet-government-tomorrow-in-greek-aid-push.html
German banks and insurers will use a
French proposal as a blueprint for discussion when they meet
with finance ministry officials in Berlin tomorrow to seek an
agreement on their role in a Greek rescue, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The working-level talks will focus on possible adjustments
to the French banks’ plan to roll over a portion of maturing
bonds to help prevent a Greek default, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private.
 Germany ’s banking associations agreed with government officials
today to pursue such a model, one of the people said.  The talks are part of Europe-wide efforts to get creditors
to share the burden of a second Greek bailout and prevent the
euro-region’s first default, a year after a 110 billion-euro
($157 billion) package failed to stop the debt crisis from
spreading. German and French lenders are the biggest foreign
holders of Greek debt and their participation is key to the
European Union goal of getting banks to roll over at least 30
billion euros of bonds.  “The ingredients of the French model are highly likely
what will come out of this,”  Charles Dallara , managing director
of the Institute of International Finance, told reporters in
Istanbul today. The IIF represents more than 400 of the world’s
biggest financial firms globally.  Gulliver, Trichet  Dallara held discussions on Greece in  Rome  yesterday with
banking executives, representatives of the European Central Bank
and Vittorio Grilli,  Italy ’s director general of the Treasury
and head of the European Union’s Economic and Finance Committee.  In Britain, HSBC Holdings Plc Chief Executive Officer
 Stuart Gulliver  said the bank and other lenders are involved in
discussions led by the IIF. Among those in talks, “there appears
to be an emerging consensus that agreement is a week or two
away,” the CEO said in  London  today.  European Central Bank  President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said in
Amsterdam today that the rollover plan put forward by the French
is one of “several proposals being examined,” and that it’s a
matter for discussion by governments. The ECB has urged the EU
to avoid any plan that would lead to a Greek default.  Under the French plan, investors would agree to roll over
50 percent of their Greek government bond holdings maturing by
the middle of 2014 into new 30-year debt, according to a draft
obtained by Bloomberg News. The banks would invest another 20
percent of the redemptions in AAA-rated zero-coupon securities
to serve as collateral in case of a default.  Maturing Debt  Banks that roll over their debt under the French plan would
receive 30-year bonds with a coupon of about 5.5 percent, which
could be increased by as much as 2.5 percent based on the pace
of Greek economic growth, the people said.  In a second option, investors would reinvest at least 90
percent of their redemptions into five-year Greek government
debt with a coupon of 5.5 percent, according to the proposal.  The plan depends upon credit-rating firms not cutting their
grade on  Greece  and existing or newly issued government
securities to default, according to the draft. A Paris-based
spokeswoman at the French Banking Federation declined to comment
on the three-page report when contacted by Bloomberg.  European banks hold 17.2 billion euros of Greek bonds
maturing by the end of 2013, Citigroup Inc. estimated in a June
23 report. Greek banks hold almost 22 billion euros of bonds
coming due in that period, and the country’s central bank owned
5.1 billion euros of debt likely eligible for the rollover,
Citigroup estimated.  ‘Restricted Default’  Fitch Ratings  threatened to deem Greece in default if the
EU goes ahead with a plan to get private investors to roll over
their Greek bonds as part of an aid package for  Europe ’s most-
indebted nation, it said separately today.  “Fitch would very likely view such a scenario as a
sovereign-default event and place the Greek sovereign rating
into restricted default,”  David Riley , Fitch’s London-based
head of sovereign ratings, wrote in a letter in the Financial
Times today. Riley said too much attention is being focused on
trying to avoid a default rating.  A Finance Ministry spokesman declined to comment. Deutsche
Bank,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  DZ Bank , HVB Group, WestLB AG, Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg, WGZ Bank, DekaBank Deutsche Girozentrale,
HSH Nordbank AG, Allianz and  Munich Re  are among the companies
invited to the talks tomorrow, according to the people.
Spokesmen for the banks and insurers either declined to comment
or couldn’t immediately be reached by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  