-- 
Maria Sharapova Moves to Within Two Wins of Second Wimbledon Tennis Title

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-28T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/germany-s-wild-card-lisicki-beats-bartoli-to-reach-wimbledon-semifinals.html
Maria Sharapova  is two wins from her
second Wimbledon tennis title.  The 2004 champion defeated No. 24 seed Dominika Cibulkova
of Slovakia 6-1, 6-1 yesterday to set up a semifinal against
Sabine Lisicki, the first German woman in 12 years to get this
close to a Grand Slam championship. Lisicki, a wild card ranked
62nd in the world, beat  France ’s  Marion Bartoli , the No. 9 seed,
6-4, 6-7 (4-7), 6-1.  Fifth-seeded Sharapova is 12-3 in Grand Slam quarterfinals
and 4-0 at the All England Club, where before this year she
failed to reach the quarterfinals since 2006. In 2011, the 24-
year-old Russian won a tournament in Rome and was runner-up in
Miami. She also reached her first French Open semifinal and the
last four at  Indian Wells ,  California .  “I’ve worked really hard to get in this stage, but I’m not
saying this is where I want to end,” Sharapova told reporters.
“I want to keep going.”  Tomorrow’s other semifinal will be between Petra Kvitova
and  Victoria Azarenka , who will meet for the second straight
year at the tournament.  The men’s quarterfinals are scheduled today, with six-time
champion Roger Federer of Switzerland playing 12th-seeded Jo- Wilfried Tsonga from France on Centre Court and No. 2 seed Novak Djokovic from Serbia facing unseeded Australian 18-year-old
Bernard Tomic on Court No. 1.  Murray, Nadal  After those matches, Britain’s  Andy Murray  will seek to
overcome  Spain ’s Feliciano Lopez on Centre Court and defending
champion  Rafael Nadal , another Spaniard, will take on American
10th seed Mardy Fish on Court No. 1.  Yesterday, Kvitova beat Bulgarian Tsvetana Pironkova 6-3,
6-7 (5-7), 6-2, while No. 4 seed Azarenka of Belarus advanced
with a 6-3, 6-1 win against 80th-ranked Tamira Paszek of
Austria.  It was the first time since 1913 that all eight women’s
quarterfinalists at Wimbledon came from  Europe .  Last year, Kvitova beat Azarenka 7-5, 6-0 in the third
round and went on to the semifinals, where she lost to eventual
champion  Serena Williams .  Lisicki recovered after squandering three match points in
the second set, which Bartoli won in a tiebreaker, to become the
first German woman to reach the semifinal of a Grand Slam since
22-time major singles champion Steffi Graf in 1999.  “I was disappointed with myself,” Lisicki said in a
televised interview. “But I felt that I was the better player
and I knew I had to focus and fight in the third set.”  Thunder Storm  Thunder, lightning and heavy rain accompanied part of
Lisicki’s match, which was watched from the Royal Box by U.S.
Open golf champion Rory McIlroy.  The 21-year-old Lisicki, who has delivered the fastest
serve of the women’s tournament at 124 miles-per-hour (199kph),
beat French Open champion Li Na in the second round.  Lisicki reached the quarterfinals two years ago and missed
last year’s Wimbledon with an ankle injury that kept her away
from the tour for five months. She earned a wild-card entry from
the All  England  Club this year after winning a grass-court event
in Birmingham, England, this month.  Bartoli, the 2007 runner-up, beat defending champion Serena
Williams to reach the quarterfinals, while Pironkova ousted
five-time champion Venus Williams for the second year in a row.  The results meant the quarterfinals didn’t include a
Williams sister for the first time since 2006. The Americans had
taken nine of the past 11 singles titles at Wimbledon and have
also won four doubles championships together.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  