-- 
GM Targets BMW-Style Options for Opel Models for Audi-Style Pricing: Cars

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-06-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/gm-seeing-no-return-in-opel-less-than-audi-plans-options-cars.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s European Opel
unit is introducing models with advanced options typically sold
on luxury cars, seeking to revive a business that’s lost $14.5
billion since 1999.  The GM unit is working with AlixPartners LLP on how to
tweak options packages or production plans to spur higher
prices, said two people familiar with the matter. They are also
studying ways to reduce engineering and manufacturing costs,
said the people, who asked not to be identified disclosing
private plans. Some new features include headlights tuned to
high-speed driving on the Autobahn.  Opel Chief Executive Officer Karl Friedrich Stracke, who
has predicted an operating profit for the year, has been unable
to raise prices to compensate for high German labor rates
because its models lack rivals’ cachet. The GM brand’s Astra
is offered for 15 percent less than a comparably equipped Golf 
by  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   “They can’t price their cars like Audi or BMW,” said
Thomas Stallkamp, principal of Collaborative Management LLC, a
Naples, Florida-based consulting firm. Stallkamp, a former
Chrysler Corp. president, was a partner at private-equity firm
Ripplewood Holdings Inc. when it tried to buy Opel in 2009.
“They’re like the Chrysler of Europe.”  The high cost of making Opels and their low prices,
especially in  Germany , make the company unattractive for sale,
Stallkamp said. GM has declined to comment on reports about the
unit being available for sale, saying they are based on
speculation.  Gaining Ground  While GM executives have discussed a sale, the talks didn’t
advance to a serious stage, said three people involved in the
matter. GM hasn’t started a sale process or enlisted its usual
banking advisers --  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Morgan Stanley,
 Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  or Germany’s  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  -- about
selling Opel, the people said.  Opel has gained market share in Europe so far this year and
is breaking even on an operating basis. The challenge is to go
beyond stemming the losses and make consistent profit in the
region, said Barclays Capital analyst  Brian Johnson .  “It is stabilizing,” said Barclays Capital analyst Brian
Johnson. “They could run it near break-even in a recovering
European market. Perhaps management’s ambitions are higher and
that it has to hit some kind of internal target.”  GM’s first-quarter loss in Europe was because of a $395
million writedown of goodwill. Without that charge, GM’s
European operations would have made a $5 million profit.  Engineering Needs  Selling Opel outright is problematic for GM because the
automaker relies on Opel to engineer small and midsize cars,
said  Michael Robinet , vice president of Lexington, Massachusetts
consulting firm IHS Automotive. Opel performs much of the
engineering for the Chevrolet Malibu midsize sedan and Cruze
compact, as well as cars of similar size sold by other brands.  In the future, even more vehicles -- such as the popular
Chevrolet Equinox crossover SUV -- could be built using vehicle
platforms engineered by Opel, Robinet said.  Management could also decide to form an alliance with a
trusted partner like SAIC, GM’s sidekick in  China , to help run
the business more efficiently,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  analyst Adam Jonas
said in a research note.  Opel has gained market share in Europe’s core markets with
sales rising 6 percent through May to give the company a market
share of 7.4 percent, up from 7 percent last year.  A base model Opel Astra compact costs 20,240 euros
($28,900) in Germany, while Volkswagen charges 23,400 euros for
a comparably equipped Golf. The base model of the midsize Opel
Insignia is priced at 26,280 euros compared with 28,025 euros
for Volkswagen’s Passat.  In  England , where Opels are sold under the Vauxhall brand,
the Corsa sells at an 11 percent discount to the Golf.  Lost Customer  Stefan Wilke, 33, a mechanical engineer at Siemens AG in
Berlin, sold his Astra and bought a Golf saying GM’s brand is
uninspiring.  “Opel lacks a coherent model portfolio like Volkswagen or
Audi,” Wilke said. “And in terms of design and image, the cars
are anything but inspirational. The brand is just not in the
same league as VW and Audi although they’re not of bad
quality.”  Reaching the next level will be difficult because Opel
doesn’t even get the kind of prices in Europe as rival  Ford
Motor Co. (F) , said  Jim Hall , principal of consulting firm 2953
Analytics Inc. in Birmingham,  Michigan . Opel needs new models to
attract consumers and overcome ill will over job cuts made by
the brand’s U.S. owners, Hall said.  “Building up the brand could take four or five years,”
Hall said.  New Zafira  Later this year, Opel and Vauxhaul will launch a new Zafira
minivan that will have more upscale features and sell at a
higher price, said Klaus-Peter Martin, a GM spokesman. The
European brands will continue to sell the current Zafira to
offer a lower price for other buyers, Martin said.  GM is investing 11 billion euros in the brand through 2014,
Stracke said this month.   The two-door Astra GTC goes on sale in the second half 
followed by the Combo commercial van at the end of the year. 
In the first half of next year, the new Astra sedan reaches the 
market, GM said.  Opel is trying to offer high-tech options normally sold on
luxury cars as a way to boost vehicle profits, as well. The
Insignia and Astra now have an option called “forward
lighting” that adjusts the headlight angle for high-speed
driving. The headlights also turn with the front wheels.  Opel is also trying to increase sales outside of Germany,
where Volkswagen dominates, said Garel Rhys, president of the
auto industry research center at Cardiff University in Cardiff,
Wales. Opel’s sales are up 23 percent in both  Spain  and  France .
Those gains are from a small base of sales. Opel has just 4.1
percent of the French market, according to IHS Automotive.  “The problem for Opel is that Volkswagen has deepened and
widened its position in Germany,” Rhys said in a telephone
interview. “They’re really out of sight. Opel will have to
increase penetration in markets like  Italy , France and Spain and
eastern  Europe .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  