-- 
NYSE Amex Options Stake Sale to Seven Brokers Wins SEC Approval

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-06-28T20:15:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/goldman-among-seven-brokers-cleared-to-buy-53-of-nyse-amex-options-market.html
NYSE Amex’s sale of almost 53
percent of its options market to seven brokers won regulatory
approval more than 21 months after it was first announced.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission approved the
joint venture that gives 52.8 percent of that options market to
brokers including units of Citadel LLC and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  in exchange for sending orders to the venue, according to a
 notice  dated June 24. NYSE Amex is owned by exchange operator
NYSE Euronext, which also runs another options market.  “This will allow Amex to attract more order flow,” said
Bob Fitzsimmons, Chicago-based head of derivatives for
Investment Technology Group Inc. “Those large broker-dealers
now have an incentive to direct more order flow to Amex.”  NYSE Amex’s share of total U.S. options trading rose to
13.4 percent in May from 6.1 percent in August 2009, the month
before the joint venture was  announced , according to data
compiled by Chicago-based OCC. Amex is now the fourth-largest
individual market. The OCC clears all options volume.  The seven broker-dealer owners must send a minimum number
of options contracts to the exchange for five years and three
months, according to the agreement. NYSE Amex will adjust the
brokers’ share of the 52.8 percent each year based on whether
they meet targets tailored to each firm. No brokerage will own
more than 19.9 percent, the limit allowed by the SEC.  ‘Best Owners’  “Our best customers are potentially our best owners,”
Steve Crutchfield, chief executive officer of NYSE Amex Options,
said in an interview. “This consolidates our relationship with
seven of the best order-providing firms in the industry and
allows us to work more closely with them to understand their
needs and the needs of their clients as we structure the
business.”  Crutchfield said he expects to see “additional growth” in
Amex’s market share once the joint venture is completed, and
expects the deal to close in the “coming days.”  “Their collective leverage in some of the businesses in
which we operate is not to be trivialized,”  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  Chief
Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  said about the importance of
brokers to exchanges’ trading volume at a UBS conference on May
10, according to a transcript. Increasing trading volume
requires being “a little creative in terms of organizational
construct, business model, et cetera,” he said.  Citadel and Goldman Sachs will initially own 14.95 percent
each, followed by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD)  at 5 percent each, with  UBS AG (UBSN)  at 4.9
percent and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  at 3 percent.  Revenue From Trading  Goldman Sachs, based in New York, is the U.S. bank that
makes the most revenue from trading. Chicago-based Citadel runs
a brokerage as well as a hedge fund. Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America is the nation’s biggest bank by assets,
and Citigroup of New York is No. 3. TD Ameritrade of Omaha,
Nebraska, is the third-largest U.S. retail brokerage by client
assets. Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBS)  is Switzerland’s biggest bank, and
London-based Barclays is the U.K.’s third-largest lender.  New York-based NYSE Euronext submitted its proposal, which
it has worked on with the SEC since 2009, as competition in the
options industry intensified. Nine exchanges now trade equity
options, compared with five a decade ago.  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) 
runs the  Chicago Board Options Exchange , which began trading
equity derivatives in 1973 and is now the second-largest market
operator after New York-based  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , whose two
venues had almost 29 percent of total volume last month.  Selling Stakes  Bats Global Markets, Direct Edge Holdings LLC and Chi-X
Europe Ltd. have sold stakes in their markets in the past few
years to groups of brokers that could send them orders. Bats,
owned in part by Bank of America, Tradebot Systems Inc. and
Getco LLC, said in February it would buy Chi-X Europe and
operate it on the same technology platform as its current
European venue. Bats is based in Lenexa, Kansas.  The owners of Direct Edge, which is based in  Jersey City ,
 New Jersey , include options market  International Securities
Exchange ,  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) , Citadel and Goldman Sachs.
Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse  AG, which owns ISE, said in
February it plans to buy NYSE Euronext in a deal currently
valued at $9.02 billion, according to Bloomberg data. NYSE
Euronext hasn’t said what it plans to do with ISE’s stake in
Direct Edge after the acquisition by Deutsche Boerse.  Vying for Business  Options exchanges are vying for business in an increasingly
competitive market that’s growing faster than equities. U.S.
options volume rose 8 percent last year to 3.9 billion
contracts, for an eighth-straight annual record, OCC said.
Average daily U.S. equities volume last year was 8.5 billion
shares, down from 9.8 billion in 2009, Bloomberg data show.  NYSE Amex will retain regulatory control over the options
market and will have the right to buy some or all of the equity
stakes of the seven brokers in 10 years. The deal with the
brokers doesn’t affect the ownership of NYSE Amex’s equities
market, although they use the same regulatory license to operate
their exchanges.  “We’re very pleased with the market share growth we’ve
seen on Amex over the last 18 months,” Crutchfield said. “We
hope it turns out to be a good investment for our partner
firms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 