-- 
Google Takes On Facebook With Social Service

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-06-28T20:33:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/google-takes-on-facebook-with-new-social-networking-service.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s biggest
Internet-search company, is making a fresh attempt at social
networking with a service to compete with Facebook Inc.’s site.  The service, called Google+, looks similar to Facebook,
with streaming updates of photos, messages, comments and other
content from selected groups of friends, said Bradley Horowitz,
vice president,  product management . The service, which will
integrate with Google’s maps and images, seeks to help people
organize social contacts easily within groups of friends.  “Instead of coming directly at Facebook, which would be
suicidal, I think they’ve recognized that they have to grow out
from a niche -- and the niche here is people who want to be
connected with a specific circle or a specific group,” Josh Bernoff, an analyst with Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Forrester Research Inc. “In that context this has a chance to
be a small success.”  As  Internet users  spend more time on social-networking
sites, Google is releasing new social features to lure Web
surfers to its own services and expand advertising sales.
Facebook, the world’s most popular social network, captured 13
percent of total hours people spent online in May, while Google
attracted 10 percent, according to  ComScore Inc.   ‘Changing Quality’  “It’s something that is changing the quality of Google
itself,” Horowitz said of the push into social networks. “It’s
the Google you know and love, but now with people.”  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  is starting Google+
after missteps last year with the introduction of a social
component to  Gmail  called Buzz. In March, Google reached a
settlement with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission to resolve
concerns it violated its own privacy policies.  Google also made an earlier foray in social networking with
its Orkut site, started in 2004. While the service made inroads
emerging markets such as  Brazil , it hasn’t matched the growth of
Facebook globally.  Executive Chairman  Eric Schmidt , CEO for a decade before
Page assumed the role, said earlier this month that he “screwed
up” in the area of social networking. “I clearly knew I had to
do something and I failed to do it,” he said.  ‘Getting Started’  The new service will initially be available to only a
limited set of users. The company has been testing Google+
internally and is now ready to gradually open up what it calls a
“project” to the general public.  “This is a project that will span many years,” Horowitz
said. “This is not something where we’re done. On the contrary
-- we’re just getting started, laying some of the foundation and
then many features will evolve.”  With Google+, users easily share information based on the
circle of friends they think would most like to see a photo or
read a message, such as immediate family or people who like a
certain hobby or sports team. Once users sign up, they have a
profile page with security settings that let them share or hide
personal information, such as education or job descriptions.
Contacts are suggested based on user e-mail accounts.  “What Google is doing is leveraging the fact that you have
a lot of contacts in your e-mail; the biggest network you have
is your address book,” said Charlene Li, founding partner and
technology analyst at the Altimeter Group in  San Mateo ,
 California . “Friend management, contact management, has always
been an issue when it comes to Facebook.”  Sparks, Hangouts  Other Google+ features include Sparks, which gathers videos
and articles on topics of interests or hobbies, and Hangouts,
which lets friends join video chat with multiple people at once.
There is also a mobile version of Google+ for handsets running
the Android software, and the company seeking approval from
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to introduce a service for the iPhone. The mobile
version enables text-message chats with multiple users and, with
an opt-in, photos and videos are automatically stored in an
online album for later access.  Shares of Google, based in  Mountain View , California, rose
$10.85, or 2.3 percent, to $493.65 at 4 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have fallen 17 percent this
year.  Access to the social service will be on a tool bar that
runs across the top of some Google products, including maps and
images.  “We already have users,” Horowitz said. “This isn’t a
startup that’s trying to acquire users. The users are here
already. It’s just that the experience we’ve offered them is
incoherent and disconnected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  