-- 
Greek Debt, U.S. Storms Threaten to Roil Reinsurers as Capital Dwindles

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-06-28T12:21:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/greek-debt-u-s-storms-may-roil-reinsurers-as-capital-dwindles.html
A Greek default and potential losses
from the  Atlantic hurricane season  could lead to consolidation
among reinsurers after catastrophes in  Japan  and the U.S. hurt
excess capital, reinsurers say.  “Many reinsurers are watchful of the hurricane season and
a threat of another financial crisis,” Jacopo D’Antonio, the
chief underwriting officer of Aspen Re’s European unit, said in
an interview from Zurich. “The events of the first and the
second quarter have started to erode many reinsurers’ excess
capital and flexibility is declining.”  June marked the beginning of the Atlantic hurricane season,
which runs through November. Hurricanes caused $152.4 billion in
insured losses in the U.S. from 1990 to 2009 and accounted for
45 percent of the country’s catastrophic losses in the period,
according to the  Insurance Information Institute  in  New York .  This year the industry may be under greater strain because
of the claims already amassed from tornadoes in the U.S. in
April and May, as well as the earthquakes in Japan and  New
Zealand , and floods in  Australia . Forecasts call for the
Atlantic to be more active than in an average year, which
produces 11 named storms. The Atlantic has a 65 percent chance
of producing 12 to 18 storms, with six to 10 of them becoming
hurricanes, according to the U.S. Climate Prediction Center.  Reinsurers including Aspen Re, Scor, Catlin Re and Willis
Re meet in Zurich today to discuss pressure from new regulation
and the effects from natural catastrophe losses, reinsurance
rates and the current debt crisis.  Profit Squeezed  “The catastrophes we’ve had in the first quarter are
equivalent to the total of catastrophes we’ve had in 2010, so
yes, it will impact on the profitability of businesses going
forward,” Richard Ward, chief executive officer of Lloyd’s of
 London , said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness with Margaret Brennan” on June 24.  Meanwhile, it is becoming harder for reinsurers to make an
underwriting profit as the economic environment has depressed
investment income while reinsurance prices have declined.  “Rates have been pushed down significantly over recent
years to close to unprofitable levels and they now need to
recover,” Ward said.  If another financial crisis occurs because of a sudden
Greek default and reinsurance rates don’t go up, this could lead
to consolidation among reinsurers, according to D’Antonio.  Reinsurance Deals  “Companies that are not diversified and focus on one
single product, for instance writing mostly property-catastrophe
business, are more vulnerable and might go through a process of
consolidation in case of further natural-catastrophe activity,”
he said.  Transatlantic Holdings Inc. (TRH)  agreed to merge with Allied
World Assurance Co. Holdings AG, based in Zug,  Switzerland , on
June 12 in a $3.2 billion deal, and Bermuda-based Alterra
Capital Holdings Ltd. was formed last year by the merger of Max
Capital Ltd. and Harbor Point Ltd. as clients and investors
prefer carriers with larger capital bases.  The European debt crisis “is one of many potential risks
which is calling for more diversification,” Peter Schmidt, CEO
of Catlin Re Switzerland, said in Zurich today. “Insurers and
reinsurers should diversify their investments more and primary
insurers should buy reinsurance from a broad group of companies
and not just from a few providers.”  While losses from direct holdings in Greek government bonds
wouldn’t be devastating, the greater risk would be a contagion
that spreads to bigger economies in  Europe , said  Christian Muschick , a Frankfurt-based analyst with Silvia Quandt Research.  “Only if a Greek default causes Italy and perhaps  Spain  to
default could this be life-threatening to some companies,”
Muschick said.  Fitch Ratings  said on June 27 that European insurers’
holdings in Greek, Italian and Portuguese sovereign bonds are
“manageable,” adding that companies could be downgraded if the
risks of contagion “lead to a protracted period of severe and
broad impact across the European markets, with significant
credit spread widening and sharp falls in market values.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 