-- 
Greece’s ‘Indignants’ Confront Politicians They Blame for Financial Plight

-- B y   E l e n i   C h r e p a   a n d   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 
2011-06-28T21:40:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/greece-s-indignants-confront-politicians-they-blame-for-financial-plight.html
His face covered in white powder to
stop the tear gas from stinging, George Styliatis is into his
second month of trying to topple  Greece ’s leadership.  “We need this government to fall, we need a new
constitution, a new Greece,” Styliatis, 41, an unemployed
former ambulance driver, said as he mingled in central Athens
during a general strike yesterday. “They wanted us divided, but
at this time, as you see around us, all the people are here.”  Nowhere in Europe are politicians facing the wrath of the
people who put them in power more than in Greece.  As Prime Minister  George Papandreou  tries to unite his
party behind a package of cuts, increased taxes and asset sales,
protesters are galvanizing their opposition to the politicians
they blame for needing it in the first place. Lawmakers cast
ballots today and tomorrow on the austerity measures, conditions
for more foreign aid needed to prevent Greece from becoming the
first European Union member to default on its debt.  Anger has turned  Syntagma Square  opposite the parliament in
 Athens  into a symbol of the clash between the direct democracy
of the ancient world and the decay of modern Greek politics,
which started with the end of the military junta in 1974.  “A big percentage of the Greek people is under-represented
in the Greek Parliament,” Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos,
appointed this month by Papandreou to bolster support for the
economic plan, said in a speech in parliament late yesterday.
“They should come so we can have a serious discussion. We are
obliged to take such initiatives.”  Facing Reality  The daily crowds, who call themselves the “indignants”
after a Spanish protest group, are also a reflection of how
Greeks are balking at having to pay for an economy that was
living on borrowed money, according to Stathis Kalyvas, a
professor of political science at  Yale University  who did his
first degree in Athens.  “The main messages coming out of it smack of the same kind
of populism that got the country in its current trouble: the
belief in easy solutions, the refusal to face up to reality,”
Kalyvas said by e-mail from the U.S.  Papandreou’s latest, five-year, 78 billion-euro ($112
billion) plan includes higher taxes on restaurants and bars and
for heating oil and lowering the tax-free threshold to 8,000
euros from 12,000 euros. Newspaper  To Vima  calculated the
additional burden for an average Greek family of four at 2,795
euros a year, about the same as one month’s income.  No Stopping  The economy contracted 4.4 percent in 2010 and will shrink
a further 3.8 percent this year, according to EU and
International Monetary Fund inspectors in June. The nation’s
debt will peak at 166 percent of gross domestic product next
year, or two-thirds more than the size of the economy. Greek
two-year bonds have plunged and now yield 26 percent.  “We won’t stop our efforts whether they vote for the plan
or not,” Yiannis Koutsogiannis, 60, a municipal worker in the
Athens suburb of Iraklio, said as he took part in the general
strike yesterday with police dispersing groups with tear gas.
“They caused this crisis not the workers.”  The relationship between Greek voters and their politicians
is about doing favors in return for power, according to
Athanasios Tsakiris, a doctor of political science at the
 National and Kapodistrian University of Athens .  Employment Machine  The Greek state turned into an employment machine, from
bureaucrats in villages to workers at government-controlled
enterprises. When people stopped working, they got among the
most generous retirement benefits in  Europe .  Economic growth averaged 4.4 percent a year between 2000
and 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and there was
no shortage of credit. In 2001, Greece joined the euro and
ditched the drachma.  Railway workers earned four times more in salaries than
total ticket sales, while the Athens bus operator had 2,000
vehicles and three times as many people to run them, according
to figures from the companies and government last year.  Greek pensioners on average lived on 96 percent of the
salary they had when they worked, more than twice the proportion
of earnings as Germans, according to the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development last year.  “The politicians were using their ‘clients,’ meaning the
voters, to gain power and the ‘clients’ would put up with the
situation to secure the family income,” said Tsakiris. “This
is the way the public sector has been working all those years.”  Pitched Tents  The protest on Syntagma Square has escalated since May 26
into a permanent demonstration with more than 100 tents pitched
outside the parliament. On weekends, families mix with students
and union groups. Police said the largest rally was on June 5,
when 50,000 people gathered.  Almost 68 percent of Greeks support the action, according
to a poll by the Statistics Department of the Athens-based
 University of Economics and Businesses  between June 10 and June
17 in the area of Attica, which includes Athens, and Central
Macedonia, where the second city of Thessaloniki is located.  Municipal worker Koutsogiannis’s complaint is that he will
get 600 to 700 euros a month in retirement after 40 years in
work while a politician gets a “fat pension,” he said.  Greek members of parliament are entitled to a lifetime
pension of at least 1,000 euros a month after having served for
two terms, or eight years, according to Athanasios Papaioannou,
general secretary of the  parliament . While lawmakers have taken
a 25 percent pay cut, they still have drivers, leased cars,
bodyguards and immunity from prosecution.  Blaming Politicians  “All these years our government didn’t work for us,” said
Maria Boulis, 23 and unemployed. “We have to have a government
that cares about us, not for their own profit.”  The gripe is echoed across Syntagma Square, where people
blame the 300 lawmakers for the economic crisis and lament the
dynastic nature of Greek politics.  The two biggest political parties,  Pasok  and  New Democracy ,
have been switching places in government since the military
dictatorship. Papandreou is the son of Pasok founder Andreas Papandreou, while his predecessor, Konstantinos Karamanlis, is
the nephew of the founder of his party.  “The two big parties in Greece for a long time are looking
out only for their own personal profit,” Yiannis Aivaliatos,
56, an environmental technician who attended protests at
Syntagma on June 21 as Papandreou, 59, faced a confidence vote
in parliament he later won. “We believe something new will be
born from this gathering of the people.”  New Politics?  Papandreou plans a referendum on the Greek political
system, including removing the immunity from “criminal
responsibility” that applies to members of parliament.  “On top of our priorities is a new constitution,
intelligible for all citizens,” Papandreou said on June 19. He
said changes will be made in the way parliament is run, the
number of members, ministerial remits, party financing and the
election and justice systems.  In the meantime, Papandreou is focusing on trying to unite
his Pasok deputies behind the austerity package in parliament.
He replaced Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  with
Venizelos in an effort to shore up support after two of his
lawmakers quit parliament on June 17.  Styliatis, the former ambulance driver who has demonstrated
in Syntagma Square since May 26, is urging Pasok, traditionally
supported by the unions, to vote against the plan. He reckons
Greece should walk away from its debt and go back to the drachma
because Papandreou is “selling out” to foreign interests.  “People must not leave the square,” he said. “This road
that they have put us on leads nowhere. The debt we have now is
shameful. It is mostly interest that we are paying to bankers
and that must be stopped.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  