-- 
French Greek Rollover Plan Depends on No Default Rating

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-06-28T16:33:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/greek-rollover-plan-needs-no-default-rating.html
A proposal by French banks to roll
over Greek debt depends on credit-rating firms not cutting
 Greece  and existing or newly issued government securities to
default, according to a draft of the plan.  European banks and insurers are using the French proposal
as a blueprint for discussions toward an agreement to meet
politicians’ calls that they contribute to Greece’s second
rescue in two years.  Fitch Ratings  will “very likely” deem Greece in default
if the European Union goes ahead with a plan to get private
investors to roll over their Greek bonds as part of the Greek
rescue.  “Fitch would very likely view such a scenario as a
sovereign-default event and place the Greek sovereign rating
into restricted default,”  David Riley , Fitch’s London-based
head of sovereign ratings, wrote in a letter in the Financial
Times today. A spokesman for  Standard & Poor’s  declined to
comment.  EU leaders are pushing for private investors to shoulder
some of the cost of a new aid plan for Greece and are seeking to
convince bondholders to roll over at least 30 billion euros ($43
billion) of Greek debt maturing in the next three years into new
securities to help the country close a funding gap.  Bond Guarantee  Under the French plan, owners of Greek bonds maturing by
mid-2014 would agree to roll over 50 percent of their holdings
into new Greek bonds with a 30-year maturity. Another 20 percent
will be used to buy zero-coupon AAA-rated bonds through a
special-purpose vehicle to act as collateral against a possible
Greek default.  The new 30-year bonds will have a “full-principal guarantee
by a SPV collateralized by zero-coupon bonds purchased from one
or more AAA-rated sovereigns, supranational institutions, or
European agencies,” the document said.  The new Greek bonds would have an interest rate of 5.5
percent and investors would receive a bonus on the coupon
equivalent to Greek gross domestic product growth of up to 2.5
percentage points.  Under a second option, investors would agree to roll over
90 percent of their holdings in five-year Greek bonds with an
interest rate of 5.5 percent, the document said.  The plan is working on the assumption that there are 85.5
billion euros of Greek bonds maturing between July and mid-2014
and that the  European Central Bank  and other euro-region central
banks own 25 billion of that amount, the document says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  