-- 
Greek Vote Obscures Europe’s Unsavory Choices: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-28T22:16:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/greek-vote-obscures-the-european-union-s-unsavory-choices-view.html
The Greek government is poised to
push through Parliament an austerity package needed to avert a
default on billions of euros in government debt. Success,
though, will only postpone an unsavory choice that the euro
area’s leaders will face sooner or later: Let  Greece  go and put
both the European experiment and the global economy at risk, or
forge a deeper union in the face of opposition from their
voters.  The Greek crisis has become a defining moment in a project
that traces back to the 1950s, when a small group of politicians
started what would eventually be known as the European Union.
Their aim was to form such strong political and economic ties
that the horrors of World War II could never happen again.  Now that experiment hangs in the balance. Germans are
seething over having to help what they view as Greek
freeloaders. Greece’s trade unions are striking, and citizens
are rioting over measures that will increase taxes, reduce
pensions and slash incomes. Markets are gyrating amid fears that
the conflict between  Europe ’s core and periphery will lead to
financial disaster.  The wrangling in the Greek parliament over the $112 billion
(78 billion euro) austerity package, and European officials’
efforts to bring private creditors into a new bailout, obscures
the magnitude of Greece’s problems. The government simply can’t
pay its  debts , now more than 150 percent of gross domestic
product.  Three Decades  Even if Greece gets its bailout and its economy rebounds,
the government would have to run a  budget surplus , excluding
debt-service costs, of 5 percent of GDP for about three decades
to bring down debt to the 60 percent maximum allowed by euro-
area rules. Achieving such a fiscal feat for even five years is
extremely rare for any government, let alone Greece’s.  The Greeks, of course, bear the main responsibility for
their predicament. They effectively lied their way into the
euro, presenting deficit figures that were wildly understated.
The country consumed far more than it earned and borrowed to
make up the difference.  Tax evasion  is a national sport.  Greece’s foibles, though, would not have led to a crisis
without the help of  Germany  and  France . They set the precedent
when, for three years beginning in 2002, they exceeded the
prescribed budget-deficit limits with impunity.  Leading Role  What’s more, France and Germany played the leading role in
setting capital rules that encouraged German and French banks to
finance Greece’s profligacy, and then required too little equity
to absorb the potential losses. Because of lax oversight of
derivatives markets, regulators now have little idea where the
losses will turn up if Greece reneges on its debts.  There are two ways the responsible parties can rectify
their mistakes. One is to recognize that Greece should never
have joined the euro. If it can’t or won’t swallow austerity
measures, let it leave and default on its debts.  But the risks of allowing Greece to fail are similar to
what the U.S. faced with the 2008 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
bankruptcy. Uncertainty about losses would very likely undermine
confidence in European banks and in the governments that would
have to bail them out. If Greece’s failure led to a credit
freeze, that would threaten banks with insolvency and cause
losses for institutions that hold those banks’ debts, including
the money-market mutual funds entrusted with $2.7 trillion in
U.S. savings.  Financial Mayhem  It’s easy to picture an outcome in which credit-starved
companies started firing workers, economies headed back toward
recession and governments’ own parlous finances prevented
officials from stepping in to restore confidence. The financial
mayhem would put pressure on Portugal and Ireland -- and
possibly also Belgium, Italy and  Spain  -- to follow Greece into
default and out of the euro, splitting Europe along economic
fault lines.  The alternative path is only slightly less ugly and unfair.
It would require the euro area, led by Germany and France, to
assume much of Greece’s $495 billion (345 billion euros) in debt
indefinitely and be prepared to take on the debts of Portugal
and Ireland as well. The Greeks, for their part, would have to
suffer deep wage and benefit cuts to restore their country’s
competitiveness.  To help make such adjustments bearable, euro-area nations
would have to provide money to support social-safety nets, most
likely through a unified finance ministry that many voters would
consider a loss of sovereignty.  Even if Europe’s leaders managed to overcome the political
obstacles, there’s no guarantee that a deeper union would solve
the immediate crisis. Taking on the debts of strapped
governments would push up borrowing costs for major European
economies. That could prove painful for countries with large
debt burdens -- particularly  Italy , where government debt
exceeds 100 percent of GDP.  Risky as it may be, taking responsibility for Greece’s
problems is the least bad option for Europe. This is no longer
about saving Greece. This is about self-preservation.  For more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 