-- 
ICC Reverses Decision, Keeps 14-Team Format for 2015 Cricket World Cup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-06-28T13:32:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/icc-reverses-decision-keeps-14-team-format-for-2015-cricket-world-cup.html
Cricket’s ruling body reversed an
earlier decision and will keep a 14-team format for the 2015
 World Cup , allowing lower-ranked nations such as Ireland and
the Netherlands to continue taking part.  Originally the ICC planned to cut the participants to
10 “full member” Test-playing nations, excluding the
“associates” who don’t play the longer form of the game. Four
lower-ranked nations will now take part after a qualifying
process, the ICC announced at its annual conference in  Hong Kong .  The ruling body’s original decision was made after
criticism that this year’s World Cup took too long, lasting from
Feb. 19 to April 2 in Bangladesh, India and Sri Lanka. The ICC
looked at the matter again after complaints from some national
associations over the cut to 10 teams.  “The ICC executive board today reversed its previous
decisions and approved a 14-team format for the ICC Cricket
World Cup 2015 to be held in  Australia  and New Zealand and a
12-team format for the ICC World Twenty20 events in 2012 (Sri
Lanka) and 2014 (Bangladesh),” the ICC said in a release.
Originally the Twenty20 events were to include 16 teams, up
from 12.  The 2011 World Cup, won by India, also had 10 full-member
teams and four lower-ranked squads.  While none of the lower-ranked nations made it to the
quarterfinals, Ireland had one of the biggest upsets in World
Cup history. It beat England after chasing down a record victory
target of 328. The other second-tier members at the tournament
were  Canada , Kenya and the Netherlands.  Rankings System  The 2019 World Cup will be a 10-team event, with the ICC
rankings system used to determine the first eight places, the
ICC said today. A qualification competition will decide the
other two.  Also today, the ICC confirmed that an umpire decision
review system, or DRS, with a universal standard should go into
effect in Test matches and one-day Internationals, using infra-
red cameras and audio-tracking devices.  India  had opposed DRS because it doesn’t regard ball-
tracking technology as accurate enough. It has now agreed to the
common standard as the ball-tracking element won’t be included.
Instead its use will need to be approved by both teams taking
part.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 