-- 
Microsoft to Release Web-Based Office Programs in Bid to Fight Off Google

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-06-28T20:10:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/microsoft-to-release-web-based-office-as-it-fights-off-google.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is updating its
online corporate software offerings to include a full Internet-
based version of Office 2010 for the first time, an effort to
stave off competition from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  for business accounts.  The Office 365 suite of programs is available today in 40
markets, Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  said at an event
in New York. Software will cost small businesses $6 a user each
month for a package with programs like Office Web Apps and
Exchange e-mail software, Microsoft said. For an additional $12
a month, companies can add a full version of Office, including
Word and Excel programs.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , is trying to keep
Google’s office-productivity software, called Apps for Business,
from making further inroads with corporate and government
clients. The two companies are fighting for customers who want
more applications hosted in the so-called cloud -- on a network
rather than a hard drive. The full online version of Office
follows last year’s release of the more basic Office Web Apps.  “Financially, it will be a while before Office in the
cloud becomes meaningful, but it provides another delivery
mechanism for some of Microsoft’s mainstream products and brings
them on par with Google Apps,” said Sid Parakh, an analyst at
McAdams Wright Ragen in Seattle, who recommends buying Microsoft
shares.  Microsoft shares rose 60 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $25.80
at 4 p.m.  New York  time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock
had dropped 9.7 percent this year before today.  Month-by-Month  This update represents the first time Microsoft will sell a
full version of Office through an Internet-based cloud service,
and also marks the first time companies can license the programs
on a per-user, per-month basis, said Wes Miller, an analyst at
Directions on Microsoft in Kirkland, Washington.  The software allows Microsoft to compete for a larger
percentage of companies’ technology spending, said Microsoft
Office Division President Kurt DelBene at an event at the
company’s headquarters in Redmond, Washington.  Customers can save money with the product, which eliminates
the need to maintain server computers and software. Microsoft
estimates the average 1,000-person company will save about
$350,000 a year over a four-year period, DelBene said.  Microsoft’s traditional packaged software business can
compete for about 15 percent of corporate spending, whereas the
addition of cloud services allows Microsoft to compete for five
times that, he said. It also enables Microsoft to sell more to
small and mediums-sized businesses, he said.  Vodafone, Intuit  Service providers including  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , Telstra
Corp., NTT Communications Corp., Telefonica SA and Intuit Inc.
will sell Office 365 to their customers this year, Microsoft
said in a statement.  For larger businesses, prices start at $2 for basic e-mail,
and companies can get a full copy of Office and other programs
like social networking and videoconferencing for $24 a month.
The software services are an update to an earlier product called
Business Productivity Online Suite, or BPOS.  Microsoft released Office 2010 a year ago, and said earlier
this month that it’s being adopted by business customers five
times faster than the previous version. Sales in the business
division, which is mainly revenue from Office, rose to $5.27
billion last quarter, exceeding the $4.9 billion average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The unit is
Microsoft’s biggest in terms of revenue.  Office Web Apps  Microsoft also offers a consumer version of Office Web Apps,
which are scaled-down versions of the Office applications. The
company said earlier this month that it has almost 50 million
users for those programs.  Google counts 3 million corporations and other
organizations as customers of its Apps business software,
including McClatchy Co., the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration  and the states of Wyoming and  Wisconsin , who
signed on with Google in the past month, according to spokesman
Andrew Kovacs. Google charges companies $50 a user each year,
and offers a free version for consumers.  Google Apps has 30 million active users overall, and
doesn’t break out how many of those are paying customers.  Microsoft first started running corporate applications for
a customer in the cloud in 2005 with an agreement with Energizer
Holdings Inc., the battery-maker based in  St. Louis .  “It’s six years since we first started down this road, yet
we’re more optimistic about what can be done and the scenarios
that can be affected,” Ballmer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in  Seattle  at   dbass2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 