-- 
Tiger Woods Says He Won’t Rush Return, Too Early to Predict Britsh Entry

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-06-28T19:26:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/tiger-woods-says-he-won-t-rush-return-too-early-to-predict-britsh-entry.html
Tiger Woods said he doesn’t know if
he’ll be able to play in next month’s British Open and has no
timetable for a return to tournament golf.  Woods has spent the past six weeks recovering from left
knee and Achilles’ tendon injuries sustained at the  Masters
Tournament  in April and aggravated at the  Players Championship 
in May. He missed the U.S. Open two weeks ago and is sitting out
this week’s AT&T National outside Philadelphia.  “Usually I set a timetable when I want to come back and
play; this time I’m going to come back when I’m 100 percent,”
Woods, 35, said during at a news conference in Newtown Square,
 Pennsylvania , site of the AT&T National. “I don’t know when
that’s going to be. That’s the frustrating thing.”  The British Open, the third major championship of the
season, is scheduled for July 14-17 at Royal St. George’s Golf
Club in Sandwich on the English coast, 77 miles (124 kilometers)
southeast of  London . Woods is a three-time winner, most recently
in 2006.  While Woods isn’t playing at Aronimink Golf Club this week,
he’s attending the U.S. PGA Tour event, which benefits his
foundation.  Woods last played in a tournament on May 12, when he pulled
out of the Players Championship after nine holes.  “Probably in retrospect it was a borderline call whether I
should have played the Players,” said Woods, whose last full
tournament round was at the Masters. “I wasn’t quite 100
percent and unfortunately I hurt myself there. This time around,
it’s different.”  Open Hopes  A day after the Players Championship, Woods said he
expected to be healthy enough to play in the  U.S. Open . Nine
days before that tournament in Bethesda,  Maryland , Woods said
he’d miss the event for the first time since 1994 and continue
rehabilitation, choosing “short-term frustration for long-term
gain.”  Woods today maintained that he won’t rush to return to
competition. While he’s no longer wearing a walking boot or
using crutches, Woods said he’s only putting now and hasn’t
started hitting balls.  “They’re both healing, which is good,” Woods said of his
knee and Achilles tendon. “But I still need to get both
strengthened and explosive again. I’ve been through this process
before, so I’m using that experience. The only difference is
there’s no timetable. It’s open-ended.”  Woods, second to  Jack Nicklaus  with 14 major titles, hasn’t
won a tournament since November 2009 and has fallen to 17th in
the  Official World Ranking . He held the No. 1 spot in the
rankings for a record 281 weeks.  McIlroy ‘Cool’  Woods said it was “cool to see” 22-year-old Rory McIlroy
win the U.S. Open by eight strokes and become the youngest major
champion since Woods in 1997. McIlroy’s margin of victory at
Congressional Country Club was the biggest at the U.S. Open
since Woods’s 15-shot romp in 2000.  “That was seriously good playing,” Woods said. “It was
cool to see that he had softer conditions and he was able to go
low and was able to continue pushing it. That’s what’s fun --
when you have a lead and keep building it.”  McIlroy, from  Northern Ireland , is favored by Las Vegas
oddsmakers to win the British Open and told  Sky Sports  yesterday
that “it’s a good time for me to win things” while Woods is
seeking to recover his health and form.  Woods said today that McIlroy has a better swing than he
did at the same age. Even so, Woods said he doesn’t have added
incentive to return to competition because of the emergence of
young players such as McIlroy.  “I feel like my best years are still ahead of me,” said
Woods. “My motivation is to get back to where I can play where
I know I can play and I’m feeling good again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  Newtown Square , Pennsylvania, at 
8797 or  matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  