-- 
Tiger Moms Hire Tutors as Korea Scraps Classes

-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n   a n d   R o s e   K i m
-- 
2011-06-29T06:41:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/tiger-moms-hire-private-tutors-in-south-korea-as-saturday-classes-scrapped.html
Chung Eunjung, a 46-year-old mother
from Seoul, says  South Korea ’s plan to give children more play
time by ending Saturday classes means only one thing: more
private tutoring.  President  Lee Myung Bak ’s government said on June 14 it
would recommend schools adopt a shorter week starting in 2012,
ending Saturday classes that have been a feature of the modern
education system since the end of the  Korean War  in 1953. Most
schools now hold classes on two Saturdays a month.  “I’m not the only parent to feel this way,” said Chung,
who already spends $1,700 a month on additional classes for her
two sons. “It would be a brave mother who let them play.”  The reaction of mothers like Chung helps explain why
students in  Asia  are outperforming the rest of the world.
Nations in the region dominate the top five slots in the
Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development’s
 assessment  of reading, math and science skills. U.S. students
are ranked 30th in math, 23rd in science and 17th in reading.  President  Barack Obama  has cited South Koreans’ dedication
to schooling as an example of the need for American kids to
study harder to compete. Three out of four South Korean parents
use cram schools, tutors or online learning to get their kids
into college. More than half of the students in Asia’s fourth-
largest economy take private math and English lessons, according
to the  government .  Education Stocks  Rather than creating more family time, the plan to shut
schools at the weekend would be a boon for academies like
MegaStudy Co., or language-course operator JLS Co., said Kim Mi
Song, an analyst at Hyundai Securities Co. in Seoul.  “This will be good news for education stocks,” said Kim.
“It is clear that the amount of time students spend in private
courses will increase.”  Even with the change, South Korean children will spend more
time in school than their U.S. counterparts. In his State of the
Union address in January, Obama said South  Korea  treated its
teachers as “nation builders.” In 2009, he said: “Our
children spend over a month less in school than children in
South Korea every year. That’s no way to prepare them for a 21st
century economy.”  In the latest round of the OECD’s Program for International
Student Assessments in 2009, South Korea placed second in
reading, fourth in math and sixth in science. Finland was the
only country outside Asia to make it into the OECD’s top five in
any of the three categories.  ‘Send My Son’  “If private institutions expand Saturday classes, I’ll
definitely send my son,” said Kim Hyeran, who pays $2,800 per
month for out-of-school classes for her 13-year-old, including
as much as 20 hours of math. The Kim family, like the Chungs,
live in  Seoul ’s Gangnam district, renowned in Korea for its
concentration of specialized schools and private academies.  South Korean parents spend about $220 per child every month
on out-of-school classes, tutoring and online learning,
according to government statistics.  Traditional Confucian reverence for learning matters less
to parents these days than the fear that their children will be
left behind, according to Han Zun Shang, a professor of
education at  Yonsei  University in Seoul. Annual per capita
income has doubled in the past decade to $20,759 and wage
inequality is increasing, said Han.  Japan, which cut the school week to five days in 2002, is
reversing course after its students began sliding down the
 OECD’s rankings .  Reversing Course  Between 2000 and 2006, Japanese high school students
slumped from first to 10th in math, second to sixth in science
and from eighth to 15th in reading comprehension.  Japan  added 278 hours to the elementary school year in 2009
and 105 hours to junior high school. The Tokyo Metropolitan
Government in January last year told schools they could resume
Saturday classes twice a month, according to its website.  The Seoul Metropolitan Office of Education, which governs
state education in the capital, said it plans to add two hours
to weekday classes and will reduce some vacation days to offset
ending school on Saturdays.  Hyundai Securities’ Kim is one of 10 analysts with “buy”
recommendations on MegaStudy, which prepares kids for college
exams. Eleven others rate the stock a “hold,” according to
Bloomberg data.  Kim said the stock should rebound from a 13 percent drop in
the past 12 months, after the government cracked down on cram
schools holding classes past 10 p.m. and changed the way
college-entrance-exam questions were chosen.  MegaStudy, Thinkbig  JLS, which offers online courses as well as regular
language classes, has declined 7.8 percent over the past year.  Officials at MegaStudy and JLS declined to say if they
would begin offering more classes.  Daekyo Co. and Woongjin Thinkbig Co., providers of home-
study materials for elementary school students, may also benefit
from the end to Saturday classes, said Joseph Shon, an analyst
at Shinyoung Securities Co. in Seoul.  Weekly workbooks produced by Daekyo and Woongjin provide a
cheaper alternative to private tutors and academies. The
companies are setting up study centers where parents can leave
children to work by themselves under limited supervision.  Daekyo has gained 9.4 percent on the Korea Exchange this
month while Woongjin has advanced 0.6 percent. The benchmark
Kospi index has dropped 2.2 percent over the same period.  “I put great stock in my son’s education,” said Kim, the
mother of the 13-year-old boy. “I will make sure he gets
whatever he needs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net ;
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Miller at 
 Bmiller30@bloomberg.net  