-- 
India’s Mukherjee Maintains Growth Forecast for This Year

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-06-28T21:54:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/india-may-reach-growth-goal-for-year-even-after-tightening-mukherjee-says.html
India  may achieve its growth target
for this year even after the longest string of monetary
tightening in a decade, Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said.  Mukherjee said he is “still holding” the projection he
made in the budget that India will achieve growth of about 8.5
percent in the current year. If the situation deteriorates,
there “may be a downside slide, but I’m not expecting that,”
he said in a Bloomberg News interview today in Washington.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao raised the
benchmark repurchase rate at his last review on June 16, the
10th increase since the start of 2010, saying “domestic-
inflation risks remain high” and slowing economic growth may be
unavoidable.  The central bank’s string of interest rate increases to
control the demand-side response to inflation is “timely and
appropriate, and is not going to affect growth as such,”
Mukherjee said. The current fiscal year will end in March 2012.  Exports are rising even with the slowdown in the global
economy, including in the U.S., with which India wants to expand
trade, he said.  “Exports are picking up, not merely in respect to the U.S.
but also other countries that we have as export destinations,”
Mukherjee said. “Of course, unless growth is robust, there will
not be demand,” he said, adding he is “not deeply concerned.”  He is visiting  Washington  to participate in the second
U.S.-India Economic and Financial Partnership meetings.  At an event in Washington yesterday, Mukherjee said fast
inflation is “an important constraint” preventing India from
achieving higher growth. Even so, the country “can live with”
inflation of between 6 percent and 6.5 percent, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  