-- 
India’s Fast Inflation Prevents Higher Growth, Mukherjee Says

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-06-28T00:31:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/india-s-fast-inflation-prevents-higher-growth-mukherjee-says.html
Indian Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said fast inflation is preventing the country from
achieving higher growth, as U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  urged the world’s second-most populous nation to take
further steps to open up financial services.  “Inflation is an important constraint that we have to
tackle,” Mukherjee said in Washington today. “We can live
with” inflation of between 6 percent and 6.5 percent, though a
5 percent to 5.5 percent rate would be “ideal.” The wholesale-
 price index ,  India ’s main inflation gauge, rose 9.06 percent in
May from a year earlier, a government report showed June 14.  India is returning to a higher growth path, though price
pressures are a “serious” limit on those efforts, Mukherjee
told the forum organized by the Confederation of Indian Industry
and the  Brookings Institution .  The  Reserve Bank  of India has boosted borrowing costs 10
times since the start of 2010, the most aggressive tightening by
a Group of 20 member. The nation’s decision last week to
increase diesel prices for the first time in a year will stoke
inflation and step up pressure on the central bank to extend its
longest streak of rate increases in a decade, economists at
Nomura Holdings Inc. and Standard Chartered Plc said.  At the same event today, Geithner called for India to take
more steps in opening up financial services.  “From our perspective, the most important things we’d like
to see are progress on financial reforms that provide a deeper,
more liquid market for corporate debt, for infrastructure
financing, that allow a little bit more access to American
companies and their technology,” Geithner said in the panel
discussion.  He and Mukherjee will hold meetings this week as part of
the second U.S.-India Economic and Financial Partnership summit.
There isn’t any “big hurdle” in ties between the two countries
and India is committed to ongoing reforms, Mukherjee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net 
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  