-- 
Investors May Lose as Congress Saves Money on Adviser Oversight

-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-06-28T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/investors-may-lose-as-congress-saves-money-on-adviser-oversight.html
Congress may hand oversight of
almost 12,000 investment advisers to Wall Street’s self-funded
regulator as a cost-saving measure. The price could be paid by
investors.  The  Financial Industry Regulatory Authority , deputized by
the government to oversee brokers, is lobbying to replace the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as a regulator of
registered investment advisers who manage about $40 trillion.
Congress is considering the move as a cheaper alternative to
increasing resources for the SEC, since Finra’s $877 million
 budget  is paid by the brokers it regulates.  “It’s a very bad idea to expand the notion of self-
regulation,” said Denise Voigt Crawford, former commissioner of
the Texas State Securities Board. “They’re supposed to oversee
the activity of the industry, but they are industry.”  Finra, established in 2007 by the merger of the National
Association of Securities Dealers and most of the  New York  Stock
Exchange’s regulatory unit, has done a poor job of protecting
investors, said Crawford, who retired in February after 17 years
as a securities commissioner. Fines imposed are usually a
fraction of the damages suffered, and Finra fails to share
information regularly with state regulators, she said.  The regulator fined members almost  $43 million  last year,
while the SEC, working with a similar budget, issued more than
 $1 billion  in penalties.  The Finra arbitration process is flawed, said Lynn E.
Turner, who served as the SEC’s chief accountant from 1998 to
2001. Investors who won Finra arbitration awards last year got
back less than half of what they sought, data from Securities
Arbitration Commentator Inc. show.  Strained Resources  Compensation exceeding $11 million in 2009 for the top 10
Finra executives makes them reluctant to “make waves” in the
industry that provides the funding, Turner said. Finra’s
chairman and chief executive officer, Richard Ketchum, said that
level of pay keeps them from losing their best staff.  In a  January report  required by the Dodd-Frank financial-
overhaul bill, the SEC gave Congress the option of naming an
outside regulator to strengthen oversight of investment advisers
as the agency faces strained resources. Only about 9 percent of
advisers registered with the SEC were examined in 2010 because
of decreased numbers of agency examiners, the report said.  Advisers are currently required to register with the SEC if
they are paid to give retail investment advice about securities
and have more than  $25 million  in assets under management. The
limit is scheduled to switch to $100 million next year.  ‘Natural Organization’  Investment advisers must uphold a fiduciary duty to put
their clients’ best interests first, generally charge fees and
may provide services ranging from saving for retirement to tax
planning. Brokers usually are held to a suitability standard
that only requires that advice meets their clients’ needs when a
product is sold. They generally charge commissions. The number
of registered investment advisers increased by almost 40 percent
to 11,888 advisers as of Sept. 30 since October 2004, the SEC
report said.  “The likelihood of an SEC government solution working and
working consistently in a difficult budget environment I think
is low,” Ketchum, 60, said in an interview last month on the
48th floor of the agency’s New York office. The current
environment “is simply not an appropriate level of investor
protection.”  Finra is a “natural organization to be part of the
solution” because of its infrastructure and technological
capabilities and the fact that most advisers are affiliated with
broker-dealers already, Ketchum said.  Upping Enforcement  The regulator would need as many as 200 more people to do
the job and would create a new board to represent members of the
adviser community, he said. Michael Oxley, the former
congressman who co-sponsored the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  of 2002,
registered earlier this year as a lobbyist for Finra to advance
its case. The regulator spent  $300,000  in the first quarter
lobbying Congress on issues including adviser oversight.  Finra has stepped up its enforcement efforts this year.
From January through May, fines levied by Finra increased by 118
percent to $28.1 million compared with a year earlier. During
the first five months of 2009, in the wake of the financial
crisis, fines were $30.5 million. The number of  disciplinary
actions  taken this year through May was 463, the most in at
least five years.  Morgan Keegan, a division of Birmingham, Alabama-based
 Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , agreed to pay about $200 million to
settle investigations into subprime mortgage-backed securities
by the SEC, Finra and state regulators, the company said last
week. Morgan Keegan’s actions may have resulted in $1.5 billion
of losses, Joseph Borg, director of the Alabama Securities
Commission, said during a call with reporters.  The
investigation was a “collaborative effort,” said  Nancy Condon ,
a Finra spokeswoman.  Structured Products  The regulator has been “digging deeper” into “areas of
concern” such as structured products and private placements,
Ketchum said last month at Finra’s annual conference in
 Washington . Finra has fined brokerage firms for misleading
investors about the safety of “principal-protected” notes and
ignoring signs of fraud when selling high-yield securities
issued by Provident Royalties LLC and Medical Capital Holdings
Inc.  Investors lost about $2.5 billion on those three products
after  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  failed and the SEC shut down
Provident and Medical Capital. Finra has fined the brokers who
sold those securities a total of about $3.25 million, according
to the regulator’s data.  $6 Million Restitution  Customers filed  3,208 complaints  last year either online or
through the mail with Finra. Every complaint was reviewed,
responded to and investigated when warranted, Condon said.  The total amount of fines brought by Finra was about $42.5
million in 2010, compared with about $1.03 billion by the SEC
last fiscal year. The SEC figure includes a  $535 million penalty 
for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to settle claims that it misled
investors in collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime
mortgages. The SEC doesn’t break out separate numbers for fines
of brokers, said  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC. Finra may
refer cases to the SEC, which has civil law enforcement powers.  Finra also ordered  $6 million  in restitution to harmed
investors last year. That compares with about $1.82 billion in
illegal profits that the SEC has ordered repaid and returned to
investors when possible. This year through May, Finra
restitution was $9.8 million. The self-regulator has almost as
much funding as the SEC, which had a budget of  $960 million  in
2009.  ‘Nasty Blow’  “When you look at the types of misconduct compared to the
fines, you have to wonder if it will really deter the misconduct
they’re tasked with cracking down on,” said Michael Smallberg,
an investigator at the Washington-based nonprofit  Project on
Government Oversight . “Would Finra ever take serious action
against who it’s relying on for its funding?”  Richard and Anne Laese, retirees in Casselberry,  Florida ,
sunk $250,000 into Provident oil and gas partnerships on the
advice of John Michael Leonard, a broker who worked for
brokerage firm Workman Securities Corp. Most of the high-yield
investments turned out to be worthless when the SEC sued
Provident for fraud in July 2009. Provident is in receivership
and the SEC settled its case against the firm in March.  “We’re not rolling in dough,” said Richard Laese, a 72-
year-old former police officer. “It was a pretty nasty blow.”
The Laeses settled with Workman last year for $81,250.  Credit for Claims  Workman didn’t conduct adequate  due diligence  of the
Provident and Medical Capital securities and kept selling the
Medical Capital notes even after it found out that Medical
Capital was missing interest payments, Finra said in its
settlement with the firm. The firm sold $9.3 million of certain
Provident and Medical Capital notes, Finra said.  Finra ordered Workman, based in  Eden Prairie , Minnesota, to
repay  $700,000  to investors and allowed Workman to count the
$642,802 it had already paid to settle claims toward its
sanction.  “We were settling cases for business reasons,” said
Benjamin Skjold, a lawyer in  Minneapolis  who represents Workman.
“I presume they looked at our overall business methodology and
how we were resolving claims and said, ‘We would rather
encourage this kind of behavior.’”  The decision to give Workman credit for settlements was
determined in part by the firm’s resources, said Steve Luparello, Finra’s vice chairman who oversees regulatory
operations. The regulator has  sanction guidelines  that help
determine what appropriate fines are in general, Luparello said.  Arbitration Awards  Finra hasn’t sanctioned Leonard, whose Florida regulatory
record shows more than 21 complaints from his clients at
Workman, claiming more than $8 million in losses. Leonard, who
couldn’t be located, denied wrongdoing in the Florida regulatory
record. Finra is still investigating individuals associated with
Workman, Condon said.  Clients must generally resolve disputes with brokers
through arbitration rather than through lawsuits because of
clauses in their contracts. In 2010, the median amount won by
investors through Finra arbitration was $129,800, or 42 percent
of the median amount of $310,000 in compensatory damages sought
by investors who won, according to data compiled by  Securities
Arbitration Commentator Inc. , a Maplewood, New Jersey-based
legal publishing and research firm.  The firm excluded cases where the customer asked for less
than $25,000 as well as cases that didn’t specify the amount of
compensatory damages requested. Of the 882  arbitration cases 
that were decided in 2010, 47 percent resulted in customers
being awarded damages, based on Finra data.  All-Public Panels  Arbitration is “far from perfect,” but it’s cheaper and
faster than the public courts, said Finra’s Ketchum. Starting in
February, investors were given the option to pick an all-public
panel of three arbitrators to decide the case instead of a panel
composed of two public arbitrators and one from the industry.
Since February, 77 percent of claims filed have selected the
all-public panel, Condon said. It can take up to two years from
when investors file their arbitration claims until the case is
closed, said Jeffrey Erez, a securities attorney in  Fort
Lauderdale , Florida.  It’s rare that arbitration claims lead to disciplinary
actions such as fines or suspensions, according to Stuart
Meissner, a securities attorney in New York and former state
assistant attorney general.  “There’s a breakdown between arbitration claims and
enforcement actions,” Meissner said. “It’s only the most
egregious cases.”  Filing Claims  Less than 1 percent of arbitration cases on average have
resulted in disciplinary actions against brokers or brokerage
firms, based on interviews with five securities attorneys around
the country including  Steve Miller , an attorney in Denver who
also serves as a Finra arbitrator.  Every arbitration claim is reviewed and may be a source of
future cases, Finra’s Luparello said. A single enforcement
action may result from multiple arbitration claims.  Investors aren’t contacted by Finra as often as they should
be after  filing claims , which could help its enforcement arm
take faster disciplinary action since they would hear from
customers directly, said Brian Levin, who focuses on securities
arbitration at Miami-based Dimond Kaplan & Rothstein.  One of his clients, Coralie Marlowe, a 74-year-old retiree,
filed a claim with Finra in 2009 after she and her husband lost
their $50,000 investment in a structured product recommended by
a  UBS AG (UBSN)  broker. The securities became almost worthless when
Lehman failed in September 2008. Marlowe said she was misled by
the investment’s name: “100 Percent Principal-Protection
Notes.”  ‘Ill-Prepared’  “It’s a lot of money for us. We were ill-prepared for
retirement,” said Marlowe, who lives in Calabasas,  California .
Finra’s investigators never called her after she filed the
claim, she said. Marlowe reached a confidential settlement with
UBS in March.  Finra contacted about 100 investors who bought the Lehman
notes out of 170 who either filed complaints or arbitration
claims, said Condon, the regulator’s spokeswoman.  UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, sold $1 billion of the
notes to U.S. investors like Marlowe. Finra took action against
the Zurich-based bank saying it “effectively misled” some
investors when selling the products about two and a half years
after Lehman’s failure. UBS agreed to pay $8.25 million to some
investors and a  $2.5 million fine . The bank was represented by
Barry Goldsmith, an attorney at law firm Gibson Dunn & Crutcher
LLP in New York who used to be executive vice president for
enforcement at Finra’s predecessor, NASD. He declined to
comment.  No Waves  The $2.5 million fine of UBS is “the biggest crime of the
century since Madoff,” said Seth Lipner, a  Garden City , New
York-based attorney, who has represented more than 50 investors
in Lehman notes. “They pay more for paperclips.” UBS used
about $9 million worth of paper last year, according to
calculations based on numbers in its annual report.  Allison Chin-Leong, a UBS spokeswoman in New York, said the
“significant majority” of its sales were conducted properly
and losses resulted from Lehman’s “unprecedented and
unexpected” failure.  High compensation packages for top executives at Finra may
hinder forceful action that protects investors, according to
Turner, the former chief accountant for the SEC.  “The economic incentives are so strong and these
executives don’t want to make waves and upset the industry,”
Turner said.  $8.99 Million  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro , who was head of Finra and had
worked at its predecessor NASD since 1996, received $8.99
million as a “final distribution,” including $7.6 million in
vested retirement benefits, when she left for the SEC, according
to a  Finra report . She makes $163,500 at the SEC. Schapiro
recused herself from voting on the report about regulation of
investment advisers.  Finra paid its top 10 executives a combined $11.6 million
in 2009, based on data in an annual report. Ketchum received
 $2.24 million  in salary, incentive pay and retirement benefits
in 2009, the annual report said.  Compensation doesn’t affect Finra’s independence and helps
prevent turnover, said Ketchum. “It hopefully impacts the
willingness of people to make a career out of regulation. I’m
not sure that it is a great strategy if you’re looking for
effective oversight to underpay regulators,” he said.  “I can promise you that nobody in the industry thinks that
Finra is their friend or Finra is on their side,” said Mark
Astarita, who has been representing brokers and firms in Finra
investigations since 1984. “It’s almost comical that that’s the
perception because that is completely untrue.”  Missing Madoff  The regulator, along with the SEC, missed schemes operated
by Bernard L. Madoff and R. Allen Stanford, whose brokerage
firms were registered with Finra. Madoff’s brother Peter,
deceased son Mark and niece Shana served on NASD or Finra
committees. Madoff didn’t receive lenient treatment because of
these ties, Finra said in a  2009 report .  Stanford hired the former head of Finra’s Dallas office as
managing director of  compliance  in 2006. The group’s probe of
Stanford resulted in a $10,000 fine for advertising violations
in November 2007, about a year before the SEC shut down the
alleged $7 billion fraud.  “Any regulatory organization can be noted as missing
things,” Ketchum said. “The question is not whether we’re
going to miss things, the question is what we effectively find
and how we can continue to make steps to try to make us
continuously better.”  Lack of Jurisdiction  One of the reasons Finra may have missed the Madoff Ponzi
scheme was because of a lack of jurisdiction over the investment
advisory side of dually registered firms, the 2009 report said.
“We at Finra are limited in our ability to look fully at what
is an equally integrated business,” Ketchum said in prepared
remarks for a March 22  speech .  Although Finra examines more than half of its broker-dealer
firm members, it doesn’t mean that the quality of those
examinations is good, said Smallberg of the Project on
Government Oversight. There also aren’t enough mechanisms in
place to review their regulatory operations, he said.  “Giving more authority to Finra should come with
additional transparency and accountability,” Smallberg said.
“I worry sometimes about the façade of a really robust
examination or investigation process providing a false sense of
confidence for investors.”  Outraged Regulators  State securities regulators say the issue for them with
Finra is a lack of cooperation on sharing examination
information. About two years ago, Finra stopped routinely
sending examination reports on brokers to state securities
regulators, said Bob Webster, a spokesman for the  North American
Securities Administrators Association .  “State securities regulators were outraged,” said
Crawford, a former NASAA president. Regulators relied on the
reports to help spot potential fraud committed by brokers in
their own states, she said.  Finra told the regulators it couldn’t routinely share
investigative information with them because active collaboration
could make Finra a “government actor,” Webster said. That
would mean Finra would have to give certain rights to brokers
during investigations that it doesn’t currently.  Finra received more than 100 access requests from state
regulators in the past year and fulfilled all of them, Finra’s
Luparello said. “I know of no example where we didn’t provide
information when we would have before,” he said.  State regulators won’t know to request examination results
if they don’t know that there’s something they should be on the
lookout for, said Borg of the Alabama Securities Commission.
“Just like the Morgan Keegan case, I’m hoping that all of our
cases working with Finra in the future will work out just as
cooperatively,” Borg said.  SEC Oversight  Self-regulatory organizations work if there’s aggressive
SEC oversight, and the SEC has an “effective program” in place
for overseeing Finra, Ketchum said.  The  Boston Consulting Group  found in a  March report  ordered
by the Dodd-Frank Act that self-regulatory organizations,
including Finra, don’t have to regularly disclose information to
the SEC regarding their regulatory operations. The SEC also
doesn’t have a consistent set of metrics or standards to assess
Finra, the report said. Nester, the SEC spokesman, declined to
comment on the agency’s oversight of Finra or Finra’s regulation
of brokers.  As more investors turn to investment advisers for financial
help, who regulates them will matter even more, said Lipner, the
attorney who’s also a law professor at  Baruch College  in New
York. “If we want to seriously regulate investment advisers, we
would not give it to Finra because it hasn’t proved it’s
competent to protect the public interest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net 
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 