-- 
IPO Filings Accelerate to Highest Since 2007 Just as Stock Markets Retreat

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-06-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/ipo-filings-accelerate-to-highest-since-2007-just-as-stock-markets-retreat.html
Global filings for initial public
offerings are accelerating to the fastest pace since 2007 just
as  Greece ’s debt crisis and China’s rising inflation drag down
global stock markets.  At least 720 companies including Groupon Inc. and Beijing
Jingneng Clean Energy Co. have announced plans this quarter to
seek $67 billion in IPOs, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the largest number of deals in a quarter since
794 IPOs were announced during the final three months of 2007,
the data show.  While the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index’s rally to an almost three-year
high in May spurred companies to register for initial share
sales, the benchmark has since retreated 7.8 percent. More
European deals have been pulled this year than since at least
2006 amid concern that Greece will default. All but five of the
biggest IPOs in Hong Kong have declined since their debut, with
Chinese inflation rising to its highest since 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Despite significant global activity, the  market sentiment 
for deals now is tougher than what we’ve seen in a while,” said
Frank Maturo, co-head of Americas cash equity capital markets at
Bank of America Corp. in  New York . “We are not seeing the IPO
performance that the buy side would like and that is making the
IPO market more challenging.”  In the U.S. this year, stocks have risen less than 3
percent on average following an IPO, tempered by growing signs
the recovery from the worst recession since the Great Depression
is deteriorating. A jump in U.S.-listed Internet stocks wasn’t
enough to buoy the market, even after professional-networking
website LinkedIn Corp. more than doubled in its first trading
day and Yandex NV, Russia’s most popular search engine, surged
55 percent.  Europe  Deals  In western Europe, where new filings are at their highest
since 2008, 22 deals have been withdrawn or postponed this year,
the most since at least 2006, Bloomberg data show. Of the 69
IPOs that were completed in Europe this year, 36 trade below
their initial prices.  The pulled sales would have raised as much as $9.4 billion,
according to Bloomberg data. Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA, Europe’s
biggest supplier of building materials, this month delayed an
IPO of its Paris-based packaging unit, Verallia, which was
seeking as much as $1.4 billion.  Glencore International Plc has lost about 10 percent since
raising $10 billion in its IPO in  London  and  Hong Kong  in May,
the biggest initial share sale in the world this year.  Greece Budget  The drop reflects stock market declines in both regions.
The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell for an eighth straight
week as of June 24, the longest losing streak since 1998, as
Greece pushes ahead with budget cuts to avoid a debt default
that would roil the region. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index declined
for 5 straight weeks through June 17, the worst slump in 2 1/2
years amid the Chinese government’s efforts to tame the surge in
consumer prices that pushed mainland inflation to 5.5 percent,
the highest level since 2008.  “Market conditions for IPOs have been challenging” this
year, said Viswas Raghavan, London-based head of international
capital markets at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “Investors have found
it difficult to make money from IPOs, and the market has
significantly underperformed.”  In  Asia , all but five of the 17 companies that started
trading this year after raising more than $100 million in a Hong
Kong IPO have declined from their offer price, Bloomberg data
show. IPOs in mainland  China  this year have lost an average of
about 5 percent in trading.  Luxury-fashion company Prada SpA, one of the most recent
foreign companies to list in Hong Kong, has gained after pricing
at the bottom of a narrowed range. Beijing Jingneng may raise as
much as HK$4.9 billion ($629 million) in an IPO, according to a
term sheet this month.  China Inflation  In the U.S., there was a backlog of 109 IPOs as of June 21,
or companies that have made new or amended filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within the last six months,
according to  Ipreo Holdings LLC , the New York-based provider of
capital markets data and analysis. That’s the most since 2006.  Groupon, the biggest provider of online daily-deal coupons,
filed June 2 to raise $750 million in an IPO. Zynga Inc., the
biggest maker of games on Facebook Inc.’s website, may file for
an IPO by the end of the month, according to a person familiar
with the plans.  LinkedIn and Yandex have trimmed gains following their
first-day surges. LinkedIn is up 70 percent through yesterday
and Yandex is up 30 percent. Pandora Media Inc., the online-
radio company, fell 24 percent in its second day of trading
after an 8.9 percent climb. It has risen 3.3 percent to date.  ‘More Cautious’  “The overall market’s gotten more cautious,” said Wayne Wilbanks, chief investment officer at Wilbanks, Smith & Thomas
in Norfolk,  Virginia , which manages about $1.8 billion.
LinkedIn’s recent retreat shows investors are becoming more
disciplined about what they’ll pay for Internet stocks, he said.  U.S. IPOs are being shelved at a faster pace this quarter,
the data show. More than half of this year’s 43 withdrawals or
postponements have occurred since the beginning of April.  Federal Reserve officials have lowered their growth
forecasts for this year and next and raised estimates for the
 unemployment rate .  Consumer spending , which accounts for about
70 percent of the  U.S. economy , unexpectedly stalled in May as
employment prospects faded, prompting Americans to scale back
purchases.  First Filings  Any improvements to the economy may encourage companies to
once again pursue share sales. While some companies make an
initial filing with the intention of completing an IPO quickly,
not all are likely to go public in 2011. A first filing is the
beginning of an IPO process that in the U.S. sometimes takes
more than a year before finally culminating in a share sale.  U.S. stocks rose yesterday, rebounding from three days of
losses and reversing a worldwide slump. China Premier  Wen Jiabao 
said last week efforts to stem inflation have worked, causing
China stocks to rally the most in four months.  Greece’s creditors have made progress toward an agreement
to roll over 70 percent of their holdings into longer-maturity
debt. European Union officials vowed at a summit in Brussels to
prevent a default in Greece as long as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  pushes through a package of budget cuts this week.
Greek lawmakers are due to vote on 78 billion euros ($111
billion) of austerity measures this week.  “If the equity markets find  price levels  they can build
from, I think interest in IPOs has a chance to be rekindled
relatively quickly,” said Chris Whitman, London-based global
co-head of  equity capital markets  at Deutsche Bank AG. “Right
now, it’s clearly not the type of market that’s strongly IPO-
friendly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Jennifer
Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 