-- 
Israeli Bonds Signal Fischer May Keep Rates on Hold With Inflation Curbed

-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-06-28T21:11:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/israeli-bonds-signal-fischer-may-keep-rates-on-hold-with-inflation-curbed.html
The smallest difference in three
months between yields on Israel’s inflation-linked and fixed-
rate bonds is signaling the central bank may keep  interest rates 
on hold without causing consumer price growth to pick up.  The so-called two-year breakeven rate, which reflects
investors’ expectations for annual inflation during the period,
fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, yesterday to
273. The rate touched 271 basis points on June 23, the lowest
level since at least March, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  held the benchmark
lending rate at 3.25 percent on June 27 after 10 increases in
two years to stem inflation. Slower global economic growth,
falling commodities and gains in the shekel, which has climbed
13 percent against the dollar in the past year, will help
contain price growth, the bank said.  “We are approaching the more mature stages of the
tightening cycle,” James Lord, an emerging-markets strategist
at Morgan Stanley in  London , said in an interview. “We expect
that inflation will gradually come lower, and inflation
expectations should too.”  Yields on Israel’s fixed-rate bonds due in March 2013 fell
12 basis points this month to 3.8 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Inflation-linked bonds tumbled, sending
yields on notes maturing in June 2013 up 26 basis points to 1.07
percent.  Target Range  At 273 basis points, the yield gap suggests traders expect
that annual inflation will fall within the central bank’s target
range of between 1 percent and 3 percent. The breakeven rate
reached 352 basis points on May 9, the highest level in two
months, as inflation remained at or above 4 percent every month
since January.  The breakeven rate is 341 basis points in  Chile , whose A+
credit rating at  Standard & Poor’s  is one step above Israel’s.
The measure for the U.S. is 146.  Israel became the first country to raise interest rates
since the end of the global financial crisis, increasing
borrowing costs from a record low of 0.5 percent in August 2009.
The currency has strengthened 10 percent since the end of 2009,
helping curb prices of imports while eroding profit margins for
exporters.  Higher interest rates and the currency appreciation are
slowing the economy’s expansion. Israeli gross domestic product
rose at an annual rate of 4.8 percent in the first quarter,
after growing 7.6 percent in the previous period, the fastest
pace since 2006.  Commodities Fall  Commodity prices, as measured by a UBS Bloomberg index,
have declined 6.2 percent since the end of April, helping
central banks stem inflation. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 22 that the U.S. economic recovery has
been slower than anticipated, while European policy makers are
working on plans to prevent  Greece  from defaulting on its debt.  “The shekel appreciated over recent months and there was a
decline in commodity prices,” the central bank said on June 27.
“The impact on inflation of these items is expected to be felt
in the future. In light of these issues, and the marked increase
of risks in the global economy, it was decided to leave the
interest rate at its current level.”  Israel’s Inflation will slow to 2.9 percent in the next 12
months from 4.1 percent in May, according to the average of
forecasters surveyed by the  Bank of Israel . Forecasters are
predicting on average that the benchmark interest rate will be
4.3 percent in a year.  ‘More Confident’  The Bank of Israel “seems more confident that inflation
will decline to within the 1 to 3 percent target range by the
first quarter of next year,” analysts at BNP Paribas, led by
Paul Mortimer-Lee in London, wrote in a note to clients
yesterday. “While it is likely that the bank will continue with
its tightening cycle, we think that the current global
environment warrants a more gradual approach.”  The yield on the benchmark Mimshal Shiklit bond due in
January 2020 rose two basis points yesterday to 5.13 percent, or
133 basis points higher than yields of bonds maturing in 2013.
The gap between the two has narrowed from 158 basis points in
March.  The longer-maturity bonds will outperform the shorter-term
securities as the central bank keeps inflation under control,
according to Morgan Stanley’s Lord.  “The curve should flatten some more as the Bank of  Israel 
tightens some more,” Lord said. “But this will be increasingly
driven by a rally in the long end.”  Israel’s two-year interest-rate swaps, the cost investors
can pay to lock in borrowing costs for two years, touched 3.85
percent yesterday, the lowest level since March 22, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  