-- 
Business Confidence Fell in June on Concerns Over Italian Growth Outlook

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-06-28T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/italian-business-confidence-fell-in-june-on-concerns-over-growth-outlook.html
Business confidence in  Italy 
declined in June to the lowest in eight months as executives
became concerned about the growth outlook in the euro region’s
third-biggest economy.  The manufacturing-sentiment index declined to 100.5 from a
revised 101.1 in May, national statistics institute Istat said
in  Rome  today. Economists predicted a reading of 101, according
to the median of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Istat
originally reported a reading of 101.3 for May.  Employers’ association  Confindustria  lowered its growth
forecast this month, urging Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s
government to implement reforms and contain spending. The
economy will expand 0.9 percent this year and 1.1 percent next,
less than the 1.1 percent and 1.3 percent estimated in December
2010, Confindustria said. The new forecasts assume “credible
reforms,” including of the tax system, it added.  Italy’s weak competitiveness and slow recovery from its
worst slump since World War II mean the $2.3 trillion economy
will lag behind euro-area growth this year, the  International
Monetary Fund  said on June 17. As exports failed to offset weak
 consumer spending , gross domestic product grew 0.1 percent in
the first quarter, the same as in the previous three months.  Moody’s Investors Service this month and  Standard & Poor’s 
in May put the country’s credit ratings under review for a
possible downgrade, citing growth challenges and saying
government revenue and deficit targets may be not met. Italian
10-year bond yields yesterday reached the most relative to
German bunds since the euro was introduced in 1999 amid concerns
of a contagion from the Greek debt crisis.  Still, industrial production rose for a third month in
April as exports underpinned output, and Confindustria expects a
further increase in May. Italian new-car registrations expanded
3.6 percent last month on a yearly basis, while sales by  Fiat
SpA (F) , Italy’s biggest manufacturer, dropped 0.9 percent, less
than the 15 percent decrease in the previous month.  Consumer confidence  declined in June as households turned
pessimistic about the outlook for employment and economic
growth, Istat said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  