-- 
IV, Philip Morris, BT Group, Evonik: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-06-28T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/iv-philip-morris-bt-group-evonik-intellectual-property.html
Intellectual Ventures Management
LLC, the patent-licensing firm that filed three patent-
infringement suits against technology companies in December, has
succeeded in getting counsel for one of the companies
disqualified from the case.  According to a court order filed June 23, Palo Alto,
California’s  Wilson Sonsini  Goodrich & Rosati PC was
disqualified from representing  Check Point Software Technologies
Ltd. (CHKP)  of  Tel Aviv , Israel. Check Point was accused of infringing
IV patents related to computer security.  In his June 23 order, U.S. District Judge Leonard P. Stark
didn’t disclose the reasons for the disqualification. He did
write a separate opinion released under seal. He said that after
both parties have a chance to review that opinion, they are to
submit a single jointly proposed version of the opinion for him
to review.  After this, he said he will file a version of his opinion
that may be viewed by the public.  Bellevue, Washington-based  Intellectual Ventures ’ argument
on its motion to disqualify Wilson Sonsini is presently also
under seal in the court file.  Stark also denied Check Point’s motion to have the case
transferred to federal court in northern  California . He said in
a June 22 order that Check Point failed to present a compelling
argument for relocating the case.  The case is Intellectual Ventures LLC v. Check Point
Software Technologies Inc., 1:10-cv-01067-LPS, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Europewide Patent Moves Closer After Getting EU States’ Backing  Cheaper patent protection for companies in the European
Union moved one step closer with the approval of draft plans for
a Europewide patent system in 25 of the EU’s 27 member nations.  Ministers from all the EU nations, except Italy and Spain,
agreed on the “shape and form” and the translation system of
Europe’s future unitary patent system during a meeting in
Luxembourg yesterday. The plans still need the backing of EU
lawmakers at the European Parliament. The European Commission,
which put forward two draft proposals for the patent system
earlier this year, said the patent is now “within reach.”  “If we maintain our present momentum and cooperative
spirit, a unitary patent in Europe could be a reality within the
next two years,” EU Internal Markets Commissioner  Michel
Barnier  said in an e-mailed statement.  Spain and Italy earlier this year opted out of the plans
because they objected to the planned language system. The two
countries can choose to join at a later date.  Cameron Says  China  Must Respect  Intellectual Property , Patents  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said China should respect
intellectual property and patents as trade between both
countries increases.  “It’s absolutely essential that intellectual property is
respected and that patents are respected,” Cameron said at a
joint press conference in  London  following talks with Chinese
Premier Wen Jiabao.  Cameron said China and the U.K. will organize a symposium
to explore the protection of intellectual property rights.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Philip Morris  Says Australia Plain-Pack Law Violates Treaty  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) , the world’s largest
publicly traded tobacco company, said an Australian proposal
requiring cigarettes to be sold in plain packages violates a
treaty with  Hong Kong  and may cause billions of dollars in
damages.  The maker of Marlboro and Peter Jackson cigarettes said it
served the government with a notice of claim stating its
intention to pursue its case in international arbitration. Hong
Kong has a 1994 treaty with Australia prohibiting the forced
removal of trademarks, Anne Edwards, a Philip Morris
spokeswoman, said in a phone interview yesterday.  The Australian proposal is the first in the world to ban
all logos and different colorings on cigarette packages.  New
Zealand , Canada and the U.K. had considered the move and didn’t
put it in place because of concerns it would be illegal,  British
American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  said in April. British American Tobacco
said it’s also considering its legal options.  Under the Australian constitution, parliament can’t make
laws under which the government would acquire property without
providing adequate compensation.  “It is property,” said Wayne Condon, a partner at
Griffith Hack who specializes in intellectual property law. He
was referring to the  tobacco companies ’ logos and trademarks
that are used on cigarette packages. “The law defines
trademarks as property.”  Philip Morris’s Asian unit is based in Hong Kong and owns
Philip Morris Ltd., the Australian unit.  Australia has already banned the public display of tobacco
products in most retail outlets. The government plans to outlaw
logos on cigarette packs and force them to be sold in plain dark
olive packaging, carrying health warnings instead of company
logos. Cigarette brand names will appear on the packages in the
same size and style of printing. The legislation, if passed by
parliament, will come into force on Jan. 1.  Imperial Tobacco Australia Ltd. is backing a television
advertising campaign and titled “Stop This Nanny State,”
urging Australians to oppose the plain-packaging law.  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said she won’t be
intimidated by the tobacco companies.  “We don’t believe that taking that action is in breach of
any of our international obligations,” Health Minister Nicola
Roxon told Sky News yesterday.  The notice served by Philip Morris begins a mandatory
period of negotiations to resolve the dispute, the company said.
If an agreement isn’t reached in three months, the tobacco
company plans to take the dispute to arbitration under the
Arbitration Rules of the United Nations Commission on
International Trade Law.  British American Tobacco has won a preliminary ruling in a
separate case in the Australian state of Victoria over the
covering up of labels with health warnings.  British American Tobacco is seeking access to the legal
advice the government received. The tobacco company failed in
forcing the government to release the documents through a
Freedom of Information request.  A federal appeals court has agreed to hear the case on
Aug. 3 in Melbourne.  George Williams, a constitutional law professor at the
University of New South Wales in Sydney said Australia’s top
court has never addressed this particular question.  “The tobacco companies have a hard road ahead,” Williams
said in a phone interview yesterday. “They’re quite likely to
lose.”  Toys ‘R’ Us Prevails in Trademark Dispute With Tobacco Seller  Toys “R” Us Inc., the world’s biggest toy retailer, said
it has won a trademark-infringement suit against a Pennsylvania-
based tobacco retailer.  The Wayne, New Jersey-based toy seller sued Smokes R Us of
PA Corp. for trademark infringement in federal court in
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, in April.  Toys “R” Us said it found most objectionable that Smokes
R Us sells tobacco, given the fact that “children are
particularly susceptible to marketing messages.” It noted that
in 1998, as part of a settlement agreement entered into by U.S.
tobacco companies, “they were obligated not to target youth.”  According to the complaint, Smokes R Us has also reportedly
sold a product known as “herbal incense” or “synthetic
marijuana.” The complaint quotes a story that appeared in the
Republican Herald newspaper Aug. 7, identifying Smokes R Us as a
store that “sells the herbal incense in the open, alongside
tobacco products and pipes.”  One of the documents filed with the complaint was a Feb. 5
news story from the Wayne Independent identifying Smokes R Us as
a source of products labeled as “bath salts” that are smoked
or inhaled by those seeking a high comparable to that offered by
cocaine.  Under the terms of the court order, filed June 20 and to
which the tobacco company has consented, Smokes R Us will quit
using that term and the smokesrus.com domain name. The company
will also abandon a pending trademark application for the
“Smokes R Us” trademark, and will transfer the smokesrus.com
domain name to the toy company.  It will also destroy any promotional material containing
that name, and will change the name of the company.  Financial details of the settlement were undisclosed.  The case is Toys R Us Inc. v. Smokes R Us of PA Corp.,
1:11-cv-00820-JEJ, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  MPAA Asks U.K. Court to Order BT to Block Access to Newzbin2  The  Motion Picture Association of America , the Hollywood
film industry’s Washington-based trade group, is asking the
U.K.’s high court to order  BT Group Plc (BT/A) ’s Internet service unit
to block access to a website they say distributes pirated films,
the U.K’s Guardian newspaper  reported .  The film group wants access blocked to Newzbin2, which they
say is providing links used to movies and music without
authorization, according to the Guardian.  If the court accedes to the industry group’s demand, it
will be the first time access to a website will be blocked under
the authority of the U.K.’s Copyright Design and Patents Act,
the newspaper reported.  Spyro Markensinis, the vice president of legal affairs for
London-based  Momentum Pictures , told the Guardian that Newzbin2
was offering 75 different -- and unauthorized -- versions of
Momentum’s Academy Award-winning film “The King’s Speech.”  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Evonik Embraces Low-Tech Barrier to Mobile Phone Espionage  Evonik Industries AG has come up with a low-tech solution
to potential industrial espionage, Agence France-Presse
 reported .  The Essen, Germany-based chemical company requires its
managers to keep their mobile phones in metal cookie tins during
meetings, according to AFP.  Alexandra Boy, an Evonik spokeswoman, said the company’s
been told that people are able to eavesdrop even on mobile
phones than have been turned off, AFP reported.  The cookie tins block electromagnetic radiation, thus
preventing unauthorized access to both phone calls and e-mails
transmitted through the mobile devices, according to AFP.  University Technology Transfer  Qteros, UMass, Amherst Say Ethanol-Production Patent Issued  Qteros Inc. , the exclusive licensee to technology developed
at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, said the school has
received a new U.S. patent related to an ethanol-producing
microorganism.  In  a joint statement , Qteros and the university said the
school received patent 7,943,363 B2, which covers the genetic
constructs of the particular organism, Clostridium
phytofermentans.  They said the Japanese Patent Office has also said it will
issue a patent on a system and method of producing biofuel by
the action of the organism on biomass.  The organism covered by the patents produces “virtually
all” the enzymes required to produce ethanol from biomass,
according to the statement.  First named inventor on the patent is  Jeffrey Blanchard , an
associate professor in the school’s Department of Microbiology.  Application for the patent was filed in July 2009 with the
assistance of  Milstein Zhang & Wu LLC  of Newton, Massachusetts.  IP Moves  Wilson Sonsini Adds Douglas Carsten to Patent Litigation Group  Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC hired Douglas H.
Carsten for its IP practice, the  Palo Alto , California-based
firm said in a  statement .  Carsten, a litigator, joins from Milwaukee’s Foley &
Lardner LLP. He has also previously practiced at the former Gray
Cary Ware & Friedenrich (now DLA Piper LLP of Chicago), and at
Los Angeles-based Irell & Manella LLP.  He has represented clients in the pharmaceutical and life
sciences industries, including drug companies involved in Hatch-
Waxman patent litigation.  Carsten has an undergraduate degree in chemistry and
English from the State University of New York at Stony Brook, a
master’s degree in chemistry from  Harvard University  and a law
degree from  Georgetown University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 