-- 
Japan Industrial Output Rises at Fastest Pace Since 1953 on Quake Rebound

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-06-29T12:33:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/japan-s-industrial-output-rises-5-7-as-companies-recover-from-earthquake.html
Japan ’s industrial production rose
at the fastest pace in more than 50 years, led by carmakers as
they restored operations at plants after a record earthquake and
tsunami on March 11.  Factory output increased 5.7 percent in May from April, the
biggest gain since 1953, the Trade Ministry said in Tokyo today.
The median estimate of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
was for a 5.5 percent gain.  Output in the  transportation industry  advanced 36 percent
from the previous month as automakers including Toyota Motor
Corp. and Nissan Motor Co. restarted production lines.
Manufacturers said they plan to increase output 5.3 percent this
month and 0.5 percent in July, according to a survey of
companies included in today’s report.  “The report shows that the  auto industry  is a strong
driving force” in boosting production, said  Hiroaki Muto , a
senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co. in
Tokyo. “The post-quake shock is running its course and
production is undergoing a V-shaped recovery.”  The output report follows data this week showing that
retail sales rose 2.4 percent in May from April, in a sign that
consumer demand is rebounding.  Auto Output  The gain in transport equipment output was the biggest
since comparable data became available in 1998. Carmakers are
hiring temporary workers, signaling the industry’s recovery from
the earthquake. Toyota Motor, the world’s biggest carmaker, said
last week it would employ as many as 4,000 workers from mid-July
as it prepares to ramp up production in October. Nissan has said
it has begun hiring as many as 200 temporary workers to help
boost output.  “The recovery has been fast,” Nissan’s Chief Executive
Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said on June 22. “Today we are near normal
production levels” in Japan, he said.  Manufacturing in the U.S. may rebound in similar fashion
after an interruption of parts from Japan restrained factory
activity, according to the  Federal Reserve . Strength in the
industry may help rekindle optimism that the expansion in the
world’s largest economy will accelerate after a first-half
slowdown.  Fed policy makers said in a statement after their June 21-
22 meeting that the recent cooling in economy growth was partly
due to “factors that are likely to be temporary,” including
the “supply chain disruptions association with the tragic
events in Japan.”  ISM Manufacturing  A report in two days may show the slowdown in U.S.
manufacturing extended into June. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s factory index is projected to drop to the lowest
level since August 2009, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  “We are confident that any further weakness in the ISM
will be temporary, owing to the earthquake/tsunami related
Japanese supply disruptions,” Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
economists led by Joe LaVorgna said in an e-mail to clients.  The yen traded at 81.00 per dollar at 11:57 a.m. in Tokyo
from 81.06 before the report was published. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock
Average gained 1 percent, led by exporters. Shares of carmakers
including Toyota and Honda Motor Co. rose.  Japan’s government last week raised its assessment of the
economy for the first time in four months as production and
exports show signs of recovering from a slump caused by the
disaster. The  Bank of Japan  also upgraded its view of the
economy this month.  Machinery Orders  Not all Japanese data show signs of improvement. Machinery
orders, an indicator of future  capital spending , dropped for the
first time in four months in April. Exports fell more than
economists projected last month from a year earlier, while on a
seasonally adjusted basis the shipments increased 2.5 percent in
May from April.  “Production by the manufacturing industry will likely
return to the pre-quake level by summer, but the risk will be a
slowdown in the recovery pace after then,”  Hiroshi Shiraishi ,
an economist at BNP Paribas SA in Tokyo, said before the report.
“Power supply problems could continue over several years and
uncertainties surrounding the overseas economy are growing.”  Analysts expect Japan’s economy to contract around a 3
percent annual pace in the second quarter before returning to
growth in the second half of the year, according to the average
forecast of 43 economists in a survey by the government-
affiliated Economic Planning Association released on June 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  