-- 
Japan Retail Sales Fell at 1.3% Pace in May, Less Than Economists Forecast

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-06-28T00:10:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/japan-retail-sales-fall-less-than-estimated-1-3-as-post-quake-slump-eases.html
Japan ’s retail sales fell at a
slower pace than economists estimated in May, adding to signs
that the worst of the post-disaster downturn in the world’s
third-largest economy may be over.  Sales slid 1.3 percent from a year earlier, the Trade
Ministry said in Tokyo today, the smallest drop since the March
11 earthquake. The median estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 2.2 percent decline.  Today’s report adds to signs that the economy is recovering
from the shock of an earthquake that left more than 23,000
people dead or missing. Beef-bowl chain operator Yoshinoya
Holdings Co. is among retailers reporting a rebound in sales as
consumer sentiment springs back from a two-year low.  “It’ll be a gradual recovery from here,”  Azusa Kato , an
economist at BNP Paribas in Tokyo, said before the report. “But
we have to remember this is only a rebound from an extraordinary
drop. We could still see secondary effects from the disaster
since jobs and incomes haven’t been faring well.”  Consumers stayed home after the disaster and store closures
due to power shortages also hurt businesses, causing retail
sales to tumble the most in 13 years in March. Economic and
Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  was among lawmakers urging
Japanese to spend, warning that consumer restraint was going to
exacerbate the downturn after the earthquake.  Yoshinoya said same-store sales increased 1.4 percent in
May from a year earlier after slumping 10.2 percent in the
previous month.  Consumer confidence  rebounded in May.  Retailers Expanding  Some retailers are also expanding market share in Japan’s
shrinking market. L’Occitane International SA, a maker of skin-
care products and soap, said yesterday its full-year profit grew
22 percent thanks to higher demand in Japan, its biggest
customer. The country accounted for 25 percent of revenue in the
period.  The earthquake will probably continue to hold down hiring
and pay, slowing gains in  consumer spending , BNP’s Kato said.
The earthquake snapped 12 consecutive months of wage gains in
March and pay continued to decline in April. Japan’s
unemployment rate probably rose to 4.8 percent in May, according
to the median of 31 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. The report
is due this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  Tokyo  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  