-- 
Japanese, Australian Stock Futures Advance as Greek Crisis Concern Ebbs

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-06-28T23:33:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/japanese-australian-stock-futures-advance-as-greek-crisis-concern-ebbs.html
Japanese and Australian  stock
futures  advanced amid rising confidence Greece will avoid a
default and after commodity prices increased.  American depositary receipts  of Canon Inc., a maker of
cameras and office equipment that counts Europe as its largest
market, advanced 0.9 percent from the closing share price in
Tokyo. Those of Kyocera Corp., a maker of solar panels, gained
0.6 percent after the Nikkei newspaper said the company will buy
a Danish toolmaker. ADRs of BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s
largest mining company and Australia’s No. 1 oil producer,
jumped 2.2 percent.  Futures on  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 9,765 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
9,650 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,750
in  Osaka , at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index jumped 1.2 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index gained 0.4 percent in Wellington.  “There’s less anxiety about the issues surrounding
Greece’s debt,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager at
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “Investors are starting to
move into riskier assets.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1.3 percent
yesterday in  New York , rising to its highest level in three
weeks, amid optimism Europea will take action to prevent a Greek
default and after Nike Inc.’s earnings beat estimates. Futures
on the index slid 0.1 percent today.  Seeking Bailout Deal  Germany’s biggest banks and insurers will meet today with
the  Finance Ministry  in Berlin in search of an agreement on how
creditors will contribute to a Greek aid package, two people
with knowledge of the matter told Bloomberg.  In  Greece , lawmakers will vote today and tomorrow on
budget cuts and tax increases that European officials have set
as a condition for delivering bailout money. Greece needs loans
from Europe and the International Monetary fund to cover 6.6
billion euros ($9.4 billion) of maturing bonds in August.  The yen depreciated to 116.67 against the euro, the lowest
level in two weeks, compared with 115.28 at the close of  stock
trading  in Tokyo yesterday. Against the dollar, Japan’s currency
weakened to 81.27 from 80.79. A weaker yen benefits Japanese
companies by boosting the value of their overseas income.  MSCI Index  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 4.6 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 3.1 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 3.8 percent the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.5 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.1 times for the S&P 500
and 10.8 times for the Stoxx 600.  Crude oil for August delivery rose 2.5 percent yesterday,
the biggest advance in almost six weeks, on speculation Greek
lawmakers will approve austerity measures to prevent a default
and on forecasts U.S. fuel demand will rise before the Fourth of
July holiday. The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
metals including copper and aluminum climbed 1.1 percent.  Kyocera will pay about 20 billion yen ($247 million) to
acquire Unimerco A/S, a Danish maker of carbide tools for
components used in car and airplane engines, aiming to boost its
sales in Europe, the Nikkei newspaper reported.  Japan’s trade ministry is scheduled to announce a report on
May’s industrial production today at 8:50 a.m. in  Tokyo . Factory
output probably rose 5.5 percent in May from a month earlier,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 