-- 
Japanese Stocks Advance as Europe Considers Debt Deal; Fanuc, Ricoh Climb

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 
2011-06-28T07:08:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/japanese-stocks-rise-as-europe-mulls-greece-debt-deal-sony-ricoh-advance.html
Japanese stocks rose, paring a
monthly loss for the  Nikkei 225  Stock Average, on speculation
Europe may be close to a deal that will allow cash-strapped
Greece to roll over some of its debt, helping avert a default
and a possible banking crisis.  Fanuc Corp. (6954) , a maker of factory robots that gets 11 percent
of sales in Europe, rallied 2.6 percent. Ricoh Co. climbed 1.2
percent after the Nikkei newspaper said the European Union will
cut tariffs on some office equipment.  Tokyo  Steel Manufacturing
Co. jumped 4 percent after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its
rating, saying the maker of construction materials will benefit
as  Japan  rebuilds from the March earthquake and tsunami.  “Investors are turning relatively optimistic,” said
Naoteru Teraoka, general manager at Tokyo-based Chuo Mitsui
Asset Management Co., which oversees about $28 billion. “ France 
and  Germany  are coming together in order to rescue  Greece .
Things are going to calm down.”  Nikkei 225 rose 0.7 percent to 9,648.98 at the 3 p.m. close
in Tokyo, paring the gauge’s loss for the month to 0.5 percent.
The broader Topix index gained 0.6 percent to 830.34. The index
has lost 11 percent since March 10, the day before a magnitude-9
earthquake and tsunami devastated Japan’s northeast coast,
triggering the worst nuclear accident in 25 years and leaving
more than 23,000 people dead or missing.  ‘Spill Over’  Japanese shares have also declined on signs the U.S.
economic recovery is slowing and amid a debt crisis in Greece
that the International Monetary Fund said could “spill over,”
hurting banks in the region that hold the country’s bonds.  Fanuc rallied 2.6 percent to 12,960 yen.  Sony Corp. (6758)  which
sells about 20 percent of its PlayStation game consoles and
other products in Europe, advanced 0.3 percent to 2,038 yen.
Nintendo Co., the world’s biggest maker of game, climbed 2.9
percent to 14,940 yen.  The euro gained to 115.77 against the yen, compared with
114.05 at the close of  stock trading  in Tokyo yesterday, amid
optimism Greece’s parliament will approve spending cuts and tax
increases to help it qualify for bailout money and avoid the
currency bloc’s first default. A weaker yen benefits Japanese
companies by boosting the value of their overseas income.  Lawmakers in Greece are due to vote on a five-year
austerity plan this week that must pass for the country to
secure more international aid. Greece needs loans from  Europe 
and the International Monetary fund to cover 6.6 billion euros
($9.4 billion) of maturing bonds in August.  Bailout Cost  France yesterday proposed that Greece’s creditors, the
biggest of whom are German and French banks, agree to roll over
70 percent of their bonds into longer maturity debt. The plan
would give Greece more time pay back its loans and also meet
calls for private business to shoulder some bailout costs,
without forcing banks to forgive debt outright.  “We’ve been working on this,” and hope other countries
will join the proposal, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said
yesterday at a news conference in Paris. Germany’s biggest banks
and insurers are weighing the plan, a person familiar with the
matter said yesterday.  Office-equipment  makers including Ricoh and  Seiko Epson 
Corp. advanced after the Nikkei reported the EU will cut tariffs
on printers and copiers equipped with faxes or scanners. The
decision will be announced June 29, according to the report.
Ricoh gained 1.2 percent to 867 yen. Seiko Epson added 0.6
percent to 1,368 yen.  Japan Rebuilds  Tokyo Steel Manufacturing jumped 4 percent to 828 yen.
Goldman Sachs raised the company’s investment rating to “buy”
from “neutral,” citing an improving profit outlook as Japanese
manufacturing recovers from the March 11 disaster.  Department stores and clothing outlets advanced after a
report showed sales at Japanese retailers may be rebounding
after slumping in the months following the quake. Sales declined
1.3 percent in May from a year earlier, compared with drops of
4.8 percent in April and 8.3 percent in March, the Trade
Ministry said in Tokyo today. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 2.2 percent decline.  J. Front Retailing Co., Japan’s fourth-biggest retailer by
sales, climbed 4.5 percent to 350 yen.  Isetan Mitsukoshi
Holdings Ltd. (3099) , the third-largest, advanced 2.5 percent to 767
yen. Takashimaya Co. rose 2.1 percent to 547 yen.  Consumer lenders advanced 1.9 percent, the most among the
Topix index’s 33 industry groups.  Aeon Credit Service Co., a lender part-owned by Japan’s
largest retailer Aeon Co., jumped 4.1 percent to 1,089 yen.
Daiwa Securities Group Inc. raised the lender’s investment
rating to “neutral” from “underperform,” saying there are
fewer claims for refunds of overcharged interest than expected.  Among stocks that fell,  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s largest
maker of cameras and office equipment, dropped 0.7 percent and
TonenGeneral Sekiyu K.K., a unit of Exxon Mobil Corp., declined
0.4 percent. Yesterday was the last day to purchase shares in
the company and get a dividend for the April-September period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 