-- 
Kim Jong-un Ascent Increases ‘Miscalculation’ Odds, Thurman Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-06-28T21:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/kim-jong-un-ascent-increases-miscalculation-odds-thurman-says.html
The inexperience and youth of  North
Korea ’s heir-apparent Kim Jong-un “increase the likelihood of
miscalculation” with  South Korea  and the U.S., according to the
nominee for top U.S. general there.  “Although little is known of the son, there is no evidence
to suggest his decision-making will differ significantly from
his father or that his strategic priorities will change,” Army
General James Thurman said in  written  answers to the Senate
Armed Services Committee today.  The White House has nominated Thurman to succeed the
current commander, General Walter Sharp. Thurman is commander of
U.S. Army Forces Command. His nomination “comes at a time of
significant change and simmering tensions on the Korean
Peninsula,” committee Chairman Senator  Carl Levin  said today.  Thurman said that the son’s youth -- he is believed to be
about 27 -- “and inexperience increase the likelihood of
miscalculation as does the imperative for him to establish
credibility with military hardliners he needs.”  “These factors make him less predictable in the near
term,” Thurman said. “Our primary concern is the potential for
additional North Korean provocations, which is a tool of choice
as part of its coercive diplomacy.”  Sharp in April testimony to the House and Senate armed
services committees said Kim’s succession plans “appear to be
accelerating.”  Kim Jong-un Promoted  Kim Jong-un in September was publicly promoted to a four-
star general in North  Korea ’s People’s Army and appointed as
vice chairman of the Korean Worker’s Party Central Military
Commission.  Among most of the recent provocations: a North Korean mini-
submarine is said by South Korean and U.S. officials to have
sunk in March, 2010, the South Korean warship Cheonan. The
following month, South Korea detained two North Koreans whom
they suspected were assassins on a mission to kill North Korea’s
most senior defector.  North Korea shelled the South’s Yeonpyeong island in
November, precipitating another crisis.  Thurman in his written statement disclosed that South Korea
and the U.S. still do not have an integrated, “layered” air
defense of overlapping missile systems needed to intercept North
Korean missiles during different flight paths.  No ‘Layered Defense’  “Although there is more than one missile system in the
Republic of Korea, they are not mutually supporting nor do they
provide layered defense,” Thurman wrote.  Both U.S. and Korean armies possess  Lockheed Martin Corp (LMT) .-
 Raytheon Co. (RTN)  early version Patriot and the latest version
Patriot-3 missiles that are capable of intercepting missiles
during their descent, or “terminal” phase, he said.  Still, the Republic of Korea Patriots by themselves
“provide very limited defense capability,” Thurman wrote. The
U.S. still hasn’t delivered to the South Koreans increased
quantities of Pac-3 and improved early model Patriots that the
Pentagon directed in 2008 for deployment, he said.  “To date, the designated number of munitions have not been
provided to U.S. forces” in South Korea, Thurman said.  Thurman singled out Lockheed Martin’s Terminal High
Altitude Air Defense Missile as the system that “would best
support the layered defense principle.” The new missile is
capable of intercepting targets either in their “mid-course”
flight path or during descent.  “A Thaad system could be used to provide layered defense
and improve early warning for the Korean Peninsula as well as
enhance missile defense early warning in the region,” he wrote.  The U.S. Army has  taken delivery  of its first Thaad
missiles, which have been months late because of production
delays to fix a safety device.  North Korea has an inventory of more than 800 missiles and
continues to build short- and medium-range weapons “of
increasing range and accuracy,” Thurman said. South Korea also
faces “possible fielding” of a new intermediate-range missile
and North Korea “grows closer to threatening the western  United
States  and striking  Alaska ,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 