-- 
King Defends Record-Low Rate as He Notes Threats From Greek Fiscal Crisis

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-28T12:02:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/king-defends-record-low-u-k-rates-as-he-points-to-risks-from-greek-crisis.html
Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King
defended policy makers’ decision to hold  interest rates  at a
record low as he noted risks to the U.K. economic recovery from
the sovereign-debt crisis in the euro area.  The bank’s “remit does allow for us to not to try to bring
inflation back to the target immediately if that were to lead to
undesirable volatility in output,” King said at the U.K.
Parliament’s Treasury Committee in London today. “Most of us on
the Monetary Policy Committee have taken the view that to
tighten policy now would be to risk that.”  King highlighted the threats from the debt crisis and said
the view among investors on the chance of a default in  Greece  is
high enough for the central bank to consider “contingency
plans.” The bank held its key rate at a record low of 0.5
percent this month to aid the recovery even after inflation
stayed at 4.5 percent in May, more than twice its goal.  “There is sufficient concern in the market about the
possibility of default for us to think carefully about
contingency plans and the consequences of this event,” King
said, referring to Greece.  Greek unions today shut down government services, halted
public transport and disrupted flights as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  urged lawmakers to back tougher budget cuts to secure
a new aid package that will help avoid a default.  ‘Buying Time’  “There are dangers with just buying time because if you
forget the problem and say ‘Well, thank goodness that’s gone
away for a few weeks,’ that can be a very dangerous attitude,”
King said. “If the underlying problems have not changed, the
crisis comes back in an even more severe form and that has been
the case right through the past 18 months in trying to deal with
Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland.”  Fellow Bank of England policy makers  Adam Posen , who has
called for the bank to expand its bond-purchase program, and
 David Miles , backed the position on interest rates at the
Treasury Committee today, saying  consumer spending  is weak, wage
growth is low and longer-term inflation expectations have not
risen markedly. Miles said he would more likely vote for further
bond purchases if “downside risks,” such as those from an
escalation of the euro-area debt crisis, materialized.  Inflation Target  King said that while the current level of inflation is
“clearly uncomfortably high,” the majority of the MPC hasn’t
seen signs that it is feeding through to second-round effects.  “If we were to see that, then I think we would be
concerned that our ability to meet the inflation target in the
medium term might require a much more severe policy further down
the road,” he said.  Investors have pushed back bets on the first increase to
beyond May 2012, according to forward contracts on the sterling
overnight interbank average. On June 1, traders were betting on
an increase in February, data from Tullett Prebon Plc showed.  Asked about the impact of a rate increase on the consumer,
King said moves in the benchmark may not be fully passed on to
retail rates. As the key rate rises, “you would expect it to be
accompanied by a process in which the spread between the rates
at which banks charge their borrowers and” the Bank of England
rate “would not go back to the very low levels that they were,
but would undoubtedly narrow.”  ‘Fragility’  Bank of England Chief Economist  Spencer Dale , who favors a
quarter-point interest-rate increase, also noted the
“fragility” of the recovery. He said in a report to the
committee today there are “merits to keeping  bank rate  on hold
or even increasing the scale of asset purchases further.”  Minutes of the MPC’s June 8-9 meeting showed that for some
members, “it was possible that further asset purchases might
become warranted if the downside risks to medium-term inflation
materialized.”  Deputy Governor Paul Tucker said that he has a “high
threshold” when considering the need for injecting more
stimulus into the economy. “I am one of those who from the back
end of last year has worried about the possibility of an upward
drift in inflation expectations,” he said.  The pound fell against the dollar today and was at $1.5969
as of 12:50 p.m. in  London , down 0.1 percent from yesterday.
 Government bonds  fell, pushing the yield on the 10-year gilt 5
basis points higher to 3.21 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  