-- 
Kohl’s, Intel Lead Vestas’s Ranking of Renewable Energy Users

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-06-28T13:47:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/kohl-s-intel-lead-vestas-s-ranking-of-renewable-energy-users.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
chipmaker, and the U.S. department-store chain  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  are
the top corporate users of  renewable energy , Bloomberg New
Energy Finance said in a report for Vestas Wind Systems A/S.  Intel bought 1,493 gigawatt-hours of electricity from
renewable sources in 2010, and Kohl’s purchased 1,418 gigawatt-
hours, according to New Energy Finance’s Corporate Renewable
Energy Index, or CREX. In terms of renewables as a proportion of
total power use, Kohl’s and Whole Food Markets Inc. had 100
percent. Intel’s 35 percent didn’t make the top 20.  Vestas, the world’s largest wind-turbine maker,
commissioned the index to provide transparency to consumers,
policymakers and companies on how goods are produced. Energy
from wind, solar, hydro and other renewables accounted for 12.1
percent of electricity purchased by the 102 companies in 16
countries that provided data for 2010.  “There’s a lot of discussion going on about how green
companies are and how much renewable energy they’re using,”
Vestas Chief Executive Officer Ditlev Engel said in an interview
in London. “This index can set a benchmark for how we measure
these things.”  Much as corporations like to know the safety record of
other companies before they work with them, renewable energy
usage will be a subject that business partners increasingly want
to know about, Engel said.  New Energy Finance compiled the ranking from responses to
an online survey, information from groups such as the Carbon
Disclosure Project and Bloomberg data. For the survey, the
London-based analyst contacted more than 1,000 companies, chosen
on the basis of the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index and a Bloomberg ranking of
the top 500 companies worldwide by market capitalization.  Because only the largest companies were contacted, “the
survey has an inevitable tilt toward the developed world, where
these organizations are headquartered,” it said.  Below are tables to show the top renewable electricity
buyers by total amount and by percentage of total usage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 