-- 
Korean Won Gains for First Time in Four Days on Current Account

-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 
2011-06-28T06:29:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/korean-won-gains-for-first-time-in-four-days-on-current-account.html
South Korea’s won advanced for the
first time in four days after the nation’s current account
surplus widened to a seven-month high and  Greece  made progress
in avoiding default.  The surplus was $2.26 billion in May, compared with a
revised $1.28 billion in April, the Bank of Korea said in a
statement in Seoul today. The won also rose on optimism Greece’s
creditors may be headed toward an agreement to roll over 70
percent of their bonds to prevent a default.  “Expectations that Greek creditors are probably headed
toward a rollover agreement are boosting stocks and the
currency,” said Ha Jun Woo, a currency dealer at Daegu Bank in
Seoul. “The current account, which had a surplus, also supports
the won.”  The won rose 0.2 percent to 1,083.55 per dollar as of the 3
p.m. close in  Seoul , after dropping 1.1 percent in the previous
three days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The current-account surplus in June will likely be at a
similar level to May and the surplus for this year will likely
reach $11 billion, Bank of Korea Director Yang Jae Ryong said.
The current account is the broadest measure of trade, tracking
goods, services and investment income.  The current-account surplus is “providing support for the
won, Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional economist at  Barclays
Capital  in  Singapore , said in a research note released today.
The won is “one of the most fundamentally undervalued
currencies in  Asia ” and will likely strengthen to 1,025 per
dollar in 12 months, he said.  The yield on  South Korea ’s 3.5 percent bond due June 2014
was unchanged at 3.72 percent, according to prices from Korea
Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  