-- 
Kuwait Approves Spending $14.5 Billion to Build Nation’s Largest Refinery

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-06-28T15:52:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/kuwait-council-approves-14-5-billion-refinery-project-oil-minister-says.html
Kuwait  may seek private investors to
help build its largest oil refinery after a government council
revived the 4 billion-dinar ($14.5 billion) project, which
stalled two years ago amid political opposition.  The Supreme Petroleum Council, the emirate’s highest
decision-making body for oil policy, approved construction of
the 615,000 barrel-a-day Al-Zour facility, Oil Minister Mohammad al-Busairy said today in a telephone interview in  Kuwait City .  The council authorized the plan yesterday, along with
proposals to upgrade two of the country’s three existing
refineries so that they can produce cleaner-burning fuels, the
minister said. Kuwait is trying to attract more private
investment to help pay for costly industrial improvements and
infrastructure as part of a 30.8 billion-dinar development
strategy to boost energy output and modernize transport links.  “The public will own a minority share” in the new
facility, and the ministry may also seek a foreign partner,
Kamel al-Harami, an independent oil analyst, said today by
telephone from  London . “This is the direction of the Kuwait
parliament and government,” he said, echoing a view expressed
earlier by some officials.  The Gulf nation may require that part of the Al-Zour
refinery be reserved for non-government investors, the chairman
of state-owned Kuwait Oil Co., Sami al-Rushaid, told reporters
in London on June 22. Kuwait suspended the project in March 2009
after opposition lawmakers said the leadership had circumvented
the law in awarding contracts with foreign companies without
going through the Central Tenders Committee.  Two-Phase Operation  In its first phase, the new plant would be able to process
300,000 barrels a day of products for the domestic market,
according to al-Harami. The second phase, for 315,000 barrels a
day, would replace output from Kuwait’s oldest and smallest
refinery at Shuaiba, which is planned for closure, and enable
the country to be self-sufficient in refined products, the
analyst said.  Once the Al-Zour facility is fully built, it should also
have enough spare capacity to provide products for export, he
said. Kuwait, which imports liquefied natural gas to supply its
power stations when demand peaks in the summer months, should be
able to reduce its imports of LNG and eventually stop them, al-
Harami said.  Council’s ‘Big Step’  The council’s approval of the plant is “a very big step,”
said al-Busairy, the oil minister. “We now have to follow all
legal procedures to implement the project.”  Kuwait awarded construction contracts for the refinery in
May 2008 to  JGC Corp. (1963)  of  Japan  and to  South Korea ’s  GS
Engineering & Construction Corp. (006360) , SK Engineering & Construction
Co., Daelim Industrial Co. and Hyundai Engineering &
Construction Co.  Fluor Corp. (FLR) , based in Irving,  Texas , won a
consulting contract. The initial plan called for the refinery to
start operating by 2012.  The facility may take form as a public shareholding company
to expand the role of private investors in the country’s
economic development, the state news agency KUNA reported last
July, citing the former minister for development, Sheikh Ahmad
al-Fahad al-Sabah.  “I don’t expect anything will go ahead this year in Kuwait
because the political situation is so unstable,” Thad Malesa,
an independent energy analyst, said by telephone from Dubai.
“Parliament will drag things out, frustrating any partners.”  Political Disputes  Disputes between Kuwait’s legislative and executive
branches have led to government resignations and halted other
projects. Lawmakers’ objections contributed to the scrapping of
a joint venture with Midland, Michigan-based  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ,
in December 2008.  Kuwait is the fifth-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumping 2.425 million barrels of
oil a day in May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
country’s current refining capacity is 930,000 barrels a day.  The two refineries approved for clean-fuel upgrades, Mina
Al-Ahmadi and Mina Abdulla, have respective output capacities of
460,000 and 270,000 barrels a day. The third, at Shuaiba, can
process as much as 200,000 barrels a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  