-- 
New York Offering $976 Million of State-Backed Tobacco Bonds: Muni Credit

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-06-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/new-york-offering-976-million-of-state-backed-tobacco-bonds-muni-credit.html
New York  leads this week’s sales
with almost $1 billion of tobacco bonds, which carry a state
pledge to cover any gaps in principal and interest on payments
from the 1998 health-care settlement that backs the debt.  New York Tobacco Settlement Financing Corp. has estimated
the $976 million refinancing of bonds issued in 2003 will
generate as much as $140 million in savings. The debt, which
matures from 2013 through 2018 and carries an AA- rating, may
yield 0.6 percentage point to 1 percentage point more than top-
rated securities with the same maturities, said John Flahive,
Boston-based director of fixed income for BNY Mellon Wealth
Management, who oversees $20 billion.  “You’re going to have to give a pretty decent concession
for the size, and for the tobacco,” Flahive said in a telephone
interview.  Last week, bonds backed solely by payments under the 1998
settlement with 46 states rallied on reports that cigarette
makers and state attorneys general agreed to settle a dispute
related to market-share losses. About $1 billion held in escrow
would be distributed to the states if the agreement is
completed, wrote Alan Schankel, director of fixed-income
research at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, in a
June 22 research report.  The reported agreement won’t have much impact on New York’s
sale because its tobacco debt trades on the basis of the state
backstop, Flahive said.  No Correlation  “It certainly hasn’t traded nearly like the MSA bonds when
there’s concern about deterioration of usage,” he said,
referring to the 1998 Master Settlement Agreement between the
 tobacco companies  and the states.  “If it didn’t really have that correlation when the MSA
bonds were going down I don’t think it’s going to have that much
correlation when it’s going up.”  A New York state-backed tobacco bond with a AA- rating
maturing in June 2022 traded at an average yield of 2.593
percent on June 23.  By contrast, a Michigan tobacco bond of the same maturity
without a state guarantee and rated BBB traded at a yield of
6.843 percent.  New York joins large offerings from  Florida ’s Citizens
Property Insurance Corp. and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico in
in the primary market this week. About $5.3 billion of municipal
bonds are slated to be priced this week, about the same amount
as each of the previous two weeks, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It’s going to be hit or miss between whether the deals
are going to be well received or not,” Flahive said.  Following is a description of a pending sale of U.S.
municipal debt:  PUERTO RICO , the Caribbean U.S. commonwealth, will offer
$304 million in tax-exempts as soon as today for its Public
Improvements Fund. The bonds aren’t yet rated, but the issuer is
ranked A3, the fourth-lowest investment grade, by Moody’s, and
BBB, the second-lowest investment grade, by Fitch. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. will lead the sale. (Updated June 28)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  