-- 
New York Prepares for Same-Sex Wedding Surge as State Makes Unions Legal

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-06-28T13:24:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/new-york-readies-for-same-sex-wedding-surge-as-state-makes-unions-legal.html
Barbara Simkins might have been just
another struggling bed-and-breakfast owner after opening the
 Green Rocks Inn  near the New York state line in Ridgefield,
Connecticut.  After her state’s  Supreme Court  legalized same-sex
marriage in October 2008, Simkins, 60, was named a justice of
the peace. She performed more than 75 weddings for such couples
in 2010 and may more than double that number this year.  “We saw an opportunity,” she said of the inn she runs
with Natacha Merav Friedman, her 41-year-old fiancee. “We’re
doing very well.”  New York’s June 24 enactment of a law permitting same-sex
marriages may provide a shot of much-needed economic stimulus
for the country’s third most-populous state. It may also draw
new residents after the population shrank almost 1 percent to
about 19.4 million people in the past year.  A study released last month by  New York ’s Independent
Democratic Conference, four state senators who favored the new
law, found that same-sex weddings would generate about $284
million in economic activity, producing $26.8 million in tax and
fee revenue in the first three years. They estimated that about
half of the state’s 43,000 same-sex couples living together
would marry while more will come from out of state.  Surge of Sales  “In the brief window that couples could get married in
 California , there was an incredible surge in goods and services
related to weddings, venue rentals, flowers, people traveling
from around the country to come to weddings,” said Jim Carroll,
interim executive director of Equality California, an advocacy
group in  San Francisco . “There’s definitely an economic boon
that results from same-sex marriage.”  From June 17 to Nov. 4, 2008, when such weddings were
allowed before voters banned them, the San Francisco county
clerk issued 5,152 marriage licenses to same-sex couples,
according to Ted Egan, an economist with the city Controller’s
Office. Fewer than half, 45 percent, were city residents, he
said in court testimony in 2009. Egan projected the ban would
cost the city about $35 million in annual economic activity.  Same-sex couples out-earn heterosexual pairs and tend to
have fewer financial obligations related to children, U.S.
Census Bureau figures show. That can make them a rich marketing
target. Homosexual communities have also historically helped
revive such aging inner-city neighborhoods as  Washington ’s
Dupont Circle,  Boston ’s South End, Miami’s  South Beach  and San
Francisco’s Castro district.  Higher Average Incomes  Households composed of unmarried same-sex couples had
incomes averaging about $104,000 in 2009, Census  figures show .
That compares with about $93,000 for married heterosexuals.
Among same-sex partners, 39 percent had incomes of $100,000 or
more, compared with 32 percent of traditional married couples.  Married couples generally are legally responsible for each
other’s financial obligations, creating an extra source of
payments for  car loans , home mortgages and other debts,
according to Jennifer Pizer, legal director for the Williams
Institute on Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Law at the
 University of California ,  Los Angeles .  New York may benefit financially if higher dual incomes
push couples out of qualifying for Medicaid and other social
services available to the poor, she said. The state may save $81
million on welfare benefits under the new law, the Independent
Democratic Conference report said.  Business Leaders’ Letter  The Legislature acted on Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s bill after
more than 30 New York business leaders, including  Lloyd Blankfein , the chief executive officer of  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , urged its passage in a June 6 letter. The group including
Bloomberg LP President Daniel L. Doctoroff said a failure to do
so would harm their ability to recruit “the best and the
brightest people.”  New York may become a magnet for same-sex couples because
of the change in the law, which previously didn’t recognize such
unions.  “We want to move to New York for the freedom,” said Jose
Garcia, a Venezuelan hair stylist, while viewing the city’s Gay
Pride parade in Manhattan June 26 with his partner, Edgar
Morales. The couple, both 37, said they plan to move to the
state as soon as this year because they can’t hold hands or say
“I love you” to each other in their home country.  “We want to get married,” Garcia said.  New York Campaign  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  plans an appeal to such
couples in a marketing campaign to pitch the most-populous U.S.
city as a site for same-sex nuptials. His “NYC I Do” campaign
“will create millions of dollars in additional economic
impact,” said Kimberly Spell, a spokeswoman for NYC & Co., the
city’s marketing arm. The city tourism industry generates $31
billion a year in economic activity.  The law allowing same-sex couples to wed was backed by 54
percent of New Yorkers, a Quinnipiac University poll reported
today. The poll was taken the week Cuomo signed the bill
legalizing the marriages. Most support came from voters under
age 35, who backed the legislation 70 percent to 26 percent.
Those over 65 opposed it 57 percent to 37 percent.  Tina Salandra, who runs Manhattan-based Numerical LLC, an
accounting firm with a focus on tax preparation for same-sex
couples, said she expects an increase in her business because of
the law and may add one or two employees to handle the increase.  The law may be a mixed blessing when it comes to income
taxes, as combined earnings may lead to higher marginal rates.
The effects will depend on how the state’s tax code is adapted
from a current requirement for filers to use the same status as
on their federal returns, Salandra said. The U.S.  Internal
Revenue Service  doesn’t recognize  same-sex marriages .  Overstated Gains  The state Taxation and Finance Department said it plans to
instruct such couples on how to file their returns “soon,” in
an e-mailed statement to Bloomberg News.  The law’s economic benefits may be overstated by same-sex
marriage advocates, said Brian Camenker, president of
MassResistance, an advocacy group in Waltham,  Massachusetts ,
where such unions have been legal since 2003. While there
haven’t been that many weddings, an influx of same-sex couples
has increased the state’s costs to provide health care to
indigents and aid in domestic-abuse cases, he said.  Meanwhile, some heterosexual families have moved out of
state because they didn’t want their children to be exposed to
the “culture wars,” Camenker said.  Same-sex marriage proponents “come up with what we
consider very questionable statistics about the impact,”
Camenker said by telephone. “This idea that there’s going to be
all these marriages doesn’t seem to be happening. You never see
them listed in the newspapers anymore.”  Hotels Benefit  Most of the economic benefits in New York will likely come
from state residents, given that those eager to marry have for
years been able to travel to nearby  Connecticut  and
Massachusetts for the ceremonies, said David Paisley, senior
projects director of Community Marketing Inc. in San Francisco.
The company helps businesses reach gays and lesbians.  The primary beneficiaries will be hotels that host wedding
ceremonies and receptions, as well as the guests who attend,
Paisley said.  “The money is local,” he said. “There’s huge pent-up
demand. You have couples who have been together for decades who
have not had the opportunity to marry and now they do,” without
traveling.  Simkins, the Ridgefield innkeeper who started her business
in 2008, said she expects to lose some trade to New York, which
is adjacent to her town. She said she’ll make it up from guests
from states and countries where the marriages remain illegal.  Tuxedos to Jeans  Like heterosexual ceremonies, the weddings she has
performed come in all shapes and sizes, from formal sit-down
dinners in traditional wedding dresses and tuxedos to one Danish
couple who got married in blue jeans and sleeveless tee-shirts.  One financial difference is that her inn is often booked on
weekdays because the couples already have a date they are
celebrating from a previous civil union ceremony, Simkins said.  “That way they don’t have to remember another
anniversary,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 Wselway@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 