-- 
New Jersey Pencil Maker Cedes No. 2s to China Despite Tariffs

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-06-28T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/new-jersey-pencil-maker-cedes-no-2-s-to-china-even-on-tariffs.html
Jim Weissenborn’s family has been
making pencils in  New Jersey  for 150 years.  In a three-story factory in  Jersey City  overlooking the
 Hudson River , 60 employees of  General Pencil Co.  use a century-
old process to pound graphite and clay into a powder that is
heated, wrapped in cedar wood, capped with an eraser and sent to
customers around the world.  General Pencil now focuses on colored and drawing pencils
rather than the yellow No. 2s used by generations of U.S.
schoolchildren. Chinese rivals dominate those sales, even after
U.S. producers in 1993 got the government to impose anti-dumping
duties on pencils exported by China at a fraction of the
American cost, and after those fees were renewed this month for
the third time.  “The yellow pencil basically became a Chinese commodity,”
Weissenborn, 72, the company’s owner and chief executive
officer, said in an interview. “We’ve had to become a very
boutique type of business in order to survive. Anti-dumping
helps the companies that are left get some relief from this
onslaught.”  Pencils are an example of American-made goods, from honey
to bedroom furniture, that the U.S. shields from global
competition it deems unfair and damaging to American industry,
using more than 300 anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders.
About half of those orders are imposed on iron and steel
products.  China  accounts for one third of all U.S. cases, the
most of any country, according to the trade commission.  China’s Lead  China accounted for $59.7 million, or 37 percent, of the
value of pencils imported by the U.S. last year, more than three
times  Brazil , the next-biggest exporter to the U.S., according
to the U.S. International Trade Commission and U.S. Department
of Commerce. That compares with $32 billion in  laptop computers ,
the biggest Chinese export to the U.S.  The U.S. collected more than $32 billion in tariffs in the
2010 fiscal year, with anti-dumping and countervailing duties
accounting for $314 million and China pencil levies for $4
million, according to  U.S. Customs  and  Border Protection .  Duties usually fail to protect U.S. industries because
they’re applied to specific countries and simply force
production from one low-cost market to another, according to
Douglas Irwin, an economics professor at  Dartmouth College  in
Hanover,  New Hampshire .  Whac-a-Mole Process  “It’s sort of a Whac-a-Mole process where you can only
hit one place at a time,” Irwin said in an interview.  In the case of pencils, China manages to “undersell U.S.
producers by a significant amount, even with the restraining
effects of the anti-dumping order,” Charles Anderson, a
Washington-based consultant for Dixon Ticonderoga Co., the
Heathrow, Florida-based maker of yellow pencils identified by
their green bands, said in a December letter to the trade
commission.  The U.S. reviews anti-dumping orders every five years and
is obligated by trade agreements to remove them unless doing so
is likely to lead to recurrence or continuation of dumping that
hurts American producers. The six-member trade commission voted
unanimously on June 13 to extend the order after four pencil
producers, including Dixon Ticonderoga and General Pencil, said
removal would lead to increased Chinese dumping.  “The dumping order has not kept Chinese pencils out,”
Anderson said in an interview. “Specialty products or higher-
value products are what the U.S. producers really concentrate
on.”  U.S. Producers  American producers accounted for 14 percent of pencil sales
in the U.S. in 2008, down from 28 percent in 2004, Dixon said in
its letter, citing  Writing Instrument Manufacturers Association 
and Commerce Department data.  David Baker, executive director of the manufacturers
association, declined to disclose sales for individual U.S.
companies, and the information was withheld from the trade
commission’s documents. The companies also declined to provide
the data.  U.S. demand has been steady at about 3.6 billion pencils
sold each year since the last review of the anti-dumping order
in 2005, according to the letter. Chinese pencil imports have
surged fivefold since 1996, and imports from all sources
worldwide have more than tripled, according to trade commission
and Commerce Department data.  The growth in pencil imports from China shows that the
anti-dumping order has been a failure, according to  Michael Moore , a professor at George Washington University in Washington
and an economist with the  Council of Economic Advisers  under
President  George W. Bush .  “The question I always ask is, ‘If a pencil manufacturer
didn’t exist in the U.S., would you set it up now?’” Moore said
in an interview. “If the answer is no, it probably means the
one that is here today won’t be here in 20 years.”  ‘Pencil City’  Pencil makers in the U.S. boast among their ranks Henry David Thoreau, the 19th century philosopher and writer, who
worked for a time in his father’s pencil factory, according to
 the website  of the Thoreau Society in Concord,  Massachusetts .  Musgrave Pencil Co. still produces yellow No. 2 pencils
along with specialty products at a factory in Shelbyville,
 Tennessee , according to Henry Hulan III, the company president
whose grandfather started the business in 1916. Shelbyville
calls itself “the Pencil City,” a remnant of an era when a
number of pencil factories operated there, according to Hulan.  Sanford Corp. continues to make yellow No. 2 pencils in
Lewisburg, Tennessee, said David Doolittle, a spokesman for
 Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (NWL) , which bought the company in 1992.
Sanford reduced production in 2008, he said in an e-mail.  Dixon Ticonderoga was bought by Fila-Fabbrica Italiana
Lapis ed Affini SpA of Milan in 2005 for about $22 million after
more than 200 years in business. While the company makes pencils
at facilities in the U.S., it also produces them in China,
Anderson said.  ‘Another 100 Years’  Yellow No. 2s produced by General Pencil have continued to
decline under the anti-dumping orders, and the number of workers
at its factory dropped about 30 percent by attrition since the
early 1990s, Weissenborn said.  Weissenborn credits anti-dumping duties for helping to keep
his family’s business going for a sixth generation. His
granddaughter joined the company in sales and marketing two
years ago after graduating from college, he said.  “As long as there’s a niche, we’ll be in business,”
Weissenborn said. “We’ve done this for 100 years and hopefully
can do it for another 100 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  