-- 
News Corp. Is Said to Weigh Two Cash-and-Stock Offers for Myspace Service

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-06-28T20:28:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/news-corp-is-said-to-weigh-two-cash-and-stock-offers-for-myspace-service.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , looking to conclude a
sale of Myspace this week, is weighing two cash-and-stock offers
for the social-networking service, according to a person with
knowledge of the situation.  News Corp. is in talks with Golden Gate Capital, a San
Francisco-based private-equity company, and Specific Media,
operator of an online advertising network, said the person, who
wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  The final price will include a continued equity stake in
Myspace for  Rupert Murdoch ’s New York-based News Corp.,
according to the person. The offers are in the $20 million to
$30 million range, plus a possible continuing equity stake, News
Corp.’s AllThings D reported today. News Corp. acquired Myspace
in 2005 with the $580 million purchase of Intermix.  As part of the deal this week, Myspace may cut more than
half of its staff, AllThings D reported. Rosabel Tao, a
spokeswoman for  Beverly Hills , California-based Myspace,
declined to comment.  Specific Media, based in  Irvine ,  California , declined to
comment, said Meredith Obendorfer, an outside spokeswoman for
the company founded by Tim and Chris Vanderhook. Barry
O’Sullivan, an outside spokesman for Golden Gate, declined to
comment.  Mike Jones , chief executive officer of Myspace, told
employees in January that News Corp. intended to spin off or
sell the website. Jones redesigned Myspace in October to build
online communities around films, TV shows and music.  Overseeing Process  Jack Kennedy, executive vice president of operations for
News Corp.’s digital group, has overseen the process, while
Allen & Co., a New York-based investment bank, marketed the
website to potential buyers.  Results for Myspace aren’t broken out in News Corp.
results. The division that includes Myspace lost $575 million in
News Corp.’s fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, according to
company reports. During that period, Myspace lost less than $100
million, the website said in an e-mail in October.  News Corp., controlled by Chairman and CEO Rupert Murdoch,
climbed 26 cents to $17.18 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading. The stock has risen 18 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  