-- 
News Corp.’s MySpace Settles Suit Claiming It Breached Users’ Data Privacy

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-06-28T21:47:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/news-corp-s-myspace-settles-suit-claiming-it-gave-away-data-1-.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s MySpace unit settled a
lawsuit claiming the company gave aggregators data that was used
to associate members by name, without their consent, to their
Internet-browsing history.  MySpace changed its practices and paid a total of $15,000
to three users of the social networking site who sued and
$750,000 to their lawyers, according to the settlement agreement
filed today in federal court in Brooklyn, New York. The company
also agreed to donate $50,000 to a nonprofit group or consultant
to research the promotion of online privacy.  In “virtually all” cases where user identifications
“remain part of the ‘advertising call’ transmission to a third
party, MySpace now encrypts” the user identification, according
to the agreement.  MySpace shared the data with aggregators after telling
members they could restrict access to their information,
according to the complaint. The suit, filed by  New York  law
firms Milberg LLP and Reese Richman LLP on April 13, sought
class-action, or group, status and unspecified damages.  Julie Henderson , a spokeswoman for New York-based News
Corp., declined to comment.  MySpace denied any liability, according to the agreement.  The company made changes including removing user IDs from
the “web addresses of all MySpace.com pages that only can be
accessed by the profile owner,” according to the agreement.  Substantive Issues  The parties didn’t negotiate the lawyers’ fees or plaintiff
payments until after the plaintiffs’ reached their settlement on
the substantive issues, according to the agreement.  The three users, including one who filed a similar case
last year in federal court in  California , each got $5,000.  The MySpace users said in the complaint that “MySpace
knowingly serves as and profits handsomely from being a conduit
through which details of the most intimate aspects of its
members’ lives, as reflected in their Internet browsing history
and otherwise, are transmitted to data aggregators.”  Rupert Murdoch ’s Newscorp., looking to conclude a sale of
MySpace this week, is weighing two cash-and-stock offers for the
social-networking service, according to a person with knowledge
of the situation.  News Corp. is in talks with Golden Gate Capital, a San
Francisco-based private-equity company, and Specific Media,
operator of an online advertising network, said the person, who
wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  The case is Virtue v. MySpace Inc., 11-cv-1800, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 