-- 
Nifty Futures Rise as Default Concern Eases

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-06-28T02:47:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/nifty-futures-rise-as-default-concern-eases.html
India ’s stock-index futures rose,
signaling gains in benchmark indexes, as easing concern over a
possible Greek debt default bolstered confidence in global
economic growth.  SGX S&P CNX Nifty Index futures for June delivery climbed
0.5 percent to 5,565.5 at 10:33 a.m. in Singapore. The futures
are derived from the 50 stocks on the underlying S&P CNX Nifty
Index on the National Stock Exchange of India, which rose 1
percent to 5,526.60 yesterday. The benchmark Bombay Stock
Exchange Sensitive Index advanced 0.9 percent to 18,412.41.  Asian stocks gained today after two people familiar with
the plan said Greek creditors may be headed toward a rollover
agreement involving 70 percent of their bonds to prevent a
default. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index increased 0.8 percent,
paring its June decline to 3.3 percent.  “Once the Greece crisis is over, we expect incremental
buying to come back in stocks, which will take the Nifty to
5,700 levels,” said  Manish Sonthalia , who manages $300 million
in equities at Motilal Oswal Asset Management Co. in Mumbai.
“Barring Euro-zone worries, all negatives are discounted for in
the price.”  The Sensex has declined 10 percent this year, the second-
worst performer among Asian benchmark indexes tracked by
Bloomberg, on concern efforts to curb inflation will hurt the
economy. India’s central bank has raised rates 10 times since
the start of last year to cool rising consumer and food prices.
Sensex stocks are valued at 14.9 times estimated earnings,
compared with 10.8 for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  Inflation Pressure  “Inflation is an important constraint that we have to
tackle,” Indian Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said in
 Washington  yesterday. “We can live with” inflation of between
6 percent and 6.5 percent, though a 5 percent to 5.5 percent
rate would be “ideal,” Mukherjee said. The wholesale-price
index, India’s main inflation gauge, rose 9.06 percent in May
from a year earlier, a government report showed June 14.  India is returning to a higher growth path, though price
pressures are a “serious” limit on those efforts, Mukherjee
told the forum organized by the Confederation of Indian Industry
and the  Brookings Institution .  Signs are emerging that rising borrowing costs have begun
to crimp demand. India’s $1.4 trillion economy expanded 7.8
percent in the three months through March 31, the slowest pace
in five quarters, government data show. Some 33 percent of the
companies in the Sensex reported profits that missed analysts’
estimates in the March quarter, compared with less than a
quarter that did so last year.  Economic Growth  “We have downgraded our corporate earnings estimate for
the year ending March 31, 2012, by 5 percent as we don’t see
phenomenal growth,” said A.S. Thiyaga Rajan, a senior managing
director at Aquarius Investment Advisors Pte. in  Singapore ,
which manages about $350 million in Indian assets. “We’re not
looking at fresh investments till everything is clear.”  Aquarius Investment continues to hold infrastructure,
banking, consumer, education and hospitality stocks as these
industries will benefit from India’s growth, Rajan said.  The nation’s economic expansion and corporate earnings
prompted foreign funds to buy a record $29.4 billion of domestic
stocks in 2010, lifting the Sensex by 17 percent and making it
the best performer and most expensive among the world’s 10
biggest markets.  Overseas investors bought a net 10.2 billion rupees ($227
million) of Indian stocks on June 24, paring withdrawals from
equities this year to 9.08 billion rupees, according to data on
the  website  of the  Securities and Exchange Board of India .  ‘Positive Catalyst’  “We had moved to a bullish stance on markets from a
cautious one in early June, and recommend clients continue
buying Indian equities,” Parul Saini, an analyst at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc, wrote in a report yesterday. “The
government’s decision to hike retail fuel prices in spite of the
decline in crude  oil prices  suggest the government is shaking
off its decision-making inertia. This should be a positive
catalyst for the Indian equity markets.”  Policy makers allowed state refiners on June 24 to increase
diesel prices by 3 rupees a liter, kerosene by 2 rupees a liter
and cooking gas by 50 rupees for every 14.2 kilogram bottle.
Refiners lost 450 billion rupees in the first quarter from
selling fuel below cost.  Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR)  may be active today. Vedanta Resources
Plc, the biggest Indian aluminum maker, will pay 9.4 percent
less for Cairn Energy Plc’s 40 percent holding in Cairn India
under an agreement to drop a so-called non-compete fee.  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) , India’s largest iron-ore miner, may move. The
company is in talks with Greystone Mineracao do Brasil and is
seeking a partnership with the Brazilian mining company,
Chairman Rana Som said yesterday. He declined to give details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  