-- 
Nigeria’s Bourse Targets $1 Trillion Market Value in Five Years, CEO Says

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   O l i v e r   J o y
-- 
2011-06-28T16:08:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/nigeria-s-bourse-targets-1-trillion-market-value-in-five-years-ceo-says.html
The  Nigerian Stock Exchange , whose
index has tumbled 67 percent from its March 2008 peak, is
targeting a market value of $1 trillion in five years as it
attracts companies and plans to give shares to members through
demutualization, Chief Executive Officer Oscar Onyema said.  “Our goal is to grow our market capitalization from $74
billion to $1 trillion in five years,” Onyema said in an
interview in Moscow today. “If we can attract the oil and gas
sector, if we can attract the telecoms sector and power sector
then we should be able to hit those numbers.”  The bourse, whose index is sub-Saharan Africa’s third-worst
performer over the past 12 months after Kenya and Botswana’s, is
the second-biggest by market capitalization after  South
Africa ’s, which has a value of $494 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan has asked the nation’s
Securities and Exchange Commission to get oil exploration and
telecommunications companies to trade their shares on the
exchange, Arunma Oteh, the regulator’s head, said on Feb. 7.  Oil exploration, power and telecommunications companies
aren’t represented on the bourse and “would be totally new
areas for the exchange,” said Onyema. Agriculture is “another
area where we will be making a push” as it’s underrepresented
on the bourse and makes up 40 percent of the West African
nation’s gross domestic product, he said.  Nigerian Petroleum Listing  “We really want them because we believe a well functioning
capital market is a good barometer for the economy,” Onyema
said. “So where these major sectors are not represented in our
capital markets today we are not giving you an accurate picture
of the economic potential of  Nigeria .”  Nigerian National Petroleum Corp., the state-owned oil
company of Africa’s top oil producer that holds an average 57
percent stake in joint ventures with companies including Royal
Dutch Shell Plc, Total SA and Exxon Mobil Corp., may list after
lawmakers pass a bill to regulate the oil industry, Oteh said
June 23.  Onyema is “implicitly saying that NNPC is going to get
listed and hurray, let’s pop the champagne corks and get the
ball rolling,” Christopher Hartland-Peel, a London-based Africa
equity analyst at Exotix Ltd., said by phone today. “It’s
perfectly feasible” to reach the market-value target “and
great news because it means the listing of NNPC with its
approximately 1 million barrels a day oil production and
reserves that go with it,” he said. All the cement companies,
breweries and banks “of any significance” are already listed,
said Hartland-Peel.  Demutualization Plan  The exchange of  Africa ’s most populous country has no time
frame for its plans to demutualize and a committee focusing on
the process is scheduled to start next month, Onyema said.  “We want to do it right, we don’t want to do it in a
rush,” he said. “We want to make sure we take into
consideration all the stakeholders and we address all the key
questions that need to be addressed as part of the
demutualization process.”  The Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index fell for the
second day, declining 0.6 percent to 25,023.84 by the 2:30 p.m.
close in Lagos, according to an e-mailed statement from the
bourse.  Onyema, who started work in April, replaced Emmanuel
Ikazoboh who was appointed in August as interim administrator
after the Securities and Exchange Commission removed former head
 Ndi Okereke-Onyiuke , as part of measures to address “inadequate
oversight of the exchange,” it said.  Onyema joined the Nigerian bourse from the  American Stock
Exchange , where he was a senior vice president and chief
administrative officer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Joy in Moscow via London at 
 ojoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  