-- 
Nigeria Reserves May Rise to Strongest in More Than Year, FBN Capital Says

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-06-28T10:43:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/nigeria-reserves-may-rise-to-strongest-in-more-than-year-fbn-capital-says.html
Nigeria ’s foreign-currency reserves
may rise 24 percent to the highest in a year in the second half
of 2011 as it creates a sovereign wealth fund, tightens spending
and lifts curbs on inflows, FBN Capital Ltd. said.  The foreign-currency reserves of  Africa ’s top oil producer
may rise to $40 billion, FBN Capital, the investment-banking
unit of  First Bank of Nigeria Plc (FIRSTBAN) , said in an e-mailed research
note today. That would be the highest since April 2010,
according to data from the Abuja-based  Central Bank of Nigeria ’s
website. Reserves have fallen 14 percent to $32.3 billion as of
June 24 compared with a year earlier. Bonny Light oil has added
38 percent over the same period. The West African country relies
on crude exports for about 95 percent of its foreign-currency
earnings, according to the  Finance Ministry .  “Our feeling is that in the second half of 2011, reserves
will pick up, perhaps to $40 billion, as the new government opts
for modest fiscal tightening and foreign investors respond
positively to the reform agenda,” Gregory Kronsten, the London-
based head of macroeconomic and fixed-income research at FBN,
wrote in the note. A transparent sovereign wealth fund would
address market concerns over how the nation’s oil revenues are
managed, he said.  President  Goodluck Jonathan , who was returned to power in
April elections, rejected proposals by lawmakers and slashed
almost 500 billion naira ($3.2 billion) off a budget adopted two
months earlier, taking the final spending plan to 4.5 trillion
naira. Nigeria’s Senate passed a bill last month creating a
sovereign wealth fund to help the country save more of its oil
revenue and funnel money into projects.  Currency Demand  Nigeria will lift a requirement for foreign investors to
hold local-currency investments in  government securities  for at
least one year from July 1, Lamido Sanusi, governor of the
central bank, said June 23.  The West African nation’s reserves may not have risen
because foreign-currency “demand at auction is robust and has
not cooled since the elections in April,” said Kronsten.  Demand at the central bank’s its twice weekly auctions
reached a post-election high of $499 million on May 16 and was
at $476 million on June 22. The bank has defended the naira,
keeping it within 3 percent above or below 150 per dollar
marginal rate at foreign-exchange auctions in a bid to curb
inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  