-- 
No Immunity for Bank Bond Risk at 2011 Highs on Greece: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-06-29T06:02:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/no-immunity-for-bank-bond-risk-at-2011-highs-on-greece-australia-credit.html
Australian banks are finding they’re
not immune to the debt crisis engulfing Europe as a gauge of
funding costs reached the highest in almost a year and bond risk
surged to the most since July.  Greek lawmakers are debating austerity measures required to
unlock the next installment of the nation’s bailout.  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC) ,  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ,  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  --
downgraded by Moody’s Investors Service last month due to their
reliance on debt funding markets -- don’t own Greek debt and get
at least 70 percent of their revenue at home, where growth is
forecast to outpace the U.S. and Europe next year.  “ Risk aversion  is dominating markets at the moment,” said
David Plank, Sydney-based head of research at Deutsche Bank AG.
“Does it make sense? Not really, given Aussie banks’ lack of
exposure to Greece, but lots of things don’t make sense from a
fundamental perspective when markets are dislocated.”  The gap between Australia’s bank bill swap rate and the
overnight indexed swap rate, a gauge of banks’ reluctance to
lend, surged to 34 basis points on June 27, the highest since
July 7 and up from as little as eight basis points in April. The
Libor-OIS spread, a similar measure for global  U.S. dollar 
funding, has fallen two basis points this month to 13.  Bond Risk  The average cost of credit-default swaps on the senior debt
of Australia’s four biggest banks jumped 1.8 basis points to
131.5 basis points yesterday, the highest level since July 7
last year, according to prices from CMA.  Australia’s bank bill rate, a measure of what banks charge
to lend to each other and the local equivalent of the London
interbank offered rate, has hovered within three basis points of
5 percent for all of June for three-month debt. Interest-rate
swaps, which track expectations for the Reserve Bank of
Australia’s benchmark rate, have dropped nine basis points this
month to 4.72 percent on concerns  Greece  will struggle to avoid
default.  Yields on all Australian  government securities  maturing in
six years or less touched levels below the Reserve Bank’s
overnight target rate of 4.75 percent yesterday in Sydney. The
last time that occurred was during the credit freeze that
followed Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in 2008.  Greece’s Creditors  Greece’s creditors are considering a rollover agreement
involving 70 percent of their bonds to prevent a default and
meet politicians’ calls that they contribute to the country’s
second rescue in as many years. The nation’s lawmakers are
scheduled to vote on the austerity measures today.  Euro region finance ministers meet on July 3 in Brussels to
work on a plan to be approved at a follow-up meeting on July 11.
A deal on the rollovers is needed to get the new aid package
passed, a condition for freeing up a 12 billion-euro ($17.2
billion) payment from the original bailout that Greece needs to
meet 6.6 billion of bond maturities in August.  Australian banks have no holdings of Greek debt, according
to data from the  Bank for International Settlements  as of the
end of 2010. French banks lead the group of Greek creditors with
overall claims amounting to $56.7 billion, including sovereign
debt holdings and lending to companies and households.  Officials at Australia’s four largest lenders yesterday
confirmed they don’t hold Greek bonds.  Bank Profits  The banks, which remained largely profitable throughout the
credit crisis without government bailouts, have been mostly
unaffected by the Europe credit crunch so far,  Reserve Bank  of
Australia Assistant Governor  Guy Debelle  said in a speech in
Sydney yesterday.  “At the moment there is very little sign of any stress,”
he said. Australia’s banks have all issued “quite a bit in
recent weeks notwithstanding the state of global markets.”  Commonwealth Bank announced bond offerings in six
currencies this month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  National Australia Bank sold 750 million euros of 3.75
percent 2017 notes on June 1, the data show. The bonds, sold at
99.828 cents on the euro, traded at 99.722 cents as of 3:16 p.m.
in Sydney, according to ANZ Bank prices.  Nomura Holdings Inc. cut its bond sale forecast for
Australia’s four biggest banks to A$89 billion ($93.9 billion)
for the 2011 financial year, from an earlier estimate for the
period of as much as A$130 billion, according to a report
published last month.  Bonds Gain  Financial bonds in Australian dollars have gained 1 percent
this month, compared with a loss of 0.5 percent on global bank
debt, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  The nation’s central bank may also be better equipped than
global peers to respond if  Europe ’s debt crisis worsens, after
boosting its cash rate to the highest in the developed world.
The RBA last week said it weighed the European situation against
a forecast pick-up in local growth and inflation in deciding to
keep borrowing costs on hold this month.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  raised the cash rate seven times
between October 2009 and November 2010, bringing it to 4.75
percent. He slashed borrowing costs to a record low 3 percent in
2009 amid the credit freeze, from 7.25 percent in August 2008.  The euro region is likely to expand 2 percent in 2011 and
1.7 percent in 2012, according to the median estimates of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. In the U.S., where the jobless
rate climbed to 9.1 percent in May, growth is estimated to be
2.5 percent this year and 2.95 percent in 2012.  Australia ’s
economy may expand 2.8 percent in 2011 and 4 percent next year,
the surveys show.  Mining Boom  Demand for commodities has helped the nation’s currency
gain 20 percent against the U.S. dollar in the past 12 months.
It reached $1.1012 on May 2, the highest since exchange controls
were scrapped in 1983, and traded at $1.0560 at 3:33 p.m. in
Sydney.  Consumer prices in Australia may rise an annual 2.7 percent
in the next five years, based on the gap between yields on
 government bonds  and inflation-indexed notes.  Yields on Australia’s benchmark 10-year bonds climbed 10
basis points today to 5.16 percent, after falling to within 0.25
percentage point of the central bank’s benchmark on June 27, the
smallest gap since Feb. 2, 2009.  Moody’s lowered its rating on Commonwealth Bank, Westpac,
ANZ Bank and National Australia Bank to Aa2, its third-highest
grade, citing their reliance on debt markets that will be “less
liquid and a lot more volatile” over the next five to seven
years, Patrick Winsbury, a senior vice president at the firm in
Sydney, said in a May 19 interview.  “Even though Australian banks are some of the healthiest
globally, if the Greece situation worsens we would expect to see
the price they pay for debt to increase,” said Mark Bayley, a
Sydney-based credit strategist with advisory company Aquasia
Ltd. “In any time of financial stress there’s a tendency for
investors to throw the baby out with the bathwater.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  