-- 
No Middle Ground as States Look to Limit Abortion Rights: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-28T18:28:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/no-middle-ground-as-states-look-to-limit-abortion-rights-view.html
Abortion is back at the center of
politics. In Congress and especially in state legislatures,
bills have been introduced to ban financing for abortion, to
restrict insurance coverage for abortion and to compel women to
get ultrasounds before considering abortions.  In roughly the last year, six states have passed laws to
ban abortion at the 20th week after conception. The legislative
approaches are different, but the goal is pretty much the same:
to get around the 1973  Supreme Court decision  that declared a
woman’s right to abortion.  Despite efforts by many a pundit and politician to find
one, there is no centrist or moderate position on abortion. If
you believe that the fetus is a human being with human rights,
abortion is immoral, plain and simple, and ought to be illegal.
If you believe anything short of that, then a woman’s right to
control her own body dictates that abortion should be one of her
options, at least most of the time.  When does human life begin? Many abortion opponents focus
on the fact that life is a continuum, from embryo through fetus
to baby and beyond. Where do you draw the line, if not at the
very start of this process? But the law frequently draws lines
simply because a line needs to be drawn. There is nothing
magical about a 55 mph speed limit, as opposed to 56 mph or 54
mph.  Many of us also have no problem accepting the theory of
evolution, another process with tiny, primitive organisms at the
beginning and complex human beings at the end. At what point in
evolution did people become people? There is no certain answer
to that question. But we generally feel comfortable with the
idea that it happened gradually.  Abortion, in short, isn’t a situation like the burning
building that may or may not have someone trapped in it -- the
point being that in this situation, morality requires you to err
on the side of caution and act as if there was someone caught in
the flames. The same is true of a fetus that might or might not
be a human being, right-to-life groups argue. But in the case of
a fetus, the uncertainty is not factual and can never be
resolved definitively.  Advocates of abortion choice present their own burning-
building puzzle. Suppose that a baby is in one room and jars
containing two embryos are in another. You only have time to
save the occupants of one room. Would you really grab the
embryos (microscopic entities with no self-awareness, ability to
feel pain and so on) and leave the crying baby to die in the
flames? By anti-abortion logic, you would.  We think abortion should be a choice available to all
women, paid for by the government if necessary, and without a
lot of hypocritical regulations and limitations intended to make
it difficult to obtain. But we respect the right-to-life
movement as one of the only major interest groups in American
politics that is dedicated to promoting interests other than its
own.  We don’t respect those who use coercion and intimidation
masquerading as legitimate protest -- or worse, actual murder --
to stop the work of abortion clinics. They may well be sincere
in their belief that murder is going on inside those clinics.
But in a democracy, where there are lawful ways to achieve
change by changing people’s minds, no one has the right to short
circuit that process.  Actually, that’s not quite true. Nine  Supreme Court 
justices do have the right and the power (in fact, the duty) to
short circuit the democratic process. That’s what the court did
in its Roe v. Wade decision, which declared a privacy right
broad enough to cover abortion.  Much of what makes people unhappy with the state of
American politics can be traced back to Roe. The case energized
the far right and politicized religious fundamentalists. It led
many liberals to feel that the best approach to achieving their
goals was through unelected judges.  We have the sense that abortion would be widely, if not
completely, legal today in the  United States , with far less
controversy, if state legislatures had been allowed to continue
the process of legalization that was picking up steam when the
Supreme Court shut it down.  Now the legislative branches have returned to the fight.
Too bad they’re on the other side.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 