-- 
Nobelist Weinberg Ponders Higgs Boson, Dark Matter: Interview

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-06-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/nobelist-weinberg-ponders-higgs-boson-particles-of-dark-matter-interview.html
Nobel Prize-winning physicist Steven Weinberg was in  New York  to talk about the future of big
science.  Making new discoveries is expensive. The Large Hadron
Collider built by  CERN , the European Organization for Nuclear
Research, lies in a circular tunnel 17 miles in circumference
under the Franco-Swiss border. It cost more than $10 billion,
and required a global army of scientists and engineers to
create.  As funding for basic research is cut, Weinberg worries
that the current “heroic period” of physics will come to an end,
leaving us ignorant of the fundamental laws of the universe.  Weinberg earned his 1979  Nobel Prize  for work on the
unified theory of weak and electromagnetic interactions and is
widely regarded as the preeminent theoretical physicist in the
world.  He currently holds the Jack S. Josey-Welch Foundation Chair
in Science and is director of the Theory Research Group at the
 University of Texas  at Austin.  We spoke at  New York University  during the World Science
Festival.  Lundborg: What’s the best thing that can come out of the
Large Hadron Collider?  Weinberg: The most exciting thing that has a good chance of
happening is to discover particles of dark matter, which we know
makes up five-sixths of the matter of the universe.  It’s not any of the particles described by the standard
model. We can imagine various possibilities of what it might be,
and many of those possibilities are things that would be created
at the Large Hadron Collider.  Lundborg: What about the particle everyone’s looking for --
the Higgs boson?  Weinberg: Because the Higgs boson is really required by the
simplest version of the theory that unifies the weak and
electromagnetic forces, it’s very likely to be discovered.  The theory has other versions which would lead to the
discovery of other kinds of particles, the so-called technicolor
particles.  We have a fair degree of certainty that one or the other of
those, and very likely the Higgs boson, will be discovered.  In
fact, it’s so likely that we already anticipate it, so it
probably won’t get us anything new. What we really need is
something that we don’t anticipate.  Lundborg: Just before he died, Victor Weisskopf said he’d
had a great life: “I’ve lived between the time penicillin was
discovered and before the oil ran out.”  How would you characterize your own life?  Weinberg: In the fields I’ve worked in, cosmology and
elementary particle physics, lots of the pieces of the puzzle
that nature presents have fallen into place.  When I was a student, we had to learn about lots and lots
of different particles and forces and everything seemed
mysterious, and now we teach physics as a deductive consequence
of a simple theory, the standard model.  Lundborg: What are you working on now?  Weinberg: I’m trying to finish a treatise on quantum
mechanics. I’m trying to understand some things that I’ve never
understood, particularly the question of what you mean when you
make a measurement in quantum mechanics.  Lundborg: Richard Feynman famously said, “If you think you
understand quantum mechanics, you don’t.”  Weinberg: I think he’s right. There’s something deeply
disturbing about any of the various candidate interpretations of
quantum mechanics, and I think what may be required is a new
rethinking of quantum mechanics, but I’m getting nowhere so far.  Lundborg: Is string theory still the best game in town?  Weinberg: It’s the best game in town, but it may not be the
right game.  Lundborg: You’re disappointed that it hasn’t actually led
anywhere?  Weinberg: Since the 1980s string theory has not come up
with a prediction of anything new that we could then verify in
the laboratory in a way that could convince us that string
theory is right.  Although there may be one fundamental string theory, it has
many, many solutions.  And finding the one that describes our
world may be impossibly hard.  Lundborg: Lots of physicists went to  Wall Street , so is
there a brain drain?  Weinberg: My experience is that the students who really are
so good that they can feel they are going to be part of the
effort of discovering the fundamental principles of nature or
answering deep questions about cosmology, those students stay in
the field.  It’s the students who are not so sure of that who migrate
into Wall Street. I don’t know of any cases where a student was
doing really first-rate work who then moved into Wall Street.  I mean, all they can offer is money.  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 