-- 
Nobel Prize Winner to Test Cancer-Causing Bug in Drinkable Flu Vaccine

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-06-28T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/nobel-winner-marshall-to-test-cancer-causing-bug-in-drinkable-flu-vaccine.html
Barry J. Marshall, the Australian
scientist who won a  Nobel Prize  for identifying a cancer-causing
stomach bacterium, plans to start a trial next year using the
bug in a drinkable flu vaccine.  Marshall, the founder, scientific director and majority
owner of closely held  Ondek Ltd. , plans to test the vaccine in
at least 30 people in the U.S., and expects results from the
trial by mid-2013, he said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Ondek, based in Perth,  Australia , aims to harness the
ability of the bacterium  Helicobacter pylori  to colonize the
stomach. The bug’s harmful genes will be removed and those from
influenza and other viruses will be inserted to stimulate an
immune response. If successful, the vaccine would be sold as a
freeze-dried powder or a capsule, sidestepping the inconvenience
and side effects of injections, Marshall said.  “We’re focusing on flu because we think that would be
attractive to investors,” Marshall said. “That’s the big
market.”  A preliminary study, in which healthy volunteers received
disarmed strains of the bacterium in a beef broth, showed some
strains were capable of safely colonizing the gut, proving the
concept is feasible, Marshall said. The strains weren’t carrying
any viral genes. He presented the results at a conference in
 Singapore  on June 23.  The flu-vaccine market reached about $3.7 billion last
year, Ondek said on its website. The company, which has about 20
investors, has raised more than A$3 million ($3.1 million) of a
targeted A$5 million for the next trial and is seeking more
funding, Marshall said.  “In Australia people are more comfortable with mining
investments and will put massive amounts of money into holes in
the ground,” he said. “We don’t have a lot of mature investors
yet who’ve had a good experience in biotechnology, and can see
that it’s a similar type of risk-benefit ratio.”  Marshall won the  2005 Nobel Prize  in Physiology or Medicine
with J. Robin Warren for their discovery of H. Pylori and its
role in gastritis and peptic-ulcer disease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  