-- 
North, South Sudan to Negotiate Cease-fire in Border States, Mbeki Says

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-06-28T16:35:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/north-south-sudan-to-negotiate-cease-fire-in-border-states-mbeki-says.html
Sudanese authorities and officials
from Southern  Sudan  agreed to start negotiating a cease-fire in
two northern border states where fighting has threatened to
spread before the south’s independence next month.  Under a “framework agreement” reached today, talks between
the ruling parties in the north and south on Southern Korodfan
and Blue Nile states will start tomorrow in Addis Ababa, ex-
South African President  Thabo Mbeki , head of an African Union
panel on Sudan, told reporters in the Ethiopian capital.  The accord “puts us on the way forward to ending the
conflict in South Kordofan as well as establishing a
relationship that will ensure there is peace and safety and
security for the populations in these areas,” Mbeki said.  Clashes between Sudanese government forces and units of
Southern Sudan’s army in Southern Kordofan, northern Sudan’s
only oil-producing state, has forced more than 73,000 people to
flee their homes since June 5, according to the  United Nations .  The fighting there and in the disputed border region of
 Abyei  has raised concern of a return to the two-decade civil war
in sub-Saharan  Africa ’s third-biggest oil producer that ended in
2005. Mbeki last week mediated an accord between the north and
south to withdraw their troops from Abyei and allow Ethiopian
peacekeepers to deploy in the area. Sudan’s army seized the main
town in Abyei on May 21.  Citizenship  Under the framework agreement reached today, Mbeki said the
two sides decided that northern soldiers in Southern Kordofan
and Blue Nile states who fought with the south during the civil
war would be citizens of the north.  Southern Kordofan borders the oil-rich states of Unity and
Upper Nile in  Southern Sudan , which will assume control of about
75 percent of Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000 barrels
when it becomes independent on July 9. The crude is pumped
mainly by  China National Petroleum Corp. , Malaysia’s Petroliam
Nasional Bhd and India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  The state accounts for about 115,000 barrels per day,
according to Sudan’s minister of state for oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  President Umar al-Bashir’s government in Khartoum accused
the Southern Sudanese army of starting the violence in both
Southern Kordofan and Abyei.  Authorities in Southern Sudan say the government is trying
to disarm northerners in Southern Kordofan, such as members of
the Nuba ethnic group, who fought with the south’s army. They
accuse al-Bashir’s government of attempting to militarily occupy
disputed border areas before the south’s independence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 