-- 
Norway Won’t Be Haven From Greek Default

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-06-28T07:33:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/norway-won-t-be-haven-from-greek-default-giske.html
Norway won’t be an investor haven
should  Greece  default as the world’s second-richest country per
capita will be sucked into the turmoil that would follow such a
 credit event , Trade Minister Trond Giske said.  “While most people see that the Norwegian krone can be
boosted by high  oil prices  and the strength of the Norwegian
economy, we are still very closely connected to the euro because
80 percent of our exports go to the European Union,” Giske said
in an interview in Oslo yesterday. “Things can’t go very badly
with  Europe  and very well in Norway.”  The krone has gained 5 percent against the euro since a
November low, as investors turned to the currency of the world’s
seventh-largest oil exporter as an alternative to the crisis-
stricken euro. Even though  Norway ’s banks hold little in the way
of Greek debt, according to the country’s financial regulator,
the fallout of a Greek default on banks in Germany and  France 
would pass through the whole region and hit even Europe’s
richest economies, Giske said.  The krone pared earlier gains to trade down 0.3 percent
against the euro at 7.8343 by 9:32 a.m., versus a 0.2 percent
gain before Giske’s comments.  Europe will remain at risk of descending into crises as
long as its leaders don’t address failures in the currency
bloc’s design, according to Giske.  Euro `Misconstruction'  “The euro is a misconstruction, I think we can all agree
on that,” he said. “You can’t have a monetary union without
having a fiscal union, you can’t have a common interest rate and
currency without at the same time having a common management of
the budgets. And when you get external shocks to a common
currency area that doesn’t have shock absorbers to handle it,
you’re in trouble.”  Greek lawmakers are due to vote on a five-year austerity
plan this week needed to get another loan payment from the
country’s 110 billion-euro ($157 billion) bailout. Failure to
pass the 78 billion-euro plan may lead to the euro area’s first
sovereign default. At the same time, European leaders and the
 European Central Bank  are discussing how to involve private
investors as part of a second rescue package.  “For the time being we’re pushing a lot of the problems in
front of us and solving the acute crises and liquidity problems
one period at a time,” Giske said. “We haven’t found any
fundamental solutions.”  Soros Verdict  Billionaire investor  George Soros  on June 26 said it’s
“probably inevitable” that a mechanism will be put in place to
allow weaker economies to exit the euro. The chairman of Soros
Fund Management LLC, which has about $28 billion in assets,
earlier this year expressed concern the currency union would
dissolve and urged European policy makers to address their two-
speed economy.  Norwegian banks have “insignificant” holdings in Greece
and limited capital placed in Ireland,  Portugal ,  Spain  and
 Italy , the country’s Financial Supervisory Authority said
yesterday.  The six largest banks hold less than 1.3 percent of their
managed capital in Greek, Irish, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish
assets, primarily in private companies and banks, it said. The
five largest insurance companies have 2.1 percent of their
capital invested in government debt of the five countries, it
estimates.  No Swiss Franc  Norway, which like  Switzerland  isn’t a member of the
European Union, will post a 12.5 percent budget surplus of gross
domestic product this year, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said in May. That compares with an
average deficit of 4.2 percent of GDP in the 17 countries
sharing the euro, the OECD said.  Norway’s mainland economy, which strips out the effect of
oil and shipping revenue, will grow 3.3 percent this year,
compared with euro-area expansion of 2 percent, the Paris-based
organization said last month.  “I don’t think the Norwegian krone and the Norwegian
economy is big enough to become a safe haven for the large
investors,” Giske said. “We’re not the Swiss Franc.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  