-- 
Obama News Conference Likely to Address Debt, Libya, Afghanistan

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-06-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/obama-schedules-white-house-news-conference-for-tomorrow-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  will hold a
news conference at 11:30 a.m. Washington time today as his
administration arrives at a critical juncture in negotiations
over the federal deficit and an increase in the debt ceiling.  Obama also likely will address his plan for withdrawing
U.S. forces from  Afghanistan , the attack by the Taliban on a
hotel in Kabul and the mission in  Libya . It will be the
president’s first solo news conference since March 11.  The president will appear in the East Room of the White
House one hour ahead of a speech at which his top
counterterrorism adviser,  John Brennan , is to present the
administration’s counterterrorism policy at Johns Hopkins
University’s Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International
Studies in Washington.  After weeks of talks led by Vice President  Joe Biden , Obama
has begun directly negotiating with congressional Republicans on
a plan to narrow the  budget deficit  as part of an agreement to
raise the government’s borrowing limit.  Obama met for more than an hour on June 27 with Senate
Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  and will meet with
Senate Democrats this afternoon.  The clock is ticking closer to Aug. 2 -- the date when, the
Treasury Department estimates, the U.S. risks a default on its
debt obligations unless Congress increases the $14.3 trillion
debt ceiling.  Debt Talks  White House officials and most Republicans are insisting
that they don’t want a short-term agreement, which would force
Congress to revisit the debt-ceiling issue later this year or
next year as the narrative in  Washington  shifts toward the 2012
presidential election.  Democrats also insist that significant revisions to
Medicare and Social Security are off the table.  On June 23, Obama announced his decision to withdraw 33,000
troops from Afghanistan by September 2012 so the U.S. can
“focus on nation-building at home” after almost 10 years of
war.  Obama’s plan would withdraw 10,000 troops before the end of
this year and an additional 23,000 -- the remainder of last
year’s troop surge -- by September 2012, as the presidential
election campaign kicks into high gear.  Troops in Afghanistan  The president in 2009 ordered deployment of the additional
forces to quell a growing Taliban insurgency, and he said last
night that the goals set out then largely have been
accomplished. Even with the withdrawals, the U.S. will have
roughly 68,000 troops in Afghanistan, about twice as many as
were there when Obama was elected in 2008. Also in the country
are more than 40,000 personnel from 48  other nations , which are
making plans to pull back as well.  War weariness has been reflected both in surveys that show
a growing desire among Americans for troops to be brought home
and in pressure from Congress, including from Obama’s fellow
Democrats.  A Bloomberg National Poll conducted June 17-20 found almost
one-third of Americans want an immediate withdrawal; 53 percent
support withdrawal over the next couple of years.  Illustrating the dangers faced in Afghanistan, the Taliban
claimed responsibility for an attack on the Intercontinental
Hotel in Kabul yesterday. Zabihullah Mujahed, a spokesman for
the Taliban guerrilla movement, said in a telephone interview
that the attack was timed for a meeting involving U.S., Afghan
and Pakistani officials, with the intent of killing them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  