-- 
Obama Turns to Alcoa as Backdrop for Manufacturing Message

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-06-28T18:57:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/obama-turns-to-alcoa-as-backdrop-for-emphasis-on-manufacturing.html
President  Barack Obama  said
manufacturing can lead the nation’s recovery from the recession
even as changes in technology and the global economy have
dislocated workers and forced companies to adapt.  At  Alcoa Inc. (AA) ’s Davenport Works plant in eastern Iowa,
which makes components for the next generation of jumbo jets,
Obama highlighted the technology success of a company that still
faces obstacles: slow global growth, high energy prices and a
weak domestic  construction industry .  “For better or for worse, our generation has seen more
than our fair share of economic change,” Obama told plant
workers and local officials in Riverdale, Iowa. Some of those
changes “have also caused a whole lot of pain.”  Obama said recovering from the deepest recession since the
1930s and adapting to new technology and tougher competition
will take time and government support for education and
research. “There’s no silver bullet to reverse a decade of
economic challenges,” he said.  Obama’s stop in  Iowa , a state that launched his bid for the
Democratic presidential nomination almost four years ago, marks
his fourth trip in the U.S. in a month to promote his economic
policies, this time in a state that will be crucial to his re-
election effort in 2012. Over the past four weeks, Obama has hit
 Ohio , Pennsylvania and  North Carolina , all swing states that he
won in 2008 and that his campaign is seeking to hold next year.  With the 2012 race likely to turn on voters’ economic
concerns, the Obama administration is looking for ways to help
U.S. manufacturing to compete globally and create jobs
domestically.  Growth Projections  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer and typically the
first company in  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to report its
quarterly earnings, is confronting the same forces that have
caused the  Federal Reserve  to lower its growth projections for
the  U.S. economy .  “The global slowdown and the uncertainty in what’s going
on in  Europe  is not going to help matters at Alcoa,” said Alan Lancz, president of the Alan B. Lancz & Associates investment
advisory firm in Toledo, Ohio.  “Alcoa is a good barometer,” he said. “If there’s a
slowdown or lesser expectations on consensus, that will bode
across the entire cyclical spectrum as far as global economic
growth goes.”  Disruptions  Manufacturing, which drove the recovery as growing overseas
economies propelled U.S. exports, has cooled in the aftermath of
 Japan ’s earthquake in March and as raw-material costs climbed.
The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index fell to 51.8
this month from 53.5 in May, according to the median estimate of
63 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Readings above 50
signal expansion.  Obama used today’s Alcoa visit to highlight the ability of
U.S. companies to compete globally. The Riverdale facility,
which opened in 1948, employs 2,000 people and generates about
25 percent of its revenue through exports, according to the
company’s  website . It is the hub of Alcoa’s $3 billion aerospace
business. Some of the alloys rolled in Davenport gird the wings
of the Airbus A380 and  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 777.  As his administration grapples with how to respond to a
national 9.1 percent unemployment rate, Obama has sought to put
a focus on the country’s manufacturing sector and what his
administration is doing to strengthen it.  Seeking a Boost  Earlier this month, at the Durham, North Carolina,
headquarters of Cree Inc., a manufacturer of energy-efficient
lighting, Obama hailed an initiative to train 10,000 engineers a
year. He endorsed a shorter-term goal of creating jobs in
construction by making buildings more energy efficient. Last
week in Pittsburgh, he announced a $500 million initiative to
join companies and universities in an effort to speed up
technology development. Alcoa will join that project, Obama said
today.  “This roadshow is about a lot more than Alcoa,” said
Stephen Massocca, managing director at Wedbush Securities in  San
Francisco . “It’s about trying to show concern for the fact that
we are looking at a whole host of indicators over the last few
months that have weakened when they should be strengthening.”  Alcoa employs 59,000 workers, down from 107,000 in December
2007, before the recession began. That reduction includes
divestitures and 21,545 job cuts, according to Bloomberg data.  Global Demand  The company’s first-quarter profits beat analysts’
estimates after aluminum prices advanced on improving global
demand for the metal. The company reiterated its forecast that
global aluminum demand will grow 12 percent this year.  Alcoa rose 27 cents to $15.54 at 2:23 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Shares have climbed 39 percent
in the 12 months ending yesterday.  Global aluminum output of 40.8 million tons last year
exceeded consumption by about 1 million tons, according to
Bloomberg data. Warehouses monitored by the London Metal
Exchange held 4.58 million tons of inventories as of today,
compared with an average of about 1.43 million in the past 10
years. There were 4.64 million tons on Jan. 21, 2010, the
highest since at least 1978.  The plant uses an alloy developed in Alcoa’s research and
development center in  Pennsylvania ,  Ron Bloom , Obama’s
manufacturing adviser, said in a briefing yesterday. The metal
is shaped in Iowa and finished in  Kansas  before it is “exported
all over the world,” Bloom said.  “You have a company that’s committed to innovation, that’s
committed to a highly skilled workforce, that’s committed to the
future,” he said in a conference call with reporters. “And
that’s exactly what we think can happen in manufacturing with a
partnership with government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  