-- 
Obama’s $7 Billion Renewable Energy Grants Targeted for Audits

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-06-28T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/obama-s-7-billion-renewable-energy-grants-targeted-for-audits.html
Government investigators are
auditing some of President Barack Obama’s more than $7 billion
in renewable energy grants to determine whether the money was
awarded properly and the recipients were eligible.  Examiners are reviewing 14 of the 2,600 projects that
received tax dollars under the initiative to promote wind and
solar power created in the 2009 stimulus bill, according to
Richard Delmar, counsel to the Treasury Department’s inspector
general. Under the program run by the Treasury, developers
receive as much as 30 percent of the cost of a project.  The audits by Eric Thorson, the Treasury’s inspector
general, aim to determine whether the department has
“established (and followed) appropriate procedures for awarding
the grants,” and whether developers meet eligibility
requirements, Delmar said in an e-mail.  He declined to identify projects under review. The office
expects to issue reports on five of the audits by the end of
September, and the remaining nine reports in 2012, he said.  The audits, which began in February 2010, involve visits to
the headquarters of companies that received grants and to
project sites, Delmar said. The last site visit was in February
of this year.  “We are looking at a sampling of the grants that have been
made,” Delmar said in an interview. “They’re all works in
progress.”  ‘Misleading Information’  The grant program “has helped dramatically expand and
accelerate renewable energy development across the country,
enabling companies to create and retain tens of thousands of
jobs,” Sandra Salstrom, a Treasury Department spokeswoman, said
in an e-mail. The program “requires applicants to provide
detailed descriptions and supporting documentation to ensure
that taxpayer funds are awarded appropriately.”  Because the grants are based on the cost of a project,
“there is no built-in encouragement for the developer to keep
costs as low as possible,” Lisa Linowes, executive director of
the  Industrial Wind Action Group , said in an interview. Her New
Hampshire-based organization says it counters “misleading
information” from wind-farm developers.  Kevin Walsh, managing director of renewable energy at GE
Energy Financial Services, a unit of  General Electric Co. (GE)  of
Fairfield,  Connecticut , said the Treasury Department is at times
faced with “differences of opinion” over the value of a
project, which is used to calculate grants.  The Treasury is “doing its job” in “looking at evidence
being given by applicants to ensure that it’s a reasonable fair-
market valuation,” said Walsh, who said he hadn’t been aware of
the inspector general’s inquiry.  ‘Bit of Gaming’  A developer attaching too high a valuation may be
committing fraud in certain cases, said Dave Llorens, chief
executive officer of  One Block Off The Grid , a solar developer
based in  San Francisco . Such cases have been flagged by the
Treasury Department, Llorens said.  “There’s been a little bit of gaming with it because some
greedy developers tried to inflate their costs,” Llorens said
in an interview. “You could sell a project for $7 a watt and
apply for a grant at $10 a watt. They slapped those down
though.”  Both GE and One Block Off the Grid have participated in
projects that received grants under the program. GE is a partner
in a $2 billion wind farm in  Oregon  that expects to apply for a
government grant, Walsh said.  The U.S. program has awarded grants for wind, solar,
geothermal, hydropower and biomass systems in 47 states, the
 District of Columbia  and  Puerto Rico .  Jobs Created  Horizon Wind Energy, a unit of EDP-Energias de Portugal SA,
received $276 million for four Indiana wind farms. The  Mad
Batter Restaurant  in  Cape May ,  New Jersey , a seaside resort,
used an $18,354 grant to install 38 rooftop solar panels.  “It was an enormous success,” Walsh of GE said.
“Projects got built which otherwise in my view would not have
been built.”  The grants were authorized in the American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act of 2009, which directed the Treasury to provide
funding to qualified projects. There is no cap on the amount
that can be awarded. Obama signed the measure into law on
February 17, 2009.  Obama’s administration has invested more than $90 billion
in clean energy, a commitment that has “created or saved
hundreds of thousands of jobs across the country,” according to
the White House website.  Team of Four  Six months after Obama signed the stimulus measure, the
inspector general said managers at the Treasury Department had
failed to explain what staffing would be needed to evaluate
“the potentially thousands of applications of varying
complexity for awards under this program,” according to an Aug.
5, 2009,  report .  The Treasury Department responded that “the current team
of four is adequate,” according to the inspector general’s
report.  The incentives began under President  George W. Bush  as a
tax credit companies could use to offset profit by investing in
renewable energy projects.  Concerned that the 2008 financial crisis “dried up”
company profits and opportunities to use the tax credit, the
Obama administration engineered its transition into a grant,
said Paul Dickerson, head of Haynes & Boone LLP’s clean-
technology group in Houston and former chief operating officer
of the Energy Department’s office of  energy efficiency  and
renewable energy.  Trying to Cheat  The grant program is worth continuing even if some
developers try to cheat, Dickerson said. Grant applicants for
projects of more than $1 million must submit an independent
accountant’s certification of costs, he said.  “It’s like people who cheat on their taxes,” Dickerson
said in an interview. “If someone is inflating their projects’
costs or somehow getting an independent accountant to falsely
attest to the accuracy of those costs, well then we just get to
send them to prison.”  The grant program, which was to expire at the end of 2010,
is likely to end after an extension through the end of this
year, according to Dita Bronicki, chief executive officer of
geothermal energy developer  Ormat Technologies Inc. (ORA)  of Reno,
 Nevada .  “The political climate in  Washington  makes it very
unlikely the grants will continue past this year,” Bronicki
said in an interview. “We will have to find other ways to
finance projects that don’t make the deadline.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  