-- 
Obama Needs to Get ’Caught Trying’ on Job Creation: Ron Klain

-- B y   R o n   K l a i n
-- 
2011-06-28T04:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/obama-needs-to-get-caught-trying-on-job-creation-ron-klain.html
For two years, polls have shown that
the American people have two strongly held beliefs. First, they
think the president should do more to create jobs. Second, they
believe federal spending should be cut, and the government
should shrink.  To the progressive economists who form the cadre of
President Barack Obama’s advisers -- and indeed, to most
mainstream economists -- these two views are mutually
contradictory. In the classical Keynesian playbook, the way the
federal government can create more jobs is by spending more:
investing in public works projects, providing fiscal aid to
state and local governments, sending stimulus checks to
taxpayers, and even just hiring people directly. Demands that
the government spur job creation while also reducing spending
are, in this view, as unrealistic as the Pharaoh’s punitive
directive to his slaves to “make  bricks  without straw.”  How and why the public soured on Keynesian economics is a
topic that we’ll be debating for a generation. What is beyond
debate, however, is that for the past two years (including the
final year of Democratic control of the U.S. House), traditional
stimulative policies to create jobs have lacked support among
the public and the majority in Congress. Indeed, in  Washington 
today, the debate isn’t about how much more the government
should be spending to create jobs, but rather how deeply federal
spending should be cut to reduce the deficit.  2010 Tax Cuts  As a result, the administration has been stymied in its
attempts to put forth an aggressive  job-creation  initiative. In
late 2010, as part of the legislative compromise that extended
the George W. Bush-era tax cuts, the administration won
congressional approval of a $120 billion payroll tax cut
designed to help spur employment. That was a positive measure,
to be sure, but it must be frustrating to a progressive
administration that the only job-creation idea that has gained
traction is a tax cut.  Put another way: If voters come to believe that the sole
way the federal government can create jobs is by cutting taxes,
that doesn’t bode well for the future of progressive governance
or progressive candidates.  Hence, as a political and economic matter, it is vital that
the administration put forward a comprehensive, multifaceted job
strategy -- one that is defined more by its creativity and
pragmatism, and less by a large price tag or Keynesian logic. It
needs to overcome the policy gridlock that the anti-spending
impulse has created in White House policy councils related to
job creation, and propose measures (beyond more tax cuts), even
if they have some cost.  Shelving Pride  This means the administration needs to get past its
justifiable pride in the measures enacted in the first two
years, and overcome any inertia created by the belief that these
policies will produce results over time.  For it isn’t the  unemployment rate  itself that creates
political risk for the president’s 2012 re-election effort.
Voters know that turning things around takes time. Americans
also sense that some fundamental changes are taking place in our
economy that make a return to stable and robust employment
difficult to achieve.  The greatest risk to the president will be if the American
people believe the administration isn’t trying hard enough to
tackle the jobs problem. That is why it is imperative for the
administration to do more -- proposing new ideas, initiatives
and job-creation programs -- and without delay. It may not
succeed, but it must get “caught trying” to do more to spur job
creation.  Array of Proposals  The good news is that there is an array of ideas for the
administration to draw from in devising a job-creation plan.
Former President  Bill Clinton  has offered his own 14 point
proposal in a recent issue of  Newsweek ; it includes more
investment in green power, painting black rooftops white (to put
people to work and conserve energy), and new job training
initiatives.  The policy journal Democracy  recently published  a set of
job-creating ideas, from commercializing federally financed
research, to immigration law reform, to creating
“entrepreneurship clusters” in targeted regions. The
administration, led by National Economic Council Director  Gene Sperling , has policy innovators who doubtless have their own
ideas -- and can rely on outside groups and advisory panels for
suggestions.  Presidential Initiative  What’s needed is not so much new thinking but a decision by
the White House to package those proposals in a presidential
initiative on job creation, one that can then be championed in
the face of congressional resistance and public anxiety over
spending.  In doing so, the administration shouldn’t be shy about
price tags: Spending on policies that obviously and directly
create jobs will garner support, even in these budget-conscious
times. But at the same time, the administration shouldn’t fall
into the political trap of equating more spending per se with
more job creation. And some ideas that are favorites with policy
wonks (even when they are effective job creators), like more
state and local fiscal relief, shouldn’t be part of the
administration’s package because they are political nonstarters.  The president should put forward a half-dozen job-creation
ideas in July, and call on Congress to come back early from its
August recess to give these proposals up-or-down votes before
Labor Day. Then, he could propose a half-dozen more, and demand
votes on those before Congress finishes its session this year.
The administration may lose some of these votes; and ideas that
win approval by Congress in fall or winter of 2011 may have
limited impact on the employment rolls before Election Day 2012,
but the American people will be grateful for the president’s
determination.  ( Ron Klain  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 rklain@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 