-- 
Obama Serves Lobster Not Justice to ’Fat Cats’: William D. Cohan

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 
2011-06-28T04:01:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/obama-serves-lobster-not-justice-to-fat-cats-william-d-cohan.html
As we head into the 2012
presidential election cycle, the new, official Obama
administration policy on Wall Street is crystalline: Hands off
the bad guys.  Consider what  Sheila Bair , the outgoing chairman of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., said at a Council on Foreign
Relations  event  on June 9 about whether Wall Street bank
executives should be held accountable for the criminal
negligence that led to the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression.  “I think a lot people were looking the other way when they
shouldn’t have,” Bair said. “Again, where it transcends to the
place of just not doing your job and to actually knowing about
it and aiding it, I think that’s clearly criminal behavior and
people should go to jail.”  So far so good. But Bair immediately made clear that she
wasn’t accusing any  Wall Street  big shots of doing anything
wrong: “It’s not clear that higher up that was the case. But I
think that’s what  law enforcement  should figure out.”  Unfortunately, law enforcement is getting nowhere on
figuring it out. Preet Bharara, the U.S. attorney in the
Southern District of  New York ,  recently explained  to George Packer of the  New Yorker  why he had not yet indicted any high-
level bankers. “If the well is dry,” he said, “a thousand more
people aren’t going to get you water in that well.”  An Offended Prosecutor  He then took offense to the criticism his office has
received. “It bothers me a little bit when people suggest,
without knowing anything, that we’re not even bothering to
look,” he said. “Where there’s smoke, we take a look. Do you
have any idea how much people want to bring the case if it
exists? So what could be the reason we haven’t? Sometimes people
say, ‘It’s because you’re beholden to these guys,’ which doesn’t
make any sense. Do we look like we’re afraid to prosecute
anyone?”  And yet the only prosecutions we see are tiny fish like
Fabrice Tourre of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and hedge-fund honcho
Raj Rajaratnam, who was a slimy inside-trader but had nothing to
do with causing the economic meltdown.  Well, if the justice system seems stymied, at least we can
expect President  Barack Obama , who in 2009 referred to Wall
Streeters as “fat cat” bankers, to lead the charge. Indeed, last
week he went into the lair of the Masters of the Universe and
sent them the strongest possible message: He asked them to pony
up $35,800 a head for his re-election campaign and to have
dinner with him at  Daniel , the French restaurant on Park Avenue.  How lovely. About 70 cats got fatter that night -- on
lobster, roasted local beets, Kobe beef -- and the president
raised $2.4 million for his coffers.  A Soft Settlement  Just in case the message that all is forgiven wasn’t clear
enough, last week also saw a settlement of the Securities and
Exchange Commission’s mortgage-backed securities case against
JPMorgan Chase & Co. In exchange for a get-out-of-jail-free
card, JPMorgan paid the SEC $154 million to settle claims that
it -- like Goldman Sachs in the Abacus 2007-AC1  case  -- had
misled investors about the risks inherent in a collateralized
debt obligation it was manufacturing and selling as the housing
bubble was popping.  Just Move On  Why the SEC squeezed $550 million out of Goldman and
JPMorgan got off with paying less than a third as much for
virtually the same behavior is a legitimate mystery. What we do
know is that we all get to move on, as  Jamie Dimon , the JPMorgan
chief executive officer, has long asked us to.  The continuing free passes are immensely frustrating,
especially when the evidence continues to pile up that lots of
people at these firms knew very well as 2007 progressed that
they were packaging lousy mortgages and selling them at par to
investors. For instance, the SEC’s  complaint  against JPMorgan
included an e-mail sent on Feb. 13, 2007, by a “salesperson” in
JPMorgan’s investment bank who was working with  Magnetar
Capital , the hedge fund looking to short Squared, the synthetic
CDO in question. “We all know,” the salesperson wrote, that
Magnetar “wants to print as many deals as possible before
everything completely falls apart.”  A Pregnant Deal  As the market began to crack, JPMorgan pushed potential
investors very hard to buy Squared. On March 19, one employee
wrote to the European sales force that “we really need your help
on this one. This is a top priority from the top of the bank all
the way down.” Three days later, another member of the deal team
tried again to get the sales team hyped. “We are soooo pregnant
with this deal, we need a wheel-barrel to move around,” she
wrote in an e-mail. “Let’s schedule the cesarian, please!”  Needless to say, similar e-mails have been found in the
files of bankers and traders along Wall Street and at the credit
rating services, such as Moody’s and  Standard & Poor’s . Are we
really expected to believe that such widespread questionable
practices flourished without any of the corner-office folk
knowing about it?  Make no mistake, Sheila Bair: those “higher up” on Wall
Street knew very well what their firms were doing and simply
chose to ignore it. After all, there was money to be made.
(JPMorgan got paid $18.9 million to slap together Squared, and
Goldman got paid $15 million for Abacus.) If that isn’t enough
to make you lose your lunch -- although not, of course, a
$35,800 dinner -- then the fact that Wall Street is going to get
away with it all surely will.  (William D. Cohan is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
 wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 