-- 
OCP Ecuador Plans Pipeline Extension to Gather Colombian Oil, CEO Says

-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 
2011-06-28T18:33:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/ocp-ecuador-plans-pipeline-extension-for-colombia-s-crude-oil-ceo-says.html
Oleoducto de Crudos Pesados  Ecuador 
SA, operator of the nation’s heavy crude pipeline, plans to
extend its operations into  Colombia  as production ramps up,
Chief Executive Officer Andres Mendizabal said.  The closely held company, known as OCP, is in talks with at
least four Colombian oil producers to connect its Ecuadorean
pipeline to their fields and may begin transporting Colombian
oil to the port of Esmeraldas by next year, Mendizabal said
yesterday in an interview. OCP is also studying the construction
of a 700-kilometer (435-mile) pipeline to run from eastern
Bogota to Lago Agrio, Ecuador, he said.  OCP, which operates at about 27 percent capacity, is
seeking to boost transport levels after seeing pipeline volumes
decline 29 percent since 2004, Mendizabal said. The company
expects expansion into Colombia and increases from private oil
producers in Ecuador, including  Spain ’s largest oil driller
 Repsol YPF SA (REP) , will help curb the declines, he said.  “Colombia has the opposite problem from Ecuador, it has
more production than they can transport,” Mendizabal, a 40-
year-old industrial engineer, said from his offices in Quito.
“There’s a large amount of oil that can’t even be moved and the
possibility exists that OCP can be used for that.”  Colombia is seeing a boom in energy investment as the
country works to increase oil production to 2 million barrels a
day by 2020, up from 923,000 currently.  The pipeline from Bogota would cost $2 billion and take
four years to build, Mendizabal said. It would “require large
investments from the Colombian side,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in  Quito  at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  