-- 
Oil Hopes Stoke Falklands Shift Away From Loyal Shrine to U.K.

-- B y   M i c h a e l   L u o n g o
-- 
2011-06-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/oil-hopes-stoke-falklands-shift-away-from-loyal-shrine-to-england-travel.html
About 8,000 miles from  London , a
portrait of Queen Elizabeth II stares from the wall of the
Falkland Islands Legislative Assembly. Yet there’s a growing
question about how long the Union Jack will fly as oil
exploration stirs up visions of wealth and independence among a
shifting population.  The pervasive British presence in the Falkland Islands, an
archipelago off the southern tip of  Argentina , reflects a
history of U.K. rule since 1833, bolstered by a surge in
patriotism and a homestead movement after the failed 1982
Argentine invasion. About 90 percent of the 2,500 inhabitants
claim birth in Britain or descent from Britons.  Legislative Assemblywoman Jan Cheek, whose family goes back
to 1842 on the islands, said her grandmother never left the
Falklands and “she still called the U.K. home.”  Cheek sees a new identity forming, however. “I think we’ve
reached the stage now where I’m definitely a Falkland Islander
first and British second,” she said.  I came to the Falklands mostly for its famous wildlife,
spread across two main islands, East and West Falkland, and 778
smaller islands in an area roughly the size of  Connecticut .
Still, I found the reasons why people moved here just as
fascinating -- and increasingly in recent years those people
aren’t Britons.  Pauline Hayward, owner of the  Woodbine Cafe , came from
Yorkshire in 1983 because she saw a need she could fill: “I was
reading in the newspaper one day and they were just saying how
they haven’t got a fish-and-chips shop in the Falklands. So I
came. I’m just adventurous I guess.”  The cafe was a simple place, with a strong smell of fish
and grease. There were just a few chairs and tables, a backwards
clock on the wall that kept confusing me, and a long line of
customers who kept breaking into my chat with Hayward.  ‘Most British Pub’  At night, loud young men and women spill from Globe Tavern.
Around the corner, the Victory Bar flies St. George flags.
Opened in 1946, it has been owned since 1984 by native Ally
Jacobson and his wife, Cathy, originally from Southampton, U.K.
She lifted a pint, proclaiming Victory “the most British pub in
the Falkland Islands.”  Still, oil worker Pete Taylor of Aberdeen,  Scotland , sees
the capital city of Stanley “changing and expanding.” Falkland
Oil & Gas Ltd. announced recently that it planned to run tests
in an area “with estimated reserves of 4.7 billion barrels,”
according to a June 9  report  of the South Atlantic News Agency.  I met Taylor, who works on an exploratory offshore oil rig,
at the  Malvina  House Hotel, which recently doubled in size
largely to accommodate oil workers.  ‘Only English Person’  Chef Matt Clarke of Surrey oversees the kitchen and
proclaims, “I am the only English person in the hotel.” His
wife, Canadian Jasper Gottschalk, manages the restaurant, a
space adorned with Victorian cast-iron columns and an enormous
window overlooking the harbor. Almost her entire staff is
Chilean.  There are more Chileans at the Falklands Brasserie, owned
by Santiago native Alex Olmedo. He arrived in 1990, when “there
were only 10 Chileans.” Now, almost 250 Chileans live here,
accounting for 10 percent of the population and making Spanish
the second language.  New Zealander Paul Trowell, general manager of the  Falkland
Islands Tourist Board , said that with the islands so close to
 South America , Chileans are “a really good fit for here. It
brings cultural diversity to the country.”  ‘The New Force’  Yet Trowell feels the biggest change goes beyond
demographics. Tourism to the Falklands is rising, but hotel and
apartment rental expansion is really about oil, increasing the
cost of and strain on accommodation. “That’s what happens when
oil is the new force in the town,” he said.  The Falkland Islands economy is almost self-sufficient
thanks to commercial fishing-license fees. The revenue makes up
the major part of the annual 45.5 million pound budget.  One bill that isn’t covered locally is security, seen
partly in the 1,400 soldiers stationed on the Falklands military
base of Mount Pleasant. The motherland pays, but that could
change with major oil discoveries.  Phyl Rendell, the director of  mineral resources  for the
islands, says there is “really good progress, but no guarantees
that we’re going to get to have a production phase where we’re
going to have large sums of money coming in.”  Rendell, a Falklands native, said, “We’ve been paying our
own way, we’ve been doing that since the fishery was declared
back in 1987, so we’ve got control of our economy and how we
develop it. We’re not beholden to Britain.”  ‘British Second’  Conscious of the sovereign in her own office smiling down
on her, Rendell added, “We’re very patriotic toward the Queen.”
But what the 85-year-old monarch represented is changing.  “People are very proud to be Falkland Islanders,” Rendell
said, then echoed the Assemblywoman Cheek. “If you ask a
Falkland Islander who are you, they will say a Falkland Islander
first and British second.”  With oil-exploration maps lying on a table between us, a
look of determination came into Rendell’s face as she said, “If
we could also pay for defense, that would be, you know,
fantastic. That would also be a real bonus.”  That brought up an awkward question: If oil paid for
defense, could the Falklands stop relying on Britain altogether?  “It’s certainly the direction we intend going,” Rendell
said, adding, “Oil revenue would help us to do that, to buy our
independence.”  (Michael Luongo writes on travel for Muse, the arts and
culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Michael Luongo at  mtluongo@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Manuela
Hoelterhoff at   mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 