-- 
Crude Oil in New York Rises From Near Four-Month Low; Brent Premium Widens

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-06-28T13:00:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/oil-in-new-york-rebounds-from-near-four-month-low-brent-premium-widens.html
Oil extended gains in  New York  on
speculation U.S. fuel demand will increase and as OPEC clashed
with the  International Energy Agency  about the need for more
oil. Brent crude’s premium to New York oil widened.  Crude climbed as much as 1.7 percent after trading near its
lowest price in more than four months before a report today that
may show a rebound in consumer confidence in the U.S. The price
spread between Brent and New York-trade West Texas Intermediate
widened, as half of the IEA-administered emergency oil-stock
release will be in the U.S. The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries’ secretary-general and the group’s president
said separately yesterday there was no need for IEA action.  “Sooner or later we had to see a rebound, and oil will
remain volatile in the short-term because of the disagreements
between the IEA and OPEC about market fundamentals,” said Andy Sommer, a senior analyst at EGL AG in Dietikon,  Switzerland .
“The Brent-WTI spread is widening because a large part of the
IEA stock release will be from the U.S.,” depressing WTI
prices, he said.  Crude for August delivery rose as much as $1.58 cents to
$92.19 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $92.10 at 1:33 p.m. London time. Yesterday,
the contract fell 0.6 percent to $90.61, the lowest settlement
since Feb. 18. Futures have gained 16 percent in the past year.  Brent Backwardation  Brent oil for August settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange climbed as much as $2.25, or 2.1
percent, to $108.24 a barrel. The European benchmark contract
was at a premium of $16.07 to WTI. On June 15, the difference
between front-month contracts reached a record $22.29.  BNP Paribas SA said investors could benefit from betting
that near-term Brent crude futures will revert to a premium over
longer-dated contracts as the effect of the IEA’s stockpile
release wears off.  Brent futures may return to backwardation, a structure in
which prompt prices are higher than later contracts, the Paris-
based bank’s analysts, led by  Harry Tchilinguirian , said in a
report yesterday. The IEA’s plan to sell about 2 million barrels
a day of oil over 30 days will be insufficient to make up for
supply disruption in  Libya , the bank said.  Crude in New York fell 4.6 percent on June 23, the most in
six weeks, after the IEA said it will release 60 million barrels
in emergency reserves. OPEC Secretary General Abdalla El-Badri
and President  Mohammad Aliabadi  said in Vienna yesterday there’s
no need for such action.  Partial Draw  It is “highly doubtful” that all the stocks will be
drawn, partly because of sufficient supplies of gasoline and
fuel oil, according to a report by JBC Energy GmbH. From 50 to
60 percent of the release will be realized, the report said.  The Conference Board’s index of U.S.  consumer confidence 
will climb to 61 in June from 60.8 in May, which was the lowest
in half a year, according to the median estimate of 69
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The report is scheduled
for release at 10 a.m. in New York.  U.S. crude inventories fell as refiners boosted gasoline
output before the Fourth of July holiday, according to the
median estimate of 10 analysts polled before an Energy
Department report tomorrow. Supplies dropped 1.5 million
barrels, or 0.4 percent, to 362.3 million in the seven days
ended June 24. The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute 
will report its own data today.  Fibonacci Retracement  Crude also rose after prices held above a long-term support
level on weekly technical charts. Futures in the past two
sessions traded below $89.84 a barrel before settling higher.
That’s the 50 percent Fibonacci retracement of the drop to
$32.40 in December 2008 from an all-time high of $147.27 in July
that year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A breach of
technical support usually means prices will continue to fall.  “Ninety dollars seems to be quite firm support,” said
 Tetsu Emori , a commodity-fund manager at Astmax Ltd. in  Tokyo .
“Current fundamentals make selling below $90 too risky.”  A low-pressure weather system in the Bay of Campeche has a
50 percent chance of becoming the Atlantic’s first named storm
this year, according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center in
Miami. The hurricane season runs from June 1 to Nov. 30.  Oil is headed for the first quarterly drop in a year on
speculation global economic growth will slow and damp fuel
demand. New York futures are down 15 percent since March 31 and
Brent has lost 9.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at   adaya1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  