-- 
Oil Rises Most in Almost Six Weeks on Greek Vote, U.S. Fuel Demand Outlook

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-06-28T21:00:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/oil-rallies-from-a-four-month-low-on-outlook-for-greek-vote-fuel-demand.html
Oil rose the most in almost six
weeks amid speculation that Greek lawmakers will approve
austerity measures to prevent a debt default and on forecasts
U.S. fuel demand will rise before the Fourth of July holiday.  Crude increased 2.5 percent as the euro strengthened before
the Greek vote tomorrow that would prevent the zone’s first
sovereign debt default. U.S. motorists’ peak fuel use typically
occurs during the holiday. Oil extended gains after the National
Hurricane Center said a weather system in Mexico’s Bay of
Campeche might become a tropical depression.  “The euro has been strong and there’s a likelihood there’s
going to be an austerity measure passed in  Greece ,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFG Best in  Chicago . “Then
we popped on the storm upgrade.”  Crude for August delivery advanced $2.28 to settle at
$92.89 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices
settled yesterday at the lowest level since Feb. 18. Futures
have gained 19 percent in the past year and fallen 13 percent in
the second quarter.  Prices advanced from the settlement after the  American
Petroleum Institute  reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude-oil
stockpiles slipped 2.7 million barrels to 360.3 million. August
oil gained $2.51, or 2.8 percent, to $93.12 a barrel in
electronic trading at 4:31 p.m.  Brent oil for August settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange climbed $2.79, or 2.6 percent, to
$108.78 a barrel. The European benchmark was at a premium of
$15.89 to West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark grade. The
spread reached a record $22.29 a barrel on June 15.  The euro rose 0.6 percent to $1.4367 in  New York . It has
increased 1.3 percent in the past two days before the Greek
vote. A euro advancing against the dollar boosts the appeal of
commodities as an alternative investment.  ‘Great Hope’  “There’s great hope that this plan for Greek debt will
help turn the corner,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market
strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis .
“It’s optimism that the Greeks aren’t going to default and the
euro is not going to break up.”  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou’s 78 billion-euro
($111 billion) plan to cut spending and sell assets is set for a
vote in parliament tomorrow. German and French lenders are the
biggest European holders of Greek debt and their participation
in the plan is key to the European Union goal of getting banks
to roll over at least 30 billion euros of bonds.  Germany ’s biggest banks and insurers will meet with the
 Finance Ministry  in Berlin tomorrow as they seek to reach an
agreement on their contribution to a Greek aid package, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  U.S. Fuel Demand  Total products supplied in the U.S., a measure of fuel
consumption, rose 1.2 percent to 19 million barrels a day in the
seven days to June 17, the Energy Department said last week.  “There’s solid demand coming through for gasoline aided by
the fall we’ve seen in the retail price ahead of the holiday,”
said  Matt Smith , a commodities analyst for Summit Energy
Services in Louisville,  Kentucky .  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, declined
1.4 cents to $3.551 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data on
its website. The price was 11 percent below its peak of $3.985
on May 4, the highest level since July 24, 2008.  U.S. crude inventories probably fell 1.5 million barrels in
the seven days to June 24 as refiners boosted gasoline output
before the Fourth of July holiday, according to the median
estimate of 12 analysts polled before an Energy Department
report tomorrow. Supplies dropped 0.4 percent to 362.3 million
last week, the survey showed.  Storm Forecast  A low-pressure system in the eastern Bay of Campeche has a
90 percent chance of developing into a tropical depression
within 48 hours, according to a special bulletin from the U.S.
National Hurricane Center in Miami at 4 p.m. New York time.  Petroleos Mexicanos ,  Mexico ’s state-owned oil company and
Latin America’s largest crude producer, has wells in the bay.
Mexico is the second-largest oil exporter to the U.S. and
provided 1.19 million barrels a day in March, the latest month
for which U.S. Energy Department figures are available.  Oil prices  erased almost half their decline since the
 International Energy Agency  announced June 23 that its members
would release 60 million barrels in emergency reserves to make
up for Libyan shortfalls and curb high prices. Prices tumbled
4.6 percent in New York following the announcement.  “If I’m bearish at this point, I have to be concerned that
we’re seeing very little follow-through to last week’s news,”
said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc. in
Villanova,  Pennsylvania , said on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg -
- The First Word” with Ken Prewitt.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 516,611
contracts as of 2:56 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 516,490
contracts yesterday, 23 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.5 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 