-- 
Oilseed, Grain Prices are Nearing the ‘Bottom,’ Oil World Says

-- B y   S h a r o n   L i n d o r e s
-- 
2011-06-28T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/oilseed-grain-prices-are-nearing-the-bottom-oil-world-says.html
Prices for most grains and oilseeds
are probably near “the bottom,” according to Hamburg-based
analyst Oil World.  Corn and rapeseed have bullish fundamentals, Oil World said
today in a weekly report, adding that buyers are beginning to
take advantage of low corn prices. Soybean price weakness may
also be shortlived if hot and dry weather forecast for the U.S.
Midwest in July leads to “crop-scare rallies,” the analyst
added. Corn futures touched a three-month low of $6.20 a bushel
on June 23. Soybean futures declined the past three weeks.  The canola, or rapeseed, harvest in  Canada  may come in
below forecasts of 8 million hectares (19.8 million acres) made
at the end of March before severe flooding hit plantings, Oil
World said. Rapeseed in the European Union only partially
benefited from rainfall this month and wet weather forecast for
Ukraine may damage the crop there, the analyst said.  “Overall, the European rapeseed sector will have to cope
with short supplies in 2011-12 and this will probably soon be
reflected in a price recovery,” Oil World said.  Demand for  palm oil  is rising as buyers prepare for the
Muslim fasting month of Ramadan, which starts around the
beginning of August, Oil World said. Supplies are tight in
 Indonesia  and import demand in  India  is expected to grow in the
near- to medium-term due to depleted stocks and declining
production.  Speculators reduced their net-long position in 11 U.S. farm
goods by 12 percent to 674,396 futures and options contracts in
the week ended June 21, according to data from the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
biggest drop since mid-March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Lindores in London at 
 slindores@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  