-- 
Home Prices in 20 U.S. Cities Probably Declined in April From Year Earlier

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-06-28T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/home-prices-in-20-u-s-cities-probably-declined-in-april-from-year-earlier.html
Home prices  probably decreased in
April, showing the housing market remains an obstacle for the
U.S. recovery, economists said before a report today.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 4 percent from April 2010, the biggest year-over-year drop
since November 2009, according to the median forecast of 30
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Other data may show
consumer confidence held near a six-month low.  A backlog of foreclosures and falling sales indicate prices
may decline further, discouraging builders from taking on new
projects. The drop in property values and a jobless rate
hovering around 9 percent are holding back consumer sentiment
and spending, which accounts for 70 percent of the economy.  “Home prices remain incredibly bogged down by foreclosures
and weak demand,” said Sean Incremona, a senior economist at
4Cast Inc. in  New York . “The picture is unlikely to change much
this year. Declining home prices and high unemployment are bad
for confidence.”  The S&P/Case-Shiller index, based on a three-month average,
is due at 9 a.m. New York time. Survey estimates ranged from
declines of 4.9 percent to 3.5 percent. Values fell 3.6 percent
in the 12 months to March.  The New York-based Conference Board’s  consumer confidence 
gauge, due at 10 a.m., rose to 61 from 60.8 in May, according to
the Bloomberg survey median. Estimates ranged from 55 to 66.7.  Fuel Costs  Some of the improvement probably reflects a drop in fuel
costs. The average price of a gallon of regular gasoline fell to
$3.57 on June 26, down from a May 4 price of $3.99 that was the
highest in almost three years, according to AAA, the nation’s
largest auto club.  The projected rise in confidence contrasts with other
surveys in which Americans’ moods dimmed. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort index dropped in the week ended June 19, the first
decline in five weeks, and the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan sentiment gauge fell more than forecast this month.  The Case-Shiller report may show home prices fell 0.2
percent in April from the prior month after adjusting for
seasonal variations, the 10th straight decrease, according to
the Bloomberg survey.  The year-over-year gauges provide better indications of
trends in prices, the group has said. The panel includes  Karl
Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the index.  Shiller told a conference in New York this month that a
further decline in property values of 10 percent to 25 percent
in the next five years “wouldn’t surprise me at all.”  Fewer Sales  Reports earlier this month showed the housing market is yet
to gain momentum. Sales of previously owned homes, which
comprise about 94 percent of the market, were down 3.8 percent
last month from April, the National Association of Realtors
said.  Purchases of new houses dropped 2.1 percent in May, the
first decline in three months, according to Commerce Department
data. Competition from foreclosed homes is hurting demand for
newly built dwellings.  The 1.8 million-unit inventory of distressed homes
nationwide that may reach the market would take about three
years to sell at the current pace,  Daren Blomquist ,
communications manager at RealtyTrac Inc., said this month.  As house prices decline, owners feel less wealthy and home
equity shrinks, making borrowing more difficult.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding index
lost 4.4 percent as of June 27 from the end of April, less than
a 6.1 percent drop in the broader S&P 500 gauge, which was
weighed down largely by concern about the European debt crisis.  Builder Outlook  Some developers expect demand to stabilize following a poor
selling season.  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the third-largest U.S. homebuilder
by revenue, last week said second-quarter sales fell from a year
earlier and home orders were little changed, while the average
price climbed. The 2010 orders were boosted by a federal tax
credit for homebuyers that required contracts be signed by April
30.  “While it’s now well documented that the expected spring
selling season of 2011 simply did not materialize, it is
beginning to feel like the worst days of the housing market are
getting behind us,” Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Miller  said
during a conference call with analysts on June 23.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  