-- 
Home Prices in 20 U.S. Cities Fall by Most in 17 Months, Case-Shiller Says

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-06-28T13:48:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/home-prices-in-u-s-cities-decreased-4-in-april-from-year-ago.html
Home prices  decreased in the year
ended April by the most in 17 months, showing the housing market
remains an obstacle for the U.S. recovery.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 4 percent from April 2010, the biggest drop since November
2009, the group said today in  New York . From March to April,
prices fell 0.1 percent on a seasonally adjusted basis, the
smallest decline since July 2010.  A backlog of foreclosures and falling sales raise the risk
that prices will decline further, discouraging builders from
taking on new projects. The drop in property values and a
jobless rate hovering around 9 percent are holding back consumer
sentiment and spending, which accounts for 70 percent of the
economy.  “Home prices are still easing but the declines are not
dramatic any more,” said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist at
Unicredit Group in New York, who correctly predicted the year-
over-year drop. While month to month changes show “prices have
basically bottomed and are moving sideways,” he said “we’re a
long way away from significant increases in  house prices .”  Consumer confidence  unexpectedly fell in June to a seven-
month low, indicating that slowing employment gains are weighing
on Americans’ outlooks, another report today showed. The
Conference Board’s index decreased to 58.5 from a revised 61.7
reading in May that was higher than previously estimated. The
percent of respondents expecting an increase in job availability
fell to the lowest in 11 months.  Shares Rise  Stocks held earlier gains after the report amid optimism
that a deal can be reached to help  Greece  avoid defaulting on
its debt. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.6 percent to
1,288.35 at 9:45 a.m. in New York.  Treasury securities  fell,
pushing the yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 2.95
percent from 2.93 percent late yesterday.  The decrease matched the median forecast of 30 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Estimates ranged from declines of
4.9 percent to 3.5 percent. The year-over-year drop in March was
revised to 3.8 percent from a previously reported 3.6 percent
decline.  Before adjusting for seasonal variations, prices climbed
0.7 percent from March, today’s report showed.  The year-over-year gauge provides better indications of
trends in prices, the group has said. The panel includes  Karl
Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the index.  Shiller’s Outlook  Shiller told a conference in New York this month that a
further decline in property values of 10 percent to 25 percent
in the next five years “wouldn’t surprise me at all.”  The Case-Shiller gauge is based on a three-month average,
which means the April data was influenced by transactions in
March and February.  “This month is better than last,”  David Blitzer , chairman
of the index committee at S&P, said in a statement. “However,
the seasonally adjusted numbers show that much of the
improvement reflects the beginning of the spring-summer home
buying season. It is much too early to tell if this is a turning
point or simply due to some warmer weather.”  Nineteen of the 20 cities in the index showed a year-over-
year decline, led by an 11 percent drop in  Minneapolis .  Washington  showed the only increase, up 4 percent from
April 2010.  New Lows  Six cities registered new post 2006-2007 lows, an
improvement from the 12 areas in March. Prices in three regions,
including  Cleveland ,  Detroit  and  Las Vegas , dropped to the
lowest level in 11 years.  Compared with the prior month, 13 of the 20 areas covered
showed a increase on an unadjusted basis, led by Washington.  Reports earlier this month showed the housing market is yet
to gain momentum. Sales of previously owned homes, which
comprise about 94 percent of the housing market, were down 3.8
percent last month from April, the National Association of
Realtors said.  Purchases of new houses dropped 2.1 percent in May, the
first decline in three months, according to Commerce Department
data. Competition from foreclosed homes is hurting demand for
newly built dwellings.  The 1.8 million of inventory of distressed homes nationwide
that may reach the market would take about three years to sell
at the current pace,  Daren Blomquist , communications manager at
RealtyTrac Inc., said this month.  Consumer Constraint  As house prices decline, owners feel less wealthy and home
equity shrinks, making borrowing more difficult.  Some developers expect demand may stabilize following a
poor selling season.  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the third-largest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, last week said second-quarter sales
fell from a year earlier and home orders were little changed,
while the average price climbed. The 2010 orders were boosted by
a federal tax credit for homebuyers that required contracts be
signed by April 30.  “While it’s now well-documented that the expected spring
selling season of 2011 simply did not materialize, it is
beginning to feel like the worst days of the housing market are
getting behind us,” Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Miller  said
during a conference call with analysts on June 23.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  