-- 
How Wal-Mart Swiped JPMorgan in $16 Billion Debit-Card Lobbying Battle

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-06-28T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/how-wal-mart-swiped-jpmorgan-in-16-billion-debit-card-battle.html
Jennifer Cavallaro’s Twitter feed
usually deals with matters like the free-range egg salad she
serves at her Beehive Café in Bristol,  Rhode Island . On May 17,
2010, she blasted a different message to her followers.  She cited her recent trip to Washington, where she lobbied
to cut the average 44 cents that merchants must pay a bank
whenever a customer uses a debit card. “Remember I went to
DC?” she wrote. “Well believe it or not it worked! New law
will cap fees for consumers and businesses soon!!!!”  Cavallaro was a recruit in the retail industry’s surprise
victorious assault on one of the most reliable income streams
for big banks, worth $16 billion a year. Her message hailed the
U.S. Senate’s decision that week to include a cap on debit-card
fees in its bill overhauling rules for  Wall Street .  Far from ending the matter, the vote touched off one of the
most intense lobbying duels in memory as the banking industry,
 Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  sought to kill or delay the debit-
card measure. It raged for more than a year, culminating on June
8 when the banks lost a cliffhanger of a vote in the Senate.  The behind-the-scenes story of the swipe-fee war --
reconstructed from public and confidential documents and
interviews with more than 30 people in Congress, regulatory
agencies and industry -- shows how far the richest interest
groups can go when a single decision puts billions of dollars up
for grabs.  On one side were retailers large and small, including Wal-
Mart Stores Inc., Target Corp. and  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , arguing that
they were being gouged. On the other was a financial industry
led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , weakened
by public anger over bailouts and bonuses, resisting any
government plan to set a price for their services.  Curious Alliances  Together, they deployed more than 500 lobbyists and spent
some $30 million, according to people briefed on the
expenditures. Their campaigns fanned dissension inside the
 Federal Reserve  and created curious alliances as Tea Party
freshmen, Indian tribes, tax activist  Grover Norquist  and the
nation’s biggest teachers union entered the fray.  The retailers flew hundreds of merchants like Cavallaro to
Washington; the financial lobby countered with squads from
community banks and credit unions. The combatants called on all
the tools of public relations: focus groups, TV ads, polls,
conference calls with as many as 100 participants -- and at
least one outright fabricated story planted in the press.  “Leading up to this vote has been one of the most heated
debates and exchanges that many of us in the Senate have seen in
our time,”  Richard Durbin  of Illinois, the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat and the sponsor of the provision to cut the
swipe fees, said in his June 8 floor speech.  ‘Political Cloud’  The outcome shows “banks still have a political cloud over
them in Washington in a huge way,” said Stephen Myrow, a former
Treasury Department official who worked on the 2008 financial
industry bailout and is now with ACG Analytics Inc., a
Washington investment research firm.  “When they flexed their muscle in Washington, large banks
had been used to having an impact,” he said. “Now they act
like, ‘We’ve taken our lumps, we’ve said our mea culpas, just
let us get back to what we do best.’ But the reality is that’s
not going to happen again.”  The banks’ failure to win a delay means that a  debit-card
cap  will likely be locked into place tomorrow when the Federal
Reserve, charged by Congress with implementing the rule, is
scheduled to release its final language. While that may end the
Washington debate, the decision will reverberate for consumers,
as banks consider whether to recoup the lost revenue by ending
free checking accounts and debit-card rewards programs. Still in
question is whether retailers will pass some of the spoils of
their victory back to shoppers through lower prices.  The Retailers  Retailers have long fumed about the cost of taking plastic.
Unlike with checks, banks charge them fees, known as
interchange, to process debit and credit card payments. Debit
fees average 44 cents per transaction or about $16 billion a
year. The amounts are set by Visa and MasterCard, which own the
payment networks and pass the money to the banks.  Debit cards, which deduct funds directly from a customer’s
checking account, have surpassed checks and credit cards as the
most frequent noncash means of payment. Transactions reached 38
billion in 2009, the Federal Reserve has said. Merchants say the
fees can be their highest expense after labor. Consumers pay at
least some of it in the form of higher prices. Retailers, who
have little alternative to working with Visa and MasterCard, say
the banks and networks have too much power to charge what they
want.  Atmosphere of Outrage  After years of unsuccessful pleas for relief from the
courts and Congress, some 20 representatives from big retailers
gathered in downtown Washington in July 2009 to discuss whether
the time was ripe for another try. It was 10 months since the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and outrage over
bailouts and bonuses had stoked anti-bank sentiment to levels
unseen since the Great Depression.  The group was called together by the Retail Industry
Leaders Association, which counts Wal-Mart, Target and Home
Depot among its members. In a rented conference room, they
discussed the result of recent focus groups they’d held in
California and Illinois with affluent, politically aware small-
business owners and consumers. The results led to a strategy
shift and the outlines of the proposal that eventually became
the Durbin amendment, according to three people involved with
the process.  The focus groups showed that business owners were keenly
aware of swipe fees while consumers were “easily confused” by
the retailers’ past efforts to explain why they should care,
according to an internal report on the research. That led the
retail lobby to abandon attempts to educate consumers and
instead concentrate on firing up small merchants to lobby their
congressional representatives, the people involved said.  Republican Wanted  Within a few months, DCI Group, a Washington-based public
affairs firm hired by the retailers, assembled an e-mail list of
more than 20 million small-business owners. They arranged 23
meetings between merchants and senators or their aides and held
press events in Tennessee, Ohio and Wisconsin -- home to
senators on the  Banking Committee . The campaign eventually
targeted 21 senators in 18 states.  The backing of merchants and a top Senate Democrat like
Durbin -- who records show received $16,500 in campaign funds
from major retailers and their trade group in 2010 -- wouldn’t
be enough, the retailers realized. “Employing a well-known and
well-respected Republican lobbyist with strong ties to
leadership in both the House and Senate is needed to help stay a
step ahead of the banks,” said a “Strategic Overview” drafted
by the retail industry group in October 2009.  Quiet Strategy  In January 2010, according to lobbying disclosure forms,
the retailers hired Fierce, Isakowitz & Blalock, a Washington-
based firm with an all-Republican roster. The team included Mark
Isakowitz, a regular on The Hill newspaper’s list of top
advocates; Kirsten Chadwick and Kirk Blalock, two former aides
to President George W. Bush; and later was joined by Billy
Piper, the longtime chief of staff to Senate Minority Leader
Mitch McConnell of Kentucky.  By February, with the Senate Banking Committee deep in
negotiations over the shape of the financial reform bill, the
retail leaders settled on a strategy. They would work quietly,
continuing to rely on grassroots contacts with lawmakers. In the
meantime, they would stoke anger at their opponents -- by
sending packets of negative stories about the banks and card
companies to legislative aides and reporters, with sections on
“Excessive Compensation” and “A History of Egregious Acts.”  As the retailers anticipated, the banking industry let its
guard down.  A Warning  Financial lobbyists had turned back the swipe-fee issue a
year earlier during debate over a separate bill dealing with
credit cards. Jeffrey Tassey, who led the Electronic Payments
Coalition, the main lobbying group on the matter for banks,
MasterCard and Visa, warned his members in a late 2009 memo that
they were still vulnerable because of “the banking industry’s
lack of political credibility” in Washington and “the long
term systemic attacks on its political brand.”  “In order to win and drive the retailers from the policy
arena we must mount an effort that relies on third parties
taking the offensive,” Tassey wrote in the memo.  The financial companies, however, were preoccupied with
other threats to profits from the bill that would become the
Dodd-Frank Act, including tighter rules on derivatives, capital
standards and trading.  ‘Stay Away’  In the frenzy, Durbin introduced his interchange amendment.
He’d first heard of the issue during a 2006 Judiciary Committee
hearing and had been pushing for years to get the matter in
front of the chamber. Speaking on the Senate floor May 12, 2010,
Durbin told his colleagues that the issue hadn’t gotten far in
Congress because of the big players involved. “Some people do
not want to touch it: Stay away from it. Don’t bring it up.
Well, that is not fair to small businesses,” he said.  The measure required the Fed to determine a “reasonable”
fee for merchants to pay banks and sought to open the system to
more competition by expanding the number of payment networks
retailers could use. To build support, Durbin, 66, agreed to
exempt banks and credit unions with assets of $10 billion or
less from any fee cut. On May 13, the Senate added the measure
to the financial overhaul by a vote of 64-33.  As the Senate and House met to resolve differences between
their separate regulatory bills, banking lobbyists remained
thinly stretched while the big retailers, now fully aligned with
restaurants, grocery and convenience stores and gas stations,
could focus on one issue.  Amendment Survives  “We knew the banks, which rarely lose battles on  Capitol
Hill , would stop at nothing to beat back our gains,” said
Katherine Lugar, a top lobbyist for the retail leaders group.
“Our low-profile campaign suddenly became very high-profile.”  The Durbin amendment survived intact into the Dodd-Frank
Act, which was signed by President Barack Obama on July 21.  The next stop was the Fed. Financial firms figured that the
central bank would be more receptive to the potential impact on
their business. “There were still people who felt that the Fed
was going to save them,” Tassey said in an interview.  Five months later, the Fed stunned the industry -- and the
markets. On Dec. 16, it proposed capping swipe fees at 12 cents
a transaction. Visa and MasterCard shares plunged more than 10
percent over fears for their business model.  In a letter to Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  the next day,
Steve Bartlett, president of the Financial Services Roundtable,
a trade group for the largest banks, displayed none of the
typical deference that the industry gives its main overseer.  ‘Shocked and Dismayed’  “I am shocked and dismayed,” wrote Bartlett, a former
Republican congressman from Texas. “We expect nothing less than
the board’s commitment to remain open-minded.”  In fact, the Fed issued the rule proposal amid internal
discord, according to two people with direct knowledge of the
matter.  The governors and staff members were upset that Congress
decided to drop debit fees in their laps at all, said the
people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because Fed
deliberations aren’t public. They considered the Durbin
amendment poorly drafted, confusing and open to much
interpretation, the people said.  The law directed the Fed to “establish standards” for
determining whether the interchange fees were “reasonable and
proportional to the cost” of processing debit charges.  Much of the Fed’s discussion was driven by a top staff
member, Louise Roseman, who oversees payment systems, the people
said. Working closely with Fed Vice Chairwoman Janet Yellen,
Roseman’s team concluded that a cap was the best option for
controlling fees. The 12-cent limit would be less than a third
of the average that merchants were paying.  Fraud Costs  Several governors wanted more information before voting on
a final plan, the people said. Daniel Tarullo, an Obama
appointee, was concerned that the banks’ fraud-prevention costs
weren’t being considered, the people said. Elizabeth Duke, a
George W. Bush appointee, expressed worries about small banks.  Fed spokeswoman Michelle Smith declined to comment on the
process.  At the public meeting Dec. 16, some Fed members had sharp
questions for the staff. Bernanke noted that “there’s a
presumption that prices will be set by market competition,
generally.” Kevin Warsh grilled the staff on why the plan “has
us in the price-setting business.”  Tarullo said he shared Warsh’s concerns. “We need to be
particularly open-minded” to “comments on how to implement the
final rule,” he said.  Bank Comeback  The evidence of a split inside the Fed, combined with
Republican gains in the House and Senate in the November
elections, encouraged the banks to try for a comeback in 2011.  Shortly after the Fed proposed its 12-cent cap, the banks
injected money into the Electronic Payments Coalition. Tassey,
the coalition’s head, was told that he and a team from VOX
Global, the Washington-based public affairs firm handling the
grassroots and public relations campaign, had at least $11
million at their disposal, according to a person familiar with
the campaign. It was a reversal from 2010, when the banks had
slashed the group’s funding, the person said. The banks also
boosted their campaign contributions.  Tassey, a veteran lobbyist who took over the payment
coalition in late 2008, countered the merchants by putting  ads 
on Metro trains and buses in the Washington area as well as in
Capitol Hill publications. They accused Congress of giving big
stores a “gift” of billions of dollars.  Bipartisan Lobby  The coalition employed lobbyists connected with both
parties. They included Democrats Gina Mahoney, a former senior
aide to House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer of Maryland, and James
Flood, a former top aide to Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York .
On the Republican side, the group turned to Clark Lytle &
Geduldig, a boutique that includes Deborah Pryce, a former
congresswoman from Ohio, and Sam Geduldig, an aide to then-House
Majority Whip Roy Blunt of Missouri, now a senator.  To persuade the Fed to modify its rule before issuing final
language, the banks deployed a parallel effort. It was led by
the Clearing House Association, whose members include JPMorgan,
Bank of America and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Clearing House Payments Co.,
the association’s business arm, clears almost $2 trillion of
payments daily.  Trade groups representing large and small banks and credit
unions joined the Clearing House effort. Their regular
conference calls to plot strategy sometimes drew 70 to 100
people from around the country, according to participants.  Fed Visit  In February, the Clearing House sent two in-house lawyers
and two lawyers from  Sullivan & Cromwell  to meet with the Fed’s
general counsel, Scott Alvarez, to discuss their opposition to
the proposed rule, according to documents on the Fed’s website.
Alvarez’s predecessor J. Virgil Mattingly was one of the
Sullivan lawyers, as was H. Rodgin Cohen, the firm’s senior
chairman and one of the top banking lawyers in the U.S.  The Clearing House group then filed a 65-page comment
letter, asserting that the Fed plan would give merchants an
“unjustifiable windfall” while threatening the stability of a
banking system still teetering from the credit crisis.  The Feb. 22 comment letter was signed by leaders of nine
banking associations -- a united front that the industry hadn’t
been able to assemble throughout the Dodd-Frank debate. The
Independent Community Bankers of America, for example, joined in
because it didn’t believe that the law’s exemption for small
banks would work in practice.  Camden Fine, the association’s head, wrote community
bankers during the Dodd-Frank debate: “Do you really think Wall
Street mega firms give a rat’s ass about small banks? Hell no.”
Debit fees, however, changed his tune. “The enemy of my enemy
is my friend,” he said in an interview.  Tea Party  Reinforced by hundreds of community bankers and credit
union executives, the bank lobbyists also worked Congress. While
the Republican shift had improved their chances in the House,
they needed 24 votes in the Senate to reverse their May 2010
loss. They adopted a two-pronged approach.  Republican lobbyists working for the financial industry
told Tea Party and other conservative members in the House and
Senate that the swipe-fee cap should be anathema to anyone
worried about interference in the market by the government and
the Fed, according to congressional aides.  To win support from Democrats, different lobbyists argued
that if the banks lost some debit-card revenue they would have
to charge more for other services, which would most hurt people
with low incomes who have limited access to the banking system.  Wall Street Threats  Lawmakers from both parties pressed Bernanke and Fed
Governor Sarah Bloom Raskin on those points at two hearings on
Feb. 17. The banking side gained traction when both Fed
officials acknowledged doubt about their ability to write the
rules effectively and hinted they would welcome more time.  Pushing their case outside Washington, Wall Street leaders
went public with threats to cut services.  “We’re going to do a series of things which we don’t want
to do,” Charles Scharf, then chief executive officer of
JPMorgan’s retail bank, said at the bank’s annual investor day
in February. “If you use your debit card on a regular basis,
that qualified you for a free account and that’s no longer going
to be the case in most cases.”  In March, JPMorgan notified cardholders it would be
discontinuing perks on some debit-card programs, including
Disney Rewards Benefits, because of a “new law known as the
Durbin Amendment.” Durbin’s name was underlined for emphasis.  ‘Oh Jamie’  Durbin received copies of the letter from some Illinois
constituents and in-state staff members. He was incensed.  “I thought, ‘Oh Jamie, you just crossed the line,’”
Durbin said in an interview, referring to Jamie Dimon, the
bank’s chairman and chief executive officer.  Howard Opinsky, a spokesman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment.  The banks also boosted their argument about the impact on
low-income people by trumpeting letters of support sent to
lawmakers in March from the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce,
the National Education Association and the Naval Enlisted
Reserve Association. The National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People sent House Speaker  John Boehner  a
letter supporting a delay; a few weeks later, after receiving
complaints from retail interests, the activist group pulled
back, sending a “clarification” to the Ohio Republican.  The activist and union groups backing the banks found
themselves on the same side as RedState, self-described as the
“most widely read right-of-center blog on Capitol Hill.”
Republican consultants for the banks encouraged RedState to
weigh in, sending over draft articles and talking points,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the process.  Calling a Blogger  In March, Erick Erickson, the publication’s editor, posted
an article titled, “Durbin and the Federal Reserve Plot to Fix
Prices and Harm Consumers.” Congressional staff supporting the
bank position handed out dozens of copies at a House briefing
shortly thereafter.  Erickson said in an interview he was already at work on the
piece when a friend from a public relations firm hired by the
banks got in touch with him about the issue and passed along
another publication’s article. After Erickson’s story was
posted, he said, he was contacted by people who seemed to have a
stake in the fight, making him leery of writing more.  In both the House and Senate, lawmakers prepared
legislation to delay the rule for as long as two years for more
study. The Fed was consulted throughout the drafting, according
to two Senate aides involved in the process.  Planted Story  A day before the bills were filed, Politico’s Morning
Money, a news summary read by lawmakers, lobbyists and
regulatory officials via e-mail around 5:30 a.m. each day,
weighed in with a scoop.  “Just asking: Which Senator has referred high-pressured
calls he received from retailers lobbying on the Durbin
amendment to the Ethics Committee for further investigation?”
the March 14 article said. “The nature of the calls: ‘Stay away
from the effort to delay Durbin or we will crush you.’”  No such referral ever happened, according to Senate staff
members and lobbyists involved in the campaign. It was a story
planted by the banking side to put retailers off balance,
according to one lobbyist familiar with the strategy.  Ben White, the Politico reporter who writes the newsletter,
said in an e-mail that he stands by the item.  Counter Attack  The retail side was in fact moving back into action. They’d
watched Bernanke’s and Raskin’s congressional testimony with
alarm and by the next day had convened a phone conference with
at least 60 lobbyists and retail executives. The tone of the
call was one of confusion, participants said.  The merchants’ coalition had filed comments with the Fed,
and sent 17 representatives to meet with the central bank’s
staff, led by Jeffrey Shinder, a partner at Constantine Cannon
LLP who had won two major legal settlements against Visa and
MasterCard. Still, Bernanke and Raskin didn’t appear to be
embracing their arguments.  Representatives of Wal-Mart, the world’s biggest retailer,
were voicing particular concern about possibly losing a fight
that the firm had become so invested in winning, according to
two people familiar with the company’s response. Greg Rossiter,
a spokesman for the Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer,
declined to comment.  The retailers doubled down. In March, they again flew in
hundreds of merchants, putting them up at Washington hotels, to
tell their lawmakers how much debit-card fees were hurting their
businesses in a struggling economy. They held news conferences,
wrote opinion pieces and blasted out television and print ads.
They passed around support letters from gambling-rich Indian
tribes including Connecticut’s Mashantucket Pequots.  Campaign Contributions  “The banks rushed out to an early lead, but I think as
soon as we started to get retailers across the country engaged
in this discussion in February and March, you saw the momentum
slow down a lot for the banks,” said David French, the top
lobbyist for the  National Retail Federation , another industry
trade group involved in the campaign.  From January through May, the political action committees
of  Target Corp. (TGT) , Best Buy Co., Wal-Mart and Home Depot Inc. made
$840,000 in campaign contributions to lawmakers and their
political committees, federal election records show. That
compares with a total of $541,500 in that period from JPMorgan,
Bank of America, Citigroup and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   Endgame  Jon Tester wasn’t the obvious senator to take the lead
against the fee cap. The 54-year-old Montana Democrat, a third-
generation farmer, has no major financial institutions in his
state and voted against the $700 billion bank bailout in 2008.  Tester, the first Democrat to win a seat from Montana since
1988, is up for re-election in 2012 in what may be one of the
tightest races in the country. If anything, he might have been
expected to be on the other side because his lead banking
staffer, Ali O’Donnell, used to be director of government
affairs at the National Retail Federation.  Instead, Tester, who had voted against Durbin last year,
decided to craft a bill delaying the rule. His position
triggered an onslaught of political attacks by Montana retail
groups saying he was “standing with Wall Street.” A
Republican-affiliated group called Americans for Job Security
began running radio spots against him.  ‘Between Friends’  Tester, since the start of this year, has received $27,450
from the political action committees of the banking and credit
union trade groups. Co-sponsoring his bill to delay the debit
rule by two years was Senator Bob Corker, a Tennessee Republican
who has received $11,500 from the major banking trade groups
this year, $10,000 from JPMorgan and $7,000 from Visa and
MasterCard.  “This is one of those issues where we have retailers on
one side, we have bankers on the other side,” said Corker, who
also faces re-election next year and has been the subject of
similar attacks at home in radio and television ads. “In the
end, we are trying to pick between friends.”  Tester and Corker introduced their bill on March 15. The
two-year delay was too long for many lawmakers who interpreted
it as a way to kill the rule outright. For weeks, Tester and
Corker pushed potential converts, seeking a compromise. Fifteen
months? One year? Tester negotiated with one senator on his cell
phone while seeding some of his 1,800 acres from a Versatile 875
tractor, according to an aide.  In early June, a bipartisan group of Republicans Corker and
Mike Crapo of Idaho plus Democrats Tester, Kay Hagan of North
Carolina, Michael Bennet of Colorado and Tom Carper and Chris Coons of Delaware, signed onto language for a six-month delay in
the rule, with an option for another six months after a study.  24 Votes  To get the 60 votes it needed, the banking lobby had to
peel 24 votes from the original Durbin coalition. While the
lobbyists thought Tester’s group was close to the number, they
knew they needed a handful more, according to people directly
involved in the count.  The retailers worked to hold onto a small group of wavering
senators. In the countdown to the final vote, they ran
television ads in some of their home states: Maine, for
Republicans Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins; West Virginia, for
Democrat Senator Joe Manchin; and North Carolina, for Republican
Richard Burr. Snowe, Collins and Burr had voted with Durbin in
2010 and were considered on the fence. Manchin, a freshman, also
remained undecided.  Last-Minute Calls  The bank side zeroed in on several Republicans, including
Scott Brown of Massachusetts, who had been part of the
bipartisan talks with Tester.  Lobbyists for the financial industry had approached Grover
Norquist, the anti-tax lobbyist, to get involved. On June 7, his
group Americans for Tax Reform announced it would “score” the
vote -- meaning senators who supported Tester could add to their
conservative credentials come election time. Norquist personally
contacted a few Republican senators to push them, confirmed
Kelly William Cobb, government affairs manager at Americans for
Tax Reform, who said the group was happy to help because the fee
cap is “bad public policy.”  On the morning of the June 8 vote, Senator David Vitter, a
Louisiana Republican who also had sided with Durbin last year,
remained undecided. He got on a conference call with more than a
dozen home-state retailers. He had a simple question -- could
they accept a six-month delay? The answer quickly came back: no.  Vitter and Brown walked onto the Senate floor four hours
later and voted against Tester’s proposal. The measure fell six
votes short of the 60 it needed for adoption, 54-45.  As the vote proceeded, Jennifer Cavallaro, the 51-year-old
Rhode Island café owner, was waiting outside the Capitol
Building in the visitor security line. She’d been summoned to
Washington again along with other merchants for some last-minute
lobbying.  While she got in too late to see the final action,
Cavallaro didn’t miss the chance to thank her home state
senator, Democrat Jack Reed, who mentioned her -- and the
Beehive Café -- in his speech supporting Durbin before the vote.  She said Reed had told her in early 2010 that the retailers
didn’t have much of a chance in Congress. He was nearly proven
right -- swimming against the political tides, the banks had
still managed to rack up 18 of the 24 new votes they needed.  “I was surprised we won, to be honest,” Cavallaro said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Phil Mattingly in
Washington at   pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  