-- 
Pao de Acucar Shares Gain Most Since 2008 on Carrefour Merger Speculation

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-06-28T20:24:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/pao-de-acucar-shares-gain-most-in-three-weeks-on-carrefour-merger-talk.html
Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao
Grupo Pao de Acucar gained the most since October 2008 in Sao
Paulo on speculation  Carrefour SA (CA)  will merge its Brazilian
assets with the retailer’s, overcoming opposition by rival
 Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA. (CO)   Pao de Acucar, the largest retailer in  Brazil , jumped 13
percent to 73.25 reais at 4:15 p.m. New York time, a record
close.  The proposal sets up a power struggle with Casino, which
jointly controls Pao de Acucar with the Diniz family and called
the plan “illegal” in a statement today. The deal, proposed by
Banco BTG Pactual SA investment fund Gama, would save the
combined companies about 700 million euros ($1 billion) a year,
according to a separate statement.  “Certainly to have announced something of this size,
they’ve already studied the problems they could encounter,”
said Marcelo Varejao, an analyst at Sao Paulo-based brokerage
Socopa Corretora. “The deal is very good for Pao de Acucar.
Apart from the large synergies of the operation, you end up
eliminating one of its direct competitors” as Carrefour will no
longer be the Brazilian company’s rival, he said.  Casino said the plan violates a 2005 agreement with Pao de
Acucar Chairman Abilio Diniz for it to become the sole
controlling shareholder in 2012. Casino bought 24 percent of Pao
de Acucar in 1999 and by June 16 had raised its stake to 37
percent.  Shareholder Agreement  The merger won’t change the shareholder agreement and will
only be completed with Casino’s approval, Percio de Souza,
partner at Estater Gestao e Financas, which advised on the deal,
said in  Sao Paulo  today.  Abilio Diniz said he will evaluate the merger plan with
Casino. A final decision will respect the law and the Pao de
Acucar shareholder agreement, he said in an e-mailed statement.  Casino asked Diniz to immediately call a board meeting of
the Brazilian company to discuss the merger proposal, according
to a filing from Pao de Acucar. Diniz, according to a separate
filing, said he’s been “unsuccessful” in trying to talk to
Casino Chief Executive Officer Jean Charles Naouri for the past
24 hours.  Local regulators would review the proposed merger together
with other recent acquisitions by Pao de Acucar, Fernando de Magalhaes Furlan, president of Brazil’s antitrust agency, said
in a telephone interview today in Brasilia.  The proposal calls for Gama’s ordinary shares to be listed
in Sao Paulo and as American depositary receipts in  New York ,
according to the statement. If they approve the deal, investors
will receive 0.95 ordinary Gama share for each preferred Pao de
Acucar share held, and one ordinary Gama share for each ordinary
Pao de Acucar share held.  That would value Pao de Acucar’s preferred shares at 66
reais apiece, the statement said.  Carrefour gained 3.7 percent to 27.44 euros in Paris
trading, while Casino slumped 5.6 percent to 62.20 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  