-- 
Papandreou’s Bid to Avert Greek Default Tested as Vote Begins

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-06-29T12:40:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/papandreou-races-to-avert-greek-default-as-protests-besiege-austerity-vote.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s bid to avert the euro region’s first sovereign
default will culminate today with a budget vote now under way in
a Parliament besieged by protesters amid a wave of strikes.  Papandreou may scrape through approval as dissenters waver
among the 155 members he commands in the  300-seat legislature  to
allow him to deliver a 78 billion-euro ($112 billion) austerity
package that will determine if his indebted nation can receive
further rescue funds. In a final speech to lawmakers he said
that the measures are a “difficult, imperative step” and that
they must rise to the occasion to pass the plan.  Outside, scores of police lined up to guard Parliament,
facing down a crowd of thousands that has clogged Athens’ city
center and made the legislature the focus of its ire during a
48-hour strike in protest against the austerity plan. Riot
officers pelted tear gas in an attempt to disperse the throng
and Molotov cocktails and stones were thrown back at them.  “The odds favor the government and a parliamentary
approval,” said  Wolfango Piccoli , an analyst at Eurasia Group
in  London . “But this will be a Pyrrhic victory and an early
election later this year or early 2012 is almost certain. It is
difficult to see how the current government can implement the
required measures to meet the bailout conditionalities.”  Vote Due  Papandreou told lawmakers that he has received a European
Union pledge for aid which will offer “protection from the wild
wind of the markets.” Earlier this week he called on them to
“do their patriotic duty” and pass the austerity bill. That,
and a successful vote tomorrow to authorize implementation of
the plan, would enable Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos to
appear at a meeting of European counterparts this weekend.  Thousands of chanting protesters are confronting riot
police outside the chamber. Yesterday more than 20,000 gathered
and 37 police were injured as hooded youths wielding clubs
smashed windows at a  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  restaurant and burned
vehicles. Nine people were injured in violence today, the health
ministry said in a text message.  Papandreou has struggled to muster opposition backing for
the package while keeping his own in party in line. He appointed
a new finance minister to stem defections, survived a confidence
vote and outlined 5.6 billion euros of additional budget
measures, including a 5 percent levy on lawmakers’ wages. On
June 24, he won a pledge for a second bailout from EU leaders on
condition he can deliver domestic support.  Lawmakers Waver  In a move that may aid Papandreou, the Democratic Alliance,
a group led by former foreign minister Dora Bakoyannis, said
yesterday that its five members in Parliament should vote
“according to their conscience” taking into account “the
immediate danger of bankruptcy facing the country.” Bakoyannis
said today that she will abstain in the vote.  Thomas Robopoulos, one of two lawmakers in Papandreou’s
party who had threatened to oppose the government bill, today
withdrew his objections and said he will vote in favor.
Opposition lawmaker Elsa Papadimitriou pledged to defy her party
leadership and support the package.  Failure to pass the two bills may lead to the euro area’s
first sovereign default as  Greece  needs to cover 6.6 billion
euros ($9.4 billion) of maturing bonds in August. Greek
government officials have said they may also not have cash to
pay wages and pensions by mid-July.  As Papandreou races to clinch agreement, German finance
ministry officials were due to meet with banks and insurers in
Berlin today. They will use a French proposal as a blueprint for
discussion to seek an agreement on their role in a Greek rescue,
two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Rehn’s Call  EU leaders and officials have leaned on Papandreou to draw
the widest possible support for a program that runs beyond 2013,
when he is next slated to face the polls. EU Economic and
Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said yesterday there is “no
plan B” for the country if the laws aren’t passed.  “The European Union continues to be ready to support
Greece,” Rehn said in a statement in Brussels. “But  Europe  can
only help Greece if Greece helps itself.”  Christine Lagarde , named yesterday as the next head of the
 International Monetary Fund , called on Greece’s opposition
parties to offer support. The IMF provides about 30 percent of
the bailout funds to Greece.  “They need to put aside political differences and work in
the service of their country,” she told  France ’s TF1
Television.  Objection Withdrawn  Antonis Samaras, the head of the biggest opposition party
 New Democracy , has defied such calls and repeated yesterday that
his party will vote against the bill.  While Papandreou seemed yesterday to have enough support,
there is still a danger that the package could fail to pass,
according to Christian Schulz, a London-based economist at Joh.
Berenberg Gossler & Co. said in a note.  “Significant risks remain,” he said. “The outcome of the
Greek votes is not certain and there could still be negative
surprises when it comes to the vote on the implementation law.”  Venizelos said late yesterday that the government considers
any vote in favor of the austerity plan and an accompanying law
as “a very brave and responsible action.” He spoke after
socialist lawmaker Vasso Papandreou said she will back the
package “in full knowledge that I am choosing the knife rather
than the pistol.”  Tax Increases  Apart from sales of state assets such as a stake in  Public
Power Corp SA (PPC) , the former power monopoly and levies ranging from
1 percent to 5 percent on wages, Papandreou’s plan includes
higher taxes on restaurants and bars, higher heating-oil taxes
and lowering the tax-free threshold to 8,000 euros from 12,000
euros presently. Greek newspaper  To Vima  calculated the
additional burden for an average Greek family of four at 2,795
euros a year, about the same as one month’s income.  Implementing more austerity measures threatens to deepen a
three-year recession and complicate efforts to boost government
revenue. Greek gross domestic product, which contracted 4.4
percent in 2010, will shrink a further 3.8 percent this year,
according to a report from EU and IMF inspectors in June. The
nation’s debt load will peak at 166 percent of GDP next year,
and is already the biggest in the euro-region’s history.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  