-- 
Peltz’s Trian Returns to Kraft Foods With $420 Million Stake

-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-06-28T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/peltz-s-trian-returns-to-kraft-foods-with-420-million-stake.html
Nelson Peltz ’s hedge fund bought a
$420 million stake in  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , reviving his interest in
a company he had pushed for change in 2007.  Trian Fund Management LP, Peltz’s New York-based activist
fund, held 12.2 million Kraft Class A shares as of March 31,
according to an amended Form 13F released today by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The filing shows that
Peltz’s application to keep the Kraft stake confidential,
submitted to the SEC last month, expired on June 17.  Peltz is an activist investor who takes stakes in
companies, particularly those in the food and restaurant
businesses, and then frequently pushes for changes designed to
boost their share prices. His previous activist investments
include Kraft, ketchup maker H.J. Heinz Co. and luxury retailer
Tiffany & Co.  In November 2007, Kraft agreed to add two board members
backed by Peltz after he promised not to seek control of the
Northfield, Illinois, company. At the time, Peltz held options
to purchase 37.3 million Kraft shares, the equivalent of a 2.4
percent stake. Trian reported in August that its funds had
divested all of their remaining Kraft shares during the second
quarter of 2010.  In April, Peltz said that changes in corporate governance
would enhance his ability to make activist investments in
“untouchables,” his term for companies with market
capitalizations of $50 billion or more. Speaking before the
Council of Institutional Investors in  Washington , Peltz also
said that larger companies may provide bigger profit
opportunities for activism.  Additional Firepower  Kraft currently has a market value of about $60.6 billion.
The shares have increased more than 9 percent so far this year.  New York-based Trian Fund Management LP, which oversaw
$2.96 billion in assets as of March 1, received some additional
firepower earlier this year, according to its latest investment
adviser registration. The firm received contractual commitments
as of April 1 for another $447 million of capital, net of
anticipated redemptions, the registration statement said.  Trian’s largest equity holding at the end of March was a
$406 million stake in Legg Mason Inc., the Baltimore-based money
management company, according to the original Form 13F that
Trian filed with the SEC on May 16. Managers who oversee more
than $100 million in equities must file a Form 13F within 45
days of each quarter’s end to list their U.S.-traded stocks,
options and convertible bonds. 