-- 
Perella Weinberg, Aviation Executives Form Plane-Leasing Venture

-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 
2011-06-28T17:40:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/perella-weinberg-aviation-executives-form-plane-leasing-venture.html
A  Perella Weinberg  Partners LP
affiliate has formed an aircraft-leasing venture with aviation
executives and purchased three of Boeing Co.’s single-aisle
737s.  The venture, Infinity Aviation Capital, teams funds in the
investment bank’s Asset Based Value strategy with Richard
Baudouin, co-founder of Aviation Capital Group, as well as
Khawer Ali and Jerrold Rosen, principals of KJ Aviation Services
Inc., New York-based Perella Weinberg said in a statement.  The venture will invest in jet and turboprop planes,
engines and other assets as well as so-called mezzanine loans.  “Recent disruptions in the airline and aircraft-leasing
industries have resulted in significant opportunities to provide
needed liquidity and financing solutions,” David Schiff, a
Perella Weinberg partner, said in the statement.  Baudouin, Ali and Rosen, all of whom have experience in
leasing and remarketing commercial aircraft, will manage
operations, Perella Weinberg said. Baudouin, who has more than
30 years of experience in aviation finance, began his career at
General Electric Co., the firm said.  Infinity Aviation Capital will “implement a prudent growth
strategy based upon opportunity-driven acquisitions and
mezzanine lending to penetrate these underserviced sectors,”
Rosen said in the statement.  Perella Weinberg’s Asset Based Value strategy, the branch
involved in the venture, manages more than $1 billion.  The venture’s Boeing jets were pre-owned and are leased to
an international carrier not identified in the statement. A new
single-aisle 737 has an  average list price  of about $73 million,
according to Boeing’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner in Dallas at   edufner@bloomberg.net  