-- 
Polish Current-Account Shortfall Widens Less Than Forecast

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-06-29T14:48:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/poland-s-current-account-gap-probably-quadrupled-on-imports-rule-change.html
Poland ’s first-quarter current-
account deficit was less than the median estimate of economist
as the central bank’s change in methodology added less to the
shortfall than estimated.  The gap was 3.36 billion euros ($4.82 billion) in the first
quarter, compared with a revised 2.17 billion euros a year
earlier, the Warsaw-based Narodowy Bank Polski said today. The
median estimate of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 4.15
billion euros. The bank, which changed its accounting rules to
reduce the volume of unclassified transactions, also revised
current-account figures since 2004.  Poland’s current account, the broadest measure of money
flowing in and out of the country, attracted investor attention
after the deficit in unclassified items, or errors and
omissions, exceeded the overall shortfall for a second year in
2010. The changed methodology cut errors and omissions by
shifting used-car imports to the  trade balance  and classifying
current transfers more precisely, the bank said.  “The revised data didn’t confirm the concerns of some
investors,”  Grzegorz Maliszewski , chief economist at  Bank
Millennium SA (MIL)  in Warsaw, said by phone. “The deficit structure
doesn’t pose a big risk to Poland’s financial stability because
it’s financed by long-term capital inflows, such as EU funds.”  Zloty Gains  The zloty traded at 3.9957 per euro at 4:30 p.m. in Warsaw,
from 4.006 before the data release and 4.01 late yesterday, its
weakest since April 4. The cost of protecting Polish debt
against non-payment for five years using credit-default swaps
fell to 157.4 from 165.4 yesterday, after rising to a seven-
month high of 166 on June 24.  The revised figures widened last year’s current-account
deficit to 4.5 percent of gross domestic product from a
preliminary figure of 3.4 percent of GDP, the central bank said
in a statement. That was below economists’ predictions that the
ratio may exceed 5 percent.  "Poland’s current account deficit gives no reason for any
concern whatsoever, considering the fundamentals of our
economy," Jozef Sobota, the head of the central bank’s
statistics department, told reporters in Warsaw. He said errors
and omissions, which were nearly halved for 2009 to 2.3 percent
of GDP from 4.4 percent, are now in line with those of other
countries with economies of a comparable size to Poland’s.  The statistical changes were prepared with help from the
 International Monetary Fund , which sent a technical mission to
Poland this month. The revised payments data published today
“are based on appropriate compilation techniques,” the IMF
said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  