-- 
Pound Weakens as Policy Makers’ Comments Bolster Bets on Record Low Rates

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-06-28T15:48:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/pound-falls-as-posen-s-comments-bolster-low-u-k-interest-rate-forecasts.html
Britain’s pound fell against most of
its major peers as traders pared bets on higher  interest rates 
after three  Bank of England  policy makers signaled they’re
concerned about the growth outlook.  Sterling declined versus the euro for a second day and
depreciated most against the Brazilian real and Australian
dollar.Adam Posen yesterday dismissed a call by the Bank of
International Settlements for tighter monetary policy worldwide
to tame inflation as “nonsense.” The U.K. central bank’s chief
economist,  Spencer Dale , said the recovery remains fragile,
while  David Miles  said renewed tightening of credit conditions
could inhibit demand for businesses.  “The time at which we start to see rates move higher is
moving further and further away,” said Shant Movsesian, a
strategist in London at 4Cast Ltd., a researcher that counts
central banks among its subscribers. “The pound is likely to
stay a bit weaker. There’s no real rush to buy it right now.”  The pound weakened 0.4 percent to 89.69 pence per euro at
4:32 p.m. in  London . It was little changed at $1.6018 after
falling as much as 0.5 percent earlier. Against the so-called
Aussie, the pound depreciated 0.5 percent to A$1.5232.  Posen, who has voted since October to extend the Bank’s
bond buying under the quantitative easing program, said in a
speech in Aberdeen, Scotland, that there is “little or no
credit growth, little wage growth beyond productivity, little
evidence of rising inflation expectations” in the U.K.  Current Account  The pound stayed lower after a government report showed
Britain’s current-account gap narrowed less than economists
estimated in the first quarter. The deficit fell to 9.4 billion
pounds in the January-March period from 10.5 billion pounds in
the previous three months. The median forecast of 12 economists
was for a shortfall of 4.7 billion pounds.  “There are still a lot of concerns over the U.K. economic
outlook,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in London. “Although I’m not
convinced at this point that they will do more quantitative
easing, the rising risks as the data disappoints should keep QE
concerns behind the sterling downside.”  The British currency has fallen 8 percent in the past 12
months, making it the third-worst performer among 10 developed-
market currencies after the U.S. and Canadian dollars, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  Inflation Expectations  Gilts declined as stock-market gains curbed demand for
safer assets. The drop raised 10-year gilt yields by 10 basis
points to 3.26 percent. The 3.75 percent security due September
2020 fell 0.79, or 7.9 pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to
103.885.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  advanced 0.8 percent while the benchmark
Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.5 percent.  Gilts have handed investors a 3.2 percent gain this year,
compared with a 0.8 percent return from German debt and 3.4
percent from U.S. Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  The Bank of England has held its benchmark rate at a record
low of 0.5 percent since April 2009 to support growth even as
inflation rose to 4.5 percent in May, more than twice the
government’s target.  The U.K. 10-year breakeven rate has fallen to 3.05
percentage points from 3.08 percentage points a month ago. The
rate, a market gauge of inflation expectations, is derived from
yield difference between regular and index-linked bonds.  Britain is selling 5 billion pounds of gilts due in 2060 in
a syndicated sale, according to a banker involved in the
transaction. The securities will be priced to yield 0.75 basis
point below 2055 U.K. government bonds, the banker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 