-- 
Pre-Diabetics Can Stave Off Disease With New Diet, Drugs, Researcher Show

-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 
2011-06-28T19:03:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/pre-diabetics-can-stave-off-disease-with-new-diet-drugs-researcher-show.html
Adults with pre-diabetes conditions
of impaired glucose tolerance and elevated blood-sugar levels
can save more than $4,400 in medical costs over 10 years by
taking medication or changing their habits, a study shows.  Taking metformin, a drug used to regulate blood sugar,
before diabetes develops can reduce medical costs related to the
disease by $4,412 over a decade, according to the summary of
results presented today at the  American Diabetes Association’s 
meeting in  San Diego . Dietary changes and regular physical
activity can save $2,667 over 10 years, the report said.  The number of diabetics in the U.S. has more than tripled
to  26 million  since 1980, and 27 percent are undiagnosed,
according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in
Atlanta. An estimated 79 million U.S. adults have pre-diabetes
and, without timely treatment, complications from the illness
rise exponentially, according to the  World Diabetes Foundation .
Diabetics spend an average of $6,649 per year treating the
disease, according to a 2008  report  by the diabetes association.  “This is a no-brainer,” the study’s lead author,  William
H. Herman  of the University of Michigan Medical Center, said
today at the report’s presentation in San Diego. “It represents
an intervention that should be adopted and widely implemented.”  The trial by the Diabetes Prevention Program of the
 National Institutes of Health  in Bethesda,  Maryland , randomly
assigned adults with pre-diabetic symptoms to intensive
lifestyle counseling, metformin or placebo for an average of
three years. The total medical cost per person after 10 years
was $29,585 for lifestyle management, $27,840 for metformin and
$32,252 for placebo treatment.  Quality of Life  Researchers also found that patients who exercised and ate
healthy diets had the highest scores on quality of life
measures. Participants undergoing the intensive lifestyle
program lost 7 percent of their body weight and exercised for
150 minutes each week.  Quality of life for each treatment was measured using a
ratio known as quality-adjusted life year, or QALY, which
estimates how medical intervention helps patients live longer or
improve their quality of life. This figure was highest for those
who underwent lifestyle management, with 6.81 QALYs. Metformin
use and the placebo group accrued 6.69 and 6.67 QALYs,
respectively.  “Over 10 years, from a payer perspective, intensive
lifestyle and metformin were less expensive and more effective
than placebo,” the report said. “Both health policy and social
policy should support the funding of intensive lifestyle and
metformin for diabetes prevention in high-risk adults.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Renick in New York at 
 orenick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 