-- 
PV Crystalox Plunges After Saying First Operating Loss Possible

-- B y   T o d d   W h i t e   a n d   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-06-28T07:52:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/pv-crystalox-says-it-may-post-operating-loss-in-second-half.html
PV Crystalox Solar Plc (PVCS) , the U.K.’s
biggest maker of silicon wafers, fell a record 40 percent in
London after saying it may report its first operating loss in
the second half should market conditions not improve.  The stock dropped to as low as 26.75 pence and traded at 28
pence as of 8:30 a.m. local time.  First-half shipments will be “slightly below” the 210 to
225 megawatts forecast on May 19, the Abingdon, England-based
company said in a filing today. Earnings are being eroded by
“weaker-than-anticipated” demand from end users of
photovoltaic devices, as well as increased production capacity
and “high” inventories among its competitors. The potential
operating loss and average sales prices weren’t given.  Demand in  Europe , the largest market for solar devices, was
undercut this year by subsidy cuts in  Germany  and  Italy . In
Germany, the top national market for photovoltaic sales last
year, about 1,000 megawatts of solar modules were installed in
the first five months this year, down 41 percent.  “Although demand in Germany is expected to increase in the
second half of the year, we expect that trading conditions in
the second half will be significantly more challenging than
anticipated at the time” of the May 19 statement, the company
said today.  PV Crystalox had about 85 days of inventory on hand in the
fourth quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
was above the 76-day average of the 37-member Bloomberg Global
Leaders Solar Index, weighted by market capitalization.  The potential operating loss in the second half might be
offset if there were a significant improvement in average
selling prices for its wafers compared with spot prices, a
reduction in supplier prices or both, the company said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Todd White at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net 
David Altaner in  London  at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  