-- 
Rafako Surges Most on Record as PBG Bets on Polish Energy in Takeover Deal

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 
2011-06-28T09:06:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/rafako-surges-most-on-record-as-pbg-bets-on-polish-energy-in-takeover-deal.html
Rafako SA (RFK)  jumped the most on record
after  PBG SA (PBG)  offered a 65 percent premium for a majority stake
in  Poland ’s largest industrial boilermaker as the builder seeks
to “increase its chances” of winning construction projects.  Rafako gained as much as 32 percent to 12.37 zloty by 10:20
a.m. in Warsaw today, rising the most since it started trading
in July 1994. PBG fell to the lowest in almost three weeks,
declining as much as 3.4 percent to 143.6 zloty. The benchmark
WIG20 Index decreased 0.5 percent.  Wysogotowo, western Poland-based PBG signed a preliminary
deal to buy 50 percent plus one share in Rafako from Elektrim SA
for 540.8 million zloty ($194 million), or 15.54 zloty a share.
Poland’s third-largest construction company, which is bidding to
build at least 6  power plants  in the country, needs Rafako to
“increase its chances” to get the contracts.  Power utilities in the country, which depends on coal for
about 90 percent of its electricity, need to invest more than
200 billion zloty in power generation through 2025 to comply
with European Union requirements, the government estimates.  PBG will announce a public bid to reach 66 percent in
Rafako as it needs to comply with the Polish law, Chief
Financial Officer Przemyslaw Szkudlarczyk told TVN CNBC
television today.  Buying Rafako may increase PBG’s chances to win power
tenders as both companies take part in rival groups that bid to
build Polish plants, including PGE SA’s project in Opole and
Enea SA’s facility in Kozienice.  To increase the focus on the energy sector PBG plans to
sell its road-building and civil engineering units to  Spain ’s
Obracon Huarte Lain SA; it recently completed the takeover of
power engineering company  Energomontaz Poludnie SA. (EPD)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw at 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  