-- 
Rand Depreciation View Makes Coronation Buy Anglo

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-06-28T16:38:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/rand-depreciation-view-makes-coronation-buy-anglo-correct-.html
(Corrects Anglo American peak in second paragraph.)  The rand may tumble as much as 30
percent, boosting exporters’ profit and mining shares, according
to  Coronation Fund Managers Ltd. (CML) , whose Core Equity Fund was
South  Africa ’s top performer over the past three years.  Coronation, which manages 231 billion rand ($33.6 billion),
is buying Anglo American Plc, the diversified miner whose shares
have slid 20 percent from a 2 1/2-year peak on Feb. 14, Chief
Investment Officer Karl Leinberger said in an interview in  Cape
Town . Anglo American shares rose 0.4 percent to 319.75 rand at
11:28 a.m. in Johannesburg.  “The rand is very far off its intrinsic value; it should
be 20 to 30 percent cheaper,” Leinberger said. “If you can
find a business with revenues priced in dollars and costs priced
in rand, and it is reasonably priced at 7 rand per dollar, that
is a good investment.”  The rand has gained 37 percent against the dollar since the
beginning of 2009, as near-zero  interest rates  in developed
nations encouraged investors to borrow cheaply and invest in
higher-yielding markets including  South Africa , where the
benchmark rate is 5.5 percent. The currency has declined 3.7
percent since reaching a 3 1/2-year high on April 29.  “South Africa is not competitive at this  exchange rate ,”
Leinberger said. “Global drivers have been driving the rand,
but we just think that can’t last forever. It’s just a question
of time.”  The rand will depreciate 6 percent to 7.30 per dollar by
the end of 2012, according to the median estimate of 25 analysts
in a Bloomberg survey. The most bearish forecast, by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, sees the rand falling to 8.20.  Rand Volatility  The likelihood that the South African currency will weaken
20 percent versus the dollar in the next year was about 33
percent when it was at 6.8860 per dollar, implied volatility
from options trading monitored by Bloomberg showed.  Coronation’s Core Equity Fund returned 6.2 percent a year
over the past three years, the best performance out of 25
similar funds surveyed by Johannesburg-based Alexander Forbes
Asset Consultants.  South African equities offer “reasonable value” following
the benchmark stock index’s 5.1 percent decline this month,
Leinberger said. The FTSE/JSE All Share Index gained 0.1 percent
to 30,921 at 11:15 a.m. in Johannesburg.  “Within the local market, stocks would be our preferred
asset class,” Leinberger said. “They’re offering reasonable
value. You’re at the level where you’re being rewarded for risk
now.”  Mining Stocks  Coronation is buying diversified mining companies and
platinum miners, Leinberger said. The FTSE/JSE Africa Mining
Index of 19 miners has plunged 15 percent since reaching a 2
1/2-year high on Feb. 14, buoyed by rising prices of commodities
including gold, platinum and copper. The index declined less
than 0.1 percent today.  “We’ve been buying the diversified miners, particularly
Anglo, which has come off a lot,” Leinberger said. “We’ve also
been building up a platinum exposure, which we haven’t had for a
while. So we are starting to find value in resource stocks.”  Other rand-hedge stocks that Coronation is holding include
 AECI Ltd. (AFE) , Africa’s largest explosives maker, Omnia Holdings
Ltd., southern Africa’s biggest fertilizer supplier, and
 ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL) , the continent’s biggest
steelmaker, Leinberger said.  Coronation doesn’t own any fixed-rate  government bonds  in
its balanced portfolios after a three-month rally that drove
yields to the lowest since January left debt expensive relative
to the outlook for inflation and interest rates.  “We think bonds are overvalued,” Leinberger said. “There
is some value in inflation-linked bonds but even they are
getting expensive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town Nef at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  