-- 
RBC Hires Goldstein, Smith as U.S. Investment-Banking Managing Directors

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 
2011-06-28T11:57:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/rbc-hires-goldstein-smith-for-u-s-investment-banking-group.html
RBC Capital Markets  hired Mark Goldstein and  Charles Smith  as managing directors in its
financial-sponsor and leveraged-finance groups in New York.  Goldstein joined RBC’s U.S. financial-sponsor investment
banking team from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , where he led the bank’s
restructuring and liability management group for Europe, the
Middle East and Africa, according to an e-mailed statement from
the corporate and investment banking arm of Toronto-based  Royal
Bank of Canada. (RY)  He now reports to Blair Fleming, RBC’s head of
U.S. investment banking.  Smith, who was previously head of corporate finance at
 Loughlin Meghji & Co. , will now focus on the consumer and retail
and industrial sectors and report to Jim Wolfe, head of U.S.
leveraged-finance investment banking. Before joining Loughlin
Meghji, a management consulting firm based in New York, Smith
worked in JPMorgan’s syndicated and leveraged finance group.  RBC Capital Markets  is the 11th largest underwriter of
leveraged loans in the U.S. with 2.5 percent of the market
share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Leveraged loans
are a type of speculative-grade debt rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  Earlier this month, RBC  said  it hired Justin Mirro to lead
its newly formed U.S. automotive investment banking group. In
May, managing director Bill Drewry joined its U.S.-based
communications, media and entertainment group.  Its expansion efforts in April included the hiring of three
managing directors, Joseph Carey in its energy group, Doug Yablonski in its mergers and acquisition team and David Nadelman
in its loan capital markets group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in  New York  at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  