-- 
Tribune Creditors Allowed to Seek Consolidation of Lawsuits

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-06-28T15:45:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/tribune-creditors-allowed-to-seek-consolidation-of-lawsuits.html
Tribune Co.’s noteholders,
represented by  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , won permission to try to
consolidate dozens of lawsuits against the newspaper publisher’s
former shareholders into a single case.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey in Wilmington,
 Delaware , gave a Deutsche Bank unit permission to attempt to
consolidate the cases under a federal rule that puts lawsuits in
scattered jurisdictions under the administration of a single
federal judge. The process makes one judge responsible for most
of the pre-trial disputes over evidence and other issues that
are routine in a lawsuit.  Earlier this month, a unit of Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank
sued dozens of shareholders, brokers and other defendants in at
least 11 states on behalf of Tribune’s pre-buyout noteholders.
Those creditors and others in the lawsuit are owed at least $2.5
billion that can’t be repaid in full because of a 2007 leveraged
buyout, Deutsche Bank Trust Co. Americas said.  Carey yesterday heard final arguments of two groups of
Tribune creditors who are divided over whether to sue or settle
with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and the other lenders behind the $8.3
billion in loans that paid for the media company’s shareholder
buyout.  At the end of today’s hearing, Carey repeated a message he
has given to the two sides before: keep trying to settle.  ‘Continue Your Discussions’  “You still have good reasons to continue your
discussions,” Carey said. He also said that he will begin
working on a decision about which plan, if any, he would approve
“right away.”  Tribune, based in  Chicago , has proposed a plan that is
sponsored by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and two  hedge funds , Angelo
Gordon & Co. and Oaktree Capital Management LP. Their plan would
also raise money for creditors partly through lawsuits, while
settling most claims against the buyout lenders, including New
York-based JPMorgan.  The dozens of shareholder lawsuits filed by Deutsche Bank
and other creditors are part of the strategy devised by  Aurelius
Capital Management LP , which owns Tribune notes issued before
the buyout. The New York-based hedge fund proposed a
reorganization plan that would use lawsuits against
shareholders, the lenders that funded the buyout and others to
collect what pre-buyout creditors are owed.  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  