-- 
Richmond Fed Manufacturing Survey for June (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 
2011-06-28T14:14:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/richmond-fed-manufacturing-survey-for-june-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Richmond Federal Reserve Bank’s manufacturing sector activity
survey for June.  Overview  Manufacturing activity in the central Atlantic region firmed
somewhat in June after stalling in May, according to the Richmond
Fed’s latest survey. The index of overall activity steadied as a
slightly positive reading for new orders coupled with solid
employment growth offset a slightly negative reading for shipments.
Other indicators were mixed, however. District contacts reported
more moderate weakness in backlogs and capacity utilization, but
noted that delivery times and finished goods inventories grew at a
somewhat quicker pace.  Looking ahead, manufacturers in June were more optimistic about
their future business. Survey contacts at an increasing number of
firms looked for solid growth in shipments, capacity utilization,
new orders and  capital expenditures  over the next six months.  Survey assessments of current prices revealed that prices of both
raw materials and finished goods grew at a more measured rate in
June than a month ago. Respondents indicated that during the next
six months they expected growth in raw materials to grow more
quickly and finished goods prices to maintain a steady pace from
what they had anticipated last month.  Current Activity  In June, the seasonally adjusted composite index of manufacturing
activity -- our broadest measure of the sector -- picked up nine
points to 3 from May’s reading of −6. Among the index’s components,
shipments added twelve points to −1, new orders rose sixteen
points to finish at 1, while the jobs index slipped two points to
12.  Other indicators varied. The index for capacity utilization did
not quite escape negative territory, gaining ten points to −2,
while the backlogs of orders edged up three points to end at −16.
In addition, the delivery times index added two points to end at 7,
while our gauges for inventories were mixed in June. The finished
goods inventory index increased eleven points in June to end at 23,
while the raw materials inventories index held constant at 16.  Employment  Hiring activity at District plants was also mixed in June. The
manufacturing employment index eased two points to 12 and the
average workweek measure turned negative, losing five points to −5.
However, wage growth edged higher, gaining three points to finish
at 9.  Expectations  Respondents in the current survey were generally more optimistic
about their business prospects over the next six months. The index
of expected shipments increased seven points to end at 44, and the
volume of new orders index added six points to 46. Backlogs
slipped two points to end at 20, while the capacity utilization
rose six points to 33. Readings for vendor lead time and planned
capital expenditures were virtually unchanged, with the latter
losing one point to finish at 25 and the former registering a one-
point gain to 9.  District manufacturers’ intentions to expand hiring strengthened
somewhat in June. The expected manufacturing employment index
increased four points to end at 21, and the average workweek
indicator held steady at 14. Moreover, the index of expected wages
posted a three-point gain to 31. Prices  District manufacturers reported that raw materials prices
increased at an average annual rate of 4.82 percent in June --
down considerably from 6.12 percent in May. Finished goods prices
rose at a 2.26 percent pace -- somewhat below May’s reading of
3.36 percent.  Looking ahead, respondents expected that the prices they pay will
advance at a 4.28 percent pace, up somewhat from May’s reading of
3.63 percent. Additionally, contacts looked for finished goods
prices to increase at a 2.36 percent annual rate, a tad below last
month’s expected rate of 2.41 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  