-- 
Trichet Urges a New Vision of Europe as Greeks Protest Austerity Measures

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-06-28T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/trichet-urges-new-vision-of-europe-as-greeks-protest-austerity.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  urged policy makers to revitalize the vision
of an integrated  Europe .  “These days, ‘Europe’ and the benefits it brings have come
to be taken for granted,” Trichet said in a speech in Brussels
last night, according to a text provided by the ECB. “Thanks to
the success of European integration, the threat of war has
become a memory of the past for many Europeans, in particular
the younger generation. This makes it all the more urgent to
develop a renewed vision of the kind of Europe we want and
indeed need -- a vision that is easily understood and shared
among European Union citizens.”  Trichet spoke just hours after police fired tear gas to
disperse demonstrators in  Athens  as Greek lawmakers prepared to
vote on austerity measures aimed at averting the euro area’s
first sovereign default.  Greece ’s debt crisis is threatening to
undermine the euro, Europe’s common currency now shared by 17
nations.  “Each generation needs to affirm its commitment to
Europe,” Trichet said. “Revitalizing Europe means” ensuring
that “the burdens of today’s adjustments are not shifted onto
future generations.”  Trichet said the euro has enriched Europe by reducing
companies’ transaction and hedging costs, boosting trade and
creating over 14 million jobs since its 1999 launch.  The ‘E’ in EMU  He praised the ECB’s record on inflation, saying no other
major central bank among euro-area countries had been so
successful in the past 50 years.  “The ECB has a clear assignment: to deliver  price
stability , which is defined as an annual inflation rate below
but close to 2 percent over the medium term,” Trichet said.
“And over the 12 years since the launch of the Economic and
Monetary Union, the average annual inflation rate in the euro
area has been 1.97 percent. It is the ‘E’ of the EMU where
progress is needed.”  He called on governments to improve economic governance and
strengthen rules to prevent unsound policies.  “In the short-term, we have to tackle the most urgent
issues by implementing the structural adjustment programs that
are currently underway,” Trichet said.  For the longer term, he referred to a proposal he made
earlier this month for the establishment of a euro-area  finance
ministry . “Developing these elements in more detail would,
however, be the topic of another speech.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  