-- 
Trichet’s ‘Strong Vigilance’ Comment Signals ECB Rate Increase Next Week

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-06-28T17:51:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/trichet-indicates-ecb-intends-to-raise-interest-rates-at-meeting-next-week.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said policy makers are in “strong vigilance
mode,” signaling they intend to raise  interest rates  next week
even as  Greece  struggles to avert a default.  “We’re taking the decision progressively to anchor
inflation expectations,” Trichet said at a press conference in
Amsterdam today following a seminar with central bankers from
the Asia-Pacific region. “As far as we’re concerned, we’re in
strong vigilance mode,” he said, repeating a phrase the ECB
uses to indicate a rate increase is imminent.  The euro rose more than a cent after the comment to $1.4351
at 1:50 p.m. in  New York . Yields on German two-year notes closed
8 basis points higher at 1.46 percent.  The ECB raised its benchmark rate in April for the first
time in almost three years, lifting it by a quarter point to
1.25 percent. Inflation in the 17-nation euro region has been in
breach of the central bank’s 2 percent limit since December. At
the same time, the threat of a Greek default is roiling European
markets and clouding the economic outlook. ECB officials next
convene in  Frankfurt  on July 7.  Trichet’s comment is “a very strong signal, but it’s
always conditional on what happens in Greece,” said Jens Sondergaard, senior European economist at Nomura International
Plc in  London . “If things go their way, then they’re set for a
rate hike, but Thursday next week is a long way off. Greece
could blow up in the meantime.”  Up to Governments  Trichet declined to comment specifically on the Greek
crisis or a French proposal under which creditors would agree to
roll over 70 percent of their Greek bonds.  “This is the responsibility of governments,” he said.
“There are several proposals being examined. We’re observing
what’s going on. The decision is made by the governments
themselves and then we have our own position.”  Greek police fired tear gas to disperse protesters in the
center of  Athens  today as labor unions shut down government
services before lawmakers vote on austerity measures that are a
condition of further aid for the debt-riddled nation.  “This adjustment program is very, very important,”
Trichet said. “We consider it of the utmost importance that the
Greek democracy would take the appropriate decisions. It is its
own responsibility to redress or adjust the economy of the
country, which is decisive in a medium or long-term perspective
for growth and job creation.”  Bank of  Korea   Also at the press conference were  Bank of Korea  Governor
Kim Choong Soo and Dutch Central Bank Governor Nout Wellink. Kim
was asked if Korea would consider buying Greek debt.  “I can’t say which things we will buy, I’m not in a
position to give an answer,” he said. Asked if he is concerned
about Greece, Kim said: “Our assumption is that these problems
will be solved in a reasonably appropriate way. We didn’t assume
it will cause further problems to the world economy.”  Trichet said anchoring inflation expectations is
“extremely important for the stability, the confidence, and the
prosperity of  Europe .” While central bankers might have “very
different challenges to cope with, we are very united on the
goal of solidly anchoring inflation expectations,” he said.
“That doesn’t mean we have an easy task.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  