-- 
Richmond Fed Service Firm Survey for June (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 
2011-06-28T14:11:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/richmond-fed-service-firm-survey-for-june-text-.html
The following is the text from
the Richmond Federal Reserve Bank’s service sector activity
survey for June.  Overview  The latest survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond showed
a slowdown in service sector activity. Retail sales dipped
overall and big-ticket sales suffered another drop, despite an
uptick in shopper traffic. Inventories declined in June,
according to retail merchants. Non-retail services providers’
revenues also decelerated. Looking ahead six months, retailers
expected the weakness would persist, while contacts at services
firms remained optimistic.  Turning to labor, retail hiring flattened and average retail
wages fell in June. Hiring at services firms was also nearly flat.
Average wages at non-retail establishments rose only slightly
compared to a month ago.  Price changes in the broad service sector almost matched May’s
pace. Within the sector, prices climbed more rapidly at retail
businesses, but the pace slowed somewhat at services firms. For
the six months ahead, survey respondents at retail and non-retail
services firms anticipated prices would advance more quickly than
they had expected in May.  Service Sector  Revenues in the overall service sector weakened in June, pulling
the index to −4 from its previous reading of 9. Growth in the
number of employees slowed, with average wage growth in the
sector flattening this month. The index for the number of
employees lost six points to settle at 3, while the average wage
index skidded to 0 from May’s reading of 22. Following last
month’s softer optimism for future sales, survey participants
withdrew further in June, causing the index for expected demand
to fall to 14 from 20.  Retail Firms  Retail sales declined slightly in June, pulling the index into
negative territory. The revenues index dropped to −2 from its
month-earlier reading of 3. Shopper traffic edged up this month,
perhaps contributing to the drawdown in inventories, but big-
ticket sales remained in the doldrums. The index for shopper
traffic jumped from −29 to 4 in June and the index for
inventories fell nine points to finish at −12. The big-ticket
index persisted at −27 for a second month. Merchants expected
lackluster sales prospects through the summer and into autumn;
the index for expected demand during the next six months remained
at its month ago reading of −4.  District retail employment had no movement in June, with a
reading of 0 after May’s index of 1. Average retail wages
declined, pulling the index seven points lower to −8.  Services Firms  Revenues dropped at non-retail services firms in June, lopping
seventeen points from the index, to end the survey period at −8.
Hiring at services-providing firms also weakened this month, with
that index sliding to −1 from its month-ago reading of 14. Growth
in average wages at services firms faded, softening the index to
6 from 29.  Looking ahead six months, services providers were less
enthusiastic about business prospects than they were in May, with
that index losing seven points. However, they continued to expect
solid growth; the expectations index finished at 18.  Prices  Service sector price change in June remained nearly on pace,
reaching an annualized 0.87 percent rate this month compared to
0.85 percent in May. Within the sector, retail price change
picked up to a 1.79 percent pace following May’s 1.17 percent.
Price change at non-retail services firms moderated to 0.66
percent from 0.85 percent.  For the six months ahead, survey respondents anticipated price
acceleration across the board. Overall, they expected price
change at a 1.60 percent pace, compared with May’s outlook for
1.43 percent. Retailers looked for 2.03 percent growth in prices,
while services providers anticipated 1.52 percent. In May, the
expectation was for price change of 1.94 percent and 1.32 percent,
respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  