-- 
Roche’s Lucentis Helps Diabetics Regain Sight in Eye Disease, Study Finds

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-06-28T16:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/roche-s-lucentis-helps-diabetics-regain-sight-in-eye-disease-study-finds.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Lucentis, a
treatment for age-related vision loss, was effective in treating
eye complications caused by diabetes, two company studies found.  The studies, which together enrolled 759 patients with
diabetic macular edema, found that Lucentis improved vision and
reduced abnormal growth of blood vessels in the eye, according
to the research presented today at the  American Diabetes
Association  meeting in  San Diego . Data also showed that Lucentis
patients were more likely to achieve 20/40 vision -- enough
eyesight to drive -- than those given a placebo treatment.  Macular edema , or swelling of the retina, is common in
diabetes and the leading cause of blindness in working age U.S.
adults, said Anthony Adamis, the global head of ophthalmology at
Basel, Switzerland-based Roche’s Genentech unit. Lucentis was
approved in 2006 for age-related macular degeneration. Roche
plans to submit these studies with U.S. regulators “in the
fall” to seek approval for the indication, Adamis said.  “We’re excited about these data,” Adamis said in an
interview. “This is a difficult disease.”  Almost 30 percent of diabetics older than age 40 had vision
damage from 2005 to 2008, according to the  American Diabetes
Association . Current therapy, developed in 1985, involves the
use of lasers to slow the rate of loss, Adamis said.  Macular edema  occurs when extra fluid leaks from blood
vessels in the eye, causing swelling and damage to the retina.
Lucentis is designed to block a protein called VEGF, which
encourages blood vessels to leak the fluid. Inhibiting VEGF
stops the leaks, Adamis said.  Like Avastin  Roche’s cancer drug Avastin, which costs less than
Lucentis, also targets VEGF and doctors sometimes use it off-
label to treat patients with age-related macular degeneration.
Avastin costs $50 per shot, while Lucentis costs about $2,000
for each injection. Avastin may raise risks of death and stroke
compared with Lucentis, according to an analysis of Medicare
data released in May.  In the 377-patient study dubbed RISE, about 45 percent of
patients taking a 0.3 milligram dose of Lucentis and 39 percent
of those on 0.5 milligrams were able to read an additional 15
letters on an  eye chart  after treatment, compared with about 18
percent of those getting a sham treatment. About 63 percent of
those on the higher Lucentis dose recovered enough vision to be
able to legally drive, compared with 38 percent of those getting
a placebo in the RISE trial.  Two Sets of Results  In a 382-patient trial, dubbed RIDE, patients were grouped
into the same three groups as before. In this trial, 34 percent
on a low dose of Lucentis and 46 percent of those on a higher
dose recovered 15 or more letters on the  eye chart , compared
with 12 percent of patients getting a sham treatment. About 54
percent on the low dose of Lucentis and 62 percent on the high
dose, had enough eyesight restored to be able to drive, compared
with about 35 percent receiving a placebo.  In the RIDE study, 11.5 percent of patients who didn’t get
the eye drug went on to  worsened disease , compared with 3.2
percent of patients who were on the low dose of Lucentis and 3.9
percent on the high dose.  Most of the patients started with vision of about 20/80,
meaning their vision at 20 feet was the same as the average
person’s vision at 80 feet, said David Boyer, a doctor at the
Retina-Vitreous Associates Medical Group in  Los Angeles , who
presented the results today.  “We now have a treatment that causes a rapid, significant
sustained improvement,” Boyer said. “Getting 60 percent of
patients to 20/40 vision, allowing them to drive without
restrictions is significant.”  Lucentis was developed by Roche’s Genentech unit and Basel,
Switzerland-based  Novartis AG. (NOVN)  Roche markets Lucentis in the
U.S., while Novartis sells the drug in the rest of the world.
Lucentis generated $1.4 billion in sales last year, according to
Bloomberg data.  -- Editors: Angela Zimm, Andrew Pollack  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 