-- 
Russia Urges End to Syria Violence, Supports Political Talks

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-06-28T11:17:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/russia-urges-end-to-syria-violence-supports-political-talks-1-.html
Russia ’s envoy to Africa Mikhail Margelov called for an end to “all forms of violence” in  Syria 
and urged talks after meeting a delegation of human rights
activists from the Middle Eastern country.  “We want to see an end to all forms of violence,”
Margelov told reporters in Moscow today. “For us, the important
thing is political dialogue.”  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said last week that Syria
must be pressured to end its crackdown on opposition supporters,
the first time Russia has distanced itself from President Bashar
al-Assad since protests against his 11-year rule began in mid-
March.  At least 1,450 civilians have been killed in the unrest,
according to Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for
Human Rights, and  Ammar Qurabi , head of the National
Organization for Human Rights. At least 20,000 people have been
detained, Qurabi said yesterday.  Putin said June 21 that Russia has no “special interests”
in Syria, a Soviet-era ally, and that the Syrian leadership
should stop using methods that lead to civilian deaths.  Russia changed its stance on  Libya  last month, calling for
the first time for the departure of leader  Muammar Qaddafi , who
has maintained close ties with Russia.  Russia abstained from the United Nations Security Council
vote in March that authorized a NATO-led military intervention
in Libya and has repeatedly criticized the allies for going
beyond the UN mandate aimed at protecting civilians.  The International Criminal Court yesterday issued arrest
warrants for Qaddafi, his son Saif al-Islam Qaddafi and military
intelligence chief Abdullah al-Senussi. The three men are wanted
for killing, injuring, arresting and imprisoning hundreds of
civilians during anti-regime protests that began in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  