-- 
Russia’s RTS Futures Rise on Commodities Surge, Greek Optimism

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-06-28T21:28:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/russia-s-rts-futures-rise-on-commodities-surge-greek-optimism.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
gained, signaling shares may rise today in Moscow, as
commodities surged, bolstering the outlook for producers.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in
September gained 0.4 percent yesterday. Contracts on OAO
Rosneft, the country’s biggest oil company, rose 0.6 percent and
OAO Lukoil, the country’s second largest, added 0.3 percent.
Agreements on OAO Gazprom, the world’s largest gas producer,
climbed 0.2 percent, while those on OAO Sberbank, Russia’s
biggest lender, increased 0.2 percent.  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities gained 2.2 percent
yesterday, the most in more than a month, as crude oil futures
jumped and copper climbed. Russian futures were also bolstered
by optimism that Greek lawmakers will vote for a package of
austerity measures today that will help the country avoid
defaulting on its debt, Geoffrey Dennis, Citigroup Inc.’s global
emerging-market strategist, said in an e-mailed report.  “This will ‘kick the can down the road,’ allowing EM
investors to focus back on the fundamentals,” he wrote.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, also produces
metals including steel, copper, nickel, gold, palladium and
aluminum. Oil and natural gas make up a quarter of its economic
output.  Crude for August delivery rose 2.5 percent to settle at
$92.89 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday.
Futures have gained 19 percent in the past year and have fallen
13 percent so far in the second quarter.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.3 percent
yesterday in New York and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose
0.8 percent.  Greece Debate  Lawmakers debated Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s five-
year plan of budget cuts and asset sales for a second day before
a vote today at 2 p.m. Athens time. The vote has to succeed for
the cash-strapped nation to tap a fifth loan payment from last
year’s 110 billion euro ($157 billion) rescue. Failure to pass
the government’s 78 billion euro plan may lead to the euro
area’s first sovereign default.  Russia’s 30-stock, ruble-denominated Micex index added 1.5
percent at yesterday’s close in Moscow, its strongest since June
16. OAO Uralkali, the country’s largest potash producer, surged
5 percent. The dollar-denominated RTS Index rose 1.7 percent to
1,874.34.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, gained 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  