-- 
Russia’s Norilsk Plans to Invest $370 Million to Double Arctic Shipments

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 
2011-06-28T09:05:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/russia-s-norilsk-plans-to-invest-370-million-to-double-arctic-shipments.html
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the largest
Russian mining company, plans to spend $370 million to double
its shipments across the  Arctic Ocean  by 2016 as global warming
allows the route to rival the journey through the  Suez Canal .  Norilsk will raise deliveries of metal and coal through the
Northern Sea Route from  Russia ’s Murmansk port, near  Finland , to
 China  and  South Korea , Deputy Chief Executive Officer Sergey
Buzov said. The company shipped 10,000 metric tons in 2010.  The project has proved “very successful,” he said in an
interview in Moscow. Transportation costs are $120 a ton, he
said, less than half that using the traditional passage through
Suez, location of the world’s busiest international canal.  Shrinking of  Arctic  sea ice to its third-smallest  size  on
record last year is opening previously frozen routes. Iceland’s
President Olafur Ragnar Grimsson said in 2010 the pace of global
warming in the Arctic was three times faster than elsewhere,
shrinking journeys between Asia,  Europe  and America by 40
percent to 50 percent and luring interest from nearby countries.  OAO Novatek, a natural-gas company, and OAO Lukoil, an oil
producer, are among Russian businesses anticipating they will be
able to save money using the Arctic route to meet surging Asian
demand for commodities. While the journey still needs the use of
icebreakers as escorts or ice-class transportation vessels, it
takes 18 days, compared with about 40 through Suez, Buzov said.  Retreating Ice  “The thinning and retreat of Arctic ice is combining with
the thawing of the permafrost in northern Russia to make
shipping via the Northeast Sea Route increasingly attractive and
active during the lengthening summer season,” said Cleo Paskal,
associate fellow at  Chatham House , a policy adviser in  London .
“This raises a series of urgent security, political and
economic issues, and has the potential to turn the Bering Strait
into a critical strategic chokepoint.”  Russia is seeking to expand its presence in the Arctic and
claims the underwater Lomonosov Ridge that links Siberia to the
Arctic Sea bed, allowing the country to extend its reach to the
 North Pole . Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  in September
called for a “zone of peace” in the region as it opens up as a
source of energy production and a transportation hub.  Novatek, Russia’s second-largest gas producer, may export
as many as seven condensate, or light crude, cargoes via Arctic
waters this year as it tests the route with liquefied natural
gas for Asia. A suezmax tanker, with more than 120,000 tons
deadweight, will be sent for the first time through the northern
route in August, billionaire CEO Leonid Mikhelson said June 17.  More Profitable  “Northern sea shipping will become a more profitable route
than the Suez Canal,” he told reporters in  St. Petersburg .
“This is already clear if you look at the contracts signed.”  Since 2004, Norilsk has spent $720 million on five ice-
class container ships for carrying metals and one tanker, Buzov
said. They can cut through ice as thick as 1.5 meters (5 feet).  In addition, the company will build a $170 million ice-
class container ship by 2016 with equivalent capacity of 1,450
standard 20-foot containers, twice as large as its current
vessels. The ship will deliver metals and cargoes such as
sulfur, a byproduct of Norilsk’s metals output. Exports of
coking coal, due to be mined from Norilsk’s north Siberian
projects, will also be economically viable.  Norilsk plans to spend $200 million on infrastructure,
including on the Arctic port of Dudinka and a railroad from its
smelters, Buzov said. The nickel company, which also produces
natural-gas in Siberia to supply its metals manufacturing, will
ship as much as 200,000 tons of gas condensate to Amsterdam and
bring back oil products, he said.  The company plans regular voyages across the Artic Ocean,
Buzov said, adding that ships returning to Russia may bring back
metals concentrate from its mines in Australia and  Asia .  Arctic sea  ice covered an average 4.90 million square
kilometers (1.89 million square miles) in September 2010, the
third lowest on record for the month, according to data on the
website of the U.S. National Snow and Ice Data Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  