-- 
SADC Won’t Intervene to Return Exiled President Ravalomanana to Madagascar

-- B y   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h
-- 
2011-06-28T14:09:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/sadc-won-t-intervene-in-madagascar-to-open-way-for-ravalomanana-s-return.html
The South African Development
Community won’t intervene to secure the return of Madagascar’s
exiled former president,  Marc Ravalomanana , to the Indian Ocean
island nation, said the regional body’s envoy, Leonardo Simao.  “SADC does not have the authority to annul a sentence
imposed on a citizen,” Simao told reporters yesterday in
Antananarivo, the Madagascan capital. “SADC respects the
sovereignty and the responsibilities of member states.”  Heads-of-state from SADC, a grouping of 15 countries
including  South Africa , called for Madagascar to allow
Ravalomanana’s “unconditional” return as part of efforts to
end a political crisis sparked by him being ousted by Andry Rajoelina with the help of the military in 2009. Rajoelina’s
government warned that Ravalomanana will be arrested if he
returns after being found guilty of the deaths of protesters.  The refusal to agree to the June 12 SADC resolution after
two years of negotiation may extend the country’s international
isolation and discredit elections expected within a year. The
2009 coup led to Madagascar’s suspension from SADC and the
 African Union  and led to donors stopping aid that made up two-
thirds of state revenue.  Ravalomanana said he won’t sign an SADC mediation deal
unless he is allowed to return to the country without being
arrested. “The SADC heads of state were clear that my return is
unconditional,” he said by phone from Johannesburg today.  Madagascar will hold “at least one election” this year,
Prime Minister Camille Vital told reporters in Antananarivo. The
country is expected to hold both parliamentary and presidential
votes.  Madagascar is the world’s largest vanilla grower, while
oil, nickel and titanium products have also attracted investor
interest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah McNeish in Johannesburg at 
 hmcneish@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  