-- 
Safeway Rolls Out Natural Foods to Avoid Becoming ‘Road Kill’

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-06-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/safeway-rolls-out-natural-foods-to-avoid-becoming-road-kill-.html
To celebrate its new line of foods
made with natural ingredients,  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  built the world’s
largest picnic table on  San Francisco ’s Marina Green, looking
out onto the Golden Gate Bridge, and hired Food Network chef
Tyler Florence to cook up meals using the items.  The brand, called  Open Nature , rolled out in January and
features sausages, ice creams, salad dressings, breads and
yogurts -- all made without artificial colors, flavors or
preservatives. The market for natural foods, which aren’t
necessarily organic or low in fat or calories, is worth $4
billion, and it’s largely untapped by big food stores,
Pleasanton, California-based Safeway says.  Safeway Chief Executive Officer Steven Burd is using Open
Nature, along with lower prices and a revamped website that
offers personalized digital coupons, to lure back shoppers who
flocked to cheaper competitors such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
during the recession. Whole Foods Market Inc., meanwhile, has
done a better job of attracting a wealthier clientele.  “Safeway is in a difficult position: They can’t compete on
price with Wal-Mart, they can’t compete on quality with Whole
Foods and they can’t compete on service with the smaller
regional chains,” said David Livingston, a grocery consultant
and president of  DJL Research LLC .  “Safeway is a middle-of-
the-road, vanilla grocery store. In the middle of the road is
where you find road kill.”  The company estimates that sales, excluding gasoline, at
its stores open for at least a year will rise as much as 1.5
percent in 2011, after declining 2 percent last year.  Faster-Growing Rivals  Safeway shares have risen less than 1 percent this year,
compared with an 8.2 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Food Retail Index. More analysts rate the stock a “sell” than
“buy,” and almost half consider it a “hold,” according to a
Bloomberg survey.  Kroger Co. (KR) , the largest U.S. supermarket chain, earlier
this month increased its sales forecast for fiscal 2011 to 3.5
percent to 4.5 percent growth, from earlier projections of 3
percent to 4 percent. Whole Foods, the largest U.S. natural-
goods grocer, also boosted its full-year earnings projections in
early May, after reporting a 33 percent jump in second-quarter
profit.  “We are perfectly positioned at this point to please the
consumer,” said Melissa Plaisance, Safeway’s senior vice
president of finance and investor relations. “We have the right
pricing, we have the strongest quality, we have the right
facilities.”  Remodeled Stores  Safeway invested billions of dollars to revamp its stores
since 2004, betting that consumers wanted a more upscale
shopping experience. It remodeled 85 percent of its almost 1,700
locations to add softer lighting, faux wood floors, expanded
deli and bakery departments, sushi bars and Starbucks kiosks.  While the move helped the company generate higher sales
during the housing boom, when consumers were feeling flush, the
benefit was lost when the economic crisis hit, said John Rand,
senior vice president at consulting firm  Kantar Retail .  “The problem with that strategy is that it ran into a
recession,” Rand said. “Then people became value- and price-
focused,” and Safeway “didn’t shift strategy to match.”  Declining consumer confidence and unemployment remain a
challenge for retailers trying to persuade shoppers to open
their wallets. A Bloomberg National Poll conducted June 17-20
found that two years after the start of the recovery, 25 percent
of those surveyed worried the economy was getting worse, while
23 percent said they were hopeful the recovery was improving.  Frequent-Shopper Data  Safeway needs to make a bigger effort to court bargain
hunters, said Meredith Adler, an analyst at Barclays Capital
Inc. in  New York .  “They’ve got to be more aggressive on price,” Adler said.
“And they should use their frequent-shopper data more
effectively.”  Safeway’s Plaisance says the company has adjusted its
strategy and is better positioned now to win back shoppers.
Sales at stores open at least a year rose 0.4 percent in the
first quarter, compared with a decline of 3.1 percent a year
ago.  In addition to offering new products such as its Open
Nature line, the company is trying to use its customer database
better to offer personalized  deals  to shoppers. The program,
called “Just for U,” is being expanded from a few regions this
year and includes access to what Safeway calls one of the
largest digital grocery coupon site in  North America .  “When you make the magnitude of price investment that we
made, it takes consumers a little while to catch on and
understand what you’ve done and appreciate it, and change some
of their buying habits,” she said. “We feel like it’s starting
to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  