-- 
Same-Sex Marriage Backed by 54% of New Yorkers, Quinnipiac Says

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-06-28T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/same-sex-marriage-backed-by-54-of-new-yorkers-quinnipiac-says.html
A law allowing same-sex couples to
marry is backed by 54 percent of New Yorkers in a poll taken the
week Governor  Andrew Cuomo  signed a bill making New York the
sixth and most populous U.S. state to legalize gay nuptials.  Forty percent of registered voters surveyed said they were
opposed to same-sex marriage, according the survey by  Quinnipiac
University . Most support came from voters under age 35, who
backed the law 70 percent to 26 percent. Those over 65 opposed
it 57 percent to 37 percent.  The poll , conducted by telephone June 20-26, showed support
remained at the same level before and after the state enacted
the measure late on June 24. Cuomo signed the bill after the
Republican-controlled Senate voted 33-29 to approve it.  “Throughout the down-to-the-wire drama and the narrow
margin in the state Senate, voter support for same-sex marriage
has been consistent,” said  Maurice Carroll , director of the
Quinnipiac University Polling Institute in Hamden, Connecticut,
in a statement.  Opposition from religious leaders to same-sex marriage
doesn’t affect their attitudes on the issue, 70 percent of
voters said. Catholic Archbishop Timothy Dolan opposed the New
York bill.  New York joined Iowa, Vermont,  New Hampshire , Massachusetts
and Connecticut in allowing gay couples to wed.  Democratic state Senators Shirley Huntley and Joseph Addabbo Jr. of Queens, who voted against a similar bill in 2009,
each said they switched their position to reflect shifts in
support among their constituents.  The survey interviewed 1,317 registered voters for a margin
of error of 2.7 percentage points, the poll said in a news
release.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  