-- 
Sampras Sees No. 1 Nadal Eclipsing His Mark of 14 Grand Slam Tennis Titles

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-06-28T17:49:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/sampras-sees-no-1-nadal-eclipsing-his-mark-of-14-grand-slam-tennis-titles.html
Pete Sampras  said  Rafael Nadal  will
eclipse his total of 14 Grand Slam tennis titles and perhaps
challenge  Roger Federer ’s mark, the only one higher in the men’s
game.  Sampras said he expects Federer to win his seventh
Wimbledon title at the All England Club in  London  this year,
matching the record shared by the American and  William Renshaw 
and extending the Swiss right-hander’s career mark of Grand Slam
championships to 17. Nadal, the defending Wimbledon champion,
needs five more major titles to pass Sampras’s old mark, which
Federer broke in 2009.  “If you break down his game and what he’s been able to do
on all surfaces, he’s only 24 and he’s got 10 majors, you do the
math,” Sampras, 39, said in a conference call with reporters.
“Obviously, I think he’s going to pass me at some stage.”  Nadal, who turned 25 this month, has won major titles on
clay, grass and hard courts since turning pro in 2001. The left-
handed Spaniard has held the ATP World Tour’s No. 1 rank since
last year.  Nadal’s opportunity to eclipse the 29-year-old Federer’s
record will depend on how he manages his playing time and the
physical toll of his playing style, Sampras said. Nadal plays
with an intensity that has led to shoulder and knee injuries.  “The all-time record is a lot of work, and Roger obviously
can continue to add to his list,” Sampras said. “But if Rafa
is smart with his schedule and plans it out right, he can very
well do it. We all know how hard he works.”  Injury History  Nadal pulled out of the Madrid Masters in 2008 citing knee
tendinitis, and in 2009 was unable to defend his Wimbledon title
because of the same injury. Nadal has announced that he won’t
participate in Davis Cup matches next week, a move Sampras said
he understood.  “Something has to give,” Sampras said. “If you want to
stay No. 1 and you want to win majors, there’s not enough weeks
in the year to play Davis Cup.”  Sampras retired in 2002 having spent 286 weeks as the
world’s top-ranked men’s player. He spoke with reporters in
coordination with this fall’s Champions Series, a 12-city tour
scheduled to include former Grand Slam winners  Andre Agassi ,  Jim Courier  and  John McEnroe .  The men’s Wimbledon quarterfinals are scheduled tomorrow.
Federer will play Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of  France  and top-seeded
Nadal will face  Mardy Fish , the lone American remaining in the
tournament.  The men’s championship is scheduled for July 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  