-- 
Saudis May Not Pump Intended 10 Million Barrels After IEA Move

-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 
2011-06-28T15:06:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/saudis-may-not-pump-intended-10-million-barrels-after-iea-move.html
Saudi Arabia  may not increase crude
oil output to 10 million barrels a day in July as it intended,
as the  International Energy Agency’s  planned stockpile release
of 60 million barrels will keep the market “well supplied”
during the month, analysts say.  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg now expect Saudi Arabia to
increase output in July to 9.5 million barrels a day from around
9 million in June to meet its international commitments, while
meeting local demand that is expected to rise this summer due to
a surge in electricity use.  Saudi Arabia aims to fulfill Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi’s
pledge to raise production to help calm oil markets, after
members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
disagreed this month over his proposed 1.5 million barrels-a-day
increase in the group’s output.  Al-Hayat newspaper, citing senior OPEC officials, reported
after the meeting that the kingdom will boost output to 10
million barrels a day in July, the highest level in more than
two decades. Now, analysts say this may not be the case after
the IEA’s planned stockpile release of 60 million barrels over
30 days, or 2 million barrels a day.  Barclays Plc analysts led by  Paul Horsnell  said in an e-
mailed note yesterday that the use of strategic petroleum
reserves, particularly when Saudi Arabia has restated its
commitment to supply customers with the crude they need, may
result in fewer oil exports from Saudi Arabia in the coming
months.  “If this release is not coordinated with Saudi Arabia, the
Saudis will cut production to neutralize the effect of the
release,” Anas Alhajji, chief economist at Irving, Texas-based
NGP Energy Capital Management, said in an e-mail today.  Saudi Oil Production  “The IEA’s move will give the Saudis sometime before they
need to increase output to that high level,” said  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief economist at  National Commercial Bank , Saudi
Arabia’s largest lender in terms of assets.  Kotilaine said in a telephone interview that Saudi Arabia
intended to boost oil production to more than 10 million barrels
a day by July, which would be the highest level in more than 25
years. Ongoing efforts by Saudi Arabia to dramatically boost
output might prove counterproductive, he added.  Saudi extraction has come to rely heavily on water
injection, which will ultimately curb potential production, he
said. Moreover, the high sulfur content in Saudi oil means that
the costs of refining it are higher than elsewhere, so the
market may not take most of the additional output the kingdom is
planning to pump, Kotilaine said.  While Saudi oil output will increase, one has to
distinguish between the local and international drivers, said
John Sfakianakis, chief economist at Riyadh-based Banque Saudi
Fransi.  “Output will increase due to local demand but Saudi Arabia
would find it hard to supply more oil for the global market,
given current supply fundamentals and global demand,” he said.  IEA, Saudi Arabia Coordination  Market supplies will become tighter if OPEC doesn’t
increase production, and while Saudi Arabia will “definitely”
raise its output, that will take time, IEA Executive Director
 Nobuo Tanaka  said in Beijing on June 25.  IEA’s planned stockpile release of 60 million barrels over
30 days, or 2 million barrels a day, is less than a quarter of
Saudi Arabia’s output, and below the Middle Eastern nation’s
spare production capacity, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Noe van Hulst, secretary general of the  International
Energy Forum  said that the IEA’s stockpile release must have
been made in coordination with large producers such Saudi
Arabia.  “I’m not surprised to see such a move from the IEA, as
discussions on replacing supplies from  Libya  were eminent in
recent months,” he said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“Coordination between producers and consumers was also intense
and everyone is working closely.”  Analysts such as Alhajji say Saudi Arabia must have known
of the IEA move in advance. “There are indications that the
release might have been coordinated with the Saudis,” Alhajji
said.  The main issue after the IEA release of 60 million barrels
is “to see whether companies will use all of it, as historical
records show that only a portion of the release is sold or
swapped,” Alhajji said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Khobar at   wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  