-- 
Scene Last Night: Blair, Stephanopoulos, Altman, Arnhold, Soros

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-06-28T14:14:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/scene-last-night-tony-blair-stephanopoulos-altman-ziff-arnhold-soros.html
Perched on white bar stools, former
Prime Minister  Tony Blair  and George Stephanopoulos, the anchor
of ABC’s “Good Morning America,” discussed the financial
crisis in Greece, the Arab Spring and the environment.  “There are powerful reasons of energy security,” Blair
said of his country’s investments in green technology. “Why
wouldn’t you try to have a more stable and secure source of
energy?”  The 15-minute interview was over before guests at the
 Conservation International  gala last night had finished their
summer corn custard. They included  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) 
founder  Roger Altman , Continental Grain Co. Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Paul Fribourg, and SambaEnergy.com Chairman
Jack Hidary.  Blair then left the dinner, held in the Milstein Hall of
Ocean Life at the American Museum of Natural History.
Stephanopoulos stayed on to conduct interviews via Skype with
Conservation International staffers in Brazil,  Japan  and
Liberia.  The gala’s sponsors included Ann Ziff, jewelry designer and
chairman of the Metropolitan Opera; Altman and his wife, Jurate
Kazickas; and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which Blair serves as a
senior adviser. The bank’s foundation recently gave $1 million
to Conservation International to protect forests.  Peter Seligmann, the founder of Conservation International,
also counts family members among the organization’s supporters,
including his first cousin John Arnhold, chairman of First Eagle
Investment Management LLC.  Seligmann is good at forging partnerships with the private
sector, in part because he deploys language that appeals to
executives.  “A healthy ecosystem needs all types of capital,”
Seligmann said. “Intellectual, economic, and natural.”  Midsummer Night Swing  At  Lincoln Center , Midsummer Night Swing kicked off with a
party honoring the program’s longtime funders, Daisy Soros and
her husband, Paul Soros, brother of George.  The festivities took place under a tent near the official
Midsummer Night Swing dance floor, which will see thousands of
people tango, swing and vogue to live bands through July 16.  So how is  George Soros  on the dance floor? “He’s not
bad,” Daisy Soros said. “I mean, for a financier he does
pretty good.”  Kenneth A. Buckfire, co-founder, CEO, and managing director
of Miller Buckfire & Co. LLC was in attendance, as were Janice
and Christopher Williams, co-founders of Williams Capital Group
LP, and John Chachas, managing partner, Methuselah Capital
Advisors LP.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 