-- 
Senators Say Simplifying U.S. Code Would Narrow Tax Gap

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-06-28T19:12:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/senators-say-simplifying-u-s-code-would-narrow-tax-gap-1-.html
Finding a way to simplify the U.S.
tax code would enable the federal government to narrow the $345
billion annual gap between what taxpayers owe and what they pay,
Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  said at a hearing.  “Complexity makes it hard for taxpayers who honestly want
to pay their taxes to figure out what they actually owe, and as
a result, they often overpay or underpay,” said Baucus, a
Montana Democrat, at the hearing today.  Baucus said that in 1987, the year after the last major
overhaul of the tax code, the Internal Revenue instruction
booklet for individual filers was 56 pages. By 2009 it had grown
to 174 pages, Baucus said. The hearing was one of a series of
meetings Baucus is holding as Congress mulls an overhaul of the
tax system.  David Kirkham, a maker of custom cars in Provo,  Utah , and a
Tea Party supporter, asked lawmakers at the hearing to
streamline the code so he can hire workers for his factory
instead of lawyers and accountants to calculate his tax
liability.  “It’s immoral for you guys to have laws so complicated
that I have to hire people” to figure them out, Kirkham said.  Baucus asked Kirkham what he would do to simplify the
code.  Looking at Simplification  “I would eliminate all loopholes,” Kirkham said.  “What would those be?” Baucus asked, and Kirkham said he
didn’t know. “I pay somebody else to do that,” Kirkham said.  Kirkham said in a phone interview later that he was invited
to the hearing by Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah, the ranking
Republican on the Finance panel, who may face a primary
challenger next year backed by the Tea Party. Kirkham and other
Tea Party members appeared yesterday at National Republican
Senatorial Committee headquarters to protest Hatch’s endorsement
by the group.  “You’ve got to hand it to Senator Hatch,” Kirkham said.
“He’s been reaching out.”  Michael Brostek, director of  tax policy  and administration
for the Government Accountability Office, said it isn’t known
how much of the tax gap is traceable to the complexity of the
code. “Certainly some significant portion is,” Brostek said.  National Taxpayer Advocate Nina Olson said the IRS is a
victim of the tax code, too.  “Complexity makes it hard for the IRS to treat all
taxpayers well because it’s so complex for them,” she said.  Neither Baucus nor Hatch offered an estimate of how much a
simpler  tax code  might narrow the tax gap.  Hatch cautioned against expecting too much.  “It would be a mistake to put too much deficit reduction
hope into that tax gap basket,” Hatch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  