-- 
Senators Question Obama Assertion Libya Mission Not Hostilities

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-06-28T18:13:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/senators-question-obama-assertion-libya-mission-not-hostilities.html
President  Barack Obama ’s assertion
that U.S. warplanes aren’t engaged in hostilities by helping
allies bomb Libya was greeted with skepticism from Democrats and
Republicans at a Senate hearing.  Lawmakers challenged the president’s argument by
questioning State Department legal adviser Harold Koh, whose
opinion formed the basis of Obama’s assertion.  The 1973 War Powers Resolution, enacted during the Vietnam
war, requires the president to notify Congress of any
hostilities in 48 hours and to withdraw forces in 60 to 90 days
if Congress doesn’t authorize the mission. Obama contends he
doesn’t need congressional authorization for the Libya mission.  “Are you glad you created an issue” by having “basically
taken a stick” to “stick it in the eye of Congress?”
Tennessee Republican Bob Corker asked Koh at the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee hearing today in  Washington .  “If you felt a stick was stuck, that is not the goal,”
Koh said.  The committee plans later today to consider a proposed
bipartisan resolution that would authorize, for up to a year,
U.S. support of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s
bombardment of forces loyal to Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi .  Last week, the  House of Representatives   refused  to
 authorize  Obama to continue support of the NATO mission. Even
so, members also  defeated  legislation intended to bar U.S.
forces from engaging in hostilities. The House will likely
revisit the issue next month when it resumes debate, after a
week-long recess, on defense appropriations.  ‘Narrow’ Role  Koh, a former Yale Law School dean who wrote about the War
Powers Resolution during his academic career, said the
“narrow” role of U.S. warplanes in the mission doesn’t meet
the definition of hostilities.  The circumstances in  Libya  are “virtually unique,” he
said, because the “exposure of our armed forces is limited,
there have been no U.S. casualties, no threat of U.S.
casualties” and “no exchange of fire with hostile forces.”  With a “limited risk of serious escalation” and the
“limited military means” employed by U.S. forces, “we are not
in hostilities envisioned by the War Powers Resolution, Koh
said.  Corker told Koh his advice to the president has
“undermined the credibility of this administration” and the
integrity of the War Powers Resolution.  By “taking this very narrow approach, you have done a
great disservice to our country,” Corker said.  Constituents Mystified  Democrats and Republicans said they and their constituents
were mystified by the administration’s view.  Pennsylvania Democrat Bob Casey said voters in his state
“have real concerns about this policy, just in the clear
impression that’s been created that we are engaged in
hostilities of one kind or another.”  Virginia Democrat James Webb told Koh that Obama had taken
a “contorted legal definition of hostilities.”  “I would say that’s hostilities” when “you have an
operation that goes on for months, that costs billions of
dollars” and U.S. warplanes “dropping bombs and killing
people,” Webb said.  The panel’s chairman, Massachusetts Democrat  John Kerry ,
defended the president, saying the resolution doesn’t apply
because “no American troops are on the ground and we are not
going to put them there.”  Delaware Democrat  Chris Coons  also supported Obama, telling
Koh that he found “your focus on unique facts of this situation
largely compelling.”  ‘Expedience’ Over ‘Responsibility’  Indiana Senator Dick Lugar, the panel’s top Republican,
disagreed and said Obama’s decision not to seek a congressional
authorization put “expedience above constitutional
responsibility.”  Lugar said U.S. forces are contributing 70 percent of the
intelligence capabilities and most refueling for the mission.  “The fact that we are leaving most of the war shooting to
other countries does not mean that the  United States  is not
involved in acts of war,” Lugar said.  Koh said U.S. warplanes have fired only 10 percent of the
bombs deployed and that Predator drones fired missiles on
“discrete targets’” to aid civilian protection.  Koh declined to comment on news reports that administration
lawyers disagreed over whether the War Powers Resolution applied
to the Libya mission. The New York Times reported that Obama
overruled lawyers at the Justice and Defense Departments who
argued that the Libyan operation should require approval from
Congress.  Lugar has proposed amendments to the resolution sponsored
by Kerry and Arizona Republican  John McCain  that would limit
U.S. military activities to aerial refueling of NATO planes,
intelligence or surveillance flights and search and rescue
missions. That language is similar to the defeated House measure
to bar U.S. forces from engaging in hostilities.  Ohio Democratic Representative Dennis Kucinich and Michigan
Republican Justin Amash have introduced an amendment that would
bar all U.S. funds for the Libya mission, starting Oct. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  