-- 
Senators Propose Raising Medicare Entrance Age to Cut Costs

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-06-28T19:51:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/senators-propose-raising-medicare-entrance-age-to-cut-costs-1-.html
Two U.S. senators known for having
independent streaks are proposing to overhaul Medicare by
raising the eligibility age by two years and requiring the
wealthy to pay more out of pocket for care.  Senators Tom Coburn, the conservative Oklahoma Republican
known for objecting to legislation, and  Joseph Lieberman , the
Connecticut independent and former member of the Democratic
caucus, introduced their proposal today. The government projects
Medicare, the U.S. health insurance program for the elderly and
disabled, will run out of funds to pay full benefits in 2024.  “We can’t save Medicare as we know it,” Lieberman said in
a statement. “We can only save Medicare if we change it.”  Their proposal would save $600 billion in a decade, the
lawmakers said in an e-mailed release in advance of announcing
their plan.  The two are the latest of several groups of lawmakers to
attempt to trim Medicare spending as part of a broader
congressional effort to trim the  U.S. budget deficit  on the way
to a deal to raise the country’s statutory borrowing limit.  The top Democrat in the U.S. House, Representative  Nancy Pelosi  of  California , quickly rejected Coburn and Leiberman’s
plan. “This proposal is unacceptable, especially for struggling
middle-class Americans,” she said in a statement. “It is
unfair to ask seniors to get less in benefits and wait longer to
get onto Medicare,” she said.  Pelosi’s Solution  Democrats in the House and Senate are pushing to end
corporate tax breaks to raise revenue, which Pelosi said would
be a more fair solution.  Along with raising the eligibility age, Leiberman and
Coburn’s  plan  would put a three-year halt to scheduled cuts to
Medicare’s payment rates for physicians.  Proposals to fix Medicare won’t be viable without support
from the Obama administration, said Senator  Charles Grassley ,
the Iowa Republican.  “I respect people that want to do things to Medicare, a
lot of things have to be done to Medicare,” Grassley said in an
interview. “If the president isn’t going to sign it, you’re
spinning your wheels. That wouldn’t be true of 99 out of 100
things that we’re doing. But on entitlements, it’s important,”
Grassley said.  Coburn and Leiberman would also cap the amount Medicare
beneficiaries have to pay for care in the event of a serious
illness. Medicare currently requires people in the program to
pay a share of the costs for each hospital stay, amounts that
can rise quickly with long-term illness or the need for
intensive care.  Private Policies  About 90 percent of Medicare beneficiaries already buy
private insurance policies to protect against those sorts of
cost-sharing requirements, according to the  Menlo Park ,
California-based  Kaiser Family Foundation . The supplemental
policies are sold by insurers led by Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  and Indianapolis, Indiana-based
 WellPoint Inc. (WLP)   An e-mail to  Robert Zirkelbach , spokesman for industry
trade group America’s Health Insurance Plans, was not
immediately returned.  The senators’ proposal would limit the scope of those
policies, though insurers would now have a new market of people
ages 65 and 66 years old to sell coverage.  Lieberman  proposed  a similar plan on June 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 