-- 
Shekel Drops For Second Day as Bank Holds Interest Rates

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-06-28T14:14:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/shekel-drops-for-second-day-as-bank-holds-interest-rates.html
The shekel fell for a second day
after the Bank of  Israel  left interest rates unchanged, damping
demand for the currency as signs of a weakening global economy
threaten to slow growth.  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  held the benchmark
lending rate at 3.25 percent, the central bank said yesterday
after 10 increases in two years. All 24 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast the decision. The bank cited concern about
slower U.S. economic growth and worsening debt risks in  Europe .  “Following the halt in interest rates, investors’ demand
for the shekel, which is spurred by a widening interest-rate
differential with the U.S., is a little reduced,” Eytan Admoni,
head of the international department at Bank of Jerusalem Ltd.,
said by telephone.  The shekel weakened as much as 0.8 percent to 3.4675
against the dollar and was down 0.3 percent at 3.4535 at 4:30
p.m. in  Tel Aviv . It was the worst performer today among the 10
most-active currencies in emerging Europe, the Middle East and
 Africa , according to Bloomberg data.  The yield on the benchmark Mimshal Shiklit bond due January
2020 gained one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.11
percent at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv.  Israel’s economic growth slowed to an annualized 4.8
percent in the first quarter from 7.6 percent the previous one,
which was the fastest since 2006. Inflation accelerated to 4.1
percent in May, the fourth month at or above 4 percent. The
government’s target range is 1 percent to 3 percent.  Higher Rates  The latest  Bank of Israel  survey showed that economists
expect higher rates to eventually succeed in bringing inflation
back inside the target range. The average forecast for inflation
a year from now is 2.9 percent, the Bank of Israel said
yesterday. Forecasters are predicting on average that the
benchmark interest rate will be 4.3 percent by then.  The widening interest rate gap between Israel and other
developed economies which have mostly kept borrowing costs near
record lows has prompted the shekel’s appreciation.  Fischer has gradually raised the benchmark rate from a
record low of 0.5 percent in August 2009, picking up the pace in
the first three months of this year. The currency appreciated
12.4 percent against the dollar over the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  