-- 
Why China’s Heading for a Hard Landing, Part 2: A. Gary Shilling

-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 
2011-06-28T03:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/shilling-why-china-s-heading-for-a-hard-landing-part-2.html
China  has become an economic giant
because it has so many people who are producing moderate amounts.
In most ways, however, China remains an underdeveloped country
with political and economic policy tools that are crude by
Western standards. Those tools can spur impressive growth --but
they also mask some deep structural weaknesses in  China’s
economy .  It’s relatively easy for  developing countries  to grow by
emulating the technology of advanced nations or, in China’s case,
by forcing them to share it as the price of doing business or by
simply stealing it.  And a tightly controlled economy can get results quickly.
That’s what happened with China’s $586 billion stimulus program
introduced in 2009. Growth in gross domestic product leaped from
a 6 percent rate in early 2009 back to double digits. Most of
the money was channeled through government-controlled banks,
whose lending increased by $1.4 trillion, or 32 percent, over
the course of 2009 after being flat since early 2006. The  money
supply  increased by 29 percent.  Those loans financed public and industrial infrastructure
and real estate. Property prices in January 2010 were up 9.5
percent from a year earlier, according to government numbers,
and much more by private realistic estimates. Employment gained
along with economic activity, and in the third quarter of 2009,
there were 94 job openings for every 100 applicants, up from 85
in depressed 2008, and close to the pre-crisis average of 97.  Unsustainable Growth  Here’s what we should remember: This kind of growth is
unsustainable, and it won’t be able to cover up China’s
underlying vulnerabilities forever.  China’s reliance on exports and a controlled currency for
growth, for instance, will no longer work if U.S. consumers are
engaged in a chronic saving spree, as I believe they will be.
Chinese export growth, which averaged 21 percent per year in the
last decade, is bound to suffer.  The country’s seemingly inexhaustible pool of cheap labor
is expected to peak in 2014, in part due to its rigid one-child
policy. By some estimates, ample labor has boosted GDP growth by
1.8 percentage points annually since the late 1970s, but the
contraction of the working-age population will reduce growth by
0.7 percentage points by 2030.  Wages and Ages  Wages are already rising, and even Chinese manufacturers
are moving production to Vietnam and  Pakistan , where pay levels
are a third of China’s. Some factory workers have seen wage
increases of 20 percent to 30 percent in the last year or so,
with those producing goods for foreign companies seeing
especially large boosts. At the same time, better conditions in
rural areas have reduced the flow of cheap labor into coastal
cities.  As the Chinese population ages, the ratio of retirees to
working-age people is forecast to rise from 39 percent last year
to 46 percent in 2025.  This does not bode well for China’s future growth. When
Communist Party leaders transitioned China’s economy from a
cradle-to-grave nanny state to a progressively free-market one
starting in 1978, no meaningful unemployment, retirement or
state health systems were instituted. (Although President  Hu Jintao  said in October that China will “institute a social
safety net that covers all,” and the government has set a goal
of providing basic medical care for all Chinese by 2020.)  Prodigious Saving  So the Chinese must save prodigiously to provide for their
welfare and retirement. This has contributed mightily to China’s
high rate of saving and low rate of spending, and its consequent
reliance on exports. Chinese households save close to 30 percent
of income on average, in large part to cover old age and medical
costs.  Yes, the Chinese saving rate will be pushed down in time by
aging Chinese who still consume but no longer work, much as it
has in Japan. Nevertheless, less saving and more Chinese
consumption won’t substitute for weakening exports any time soon.
Chinese consumers buy only about one-tenth of those in  Europe 
and the U.S. combined. As the  euro zone  remains troubled, and
the U.K. slashes government stimulus and U.S. consumers continue
to retrench, it’s unlikely that a drop in Chinese saving could
offset the negative effects of reduced exports.  Inflation Looming  Finally, China’s state-controlled economic boom may soon
lead to crippling inflation. In February 2010, the director of
the National Bureau of Statistics said that “asset-price
increases pose a challenge for macroeconomic policy.”  The housing boom has pushed up prices to the point that
apartments in Beijing are affordable to only the top 20 percent
of earners -- they’re selling at about 22 times average income
(average U.S. house prices peaked at six times average income).
A square meter of property in China costs an estimated 164 times
per-capita income, compared with 33 times in high-priced  Japan .  The 2009 stimulus package also spurred consumer price
inflation to a year-over-year acceleration of 5.5 percent in May.
Food prices are very sensitive politically because so many
Chinese are at subsistence incomes, and they rose 11.7 percent
in May from a year earlier.  Chinese leaders are not amused, and are taking stringent
restraining actions. But with only blunt-force economic tools
available, it’s not clear that they’ll be capable of managing a
controlled slowdown without significant pain.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own. This is the second in a five-part series.)  Read  Part 1 . Read more  Bloomberg View op-eds .  To contact the author of this column:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 