-- 
Why China’s Heading for a Hard Landing, Part 3: A. Gary Shilling

-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 
2011-06-28T22:20:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/shilling-why-china-is-heading-for-a-hard-landing-pt-3.html
China  is hoping to cool its white-
hot economy without precipitating a recession. Doing so will be
extremely difficult: Inflation fears are growing, the
government’s ability to respond is quite limited, and China’s
economic model, which leaves bureaucrats guessing about the
market effects of their directives, is ultimately untenable.  Inflation worries start with housing. With Chinese exports
curtailed by U.S. consumer retrenchment,  capital spending 
threatened by government restraints and excess capacity, and
domestic spending less than robust, housing has been China’s big
generator of economic growth in recent years. By some estimates,
half of Chinese GDP is linked to real-estate activity.  The government is fearful of rising prices, and has moved
to prevent speculation. Buyers must now put down 60 percent of
the purchase price on second homes, and 30 percent on first
homes. The government is pressing banks to contain mortgages,
and some have raised  interest rates . In January, the mayor of
 Shanghai  announced a new tax on property transactions that may
be copied nationwide as other officials attempt to cool prices.  With these restraints in place, and with supply starting to
catch up with demand, housing sales have slowed. But this has
not fully curtailed China’s real-estate bubble: Housing starts
rose about 40 percent last year. Developers are rushing to build
while they try to support faltering prices by delaying
completions and creating artificial shortages. Of course, these
efforts are difficult to maintain because they tie up capital in
uncompleted houses. Houses are now being built at about twice
the rate they’re being sold, well above earlier norms.  Huge Loans  A report this week by China’s National Audit Office found
that a significant chunk of bank loans made to provincial-
government financing vehicles were improperly funneled into
property investments, contributing to a debt load equal to some
27 percent of GDP.  Other huge loans  to state-owned enterprises,
intended to finance infrastructure, also reportedly went into
real estate and may be at risk.  With inventories soaring while demand softens, and the
government clamping down on speculation, a collapse of the
housing bubble seems increasingly likely.  Prices Rising  Housing isn’t the only area where signs of inflation are
popping up. In May, consumer prices increased 5.5 percent versus
a year earlier. In December, Chinese leaders agreed to “put
stabilizing the overall price level in a more prominent
position” in their ranking of economic priorities. In a country
where many live at or below the poverty level, food costs are
obviously a major concern, and they jumped 11.7 percent in May
from a year earlier.  The government appears increasingly worried about social
unrest. In November, it said it was ready to impose price
controls to reduce inflation, especially on food and energy, and
said it would help the poor with higher welfare payments. The
unrest continues and, significantly, has moved from rural areas
to the cities.  Income inequality  also remains a problem. The flow of
Chinese to more prosperous urban areas has increased average
 living standards , but the difference between the rich and the
rest continues to widen. In 2010, annual per-capita income was
about $2,900 in cities and about $900 in rural areas. (Adjusting
for lower costs in rural areas reduces this gap.)  Limited Response  China’s ability to respond to these worries is extremely
limited. The central bank relies on adjusting  reserve
requirements  and limits on bank lending to implement monetary
policy. Since January 2010, it has raised reserve requirements
12 times (to 21.5 percent), while only increasing the one-year
lending rate four times (to 6.31 percent), to accommodate
inefficient state-enterprise borrowers, which provide a lot of
jobs.  Finally, implementing any policy in an economy that is
partly government-controlled, partly market-driven is very
difficult. In a completely controlled economy, as China’s used
to be, government leaders might have made economically
inefficient decisions, but their authority wasn’t disputed. In
an open economy, as in  Singapore , the markets make the
decisions, and politicians have little involvement.  But under China’s current arrangement, officials making
major decisions have to guess what market reactions will result,
then try to mitigate the unintended consequences of their
actions.  Unintended Consequences  With a managed floating  exchange rate , for example,
officials have to estimate how much hot money will enter China
in anticipation of a stronger currency, and then determine how
to neutralize the undesired effects of this flow. Government
policies that encourage exports and trade surpluses have pushed
China’s foreign-currency reserves to more than $3 trillion.
Until recently, all the foreign-currency earnings of Chinese
exporters had to be traded in for yuan, but then the central
bank was forced to issue securities to sop up that money to
avoid depreciation.  Similarly, the Chinese government sets yearly limits on
bank loans in advance, but leaves it up to the banks and demand
to determine the monthly lending pattern. So the banks rush to
make loans early in the year for fear that the government will
reduce the limit in a midcourse correction.  I suspect that such a hybrid market system is too unwieldy
to allow the Chinese government to manage a soft landing for its
economy. By my reckoning, the  Federal Reserve  has tried 12 times
in the post-World War II era to cool an overheating economy
without precipitating a recession. It succeeded only once. Can
the politically controlled Chinese central bank, and the
government leaders who really call the shots, be more successful
than the independent Fed?  That seems unlikely. And the consequences, for China and
the world economy, could be unfortunate.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own. This is the third in a five-part series.)  Read  Part 1  and  Part 2 .  Read more  Bloomberg View op-eds .  To contact the author of this column:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 