-- 
Siemens Plans to Expand Market Share in Emerging Economies

-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-06-28T07:58:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/siemens-plans-to-expand-its-market-share-in-emerging-markets.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  predicted all its
divisions will outpace industry growth in emerging markets in
the next five years, allowing Europe’s largest engineering
company to gain market share in nascent economies.  Siemens “is excellently positioned to capture an above-
average share of the growth” in emerging markets, Managing
Board Member Roland Busch told analysts on a webcast
presentation in Shanghai today. The company didn’t provide
specific targets for market share.  Siemens plans to drive growth in countries including Chile,
Indonesia, Mexico, and Poland, in what it termed “second wave”
emerging markets, while continuing to expand in the  Middle East 
as well as in Brazil, Russia, India, and  China , Busch said.
Siemens today generates about 30 percent of revenue in emerging
markets, where 25 percent of its workforce is located.  With economies such as China and  India  offering faster
growth, cheaper labor and less saturated local markets,
manufacturers including Siemens are shifting resources into
these countries. Siemens more than doubled revenue in emerging
markets to 21.7 billion euros ($31 billion) in five years, and
doubled the combined number of employees in China and India.  The Munich-based manufacturer has added 31 manufacturing
facilities in India and China in the past five years. The number
of employees working at Siemens’s research and development
departments in emerging economies rose by 6,900 in the past two-
and-a-half years to 15,500, according to the company. Siemens
had 416,000 globally employees as of March 31.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Richard Weiss in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .
Ben Livesey at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 