-- 
Siemens Sees Growth Easing in Second Half as Boost From Economy Eases Off

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-06-28T15:35:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/siemens-sees-growth-easing-as-economic-recovery-tailwind-ends.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  predicted growth will be
tougher to achieve in the second half as the stimulus from an
economic rebound is petering out, sending the shares of  Europe ’s
largest engineering company on their biggest drop in 15 weeks.  “The tailwind from the economic recovery is likely over,”
Chief Financial Officer  Joe Kaeser  told analysts in  Shanghai 
today, in comments broadcast on the Internet. “Now, increased
efforts are required for continued growth.”  Kaeser predicted sales in the fiscal third quarter won’t
increase from the preceding three months, while adjusted net
income adjusted will advance “slightly” from 1.4 billion euros
($2 billion) earned a year earlier. Siemens’s health-care
business is the most challenging division, and a review may
result in “significant” charges, while the renewable-energy
unit is also missing company targets, the CFO said.  Siemens fell as much as 4.02 euros, or 4.3 percent, to
88.77 euros in  Frankfurt  before closing at 90.70 euros. The
stock has lost 2.2 percent in value so far this year.  Not Performing  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  is accelerating a
company overhaul as he sells Munich-based Siemens’s computer-
services division, which has been unprofitable for years, and
prepares the Osram lighting subsidiary for an initial public
offering. Kaeser declined to say today if the company is
reviewing its plans for the IPO given the market development,
while acknowledging “easing growth dynamics” in the business.  Royal Philips Electronics NV, the world’s biggest lighting
company, said on June 22 that growth at its lighting business
will slow to a “low single-digit” pace, causing its shares to
post their sharpest decline in more than two years.  Kaeser said today that  Germany  continues to display a
“robust” industrial environment. German business confidence
unexpectedly improved in June and remained close to a record
high posted in February, suggesting Europe’s largest economy is
weathering the region’s worsening sovereign-debt crisis and
slowing global growth.  Areva Settlement  Siemens’s profit forecast for the quarter ending June
excludes 648 million euros that the company will pay Paris-based
Areva SA after an arbitration tribunal found the German company
failed to meet contractual obligations in a nuclear joint
venture that it exited earlier this year. Is also excludes
potential charges related to the company’s particle therapy
business, which is under review.  Fixing the diagnostics unit may take “a few quarters,”
Kaeser said. Sales and profit in health care in the third
quarter will fall when compared with both last year and the
second quarter, the CFO said.  Loescher and his predecessor,  Klaus Kleinfeld , spent 11
billion euros on health-care takeovers in 2006 and 2007,
prompting the company to write down the value of its health-care
diagnostics unit by 1.4 billion euros last year after it failed
to meet growth expectations.  “We need to balance between very pioneering technology and
the setbacks on the economic side to get there,” Kaeser said of
the particle therapy subsidiary within the health-care unit.
“Unfortunately, we are in the area of setbacks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  