-- 
Siemens Plans for Osram IPO Tested by Weaker Growth Outlook

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-06-29T09:17:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/siemens-plans-for-osram-ipo-tested-by-weakening-growth-outlook.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  is trying to sell  light
bulbs  to investors just as growth prospects darken.  The sales boost from the economic recovery is petering out
and growth is easing at the Osram lighting subsidiary, Siemens
Chief Financial Officer  Joe Kaeser  said yesterday. The Munich-
based company has slated an initial public offering for Osram in
the second half, in a sale that may raise about 3 billion euros
($4.31 billion), a person familiar with the plan said May 25.  Siemens is attempting one of the biggest share sales in
Germany in a decade at a time when the European sovereign debt
crisis is roiling investors and competitors in the lighting
industry are buckling under falling consumer spending. Royal
Philips Electronics NV, the No. 1 light-bulb maker, said last
week it will extend cost cuts amid sputtering sales.  “It all depends on where Siemens’ threshold of pain for
Osram’s valuation is,” said Thilo Mueller, who helps manage 120
million euros ($173 million) at MB Fund Advisory in Limburg,
 Germany . “The IPO isn’t dead, but there are question marks.”  Thomas Langer, an analyst at WestLB in Dusseldorf, today
cut his value estimate for Osram to 5.5 billion euros from 6.3
billion euros. Osram’s issue price could be “disappointing,”
and the sale may be delayed, he said in a note to clients.  Osram reported a more than sixfold increase in profit last
year to 569 million euros, on revenue of 4.68 billion euros,
after the year-earlier earnings were marred by costs to cut jobs
and inventory. Siemens Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  is
seeking to rid Europe’s largest engineering company of one of
its last remaining consumer businesses, saying Osram is better
off alone to expand in the market for advanced LED lighting.  Falling Stock  Siemens rose 1.24 euros, or 1.4 percent, to 92.24 euros at
10.50 a.m. in  Frankfurt  trading, after posting their biggest
decline in 15 weeks yesterday. Siemens has lost 2.6 percent in
the last six months, less than the 26 percent drop at Amsterdam-
based Philips.  Kaeser declined to comment further on the outlook for
Osram’s IPO in a conference call yesterday, citing regulatory
requirements ahead of the share sale. The company in May picked
Deutsche Bank AG,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and UBS AG to run the
IPO, and said it will remain a “long-term anchor shareholder.”  The company wants to cede control of Osram after almost a
century, as the lighting industry transforms from incandescent
bulbs to advanced lights used in car headlights and buildings.
Siemens predicted last year that the LED market will rise almost
fivefold to 9.8 billion euros by 2013, from 2 billion euros in
2009. The overall lighting market is likely to grow 44 percent
to about 65 billion euros by 2016, according to Siemens.  ‘ Turning Point ’  “We are at a turning point in lighting,” said Gerard Reid, an equity analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. “The
real question is what the future holds, and the question mark
has gotten bigger since we got the latest news from Philips.”  Philips forecast its lighting unit will report “low
single-digit” sales growth in the second quarter, prompting
Chief Executive Officer Frans Van Houten to temporarily seize
day-to-day operations.  Rival LED maker  Cree Inc. (CREE)  on April 19 reported earnings and
sales that missed analysts’ expectations. The shares of Durham,
North Carolina-based Cree have lost almost half their value so
far this year.  Osram licenses patents to other LED-makers, including
Philips, Cree, and Nichia Corp. Governments are discouraging the
use of conventional light bulbs, which convert only 5 percent to
10 percent of the energy used into light and have shorter
lifespans than LEDs.  No More Bulbs  To help reach its target of reducing carbon dioxide
emissions 20 percent by 2020 from 1990 levels, the European
Union is gradually phasing out conventional clear incandescent
bulbs. By next year, models such as frosted bulbs and high-
energy halogen lights will also be erased.  “The list of the players in lighting is almost certainly
going to look very different in five years’ time,” Aixtron SE
CEO Paul Hyland said on a March 1 conference call. The
Herzogenrath, Germany-based company is among the biggest
suppliers of equipment to manufacture LEDs.  Financial market turbulence is disrupting planned share
sales. At least 20 IPOs have been pulled or postponed in Western
 Europe  this year as concern grows that  Greece  may default on its
debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Cie. de Saint-
Gobain SA shelved a planned $1.1 billion IPO of its packaging
unit, citing “market uncertainty and volatility.”  Cutting Jobs  While Osram’s recent past is marked by cost reductions and
at least 5,000 job cuts, investors would be buying a business
set to be dominated by  capital spending  as it seeks to stay
ahead of tougher competition. Osram CEO Wolfgang Dehen predicted
this month that the industry would undergo the most “dramatic,
disruptive change” ever witnessed in the last three decades.  “Light is evolving from being a consumer product to
becoming an investment product, with high upfront costs,
amortization periods, and a completely different cycle,” said
Andreas Eickhoff, an analyst at Dekabank in Frankfurt.  Sales at Osram have risen 3.5 percent over the past decade
to 4.68 billion euros. Philips extended its lead during that
period, growing revenue by 49 percent to 7.55 billion euros.
Philips bought 12 companies active in lighting products and
systems in the past 10 years, making it the most acquisitive
company in the industry, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Osram, which sells LEDs under the names of TopLED and
Golden Dragon Plus, spent 5.5 percent of sales on R&D last year,
compared with 4.7 percent at Philips. It supplies  Ford Motor
Co. (F) ’s Mustang and Audi’s flagship A8 model and is developing an
LED that will allow mobile phones to project films onto a wall.  Sharpening Focus  A retreat from Osram would advance Siemens’s move away from
consumer-oriented and more cyclical businesses toward industrial
applications such as turbines, factory automation gear and
power-transmission equipment. Siemens sold the bulk of its
telecommunications assets, on which the company was founded in
the middle of the 19th century.  It also spun off its semiconductor business and renamed it
 Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) , a move that provided a windfall at the
height of the technology bubble in 2000, only to see its
remaining holding shrink in value as chip prices collapsed.  “The lighting market may just follow in the footsteps of
the computer-chip market in the 1990s,” said Juergen Meyer, a
 fund manager  at SEB in Frankfurt. “Everyone wanted a piece of
it, and in the end, nobody earned any money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 