-- 
Sierra Club Can’t Join U.S. to Sue BP Over Spill, Judge Says

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-06-28T23:16:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/sierra-club-can-t-join-u-s-lawsuit-seeking-bp-spill-damages-judge-says.html
The  Sierra Club  lost its bid to join
the U.S. government’s civil lawsuit against  BP Plc (BP/)  seeking
billions of dollars for violations of pollution laws and damage
to natural resources during the  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill.  The environmental group asked on Feb. 7 for “a seat at the
table” in the government’s case, saying environmentalists would
push for stiffer fines than the U.S. would. The government
argued that environmentalists could express their opinions
through “friend of the court” briefs.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Sally Shushan in New Orleans said in
her ruling today that the Sierra Club could make its positions
known without becoming a party to the litigation.  “In the event there is a settlement, it will be able to
present public comment,” Shushan said in her ruling.  The court is overseeing more than 350 lawsuits against BP
and other companies involved in the worst offshore  oil spill  in
U.S. history.  The government may pursue fines against BP of $1,100 to
$4,300 per barrel spilled, depending on the level of negligence
it determines was involved in the incident. The government
lawsuit also seeks billions of dollars for restoration of
publicly owned wetlands, marshes, beaches, fisheries and
wildlife harmed by the spill.  Rig Explosion  More than 4.1 million barrels of crude oil gushed from a
subsea well off the  Louisiana  coast, after the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig exploded and sank in April of last year. BP, as
owner of the offshore lease, is legally responsible for civil
fines and natural resources restoration costs under the Oil
Pollution Act.  The Sierra Club, based in  San Francisco , claims regulators
may share some blame for the environmental damage because they
approved “BP’s grossly inadequate oil spill response plans”
and let London-based BP “over use damaging oil dispersants”
during the government-directed spill clean-up effort, the
group’s lawyers said in court papers.  “The facts here simply do not support Sierra Club’s
intervention into the  United States ’ enforcement action,”
Justice Department lawyers said in a Feb. 28 filing. The
government said the environmentalists’ intervention wasn’t
necessary because the two groups “ultimately seek the same
objectives.”  Wyn Hornbuckle, a U.S. Justice Department spokesman,
declined to comment. Eric Huber, a Sierra Club lawyer, didn’t
return a voice-mail message seeking comment after regularly
business hours.  Daren Beaudo, a BP spokesman, declined to comment.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  