-- 
Simon Rattle, Emperor Caracalla Seduced by Charms of Baden-Baden: Travel

-- B y   G e o r g e   L o o m i s
-- 
2011-06-28T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/simon-rattle-emperor-caracalla-seduced-by-charms-of-baden-baden-travel.html
The Roman emperor Caracalla soothed
his arthritis in the mineral waters at Baden-Baden in Germany.
Dostoevsky lost big in the gaming rooms, squandering his young
wife’s jewels in the process.  Bill Clinton , on a visit soon
after departing the presidency, proclaimed that “Baden-Baden is
so nice you have to name it twice.”  Simon Rattle  and the  Berlin Philharmonic  are among the
latest to feel the lure of this spa town on the edge of the
Black Forest. Last month they announced plans to decamp from the
 Salzburg Easter Festival , where the orchestra has been showcased
since the event started in 1967, and take up Easter music-making
at Baden-Baden’s Festspielhaus beginning in 2013.  Classical music at the Festspielhaus has been prominent
among the city’s attractions for more than a decade. Yet
everything here traces back to the mineral waters, the literal
wellspring for what the town is today. Now the waters are
purveyed by a sumptuous array of grand resort hotels that you’d
think could exist only in a bygone era.  Any one of them would be a landmark somewhere else, yet
here the astonishing concentration is matched by the beauty of
the setting. Take a stroll along the Lichtentaler Allee and the
Kaiser Allee, with their rolling lawns and proximity to the
gently flowing Oos River, and you’ll see what I mean -- an
idyllic blend of Mother Nature and urban opulence.  Nude Dress Code  Whether the waters actually possess medicinal capabilities
may be open to question. Reaching a conclusion is its own
reward. Hotels have the full range of spa services, and whether
you want to work out or be pampered is up to you. The dress code
for saunas and steam rooms is nude, a point worth noting
inasmuch as they are co-ed.  Also situated along the Lichtentaler Allee is the Kurhaus
or casino. Gambling received a boost in the 1830s when Louis-
Philippe banned games of chance in  France . Baden-Baden’s
proximity to the French border was never more propitious and the
city gained its reputation as a place to see and be seen.  Russians came too, a practice already instigated by Tsar
Alexander I, who married a local princess and visited regularly.
Dostoevsky lost money, then gained literary capital to write his
novel “The Gambler.” Another writer, Ivan Turgenev, maintained
a residence, which he shared with his companion, the famed mezzo
soprano Pauline Viardot.  Other musicians to find Baden-Baden congenial were Brahms
and Clara Schumann. Berlioz’s final opera “Beatrice et
Benedict” inaugurated a theater in the town at its premiere in
1862.  Ornate Gambling  The casino remains an iconic institution, if not a big
profit center. A visit to the ornate gaming rooms on a recent
afternoon found them looking elegant, although a 40-strong group
of French tourists outnumbered the gambling clientele by about
5-to-1. More lucrative for the house are said to be the video
machines a floor below, but you can find their likes in any city
where they’re legal.  Russians are back in force, drawn by another Baden-Baden
attraction: high-end shopping. The many stores specializing in
luxury goods offer ample opportunity for Russians and their
rubles to be parted. The stores are within convenient walking
distance, like everything else in Baden-Baden.  Everything, that is, except the train station, which was
relocated some time ago. The old one, centrally situated, now
supplies the picturesque foyer for the Festspielhaus. With 2,500
seats it is  Germany ’s largest opera house/concert hall.  The original thinking called for the Festspielhaus, which
opened in 1998, to become an instant Salzburg with commensurate
ticket prices. After that idea bombed, Andreas Moelich-Zebhauser
became managing director and prudently yet steadily built the
Festspielhaus’s offerings into what they are today.  His success with the Berlin Philharmonic, which will have
greater flexibility to play in smaller configurations and the
ability to give more opera performances than Salzburg allowed,
shows how far he has come.  Gleaming Salome  For opera, Moelich-Zebhauser favors what he calls
“reasonable” stage directors in the belief that the days of
Regie Theater (stagings by radical directors) are numbered. The
illustrious veteran Nikolaus Lehnhoff has mounted several
Festspielhaus productions, most recently Strauss’s “Salome,” a
major attraction this summer.  With several takes on the Strauss opera behind him,
Lehnhoff’s cogently directed latest effort, compellingly
conducted by Stefan Soltesz, looks back on its predecessors
rather than breaks new ground. The set depicted what resembled
an Eastern European building from Communist times. Soprano
Angela Denoke, gleaming of voice and kittenish in appearance,
demonstrated why she is perhaps today’s leading Salome.  One challenge Moelich-Zebhauser faces is to ensure that the
conductor Christian Thielemann, who will lead a new production
of another Strauss opera, “Ariadne auf Naxos,” here in March,
continues as a regular Baden-Baden guest even though he and the
forces of Dresden’s  Semper Oper  are set to succeed Rattle and
the Berlin orchestra in Salzburg. Simply having a challenge like
this helps explain why the Festspielhaus stands high among
Baden-Baden’s attractions.  (George Loomis writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
George Loomis in Baden-Baden at  georgeloomis@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 