-- 
Singapore Stocks: Global Logistic, KS Energy, Raffles Education

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-06-28T09:36:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/singapore-stocks-global-logistic-ks-energy-raffles-education.html
Singapore ’s  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  fell
0.1 percent to 3,050.79 at the close. Two stocks rose for each
that fell on the benchmark index of 30 companies.  Shares on the measure trade at an average 14 times
estimated earnings, compared with about 15.6 times at the end of
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The following shares were among the most active in the
market. Stock symbols are in parentheses after the company name.  China XLX Fertiliser Ltd. (CXLX)  , a maker of urea and
methanol, surged 7.3 percent to 37 Singapore cents. CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. raised its rating to “neutral” from
“underperform,” saying it expects prices of fertilizers to
increase.  Global Logistic Properties Ltd. (GLP)  , a logistics
company whose customers include Wal-Mart China and FedEx Corp.,
climbed 1.5 percent to S$2.01. The company said it signed an
agreement to build facilities for Unicharm Corp., a Japanese
maker of sanitary napkins and baby products, in China.  KS Energy Ltd. (KST SP), the maker of drilling equipment
for oil explorers that’s being taken private by Pacific One
Energy Ltd., gained 1.9 percent to S$1.08. The company said it
won a one-year contract, valued at 12 million euros ($17.1
million) to charter its offshore accommodation rig for use in a
project of Royal Dutch Shell Plc in the  North Sea .  Raffles Education Corp. (RLS SP), operator of fashion-
design schools in Singapore, China and  India , increased 1.1
percent to 48 Singapore cents. DBS Group Holdings Ltd. raised
its rating on the stock to “hold” from “fully valued,”
saying the sale of the company’s stake in Value Vantage Pte., a
provider of training services in China, will result in a one-
time gain of S$23.7 million ($19 million) and help the company
repay some of its debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 