-- 
Singapore Sets Capital Rules for Local Banks Higher Than Basel III Minimum

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 
2011-06-29T07:37:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/singapore-sets-capital-rules-for-banks-above-basel-iii-levels.html
Singapore  said it will set capital
levels for local lenders above the global minimum to solidify
the city’s position as a financial hub after regulators
tightened norms for the world’s largest banks.  Lenders incorporated in Singapore will need to meet a
minimum common equity Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio of 6.5
percent from Jan. 1, 2015, the Monetary Authority of Singapore
said in a statement yesterday. That’s 2 percentage points more
than the so-called Basel III rules announced last year.  Policymakers in the Southeast Asian nation aim to join U.S.
and European regulators in shoring up capital at banks that are
deemed too big to fail. The  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  this weekend said that systemically important banks
must hold as much as 2.5 percentage points in additional capital
as part of efforts to prevent another financial crisis.  “The MAS guidelines clearly set out what’s expected of
locally incorporated banks and ensures the strength and
stability of the banking sector,” Anil Wadhwani, who heads the
local unit of New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , said in an e-mailed
statement. “Citibank Singapore is more than adequately
capitalized to meet and exceed the new requirements.”  The Basel III capital rules announced last year, which
apply to a broader group of banks worldwide, are scheduled to be
phased in from 2013 through 2019. National regulators should
treat the rules as a minimum standard that they can surpass if
they wish, according to the  Bank for International Settlements ,
the parent organization of the Basel committee.  ‘Level Playing Field’  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest bank, is
“very well positioned” to meet the latest requirements
compared with global rivals, Chief Executive Officer Piyush Gupta said in a statement yesterday.  The more stringent standard “underlines Singapore’s status
as a very solid and prudently managed financial center,” Gupta
said. “Nevertheless, we hope the global regulators will
continue to monitor transition arrangements across countries to
ensure a level playing field and avoid regulatory arbitrage.”  Singapore’s three banks are ranked in the top six among the
world’s strongest banks, based on criteria such as Tier 1
capital ratio, non-performing assets and a comparison of costs
against revenue, Bloomberg Markets magazine reported in its June
issue. Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. topped the global list,
with DBS at No. 5 and  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  at sixth.  Rights Issue Fear  “The good news here is that Singapore banks can all meet
Basel III requirements now, including the extra 2 percent
imposed by the MAS,” David Conner, chief executive officer of
Oversea-Chinese Banking, said today at the annual general
meeting of the Singapore International Chamber of Commerce. “No
one needs to fear a sudden rights issue” by Oversea-Chinese as
a result, he said.  Oversea-Chinese Banking said its common equity Tier 1 ratio
under Basel III is about 10.8 percent as of March 31.  “The phased approach will help ensure a smooth
transition,” said Wee Ee Cheong, deputy chairman and CEO of
United Overseas Bank. “The revisions are in line with ongoing
efforts to strengthen the industry’s resilience and to position
Singapore as a global financial center.”  The world’s largest banks will have to meet the Basel
surcharges using core Tier 1 capital, also known as common
equity, regulators said in a June 25 statement. The extra
measures for as many as 30 of the largest banks will be imposed
in addition to the Basel rules announced last year that require
lenders to hold core capital equivalent to at least 7 percent of
their risk-weighted assets.  Singapore plans to raise the Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio
to 8 percent from 6 percent and introduce a capital conservation
buffer of 2.5 percentage points.  “Each of the Singapore-incorporated banks is systemically
important in Singapore and has a substantial retail presence,”
the city-state’s central bank said in the statement. “The
higher  capital requirements  will further strengthen their
ability to operate under stress conditions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  