-- 
Slovak Finance Minister Sees Greek Austerity Vote as Harder

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   A l a n   C r o s b y
-- 
2011-06-28T12:25:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/slovak-finance-minister-sees-greek-austerity-vote-as-harder-1-.html
Passing an austerity package in the
Greek parliament may be more difficult than last week’s vote of
confidence won by the government there, Slovak Finance Minister
Ivan Miklos said.  Insisting that private bondholders accept a loss in  Greece 
may complicate efforts to rescue the country from its debt
crisis and Slovakia has five conditions for its participation in
the plan, Miklos told reporters today in Bratislava.  “If Greek lawmakers fail to adopt the fiscal stabilization
plan, Greece won’t receive the next installment of its loan in
July,” Miklos said. “The vote of confidence on the new
government last week was easier than the adoption of the
austerity package and privatization laws will be.”  Greek lawmakers vote tomorrow on Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s five-year plan for budget cuts and asset sales,
which is needed before the cash-strapped nation can tap a fifth
loan payment from last year’s 110 billion-euro ($157 billion)
rescue by the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund . Failure to pass the proposal may lead to the euro area’s
first sovereign default.  Greek unions today shut down government services, halted
public transport and disrupted flights at the start of a 48-hour
strike in protest at the plans, which include the sale of stakes
in Public Power Corp. SA, the former electricity monopoly,
Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA and Opap SA,
 Europe ’s biggest publicly traded gambling company.  Slovakia’s Share  Member countries are supposed to pledge 620 billion euros
in guarantees and 80 billion euros in cash to secure the
permanent mechanism’s AAA rating and an effective lending
capacity of 500 billion euros. Slovakia’s share would be about
less than 1 percent of the total.  Slovak banks hold about 500 million euros of Greek debt, or
0.91 percent of the banking industry’s total assets, the SITA
newswire quoted the Slovak central bank as saying today.  The amount isn’t enough to pose a “marked risk” to banks,
the news service quoted Vladimir Dvoracek, head of the bank’s
financial markets department, as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Crosby in Bratislava at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  