-- 
Slowing Inflation Unifies Traders’, Economists’ Rate Bets: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-06-28T21:25:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/slowing-inflation-unifying-traders-economists-mexico-credit.html
Mexican traders and economists are
pushing back their forecasts for interest-rate increases to next
year, reaching a consensus for the first time in eight months as
inflation slows in  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy.  Yields on the 28-day interbank rate futures due in January,
known as TIIE, dropped 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage
point, in the past month to 4.99 percent, indicating traders are
betting central bank Governor Agustin Carstens will wait until
that month to raise the benchmark rate. Economists moved their
forecast for a rate boost to March from January, according to a
survey by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit on June 20.  Falling consumer prices and slowing economic growth are
boosting speculation Carstens will hold the key lending rate at
a record low 4.5 percent, leaving Mexico as the only major Latin
American country to keep borrowing costs unchanged in the past
year. Annual inflation through mid-June slowed to 3.2 percent
from May and touched a five-year low of 3.04 percent in March.
In  Brazil , the region’s biggest economy, traders are betting the
central bank will lift rates by 25 basis points next month to
12.50 percent to slow the fastest inflation in six years.  “With the inflation levels we have seen, there is no
pressure for Banxico to raise rates,” Javier Belaunzaran, who
helps manage about 40 billion pesos ($3.4 billion) with
Interacciones Casa de Bolsa SA, said in a telephone interview
from Mexico City. “Slowly, the data began to build up that
didn’t back up the recovery and the markets got in line.”  Yields on the government’s peso bonds due in 2024 fell 22
basis points, or 0.22 percentage point, to 7.07 percent last
week, the most in 10 months, after consumer prices unexpectedly
dropped in the first half of June, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Growth Outlook  Policy makers left the rate unchanged for a 19th straight
meeting on May 27, saying in a statement that there was a
“moderation in the pace” of the economic expansion. The
economy grew 4.6 percent in the first quarter, less than the 5
percent median forecast in a survey by Bloomberg.  Economic expansion in the U.S., which buys about 80 percent
of  Mexico ’s exports, is also flagging. Federal Reserve officials
last week cut their growth forecasts for the  U.S. economy  this
year and next. The world’s biggest economy will expand by 2.7
percent to 2.9 percent this year, down from April’s forecasts of
3.1 percent to 3.3 percent, based on the median range of
projections.  “Slowing inflation and bad economic data are putting the
brakes on growth forecasts now,” Alejandro Urbina, who helps
manage about $800 million in investments at Silva Capital
Management LLC in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.  ‘Better Situation’  Consumer demand will help Mexico weather the impact from a
slowdown in the U.S., said Alberto Bernal, head of fixed-income
research for Miami-based Bulltick Capital Markets. The economy
may grow as much as 5 percent this year, he said.  “Mexico is in a better situation, where industry is
creating jobs and the jobs are leading to greater  consumer
spending ,” Bernal said in a telephone interview. “The impact
from the U.S. is going to be less than usual.”  Mexico’s jobless rate dropped to 5.2 percent in May from
6.4 percent in September 2009, according to the national
statistics agency. The U.S. jobless rate was 9.1 percent in May
and Brazilian unemployment was 6.4 percent in the same month.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed 9 basis points
to 134 at 5 p.m. New York time today, according to JPMorgan.  Default Swaps  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years dropped 2 basis points to 113, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso rose 0.7 percent to 11.8067 per dollar.  A surge in commodity prices and signs economic growth was
picking up earlier this year had prompted rate-futures traders
to predict the central bank would boost borrowing rates as soon
as July, Silva Capital’s Urbina said.  “Investors saw all the stimulus and good data that was
coming out and they assumed the economy was going to continue
going higher,” Urbina said. “Everyone was betting with a
better economy and growth, inflation would pick up. That wasn’t
what happened. They were taken by surprise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  