-- 
Smiths Group Aims to Be More Active With Acquisitions, Disposals

-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 
2011-06-28T13:56:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/smiths-group-aims-to-be-more-active-with-acquisitions-disposals.html
Smiths Group Plc (SMIN) , the world’s
biggest maker of airport-security scanners, plans to take a more
“active” approach to acquisitions and disposals in the next
three years to increase value.  “Subject to suitable market conditions, we will undertake
more active management of our portfolio,” Chief Executive
Officer Philip Bowman said in an e-mailed statement today. The
company aims to accelerate investment to drive “top-line growth
over the medium term,” while improving margins against
divisional targets. Bowman and executives from the company’s
five main divisions are updating investors on its strategy in
 New York  today.  Smiths rose 3.3 percent to 1,143 pence at 2:45 p.m. in
 London , where the company is based.  Smiths is trying to raise its profile in the U.S., where it
does about 55 percent of its business. Investors are looking for
indications of how the company will fare after flagging sales of
scanners and medical gear in the first 10 months of its fiscal
year held back growth driven by demand for mechanical seals.  Bowman turned down a $3.89 billion offer for the medical-
equipment unit in January, saying it failed to value the
business properly. His appointment in 2007 fanned speculation
about a possible breakup. Bowman had negotiated the sales of
Scottish Power Plc and Allied Domecq when he was CEO of those
companies.  Smiths, founded in 1851 as a watch shop, sold an aerospace
division to  General Electric Co. (GE)  for $4.8 billion in 2007. That
left the U.K. company focused on X-ray machines and scanners for
airports and hospitals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  