-- 
Sony to Keep Focus on Online Services for Growth Even After Hacker Attacks

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-06-28T04:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/sony-to-focus-on-four-areas-to-drive-growth-chief-executive-stringer-says.html
Sony Corp. (6758) ’s online services will be
a main source of growth for the company even after hacker
attacks crippled its PlayStation Network, Chief Executive
Officer  Howard Stringer  said.  Sony will also focus on networked devices and services, 3-D
products and emerging markets, Stringer said at the company’s
shareholders meeting today in  Tokyo , where the electronics maker
is based.  Stringer, 69, said Sony will strengthen network security
and seek to regain customer trust after hackers forced the
company to shut down its online entertainment services in April,
a month after Japan’s strongest earthquake damaged the company’s
factories. As many as 90 percent of PlayStation Network users
have come back since services were restored, he said.  Sony fully resumed the PlayStation Network service and its
Qriocity entertainment network in the U.S. and  Europe  earlier
this month, after suspending it for more than five weeks. The
company said it improved security after the intrusion, in which
data on more than 100 million accounts was compromised.  Sony increased the number of firewalls between servers and
added software to monitor intrusions and system vulnerabilities
before restarting the services, according to the company.  Third Straight Loss  The company reported a third consecutive annual loss for
the 12 months ended March 31, the first time that has happened
since its listing in 1958, as the impact of the magnitude-9
earthquake on March 11 forced Sony to write down the value of
deferred tax assets.  Sony’s shares have declined 30 percent this year, compared
with a 5.4 percent drop for the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average.  Sony,  Japan ’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics,
will probably return to net income of 80 billion yen ($990
million) in the year ending March 31, the company said May 26.  The intrusion into the PlayStation Network may cost Sony 14
billion yen this fiscal year, it estimates.  Since the April cyber attack, Sony has said it is also
investigating possible theft of data from its SonyPictures.com
site, a Brazilian music entertainment website and Sony Computer
Entertainment’s game operation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  