-- 
Sony Cuts Pay for Stringer, Hirai After Posting Third Straight Annual Loss

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-06-28T20:34:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/sony-cuts-pay-for-stringer-hirai-after-posting-third-straight-annual-loss.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , reeling from Japan’s
biggest earthquake and the second-largest online data breach in
U.S. history, cut its pay for Chairman  Howard Stringer  and his
likely successor after posting a third straight annual loss.  Stringer’s salary and bonuses fell 15 percent to 345
million yen ($4.3 million) for the 12 months ended March 31 from
408 million yen a year earlier, Tokyo-based Sony said in filings
to the government. Sony also pared compensation for Stringer’s
top lieutenant and possible successor Executive Deputy President
 Kazuo Hirai  to 101 million yen, excluding stock options, from
110 million yen in the prior period.  Stringer told shareholders today online services will
continue to be a main source of growth for Sony even after
hacker attacks crippled its PlayStation Network. The company,
losing ground to Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co., last
month reported its widest annual net loss in 16 years and
forecast the March 11 earthquake and the online attacks will
erode about $2 billion from operating profit this fiscal year.  Sony has had execution problems that it is still struggling
to resolve, Yasuo Nakane, an analyst with Deutsche Bank in
Toyko, said in a research note today.  The company’s divisions are moving too slowly to address
competition in tablet computers, televisions and networked
products, including smartphones, said Nakane, who has a “buy”
rating on the shares.  ‘Slower’ Than Peers  “Inter-segment coordination has not translated into the
speedy development of unique products, or greater earnings, as
Sony has been slower than its peers to launch new products,”
Nakane wrote.  Stringer, a Welsh-born U.S. citizen who joined Sony in
1997, was made chairman and chief executive officer in 2005 and
oversaw the loss of more than 37 percent of Sony’s market value
over the six years ended March 31. The 69-year-old executive was
also granted 500,000 shares as stock options last year,
unchanged from the prior period, according to the documents.  Shares of Sony rose 0.3 percent to 2,038 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of trading in  Tokyo , paring the stock’s decline since the
day before Japan’s March 11 natural disaster to 29 percent.  Network Security  Stringer said Sony will strengthen network security and
seek to regain customer trust after hackers forced the company
to shut down its online entertainment services in April.  Sony fully resumed the PlayStation Network service and its
Qriocity entertainment network in the U.S. and  Europe  earlier
this month, after suspending it for more than five weeks. As
many as 90 percent of PlayStation Network users have come back
since services were restored, Stringer said today.  The maker of the PlayStation 3 game consoles last month
estimated the cyber attacks that may have resulted in the theft
of data on more than 100 million accounts will cost about 14
billion yen this fiscal year.  Japan ’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics will
probably return to net income of 80 billion yen in the year
ending March 31, Sony forecast May 26. The net loss was 260
billion yen in the year ended March 31, the widest in 16 years.  Sony had earlier this month proposed an 11 percent cut in
salary and bonuses for board members and corporate executive
officers in the year ended in March, according to an  invitation 
for the annual shareholders meeting posted on its website.  Pay Cuts  The pay cuts might smooth investor and consumer concerns
that executives didn’t take the security breaches seriously,
said  Paul Hodgson , a spokesman for GovernanceMetrics
International, a New York-based governance consultant and rating
service.  “This might be a reflection of Sony’s desire to say ‘we’re
taking a hit for this ourselves, and feel the pain as well as
our shareholders and customers,’” Hodgson said.  Sony and other Japanese companies for the first time last
year were required to report executive compensation packages
exceeding 100 million yen.  Stringer in March named the 50-year-old Hirai to oversee
all of Sony’s consumer electronics -- from PlayStation game
consoles to Bravia televisions and Cyber-shot cameras -- as part
of the company’s plans to marry its content with hardware.  Apple, Samsung  The promotion will test the games chief’s ability to carry
out Stringer’s vision to integrate Sony’s TVs and computers with
content from the entertainment businesses. After the Walkman’s
domination of portable players in the 1980s, Sony lost against
Apple with the iPod, failed to fend off Samsung in TVs, while
Nintendo Co. took the lead in video-game consoles.  Sony, which generates almost 70 percent of revenue outside
Japan, is also struggling to contain the erosion of
profitability by the yen’s appreciation, which Vice Chairman
Ryoji Chubachi has described as a “body blow.” The Japanese
currency has strengthened 10.6 percent against the dollar in the
past 12 months hurting exporters’ earnings from overseas sales.  Chubachi was paid 123 million yen excluding  stock options 
in the last fiscal year, down from 148 million yen in the
previous year, according to the filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  