-- 
South African Demands on Mining Threaten Output, Impala Says

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-06-29T15:52:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/south-africa-mines-nationalization-talk-may-cut-output-impala-ceo-says.html
South Africa risks cutting the mine
output that contributes 8.8 percent of the economy as calls from
within the governing political party for a state takeover of the
industry deter investors,  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  said.  “Investors, the traditional suppliers of risk capital to
this industry, are getting cold feet,”  David Brown , 48, chief
executive officer of Impala, said yesterday in a speech in
Johannesburg. “The risk associated with future investment in
South African mining has increased considerably as seen from the
outside world” because of dangers including nationalization.  Impala, based in the city, is the second-largest platinum
producer, accounting for a quarter of global output.  The  African National Congress  agreed in September to study
nationalization to meet demands from  Julius Malema , head of its
youth arm. Sandile Nogxina, outgoing director-general of the
Department of Mineral Resources, told Business Day today that
companies forced the debate by failing to offer sufficient
stakes to black investors, or to develop workers and communities
around mines.  South Africa  is the biggest producer of platinum.  Mine operators in South Africa are compelled by law to sell
26 percent of their assets to black investors by 2014 and boost
numbers of black managers to help make up for discrimination
during apartheid. Some companies had missed targets for 2009,
the mines minister said at the time, adding that the industry
had “not lived up to the spirit and intent” of the law.  Severe Reduction  While mining hadn’t done all it could, “nationalization is
not the answer,” Brown said. “If we’re going to start
impacting the flow of investment, then I think we’ll see some
significant issues around declining output.”  “Wholesale nationalization would certainly undermine the
country’s economic base, especially if banks and land are
next,” he said, adding that even a partial nationalization
would threaten “a severe reduction in output.”  Malema, 30, said last week the government should also take
control of lenders such as Standard Bank Group Ltd. and  Nedbank
Group Ltd. (NED)  He wants to increase the role of the state in the
economy to combat youth unemployment, poverty and inequality.  “What undermines confidence is if debate is suppressed,”
Deputy Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene told reporters in  Cape
Town  today. “We are able to engage in robust debates on very
sensitive matters, but come out with an outcome at the end of
the day that spells stability as we move forward.”  Speaking Out  Businesses should have spoken out on the issue sooner,
Bobby Godsell,  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ’s former CEO, said last
week, according to a June 26 report by  Sake24.com . The Chamber
of Mines, representing the country’s biggest mining companies,
has begun lobbying ANC members, Business Day said yesterday.  “Not only will foreigners not want to bring money in but
domestic investors will start looking to move their investment
out of the country as well,” said Rudi van der Merwe, chief
investment officer at Standard Private Bank Equity Advisory
Services. “It’s slowly starting to happen.”  Impala rose 1.7 percent to 184 rand by the 5 p.m. close in
Johannesburg. Anglo American Platinum Ltd., which is based in
the city, is the world’s largest producer of the metal.  Mining accounts for about 8.8 percent of economic
production, according the website of the state-backed
International Marketing Council of South Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  