-- 
Freedom of Speech Is Buttressed as U.S. Supreme Court Concludes Term

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-06-28T04:00:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/speech-rights-triumph-as-u-s-high-court-limits-government-power.html
The U.S. Supreme Court capped its
nine-month term with a show of support for free speech.  Whether the topic was violent video games, pharmaceutical
marketing campaigns or political contributions, the justices
cast a skeptical eye toward government regulation of speech as
they closed out their year with a flurry of First Amendment
rulings.  The court yesterday struck down a California law barring
the sale of violent video games to children, and voided an
Arizona system that provided public funds to political
candidates based on their opponents’ financial resources. Last
week the court overturned a Vermont law aimed at limiting the
ability of brand-name drugmakers to tailor their sales pitches
to doctors.  “I wouldn’t say that the court’s track record on speech is
absolutely perfect, but it’s pretty close to that,” said Steve Simpson of the Institute for Justice, an Arlington, Virginia,
group that successfully challenged the Arizona system. The court
has “really protected speech where it’s mattered the most, even
though in some cases it’s clearly wanted to allow the government
a certain amount of room to navigate.”  Each ruling divided the court, with dissenting justices
lamenting the limits the majority placed on the government’s
ability to address societal issues. In the campaign finance
case, Justice Elena Kagan said the disputed law could promote
speech, not restrict it, by preventing money from corrupting
politics.  ‘Will of the People’  The invalidated law “fostered both the vigorous
competition of ideas and its ultimate object -- a government
responsive to the will of the people,” Kagan  wrote .  Two of the rulings fractured the court at or near its
ideological fault line. In the 5-4 campaign finance decision,
the court’s five Republican appointees -- Chief Justice  John Roberts  and Justices Antonin Scalia,  Anthony Kennedy ,  Clarence Thomas  and  Samuel Alito  -- formed the majority.  In the drug case, Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  joined that group
in a 6-3 decision to strike down the Vermont law limiting the
use of data on the prescription writing practices of doctors.
The measure targeted “detailing,” the brand-name drug industry
practice of making one-on-one sales pitches to doctors, and was
aimed at encouraging the use of lower cost generic drugs.  In both cases, the majority said the state was improperly
attempting to penalize one side of a public policy debate.  “The state may not burden the speech of others in order to
tilt public debate in a preferred direction,” Kennedy  wrote  for
the majority in the drug case. Bloomberg LP, the parent of
Bloomberg News, was among several news organizations that urged
the court to overturn the Vermont law.  Funeral Protest  The splits in those cases fueled assertions that the
court’s ardor for free speech depends on what is being said and
who is speaking. Supreme Court rulings in recent years have
limited the speech rights of students, public employees and
human rights activists, said Adam Winkler, a constitutional law
professor at the  University of California  at  Los Angeles .  “The Roberts court strongly protects speech that it likes,
while allowing regulation of speech it disfavors,” Winkler
said.  The court said in March that it will protect even unpopular
and offensive speech. Voting 8-1 with Alito as the lone
dissenter, the justices struck down a $5 million award against a
group that staged an anti-homosexual demonstration at a military
funeral.  ‘Great Pain’  The protesters, from the Westboro Baptist Church in Topeka,
 Kansas , bore signs that said God was killing U.S. soldiers to
punish the country for accepting homosexuality. Writing for the
court, Roberts said the protesters had inflicted “great pain”
on the father of a Marine who died in  Iraq .  “On the facts before us, we cannot react to that pain by
punishing the speaker,” Roberts  wrote . “As a nation we have
chosen a different course -- to protect even hurtful speech on
public issues to ensure that we do not stifle public debate.”  The video game case produced an unusual alignment, with
Scalia, Kennedy, Sotomayor, Kagan and  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  taking
the staunchest free-speech positions. Those five rejected the
state’s contention that violent games are akin to sexual
materials, which the government can restrict to protect
children.  Roberts and Alito agreed with the result, while saying they
would have left room for states to enact better-crafted laws.
Thomas and  Stephen Breyer  dissented.  Regulatory Power  Breyer, perhaps the court’s strongest advocate for the
regulatory power of government, also voted to uphold the Vermont
drug law and the Arizona campaign finance measure.  The justices may extend the First Amendment further in the
term that will start in October. The court yesterday said it
will decide whether federal regulators violate the speech rights
of broadcasters by imposing fines for on-air profanities and
nudity.  “This court is the strongest First Amendment court in
history,” said Burt Neuborne, a  New York University School of
Law  professor who specializes in civil liberties and filed a
brief backing the Arizona public financing law. “The current
majority uses the First Amendment as a powerful tool of
deregulation that eliminates virtually all government efforts to
regulate anything to do with the flow of information.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 