-- 
Sprint’s Hesse Fires ‘Nukes’ in 18-State Push to Stop AT&T

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-06-28T20:22:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/sprint-s-hesse-launches-nukes-in-18-state-push-to-stop-at-t-acquisition.html
Dan Hesse ’s White Room is closely
guarded even within  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  The chief executive
officer carries the only key and draws black curtains over his
scribblings before leaving. This is where Hesse retreats to map
out “nukes” in red, blue and green ink, lately his tactics for
stopping  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed takeover of  T-Mobile USA .  “Clearly, purely, we want to win and block the merger,”
said Hesse, during an interview at the company’s  Overland Park ,
Kansas headquarters. “This one poses real risks.”  Hesse has already thrown personal and corporate resources
at blocking AT&T. He tripled the amount of time he’s spending on
government affairs, testifying before Congress and making
regular trips to Washington. Sprint is organizing industry
opposition and filed a 377-page dissent with the Federal
Communications Commission. The company even tapped its own
engineers to show AT&T how to get more capacity from its
wireless network so it wouldn’t need to buy T-Mobile.  Hesse is just getting started. He’s courting top technology
CEOs to come out against the deal and sway public opinion. He’s
working to get as many as 18 state regulators to scrutinize the
purchase, which may slow down approval or prompt divestitures.
He’s working on other tactics he’s not ready to disclose.  Hesse’s company stands to lose if the deal goes through
because, with less than half the revenue of AT&T or  Verizon
Wireless , Sprint would struggle to offer competitive pricing and
the most cutting-edge phones. Sprint’s very survival as an
independent company would be in doubt, he said.  Industry’s Future  What has Hesse so fired up is the conviction that he’s
fighting for more than his company, that consumers and business
customers will lose too. The U.S. telecommunications industry,
the world’s leader from Alexander Graham Bell to the cellular
phone, is at risk of stagnation if it’s controlled by two
companies, he said.  “The industry just won’t be as innovative and as dynamic
as it has been,” said Hesse, 57. “It’ll gum up the works when
everything has to go through these two big tollbooths, one
that’s called AT&T and one that’s called Verizon.”  AT&T makes the case its deal will actually benefit
consumers. The Dallas-based company’s acquisition of T-Mobile
will make it the largest wireless operator in the U.S.,
surpassing Verizon Wireless. Because of that scale, the company
will be able to invest in more advanced networks and offer more
wireless broadband, according to CEO Randall Stephenson.  The transaction is “about having the capacity to drive
innovation and competitive prices for consumers,” Stephenson
said in  testimony before Congress  in May. “Most important, it’s
about giving consumers what they expect -- fewer dropped calls,
faster speeds and access to state-of-the-art mobile broadband
Internet service.”  ‘Defy Economic Logic’  AT&T said it will also be able to operate more efficiently,
driving down operating costs that are passed on to consumers.  “Their arguments about prices going up just defy economic
logic,” said AT&T General Counsel Wayne Watts. “We’ve had
wireless transactions multiple times over the last ten years and
prices have gone one direction: they’ve gone down.”  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Facebook Inc. and  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  have all
voiced support for the acquisition.  AT&T needs approval from the  Justice Department , which
examines whether deals violate antitrust law, and the FCC, which
decides if transactions are in the public interest. Sprint is
fighting the proposed deal on both counts.  Extra Guns  “I’ve had to wear a tie more often,” said Hesse, who
favors blue jeans and open-collared shirts, in suit and pink
necktie ahead of a trip to Washington.  Hesse has brought in extra guns for the battle, including
lobbyists, consulting groups, two former U.S. House Judiciary
Committee counsels and lawyers at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher
& Flom LLP. While AT&T has presented its acquisition as a fait
accompli, with divestitures of some assets, Sprint does have a
chance to block the deal outright, said Christopher Sprigman,
former counsel at the Justice’s antitrust division.  “If Sprint can lay out how this hurts consumers and
competition, the antitrust division is going to listen,”
Sprigman, now a University of Virginia School of Law professor,
said in an interview. “Sprint’s message is not one to be
ignored. This merger is very likely to harm competition.”  Reed Hundt, former chairman of the FCC, said there’s no way
to hold a company to a pledge, such as offering more wireless
broadband in the U.S., unless the Justice Department imposes
specific conditions as part of its acquisition approval.  “Making a promise to Congress is intrinsically not
something that can be enforced,” said Hundt, who declined to
comment specifically on the AT&T deal. “When the Department of
Justice puts conditions on mergers it can enforce those
conditions, because it can take people to court.”  State-by-State  One reason Sprint is getting state regulators involved is
because it’s being outspent in Washington more than 12-to-1.
AT&T’s political action committee contributed $3.26 million to
federal candidates in 2009 and 2010, compared with $257,500 for
Sprint, according to  the Center for Responsive Politics , a
watchdog group. California and Louisiana have already opened
investigations.  Hesse is trying to generate public opposition to AT&T’s
deal with national newspaper advertisements and an anti-merger
website. And he’s recruiting allies among smaller wireless
operators, including  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) ,  Leap Wireless
International Inc. (LEAP)  and Cellular South Inc.  “There’s no divestiture or condition that would make this
thing palatable,” said Sprint director Frank Ianna. “This is
something from an anti-trust perspective, I don’t think should
be allowed to go through.”  Sprint rose 7 cents to $5.22 at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading and has gained 23 percent this year.
AT&T added 26 cents to $31.02 and is up 5.6 percent this year.  Hesse’s Fight  Hesse, the son of an Army officer, grew up in Italy,
Germany, Kansas and Nebraska. He graduated from  Notre Dame  in
 South Bend , Indiana, then earned an MBA from  Cornell University 
and a master’s degree in science from the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology. He spent 23 years at AT&T and ran the
company’s wireless business for three years, before leaving in
2000 when another executive was tapped to lead the unit as AT&T
spun it off.  Hesse said the current campaign isn’t personal. He sits
with legs crossed in one of four oversized leather chairs in his
office, surrounding a coffee table overflowing with newspapers
and magazines he says he doesn’t have time to read. When asked
about costing AT&T a $6 billion breakup fee if it can’t complete
the T-Mobile purchase, he pauses and then leans forward.  “That’s just not my concern at all, one way or the
other,” he said. “I’d feel like we did the right thing for the
industry.”  Push Forward  Sprint is already struggling to keep up with its larger
rivals. Hesse’s company hasn’t posted a profit since the third
quarter of 2007 and it has shed contract customers, the people
who sign up for lucrative ongoing monthly service, in 14 of the
last 15 quarters. With 50 million contract subscribers, it has
about half as many as either Verizon or AT&T.  Sprint has a greater debt burden than its larger rivals.
Its debt-to-capital ratio is 57 percent, compared with 41
percent for  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and 37 percent for AT&T,
according to Bloomberg data. Sprint’s long-term debt is rated
Ba3 by Moody’s Investors Service, three steps below investment
grade, while  Standard & Poor’s  rates it an equivalent BB-.  “If the deal goes through, Sprint remains the No. 3 player
in the industry; their ability to ever become an AT&T is shut
off forever,” said  Jonathan Chaplin , a Credit Suisse AG analyst
in New York, who expects the merger will be approved.  The White Room  At the end of an interview, Hesse leads the way through the
locked door in his office to the White Room. It’s named after
the dry-erase white boards that line three walls, extending
almost to the ceiling to accommodate the 6-foot, 5-inch
executive. A small desk lined with colored markers sits in the
middle of the room. Only one deputy has ever been inside.  Hesse explains that this is where he sketched out plans for
Sprint’s partnership with  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  to roll out the first
national fourth-generation wireless network, which he’s
convinced prodded the bigger players to follow more quickly than
they otherwise would have. It’s one example of how Sprint has
helped push the industry forward for years, he said.  Sprint also introduced the first 4G phone, HTC Corp.’s Evo,
pushing the technology into the market. On June 24, the company
came out with the country’s first 3-D smartphone, also from HTC,
that can be used without special glasses.  “We have to stand out, because we’re so much smaller,” he
says. “We have to make people pay attention, do things that are
innovative, do things that are breakthroughs.”  ‘Like A Champion’  Above the door to Hesse’s office is a sign that’s a replica
of one in Notre Dame’s locker room. It reads: “Play Like a
Champion Today.” At his alma mater, football players touch the
sign as they take the field for luck and motivation. Now it’s
Hesse who says he’s taken to slapping the sign as he heads out
for hearings in  Washington  or meetings with regulators.  “An underdog is not thinking about the point spread;
they’re thinking about winning the game,” says Hesse. “We can
win this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  