-- 
Stanley Black & Decker Acquires Insulation for Inclement Housing

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-28T20:19:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/stanley-black-decker-acquires-insulation-for-inclement-housing-real-m-a.html
Stanley Black & Decker Inc. (SWK)  is
making the largest bet since its merger by joining the biggest
wave of security-services takeovers in history as a safeguard
against the U.S. housing market.  Stanley Black & Decker agreed to buy Sweden’s  Niscayah
Group AB (NISCB)  for 7.6 billion kronor ($1.2 billion) yesterday, its
largest deal excluding Stanley Works’s $4.4 billion purchase of
Black & Decker Corp. announced in 2009 combining the two biggest
U.S. toolmakers. Stanley Black & Decker’s offer of 13.9 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
to outbid Securitas AB tops the 10.8 multiple for its Black &
Decker merger and any valuation that Stanley Works or Black &
Decker previously paid, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  New Britain , Connecticut-based maker of cordless power
drills and Bostitch nail guns is boosting sales of video
surveillance and fire alarm systems in Europe by spending cash
held overseas to lessen its dependence on a U.S. housing market
that has lagged behind the rest of the economy. Stanley Black &
Decker isn’t alone. There have been $5.6 billion in security
services takeovers announced already in 2011, more than any
other full year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The reason they are trying to insulate themselves from
the housing business is because they’re skeptical of the
rebound,” said  Malcolm Polley , who oversees $1 billion as chief
investment officer at Stewart Capital in  Indiana ,  Pennsylvania .
“With the consumer still on the ropes, I am sure they are
looking for a way to add stability to their income statement.
Security services is a relatively stable, repeat business.”  ‘Footprint in Europe’  Tim Perra, a spokesman for Stanley Black & Decker, declined
to comment and referred to the company’s conference call
yesterday. Chief Operating Officer James Loree said on the call
that the transaction is “consistent with a strategy that we’ve
been discussing for several years now, which is to expand our
electronic security footprint in Europe.”  Johan Andersson Melbi, a spokesman for Stockholm-based
Niscayah, declined to comment.  Stanley Black & Decker, known for its DeWalt power tools,
got more than half of its revenue last year from construction
and do-it-yourself home improvement equipment, 25 percent from
its security unit and the rest from industrial tools, such as
wrenches used by auto mechanics. With 55 percent of $8.4 billion
in sales generated in the U.S., according to regulatory filings,
the company is trying to increase its presence in Europe by
acquiring Niscayah.  U.S. Recession  The recovery in the housing market and employment gains
that help fuel home sales remain sluggish even after the  longest
U.S. recession  since the Great Depression ended in June 2009.  Purchases of new U.S. houses fell 2.1 percent to an annual
pace of 319,000 in May, data from the Commerce Department showed
last week. The  unemployment rate  was 9.1 percent last month, 1
percentage point less than the 26-year high of 10.1 percent in
October 2009, according to the Labor Department.  “If you take a look at the combination of Stanley and
Black & Decker last year, that opened up the company to more
exposure to the home repair and remodeling segment that is a lot
more volatile,” said Robert Rulla, a debt analyst with  Fitch
Ratings  in  Chicago . “The addition of this at least provides
them with a lot more diversity in terms of both geography and
end market.”  Trumping Securitas  Niscayah, which was spun off in 2006 from Stockholm-based
Securitas, installs and services security systems for banks and
retailers. The business brought in about $922 million in revenue
in 2010, most of which was in continental  Europe .  Stanley Black & Decker’s cash offer for Niscayah, which is
endorsed by the target’s independent board members and already
supported by shareholders owning 19.5 percent of the stock,
trumped a $1.1 billion stock bid including net debt from
Securitas, which was aiming to reclaim the company.  “If they want to be a bigger player in the security
market, when these sizeable assets become available, which is
rare, you have to jump on that,” said Nicole DeBlase, an
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in  New York , who added that the
industry is fragmented by “mom-and-pop” businesses.  The deal is being financed from almost $2 billion in cash
overseas to make use of “unproductive” capital “trapped”
outside the U.S., COO Loree  said  on the conference call. If
Stanley Black & Decker were to repatriate the cash, which
currently earns about 50 basis points in interest, it would
incur taxes of as much as 30 percent, Chief Financial Officer
Donald Allan Jr. said on the call. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  ‘Incredible Strategic Relevance’  Although Stanley Black & Decker stated in a  March 3 
investor presentation that acquisitions were “not likely to
exceed” $500 million to $700 million in total this year, the
company decided on the $1.2 billion deal because of its
“incredible strategic relevance and attractiveness,” COO Loree
said on the call yesterday.  The takeover, including Niscayah’s $163 million in net
debt, values the company at 13.9 times Ebitda in the last 12
months, the highest multiple paid for a publicly traded
securities services firm since 2007, the data show.  “Despite the potential for earnings accretion right out of
the gate, the stock didn’t hop on this news because of
integration risk,” said  Brian Sozzi , an analyst at Wall Street
Strategies in New York. “Black & Decker was a big company to
swallow. They still have many pieces to go before they realize
significant value from that transaction.”  Record Deal Volume  Stanley Black & Decker added 0.3 percent to $69.50
yesterday, compared with a 10 percent jump for Stanley Works
when it said in November 2009 it would combine with Black &
Decker, a deal valued at $5.4 billion when it closed in March
2010. The shares had risen 54 percent since the announcement
through yesterday, outpacing a 23 percent gain for the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index.  Stanley Black & Decker gained 9 cents, or 0.1 percent, to
$69.59 today in New York.  The $5.6 billion of pending and completed security-services
takeovers announced so far in 2011 outstrips the deal volume in
every full year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg going
back to 1999. The previous record was $3.7 billion in 2004.  While Stanley Black & Decker announced the acquisition of
Niscayah yesterday, the company had been vying for Securitas
Direct AB, which ended up being the biggest industry takeover,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Buyout firm EQT Partners AB
sold Securitas Direct, the Malmoe, Sweden-based burglar alarm
company spun off from  Securitas AB (SECUB)  in 2006, to Bain Capital LLC
and Hellman & Friedman LLC for $3.2 billion last week.  Largest Guarding Company  Stanley Black & Decker was among companies that EQT and
Morgan Stanley were trying to lure offers from when the unit was
put up for sale in March, two people with knowledge of the
matter, who declined to be identified because the talks were
private, said at the time.  Securitas, the world’s largest guarding company, made an
unsolicited all-stock offer on May 16 valuing Niscayah at about
6.14 billion kronor plus 1.03 billion kronor in net debt, or
about $1.1 billion in total. It’s now worth 14.8 kronor a share.  Niscayah closed yesterday at 18.20 kronor, higher than
Stanley Black & Decker’s offer of 18 kronor per share, signaling
some traders were betting on a sweetened proposal. The shares
rose 0.6 percent to 18.30 kronor today in  Stockholm .  “Our bid stands and we’re not going to enter a negotiation
process with another rivaling bid,” Gisela Lindstrand, a
spokeswoman for Securitas, said yesterday. “We have bid 16
kronor per share and that’s what we think Niscayah is worth for
us. You never know what will happen with these things. We still
have the ambition to acquire Niscayah.”  Niscayah is attractive to Securitas because most security
contracts involve both guards and technical services and
Securitas now provides the technology aspects through external
providers such as Niscayah, Lindstrand said.  “From Stanley Black & Decker’s standpoint, it would
provide a revenue source that isn’t as dependent on economic
growth,” said Stewart’s Polley. “You don’t make much money on
the installations; you make your money on servicing. Once in
place, it is sticky business that doesn’t migrate away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 