-- 
Standard Chartered Sees Double-Digit Growth in First Half Helped by China

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-06-28T16:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/standard-chartered-sees-double-digit-growth.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K.’s
third-largest bank by market value, said it may post “double-
digit” growth in first-half revenue and pretax profit as it
tightened control on expenses.  Revenue from markets including  Hong Kong , Singapore and
 China  helped offset a decline in India and “muted” growth in
Africa, the London-based bank said today in a statement. Its net
interest margin, a measure of profitability on lending, is
“broadly flat” compared with 2010, it said.  Expenses at the lender, which earns most of its profit in
Asia, are likely to grow in line with revenue even after the
U.K.’s levy on banks’ balance sheets, Chief Executive Officer
 Peter Sands  said. Standard Chartered, seeking its eighth
successive year of record earnings, in May said it will align
revenue and cost growth after hiring 7,000 people last year.  “This is a good sign as it shows that there’s improvement
in the bank’s cost management and that its costs are under
control,”  Dominic Chan , a Hong Kong-based analyst at BNP
Paribas SA who rates the stock a “buy,” said by phone.
“Looking forward, we need to pay attention to the revenue
growth momentum” of its corporate banking business, he added.  Standard Chartered shares climbed 2.7 percent to 1,581
pence in London, paring its decline this year to 8.4 percent.  ‘Firm Grip’  Corporate banking revenue may experience “single digit”
growth for the first half, Standard Chartered said.  Headcount is about 1,200 below December 2010 levels,
Finance Director Richard Meddings told journalists on a
conference call today. The bank plans to hire net about 1,000
people this year and has a “firm grip” on expenses, Meddings
said.  The bank has “a very strong balance sheet which remains
highly liquid, very well capitalized, diverse and
conservative,” Sands said in the statement today. The bank is
“capturing increasing levels of business from our markets
across  Asia , Africa and the  Middle East .”  The bank’s roots date back to British colonial expansion in
Africa and India in the 19th century. The lender is 15.5
percent-owned by Temasek Holdings Pte, Singapore’s state
investment company, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Shanghai at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  