-- 
Stone Roses Rocker Squire Paints Lady Gaga, Trashes Celeb Cult

-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-06-28T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/stone-roses-rocker-john-squire-paints-lady-gaga-savages-celebrity-culture.html
The world is drowning in celebrity
culture, says artist John Squire.  It’s time to protest against being bombarded with images of
stars, he says. Lady Gaga,  Rihanna ,  Lindsay Lohan ,  Keira Knightley  are becoming gods.  Squire knows about fame. Before turning to painting, he
formed U.K. rock band the Stone Roses, whose debut album was
voted by  Observer  critics in 2004 as the greatest of all time.  His latest exhibition is full of paintings named after
well-known people, good, bad and ugly --  David Beckham ,  Woody Allen ,  Cheryl Cole ,  Albert Einstein ,  Phil Spector , Tracey Emin,
Harold Shipman, Magda Goebbels.  They are far from the untutored portraits of Rolling Stone Ronnie Wood. Squire’s works are precisely drawn, complex
patterns that seem to bear no relation to their titles.  “I tried deliberately not to represent these people,”
says Squire, wearing a blue shirt and jeans, staring at an image
titled “Richard Pryor” in London’s Idea Generation Gallery.
“I made sure the composition stood on its own, and then found a
name that seemed to fit.”  Squire, 48, is fascinated by the abstractions in Islamic
art, which is rich in symbols such as eight-pointed stars and
shuns depictions of Allah and Mohammed.  Pop Idols  “Part of the reason these stars and geometric forms exist
is to avoid representing the human form, to avoid idolatry,” he
says. “So I twisted that and used it to represent the people
that symbolize celebrity culture and are overrepresented.”  He is most pleased with a six-foot image titled “ John F. Kennedy ,” which was “particularly eye-watering and
difficult.”  “I chose Kennedy as the first reality-TV star,” Squire
says. “From the televised debates to the televised
assassination and the funeral.”  Looking at his early splashed paintings on Stone Roses
covers, Squire says “they are good record sleeves. They are
homages to  Jackson Pollock  if you like: I wouldn’t try to pass
them off as my own work.”  After his 2004 solo album, “Marshall’s House,” inspired
by the painter  Edward Hopper , Squire became more interested in
visuals than sound. His first art show in London and Manchester
that year was followed by others in Belgium, Tokyo and
Edinburgh. Squire has illustrated Penguin book covers and has
restlessly worked with sand, oil, fabric and mixed media.  Rocker Baggage  The art world has often been critical of musicians who try
painting, such as  Bob Dylan  and  Joni Mitchell . “I’ve been
turned down for shows by people who like the work but say I come
with too much baggage: I can understand,” says Squire.  Some of his pictures are inspired by older music such as
that of  Miles Davis . He’s not impressed by many modern acts.  “I’m still listening to Hendrix, the Beach Boys, the
Stones, Funkadelic, people like that,” Squire says. “It’s a
trait of the older generations to always hark back to better
times but I think music has been in a downward slide since
probably the mid-1970s. I still play guitar occasionally. I play
piano with my daughter.”  The Stone Roses broke up after an album called “Second
Coming.” The question keeps coming up as to whether there will
be a third? Squire says that he is happy with his art.  Can we take that to mean no more John Squire, the rock
star? “If you say so,” he says.  When the TV camera is switched off, he leaves the door open
to a Stone Roses reunion: “Never say never,” Squire says.  Don’t hold your breath, yet it might just happen.  “John Squire: Celebrity,” presented with  Vivienne Gaskin
Cultural Management Ltd. , is at Idea Generation Gallery, 11
Chance Street, Shoreditch,  London  E2 7JB, through July 3, 2011.  Limited-edition prints are available for sale, with more
online. Information:  http://www.johnsquire.com/ ,
+44-20-7749-6850,  http://www.ideageneration.co.uk .  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  or Mark_Beech on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 