-- 
Swire in Talks to Sell Hong Kong Mall for $2.83 Billion, Sing Tao Reports

-- B y   B i l l y   C h a n   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-06-28T08:17:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/swire-in-talks-to-sell-hong-kong-mall-for-2-83-billion-sing-tao-reports.html
Swire Pacific Ltd. (19)  is in talks to
sell a Hong Kong shopping mall to Singapore-based Mapletree
Investment Pte for HK$22 billion ($2.83 billion), Sing Tao Daily
reported, citing an unidentified person.  The sale of Festival Walk in Kowloon Tong district, if
successful, would be the biggest property transaction in the
city’s history, the Chinese-language Hong Kong newspaper said,
without citing anyone.  Mapletree Investments, a unit of Temasek Holdings Pte,
 Singapore ’s state-owned investment company, said in an e-mailed
statement that it declined to comment on the report. May Lam, a
Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Swire Pacific, also declined to
comment.  Completed in 1998, Festival Walk sits on top of the Kowloon
Tong subway station on the Kowloon Peninsula. The more than 1
million-square-foot shopping mall features tenants including
clothing brands  Calvin Klein  and Giorgio Armani and department
store Marks & Spencer. It has 220,000 square feet of  office
space .  Hong Kong-based Swire Pacific was reported to be planning
to spin off the commercial complex into a real estate investment
trust, the  Hong Kong  Economic Times newspaper reported in
September 2007. The company, which controls Hong Kong’s biggest
carrier, in 2006 bought the 50 percent of Festival Walk it
didn’t already own from Citic Pacific Ltd. for HK$6.18 billion.  Mapletree and its units own shopping malls in Singapore
including VivoCity and HabourFront Centre, as well as the St.
James Power Station entertainment complex in the city-state.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  