-- 
Swire Pacific Says It’s in Talks to Divest a ‘Significant’ Property Asset

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-06-28T10:00:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/swire-pacific-says-it-s-in-talks-to-divest-a-significant-property-asset.html
Swire Pacific Ltd. (19)  said it’s in
talks to sell a “significant” property after Sing Tao Daily
reported the Hong Kong office and retail landlord may divest 
one of its shopping malls for HK$22 billion ($2.83 billion).  Singapore ’s Mapletree Investment Pte is in discussions to
buy the Festival Walk retail complex in the Kowloon Tong
district of Hong Kong, Sing Tao said today, citing a person it
didn’t identify.  Swire Pacific “is in discussions which may lead to the
disposal of a significant investment property asset,” and will
make a further announcement “if these discussions lead to an
agreement to make such a disposal,” the company said in a
statement to the  Hong Kong  stock exchange today.  Swire Pacific has been selling its assets after shelving a
plan to spinoff its real estate unit last year. Hong Kong
overtook Sydney as the world’s second-most expensive city to
lease shopping space after rents jumped 46 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months, according to a report by
CB Richard Ellis Group Inc.  The sale of Festival Walk, if successful, would be the
biggest property transaction in the city’s history, Sing Tao
said, without citing anyone.  Swire Pacific fell 0.1 percent to HK$109.70 at the 4 p.m.
close in Hong Kong today, extending its loss this year to 14
percent. The  Hang Seng Index  fell 4.2 percent in the period.  Share Sale  Mapletree Investments, a unit of Temasek Holdings Pte,
Singapore’s state-owned investment company, said in an e-mailed
statement that it declined to comment on the report. May Lam, a
Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Swire Pacific, also declined to
comment.  Mapletree Investments has teamed up with  Malaysia ’s  UEM
Land Holdings Bhd. (ULHB)  in a downtown Singapore development that’s
part of an S$11 billion ($8.9 billion) project which will
include malls, apartments and offices, Temasek said yesterday.  Completed in 1998, Festival Walk sits on top of the Kowloon
Tong subway station on the Kowloon Peninsula. The more than 1
million-square-foot mall features tenants including clothing
brands  Calvin Klein  and  Giorgio Armani  and department store
Marks & Spencer. It has 220,000 square feet of  office space .  Swire Properties Ltd., the company’s real estate unit, in
2010 shelved its plan to raise as much as HK$20.8 billion in an
initial public offering in Hong Kong. The decision was made
after considering “the deterioration in market conditions,”
the company said in a statement last year.  Pacific Place  The landlord to Societe Generale SA and Time Warner Inc.
owns commercial complexes such as Pacific Place and Island East.  The company in November sold a 50 percent stake in the PCCW
Tower at Taikoo Place, on  Hong Kong Island , to property and fund
management group Grosvenor Group Ltd. for a gain of HK$342
million. It also made a profit of HK$771 million from the sale
of its interest in Crown Beverage Cans in September.  The company, which controls Hong Kong’s biggest carrier, in
2006 bought the 50 percent of Festival Walk it didn’t already
own from Citic Pacific Ltd. for HK$6.18 billion.  Created as a trading company in  London  in 1816, Swire
Pacific also bottles Coca-Cola in  China  and supplies offshore
oil rigs.  Mapletree Investments owns the HabourFront Centre in
Singapore, as well as the St. James Power Station entertainment
complex in the city-state. It sold shares of its Mapletree
Commercial Trust two months ago. The trust owns VivoCity, one of
the island’s biggest shopping malls.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  