-- 
Swiss Franc May Climb to Parity Against Euro on a Greek Default, UBS Says

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-06-28T10:41:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/swiss-franc-may-climb-to-parity-against-euro-on-a-greek-default-ubs-says.html
The Swiss franc may strengthen to
parity with the euro should  Greece  suffer “a disorderly
default” that sparks contagion through the region, according to
UBS AG.  “In the scenario where you get a very disorderly default
that sparks off a banking crisis and contagion to the rest of
the euro-zone periphery, then we could see euro-Swiss go to
parity or lower,” said  Geoffrey Yu , a currency strategist in
London at UBS, the world’s third-biggest foreign-exchange
trader. “It would be the classic insurance trade effect.”  The franc appreciated 0.3 percent to 1.18947 per euro as of
11:30 a.m. in London, after reaching 1.18860. It strengthened to
a record 1.18064 on June 24 and is 5.2 percent higher against
the 17-nation currency this year. The franc rose 0.1 percent to
83.42 centimes against the dollar.  The  Swiss franc  is best performer among 10 developed-market
currencies this year as measured by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes amid deepening concern that a solution to the
Greek debt crisis will evade European officials.  A “voluntary rollover” of Greek bonds as they mature into
debt with similar terms would “very likely” be viewed by  Fitch
Ratings  as a sovereign default, according to  David Riley , the
company’s group managing director with responsibility for
sovereign ratings and international public finance.  “Fitch would very likely view such a scenario as a
sovereign-default event and place the Greek sovereign rating
into restricted default,” Riley wrote in a letter in the
Financial Times published today.  UBS’s “base case” is for the Swiss franc to trade at
about 1.20 per euro over the next month and to end the year at
1.35, said Yu. The bank expects the franc to weaken to 86
centimes per dollar over one month, 89 centimes over three
months and to reach 1.04 francs in a year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  