-- 
Swiss Stocks Climb; UBS, Credit Suisse Rise as Logitech Drops

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-06-28T15:48:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/swiss-stocks-advance-as-ubs-credit-suisse-meyer-burger-climb.html
Swiss stocks climbed, rebounding
from an 11-month low, as Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
called on lawmakers to back tougher austerity measures.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s biggest
banks, advanced at least 0.8 percent.  Logitech International SA (LOGN) ,
the world’s largest maker of computer mice, dropped 1.4 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies rose 0.2 percent to 6,002.4 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Zurich. Even so, the SMI has tumbled 11 percent since
its high this year on Feb. 18 as U.S. manufacturing and jobs
reports fueled concern that the recovery is faltering and as
investors speculated that  Greece  will default on its debt. The
broader Swiss Performance Index gained 0.3 percent today.  “The market expects that Greece will accept the austerity
package, which is why we see a friendlier market today,” said
Roland Schuermann, a trader at Luzerner Kantonalbank in Lucerne,
 Switzerland . “When they do accept the package, there will
surely be an improvement on the equity markets.”  Papandreou called on lawmakers to obey their “patriotic
conscience” and back tougher austerity measures, as they began
to debate a five-year budget plan that will determine whether
the cash-strapped nation can avoid default.  Greek Debt  A vote on the package of budget cuts and asset sales that’s
needed before Greece can tap a fifth loan payment from last
year’s 110-billion-euro ($157 billion) rescue is expected
tomorrow. An implementation law, which provides the technical
details of how the five-year plan will be applied is also due to
be discussed and approved by the deadline of June 30.  “Voting for the medium-term plan means we can close this
chapter of uncertainty for the Greek people,” Papandreou said
at the start of a three-day debate on the program in Parliament
in  Athens  yesterday. “From the brink of catastrophe we are
securing, colleagues, the great opportunity to change our
country.”  In the U.S.,  house prices  decreased in April, showing that
the housing market remains an obstacle to the economic recovery.
The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities fell
4 percent from April 2010, the biggest year-on-year drop since
November 2009. That matched the median forecast of 30 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report showed that  consumer
confidence  dropped to a seven-month low in June.  UBS climbed 2.4 percent to 14.77 Swiss francs and Credit
Suisse rose 0.8 percent to 31.88 francs as Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. named the companies as two of its most preferred stocks.  ‘Cheap’ Banks  “European banks are exceptionally cheap, both relative to
the European market as a whole and relative to the valuations
applied to U.S. banks,” Dirk Hoffmann-Becking, a senior analyst
at Bernstein, wrote in a note to clients today. An orderly
restructuring of Greece and Portugal during the next 12 months
is likely, “and hence we are positive on the sector,” he said.  Schulthess Group (SGRN)  AG, the maker of washing machines and
dryers, rose 8.8 percent to 55.50 francs after Nibe Industrier
AB said it has a 96.52 percent stake in the company and expects
its acquisition to close on July 29.  Logitech dropped 1.4 percent to 8.65 francs, the lowest
level since 2002. That’s the company’s fifth straight day of
declines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  