-- 
Axa Breaks Ranks With British Insurers to End ‘Rotten Culture’

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-06-28T15:10:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/u-k-minister-says-legal-aid-law-to-end-compensation-culture-.html
Axa SA became the first insurer in
the U.K. to end sales of customer details to lawyers after
politicians said they were feeding a “rotten suing culture”
that has caused motor insurance premiums to climb at the fastest
rate on record.  Europe ’s second-largest insurer will “lead by example”
and cease to accept payments from personal injury lawyers for
customer referrals, Paris-based Axa said today. The  Association
of British Insurers  blames referral fees for fuelling the higher
frequency and cost of whiplash claims.  “Referral fees have only served to promote an even greater
number of injury claims and AXA will stop this practice whilst
government implements the necessary legislation to restore
order,” said Paul Evans, chief executive officer of Axa U.K.,
the country’s third biggest non-life insurer.  While the fees are part of a “rotten suing culture,” the
U.K. has no plans to ban them, Justice Minister Jonathan Djanogly told the  British Broadcasting Corp.  today. Instead,
government proposals being debated in Parliament tomorrow will
limit lawyers’ fees and so help end Britain’s “compensation
culture,” he said. According to the ABI, insurers feared that
if they broke ranks and banned the practice it would allow
competitors to benefit.  Axa also called for “a fundamental evaluation of whiplash
and other minor ‘trauma’ claims to eliminate fraud and bring
some sense back to the cost of these claims.” Whiplash is a
soft-tissue injury doctors cannot verify using X-rays or scans.  Accident Claims  The average U.K. motor insurance premium has risen 40
percent in the past year to about 900 pounds ($1,440) following
soaring claims costs and rising fraud, according to the
 Automobile Association Ltd.  Insurers have helped fuel these
costs by selling customers’ details to no-win no-fee lawyers,
who then encourage accident victims to claim.  “If insurers weren’t doing it then someone else would,”
Malcolm Tarling, an ABI spokesman, said today. “Banning
referral fees should form part of wide-ranging reforms to
whiplash injury claims.”  The referral issue arose yesterday when former Justice
Secretary Jack Straw called for a ban on insurers selling
details of their customers to lawyers and car-hire companies.  The proposals being debated in Parliament tomorrow mean
lawyers’ fees will be paid from the winning claimant’s damages
rather than by the defendant, Djanogly said.  “Claimant lawyers will be more cautious to take on
cases,” he said. “Claimants will have an interest in what
they’re paying their lawyer. That will be the key for reducing
costs.”  ‘Excess of Money’  The ABI said yesterday it favors an outright ban of
referral fees even though they contribute significant revenue to
insurers. A 2010  review  of civil litigation costs by Lord
Justice Jackson also recommended banning referral fees.  “Banning anything is not necessarily going to solve the
problem,” Djanogly said.  Some police forces are charging fees for tipping off
wreckage clearance firms after an accident, according to data
obtained by insurer Swiftcover.com, a unit of  Axa SA (CS) , through
the Freedom of Information Act.  The wreckage firm subsequently bills the at-fault driver’s
insurer for their services.  West Midlands Police  made 24,891
referrals in 2009, charging 25 pounds each, the data showed.  The government would ban police from selling customers’
personal information if they were found to be doing so, Djanogly
said. “We have very stringent data protection laws.”  The Association of Chief Police Officers said forces do not
sell victims’ details to lawyers.  “The figure of 1.3 million pounds referred to by Jack
Straw represents fees charged to vehicle recovery companies,”
said Chief Constable Phil Gormley in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 