-- 
U.K. Stocks Advance, Led by Banks as Investors Bet on Greece

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-06-28T16:08:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/u-k-stocks-advance-for-third-straight-day-as-utilities-increase.html
U.K. stocks rose for a third day,
led by a rally in banks, as investors speculated that Greece
will avoid a default and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  said it will
post “double digit” growth.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Barclays Plc gained
more than 1.5 percent in London trading, while mining companies
climbed with metal prices. Severn Trent Plc and United Utilities
Group Plc also advanced as analysts recommended the water
companies after  Northumbrian Water Group Plc (NWG)  became the target
of a possible takeover bid.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  increased 44.54, or 0.8
percent, to 5,766.88 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The gauge
has still lost 5.3 percent from this year’s peak in February
amid mounting concern that Greece will default on its debt. The
broader All-Share Index gained 0.7 percent today as did
Ireland’s ISEQ Index.  “Traders bought into risky asset classes on optimism that
 Greece  would secure the funding it requires,” said Joshua Raymond, chief market strategist at  City Index  in London. “The
financial markets appear relatively calm and optimistic that
Greece’s new austerity measures will pass a vote in
parliament.”  U.K. stocks rose yesterday as Greek lawmakers met to debate
budget cuts that the European Union has made a condition of
providing further aid to the indebted country.  Germany’s biggest banks and insurers will meet the  Finance
Ministry  in Berlin tomorrow as they seek to reach an agreement
on their contribution to a Greek aid package, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Banks Hold Talks  Separately, HSBC Holdings Plc Chief Executive Officer
Stuart Gulliver today said the bank and other lenders have
discussed Greece’s debt payments with the Institute of
International Finance.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  faces his second
survival test in a week tomorrow when lawmakers vote on the
package of budget cuts. The first session of the three-day
debate began in Athens yesterday.  RBS rallied 4.2 percent to 36.6 pence, the first advance in
five days. Barclays climbed 1.9 percent to 242 pence and Lloyds
Banking Group Plc increased 1.8 percent to 44.2 pence.  Banks also advanced after  Standard Chartered , the U.K.’s
third-largest bank by market value, said it may post “double-
digit” growth in first-half revenue and pretax profit as it
tightened control on expenses. Net interest margin, a measure of
profitability on lending, was “broadly flat” compared with
2010, the bank said. The stock rose 2.7 percent to 1,581 pence.  Kazakhmys, Vedanta, Antofagasta  Kazakhmys Plc increased 2.9 percent to 1,300 pence as
copper rose for the second time in three days in London. Vedanta
Resources Plc advanced 3.5 percent to 1,972 pence and
Antofagasta Plc rose 1.6 percent to 1,303 pence.  Severn Trent gained 2.3 percent to 1,448 pence, while
United Utilities advanced 0.9 percent to 592.5 pence. Cheung
Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd., controlled by Hong Kong
billionaire  Li Ka-shing , said yesterday it’s considering a cash
offer for Northumbrian Water, sending the utility’s shares up 8
percent. The stock gained 0.8 percent to 416.7 pence today.  Evolution Securities raised its recommendation for all
three companies to “add,” while analysts at BofA Merrill Lynch
Global Research said Severn Trent and United Utilities have the
most potential for gains following Cheung Kong’s announcement.  Prudential, Legal & General  Prudential rallied 2.6 percent to 705.5 pence after Goldman
Sachs raised its recommendation for the insurer to “buy” from
“neutral.” The brokerage also upgraded  Legal & General Group
Plc (LGEN) , the U.K.’s fourth-biggest insurer by market value, to
“neutral” from “sell.” The stock increased 1.3 percent to
111 pence.  Smiths Group Plc, the world’s biggest maker of airport-
security scanners, surged 3.8 percent to 1,149 pence. Chief
Executive Officer Philip Bowman said the company is aiming to
accelerate investment to drive “top-line growth over the
medium” term, while improving margins. Bowman and executives
were updating investors on its strategy in  New York  today.  Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/)  plunged 14 percent to 45
pence after the telecommunications company said full-year profit
will miss estimates because of slower-than-expected sales orders
and Chief Executive Officer Jim Marsh resigned.  PV Crystalox Solar Plc (PVCS)  sank 43 percent to 22.3 pence after
the U.K.’s biggest maker of silicon wafers said it will report
its first operating loss in the second half should market
conditions not improve.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  