-- 
U.S. Treasury Criticizes Currency Comptroller on State Rules

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-06-28T23:36:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/u-s-treasury-criticizes-currency-comptroller-on-state-rules.html
The U.S. Treasury Department
criticized one of its independent agencies, the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, for a proposed rule preempting some
state banking regulations on consumer protection under the Dodd-
Frank act.  “The OCC’s proposed rule is not centered on the key
language of Dodd-Frank’s preemption standard and seeks to
broaden the standard,” Treasury General Counsel George Madison
wrote in a letter yesterday to the OCC. He called the OCC’s
proposal on preemption “inconsistent” and contrary to Dodd-
Frank.  On May 25, the OCC, which supervises national banks, issued
a proposed rule interpreting its role in exempting the financial
institutions from state  consumer protection laws .  State governments say Dodd-Frank gives them power to apply
their consumer protection laws to national banks. The OCC said
its authority to preempt the state laws largely remains intact
even after passage of Dodd-Frank last year. The OCC also said it
would consult with the new federal Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau prior to blocking states from applying their consumer
protection laws to national banks.  The Treasury argued that the OCC interpretation does not
properly interpret Dodd-Frank, is too broad and does not align
with the law’s case-by-case requirement for preempting the state
laws.  Proposed Rule  “The rule seems to take the position that the Dodd-Frank
standard has no effect: the proposed rule expressly argues that
the new Dodd-Frank standard would not change the outcome of any
previous determination, and the same logic would apply to any
future determination,” Madison wrote. “The notion that the new
standard does not have any effect runs afoul of basic canons of
statutory construction; it is also contrary to the legislative
history.”  Treasury requested that the OCC clarify the proposal so
that any future preemption determination be made only on a case-
by-case basis and after consultation with the CFPB.  The OCC, however, interpreted Dodd-Frank to give states
authority to apply their consumer protection laws to
subsidiaries of national banks.  “We appreciate the important points raised in the comments
submitted by Treasury and other commenters, and we will be
closely reviewing all the comments we’ve received as we finalize
the regulation,” Bob Garsson, an OCC spokesman, said in an e-
mailed response to the Treasury letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  