-- 
U.S. Credit Swaps Drop Amid Optimism Greece Will Avoid Default

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-06-28T21:27:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/u-s-credit-swaps-drop-amid-optimism-greece-will-avoid-default.html
The cost of protecting U.S. company
bonds fell by the most in a week as investor optimism grew that
 Greece  can avoid a default that may trigger losses at banks and
disrupt credit markets.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, declined 2.1 basis points to a
mid-price of 98 basis points as of 5:10 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, decreased for
the second day as Greece’s lawmakers vote tomorrow on a package
of budget cuts and asset sales. Creditors including German and
French banks may be headed toward a rollover agreement involving
70 percent of their bonds to prevent the country from running
out of cash.  Investors are speculating that the package’s passage will
lead to the “sale of state-owned assets into overseas hands,”
according to  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market analyst at
Interactive Brokers Group LLC in Greenwich,  Connecticut .  The credit swaps index has declined from 101 basis points
on June 24, the highest level since Oct. 4.  A proposal by French banks to roll over Greek debt depends
upon credit-rating firms not cutting Greece and existing or
newly issued government securities to default, according to a
draft of the plan. European banks and insurers are using the
proposal as a blueprint for discussions toward an agreement to
meet politicians’ calls that they contribute to Greece’s second
rescue in two years.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  