-- 
U.S. Stocks Rise Amid Greek Bailout Expectations as Nike Jumps

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-06-28T21:14:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/u-s-stock-index-futures-decline-garmin-shares-fall-in-european-trading.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to its highest level in three weeks,
amid optimism European nations will take action to prevent a
Greek default and after  Nike Inc. (NKE) ’s earnings beat estimates.  Nike rallied 10 percent as higher North American sales
helped the world’s largest sporting-goods company top profit
projections.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Alcoa Inc. (AA) 
added at least 2.1 percent, pacing gains in companies most-tied
to economic growth.  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  climbed 2.4 percent after
the largest U.S. home-improvement retailer said that it is
targeting about $3.5 billion in share repurchases for 2011.  The S&P 500 advanced 1.3 percent to 1,296.67 at 4 p.m. in
New York, rising to the highest closing level since June 3. The
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  increased 145.13 points, or 1.2
percent, to 12,188.69 today. More than 6.1 billion shares
changed hands on U.S. exchanges at 5:12 p.m., 14 percent less
than the three-month average through yesterday.  “The rally is a continuation of the global growth story,”
said Sean Kraus, who oversees about $2.2 billion as chief
investment officer at Citizens Business Bank in Pasadena,
 California . “There’s relief around  Greece . As a global company,
people looked at Nike to say, ‘hey, how was the global economy
really doing on the consumer side?’ Because Nike actually had a
very good quarter, that was a surprise to the market.”  Energy, consumer discretionary and raw material companies
posted the biggest gains today among 10 industries in the  S&P
500 , rising at least 1.7 percent. Since the index bottomed on
March 16, defensive industries such as health-care,
telecommunications and utilities have risen the most as
investors sought havens on speculation growth is slowing.  German Banks  Global stocks rallied today as two people with knowledge of
the matter told Bloomberg News that  Germany ’s biggest banks and
insurers will meet with the  Finance Ministry  in Berlin tomorrow
as they seek to reach an agreement on their contribution to a
Greek aid package.  German and French lenders are the biggest European holders
of Greek debt and their participation in the plan is key to the
European Union goal of getting banks to roll over at least 30
billion euros ($43 billion) of bonds. The debt swap is part of a
broader aid package European Union leaders have pledged to pass
next month to prevent the euro-region’s first default a year
after the Greek bailout that failed to stop the debt crisis.  “The Germans and the French are the key players,” said
 Mike Shea , a managing partner and trader at Direct Access
Partners LLC in  New York . “The market is looking for some kind
of clarity. Nobody expects a permanent solution right now, but
if the German banks are on board with the French plan it
indicates that we are closer to some kind of resolution.”  Nike Boosts Sales  Nike jumped 10 percent to $89.90. Chief Executive Officer
Mark Parker has boosted sales and reduced marketing costs from a
year earlier, when Nike promoted around the  World Cup , to fight
rising costs for cotton, labor and transportation that have
reduced profitability in the apparel industry this year.  “Nike had strong earnings,” said  Dan Veru , chief
investment officer at Fort Lee, New Jersey-based Palisade
Capital Management LLC, which oversees $3.8 billion. “We’re
coming into earnings season, which is going to be good. What is
going to drive the stock market is going to be earnings. U.S.
companies are doing very well.”  Alcoa is the first Dow average company to report second-
quarter earnings on July 11. Earnings at S&P 500 companies rose
13 percent in the three-month period ending June 30, according
to a Bloomberg survey with analysts. Net income will rise 20
percent in 2011, the data showed.  Industrials, Commodities  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index rose 1.5 percent as 29 of
its 30 stocks rallied. The Dow Jones Transportation Average of
20 stocks, a proxy for economic growth, added 1.4 percent. The
S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities advanced 2.2 percent as crude
oil rebounded from a four-month low and metals rallied.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, gained 3 percent to $103.84. Exxon Mobil increased
2.2 percent to $79.63. Alcoa advanced 2.4 percent to $15.65.  Home Depot climbed 2.4 percent, the third-biggest gain in
the Dow, to $36.06. The home-improvement retailer closed at the
highest level since May 31.  Accenture Plc (ACN)  rose 3.2 percent to $59.65. The world’s
second-largest technology-consulting firm will replace  Marshall
& Ilsley Corp. (MI)  in the S&P 500 after the close of trading on July
5, S&P said. The change is being made because  Bank of Montreal (BMO) 
is acquiring Marshall & Ilsley in a deal expected to be
completed around that date.  LinkedIn Soars  LinkedIn Corp. soared 12 percent to $85.56. JPMorgan Chase
& Co. predicted that the shares would climb to $85 in the next
18 months, giving them an “overweight” rating, while Bank of
America Corp. has a “buy” recommendation and an estimate of
$92. UBS AG, which also assigned a “buy” rating, expects the
stock to increase to $90. Morgan Stanley projected $88, with an
“overweight” rating.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  rose 1.9 percent to $20.55. The world’s biggest
drugmaker said the U.S. Food and Drug Administration accepted
the company’s filing for review of axitinib for patients with
advanced kidney cancer.  The S&P 500 may extend its gains from a three-month low to
as much as 4.1 percent after a trend measure sent out its first
buy signal since April, according to Piper Jaffray Cos.  The Moving Average Convergence/Divergence line, calculated
by subtracting the S&P 500’s average level during the past 26
days from the average over the past 12 days, crossed last week
above the “signal line” that plots the 9-day average
difference between the two. That suggests the gain is likely to
continue and help drive the S&P 500 to its 50-day moving
average, or 1,317, said Craig W. Johnson, a technical market
strategist with Piper Jaffray in  Minneapolis .  “People know the summer doldrums probably won’t carry
through into the fall,” he said in an interview. “They’re
trying to use pullbacks toward the 200-day average as the
opportunity buying stocks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  