-- 
Consumer Confidence in U.S. Unexpectedly Increased in July on Jobs Outlook

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-26T14:34:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/u-s-consumer-confidence-hits-seven-month-low.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
unexpectedly rose in July from an eight-month low, led by a
rebound in the outlook for jobs over the next six months.  The Conference Board’s index climbed to 59.5 from a revised
57.6 reading in June that was lower than previously estimated,
figures from the New York-based private research group showed
today. Economists predicted the July gauge would fall to 56,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Easing fuel prices may make households more comfortable
opening their wallets in the second half of the year. At the
same time, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
Congress earlier this month that unemployment above 9 percent
and falling home values are a concern for Americans, which may
restrain any recovery in  consumer spending .  “People are feeling a little bit better now that falling
gasoline prices have taken some of the burden off of their
pocket book,” said  Russell Price , a senior economist at
Ameriprise Financial Services Inc. in  Detroit . “Despite the
dire employment situation, people are feeling better about their
own employment situation.”  Estimates for the Conference Board’s gauge ranged from 50
to 60 in the Bloomberg News survey of 73 economists. The index
averaged 98 during the last economic expansion that ended in
December 2007.  Housing Slump  Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities dropped in the year ended May
by the most in 18 months, adding to evidence the housing market
is struggling, another report today showed. The S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values fell 4.5 percent from May 2010. The
decline matched the median forecast of 32 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Sales of new homes unexpectedly declined for a second month
in June, indicating housing is still languishing two years into
the economic recovery, a report from the Commerce Department
also showed today. Purchases dropped 1 percent to a 312,000
annual pace, a three-month low.  Stocks dropped as wrangling between lawmakers over plans to
raise the federal debt limit offset better-than-forecast
earnings from Ford Motor Co. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
decreased 0.4 percent to 1,331.52 at 10:33 a.m. in  New York .
 Treasury securities  rose, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-
year note down to 2.97 percent from 3 percent late yesterday.  Confidence Breakdown  The Conference Board’s confidence report showed a measure
of present conditions fell to 35.7, the weakest since February,
from 36.6 in June. The measure of expectations for the next six
months increased to 75.4, almost entirely retracing the previous
month’s drop.  Today’s report is at odds with the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of consumer
sentiment which plunged to a two-year low in July. The
Conference Board’s measure is more in line with the Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index which has been hovering at levels
previously consistent with recessions.  The percent of respondents in the Conference Board survey
expecting more jobs to become available in the next six months
climbed to 16.7 from 13.8 the previous month. The proportion
expecting their incomes to rise over the next six months
advanced to 15.7 from 14.1 in June. The percent expecting a drop
in incomes also rose to the highest level in a year.  Jobs Outlook  The share of consumers who said jobs are currently hard to
get increased to 44.1 percent from 43.2 percent in June,
signaling little improvement for the July employment data. The
gain in confidence wasn’t broad-based as four of nine U.S.
regions showed an improvement in sentiment, according to today’s
report.  More respondents in the Conference Board’s survey indicated
they were planning to buy a house, while fewer intended to
purchase cars or major appliances in the next six months.  A struggling labor market may be weighing on Americans’
outlooks, keeping consumers out of stores. Employers added
18,000 jobs in June, the smallest gain in nine months, as the
 unemployment rate  rose to 9.2 percent, according to Labor
Department figures.  Bernanke said this month that “disappointing” job growth
in May and June were due to temporary effects, including higher
energy costs and parts shortages from  Japan . He said central
bankers would take additional steps, including buying  government
bonds , if economic growth stagnates. Still, he said the Fed
isn’t ready to start a third round of asset purchases.  ‘Temporary Shocks’  “Once the temporary shocks that have been holding down
economic activity pass, we expect to again see the effects of
policy accommodation reflected in stronger economic activity and
 job creation ,” Bernanke told the House Financial Services
Committee on July 13.  Lagging  consumer confidence , high commodity prices and weak
employment gains are combining to make the sales climate more
difficult than expected, said Steven Burd, chief executive
officer of grocer  Safeway Inc. (SWY)   “Everybody has to appreciate that these are pretty unusual
times,” Burd said on a conference call with analysts on July
21. “I don’t think anybody expected fuel costs to be up 32% on
the year, unemployment to be at 9.2 and consumer confidence to
be hovering around 60.”  Pleasanton, California-based Safeway retreated from an
earlier 1 percent to 1.5 percent projection for growth in same
store sales excluding fuel. Instead, the company expects an
uptick closer to 1 percent, officials said on the call.  The stalemate in Washington over raising the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt ceiling could also be clouding consumers’ moods.
Party leaders are readying dueling proposals to cut the
government’s budget deficit and raise the debt-ceiling by Aug.
2, the date the Treasury Department says the U.S. will lose its
borrowing authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Berman in  Washington  at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  