-- 
U.S. Bank Stress-Testing, India Funds, EU Tax: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-06-28T12:02:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/u-s-bank-stress-test-india-funds-eu-tax-video-game-limits-compliance.html
Most large U.S. banks that weathered
the financial crisis by strengthening the level and quality of
their capital should be able to pass future stress tests, said a
researcher at the Federal Reserve Bank of  San Francisco .  Banks have managed over the past two years to improve their
 capital ratios , regardless of whether they participated in the
stress tests of 2009, Fred Furlong, a group vice president in
the San Francisco Fed’s economic research department, said in a
paper released yesterday, without identifying the banks.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are among those that took steps
to bolster their capital positions in 2009.  Global central bank governors agreed this weekend on extra
capital rules for banks whose size or systemic importance means
their failure could cause another financial crisis. Regulators
agreed that as many as 30 of the world’s largest lenders should
face surcharges that range from 1 percentage point to as much as
2.5 percentage points of core capital to prevent them from
causing another financial crisis.  The decision to make too-big-to-fail banks primarily use
retained earnings and ordinary shares to meet heightened  capital
requirements  was a victory for U.S. regulators over their
European counterparts.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision largely rejected
requests from European countries to use some forms of contingent
instruments to satisfy the new capital buffers. Regulators have
yet to prove that so-called CoCo bonds, which convert into
ordinary shares if a trigger event occurs, can absorb a bank’s
losses, a person familiar with the negotiations said.  The decision was part of the Basel Committee’s overhaul
this weekend of rules on how much capital the world’s largest
and most systemically important banks must hold.  For more, click here.  India Allows Foreign Individuals to Put $10 Billion in Funds  India allowed foreigners to invest up to $10 billion
individually in the country’s mutual funds as the government
seeks to increase participation in the nation’s stock markets,
Asia’s fourth-biggest.  The  Securities and Exchange Board of India , the markets
regulator, will set rules for the so-called qualified foreign
investors by Aug. 1, Thomas Mathew, joint secretary at the
 finance ministry , told reporters in  New Delhi  yesterday.  The plan, announced in February by Finance Minister Pranab
Mukherjee, may broaden foreign fund flows and make the markets
less volatile, said Mathew. Overseas inflows reached a record
1.33 trillion rupees in 2010, making India the best performer
among the world’s 10 biggest equity markets. Foreign funds have
withdrawn a net 19.3 billion rupees since Jan. 1, pushing down
the Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index 10 percent.  Indian mutual funds managed 7.04 trillion rupees ($156
billion) at the end of March, data compiled by Bloomberg show  EU May Propose Financial-Transaction Tax Under 2014-2020 Budget  European Union regulators may propose a levy on financial
transactions under the EU budget beginning in 2014 to diversify
sources of revenue.  David Boublil, tax spokesman of the  European Commission ,
the 27-nation EU’s regulatory arm in Brussels, yesterday
described the levy as an “option,” adding that the matter has
not yet been decided.  The commission intends this week to propose the EU’s
spending program for the seven years starting in 2014. National
governments finance 70 percent of the EU budget, leading the
commission to seek ways of diversifying sources of revenue.  Any proposal for a financial-transaction tax in the
2014-2020 budget would need the unanimous support of EU
governments, Boublil said.  Compliance Action  Blackstone Pressed by SEC for More Disclosure on Compensation  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest private-equity
firm, was asked by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
for more detail about how its top executives are paid, as buyout
firms continue to confront the scrutiny that comes with public
listings.  The SEC, in a letter dated April 25, asked New York-based
Blackstone for further information about compensation for the
firm’s so-called named executive officers. The letter, along
with the company’s May 9 response, was disclosed in filings
yesterday by Blackstone.  The correspondence underscores the additional information
required when private partnerships become publicly traded
companies. Carlyle Group, the world’s second-largest private-
equity company, has selected bankers to lead its own IPO, after
competitors such as KKR & Co. and Apollo Global Management LP
gained public listings in New York in the past 12 months.  The SEC pressed Blackstone to spell out in future filings
how Schwarzman, who has “sole discretion” adjust executives’
compensation and their portion of profits according to the
letter, made those determinations.  The SEC’s four-page letter is a response to the firm’s 2010
annual report filed earlier this year. It also asked for more
information about a pending class-action lawsuit tied to the
firm’s 2007 initial public offering.  The firm said it would detail in future filings how
compensation is based on the performance of its funds, the
growth in profit and distributable earnings, as well as
“Blackstone’s success in achieving strategic objectives which
we will outline as applicable in the relevant period.”  U.K. Insurers Investigated on Data Sales After Injury ‘Epidemic’  The U.K.’s  Information Commissioner  is investigating
whether insurers are breaching data protection law by selling
details of customers involved in accidents.  Commissioner Christopher Graham has received a report into
the practice, which inflates claim costs and customer premiums,
from former Home Secretary Jack Straw, spokesman Greg Jones said
yesterday. The commissioner, who can impose fines of as much as
500,000 pounds ($800,000), will give his findings in due course,
he said.  When a driver has an accident that’s not their fault,
insurers frequently sell their details to personal injury
lawyers and claims-management firms, who then encourage the
victim to make a claim. That causes more frivolous and
fraudulent claims and higher legal costs, which are then paid by
the at-fault drivers’ insurers, according to the  Association of
British Insurers .  Higher costs have forced insurers to raise prices. Britons
now pay about 900 pounds a year for comprehensive cover, 40
percent more than the previous year, according to the  Automobile
Association Ltd. ’s Shoparound Index, which tracks the cheapest
quotes offered by insurers.  Even so, British insurers haven’t made an underwriting
profit from motor policies since 1996.  For more, click here.  U.S. 2011 Failed Banks FDIC Cost Rises to $3.83 Billion  Mountain Heritage Bank of Clayton, Georgia, was closed June
24 by the  Georgia Department of Banking and Finance , which
appointed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. as receiver.  The FDIC entered into a purchase and assumption agreement
with First American Bank and Trust Co. of Athens, Georgia, to
assume all of the deposits of Mountain Heritage Bank, according
to an e-mailed statement from the FDIC.  The closure of Mountain Heritage Bank brings the cost of
failed banks to the Deposit Insurance Fund since 1986 to $3.83
billion, according to data provided by the FDIC.  For a table listing banks that have failed since 1934 and
their costs in millions since 1986, click here.  Cross Shareholdings Fall to a Record Low in Japan, Nomura Says  Cross shareholdings between Japanese companies fell to a
record low at the end of March, according to  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604)   Stocks held by corporate allies fell to 11.1 percent of
total outstanding shares as of March 31, a 0.4 percentage point
decline from a year earlier, the brokerage said in a report
yesterday, based on a survey of 3,631 companies. Cross
shareholdings, which have declined two years running, fell to
the lowest level since Nomura started tracking the figure in
1991.  Cross shareholding occurs when shares of a listed company
are held by another listed company.  Companies are trimming their holdings after the
 International Accounting Standards Board  issued guidance in
December 2009 that the current market value of shareholdings
must be included in financial statements.  FSA Arrests One Over Unauthorized Collective-Investment Scheme  The U.K. Financial Services Authority, working with Dorset
Police, arrested a person suspected of involvement in an
unauthorized collective-investment scheme. The FSA also executed
search warrants on two premises in Poole, the agency said on its
website. No charges have been made and the investigation is
continuing.  SEC Clears  American Funds  of Paying Improper Sales Commissions  American Funds, the mutual-fund family run by Los Angeles-
based Capital Group Cos., was cleared by the Securities and
Exchange Commission on June 24 of paying improper commissions to
firms that sold its products.  The ruling by commissioners Kathleen Casey and Troy Paredes
overturned decisions by the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority in 2006 and 2008 that imposed and upheld a $5 million
fine against the company after a hearing. Commissioner Luis
Aguilar dissented, while Chairman  Mary Schapiro  and Commissioner
Elisse Walter didn’t participate, according to the Washington-
based agency’s ruling.  Chuck Freadhoff, a Capital Group spokesman, said yesterday
in an interview the company is “very pleased” and it was
“always unwilling to settle and pay a fine” because it did not
believe it did anything wrong.  Finra accused American Funds, the second-largest manager of
U.S. stock and bond funds, of directing more than $98 million in
brokerage trading commissions from 2001 to 2003 to broker-
dealers as a reward for their sales of the company’s mutual
funds, a practice known as directed brokerage. The SEC found
Finra’s 2004 “anti-reciprocal rule” that prohibited directed
brokerage was ambiguous. The commissioners also said Capital
Group had disclosed the practice and hadn’t harmed shareholders.  Finra amended the rule in 2006 to more explicitly prohibit
directed brokerage.  Nancy Condon , a Finra spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Ex-BNP, RBC Traders Face Stock Manipulation Charges, Yonhap Says  South Korean prosecutors charged four former employees of
 BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and two local brokerages
with manipulating prices of stocks linked to derivatives, Yonhap
News reported.  The traders intentionally sold stocks to push down prices
in order to avoid paying returns to investors who bought
derivatives products tied to the equities, the Korean-language
news agency said, citing the  Seoul Central District Prosecutors’
Office . Calls by Bloomberg to the prosecutors’ office were
unanswered.  BNP Paribas said in an e-mail that the company can’t
comment on any ongoing proceedings by South Korean authorities.
An e-mail sent to Katherine Gay, a spokeswoman for RBC, wasn’t
immediately answered outside of business hours.  The two other traders worked for South Korean brokerages
Mirae Asset Securities Co. and Daewoo Securities Co., the Yonhap
report said. Spokespeople at Daewoo Securities and Mirae Asset
declined to comment.  Courts  Violent Video Game Limits Rejected by U.S.  Supreme Court   The U.S. Supreme Court yesterday struck down a California
law prohibiting sales of violent video games to minors, saying
the ban is an unconstitutional infringement on speech rights.  Greg Stohr reported about the decision on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness with Margaret Brennan.”  For the video, click here.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Gleeson Says Banks Set to Shrink After Basel Rule Change  Simon Gleeson , a financial regulation lawyer at Clifford
Chance LLP, talked about the potential impact of changes in
capital requirements for banks under the Basel III rules.  Gleeson spoke with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg
Television’s “Last Word.”  For the video, click here.  Brown Says Basel Rules to Affect Growth of Largest Banks  Thomas Brown, chief executive officer of  Second Curve
Capital LLC  and a Bloomberg contributing editor, talked about an
agreement by regulators in Basel, Switzerland, that as many as
30 of the world’s largest, or systemically important, banks
should hold as much as 9.5 percent in capital reserves.  Brown, who spoke with Betty Liu, Dominic Chu and Jon
Erlichman on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop,” also
discussed investment strategy.  For the video, click here.  Bank Assets Key to Gauging Financial Health, RBA’s Debelle Says  Bank asset quality is more important than access to funding
when assessing a lender’s financial strength, said  Reserve Bank 
of Australia Assistant Governor  Guy Debelle .  Proposed changes by Standard & Poor’s to the way it rates
lenders worldwide are evidence of a heavy emphasis on funding in
the wake of the global credit crisis which followed the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008, Debelle said
in prepared remarks to a banking conference in Sydney yesterday.
His speech didn’t discuss monetary policy.  “The pendulum has swung too far in focusing on
liabilities,” Debelle said. “Asset quality should still be
paramount and should be given a far larger weight than
liabilities in assessing financial strength.”  Moody’s Investors Service last month cited banks’ reliance
on funding themselves through bond markets for downgrading
Australia’s four biggest lenders by one level to Aa2. Global
regulators led by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
want to prevent a repeat of the credit freeze by setting higher
capital requirements and a minimum amount of stable funds that
banks will have to use to finance different types of lending.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Sweden’s Ingves to Head  Central Bank  a Second Six-Year Term  Sweden’s central bank said Stefan Ingves will continue as
governor for a second six-year term after helping to guide the
largest Nordic nation out of the financial crisis to become one
of Europe’s strongest economies.  The  Bank for International Settlement  said on June 25
Ingves will also succeed European Central Bank Governing Council
member Nout Wellink as the new chairman of the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision. The Riksbank governor, who was a key
architect of rebuilding his country’s banking industry after its
1990s meltdown, has said he targets some of the world’s toughest
regulatory controls in Sweden. Wellink will step down as the
Dutch central bank governor on July 1.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 