-- 
U.S. Civil War Found Britons Fighting, Changing Uniforms: Books

-- B y   J o e   M y s a k
-- 
2011-06-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/u-s-civil-war-found-britons-plotting-fighting-changing-uniforms-books.html
Consider Sir Percy Wyndham, a
29-year-old Englishman commanding the First New Jersey
Cavalry during the American Civil War.  He possessed a noteworthy moustache and beard and
liked to change uniforms. Trained his men to use the saber,
much to the consternation of the Confederate Army.
Discharged after it was rumored he was plotting to
surrender his regiment to the enemy for $300,000. Started a
riding academy for cavalry officers in  New York , which
failed. Went to  Italy  and became a member of Garibaldi’s
staff for several years.  “Ever the roving adventurer, he moved to  Asia  and
started a humorous journal in  India  ... and a logging
business in Mandalay,  Burma . He was killed in Mandalay at
the age of 49 in 1879 while demonstrating a hot-air balloon
of his own design, which exploded in mid-air.’’  Welcome to  Amanda Foreman ’s “ A World on Fire:
Britain’s Crucial Role in the American Civil War ,’’ a fine
fat book published in time for the 150th anniversary of the
start of the war.  Sir Percy was one of an estimated 50,000 Britons who
played a role in the conflict, very few of whom, it seems,
could stop writing about it, in letters, diaries, newspaper
articles, books and memoirs. There was a British eyewitness
to just about everything.  Tour de Force  “A World on Fire’’ tells their stories, and the
stories of the politicians and diplomats on both sides of
the Atlantic who maneuvered either to drag the British into
the war or keep them out of it. It is a tour de force, a
work of extreme virtuosity both in the research and the
telling.  Remember the part of “ Gone With the Wind ’’ where the
camera pans over the wounded preparing to be evacuated from
Atlanta? The scene fills the screen and goes on and on and
on. So it is with this book, an astonishing and compelling
958 pages, which begins with a 196-member “Dramatis
Personae,’’ usually the kind of thing that screams “Don’t
read me,” but not here.  Foreman, author of the 1998 “ Georgiana: Duchess of
Devonshire ,’’ a very good, scholarly biography later made
into a somewhat silly vehicle for  Keira Knightley , says her
inspiration was theatrical, once she decided to construct a
narrative featuring “competing points of view within a time
frame that encompassed multiple simultaneous events.”  ‘Nicholas Nickleby’  “The challenge seemed insurmountable,’’ Foreman
writes in the preface, “until one day I remembered having
seen Trevor Nunn’s 1980 ‘Nicholas Nickleby,’ an
extraordinary ‘theater-in-the-round’ production that
brought together a vast panoply of characters through a
combination of three-dimensional staging, shifting scenes
and running narratives that created an all-enveloping
experience for the audience. This memory became my guide
and inspiration.”  This sounds messy, and it is. But it works. And so we
have Colonel Sir Percy. And Richard Bickerton Pemell Lyons,
2nd Lord Lyons, Minister at the British legation in
 Washington , whose soft words turned aside much wrath. And
his opposite number, Charles Francis Adams, the fretful
U.S. minister in  London .  Comic Relief  The appearance of Benjamin Moran, Adams’s resentful,
seething, below-stairs assistant secretary, always signals
comic relief. Francis Lawley, who wrote dishonest, pro-
Southern dispatches for the Times of London, drove Yankees
mad. Frank Vizetelly was an artist for the Illustrated
London News; his works, many of which are reproduced here,
will be familiar to Civil War buffs.  The pages of “A World on Fire’’ are stuffed with
their stories, and more -- and what doesn’t fit on the page
is worked into footnotes and 103 pages of endnotes, also
not to be missed because they go well beyond simple source
references.  If there is a problem with Foreman’s approach, it is
that it sacrifices depth for breadth. I didn’t feel like I
really knew any of these people, especially the ones who
sided with the slave-holding South. But I was very happy to
have made all of their acquaintance.  “A World on Fire’’ is published by  Random House  in
the U.S. and  Allen Lane  in the U.K. (958 pages, $35, 30
pounds). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Joe Mysak  is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Joe Mysak in New York at 
 jmysakjr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 