-- 
U.S. Lawmakers Say Americans in Gaza Flotilla May Be Prosecuted

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-06-28T15:20:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/u-s-lawmakers-say-americans-in-gaza-flotilla-may-be-prosecuted.html
Two members of Congress said U.S.
citizens who join a flotilla planning to break Israel’s embargo
of the  Gaza Strip  should face prosecution.  “Israel’s blockade of terrorist territory is absolutely
legal,” Congressman Gary Ackerman said during a visit to
 Jerusalem  today with a fellow Democratic representative from  New
York , Nita Lowey. “And the people who would run an
international legal blockade are subject to the legal
ramifications of all countries, including the  United States .”  Ten ships sailing from European ports this week are
expected to reach the waters off Gaza in the coming days. Israel
said it will not allow the vessels to reach the Hamas-controlled
Palestinian enclave. The State Department has warned that
Americans who join the fleet may be breaking U.S. law.  A previous attempt to reach Gaza by sea ended in violence
on May 31 last year when Israeli naval commandos dropped from
helicopters onto the deck of the Mavi Marmara, part of a six-
boat convoy, and opened fire after the ship refused to stop.
 Israel  says people on board shot first and attacked with iron
bars, an allegation they denied. Nine Turks were killed.  Americans taking part in the flotilla may “violate U.S.
civil and criminal statues” against “conspiring to deliver
material support” to terrorist organizations, the State
Department said last week. Hamas is classified as a terrorist
organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European Union.  Israeli Blockade  “It’s very clear to us is that what is illegal under
international law, and immoral as well, is the Israeli blockade
of Gaza,” said Akram Bader, Jerusalem-based spokesman for
US2Gaza, a group trying to bring about 30 Americans with the
flotilla. They include novelist Alice Walker, author of “The
Color Purple,” Bader said in a phone interview.  While Israel will aim for minimal friction with flotilla
participants, it is concerned that organizers are bringing on
board chemicals they intend to use to attack soldiers, said an
Israeli official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Among
the passengers may be Hamas members and others who mean Israelis
harm, he said.  “The flotilla participants have been very clear that they
are non-violent activists, and all the boats will be searched at
their points of departure to make sure that their cargo consists
only of humanitarian aid,” spokesman Bader said.  Israel says it needs the blockade to prevent arms smuggling
to Hamas, which seized control of Gaza in 2007 after winning
parliamentary elections the previous year, ending a unity
government with Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomerg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 