-- 
Spreadtrum Says Muddy Waters Questions Over Its Accounting Are Groundless

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-29T07:58:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/muddy-waters-is-shorting-china-s-spreadtrum.html
Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) , the
Chinese chip designer questioned by short-seller Muddy Waters
LLC over its accounting, said a report suggesting it misstated
financial results is groundless.  “Our performance is very solid,” Leo Li, the chief
executive officer, chairman and president of the Shanghai-based
company, said in an interview in his office today. “The
allegations, none of them are true.”  Spreadtrum tumbled as much as 34 percent yesterday after
Carson Block’s firm wrote it saw a “high risk of material
misstatements.” Chinese companies trading in  North America 
including  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  have had almost $5 billion in market
value erased since Muddy Waters published reports questioning
their accounting, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If companies are the target for Muddy Waters, their
shares will drop eventually,” said  Castor Pang , head of
research at Core-Pacific Yamaichi International Ltd. in Hong
Kong. “It’s difficult to tell whether the research is
trustworthy or not, but it triggers concerns over enterprises in
 China . Investor confidence is weak.”  Spreadtrum shares pared declines, closing down 3.5 percent
in  New York  trading yesterday, after Needham Group Inc. and
Chardan Capital Markets said the Muddy Waters assertions were
overblown. The Chinese company was taken public in a June 2007
initial offering led by  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , with help from Needham and  Piper Jaffray Cos. (PJC) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Wrong Company’  “We believe this organization is trying to target China
companies with questionable accounting practices,” Shannon Gao,
chief financial officer at Spreadtrum, said in a separate
interview, referring to Muddy Waters. “In this case, they
picked the wrong company. We do not fit their profile.”  Spreadtrum isn’t the only Chinese company having to defend
its financial statements this month. Sino-Forest on June 3
denied overstating assets after a Muddy Waters report said city
records didn’t match the amount of land the Hong Kong-based
timber company said it owned in China’s Yunnan province.  China Yurun Food Group Ltd. (1068)  tumbled 20 percent June 27 on
speculation Muddy Waters would issue a negative report on the
pork producer. Titus Wu, an analyst at DBS Vickers Hong Kong
Ltd., said this week Yurun Chairman Zhu Yicai told investors the
stock fell because of “ hedge funds  and market rumors.” Yurun
climbed as much as 9.4 percent in Hong Kong today.  Former Victim  Orient Paper Inc. (ONP)  Chairman Liu Zhenyong, whose company was
labeled a fraud by Muddy Waters last year, said this month
overseas-listed Chinese companies should conduct investigations
by independent third parties to counter questions about their
financial statements. A four-month probe found no evidence to
support the short-seller’s claims, according to Orient.  Quinn Bolton, an analyst at Needham, wrote in a report
yesterday in New York that the  Muddy Waters  letter raised
“nothing new.” Bolton reiterated a “buy” recommendation and
$30 stock-price estimate on Spreadtrum.  Short selling, or the sale of borrowed stock to profit from
a decline, rose to a record 14 percent of Spreadtrum’s
outstanding shares as of June 24, up from 6.7 percent at the
beginning of the month and 1.5 percent at the end of 2010,
according to  Data Explorers , a New York-based research firm.  Letter to Chairman  “We have identified a number of issues in Spreadtrum’s
filings, and we believe that there is a high risk of material
misstatements in the reported financials,” Muddy Waters said in
a letter addressed toLi.  Part of the Muddy Waters report focused on the departure of
Ping Wu as chief executive officer in February 2009 and the
resignation of Richard Wei as chief financial officer in April
2009 a month before the disclosure that a unit received about
$44 million in new financing from a Chinese bank. In October
that year, Spreadtrum said David S. Wu, another chief financial
officer, resigned for personal reasons.  The company’s revenue in the third quarter of 2009 was
$38.4 million, up 92 percent from a year earlier and 137 percent
from the second quarter, according to a PR Newswire statement on
Nov. 16, 2009.  “Why would the board have lost confidence in Mr. Wu when
the sales pipeline was so promising?” Muddy Waters  wrote .
“Because it would be unusual to fire a CFO during the financing
process, is it fair to assume he chose to leave? If ‘yes,’ why
would he have left with such strong sales in the pipeline?”  ‘Ancient History’  In a form 6-K filed with the SEC on Nov. 3, 2009, the
company said it replaced Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd. with
PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian CPAs Ltd. as the independent
auditor.  Needham’s Quinn said that the management changes were
related to a board plan from the beginning of 2009 to “get the
company back on a solid footing with customers” following the
hiring of CEO Li in May 2008. The changes are “ancient
history,” the analyst wrote.  At the end of 2008 and early 2009, the company ’’almost had
no customers,’’ no sales pipeline and a $20 million loss, Li
said. He turned around the company by developing new products
after becoming president in November 2008, he said.  Analysts Say ‘Buy’  Li, promoted following Wu’s departure, “was responsible
for an increased focus on product quality, software stability
and customer support at SPRD, issues that plagued the company’s
products in 2007 and 2008,” New York-based Quinn said. “This
focus on product/software quality and customer support is
directly responsible for the company’s significant market share
gains made over the past two years.”  Spreadtrum has “buy” recommendations from 12 of the 13
brokerages tracked by Bloomberg News. Among them is Jay Srivatsa, an analyst with Chardan Capital Markets LLC with a $31
price estimate, who said in an e-mail there is “little to no
merit” to the Muddy Waters report.  “Some of the allegations, especially those about why the
company had a great 2010, or the history about the ex-CFO, and
ex-chairman, to me, they don’t have a lot of legs,” said Jack
Lu, who rates Spreadtrum’s stock “buy” at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in Taipei. “I don’t think they understand
the company too well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  