-- 
UEM Land Shares Rise to 11-Week High on Singapore Projects

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-06-28T03:20:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/uem-land-shares-rise-to-11-week-high-on-singapore-projects-1-.html
UEM Land Holdings Bhd. (ULHB)  rose to an
11-week high in Kuala Lumpur stock trading after Khazanah
Nasional Bhd. and Temasek Holdings Pte appointed the Malaysian
developer to help oversee S$11 billion ($8.9 billion) of
 Singapore  property projects.  The stock rose 2.1 percent to 2.88 ringgit at 11:06 a.m.
local time, set for its highest close since April 8. RHB
Research Institute Sdn. upgraded UEM Land to “trading buy”
from “market perform” with a 3.35 ringgit share estimate,
analyst Loong Kok Wen wrote in a report today.  Khazanah and Temasek,  Malaysia  and Singapore’s sovereign
investment companies, will jointly develop hotels, apartments,
offices and shops in the city-state, according to a joint
statement yesterday. UEM Land, a Kuala Lumpur-based company
controlled by Khazanah, will construct parts of the projects
along with Temasek units  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL)  and Mapletree
Investments Pte, they said.  UEM Land is a “blue-chip proxy for improved Malaysia-
Singapore relations,” Amir Hamzah, a Kuala Lumpur-based analyst
at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a report today. “This is
one of the catalysts the market was waiting for.” He has an
“outperform” rating on UEM Land with a share estimate of 3.80
ringgit.  The property ventures come after Malaysia agreed to move
its railway station in Singapore’s central business district to
a site close to a bridge connecting the two countries, ending a
decades-old dispute over land usage. The two nations, united
between 1963 and 1965, had argued over issues including a new
bridge linking the two nations and the price Singapore pays for
water from Malaysia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  