-- 
Uganda’s Shilling Weakens to 18-Year Low Amid Importer Demand

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-06-28T14:31:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/ugandan-shilling-falls-to-18-year-low-amid-oil-importer-demand-for-dollars.html
Uganda ’s shilling fell to an 18-year
low against the dollar on increased demand for the U.S. currency
from oil importers following speculation by traders that the
domestic unit would weaken.  The shilling depreciated as much as 2.6 percent to 2,591.50
per dollar, the lowest since June 1993, where it was trading at
5:27 p.m. in Kampala, the capital. It closed at 2,525 yesterday.  “There is high demand for dollars in the market, especially
from the energy sector,” Benon Okwenje, a currency trader at
 Stanbic Bank Uganda Ltd. (SBU)  in Kampala, said in a phone interview.
“Traders had taken a view the shilling was going to weaken.”  The Bank of Uganda has sold dollars at least twice in the
past 10 trading days to stabilize the shilling, which is
 Africa ’s worst-performing currency so far this year, according
to Bloomberg data. The shilling has weakened as inflation in the
East African country surged to a 17-year high of 16 percent in
May amid higher food and fuel prices.  Governor Emmanuel Tumusiime-Mutebile said on June 16 the
central bank “shall not hesitate to enter the market to stem
speculation” in the domestic  currency market . The central bank’s
foreign reserves currently stand at 5.62 trillion shilling
($2.17 billion), according to the bank’s website.  The Bank of Uganda hasn’t sold foreign currency in the
market today, Okwenje said.  “In recent weeks, we have seen heavy demand for the
dollar,” he said. “In the last few months, we have seen low
dollar inflows from exports and donors among other things.”  Earlier today, the bank denied a rumour that Tumusiime-
Mutebile had resigned, without saying what the source of the
speculation was. “The governor was reappointed by the president
in January 2011 to serve a five-year term which he intends to
serve in full,” the bank said in an e-mailed statement.  Uganda is scheduled to become an oil producer next year
when  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  is expected to start pumping crude and gas
from the Lake Albert Basin. The country has an estimated 2.5
billion barrels of oil, with about 1 billion barrels in proven
reserves, according to Tullow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 