-- 
Uranium Spot Prices Decline in Wake of Japan Crisis, Ux Says

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-06-28T02:04:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/uranium-spot-prices-decline-in-wake-of-japan-crisis-ux-says.html
Uranium spot prices fell 0.5 percent
as demand remained weak amid  Japan ’s nuclear crisis,  Ux
Consulting Co.  said.  Uranium-oxide concentrate for immediate delivery was at
$54.25 a pound in the seven days through June 27, Ux said in an
e-mailed report today. That’s based on the most competitive
offer tracked by the Roswell, Georgia-based company.  The spot price for the nuclear fuel, which has declined 18
percent since the week before a March 11 earthquake and tsunami
damaged Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi power
station, has fallen by $3.25 this month. The nuclear accident,
the worst since Chernobyl in 1986, has seen Tokyo Electric
attempt to bring damaged reactors under control using outside
pumps, after cooling systems were knocked out.  “Buyers see no urgency to buy, as reflected by bids for
delivery at the end of this year up only marginally from current
levels,” Ux said. “The market is dominated by the aftershocks
of Fukushima, specifically the reduction in demand spawned by
that accident.”  Nuclear-power utilities buy the bulk of their uranium for
processing into fuel from mining companies, with the contracts
mostly extending beyond 12 months. The market for immediate
delivery, or  spot market , allows trading for delivery within a
year and includes financial investors. The U.S. government also
periodically conducts auctions to reduce stocks.  Germany, which relies on atomic energy for 23 percent of
its supplies, may phase out plants as early as 2022, Georg
Nuesslein, a lawmaker for Bavaria’s Christian Social Union
party, said in May.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  ordered a halt to
the country’s seven oldest reactors in the wake of the Fukushima
crisis, removing more than 25 percent of its 20,700 megawatts of
capacity, equivalent to the power needed to supply almost 21
million U.S. households.  “There is little reason to expect that the price will
increase anytime soon,” Ux said. “The forward price curve is
relatively flat, with bids out in the future a little higher
than those for more immediate delivery. Buyers are waiting for
news out of Japan and  Germany  to see what may happen to any
excess inventories associated with the nuclear programs in those
countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 