-- 
Turkish Lira Falls for 7th Day as Opposition Boycotts Parliament

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-06-28T15:54:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/turkish-lira-bonds-decline-as-main-opposition-says-to-boycott-parliament.html
The lira weakened for a seventh day
after members of the main opposition party refused to take their
oaths in parliament to protest a ruling that bars two of their
colleagues from joining the assembly in Ankara.  The currency depreciated as much as 0.6 percent to 1.6472
per dollar in its longest losing streak since November. It pared
the loss to 0.3 percent, trading at 1.6415 as of 6:17 p.m. in
Istanbul, on speculation the stalemate would be broken. The
yield on benchmark two-year bonds rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 9.18 percent, according to the TEB Local
Benchmark Bond Index.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said he would evaluate
and discuss any opposition proposals for changes to the penal
code. Erdogan made the comment to reporters in Ankara after the
main opposition  Republican People’s Party , or CHP, said it
intends to put forward amendments to the legislation in a bid to
allow two of its members who are in jail to join the assembly.  “First reaction of the market was negative because of the
rising political uncertainty,”  Ozgur Altug , chief economist at
BGC Partners in Istanbul, wrote in a note to clients. “However,
there are some signs that CHP,” the Nationalist Action Party,
or MHP, and the ruling  Justice and Development Party  “could
take some steps to solve the problem,” he wrote.  All but one of the 135 members of the Republican  People’s
Party ’s bloc is refusing to take oaths of office in protest at a
court’s refusal to release from jail two party members who were
elected in a June 12 general election. Earlier, 35 independent
deputies backed by the pro-Kurdish Peace and Democracy Party, or
BDP, said they would boycott the 550-seat parliament.  Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s Justice and
Development Party secured a third term with 50 percent of the
vote in the June 12 elections.  “We have been saying that there will be political
stability in  Turkey  but now suspicions have emerged about
this,” Tufan Comert, a strategist at Garanti Securities, said
in e-mailed comments.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  added 1.4 percent to 62,819.08,
closing at its highest in two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  