-- 
Ushdev May Seek India Wind Farm Acquisitions to Boost Capacity

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-28T03:47:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/ushdev-may-seek-india-wind-farm-acquisitions-to-boost-capacity.html
The clean-energy unit of  Ushdev
International Ltd. (UTF) ,  India ’s third-largest non-state metal
trader, may seek to acquire wind farms to boost its capacity 10-
fold by 2014.  Ushdev Power Holdings Pvt. plans to invest 18 billion
rupees ($400 million) to add 100 megawatts of wind energy
capacity annually over the next three years, Arvind Prasad,
managing director of the unit, said in an interview in Mumbai.  By 2018, Ushdev Power may seek to build as much as 1,000
megawatts of renewable energy capacity, roughly equivalent to
one nuclear plant, which could also include solar, hydropower
and biomass plants, he said.  “We’re open to both greenfield projects and also looking
at existing wind farms,” Prasad said.  India’s fragmented wind sector may undergo some
consolidation as companies look to build scale, Adam Forsyth, a
partner at London-based investment bank Matrix Group Ltd., said
on June 1.  Indian Energy Ltd. (IEL) , a London-listed operator of wind
farms backed by  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , said on June 1 it
would sell its projects in the South Asian nation if talks with
a potential investor fell through.  Mumbai-based Ushdev Power currently owns 30.5 megawatts of
wind farms in six different states that use turbines made by
Denmark’s Vestas Wind Systems A/S, as well as  Germany ’s Enercon
GmbH and Kenersys GmbH, Prasad said.  The parent company is India’s largest, private trader of
metals by revenue after Surana Corp. and Adani Enterprises Ltd.,
according to data from Capital Market magazine. It incorporated
its wind unit last year, Prasad said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net .
UTF IN <Equity> 