-- 
Usiminas CFO Seckelmann Says Rival CSN Is Continuing to Buy its Shares

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 
2011-06-28T20:30:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/usiminas-cfo-seckelmann-says-rival-csn-continues-to-build-stake-in-company.html
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA (USIM3)  Chief Financial Officer Ronald Seckelmann said rival
steelmaker Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA continues to buy its
stock after reaching a 10 percent stake. The shares gained.  “They continue buying slowly,” Seckelmann said today in
an interview in  London , where he was meeting investors. “They
have slightly more than 10 percent of the ordinary shares.
They’ve bought a few preferred shares in the past month too.”  CSN, based in Sao Paulo, has been buying shares of its
bigger rival since at least January and attained a 10.01 percent
stake on April 20, according to a regulatory filing. In January,
CSN said it may increase its stake in Usiminas to a level that
could alter the rival’s management or control structure.  Usiminas’s common shares rose as much as 1.6 reais, or 7.1
percent, to 24 reais after Seckelmann’s comments and closed at
23.88 reais. The preferred stock rose 1.5 percent to 13.18
reais. CSN rose 1.5 percent to 18.88 reais.  CSN bought both types of  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-based
Usiminas’s stock in the past month and hasn’t yet reached 11
percent of its common shares, according to Seckelmann.  A CSN official in Sao Paulo, who declined to be named
citing corporate policy, said the company wouldn’t comment.  Keep Stakes  Usiminas Chief Executive Officer Wilson Brumer said May 31
the company’s controlling shareholders don’t plan to sell their
stakes and will keep their current position for “many years.”
Nippon Steel Corp., Votorantim Participacoes SA and Camargo
Correa SA together hold about 54 percent of Usiminas’s voting
stock, according to the company’s  website .  Gerdau SA,  Brazil ’s largest steelmaker, raised as much as
5.5 billion reais ($3.49 billion) in April, stoking speculation
in news reports and by investors that it may buy part of
Usiminas.  Buying a stake “would be strategically sensible,”
Leonardo Correa and Renato Antunes, analysts at  Barclays Capital 
in  Sao Paulo , said in a March 21 note to clients.  Seckelmann said today any report of a potential takeover of
the company are “rumors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net 
Laura Price in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  