-- 
Vestas Won’t Be First in Offshore Wind This Year, Engel Says

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-06-28T16:36:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/vestas-won-t-be-first-in-offshore-wind-this-year-ceo-engel-says.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S won’t be
first in the offshore wind market this year after capturing
almost 60 percent of European installations in 2010, Chief
Executive Officer Ditlev Engel said.  “We will not hand any projects over this year.” Engel
said today in a London interview. When you calculate market
share, it is when you hand over projects to the clients, “when
they are installed and up and running,” he said.  The Randers, Denmark-based company, the world’s largest
wind-turbine maker, unveiled its next-generation offshore wind
turbine on March 30, a 7-megawatt machine capable of powering
6,500 homes, to vie with  Siemens AG (SIE)  of  Germany  for the biggest
share of the offshore wind market.  Vestas installed 645 megawatts and Siemens 381 megawatts
out of a total European market of 1,087 megawatts last year,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Installations in
 Europe  accounted for 90 percent of the global total. The London-
based analyst projects Siemens will install 566 megawatts out of
a European total of 916 megawatts this year, with Bard Holding
GmbH and  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ’s RePower unit the rest.  Planned U.K. laws on energy pricing and incentives will be
the key to securing demand for the new turbines and the eventual
construction of a factory in southeast  England , Engel said. The
U.K. last year awarded a third round of offshore wind licenses,
paving the way for up to 32 gigawatts of projects to be built.
Engel said they aren’t expected to start until 2015.  “It’s up to each of those who have won the right to
develop the projects to take it forward and commit,” Engel
said. “They’re not going to commit until they know what the
price regime is going to look like.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  