-- 
Wheat Futures Surge Most in Almost Six Weeks as Rains Threaten U.S. Crops

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-06-28T19:36:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/wheat-futures-surge-most-in-almost-six-weeks-as-rains-threaten-u-s-crops.html
Wheat futures surged the most in
almost six weeks on concern that crops in the northern U.S.
Great Plains are deteriorating after excessive rainfall delayed
planting and sapped nutrients from the soil.  About 69 percent of spring-wheat crops were in good or
excellent  condition  as of June 26, down from 72 percent a week
earlier, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said yesterday.
Parts of  North Dakota  and  Montana , the biggest domestic growers
of the variety, have had triple the normal amount of  rain  in the
past two months, National Weather Service data show.  “The crop-condition ratings gave us enough of a bullish
reason to stop the bleeding,” after futures fell in the past
four weeks, said Louise Gartner, the owner of Spectrum
Commodities in Beavercreek,  Ohio . “From what I’m hearing from
farmers, there’s a lot of ponding going on because it’s so wet,
and a lot of fertilizer has been leached out of the soil.”  Wheat futures for September delivery rose 21 cents, or 3.2
percent, to settle at $6.7175 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade, the biggest gain for a most-active
contract since May 18. The gain was the first in five sessions.
Prices are down 14 percent this month on concern that commodity
demand will shrink as  Greece ’s debt crisis threatens to slow
global economic growth.  The drop in wheat prices may spur demand from livestock
producers contending with high costs of corn for feed, Gartner
said. July-delivery wheat was 42.75 cents cheaper than July corn
today on the CBOT. Demand also may increase for milling-grade
wheat in the southern and central Plains, as excess moisture in
the north threatens to erode crop quality, Gartner said.  “There’s great demand for wheat for the feed channels, and
high-quality milling wheat,” Gartner said. “The high-protein
wheat coming out of  Kansas  should be meeting up with a lot of
demand.”  Wheat is the fourth-largest U.S. crop, valued at $13
billion in 2010, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in New York at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  