-- 
Twitter Co-Founders Williams, Stone Switch Focus to New Venture

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-06-28T22:09:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/twitter-co-founders-williams-stone-switch-focus-to-new-venture.html
Twitter Inc. co-founders Biz Stone
and  Evan Williams  said they are taking a further step back from
the microblogging service and devoting their time to a company
aimed at incubating new ideas.  The Obvious Corp. will be focused on “solving big
problems” and helping develop systems that “improve the
world,” according to  Stone’s blog . The company will also be run
by Jason Goldman, a former Twitter executive, Stone said.  After founding Twitter in 2007, Williams gave up the chief
executive officer role to former  Google Inc. (GOOG)  product manager
Dick Costolo in 2010. Costolo and co-founder Jack Dorsey, also
CEO of payments startup Square Inc., have led efforts this year
to make the site more attractive to a broader audience by
building privacy features and tools to upload pictures.  “The Twitter crew and its leadership team have grown
incredibly productive,” Stone said on the blog. “I’ve decided
that the most effective use of my time is to get out of the way
until I’m called upon to be of some specific use.”  Obvious was first created by Williams to buy back a company
from investors that he and Stone failed to sell about six years
ago, Stone said. The two began working together after leaving
Google in 2005.  The assets from that failed company included Twitter --
which lets users publicly write 140-character messages to people
who follow them, Stone said. Williams and Stone, as well as
Dorsey, now Twitter chairman, continued building the company
within Obvious. In 2007, the group raised capital from outside
investors and launched the service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  