-- 
Women Are Antidote to China’s Old Boys’ Club: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-06-28T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/women-are-antidote-to-china-s-old-boys-club-william-pesek.html
It’s a man’s world. That’s
something, for better or worse, women in  Asia  can tell you.
Japan and  South Korea  underutilize women with little regard for
how it constrains growth. The  Philippines  sends all too many of
them abroad as domestics to ship money home and support an
inefficient economy. A preference for boys in  India  and
elsewhere leads to elective abortion of female fetuses.
Indonesia and  Malaysia  face creeping Islamization, which can
compel women to cover up and retreat from public life.  The consequences for China may be just as stark, not to
mention depressing.  More than 40 years ago,  Mao Zedong  proclaimed that “women
hold up half the sky.” Today, it’s more aspiration than fact.
Women are barely represented in the top echelons of  China ’s
government and the biggest state-owned companies. Boosting their
role would invigorate industry and buttress the legitimacy of
the  Communist Party , which this week celebrates its 90th
anniversary amid growing signs that economic growth may be at
risk.  Gender discrimination isn’t a big issue among investors.
The phenomenon doesn’t feed easily into stock valuations, bond
yields or gross domestic product figures. Yet the negative
implications are underappreciated, especially when you consider
how readily it can be fixed.  Female Empowerment  Development economists have long linked female empowerment
to faster economic growth, higher returns on investment,
increased productivity, improved agricultural yields and more
favorable demographics. For an industrializing nation to neglect
women is akin to fighting with one limb tied behind your back.
That’s unwise as China faces rising inflation and a widening
rich-poor divide that could fan social upheaval and anti-regime
sentiment.  The international scene is fraught with perils that require
China to put an even higher premium on strategies for growth.
The  U.S. economy  looks like its recovery is stalling.  Europe  may
be even more fragile as China finds itself supporting euro-zone
markets by using its deep pockets to buy sovereign debt there.  From the perspective of developed nations, little attention
is paid to China’s gender issues. Instead, we see China’s 10
percent growth; a central government with remarkable discipline;
$3 trillion of currency reserves; crane-bristling mega-cities;
armies of bankers and executives working with single-minded
purpose; scientists who develop supercomputers that rank among
the world’s fastest; and legions of engineers capable of
rerouting giant rivers like the Yangtze. We rarely consider the
structural flaws.  Bureaucratic Tradition  In all of this, women are almost invisible. Blame it partly
on a bureaucratic tradition in business and government that
isn’t flexible enough to accommodate women who want to take time
off to have a family. A job in Chinese government can mean a
life of liquor-fueled official banquets where professional
relationships are forged.  Only two women have been appointed governor of any of
China’s 31 provinces and four biggest municipalities since the
founding of the People’s Republic in 1949; none are now serving.
In the U.S., by contrast, 32 women have been elected governors
of the 50 states in that time. Six members of U.S. President
 Barack Obama ’s 21-person Cabinet (as well as posts with Cabinet
rank) are female, including Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton ,
a vocal champion of  women’s rights . In  France , five of 15 full
ministers are women. In China, Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s 35-member
state council has four women.  Factory Floor  The lack of female progress in the public sector belies
successes in the private realm. Six of the world’s 19 self-made
women billionaires as of last year were Chinese.  Matching that record in the public sector would serve
 China’s economy  well as the country tries to transform itself
from the world’s factory floor into a leader in services and
technology. By failing to harness the full potential of half of
the talent pool, China surely is limiting its growth
possibilities.  China faces demographic challenges, too. Sex-ratio
imbalances are a growing problem because sons are often
preferred over daughters. By 2020, 30 million or more Chinese
men of marrying age might be unable to find a mate. Sociologists
call it China’s “testosterone glut.” What kinds of social
stresses this will create are hard to predict.  Institutionalized Sexism  Japan  shows the failings of institutionalized sexism. Last
week, the government gender-equality bureau recommended
 mandatory quotas  to pull more women into public office. Yet the
aging men who hold the reins of Japan Inc. would rather lose
more ground than let more women into executive suites and
parliamentary discussions.  China must go a different way if it wants to avoid the
stagnation that besets Japan. Making its politics and corporate
boardrooms less of an old boys’ club is crucial. China’s labor
force is aging, and a fresh infusion of talent could help
leaders plan for the future. It would create a more balanced,
lively and sustainable economic and political system for China’s
1.3 billion people.  Folks are free to debate whether it really is a man’s
world. What isn’t debatable is that gender discrimination is
more than just unfair. It’s bad economics.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 