-- 
Yemen’s Saleh to Make First Public Speech Since Injury Tomorrow, Aide Says

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-06-28T07:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/yemen-s-saleh-to-make-first-public-speech-since-injury-tomorrow-aide-says.html
Yemen ’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh
will speak tomorrow in his first public appearance since being
wounded in an attack on his presidential palace earlier this
month, a member of the country’s ruling party said.  Saleh will give a televised address, Yasser Al-Yamani told
Al-Arabiya television today. Abdul Karim al-Eryani, Saleh’s
political adviser, said yesterday that he visited the president
in  Saudi Arabia  and found him to be in good health, the state-
run Saba news agency reported.  The president is recuperating in Saudi Arabia after being
injured in a June 3 attack on his compound in the Yemeni
capital, Sana’a, leaving Vice President Abed Rabbo Mansur Hadi
in charge. Pro-democracy protesters have been calling for Saleh
to step down since January, leading to deadly clashes between
activists and security forces.  Saleh has ruled over Yemen for 32 years. His son heads the
country’s special forces, the Republican Guard. Violence has
escalated since late May after Saleh refused to sign an accord
with the opposition brokered by the Gulf Cooperation Council
requiring him to step down within 30 days and hand power over to
Hadi in exchange for immunity from prosecution.  Saleh’s government has said the rising social unrest
threatens to strengthen al-Qaeda, a concern also expressed by
the U.S. Yemeni forces killed about 20 suspected members of al-
Qaeda during clashes in the southern province of Abyan, Ahmed
Ghalib al-Rahwi, the provincial deputy governor, said in a
telephone interview June 21.  Speaking in his capacity as commander of the Republican
Guard, Ahmad Ali Abdullah Saleh said June 26 that the armed
forces are committed to implementing the directives of Vice
President Hadi, Saba reported. He added that the armed forces
will continue to respond to any “hostile” actions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 