-- 
Youku Begins Pay Service in China, Adds Warner Bros. Films

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-28T08:23:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/youku-com-begins-pay-service-in-china-adds-450-warner-bros-movies.html
Youku.com Inc. (YOKU) , the largest online
video site in China, said it partnered with Warner Bros. to
offer U.S. video-on-demand titles to Chinese  Internet users 
starting today.  The three-year agreement with the  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  unit
will provide as many as 450 films, including new releases and
classics, Youku Chief Executive Officer Victor Koo said in an
interview at the company’s headquarters in Beijing today.  The paid service paves the way for Youku, which began
trading in New York in December, to expand beyond advertising
for generating revenue as it seeks to turn profitable. For
Warner Bros., the deal builds on this month’s agreement to offer
its content through You On Demand Holdings Inc.’s on-demand
television viewers across  China .  “We believe we’re on a path to profitability as our
revenue is growing at triple digits and basically our cost
structure is increasing at a lower speed,” Koo said. “At some
point in time that will come together in a very nice way. We
don’t have a set time frame.”  Youku, which has reported losses since it started in
December 2006, may get 10 percent of sales from the pay service
within five years, Chief Financial Officer Dele Liu said in
today’s interview.  Premium Service  The Youku Premium service includes monthly subscriptions as
well as video-on-demand titles, Koo said. The company will
continue to offer free content as well. A trial version of the
pay service tested since October processed 200,000 transactions
for  Warner Bros . films including “Inception.”  Customers can pay Youku for videos using their mobile
phones or the Alipay online payment, Koo said.  Youku led China’s online video space, accounting for 22
percent of the market’s advertising revenue in the first
quarter, according to Beijing-based research firm Analysys
International. Tudou Holdings Ltd. had 16 percent, followed by
 Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) ’s 13 percent, according to Analysys.  China, the world’s largest Internet market with 477 million
users, censors content for politically sensitive topics and
pornography.  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube, the world’s most popular
video-sharing site, is blocked in China.  Youku is projected to narrow its loss to $19.2 million this
year from $30.2 million last year, according to the average of
six analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg, excluding some
items. Next year, the company is expected to report profit of
$242,000, according to Bloomberg estimates.  The company raised $233.3 million in its U.S. initial
public offering in December. The stock surged 161 percent on its
trading debut at  New York  Stock Exchange, the biggest gain for a
U.S. IPO since Baidu Inc. in 2005.  Youku shares have dropped 59 percent from their April 19
high of $67.27, to close at $27.34 yesterday. That’s still more
than double the IPO price of $12.80.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  