-- 
Zapatero to Propose Regional Budget Rules, Aid to Homeowners

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-06-28T16:51:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/zapatero-vows-to-protect-families-at-risk-of-losing-homes-1-.html
Spain ’s Socialist government will
propose spending rules for the regions next month in a bid to
shrink the euro area’s third-largest deficit, as well as
measures to help families who risk losing their mortgaged homes.  The government will put forward new regulations for the 17
semi-autonomous regions in July to help Spain achieve its “very
demanding” budget goals, Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said in the state-of-the nation debate in parliament in
 Madrid  today. It will also present changes to the central
government’s budget law in the “coming weeks,” he said.  Zapatero, facing calls from opposition parties to call
early elections that polls suggest his party will lose, is
seeking to convince investors he can prevent Spain from
following Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  into an international
bailout. Spanish regional governments and the real-estate
industry are key to reordering the country’s finances and
helping a still-weak economic recovery.  New measures will also be introduced to help homeowners
facing foreclosure, Zapatero said, without giving any details.
Amid calls in nationwide protests and from opposition lawmakers
for homeowners to be able to cancel their outstanding debts by
handing over their keys, Zapatero said the measures “will be
compatible with the imperatives of financial institutions’
solvency and legal security.”  Early Elections  Under Spanish law, the bank can claim the difference from
the borrower if a foreclosed property is sold for less than the
outstanding mortgage. Lenders can make a claim against all of a
borrower’s present and future assets and earnings.  Spanish banks had  315.8 billion euros  ($450 billion) in
real-estate-related loans in the last quarter of 2010, according
to the Bank of Spain. The number of foreclosed properties has
climbed 10-fold since the end of the housing boom, property
website  Idealista  estimates. Idealista advertises more than
30,000 foreclosed homes valued at 4.6 billion euros on behalf of
40 banks and savings banks, compared with 3,000 in June 2009.  The extra yield on Spanish 10-year debt compared with
benchmark German debt narrowed to 270 basis points today from
280 basis points yesterday, when the yield surged to the highest
since 2000 on increasing expectations of a Greek default.  ‘Risky’ Strategy  As popular opposition to spending cuts and legislative
overhauls mounts, Zapatero is facing calls for early elections
before the end of his minority government’s term in March 2012.
Catalan nationalist party CiU, whose 10 lawmakers are enough to
give Zapatero’s Socialists a majority, won’t support the 2012
budget, lawmaker Josep Duran I Lleida told parliament today.
Putting off elections until March next year is a “risky”
strategy, he said.  As lawmakers took part in the two-day debate in parliament,
protesters known as the “indignant ones” planned to gather in
the central Puerta del Sol square tomorrow for their own
version. Demonstrators camped out there for a month through mid-
June to protest against corruption, austerity measures and bank
bailouts.  Zapatero said on April 2 he won’t seek a third term and the
Socialists, who suffered their worst local-election defeats in
three decades last month, have chosen Deputy Prime Minister
Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba as their candidate to replace him. The
 People’s Party  led by Mariano Rajoy might win 45.9 percent of
the vote if general elections were held now, according to a poll
published by the newspaper El Mundo on June 5, compared with
32.1 percent for the Socialists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  