-- 
Spanish Budget Dissent Leaves Zapatero With Calls to Hold Early Election

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-06-29T14:35:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/zapatero-faces-calls-for-early-spanish-election-as-support-wanes.html
Spain ’s Catalan nationalist party
said it won’t support Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s budget, narrowing his minority government’s chances
of avoiding early elections that polls show it will lose.  The CiU party won’t back the 2012 package that goes to
Parliament in September, and delaying elections until March is
“risky,” Catalan lawmaker Josep Duran i Lleida told Parliament
in Madrid yesterday. Ana Maria Oramas, a lawmaker from the
Coalicion Canaria who supported the last budget, said yesterday
she understood Zapatero’s term will end in September and today
wished him well in his personal life after leaving office.  Zapatero, struggling to shield Spain from the contagion of
the Greek sovereign-debt crisis, won’t seek a third term after
his party’s worst local election defeat in three decades last
month. The Socialists are seven seats short of a majority and if
the budget fails, tradition calls for an election even, though
the government can revert to the previous year’s spending plan.  “By September, the markets may not allow them to roll over
the budget,” said Ken Dubin, a political-science professor at
Carlos III University in  Madrid  who also teaches at the IE
business school. “The results of the local elections definitely
increased the chances of early general elections.”  Zapatero’s Response  The dissent against Zapatero emerged during yesterday’s
state of the nation debate. Josu Erkoreka, a lawmaker for the
 Basque Nationalist Party  that has also been an ally of
Zapatero’s government, ended his speech in Parliament by wishing
Zapatero “all the best.”  Zapatero had repeatedly said he wants to complete the term.
He said yesterday that the “logical” aim of any government is
to serve a full four-year term, though he didn’t rule out an
early vote as the date depends on “dialogue” with other
parties.  Failure to get an austerity plan through Parliament in
March pushed the Socialist government of neighboring  Portugal  to
call early elections, prompting a surge in borrowing costs that
forced the outgoing government to seek a European bailout.  The extra yield on Spain’s 10-year bonds compared with
German equivalents narrowed 8 basis points to 262 basis points
today after  Greece ’s government secured enough votes to pass the
first part of an austerity plan needed to prevent a default.
Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond yield had risen this week to the
highest since 2000, swelling the burden on public finances.  Early Vote  Mariano Rajoy, the leader of Spain’s opposition  People’s
Party , also reiterated calls in the debate yesterday for an
early election, which polls show he would win after seven years
of Socialist rule. The PP would clinch 45.9 percent of the vote
if general elections were held now, according to a poll
published by the newspaper El Mundo on June 5, compared with
32.1 percent for the Socialists, who will be led into the
election by Deputy Prime Minister Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba.  Rosa Diez, a lawmaker for the UPD party, also called for
the election to be brought forward today. As the second-day of
the debate concluded, parties started drafting proposals that
will be voted on tomorrow.  As lawmakers spoke in Parliament, protesters known as the
“indignant ones” called their own version of the state of the
nation debate in central Madrid today. Demonstrators camped out
at the Puerta del Sol square for a month through mid-June to
protest against corruption, austerity measures, bank bailouts
and rules for mortgage-holders who risk losing their homes.  Policy Reversal  The Socialist premier, who boosted pensions and benefits
during the last years of Spain’s decade-long real-estate boom,
made a policy U-turn last year amid a surge in borrowing costs,
raising the  retirement age  and slashing public wages. He also
angered his traditional allies in the unions with reductions to
firing costs and a wage-bargaining law that aims to make it
easier for exporters to compete.  Zapatero’s party on May 22 was trounced in regional
elections and lost its traditional strongholds of Castilla-La
Mancha and Extremadura after 30 years of Socialist rule.  Zapatero, who says he wants to complete his term to be able
to steer the economy back to growth, used the debate to propose
new spending rules for the regional governments, as he said
there were “uncertainties” about their finances. Moody’s
Investors Service said yesterday that regions risk “downward
pressure” on their ratings if they don’t take “further steps”
to strengthen their fiscal position.  Home Foreclosures  He also announced measures to ease pressure on homeowners
facing foreclosures amid the highest  unemployment rate  in  Europe 
and said the government would study ways of preventing
“abuses” when foreclosed homes are auctioned.  Under Spanish law, if a foreclosed property is sold for
less than the outstanding mortgage, the bank can claim the
difference from the borrower against all present and future
assets and earnings. The government will increase the amount of
monthly income that is shielded from seizure by creditor banks
to 961 euros ($1,383) from 705 euros, Zapatero said.  Amid calls in nationwide protests and from opposition
lawmakers for homeowners to be able to cancel outstanding debts
by handing over their keys, Zapatero said the measures “will be
compatible with the imperatives of financial institutions’
solvency and legal security.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  