-- 
Zynga to File for Initial Stock Offering Today, GreenCrest Capital Says

-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-06-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-28/zynga-to-file-ipo-tomorrow-to-raise-as-much-as-1-billion-greencrest-says.html
Zynga Inc., the top developer of
games for Facebook Inc.’s site, will file paperwork for an
initial public offering today, said GreenCrest Capital
Management LLC, which cited a “major investor” in the startup.  The company has chosen Morgan Stanley to be the lead
underwriter of an offering that will raise more than $1 billion,
said Nitsan Hargil, an analyst at GreenCrest, which focuses on
closely held firms. He didn’t name the investor, saying only
that it was an early backer of Zynga.  Zynga, known for “FarmVille” and “Texas HoldEm Poker,”
is joining the biggest wave of Internet IPOs since the dot-com
heyday in 2000. LinkedIn Corp., Pandora Media Inc. and Yandex NV
all went public in the past two months, and other Internet
companies such as Groupon Inc. aim to benefit from the rebound
with their own IPOs.  “Of all the companies we’re looking at, it’s the one we’re
most excited about because it’s a real company with real
revenues,” Hargil said yesterday in an interview.  Dani Dudeck, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Zynga,
declined to comment, as did Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for New
York-based Morgan Stanley.  Zynga’s sales will reach about $1.5 billion this year,
generating $500 million of net income, Hargil estimates. The
company doesn’t need the money it will raise from selling
shares, the New York-based analyst said.  Most Valuable  The startup is  valued  at $15.4 billion on SharesPost Inc.,
an exchange that connects buyers and sellers of privately held
companies. That would make it the most valuable U.S. game
company, ahead of  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  and  Electronic Arts
Inc. (ERTS)  Zynga recently hired former Electronic Arts Chief Operating
Officer John Schappert for a senior role.  The company is backed by venture firms Foundry Group, Union
Square Ventures, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, Institutional
Venture Partners and Andreessen Horowitz. Russia’s Digital Sky
Technologies and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  are also stakeholders.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. will be another underwriter of the
IPO, Hargil said.  Andrea Rachman , a spokeswoman for  New York- 
based Goldman Sachs, declined to comment.  “It simply is a way to give the company access to cheap
capital and give the investors and employees who’ve invested
time and money into the company an ability to monetize that,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  