-- H&M Slides After Reporting Decline in October Same-Store Sales
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-11-15T08:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/h-m-slides-after-reporting-decline-in-october-same-store-sales.html
Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) ,  Europe ’s
second-largest clothing retailer, fell to the lowest since June
in Stockholm trading after October sales missed estimates.  The shares fell as much as 2.8 percent to 213.5 kronor and
were down 2.5 percent at 214.1 kronor at 9:11 a.m. They’ve slid
3.3 percent this year compared with a 5.7 percent increase for
 Sweden ’s benchmark stock index, the  OMX Stockholm 30 Index. (OMX)   Sales at stores open a year or more slid 5 percent last
month, H&M said today in a statement. Richard Edwards, an
analyst at Citigroup Inc. in London, had anticipated sales on
the same basis would be unchanged. Revenue at local currency
rates rose 4 percent compared with Edwards’ 10 percent estimate
and the 9.3 percent average estimate in an SME Direkt poll.  H&M had reported unchanged same-store sales in the quarter
through August and a 6 percent improvement in September. Third-
quarter profit missed estimates at the Stockholm-based company
as consumers increasingly turn to competitor  Inditex SA (ITX) , owner
of the Zara chain.  H&M, which opened its first store in Sweden in 1947, has
been slower to diversify than Inditex. Brands other than Zara
account for 62 percent of the Spanish company’s outlets and 35
percent of revenue. At H&M, by contrast, the four non-flagship
brands -- COS, Monki, Weekday and Cheap Monday -- represent
roughly 5 percent of total stores. Next spring, H&M will add a
sixth brand, & Other Stories, with about 10 outlets across
Europe selling pricier clothing, lingerie and accessories.  “We continue to believe it is suffering from maturity and
competition in its core markets and lower returns from its new
markets,” Gillian Hilditch, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
said in a note to clients today. The monthly report was “very
disappointing,” she wrote.  H&M said it will report fourth-quarter and November sales
on Dec. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  