-- 3i Boosting Debt Business Hires Cantor Fitzgerald’s Tessier
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-11-15T17:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/3i-hires-cantor-fitzgerald-s-tessier-amid-debt-unit-boost-1-.html
3i Group Plc (III)  is planning to more
than double its debt-management unit and hired Melissa Tessier
from  Cantor Fitzgerald  LP as Britain’s biggest publicly-traded
private-equity firm moves away from investing in buyout deals.  Tessier will focus on  investor relations  in  Europe  and
report to Andrew Bellis, a partner and managing director at 3i
Debt Management, according to an e-mailed statement from the
company. Tessier worked on European and U.S. structured credit
products at Cantor Fitzgerald.  3i is seeking to more than double its debt business to $25
billion through expanding in the U.S., high-yield bonds and
direct lending, Jeremy Ghose, chief executive officer of 3i Debt
Management, said in an interview at his London office.  “We will be looking for acquisitions of credit management
firms,” Ghose said. “One of the areas we will develop is high-
yield bonds, which offers a natural complement to our loans
business.”  3i announced plans in June to cut a third of its workforce,
reshape its private equity business and focus on infrastructure
and debt as new chief executive Simon Borrows came under
pressure to revive profit and return money to investors.  The debt management unit boosted its assets to as much as
$10.2 billion, it said in August, through a new venture with New
York-based WCAS Fraser Sullivan Investment Management LLC. Last
month it formed Jamestown CLO I Ltd., a U.S. collateralized loan
obligation of $461.2 million.  Headcount Reduction  New private-equity investments have shrunk in a “subdued”
market for mergers and acquisitions, 3i said today in an
earnings statement. The firm spent 138 million pounds ($219
million) on new investments compared with 448 million pounds in
the same period a year earlier, it said.  It reduced headcount by 104 employees and closed offices in
 Barcelona , Copenhagen,  Hong Kong , Milan and  Shanghai , according
to the statement.  3i will avoid mezzanine financing, distressed debt and real
estate, as well as asset-backed deals for the time being.  “I am not convinced there is room for growth for real
mezzanine financing, ” Ghose said. “It will become more
difficult to get buyout firms to see the merit of using
mezzanine debt now that required returns almost match that of
equity.”  3i fell 0.1 percent to 209.4 pence in London trading today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  