-- 3i Says Purchases, Asset Sales Slumped in ‘Subdued’ Markets
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-11-15T16:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/3i-says-purchases-asset-sales-slumped-in-subdued-markets-1-.html
3i Group Plc (III) , Britain’s oldest
private-equity firm, said the pace of new investments and asset
sales slumped by more than half in the six months through
September amid “subdued” markets for mergers and acquisitions.  The firm spent 138 million pounds ($219 million) compared
with 448 million pounds in the same period a year earlier,
London-based 3i said in a statement today. Asset sales, or so-
called realizations, fell to 268 million pounds from 532 million
pounds, the company said.  The mergers and acquisitions market has been very
“quiet,” Chief Executive Officer Simon Borrows told reporters
on a conference call today. The company has “stayed cautious”
about making new investments in  Europe , he added.  Borrows, who was named chief executive officer in May after
shareholders urged the company to stop making deals and instead
return money to investors, is cutting a third of 3i’s workforce
and closing offices in  Asia  to reduce annual costs by 45 million
pounds by April 2014. The firm said today it has suspended new
private equity investments in Asia and  Spain  and is “on track”
to meet its cost and debt-reduction targets.  “We have wasted no time in implementing the significant
organizational and cultural changes that are needed,” Borrows
said. “There is much more to do and we will continue to work
hard to drive improved performance across our business.”  Net Assets  3i slipped 0.1 percent to 209.4 pence in London trading.
The stock has climbed 16 percent this year, valuing the company
at 2 about billion pounds.  Net asset value fell to 273 pence a share at the end of
September from 279 pence a share at the end of March. Net debt
fell to 493 million pounds from 531 million pounds.  3i initiated a review of employee pay this year to ensure
that compensation better reflects the company’s performance,
Borrows said today. Compensation accounts for about 60 percent
of 3i’s annual operating costs, according to the statement.  Likely changes will include requiring that deferred shares
make up a bigger portion of pay for senior management so they
start behaving more like shareholders and greater variability
between the compensation of top earners and the lowest paid
employees, Borrows said. 3i will meet investors next year to
solicit their views and plans to make changes in 2013, he said.  Since announcing its cost-reduction plans in June, 3i has
reduced headcount by 104 employees and closed offices in
 Barcelona , Copenhagen,  Hong Kong , Milan and  Shanghai , according
to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  