-- 5-Hour Energy Drinks Cited in 13 Reports Involving Death
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-11-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/5-hour-energy-drinks-cited-in-13-reports-involving-death.html
5-Hour Energy drinks have been cited
in the deaths of 13 people in the past four years, according to
reports received by the  Food and Drug Administration .  The energy shot, distributed by closely held Living
Essentials LLC, has been associated with 92 adverse event
reports in that time, including 32 hospitalizations, Shelly Burgess, an FDA spokeswoman, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. The death reports are open cases being investigated
by the FDA, she said.  5-Hour Energy,  Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST)  energy drinks and
competing products are being targeted by lawmakers, including
U.S. Senator  Dick Durbin , an Illinois Democrat who wants
caffeine limits on the beverages after emergency room visits
involving such drinks jumped 10-fold from 2005 through 2009.
Regulators last month said drinks from Corona, California-based
Monster have been cited in the deaths of five people in the past
year according to reports filed voluntarily by doctors and
companies with the FDA. 5-Hour Energy is classified as a dietary
supplement that boosts energy and isn’t marketed as a beverage,
Living Essentials said yesterday in a statement.  The company “is unaware of any deaths proven to have been
caused by the consumption of 5-Hour Energy,” Farmington Hills,
Michigan-based Living Essentials said. “It is important to note
that submitting a serious adverse event report to the FDA,
according the agency itself, is not construed by FDA as an
admission that the dietary supplement was involved, caused or
contributed to the adverse event being reported.”  Caffeine Amount  5-Hour Energy said on its website that its energy shot
contains the same amount of caffeine as 12 ounces of a cup of
premium coffee. The company said it recommends individuals
consume no more than two bottles of the energy shot per day
“spaced several hours apart.”  Living Essentials “takes reports of any potential adverse
event tied to our products very seriously. We fully comply with
all of our reporting requirements,” the company said in its
statement.  Caffeine in energy drinks often ranges from 160 milligrams
to 500 milligrams a serving, the FDA said in an August letter
responding to Durbin’s call for greater industry regulation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  