-- A New Politburo Standing Committee Born in the Dark
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2012-11-15T20:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/a-new-politburo-standing-committee-born-in-the-dark.html
The first big scoop provided to
reporters at the Great Hall of the People this morning in China
was courtesy of the stage managers.  Under orders from somebody clearly in the know, they had
placed  seven numbers  on the stage -- where the new members of
the Politburo Standing Committee, China’s top decision-making
body, were expected to stand after being trotted out for the
news media. That cleared up a lot: For months, rumors had run
rampant that the nine-member body would be reduced by two.  Much of the suspense surrounding the announcement of the
new leadership was lost five years ago. In 2007, Xi Jinping --
the  newly named general  secretary -- became a member of the
Politburo (along with his future No. 2,  Li Keqiang ). The son of
a revolutionary leader, and a diligent, ambitious bureaucrat
who’d worked his way up from modest village posts to running
some of China’s most economically dynamic provinces, Xi was the
perfect compromise candidate to be at the helm of a badly
divided Communist Party leadership.  Still, that left five -- or perhaps seven -- places that
became subject to years of speculation and shortlists that were
steadily whittled down by guesses both educated and not. How
does a shortlisted bureaucrat land on the committee? In the
absence of any reporting from inside the Chinese leadership
compounds where the decisions are presumably made, the best that
can be said is: infighting, negotiation and, eventually,
consensus.  For all the opacity in the leadership transition process,
there have been some hints as to who took part in the
negotiating. Over the last few months, the frequent appearances
of former President  Jiang Zemin  -- officially retired in 2002
and  subject to death rumors as recently as July 2011  --
suggested to many that the old man remained both powerful and
determined to push China away from the legacy of his successor,
 Hu Jintao , and back toward the high-growth optimism of his own
13-year reign.  What was so terrible about Hu in the eyes of Jiang and his
allies? Like everything related to the current leadership
change, this is a matter of speculation. During Hu’s reign -- as
compared with Jiang’s -- the role of the state in  China’s
economy  expanded significantly, leading many to believe that a
rejuvenated state-owned sector was one cause of  China ’s economic
slowdown over the last year. Growing social unrest, driven at
least in part by a widening income gap, is also laid at the feet
of Hu and his allies. Finally, there are the demands and
presumed rights of China’s princelings -- the powerful and
wealthy children and grandchildren of China’s revolutionary
elite. Hu, of modest background, was not a princeling; Xi and
many of the shortlisted candidates for the new Politburo
Standing Committee are. Jiang, meanwhile, was a colleague
and friend to many of the princelings’ parents, and is often
viewed as a strong patron of their careers and interests -- a
position that has placed him in conflict with Hu.  Memoirs may one day reveal how and why the final committee
was chosen. For now, it can reasonably be assumed that some
tumult was involved. Yesterday, at the final session of the
weeklong People’s Congress that led up to this morning’s
announcement, Hu and the other, usually unflappable members of
the outgoing Politburo Standing Committee looked pale, exhausted
and ready to retire, with some slumped in their seats, mouths
partly agape. This year of infighting, highlighted by the fall
of  Bo Xilai , a princeling widely believed to have once been
shortlisted for the Politburo, is probably only the start.  The new, presumably energized Politburo Standing Committee
was scheduled to appear in the numbered slots at 11 a.m. Roughly
50 minutes past the hour, late enough to have been a matter of
comment on China’s social networks, they walked out in a single-
file, evenly spaced line that looked as if it’d been arranged by
a hall monitor. There were no surprises -- the shortlist had
grown very short in recent weeks -- and there was little
interesting, visually, about what amounted to showing the
Chinese people what was behind Curtain 1 -- and only Curtain 1.  Still, many of the Chinese reporters and other attendees
applauded and, incongruously, several of the new Politburo
members (not Xi or Li) clapped back. And why not celebrate? For
all of the mystery surrounding this transition, it is -- for now
-- only the second peaceful leadership transition in the history
of modern China. That it is, presumably, over is surely a relief
to everyone who fought over it.  Alas, so long as the recipe for pulling off a peaceful
transition remains tantamount to a state secret, nobody outside
China’s circle of power has reason to believe it can be
repeated. For the sake of China’s and the global community’s
stability, here’s to hoping the new Politburo, born in the dark,
is willing to turn on a few lights.  (Adam Minter is the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog and a contributor to the Ticker.)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at the  Ticker .
 