-- ABB Picks Company Veteran Elzvik as CFO to Integrate Assets
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-11-15T10:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/abb-picks-company-veteran-elzvik-as-cfo-to-integrate-assets-1-.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s biggest
supplier of power grids, appointed Eric Elzvik as chief
financial officer, leaning on a company veteran of almost three
decades to help integrate $10 billion of recent acquisitions.  Elzvik, who has Swiss-Swedish dual citizenship, will start
on Feb. 1, Zurich-based ABB said in a statement today. He takes
over from Michel Demare, who announced last month that he is
leaving to become chairman of crop-chemical maker  Syngenta AG. (SYNN)   The new finance chief secured the job against a “a strong
bench of internal candidates,” according to ABB. Chief
Executive Officer Joe Hogan has recruited all of his
appointments to the executive board from inside the company,
with the exception of Chief Technology Officer Prith Banerjee.  “He is a very experienced person in the company and has
been there almost 30 years,” said Christoph Ladner, an analyst
at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich. “Picking an outside
candidate would have been demotivating to existing employees.”  Elzvik now oversees the finances of ABB’s discrete
automation and motion division. Hogan, who joined from  General
Electric Co. (GE)  in 2008, has made a string of acquisitions that
include Thomas & Betts Corp. at the start of this year. Elzvik
formerly led mergers and acquisitions at ABB.  ABB shares fell as much as 1.4 percent to 16.83 francs and
traded at 17 francs as of 11:24 a.m. in Zurich.  Demare’s Legacy  The new CFO inherits a balance sheet that Demare helped
rebuild since 2005. Demare, who was interim CEO for seven months
in 2008, also raised $2.5 billion in a sale of bonds in May at
ABB’s lowest ever interest rates.  As head of the company’s group finances Elzvik will be
responsible for evaluating and financing takeovers, which still
has as much as $10 billion to spend on new deals.  The 52-year-old executive joined ABB in 1984. A successor
for the role of discrete automation & motion finance chief will
be announced in due course, ABB said.  “Eric is a familiar figure to bankers and the financial
community, and his presence guarantees continuity in terms of
financial strategy and governance,” Hogan said in a statement
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  