-- Mail.ru Seeks Deal for Russian Social Network Operator VKontakte
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-11-15T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/mail-ru-seeks-deal-for-russian-social-network-operator-vkontakte.html
Mail.ru Group Ltd., billionaire
 Alisher Usmanov ’s Web company, said it’s holding out on price as
it tries to buy Russian social network VKontakte.  “It makes enormous amounts of strategic sense for
VKontakte to be part of Mail,” Mail.ru Managing Director
Matthew Hammond said today said at a Morgan Stanley conference
in Barcelona. “It’s a deal that needs to be done at the right
price.”  Mail.ru already owns 40 percent of VKontakte, Russia’s
biggest social network, and a controlling stake would help
cement its leadership in the country’s social-networking market
and help it thwart expansion by  Facebook Inc. (FB)  Hammond declined
to comment on the status of discussions between the two
companies beyond saying that as a shareholder, Moscow-based
Mail.ru is in constant contact with VKontakte.  Mail.ru has raised funds by selling its holding in social
games maker  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  and reducing a stake in online daily deal
company  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , giving it cash on its balance sheet of
about $850 million to $900 million, Hammond said. The company’s
14.5 million-share stake in Facebook is locked up until next
year, he said.  Still, investors holding 48 percent of VKontakte’s shares
said last month that they have no plans to sell their shares to
Mail.ru. Vyacheslav Mirilashvili and Lev Leviev said on Oct. 3
that they rejected an offer from Mail.ru about six months
previously and hadn’t been in discussions since.  Leviev owns 6 percent of St. Petersburg-based VKontakte,
while his former classmate Mirilashvili holds 42 percent, Leviev
said. The duo provided funds to help programmer Pavel Durov
start VKontakte in December 2006.  Mail.ru may also look at smaller deals, funded by its  cash
flow , for games companies, which are a good way of recruiting
talent, as well as price comparison websites, Hammond said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  