-- Air France Delays Airbus A350 Contract Amid Engine Upkeep Spat
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-11-15T11:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/air-france-delays-airbus-a350-contract-amid-engine-upkeep-spat.html
-  Air France-KLM Group (AF) ,  Europe ’s
biggest airline, said it’s seeking to wrap up the purchase of 25
Airbus SAS A350 planes in the first half of next year as it
pushes back a contract amid arguments over engine maintenance.  The airline had announced plans for the purchase of the
wide-body aircraft in September 2011, together with an equal
number of  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s competing 787 model at a combined list
price of about $12 billion. While the Boeing deal has been
signed, Airbus is still waiting as Air France negotiates with
engine supplier  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  over maintenance.  “It’s reasonable to think that the talks on A350s will be
concluded in the first half of 2013,” Alexandre de Juniac,
chief executive officer of the company’s Air France brand, said
today at a briefing.  The French carrier is seeking to win work and preserve jobs
at its Air France Industries division, one of a shrinking number
of in-house aircraft servicing shops. Like units at Deutsche
Lufthansa AG and  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , the Air France
business counts on revenue from other carriers to cover costs.  Rolls-Royce, the only engine supplier for the A350, has
been reluctant to grant third-party repair rights because
maintenance contracts are more profitable than building the
actual engines.  Juniac had said in September that commercial negotiations
were still going on with Rolls-Royce, without specifying when an
agreement might be reached. In January 2012, he predicted the
contract would be signed “within weeks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  