-- Alcatel-Lucent Weighs Sale of Patents to Increase Cash
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-11-16T08:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/alcatel-lucent-weighs-patents-sale-to-boost-cash-pile-cfo-says.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU) , the French phone-
equipment maker considering asset sales to bolster its finances,
is weighing a disposal of some secondary patents as the company
seeks ways out of a streak of quarterly losses and a shrinking
cash pile, its chief financial officer said.  “We can look to monetize that portfolio through licensing,
through limited sales if those patents aren’t part of our core
and a few other things,” Paul Tufano said yesterday in an
interview at a conference organized by Morgan Stanley in
Barcelona. “We look at all of the above.”  Alcatel-Lucent, based in Paris, has almost 30,000 patents
and 15,000 patent applications pending, Tufano said.  “It’s a broad variety of technologies that we cover,” he
said. “It will be hard to find a company with as broad a patent
portfolio as ours, so I think it’s very attractive and there’s a
lot of interest and there could be a lot of interest from a lot
of different sources.”  Chief Executive Officer Ben Verwaayen, in his fifth year in
the job, is struggling to turn Alcatel-Lucent around as European
phone companies spend less and Asian rivals add pressure. The
more than 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion) of debt due over the
next three years is hampering the former  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  CEO’s
turnaround efforts as thousands of job cuts have failed to stem
losses.  Shares Gain  The shares added 0.8 percent to 84 cents at 9:06 a.m. in
Paris. They have plummeted about 80 percent since Verwaayen took
over in September 2008. The 60-year-old hasn’t reached his goal
of making Alcatel-Lucent sustainably profitable, and this month
reported a third-quarter loss of 146 million euros.  Verwaayen’s efforts to shore up cash flow included a
licensing agreement announced in February, which the company
expects will deliver several hundred million euros. Alcatel-
Lucent hasn’t disclosed revenue from the contract.  The CEO had so far said that the company would not look to
sell its patents, which include voice-recognition and video-
conferencing technology.  Last quarter, Alcatel-Lucent consumed 360 million euros of
cash. Its cash reserve has diminished by an average of 700
million euros a year since Verwaayen took over from former
chiefs Patricia Russo and Serge Tchuruk, who oversaw the merger
of Alcatel SA and Lucent Technologies Inc. in 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Barcelona at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Montpellier, France at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  