-- Alstom, EON Urge EU to Extend Deadine for CCS Funding
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-11-16T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/alstom-eon-urge-eu-to-extend-deadine-for-ccs-funding.html
EON AG,  Alstom SA (ALO)  and  Drax Group Plc (DRX) 
are among 17 power companies and industry groups asking European
Union regulators to push out the deadline for a carbon-capture
and storage program after national governments failed to
complete financing guarantees that would trigger more than 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) in EU funding.  The companies asked the EU Commission to defer a first
round of awards under the NER300 program “for just a few
months” as they negotiate with governments for the guarantees,
according to a statement issued yesterday by the London-based
Carbon Capture & Storage Association.  The EU is promoting the development of carbon-capture
systems and two to three projects were expected to receive as
much as 337 million euros each in the program’s first phase.
National governments must guarantee funds, a requirement that
hasn’t been met by most proposals. The lapse may cost the U.K.
about 600 million euros in EU funding, said Chris Davies, a
member of the EU Parliament’s Environment Committee.  “The NER300 only exists because Britain created it,” he
said by phone yesterday. “It’s ludicrous that we should miss
it.” Only  France  has made a firm commitment to support a CCS
project, he said in a Nov. 11 statement.  One Project  “There may only be one CCS project selected for funding
under the first tranche,” according to the statement. “A
number of promising CCS demonstration projects around  Europe  may
miss out on NER300 funding.” It didn’t identify the one project
that may be eligible for funding.  “We are extremely disappointed that the process seems to
have come to a conclusion without support for any projects,”
Jeff Chapman, chief executive officer of the Carbon Capture &
Storage Association, said in a phone interview yesterday.  The U.K. submitted two proposals to the NER300 program, for
the Teesside and White Rose projects, Energy Secretary  Ed Davey 
said Oct. 30. Britain has pledged 1 billion pounds ($1.59
billion) for CCS technology and hasn’t committed funding to
specific projects as required for the NER300 program.  “Brussels officials are making no secret of the fact that
the government has failed to guarantee that it will provide its
own funding for the selected projects, and is giving no pledges
that it will make such a commitment anytime soon, if at all,”
Davies said in the Nov. 11 statement.  The NER300 program will announce its selection before the
end of the year, Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate spokesman for the
commission, said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  