-- Talvivaara Brings Back Pera as CEO Amid Output Decline, Leak
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-11-15T11:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/talvivaara-brings-back-pera-as-ceo-amid-production-decline-leak.html
Talvivaara Mining Co. (TALV) , the Finnish
nickel miner struggling to meet production targets and stem
environmental contamination, brought back its founder as chief
executive officer until operations are “stabilized.”  Talvivaara named Pekka Pera as CEO effective today and
appointed Tapani Jaervinen as chairman of the board, according
to a statement to the Helsinki Stock Exchange. Harri Natunen,
who steps down as head of the company, continues in “other
executive functions,” it said.  Talvivaara has had difficulty boosting  cash flow  after
nickel prices fell to the lowest in three years and heavy rains
damaged its metal heap, causing the Espoo-based company to
reduce output targets. A waste-water leak, which the company
struggled to contain for 11 days before stemming the flow
yesterday, contaminated waters with nickel, zinc and uranium.  Talvivaara rose 12 percent to 1.393 euros in Helsinki
trading as of 1:25 p.m. local time. The stock gained 6.7 percent
in  London .  Metal production has been halted since the breach in the
gypsum pond was found. The metal discharges may harm wildlife in
the surrounding lakes, while the radiation levels pose no harm
to humans.  The company will hear back from the local authority later
today about when production can be restarted, Pera told a
briefing in Helsinki. He estimated that the cost of cleaning up
the environmental damage could run to “several million euros.”  ‘Interim Nature’  Natunen had been appointed CEO on April 26, replacing Pera,
who announced his resignation a year ago after the company cut
its annual output forecast twice.  The latest appointments “are of interim nature and in
force until further notice and at least until the company’s
operations have been stabilized following the recent events,”
 Talvivaara (TLV1V)  said in today’s statement.  The company, which has a 76.9 million-euro ($98 million)
5.25 percent bond maturing on May 20, may fail to raise new debt
to repay it. Instead, it may seek funds by selling new shares
and diluting existing shareholders, analysts at FIM Bank Oyj and
Nordea Bank AB have said.  The new CEO said he’d be prepared to bolster Talvivaara’s
finances himself. “I believe in Talvivaara’s potential and I’m
ready to invest more in it, within my means of course.” Pera is
the biggest shareholder with 21 percent.  Talvivaara said on Oct. 15 it was unlikely to meet a full-
year output target of 17,000 metric tons of nickel because
excess water at the Sotkamo mine had diluted metal grades in the
leaching process. It has forecast that fourth-quarter production
will be higher than the 4,030 tons in the third. That projection
will be reviewed after a startup date for production is known.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  