-- Amadeus IT Holding Seeks Airline Executives to Strengthen Board
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-11-15T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/amadeus-it-holding-seeks-airline-executives-to-strengthen-board.html
Amadeus IT Holding SA (AMS) , a Spanish
operator of airline bookings systems, said it needs to add
senior airline executives to its board as  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group
SA and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  reduce their stakes.  “ We need to decide on the board how we manage this
balance,” Chief Executive Officer Luis Maroto said in an
interview in Barcelona today. “In the past, airlines were
managing the whole direction. Now we have private equity and
more independent board members, who are very good, but they are
not industry experts.”  The company would benefit from the addition of former chief
executives officers who understand the industry and maintain
good contacts with company executives, Maroto said. Such
deepening of ties doesn’t mean that Amadeus is looking for more
investments by airlines, he said, adding that “I don’t think it
makes sense for an airline to own a technology company.”  Lufthansa sold shares in Amadeus yesterday. Air France has
reduced its stake this year, and  International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA (IAG) ’s Iberia has hedged against share declines.
Amadeus, which is seeking to deliver more booking services for
hotels and railways to reduce its dependence on airline traffic,
has gained more than 50 percent this year, making it the third-
best performer in  Spain ’s 35-stock IBEX Index and giving the
company a market value of 8.44 billion euros.  While Spain’s economic crisis means bookings in the country
have decreased 25 percent, the company hasn’t suffered any
surprises during the current quarter and will “do fine” this
year, Maroto said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  