-- Amtrak Back to Full Service for Thanksgiving, CEO Says
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-11-15T21:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/amtrak-back-to-full-service-for-thanksgiving-ceo-says.html
Amtrak will be ready to handle the
surge of passengers expected during the U.S. Thanksgiving
holiday after completing repairs on equipment damaged by last
month’s superstorm, the passenger rail system’s chief said.  A New Jersey power substation damaged by  Hurricane Sandy ,
which struck the east coast on Oct. 29, will be fully functional
tomorrow, and the railroad is borrowing equipment from  Canada  so
it will have enough cars for holiday travelers, Joseph Boardman,
Amtrak’s chief executive officer, said today in an interview.  “We expect to be able to cover our full service load for
Thanksgiving,” Boardman said of the holiday that falls on Nov.
22 this year. “There are a lot of people that want to move.”  The Washington-based railroad had been limited to about 24
trains a day through its two tunnels under the Hudson River
because a power station was damaged by the storm, Boardman said.
The full complement of 38 trains should be running tomorrow, he
said. Those tunnels connect New York’s Pennsylvania Station to
locations to the south and west.  Without Substation 41, as it is known, in Kearny, New
Jersey, there wasn’t enough electricity to power  Amtrak ’s
regular schedule.  The railroad also is obtaining extra equipment from Via
Rail Canada Inc., which will be used on the line from  Albany ,
New York, to  Montreal , he said.  Amtrak will then be able to redeploy its own equipment to
New Jersey to supplement that state’s rail system, which was
damaged in the storm, he said.  Busy Holiday  The railroad’s busiest period each year is during
Thanksgiving. Last year, a record 724,000 people traveled on the
rail system during the eight days surrounding the holiday,
according to a release.  Boardman spoke after delivering a speech in Washington at a
U.S. National Mediation Board conference.  The railroad chief also said he’s looking forward to
working with the presumptive new chairman of the House
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Pennsylvania
Republican Bill Shuster.  “I think that Bill Shuster wants to get some things
done,” Boardman said. “We’re happy about that. We want him to
get things done.”  Shuster is a regular user of Amtrak, Boardman said. “We
know he knows us.”  Shuster announced his candidacy for the chairmanship to
other lawmakers on Nov. 7, according to a release from his
office.  The current transportation chairman, Representative John Mica, a Florida Republican, can’t return to the post because of
party term limits unless Republican leadership grants him an
exemption.  Mica has held several hearings in recent months critical of
Amtrak, which he calls a “Soviet-style” operation. At a
hearing on Aug. 2, Mica said Amtrak had lost $833.8 million in
food and beverage service over 10 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in  Washington  at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  