-- Man. City Wants Liverpool’s Suarez, Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-11-15T09:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/man-city-wants-liverpool-s-suarez-mirror-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  City Steal  Manchester City  is planning to bid 40 million pounds ($63
million) for Liverpool striker  Luis Suarez  in January and may
sell  Mario Balotelli  to fund the purchase,  the Daily Mirror
said.   Manager  Roberto Mancini  wants to bring in the Uruguayan
national team player, this season’s leading scorer in the
Premier League, and the price may rise to 50 million pounds, the
newspaper said.  City is also interested in Atletico Madrid striker Radamel
Falcao, although the Colombian would be more expensive, and is
believed to want to join Chelsea, the newspaper said.  Lampard Leaving  Chelsea midfielder  Frank Lampard  has been told he must
leave the west London club and will reject a 130,000 pound a
week contract in China to move to the Los Angeles Galaxy club,
 the Daily Star said.   The 34-year-old won’t be offered a new deal when his
contract expires at the end of the season, the newspaper said.
The Galaxy may try to sign the player, who is injured, in
January, the Star said.  Norwich Wishes  Norwich manager  Chris Hughton  is eyeing Arsenal’s Marouane
Chamakh and West Ham’s Carlton Cole as he tries to find goals
for the Canaries, who have only scored eight times in 11 league
games, the  Daily Mail  said.  Hughton will talk to chief executive officer David McNally
to see how much money will be available in January to strengthen
the team, the newspaper said.  Striker Hunting  Schalke striker Klaas-Jan Huntelaar is debating whether to
join Arsenal, Chelsea or Liverpool or to remain in Germany,  the
Sun said.   The Dutch national team player’s contract expires at the
end of the season, and the 29-year-old’s agent said he wants to
make a decision by the “winter,” the newspaper said.  He scored 48 goals in 47 goals for the German team last
season, and might be available for 7 million pounds, the
newspaper said.  Barton’s Decision  Joey Barton  wants to stay in Marseille after his loan from
Queens Park Rangers expires after the season,  the Mirror said.   The midfielder moved to France after being banned for 12
matches because of his actions at Manchester City last season,
and has only been able to play in the Europa League so far, the
newspaper said.  Barton said he would stay in Marseille if QPR and the
French team can come to an agreement, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  