-- Anti-Bribery Guide, Danish Banks, EU Firewall: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-11-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/anti-bribery-guide-danish-banks-eu-firewall-compliance.html
Officials who work for companies
that are more than half-owned or controlled by a foreign
government are probably covered by U.S. foreign bribery laws,
the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange
Commission said yesterday.  The status of employees of state-owned companies is part of
a 120-page document providing the most detailed  guidelines  to
date for a law that has cost companies billions of dollars in
fines and penalties.  The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act bars companies or
individuals regulated or based in the U.S. from paying bribes to
foreign officials to win business. Foreign companies and
nationals also can be prosecuted if their corrupt acts were
committed in the U.S.  The SEC and Justice Department have stepped up their
enforcement of the 1977 law in recent years. The guidance, which
also addresses what level of gifts, travel and entertainment
constitute a violation, has been long sought after by law firms,
which are called in to investigate and negotiate alleged
wrongdoing.  Foreign bribery investigations have touched companies with
foreign subsidiaries.  Compliance Policy  Danish FSA Burned Once Closes Backdoor to Capital Dilution  Denmark ’s financial regulator is warning the country’s
 banks (SX7P)  that an understatement of lending risks won’t be tolerated
as it embarks on a hunt to catch what it’s dubbed “backdoor”
capital dilution.  The  Financial Supervisory Authority  will review internal
rating models that determine how much capital a lender sets
aside to ensure banks don’t find a way around stricter
standards. While banks may fulfill capital requirements on
paper, recent failures suggest risk weights don’t always reflect
reality, leaving buffers too small to absorb losses.  When Denmark’s housing bubble burst more than four years
ago, it revealed widespread capital shortfalls that have since
led to the demise of more than a dozen regional lenders. Toender
Bank A/S, the most recent insolvency, followed a reported three-
fold increase in profit in the first half and a solvency ratio -
- a measure of financial strength -- of 17.3 percent at the end
of June. Yet an inspection last month by the FSA revealed bad
loans almost 10 times as big as those reported by the bank,
wiping out its equity.  The government has urged the industry to consolidate rather
than risk more failures, extending state guarantees and granting
access to depositor guarantee funds to help finance takeovers.  Banks operating in Denmark have lashed out at the FSA,
arguing its insistence on more rigorous standards in the middle
of a crisis is exacerbating the nation’s economic decline as
lenders compensate by raising fees and withholding credit.  For more, click here.  EU Bank Firewall Plan May Push Up Lenders’ Costs, AFME Says  Banks may face increased funding costs and have to cut back
lending if the European Union presses ahead with plans to impose
structural changes, according to an industry lobbying group.  Proposals from an EU advisory group to force banks to put
much of their trading activities into separately capitalized
units may have a “significant detrimental impact on European
growth,” the  Association for Financial Markets in Europe  said
in an e-mailed statement. The plans “could also weaken the
structure of the European banking sector” and reduce
competition, the group said.  Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief, has said
that he’s weighing proposals made by the advisory group. The
measures, which would force lenders to set up legally separate
trading entities, are a “good basis” for future EU policy
making, Barnier has said.  Afme represents international lenders including  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  The
statement was co-signed by the  International Swaps and
Derivatives Association .  Systemic Banks May Be First for Basel Debt-Disclosure in EU Plan  Systemically important  banks  may have to disclose how well
they measure up to an internationally agreed-upon debt limit
before other lenders, under draft European Union plans.  European Parliament lawmakers and officials from Cyprus,
which holds the EU’s rotating presidency, agreed on the step
during negotiations in Brussels this week. The so-called
leverage ratio is part of a draft law to apply Basel rules in
the 27-nation bloc.  Philippe Lamberts, who leads work on the draft rules for
the Green group, said in a telephone interview that while the
principle for earlier disclosure was adopted, negotiators are
split over other issues, including on lawmakers’ demands for
banks to disclose country-by-country information on their
activities, such as taxes paid and state-aid received.  Nations are struggling to meet a Jan 1 deadline for
starting to apply the revised Basel rules. The EU’s draft law to
implement the measures must be agreed on by the parliament and
by governments before it can take effect.  Compliance Action  SEC Exempts Companies From Some Requirements Because of Sandy  The Securities Exchange and Commission issued an  order 
yesterday that provides exemptions from certain provisions of
the securities laws because of the disruptions caused by
 Hurricane Sandy .  Among the provisions subject to exemptions is the Exchange
Act filing requirements from Oct. 29 to Nov. 20, proxy and
information statement delivery requirements, and Investment
Company Act requirements.  For more,  click here  and  click here .  Indonesia Takes On Energy Oversight After Regulator Wound Up  The Indonesian government will assume responsibility for
overseeing the nation’s oil and gas activities, President Susilo
Bambang Yudhoyono said, a day after the industry regulator was
dissolved by a court.  A new unit within the Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry
will handle BPMigas’s role for a transition period, Yudhoyono
said yesterday at a press conference, confirming earlier remarks
by Deputy Energy Minister Rudi Rubiandini.  Yudhoyono said in Jakarta that the presidential decree aims
at preventing a regulatory vacuum and providing certainty for in
the industry. All oil and gas contracts remain valid and all
operational activities will go on, he said.  BPMigas was dissolved Nov. 13 by the nation’s
Constitutional Court, raising concern that shipments of
liquefied natural gas would be reduced.  Indonesia  is the world’s
third-largest exporter of the fuel, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy. BPMigas had been created
under a 2001 law that violated the nation’s constitution,
according to the court.  The new unit will assume responsibility for approving the
development of new fields, work programs and budgets, and
approving exports of oil and gas, Rubiandini said in a text
message. The office will continue to operate until the 2001
legislation is amended, he said.  The government will start drafting a new law to ensure
certainty and improve the country’s oil and gas business,
Yudhoyono said.  Philippine State Agencies Monitoring Property Sector for Bubble  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas  is working with the Philippine
 Securities and Exchange Commission  and the  Philippine Deposit
Insurance and Insurance Commission  in monitoring the property
sector to ensure banks are managing risks well.  The monitoring is an effort by the government to prevent an
asset bubble, Managing Director Johnny Noe Ravalo told reporters
in  Manila . There is no asset bubble now, he said.  BSP will impose prudential measures to prevent bubbles,
Ravalo said. It ordered banks in August to provide more details
on their real-estate exposure by year end.  Courts  Barclays Must Disclose Libor Traders, Submitters in Swap Lawsuit  Barclays Plc (BARC)  must disclose the identities of Libor traders
and employees that made submissions to set interest rates, after
a ruling yesterday in the first U.K. lawsuit related to
manipulation of the  London  interbank offered rate.  Judge Julian Flaux in London said the bank must give the
information on the workers to Guardian Care Homes Ltd., which
sued the bank over a loss-making interest-rate swap tied to
Libor. London-based Barclays must also provide Guardian the e-
mail communications of 42 employees, transcripts of phone
conversations that refer to Libor, board minutes and documents
from the bank’s treasury committee, Flaux ruled.  Flaux hasn’t yet ruled whether the bank must disclose the
information only to Guardian or if it should be made public.  Guardian sued over the swap that cost it about 12 million
pounds ($19 million), saying Libor -- the baseline for about
$300 trillion of contracts worldwide -- can’t be trusted. In
June, the lender was fined a record 290 million pounds after
regulators found its investment bankers tried to manipulate the
interest rate.  Barclays failed to have the Libor-fixing part of the suit
thrown out on Oct. 29 when a judge ruled it would have to answer
accusations it profited from rigging Libor submissions.  Barclays spokesman Jon Laycock wasn’t immediately available
to comment.  Interviews/Speeches  Ceccatelli Says Euro-Area Bank Union Is ‘Gigantic Task’  Jacopo Ceccatelli, a partner at  JC & Associati SIM ,
discussed Italian banks, loan provisions and a euro-area banking
union.  He spoke from Milan with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move.”  For the video, click here.  Norway Central Banker Reviles Bernanke Cash in John Law Quip  Ben Bernanke risks being remembered for the same monetary
folly that was perpetrated by John Law, the banker who fled 18th
century  France  after creating an asset bubble, the deputy
governor of  Norway ’s central bank said.  “If printing money is not followed up by action -- in euro
area countries, in the U.K. and in the U.S. -- Mario Draghi,
Mervyn King and Ben Bernanke run the risk of being recorded in
history in the same chapter as the Scotsman John Law,” Norges
Bank Deputy Governor Jan F. Qvigstad said in the text of a
speech set to be delivered Nov. 13 in Oslo.  European Central Bank President Draghi, Federal Reserve
Chairman Bernanke and Bank of England Governor King are pursuing
unprecedented stimulus programs in an effort to pull their
economies out of the worst crisis since the Great Depression.  The ECB’s main interest rate is 0.75 percent, the Fed’s
rate hovers near zero and the Bank of England’s is 0.5 percent.
Draghi in September pledged unlimited debt purchases to support
euro markets. Bernanke a week later vowed to buy bonds until the
U.S. labor market recovers.  John Law, born in 1671, was a Scottish economist who moved
to France and helped revive the French economy in a scheme that
later backfired, forcing him to flee.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New York  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  