-- Manufacturing in New York Region Shrinks for Fourth Month
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-11-15T15:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/manufacturing-in-new-york-region-shrinks-for-fourth-month.html
Manufacturing in the New York region
contracted for a fourth straight month in November as superstorm
Sandy knocked out electrical power and limited activity.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
 index  was minus 5.2 this month after minus 6.2 in October. The
median forecast of 55 economists in a Bloomberg survey called
for minus 8. Readings of less than zero signal contraction in
New York, northern New Jersey and southern  Connecticut . Another
Fed gauge of manufacturing around Philadelphia dropped to a
four-month low.  Power outages and destruction in New Jersey and New York
from Sandy placed a temporary burden on the region’s factories,
which have been challenged by a recession in  Europe  and slower
Asian economies. Companies have limited orders to factories as
they pull back on equipment investment on concern lawmakers will
fail to avoid the fiscal cliff -- a package of automatic tax
increases and spending cuts set to take effect early next year.  “Capital expenditures look to be slowing in earnest,”
Jacob Oubina, senior U.S. economist at RBC Capital Markets LLC
in New York, said before the report. “In addition to the fiscal
cliff and uncertainty, we’ve had a synchronous slowing in global
manufacturing that’s affecting us here at home.”  Jobless Claims  Sandy also wreaked havoc on the job market. Applications
for  jobless benefits  surged by 78,000 to 439,000 in the week
ended Nov. 10, the most since April 2011, the Labor Department
said today in Washington. Several states said the increase was
due to the storm that hit the Northeastern part of the U.S. in
late October, a Labor Department spokesman said as the data were
released to the press.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s  general business 
activity gauge declined in November to minus 10.7, the lowest
level since July, from 5.7 a month earlier. Orders and sales
decreased at faster rates, while factory employment in the
region shrank for a fifth straight month.  Stocks rose as U.S. lawmakers prepared for budget talks.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.2 percent to 1,358.19
at 10:07 a.m. in New York.  All Fed survey respondents in the New York City area
reported “some reduction in activity” because of Sandy. The
loss of power and communications was the biggest reason cited by
70 percent of those businesses.  Bloomberg survey estimates of the factory index ranged from
minus 16.2 to 2.  Factory Employment  The Empire State measure of  factory employment  dropped to
minus 14.6, the weakest since July 2009, from minus 1.1 in
October.  The gauge of new orders increased to 3.1 from minus 9 in
October. A measure of shipments rose to 14.6 from minus 6.4.  The index of prices paid eased to 14.6 from 17.2, while
prices received rose to 5.6 from 4.3.  Factory executives in the New York Fed’s district were less
optimistic about the future. The gauge measuring the outlook six
months from now dropped to 12.9 from 19.4.  Manufacturing makes up about 12 percent of the U.S. economy
and about 6 percent of New York’s.  Economists monitor the New York report and Philadelphia Fed
factory readings, due later today, for clues about the Institute
for Supply Management figures on U.S. manufacturing, set for
release Dec. 3.  Business Investment  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  are among
companies that have cut forecasts, a reminder that business
investment will no longer bolster the world’s largest economy as
it did earlier in the recovery. Wind turbine manufacturers
Vestas Wind Systems AS and  Seimens AG (SIE)  are laying off workers
amid a slowdown in orders triggered by the fiscal cliff.  Railroads that once counted on a late-year surge in
shipping volumes are seeing their peak season dissipate as
retailers change their buying habits to stock only as much as
they can sell. Retail sales in October fell for the first time
in four months, Commerce Department figures showed yesterday.  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC) , based in Norfolk,  Virginia , also
reported weaker demand for coal and other raw materials in
October even before Sandy made landfall, said Chief Financial
Officer John Rathbone.  “We, like a lot of lot of companies, are concerned about
the fiscal cliff and what it means to the economy,” Rathbone
said at a Nov. 14 conference. “We’re hoping that Washington
will see its way clear of making a rational decision on that.”  Weaker global economies are also weighing on manufacturers.
The euro-area economy succumbed to a recession for the second
time in four years as governments imposed tougher budget cuts
and leaders struggled to contain the debt crisis that broke out
in October 2009.  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation bloc slipped 0.1
percent in the third quarter after a 0.2 percent decline in the
previous three months, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  