-- Apple Products Stolen From Lufthansa Heist Site at JFK
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-11-16T01:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/apple-products-stolen-from-lufthansa-heist-site-at-jfk.html
More than $1.5 million worth of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  products were stolen from a cargo building at New
York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport that was the site
of a 1978 heist memorialized in the movie “Goodfellas.”  Investigators at the Port Authority of New York and New
Jersey, which operates the airport, suspect that the theft was
an inside job and are pursuing leads, Ron Marsico, a spokesman
for the agency, said today in an interview.  The building where the crime took place, Building 261, was
the location of the 1978 Lufthansa heist that was documented in
the 1990 Martin Scorsese film  “Goodfellas,”  Marsico said.  The crime was reported earlier today by the New York Post,
The thieves used one of the airport’s forklifts to load two
pallets of IPad minis, or about 3,600 of the devices, into a
truck, the newspaper said, citing unidentified people in law
enforcement.  The thieves arrived at the building at about 11 p.m. in a
white tractor-trailer on the side of the building that faces the
street and has less security than the other side, which is next
to the tarmac, the newspaper said, citing the people.  The stolen items had arrived from  China  and were to be
shipped throughout the U.S. by a company called Cargo Airport
Services, the Post reported. The thieves left behind three
pallets of products after an airport worker returning from
dinner challenged them, the newspaper said.  Phil Jensen, director of sales and marketing for Cargo
Airport Services, declined to comment on the theft in a
telephone interview, citing a pending investigation. The
company, which is based at the airport, provides cargo-handling
services to more than 80 carriers in the U.S. and  Canada ,
according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  