-- Applied Materials Sales Forecast Misses Projection
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-11-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/applied-materials-sales-forecast-misses-projection.html
Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) , the world’s
largest producer of chipmaking equipment, forecast fiscal first-
quarter sales and profit that fell short of estimates, a sign
that some customers are holding off on expansion plans.  Sales in the current period will decline as much as 15
percent from the prior quarter, the company said yesterday in a
statement, a fifth straight year-over-year drop. That indicates
revenue of $1.4 billion to $1.65 billion. Analysts on average
estimated sales of $1.77 billion, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Applied Materials supplies machinery to the world’s biggest
chipmakers --  Intel Corp. (INTC) , Samsung Electronics Co. and Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. -- making orders an indicator of
manufacturers’ confidence in demand. With excess supply, memory
chip makers don’t yet see enough evidence to expand output,
limiting the need for equipment.  “It’s pretty clear there’s not much of a rebound
happening,” said Weston Twigg, an analyst at Pacific Crest
Securities LLC who rates Applied Materials at sector perform.
“So the guidance isn’t such a big negative surprise, given what
peers have said.”  Excluding acquisition-related expenses, Applied Materials
said it will break even or have a profit of as much as 6 cents
in the first quarter, which ends in January. On that basis, it
was estimated to have a profit of 9 cents a share, the average
of analysts’ predictions.  Demand Rebound  The popularity of mobile devices will continue to drive
spending in the industry, and demand will start to recover,
according to Chief Executive Officer Mike Splinter.  “We see improving business conditions entering 2013, with
orders projected to increase after bottoming in the fourth
quarter,” Splinter said on a call yesterday with analysts. “We
expect healthy investment by foundry customers in 2013, albeit
at a lower level than 2012.”  Shares of  Santa Clara , California-based Applied Materials
rose less than 1 percent in after-hours trading yesterday. The
stock fell 6 cents to $10.30 at the close in  New York , and has
declined 3.8 percent this year.  Applied Materials reported a fourth-quarter net loss of
$515 million, or 42 cents a share, the first loss since the July
quarter of 2009. The company posted net income of $456 million,
or 34 cents a share, a year earlier.  Revenue in the period that ended Oct. 28 fell 25 percent to
$1.65 billion. That compares with average analyst estimates for
revenue of $1.58 billion.  In October, the company said it plans to eliminate 900 to
1,300 jobs, or 6 percent to 9 percent of worldwide workforce.  “Memory is still extremely weak and I don’t believe there
can be a call for a turnaround yet,” said Ben Pang, a San
Francisco-based analyst for Caris & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  