-- Target Third-Quarter Profit Rises 15% as Store Sales Gain
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-11-15T14:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/target-third-quarter-profit-rises-15-as-store-sales-gain.html
Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest
U.S. discount retailer, said third-quarter profit increased 15
percent as its branded credit cards boosted store sales.  Net income in the quarter ended Oct. 27 rose to $637
million, or 96 cents a share, from $555 million, or 82 cents, a
year earlier, the Minneapolis-based company said in a statement.
Analysts  projected  96 cents, the average of six  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Gregg Steinhafel  has spent the past
two years squeezing more sales from Target’s 1,700 U.S. stores
by adding fresh food and exclusive merchandise. The chain also
has encouraged more spending from its best customers by giving 5
percent discounts on purchases made with a Target-branded credit
or debit card.  “Target’s fundamentals remain solid,”  Charles Grom , an
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in New York, wrote in a note to
clients before the results. The company has shown increases in
store traffic with growing penetration of fresh food and loyalty
card users, said Grom, who recommends buying the shares.  Those initiatives have helped maintain sales growth as the
company slowed store openings in preparation for its first
expansion outside the U.S. next year to  Canada . Revenue from
established stores increased 3.7 percent this year through
October, the company said Nov. 1. Target posted a gain of 3
percent for all of last year.  Target rose 0.8 percent to $61.85 at 9:57 a.m. in New York.
The shares had  gained  20 percent this year through yesterday.  Gross Margin Narrows  The third-quarter results included a one-time gain of 15
cents a share from an agreement last month to sell its credit
card portfolio to TD Bank Group.  While increasing sales of food and having more shoppers use
its discount cards has boosted Target’s revenue, those
strategies have also hurt profitability. Gross margin, the
percentage of sales left after subtracting the cost of goods
sold, weakened in the third quarter, narrowing to 30.3 percent
form 30.5 percent a year earlier.  The percentage of sales being made through its REDCard
discount program, which includes Target-issued credit and debit
cards, rose to 14 percent from 9.5 percent a year earlier.  Comparable-store sales rose 2.9 percent in the quarter.  Total  sales , including revenue from the credit-card unit,
rose 3.2 percent to $16.93 billion. Analysts projected $16.95
billion, the average of  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit in the fourth quarter will be $1.45 to $1.55 a
share, the company said. Analysts projected $1.50, the average
of 15 estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  