-- U.K. Biggest Solar Plant Cleared for Construction at Airfield
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-11-15T12:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/lark-energy-gets-approval-for-u-k-s-largest-solar-park.html
Lark Energy, a unit of the
homebuilder Larkfleet Ltd., won planning permission to develop a
32-megawatt solar park that will become the U.K.’s largest
photovoltaic plant.  The company intends to complete the 35 million-pound ($55
million) plant before April, when subsidies are due to be
reduced, according to a statement on its  website  today. It will
install 125,000 solar panels on 150 acres between the runways of
a former military airfield in Wymeswold, which is between
Leicester and Nottingham in central  England .  The project covering the equivalent to about 87 soccer
fields has more than six times more capacity than any U.K. solar
park in operation. Its development is an indication that the
cost of solar panels has fallen so much that developers are
working on utility-scale plants too big to qualify for the most
lucrative subsidies in Britain.  “Lark Energy has played a leading role in demonstrating
how large scale renewable energy can be deployed quickly and
with the support of the local community,” Jonathan Selwyn,
managing director of Lark Energy, said in a statement.  While the scale of the facility is big for Britain, it’s
less than half the size of the largest plants in Germany and
 Italy , which are the leading markets worldwide for solar power.
The U.K. guarantees above market rates for solar energy coming
from plants smaller than 5 megawatts, a cap intended to limit
the cost to consumers of power from utility-scale plants.  Biggest Plants  TGC Renewables Ltd., another developer, said in June that
it won approval for an 8-megawatt project in Devon that at the
time was the biggest in the U.K. Inazin Power Ltd., Hive Energy
Ltd. and  Good Energy Group Plc (GOOD) , a U.K. retailer of clean energy,
have announced plans for projects with 25 to 40 megawatts this
year, though those don’t yet have planning permission.  Projects of this size qualify for two tradable green
certificates, or ROCs, for each megawatt hour of solar power.
The certificates currently pay about 39.5 pounds each during 15
years, which add up to one of the lowest solar subsidy rates in
 Europe .  Under government proposals, solar plants will get 1.5 ROCs
from April, a cut that’s prompting a surge of larger-scale
facilities before the changes come into force.  Lark’s Wymeswold solar project received planning approval
from Charnwood Borough Council on Nov. 8, the company said. The
financing will provided by Hazel Capital LLP, a London-based
investment manager.  “We are delighted to be involved in this large, first-of-
its-kind project in the UK,” Ben Guest, Hazel Capital’s
managing partner, said. “We believe that larger industrial
sites make great locations for solar projects going forward in
the U.K.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  