-- Asia Stocks Outside Japan Drop; Japan Shares Rise on Poll
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2012-11-15T10:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/asian-stocks-benchmark-index-trades-at-two-month-low.html
Asian  stocks  outside Japan slid
toward a two-month low amid concern a budget standoff in the
U.S. may curb global growth. Japanese shares gained on
speculation a change of government may result in more action to
stimulate the economy.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, fell
1.8 percent in Sydney, declining for a sixth day in its longest
losing streak since July.  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s biggest
Internet company, dropped 7 percent in Hong Kong after earnings
missed estimates. Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corp. surged 4.8
percent in Tokyo.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Ex-Japan Index (MXAPJ)  fell 1.1 percent to
433.74 as of 7:54 p.m. in Tokyo, the lowest level since
September 13. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng lost 1.6 percent and China’s
Shanghai Composite declined 1.2 percent as Xi Jinping replaced
Hu Jintao as head of the Chinese Communist Party. Japan’s  Nikkei
225 Stock Average (NKY)  rose 1.9 percent.  The fiscal-cliff “creates more uncertainty for investors
and markets all over the world,” said Wayne Bowers, chief
executive officer for Asia-Pacific and Europe at Northern Trust
Global Investments, which has about $750 billion in assets under
management. He spoke in a Bloomberg TV interview in  Hong Kong .
“You have this negative feedback loop continuing that really
does affect both consumer consumption, personal confidence, as
well as business investment.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent
today. The  S&P 500  lost 1.4 percent yesterday and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  slid to the lowest level since June.
Investors’ attention remained fixed on Washington, where
lawmakers need to reach a budget agreement in order to avoid a
so-called “fiscal cliff” of $607 billion in automatic tax
increases and spending cuts next year for the world’s largest
economy.  China Leadership  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, which includes Japanese
shares, fell 0.2 percent today. The measure gained 9.9 percent
through yesterday from this year’s low on June 4 as central
banks added stimulus to spur economic growth and data showed a
slowdown in China may be ending. The measure traded at 13.2
times estimated earnings yesterday, compared with 13 for the S&P
500 and 12 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Xi Jinping was named today to replace  Hu Jintao  as head of
the Chinese Communist Party, ushering in the fifth generation of
leaders set to run the world’s second-biggest economy over the
next decade. He was also named chairman of the party’s Central
Military Commission.  Australia, Singapore  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 0.9 percent. BHP
Billiton declined 1.8 percent to A$33.12 and Rio Tinto Ltd., the
world’s second-largest mining company, sank 1.8 percent to
A$56.82. Singapore’s Straits Times lost 1.1 percent and South
Korea’s Kospi declined 1.2 percent.  Japanese shares advanced as the ruling  Democratic Party  of
Japan decided the national vote for the lower house will be held
Dec. 16. The deal to bring forward elections due in August came
after LDP leader Shinzo Abe agreed to end an impasse over
financing the budget and to support a plan to reduce the number
of Diet seats.  “A government led by the Liberal Democratic Party is
expected to win,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about
$600 million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co.
“Investors believe that will add pressure on the  Bank of Japan 
to ease policy, and the government will adopt strong policies to
get the economy out of deflation.”  An 8.9 percent plunge by  Sony Corp. (6758)  was the second biggest
drag on the Nikkei 225 as the electronics maker touched its
lowest level since 1980. The company, reeling from four
consecutive annual losses, said it will sell convertible bonds.  Esprit Jumps  Tencent retreated 7 percent to HK$249.20.  Net income 
climbed to 3.22 billion  yuan , missing the 3.33 billion-yuan
average estimated by eight analysts’ surveyed by Bloomberg, as a
slowing economy pared growth in online advertising sales.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330)  surged 22 percent to HK$12.96, the
highest level since May. Former chairman Michael Ying doubled
his stake in the apparel maker that’s struggling with a sales
slump.  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s largest carrier, rose 4.1
percent to A$1.28 after saying it will buy as much as A$100
million ($104 million) of its own shares with cash from cutting
a Boeing Co. order.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  