-- ASML Doesn’t Need More EUV-System Acquisitions, CFO Says
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-11-15T10:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/asml-doesn-t-need-more-euv-system-acquisitions-cfo-says.html
ASML Holding NV (ASML) , Europe’s largest
semiconductor-equipment supplier, plans to deliver more advanced
chipmaking technology without additional purchases following its
1.95 billion-euro ($2.5 billion) deal to buy  Cymer (CYMI)  Inc.  “We don’t need anything,” Chief Financial Officer Peter Wennink said today in an interview at a conference organized by
Morgan Stanley in Barcelona. “The main focus is on getting the
Cymer deal done, making sure that from now on the execution is
flawless and seamless, and we have no other plans.”  ASML’s proposed acquisition of Cymer, the Veldhoven,
Netherlands-based manufacturer’s biggest takeover ever, is
intended to speed up development of so-called extreme
ultraviolet, or EUV, lithography. San Diego-based Cymer is a
supplier of light sources used in ASML products.  EUV technology is important for the chipmaking industry to
enable the production of smaller chips while increasing their
capacity and speed for devices such as handsets and tablet
computers. Customers  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and
 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330)  have bought a combined 23
percent stake in ASML for 3.85 billion euros ($4.9 billion) to
help fund EUV development.  ASML expects deliveries of the first 11 EUV systems in 2013
at customers for research and development, and additional orders
for production systems in 2014. ASML has currently received four
commitments and expects another four to eight within the next
six months, Wennink reiterated today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Barcelona via 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  