-- Mason Buys, BNP Sells YPF During the Third Quarter
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-11-16T04:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/mason-largest-buyer-bnp-largest-seller-of-ypf-stock-in-quarter.html
Mason Capital Management LLC was the
biggest buyer of  YPF SA (YPFD)  shares in the third quarter while BNP
Paribas Arbitrage SA and Eton Park Capital Management were the
biggest sellers, according to preliminary data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Mason more than doubled its previous stake to become the
the third-largest institutional investor in  Argentina ’s biggest
energy company. It bought 6.9 million shares and has a 3.15
percent stake.  Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s Grupo Financiero Inbursa
remains YPF’s largest institutional shareholder with a stake of
6.59 percent, followed by Lazard Asset Management LLC with 4.69
percent, the data show. Slim’s financial arm hasn’t yet reported
third-quarter transactions.  YPF’s stock has plunged 71 percent this year, making it the
worst performer among peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  YPF’s market value today is $3.9 billion , the lowest
since the company’s stock went public in 1993.  Mason Chief Financial Officer John Grizzetti, also a
spokesman for the hedge fund, did not reply to a call and an e-
mail seeking comments. Grizzetti filed the information with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday.  The Argentine government seized a 51 percent stake in
Buenos Aires-based YPF from Repsol SA in April.  Highfields Capital Management LP was the second-biggest
buyer in the quarter to become the fifth-largest institutional
investor in the company. It owns a 1.87 percent stake in YPF.  Eton Park Capital Management is the fourth-largest
institutional investor with 1.95 percent. Eton sold 2.3 million
shares in the period. BNP slid to seventh-largest institutional
investor after it sold 5.4 million shares.  BNP didn’t respond to two calls seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  