-- Aussie Falls Versus Peers After Report Shows RBA Sold Currency
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-11-15T07:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/aussie-dollar-weakens-on-israeli-air-strikes-signs-of-slowdown.html
Australia’s dollar declined against
most of its major peers after the nation’s  Reserve Bank  said it
increased sales of the currency last month to a category of
buyers that includes foreign central banks.  Demand for the so-called Aussie was limited after an
Israeli air strike on the Gaza strip and signs of a global
slowdown reduced demand for riskier assets. Australian bonds
rose, sending the benchmark 10-year yield to the lowest level in
almost one month. The Australian and New Zealand dollars rallied
versus the yen after Japan’s opposition leader Shinzo Abe called
for unlimited central bank easing until deflation is defeated in
the world’s third-largest economy.  “There will likely be more chatter that the RBA is perhaps
conducting off-market, central bank-to-central  bank
transactions ,” said Emma Lawson, a Sydney-based foreign-
exchange strategist at National  Australia  Bank Ltd. “The Aussie
is considered to have been strong due to these market
transactions for investors buying our government debt. If it’s
being conducted off-market, then perhaps that takes some
pressure off the upside for the currency.”  Australia’s dollar  slid 0.1 percent to $1.0361 as of 6:03
p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it dropped 0.6 percent. The
Aussie gained 0.5 percent to 83.65 yen. New Zealand’s currency
added 0.2 percent to 81.20 U.S. cents from yesterday. The so-
called kiwi jumped 0.9 percent to 65.58 yen after earlier
falling as much as 0.2 percent.  The RBA sold A$483 million ($500 million) more in local
currency than it bought in October through the so-called other
outright transactions category, the most since June 2009,
according to data released today. It sold a net A$275 million in
the spot foreign exchange market.  Risk Appetite  Demand for higher-yielding assets waned on increasing
geopolitical risk and signs of a global economic slowdown.
Israeli jets struck Gaza yesterday, killing the leader of
Hamas’s military wing.  Gross domestic product  in the 17-member euro area probably
fell for a second-straight quarter in the three months ended in
September, according to the median economist estimate compiled
by  Bloomberg News  before the data today. Obama meets with
congressional leaders including House Speaker  John Boehner 
tomorrow to discuss the U.S. budget.  “The list of potential negatives out there is growing,”
said Robert Rennie currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) 
in Sydney. “The difference between Obama and Boehner is still
very large on the fiscal cliff, we have increasing tensions now
in Gaza and disappointing data out of  Europe . It argues for
lower levels for the Aussie and kiwi.”  Shares Decline  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares slid 0.2 percent
today, poised for a sixth-straight drop.  MSCI’s World Index (MXWO)  sank
1.2 percent yesterday.  Australian  government bonds  rose, with the 10-year yield
declining four basis points, 0.04 percentage point, to 3.02
percent, the lowest since Oct. 16.  Abe, leader of Japan’s  Liberal Democratic Party , reiterated
his call for the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s inflation target to be raised
from the current 1 percent to 3 percent and said the central
bank’s key rate should be lowered to zero or below.  The Australian dollar strengthened 2.5 percent in the past
month, the best performer tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency indexes. New Zealand’s dollar gained 0.4
percent in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  