-- Mayors Lobby Congress to Avoid Budget Effect on Cities
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-11-15T19:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/mayors-lobby-congress-to-avoid-budget-effect-on-cities.html
Big-city mayors warned that allowing
automatic U.S. spending cuts to take effect next year would
jeopardize municipal finances and job-producing water and sewer
projects.  Across-the-board spending cuts of about $110 billion,
equally affecting defense and non-defense programs, would begin
in January if Congress and President  Barack Obama  can’t agree on
a plan late this year to avert them.  The U.S. Conference of Mayors estimates the reductions
would take $242 million from this fiscal year’s $3.3 billion in
community development block grants that mayors said are an
important part of their budgets. Thirteen conference members
visited Washington today to urge lawmakers to reach a deal to
spare such cuts.  “There are so many devastating effects that Baltimore
would face” because “we receive a lot of federal funding,”
Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, the city’s mayor, told reporters.
“The hit on the block grants would have an extremely negative
impact.”  With a jobless rate of more than 10 percent, Baltimore
received almost $18 million for community development in the
fiscal year ending Oct. 1, plus $3 million in a separate
affordable-housing grant, according to the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development.  Also, Baltimore received almost $11 million in grants to
help shelter the homeless and provide rental aid for low-income
people infected with the AIDS virus.  Denver Mayor  Denver Mayor Michael Hancock said that under  federal budget 
cuts, his city would lose almost $800,000 a year in community
development block grant money plus more than $500,000 for job
development programs.  Denver received almost $7 million in block grants, which
can be used for water and sewer projects, other public
improvements and affordable housing.  “We are talking about roads, bridges; we are talking about
people actually going to work” to build them, said Mayor Alvin Brown of Jacksonville,  Florida .  The mayors said they opposed curbs to the  tax exemption  for
municipal bond interest. President Barack Obama has proposed
raising more revenue by capping the muni-bond tax break for high
earners.  Municipal Bonds  Such bonds are a tool to “build our infrastructure,” said
Hancock, a Democrat. Reducing the tax break is “an instant job
killer.”  Hancock cited the $856 million bond sale last month to
finance expansion of the Denver International Airport. “We
could not have sold those bonds had we not had the tool,” he
said.  While Congress argues over how to curb the government’s $16
trillion debt, mayors said they must operate with balanced
budgets.  In Jacksonville, Brown said he overcame an $80 million
shortfall this year and balanced the budget without raising
taxes, and achieved a similar result last year after a $58
million shortfall. A Democrat, Brown is pushing a plan to save
$2.6 billion in pension expenses for retired city employees.  ‘Working to Survive’  Denver has cut $500 million from its budget over the past
five years and, like other cities, has “just been working to
survive” financially, Hancock said. If the federal budget cuts
take effect, “cities across the nation are going to be in some
devastating conditions,” he said.  Automatic defense cuts, which would account for half of the
reductions, are a concern for Brown and Steve Benjamin, the
mayor of Columbia,  South Carolina , where Fort Jackson is
located.  Fort Jackson, the Army’s largest training base, nearby Shaw
Air Force Base and an Air National Guard base are “a primary
driver in our local economic engine,” Benjamin said.  Navy bases in northeast Florida contribute $14 billion to
the region’s economy including $12 billion to Jacksonville’s,
Brown said.  Federal officials’ inability “to articulate exactly where
the cuts will come from” is a great source of anxiety to local
officials, Benjamin said.  Across-the-board reductions would be “a meat-cleaver
approach, which is not thoughtful and not strategic,” Benjamin
said. “Old-school discussion is ‘everyone takes a haircut.’
This is a head cut.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  