-- Citigroup’s Stock Lured Bacon, Ainslie as Pandit Exit Loomed
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-11-15T16:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/bacon-joined-ainslie-in-buying-citigroup-as-pandit-exit-loomed.html
Moore Capital Management LP and
Maverick Capital Management LP bought  Citigroup Inc. (C)  shares as
the bank’s board grew dissatisfied with Chief Executive Officer
 Vikram Pandit ’s performance, eventually ousting him.  Moore Capital, the hedge fund run by billionaire Louis Moore Bacon, bought 5.31 million shares in the quarter ended
Sept. 30, making the lender its biggest U.S. publicly listed
holding, according to a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
filing yesterday. Maverick, the $10 billion firm run by  Lee Ainslie , purchased 2.72 million shares of the New York-based
bank, according to a filing.  The filings show investors placed bets on Citigroup even as
the board’s confidence in Pandit was waning. The firm said Oct.
16 that  Michael Corbat  replaced Pandit and will review the
bank’s businesses before making more management changes.  “There are a lot of pieces to this puzzle that can create
value if you have the right management,” said William B. Smith,
CEO of hedge fund Smith Asset Management, which owns shares of
the bank. “Citigroup is a bloated bureaucracy; radical things
still need to get done.”  Citigroup advanced 1.5 percent to $35.55 at 10:34 a.m. in
New York. The shares have fallen 3.2 percent since Pandit’s
departure and plunged 89 percent during his five years as CEO.
 Shannon Bell , a Citigroup spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the stock-ownership changes.  Caused Setbacks  Corbat, 52, takes over a strategy of cutting jobs and
disposing of unwanted assets, including a minority stake in
Smith Barney. He’ll seek to return more capital to shareholders
after the Federal Reserve blocked the bank’s proposal in March,
and sustain a turnaround at a company that incurred almost $30
billion in losses during the depths of the financial crisis.  The board ousted Pandit after concluding his handling of
operations caused setbacks with regulators and cost credibility
with investors, a person with knowledge of the discussions said
at the time of his departure. Directors had contemplated
replacing Pandit for months as they became increasingly
frustrated with his performance, the person said.  Citigroup posted third-quarter  profit  of $468 million, or
15 cents a share, after analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predicted
a loss. The stock surged 19 percent in the period, the best
performance in the KBW Bank Index of 24 U.S. lenders.  Tepper, Soros  Maverick increased its Citigroup stake to 5.01 million
shares in the third quarter as  Moore Capital , which oversees
$13.5 billion in assets, acquired its entire holding during the
period. Boston-based Adage Capital Management LP purchased 3.62
million shares, and Glenview Capital Management LLC bought 2.71
million, according to filings yesterday from those firms.  The four hedge funds combined added 14.4 million Citigroup
shares, valued at $470 million as of Sept. 30 and representing
about 0.5 percent of the company’s shares outstanding.  Other funds that added to their stakes include  David Tepper ’s Appaloosa Management LP, which bought almost 929,000
Citigroup shares and Soros Fund Management LLC, led by
billionaire  George Soros , which added 1.52 million. Citigroup is
Appaloosa’s third-largest holding by market value after
Powershares QQQ Trust, which tracks the performance of the
Nasdaq 100 Index, and Cupertino, California-based  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
according to a filing.  Bill Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP exited
its Citigroup position by selling 1.1 million shares.  ‘Momentum Trade’  Hedge funds purchased shares of other big U.S. banks during
the quarter, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   Odey Asset Management LLP, the London-based hedge fund
founded by  Crispin Odey , bought 621,000 shares of JPMorgan,
making the New York-based bank its largest holding, according to
a filing. Odey counted Citigroup as its third-largest holding
even after selling 813,000 shares.  Citigroup was Moore Capital’s largest investment at the end
of September and JPMorgan was its second-biggest. The hedge fund
also bought a stake in San Francisco-based Wells Fargo by
purchasing 1.97 million shares and added 5.15 million shares to
its holding in Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America.  “A lot of it is the pure financial-sector momentum
trade,” Smith said. For large hedge funds, “the nice thing
about the banks, at least the big boys, is there is liquidity.
They can get in and get out pretty easily,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  