-- Basel Group to Seek Liquidity Deal Next Month, Ingves Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-11-15T17:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/basel-group-to-seek-liquidity-deal-next-month-ingves-says-1-.html
Global regulators will next month
seek to broker an accord on bank liquidity rules that lenders
and some central banks have warned might stymie economic growth
and hamper monetary policy.  Stefan Ingves, chairman of the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , said the group is aiming to meet its end-of-the-
year deadline for reviewing its planned liquidity coverage
ratio, or LCR, which would force banks to hold enough easy-to-
sell assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze.  The Basel group must reach agreement on a “few outstanding
issues” when it meets in the Swiss city next month, Ingves  said 
in a speech in  Panama  today. “We would be failing in our
responsibilities if we did not push on to finalize these
proposals in the near future.”  The LCR standard, which is scheduled to become binding on
banks in 2015, has been criticized by European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  and  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial
services chief. Other regulators see it as an essential response
to the failure of banks such as Northern Rock Plc, which had to
be nationalized after losing access to short-term funding.  “This is very difficult work given the wide range of
issues we must consider,” said Ingves, who also heads Sweden’s
central bank. The rule has “far-reaching implications.”  Draghi Criticism  The measure “strongly penalizes interbank lending,”
Draghi said in a closed-door session of the European Parliament
in Brussels in September. “Good steps are being undertaken at
the Basel Committee level” to revise the rule.  Ingves today countered criticism of the LCR, saying that
 Sweden ’s example showed that such measures can work.  The country has been forcing its lenders to disclose their
performance against a preliminary version of the liquidity rule
that was published in 2010.  “The Swedish experience with liquidity regulation has been
very positive,” he said. “The results so far are reassuring
and there are no signs that monetary policy operations or the
functioning of the  interbank market  have been affected by the
implementation of the LCR.”  The Basel group’s revisions to the LCR are likely to
include an easing of assumptions about the conditions banks may
face in another credit crisis, people familiar with the talks
have said.  EU Waiting  Jonathan Faull , the EU’s chief official working on
financial regulation, said today that the bloc would wait for
the Basel committee to finalize its rules before writing the LCR
into its laws.  Ingves said the committee’s future work also includes an
overhaul of capital rules for the operational risks banks face,
such as fraud and rogue trading.  It will also review capital rules for banks that
use assessments given by credit-ratings companies to calculate
the reserves they must hold against losses on assets, Ingves
said.  Other work plans include a rethink of capital rules for
securitized debt, and an update of measures to limit how much
business a bank does with a single counterparty, Ingves said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  