-- BASF Turns Driller to Shield Chemical Maker From Shale: Energy
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-11-15T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/basf-turns-driller-to-shield-chemical-maker-from-shale-energy.html
Europe’s largest chemical maker is
expanding oil and natural gas production faster than  BP Plc (BP/) ,
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Total SA. (FP)   BASF SE (BAS) , which agreed to acquire stakes in two Siberian
fields yesterday, expects oil and gas production to increase 3.8
percent annually to about 440,000 barrels a day in the next
three years, a plan that adds output quicker than any of
Europe’s largest energy producers.  Founded 147 years ago as a dye manufacturer, BASF is
 Germany ’s single largest user of natural gas. Chief Executive
Officer Kurt Bock wants control of fuel supply to cut exposure
to commodity price swings and blunt the advantage of U.S. rivals
with access to cheap shale gas. The deal with  Russia ’s  OAO
Gazprom (OGZD)  comes less than a month after a $1.4 billion asset swap
with  Statoil ASA (STL)  to gain stakes in North Sea fields.  “BASF is clearly one of the companies that will provide
Europe with energy in the next years,” said Lars Hettche, an
analyst at Bankhaus Metzler.  Yesterday’s deal will boost BASF’s resources by the
equivalent of 600 million barrels of oil, according to DZ Bank
analyst Peter Spengler, or about nine months of German crude
demand. BASF, which has increased oil and gas production 5
percent a year since 2000, is set to surpass industry stalwarts
such as  Hess Corp. (HES)  and Marathon Oil Corp. as a producer over the
next three years.  Russia is central to BASF’s energy strategy. The world’s
largest oil-and-gas producing country will supply more than half
of the Ludwigshafen, Germany-based company’s fuel when the
fields acquired yesterday come on stream.  Russia Partnership  The partnership was born out of the Russian company’s
desire to sell gas in  Europe  and BASF’s heavy demand on supplies
in a German market that in the 1990s was dominated by Ruhrgas,
later acquired by EON AG.  “It’s clever because they are not competing, but
cooperating,” said Bankhaus Metzler’s Hettche. “I don’t think
that Gazprom would have let BP in because they are a direct
competitor, whereas BASF is simply wanting to play along.”  BASF will become a partner with Gazprom in developing two
blocks in the Achimov deposit in western Siberia, with a 25
percent plus one share stake. Output from those fields, expected
to start in 2016, will be equal to 20 percent of BASF’s
hydrocarbon resource base, according to DZ Bank’s Spengler. BASF
has an option to boost that stake to 50 percent.  “They’ve known they want access to those blocks for some
time,” said Geoff Haire, an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc.
“BASF is the largest single user of natural gas in Germany,
which is why they got into it in the first place.”  Rhine River  The German company, which employs more than 30,000 at its
largest factory on the banks of the Rhine River, is also being
put to the test by the boom in U.S. shale production. A slump in
North American prices has handed competitors  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) 
and DuPont Co. an 8 percent profit advantage because they pay
less for gas, according to Jeremy Redenius, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.  Yesterday’s deal has the added benefit of diversifying
earnings and providing a testing-ground for drilling lubricants
and additives produced by BASF, said HSBC’s Haire.  The resumption of crude production in Libya helped
Wintershall, BASF’s oil and gas production earnings double to
3.12 billion euros ($3.97 billion) in the first nine months of
this year, a counterweight to lower sales of catalysts due to
raw-material costs.  Production at Wintershall is expected to rise to 160
million barrels in 2015, up from an expected 140 million this
year, according to a statement yesterday.  Bock’s Pledge  Expansion at Wintershall coincides with Bock’s pledge to
spend 1.7 billion euros on the research and development of more
cutting-edge materials and chemicals. Bock’s first 1 1/2 years
at the helm of BASF have been dominated by deals related to oil
and gas.  By contrast, Royal DSM NV is among Europe’s chemical makers
exiting lower-margin products. It’s spent about 1.8 billion
euros on purchases to expand in nutrition, and this week
announced the sale of a plastomers joint venture to Borealis, 64
percent owned by Abu Dhabi.  With the Gazprom deal, BASF is moving in the opposite
direction, providing the means to move upstream and boost
production without the risk and expense incurred with developing
prospects from scratch. It’s divesting assets that generated 350
million euros in earnings before interest and tax last year.  Shell Plans  Shell, Europe’s largest oil company, is closest to matching
BASF’s growth. It plans to increase production 25 percent
between 2011 and 2018, an average of 3.6 percent a year. Still,
output has dropped so far this year.  France ’s Total plans to increase output by 3 percent a year
between 2011 and 2015. BP’s oil production has fallen as it sold
assets in the wake of the Macondo oil spill disaster in 2010.
Italy’s Eni SpA targets 3 percent a year growth.  Gazprom gains a 50 percent interest in part of
Wintershall’s North Sea region. Following a year of negotiations
over the value of assets to be swapped, BASF also agreed to cede
its 50 percent share of the Wingas gas trading venture with
Gazprom.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  