-- Bernanke Says Fed Will Do What It Can to Support Housing
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-11-15T20:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/bernanke-says-fed-will-do-what-it-can-to-support-housing.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the Fed will take action to speed growth and a
rebound in a housing market facing obstacles ranging from too-
tight lending rules to racial discrimination.  “We will continue to use the policy tools that we have to
help support economic recovery,” Bernanke said today in a
speech in Atlanta,  Georgia .  Bernanke is pressing on with record easing including a
plan to buy $40 billion a month of mortgage-backed securities,
aiming to spur growth and reduce a 7.9 percent unemployment
rate. He has resorted to unorthodox policies six years after
home prices started a plunge that knocked the economy into the
longest recession since the Great Depression.  Bernanke said while tighter credit standards after a
collapse in the subprime mortgage market were appropriate, “it
seems likely at this point that the pendulum has swung too far
the other way, and that overly tight lending standards may now
be preventing creditworthy borrowers from buying homes, thereby
slowing the revival in housing and impeding the economic
recovery.”  Some members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  said
monthly mortgage bond purchases by the Fed are “likely to
reinforce the nascent recovery in the housing market,”
according to minutes of their Oct. 23-24 meeting released
yesterday. FOMC members “generally agreed” that a housing
recovery is at last under way.  Bernanke endorsed that view in today’s remarks at the
Operation Hope Global Financial Dignity Summit, saying an
industry that was holding the economy back has turned a corner.  Housing Weakness  “Continued weakness in housing -- reflected in falling
prices, low rates of new construction, and historic levels of
foreclosure -- has proved a powerful headwind to recovery,”
Bernanke said. “It is encouraging, therefore, that we are
seeing signs of improvement in the housing market in most parts
of the country.”  Bernanke said housing-finance authorities have taken steps
to “remove barriers to the flow of mortgage credit” and
referred to efforts by the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  and by
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  to clarify rules surrounding
mortgages that go into default.  These steps, the 58-year-old Fed chief said, should
“increase the willingness of lenders to make new loans.”  Economic Recovery  While regulatory policy “will be important for restoring a
fully functioning housing and mortgage market, the strength of
the overall economic recovery is crucial as well,” Bernanke
said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.2 percent to
1,352.52 at 3:01 p.m. in  New York , after falling as much as 0.6
percent. The index closed yesterday at the lowest level since
July.  A number of FOMC officials believe the central bank may
need to expand its monthly purchases of bonds next year after
the expiration of a program to extend the maturities of assets
on its balance sheet known as Operation Twist, according to the
minutes released yesterday.  The Fed’s actions have helped push  mortgage rates  to
historic lows. The average fixed rate on a 30-year mortgage fell
to 3.34 percent today, according to a Freddie Mac index, the
lowest on record.  Those rates have increased affordability and helped bolster
home price. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20
cities rose 2 percent in the year beginning in August 2011, the
biggest annual gain since July 2010.  Supporting Gains  Increasing home prices are rippling through the economy,
supporting gains in  consumer confidence  and spending and
benefitting companies such as Home Depot Inc. and Whirlpool
Corp.  Home Depot, the largest U.S. home-improvement retailer,
posted third-quarter profit this week that topped analysts’
estimates as the recovering housing market prompted customers to
spend more on home repairs.  “Homebuilder sentiment has improved considerably over the
past year, and real estate agents report a substantial rise in
homebuyer traffic,” Bernanke said.  The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding Index, which consists
of 11 home building companies, climbed 65 percent this year as
of yesterday, compared to 7.7 percent for the  S&P 500 Index .  Americans bought new homes in September at the fastest pace
in two years, the Commerce Department reported last month, with
demand up 27.1 percent from a year earlier.  Economy Grew  The economy grew 2 percent in the third quarter, propelled
by gains in  consumer spending , defense outlays and homebuilding.
That was a quickening from the 1.3 percent pace the Commerce
Department reported for the second quarter.  Equities reached a high for the year on Sept. 14 and have
since tumbled 7.5 percent as lawmakers have yet to resolve the
so-called fiscal cliff, a combined $607 billion in automatic
spending cuts and tax increases. The  Congressional Budget Office 
said that failure to address the cliff could nudge the economy
into a recession.  President  Barack Obama  said in a press conference yesterday
that voters sent a “very clear message” on election day this
month that they want both parties to work together to cut the
 budget deficit  with a mix of tax increases for the wealthy and
cuts in spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  