-- Billionaires Soros, Bacon Boost Gold Holdings as Prices Gain
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-11-15T13:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/billionaires-soros-bacon-boost-gold-holdings-as-prices-gain-3-.html
Billionaire investors  George Soros 
and Louis Moore Bacon increased their stakes in exchange-traded
products backed by gold as prices jumped the most in more than
two years.  John Paulson  maintained his holding in the biggest
bullion-backed ETP as Paul Touradji sold his stake.  Soros Fund Management  boosted its investment in the SPDR
Gold Trust, the biggest fund backed by the metal, by 49 percent
to 1.32 million shares as of Sept. 30 from three months earlier,
a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing for third-
quarter holdings showed yesterday. Paulson & Co., the largest
investor in the ETP, kept its stake at 21.8 million shares.
Bacon’s Moore Capital Management LP acquired 1.8 million shares
in  Sprott Physical Gold Trust (PHYS)  last quarter.  Prices rose 11 percent in the third quarter, the most since
2010, as countries from the U.S. to  China  announced measures to
fuel growth, boosting the appeal of gold as an inflation hedge.
Global ETP  holdings  reached a record 2,596.1 metric tons on Nov.
8 amid speculation that stimulus efforts will increase as the
U.S. faces a so-called fiscal cliff of $607 billion in tax gains
and spending cuts next year should Congress fail to act.  “The third quarter was all about buying gold because of
stimulus measures,” Michael Gayed, chief investment strategist
at New York-based Pension Partners LLC, which advises on more
than $150 million in assets, said in a telephone interview.
“Many investors will continue to move to gold because of the
uncertainties surrounding the fiscal cliff.”  Gold Products  While buying shares in the Sprott Physical Gold Trust,
 Moore Capital  cut holdings in the SPDR Gold fund by 20,000
shares to 100,000 last quarter.  Patrick Clifford , a spokesman
for New York-based Moore, declined to comment on the filing.
 Michael Vachon , a spokesman for Soros, did not reply to an e-
mail sent by Bloomberg.  Paulson, who became a billionaire in 2007 by wagering
against the subprime mortgage market, owns about 5 percent of
the SPDR Gold Trust, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
His New York-based firm cut its holding in Gold Fields Ltd. by
64 percent to 6.5 million shares and reduced its stake in
Anglogold Ashanti Ltd. by 13 percent to 28.4 million shares in
the quarter, a filing showed today.  Scout Capital Management LLC boosted holdings in the  SPDR
Gold Trust (GLD)  by 525,000 shares to 1.14 million shares, a filing
showed yesterday.  Touradji Sells  Touradji Capital Management LP, founded by Paul Touradji,
sold its entire stake of 82,000 shares of the SPDR Gold Trust.
Lone Pine Capital LLC, the hedge fund run by Stephen Mandel Jr.,
cut its holding 31 percent to 2.587 million shares, and Third
Point LLC lowered its holding by 10 percent to 130,000 shares.  Gold prices in New York have climbed 9.7 percent this year,
heading for a 12th annual gain. The metal is up more than
sixfold since the end of 2000 as volatility in equity markets
and declining currencies boosted demand for bullion as an
alternative asset. The December-delivery contract traded at
$1,718.70 an ounce by 8:21 a.m. local time on the Comex.  “The next few months will be very good for gold because of
all the uncertainties in the world,” said Tom Winmill, who
helps manage $200 million of assets in Walpole,  New Hampshire ,
for Midas Funds. “Until there is any decision on the fiscal
cliff, people will want to move to a hard asset like gold.”  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F with the SEC within 45 days of
each quarter’s end to show their U.S.-listed stocks, options and
convertible bonds. The filings don’t show non-U.S. securities or
how much cash the firms hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  