-- Blackstone Venture Said to Sell Debt for Extended Stay
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-11-15T23:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/blackstone-venture-said-to-sell-debt-for-extended-stay.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Centerbridge
Partners LP and Paulson & Co. plan to sell $3.5 billion of debt
to refinance their 2010 purchase of Extended Stay Hotels,
enabling them to recoup about half their equity investment,
according to two people with knowledge of the transaction.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  will arrange $2.5
billion of loans using the commercial mortgage-backed securities
market and $1 billion of mezzanine loans, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the details aren’t public.  The investment companies bought Extended Stay at a
bankruptcy auction for $4.2 billion, using $2.7 billion of debt
financing and $1.5 billion of equity, invested equally by the
three firms. Since they bought Extended Stay, when the
commercial real estate market was close to a bottom, its cash
flows have increased more than 40 percent amid a recovery in the
 hotel  business, the people said. The owners invested about $420
million to renovate rooms and consolidate properties under the
Extended Stay brand name.  Armel Leslie, a spokesman for the New York-based hedge fund
run by billionaire  John Paulson , declined to comment.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for New York-based Blackstone, and Susanne
Clark, a spokeswoman for Centerbridge, didn’t immediately
respond to requests for comment. Centerbridge, based in New
York, was co-founded by Mark Gallogly, a former Blackstone
partner.  Blackstone previously bought the lodging company, when it
was known as Extended Stay America, for $3 billion in 2004,
after the 2001 terrorist attacks caused hotel revenue and
property values to tumble. It sold the company for $8 billion in
2007 to investors led by Lightstone Group, then joined
Centerbridge and Paulson to buy it again after the global credit
crisis forced Extended Stay into bankruptcy.  The planned debt sale was reported earlier today by the
Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  