-- Bombardier Postpones $1 Billion Debt Sale After Downgrade
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-11-15T22:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/bombardier-postpones-1-billion-debt-sale-after-downgrade.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , the commercial-
aircraft maker whose credit rating was cut yesterday by Standard
& Poor’s on lower-than-expected cash generation, is delaying a
$1 billion bond offering.  The bond sale was postponed due to market conditions,
according to Isabelle Rondeau, a spokeswoman at the Montreal-
based company. Bombardier had planned to sell eight- and 10-year
senior notes for general corporate purposes, according to a
person familiar with the offering who asked not to be
identified, citing lack of authorization to speak about the
transaction.  “The market conditions were not satisfactory,” Rondeau
said in a telephone interview. She declined to comment on when
the company planned to issue the debt.  Bombardier’s credit  rating  was lowered one step by S&P to
BB, two levels below investment grade, from BB+. The company’s
leading market positions, cost-efficiency and widening array of
products “are partially offset, in our opinion, by the
financing pressure Bombardier’s customers face in the aerospace
and transportation divisions,” increasing leverage and risks
tied to the delayed new CSeries jetliner, S&P said in a report.  The company’s $500 million of 5.75 percent notes due 2022
dropped 2.1 cents on the dollar to 98.5 cents, yielding 5.96
percent at 10:50 a.m. today in New York, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Bombardier’s widely-traded Class B  stock  fell 6.3 percent
to C$2.99 in Toronto trading. Earlier the stock dropped as low
as C$2.97, its lowest intraday level since April 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  