-- Brown’s Tax Boost Mends California Deficits, Analyst Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-11-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/brown-s-tax-boost-mends-california-deficits-analyst-says.html
California’s chronic budget
shortfalls that hobbled the most populous U.S. state for a
decade may give way to surpluses thanks to voter approval of
Governor Jerry Brown’s tax increases, the state’s independent
fiscal analyst said.  Brown and lawmakers will need to fill a $1.9 billion
deficit through June 2014, the  Legislative Analyst’s Office  said
yesterday, down from $13 billion estimated a year ago. If
lawmakers can resist more spending and the economy continues to
improve, the state could see a surplus of $1 billion by 2015 and
$9 billion by 2018, the analyst’s office said.  Voters in California, which hasn’t had a budget surplus in
a dozen years, approved higher sales and income taxes Nov. 6,
the first statewide increase since 2004. Brown pressed for the
higher levies to help erase a $16 billion deficit in the year
that began July 1 and to assist in repaying loans used for the
past 12 years to paper over $213 billion in combined shortfalls.  The new taxes, together with economic recovery and budget
cuts, may spell the “end of a decade of acute state budget
challenges,” Legislative Analyst Mac Taylor said in the report
yesterday. “There is a strong likelihood that the state will
have operating surpluses” if the economy continues to grow and
lawmakers keep spending under control.  Voters agreed to boost the sales levy to 7.5 percent from
7.25 percent, and raised tax rates on incomes starting at
$250,000. Those making $1 million will now pay 13.3 percent, the
most of any state. Brown’s budget office estimated the increases
will raise $8 billion in the year that began July 1 and $6
billion annually before expiring by 2018.  ‘Validates’ Efforts  “This report validates the hard work the state has done to
cut its deficit and balance its budget,” Brown said in a
statement. “ California  is now on the path for a fair and
sustainable budget as long as we continue to exercise fiscal
discipline and pay down debt.”  Standard & Poor’s, which rates the state’s credit A-, six
levels below AAA and lower than any other U.S. state, has said
the tax increase was a positive development.  Jordan Levine, director of economic research at Beacon
Economics LLC in Los Angeles, said the recovery has broadened
out to most sectors of the state’s economy. Housing and
construction are on the rise, as is consumer spending, Levine
said, and he projects the state’s  unemployment  rate will fall
below 10 percent from the current 10.2 percent.  “We do see the economy continuing to grow,” Levine said
in an interview. “In fact, we are forecasting it to pick up a
little bit of steam as we get into 2013 and 2014.”  Fiscal Cliff  Taylor said his projections assume U.S. lawmakers will find
a way to avoid driving the U.S. economy off the “fiscal cliff”
of scheduled tax increases and federal spending cuts set to take
effect next year.  California’s deficit was narrowed by an accounting method
that found $1.4 billion from last fiscal year that had been
unaccounted for, Taylor said. Without that, the latest shortfall
would be larger.  The state’s finances have been helped by a decision
California lawmakers made in 2009 to eliminate automatic cost-
of-living increases and inflation adjustments that were built
into most state programs.  California voters gave Democrats two-thirds majorities in
both chambers of the Legislature. In the deciding race in Orange
County, Sharon Quirk-Silva unseated incumbent Republican
Assemblyman Chris Norby, 51 percent to 49 percent, the
Associated Press said yesterday. Such supermajorities offer
Democrats veto-proof power to raise taxes or increase spending.
The last time one party held such majorities in both chambers
was in 1933.  Pay Debt  “While there is not a near-term surplus, the analysts
project a $9 billion budget surplus by 2018,” Senate President
Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from Sacramento, said in a
statement. “This opens opportunities to plan for the future
with three important goals: pay down debt, set aside resources
for unforeseen economic downturns, and reinvest in public and
higher education, health and human services, and public
safety.”  The latest shortfall includes a $943 million deficit in the
current fiscal year and $936 million more in the year beginning
July 1. Brown must make his budget proposal for the coming year
to the Legislature in January.  California may collect about $626 million less than
projected in tax revenue from  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public
offering, after share prices of the social media company
declined by almost half since May, according to the analyst’s
report. Still, income taxes not from initial public offerings
are expected to rise $413 million above estimates, offsetting
the Facebook shortfall, according to the report.  Redevelopment Savings  State spending will exceed budgeted levels by $2.7 billion
for the current fiscal year, mostly because half the benefits of
abolishing local redevelopment agencies probably won’t
materialize, the analyst said.  California also may not be able to use $400 million from
the auction of carbon allowances to offset general-fund spending
as planned, the analyst’s office said. The California Air
Resources Board yesterday sold the first greenhouse-gas
allowances, brushing aside a lawsuit challenging an auction
intended to start the largest U.S. cap-and-trade program.  “We still have a lot of catching up to do,” Taylor said  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  