-- Bulgaria Signs South Stream, Gas Supply Accords With Russia
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-11-15T15:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/bulgaria-signs-south-stream-gas-supply-accords-with-russia-1-.html
Bulgaria  signed an investment
agreement with  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , Russia’s gas export monopoly, to
build the South Stream pipeline, which will ship natural gas
across the  Black Sea  and Bulgaria to Europe.  Bulgaria also signed a new long-term gas-supply contract,
which involves a 20 percent price cut from Jan. 1, Prime
Minister Boyko Borissov told reporters in Sofia today.  Gazprom kept the link between oil and gas prices in the
contract and will ship 2.9 billion cubic meters of the fuel a
year, the Moscow-based company said in a statement today.
Bulgaria has an 80 percent take-or-pay obligation, Energy and
Economy Minister Delyan Dobreb said at the news conference.  “We’ve agreed on very preferential prices for Bulgaria,”
Gazprom Chief Executive Officer Alexey Miller told reporters.
“With South Stream, Bulgaria becomes the biggest transit
country for Russian gas in  Europe .”  The Bulgarian section of the pipeline, which will run
through Serbia, Hungary, Slovenia and northern Italy with
offshoots potentially to  Greece ,  Croatia , Montenegro and
Macedonia, will be 540 kilometers (335 miles) long and will cost
3.3 billion euros ($4.2 billion), according to the government.  Gazprom will lend to the Bulgarian Energy Holding, which
groups state utilities, an undisclosed amount of funds needed to
cover its participation in the South Stream Bulgaria AD joint
venture that will build the Bulgarian section of the pipeline,
according to the agreement. The funds will be repaid by the
venture’s dividends. The joint pipeline company will have a
planned rate of return of 8 percent.  Underwater Construction  South Stream will carry 63 billion cubic meters of gas by
2019, when all four lines are operational, according to Gazprom.
It will start underwater construction of the pipeline on Dec. 7,
which will run from  Russia  along the Black Sea floor to Bulgaria
and will finish the first line, which will be able to handle
15.8 billion cubic meters of a year, at the end of 2015, Miller
said.  The link competes with the OMV AG-led Nabucco pipeline that
would pump Caspian Sea gas to Europe via  Turkey  and Bulgaria.  Gazprom pumps 17.8 billion cubic meters of gas a year to
Bulgaria. The rest goes on to Turkey, Greece and Macedonia under
a 30-year contract signed in 2006. Bulgaria spends as much as
1.4 billion euros a year on gas imports.  The Russian company is also interested in building a gas-
fired power plant in the Balkan country, Miller said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  