-- Butts, Rubber Ducky, Lime M&M Make You Sad; Tough Boxers
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-11-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/butts-rubber-ducky-lime-m-m-make-you-sad-tough-boxers.html
Gabriel Orozco, born in  Mexico  in
1962, is a treasure hunter who turns the tradition of the
readymade nearly on its head.  The Guggenheim Museum’s sculptural and photographic
installation “Gabriel Orozco: Asterisms” comprises more than
2,000 items of detritus the artist scavenged from two sites.
Here the found object is closer to the visual poetry of Joseph Cornell than the predictable gamesmanship of Duchamp.  This hasn’t usually been the case. In his recent, smug
midcareer retrospective at the  Museum of Modern Art , Orozco
displayed an empty shoebox and hung four plastic yogurt lids,
one per gallery wall.  At the Guggenheim, tiny objects Orozco found on an
AstroTurf playing field near his home in  New York City  are
exhibited in a tabletop vitrine, as if in a jeweler’s case.  Cigarette butts, chewing gum, wadded foil wrappers, twisted
hairpins, zippers, matchsticks, tangled bits of thread and a
single lime-green M&M all take on magical weight and promise.  Arranged on the floor, also in a rectangular grid, are
hundreds of larger bits of worn and weathered debris recovered
from a coastal wildlife reserve in  Baja California , Mexico.  Rubber Ducky  Orozco has collected oars, buoys, bottles, light bulbs,
hardhats, a rubber ducky, a scuba flipper and dozens of
waterlogged rolls of toilet paper that resemble conch shells and
driftwood. Some of the bottles contain rolled-up messages.  Everything on view is grouped systematically by shape,
color, material and texture, to suggest progression, migration,
kinship and evolution.  This is further enhanced in Orozco’s large photographic
grids, in which each object, documented on a white ground, has
been scaled up or down to postcard size.  Orozco’s installation is understated and coldly scientific.
Yet he has lovingly attended to his trove. The overall effect of
its archaeological homogenization is melancholic -- akin to
putting the ruins of our own civilization under the microscope.  “Gabriel Orozco: Asterisms” runs through Jan. 13 at the
Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Ave. Information: +1-212-423-
3500;  http://www.guggenheim.org .  George Bellows  The most famous paintings by the American artist George Bellows (1882-1925), such as the ringside boxing scenes “Stag at
Sharkey’s” (1909) and “Dempsey and Firpo” (1924), may be among
the least compelling works in the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art’s
enlightening Bellows retrospective.  They’re both good paintings. But we’ve seen these iconic
pictures so often in reproduction that their sinewy, muscled
athleticism and their expressive, cigar-chewing cronies suggest
illustrative period caricature more than dynamic realism.  These two paintings bookend -- and strong-arm -- the Met’s
show of some 120 pictures, in which we get the full range of
Bellows’s oeuvre, from satirical to tender. Here are portraits,
seascapes, landscapes, city scenes, views of Coney Island and
politically charged images of  New York  City slums, election
scenes and racially motivated killings.  Dark Urgency  Bellows had many influences. He quotes Velazquez, Manet,
Courbet and Titian. In the portraits of friends and family, his
dark urgency, nearer to that of Blake and Goya than John Singer Sargent, probes deeper than Sargent’s florid fascination with
Edwardian surfaces.  Bellows’s drawings and prints are forceful, at times so
thick with people and activity that they take on Dickensian
magnitude. But sometimes, as in his densely packed urban series
“Cliff Dwellers” (1913), Bellows seems to have lost steam. The works
on paper are exciting, but the canvas is lackluster.  The show could have been better edited. Its mediocre
pictures, weakened by flaccid drawing and strident or muddy
color, distract from the strongest works, such as his late
landscapes and nudes.  Still, this exhibit proves that Bellows was a more
complicated and greater artist than I imagined. He is grittier,
rougher around the edges, more vulgar than many of his fellow
countrymen.  Whether he is considered a major modern illustrator or a
minor modern painter, Bellows is an American original.  “George Bellows” runs through Feb. 18 at the  Metropolitan
Museum of Art , 1000 Fifth Ave. Information: +1-212-535-7710;
 http://www.metmuseum.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  tech  and  Jason Harper  on
 cars .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in New York, at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 