-- McAlpine May Sue Twitter Users
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-11-15T21:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/mcalpine-may-sue-twitter-users-after-bbc-abuse-settlement-2-.html
The British Broadcasting Corp.
settled with a U.K. politician for 185,000 pounds ($293,000)
plus costs after he was wrongly linked to child sex-abuse
allegations in a news report.  Alistair McAlpine, a former Tory party treasurer, agreed to
the settlement, according to an e-mailed statement from the  BBC .  “The BBC has agreed to terms with Lord McAlpine to settle
his claim of libel against the Corporation,” the company said
in the statement. “The settlement is comprehensive and reflects
the gravity of the allegations that were wrongly made.”  McAlpine said he would also be filing lawsuits against
people who identified him on Twitter Inc. unless they apologize,
he said on the “World at One” radio program today.  A BBC “Newsnight” program earlier this month that aired
false claims about a politician by an abuse victim caused more
legal issues for the license-fee-funded broadcaster as top news
executives have stepped aside and Director General George Entwistle resigned. “Newsnight” looked into abuse at child-
care homes in  Wales  in the 1970s and 1980s, resulting in
McAlpine being identified online as the alleged abuser.  “What we’re basically saying to people is, look, we know -
- in inverted commas -- who you are, we know exactly the extent
of what you’ve done,” Andrew Reid, McAlpine’s lawyer, said.
“And it’s easier to come forward and see us and apologize and
arrange to settle with us because, in the long run, this is the
cheapest and best way to bring this matter to an end.”  ‘Hopeful’  “This is the legacy that sadly the BBC has left me with,”
McAlpine said. “I’m 70 years old,” he said, adding that he has
heart problems.  U.K. media regulator Ofcom said it would start an
investigation into “Newsnight” and commercial broadcaster  ITV
Plc (ITV) ’s “This Morning” program to examine violations of privacy
and unfair treatment.  “This Morning” was criticized after host Phillip
Schofield passed a list of accused pedophiles, which was briefly
visible on camera, to Prime Minister David Cameron on the show
last week. Schofield and the program’s staff have been
disciplined, the channel’s U.K. editor said today.  “It’s all very well Phillip Schofield being the fall guy
for this decision, but one assumes that there must have been
some kind of legal advice that this was appropriate and it must
have been approved at a higher level,” John Whittingdale, the
Conservative lawmaker who chairs Parliament’s media-oversight
committee, told “The World at One.”  ‘Radical Overhaul’  The head of the BBC’s supervisory body has called for a
“radical overhaul” of the 90-year-old media organization that
runs the U.K.’s most-watched TV channels.  The broadcaster is conducting two investigations, one into
the McAlpine “Newsnight” program and another addressing why a
“Newsnight” report investigating sex-abuse claims against
entertainer Jimmy Savile was canceled last year. The inquiries
also will look into the role of executives such as Mark Thompson, Entwistle’s predecessor.  Police arrested an unidentified man in his 60s today in
connection with their investigation around Savile. The Daily
Telegraph and other newspapers identified the man as a former
BBC radio and television presenter, Dave Lee Travis.  Assault Allegations  To date, 450 victims come forward and 200 allegations of
sexual assault have been made, the Metropolitan Police Service
said.  One abuse victim on the “Newsnight” program, Steve
Messham, has apologized to McAlpine, Tory treasurer during
Margaret Thatcher’s leadership, saying he didn’t assault him.
McAlpine criticized the editorial standards of “Newsnight.”  BBC Scotland Director Ken MacQuarrie, who was asked by the
broadcaster’s Executive Board to investigate the circumstances
around the Nov. 2 “Newsnight” story, said “basic journalistic
checks were not completed.”  “Of course they should have called me and I would have
told them exactly what they learned later on -- that it was
complete rubbish,” McAlpine told “The World at One.” “They
could have saved themselves a lot of agonizing and money,
actually, if they’d just made that telephone call.”  Sally Bercow, the wife of the speaker of the House of
Commons, was among the social-media users who linked McAlpine to
the BBC report.  “Why is Lord McAlpine trending? *Innocent face*” -- a
reference to the fact his name was being repeatedly mentioned on
Twitter, she said in a Nov. 4 Twitter post. She has since
apologized.  Sky News television reported that Bercow would be the first
to receive a legal letter from McAlpine’s representatives. Calls
and an e-mail to McAlpine’s lawyer weren’t immediately returned.
Bercow reacted to the report by taking to Twitter again.  “I guess I’d better get some legal advice then,” she said
in a posting. “Still maintain was not a libelous tweet -- just
foolish.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  