-- Canada Home Sales Fall Adds to Market Slowing Evidence
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-11-15T15:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/canada-home-sales-fall-adds-to-market-slowing-evidence.html
Canadian existing home sales slipped
in October from the previous month while prices were little
changed on the year, adding to evidence of a cooling in the
country’s real estate market, a  realtor group  said.  Sales fell 0.1 percent during the month to 36,492 units,
the  Canadian Real Estate Association  said in an e-mailed
statement. Home sales fell 0.8 percent from the same month last
year.  The country’s housing market has been cooling as markets in
British Columbia tumbled from records and policy makers took
measures to tighten mortgage lending amid concern that a bubble
was building in cities such as Toronto. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  toughened rules on government-insured mortgages in July
for the fourth time in four years, while the Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions, the country’s federal
banking regulator, also introduced stricter standards for
mortgage lenders.  “Little has changed since national activity geared down in
the wake of mortgage rules that came into force in July,”
Gregory Klump, the realtor group’s chief economist, said in the
statement.  Monthly sales are down 5.4 percent since June, according to
the association’s data.  The average national price for existing homes was little
changed from a year earlier, and rose 0.1 percent from September
to C$363,299 ($362,900).  The Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp. reported Nov. 8 that
 housing starts  fell 8.9 percent in October. The country’s
central bank forecast  that housing investment, which helped
lead  Canada  out of recession in 2009, will become a drag on
growth next year and in 2014.  The real estate market in Victoria, the capital of British
Columbia, led declines in October with a 26 percent plunge in
home sales, even as other markets in the province such as
 Vancouver  recorded gains. Toronto, the largest market, posted a
1.5 percent rise in sales while Montreal was down 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  