-- Canada September Factory Sales Rise on Planes and Metals
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-11-15T16:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/canada-september-factory-sales-rise-0-4-on-aircraft-and-metals.html
Canadian  factory sales  rose a second
month in September on aerospace gains while most other
industries, including automobiles, declined.  Sales climbed 0.4 percent to C$49.8 billion ($49.7
billion),  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa. Economists
forecast a 0.3 percent increase according to the median of a
Bloomberg  survey  with 18 responses. The agency also lowered its
estimate of August’s gain to 0.9 percent from 1.5 percent.  Factory sales have been rising from a low of C$38.1 billion
set in May 2009 during Canada’s last recession on gains in
automobile, machinery and lumber production geared for shipments
to the U.S. Future demand from Canada’s largest trading partner
is threatened by the potential for $607 billion of U.S. tax
increases and spending cuts due in January, weak  productivity 
growth and a high Canadian dollar.  “The modest increase in volumes points to the challenges
faced by Canada’s manufacturing sector,” said  David Tulk , chief
Canada macro strategist in Toronto at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD
Securities unit. Sales excluding aerospace were “far from
encouraging,” he said.  Aerospace and parts production jumped 43 percent to C$1.76
billion, the fastest increase since a 66.8 percent gain in May.
Excluding aerospace, sales fell 0.7 percent in September. That
industry led a 2.2 percent rise in new orders to C$49.6 billion
and a 0.3 percent decline in unfilled orders to C$62 billion.  Inventories rose 0.2 percent to C$65.2 billion, with the
ratio of factory stockpiles unchanged at 1.31.  Sales Volumes  Excluding price changes, a better indicator of the
industry’s contribution to economic growth, factory sales rose
0.4 percent in September.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  this week delayed plans to
balance the  federal budget  by one year and run larger than
expected deficits as lower commodity prices and slower growth
hamper government revenue.  Today’s factory report suggests third-quarter economic
growth was even slower than the 1 percent annualized pace the
 Bank of Canada  forecast last month,  Krishen Rangasamy , senior
economist at National Bank Financial in  Montreal , wrote in a
note to clients.  “The Canadian shipments report looked good on the surface
but the details were less impressive,” he wrote.  The Canadian dollar added 0.1 percent to C$1.0027 per  U.S.
dollar  at 11:43 a.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys 99.73
U.S. cents.  Pipeline Projects  Sales rose in eight of 21  categories  tracked by Statistics
Canada, accounting for about half of production, including a 3.7
percent gain for primary metals to C$3.86 billion.  Metal is needed for projects such as the C$3 billion oil
pipeline that  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  and a unit of PetroChina Co.
Ltd. have agreed to develop to ship crude from oil-sands
projects in northern Alberta. TransCanada and Phoenix Energy
Holdings Ltd. will each own 50 percent of the proposed Grand
Rapids Pipeline.  Automobile assembly sales fell 3.6 percent to C$4.58
billion in September, while sales from a year earlier rose 18.2
percent.  Factory sales excluding motor vehicles and parts increased
0.9 percent to C$43.3 billion, Statistics Canada said.  From a year earlier, factory sales rose 1.8 percent.
Excluding the impact of price changes, sales rose 4.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  