-- Canada September Manufacturing Sales Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-11-15T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/canada-september-manufacturing-sales-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s manufacturing shipments report for September released
by  Statistics Canada .  Manufacturing sales advanced 0.4% to $49.8 billion in
September. The gain reflected higher production in the aerospace
product and parts industry and increased sales of primary metals.
Excluding the aerospace industry, total manufacturing sales
decreased 0.7%. The increases were partly offset by a decline in
the motor vehicle assembly industry.  Sales rose in 8 of 21 industries, representing just under
half of Canadian manufacturing. Sales of durable goods increased
1.1% to $25.8 billion, while non-durable goods sales decreased
0.4% to $24.0 billion.  Constant dollar sales were up 0.4% in September, indicating
a gain in the volume of manufactured goods sold.  Gains led by the aerospace product and parts industry  In the aerospace product and parts industry, production
increased 43.0% to $1.8 billion. The increase was the largest
since May 2012, when production rose 66.8%. The  aerospace
industry  is one of the more volatile industries in the
manufacturing sector.  Sales in the primary metal industry increased 3.7% to $3.9
billion in September, partly reflecting higher prices.  In the motor vehicle assembly industry, sales declined 3.6%
to $4.6 billion. The decrease offset a portion of the gain in
total manufacturing sales. Notwithstanding the decline in
September, sales in the industry have risen in 12 of the past 15
months. Sales in September 2012 were 18.2% higher than they were
in September 2011.  Manufacturing at a glance: The motor vehicle assembly and motor
vehicle parts industries  Since the start of the economic downturn in late 2008,
manufacturing sales of motor vehicles and parts have gradually
increased. January-to-September 2012 sales of motor vehicles
were $40.4 billion, the highest since the same period in 2007
(data in this section are unadjusted for seasonality). Motor
vehicle parts manufacturers also posted strong gains. January-
to-September sales were $18.1 billion, again the highest level
for the same period since 2007.  The motor vehicle industry has also shown modest gains
relative to other industries in the manufacturing sector. Over
the first nine months of 2012, the share of sales by motor
vehicle manufacturers relative to total manufacturing was 9.1%,
an increase from a low of 6.4% in 2009, but well below the most
recent peak of 15.5% in 1999.  The share by motor vehicle parts manufacturing recovered as
well. To date, parts manufacturing holds a 4.1% share of total
manufacturing activity, up from a low of 3.5% in 2009. This
industry’s share most recently peaked at 6.0% in 1999.  Despite the recent recovery in the value of manufacturing
sales to levels prior to the 2008 downturn, the motor vehicle
and parts industries of 2012 remained well below the
expansionary levels of the late 1990s. Over the past decade, the
Canadian arm of the North American auto sector witnessed the
closure of several assembly plants and auto-part factories, as
the sector continued to restructure in an ever-competitive
marketplace.  Sales rise in three provinces in September  Sales advanced in  Quebec ,  Alberta  and Manitoba in September.  In Quebec, sales rose 4.2% to $11.6 billion. The increase
reflected a strong gain in the aerospace product and parts
industry. Higher sales in the petroleum and coal product
industry and the primary metal industry also contributed to the
provincial advance.  Sales in Alberta increased 1.9% to $6.4 billion, largely as
a result of gains in the petroleum and coal product industry.
Lower sales in the machinery and food industries offset a
portion of the increase.  Manufacturers in Manitoba reported a 3.7% advance to $1.3
billion, reflecting higher sales in the durable goods industries.  Sales declined 0.9% to $23.0 billion in Ontario. The
decrease largely stemmed from lower sales in the motor vehicle
assembly, fabricated metal product, motor vehicle parts, and
primary metal industries. Production in the aerospace product
and parts industry rose 20.1% in September, partially offsetting
these declines.  In Newfoundland and Labrador, sales were down 18.1% to $493
million, reflecting declines in the non-durable goods industries.  Inventories edge upwards  Inventories edged up 0.2% to $65.2 billion in September,
with the machinery and food industries leading the gains.
Machinery inventories rose 2.1% to $7.1 billion, the highest
value on record for the industry. Inventories of machinery have
increased in seven of the past nine months. In the  food industry ,
inventories increased 1.7% to $6.2 billion, reflecting
widespread gains.  Lower inventories in the petroleum and coal product (-4.5%),
the computer and electronic product (-3.1%), and the aerospace
product and parts (-1.9%) industries offset most of the gains.  The inventory-to-sales ratio was unchanged at 1.31 in
September. The inventory-to-sales ratio is a measure of the time,
in months, that would be required to exhaust inventories if
sales were to remain at their current level.  Unfilled orders decrease  Unfilled orders decreased 0.3% to $62.0 billion in
September. A 0.7% decrease in the aerospace product and parts
industry was partly responsible for the decline in total
unfilled orders.  In the machinery industry, unfilled orders declined 2.3% to
$7.7 billion, the fourth consecutive monthly decline. Unfilled
orders reached an all-time peak in May 2012.  An 8.7% advance in the computer and electronic product
industry offset a portion of the declines in unfilled orders.  New orders advanced 2.2% to $49.6 billion. The gain largely
stemmed from higher orders in the aerospace product and parts
industry.  Note to readers  In the petroleum and coal products industry, between April
and June 2012, there were partial shutdowns at several plants
for retooling and maintenance work, resulting in decreases in
reported sales. Production returned to more normal levels by
July and August as the work was completed. However, the reported
sales data received from several refineries were reviewed and
updated, which resulted in revisions to this industry for the
May through August reference months.  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference
month. Results for the four previous months have been revised
based on updated respondent data.  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted and are
expressed in current dollars unless otherwise specified. For
more information on seasonal adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment
and identifying economic trends
( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc-cel?catno=11-010 -
X201000311141&amp;lang=fra) .  Non-durable goods industries include food, beverage and
tobacco products, textile mills, textile product mills, clothing,
leather and allied products, paper, printing and related support
activities, petroleum and coal products, chemicals, and plastics
and rubber products.  Durable goods industries include wood products, non-
metallic mineral products, primary metal, fabricated metal
products, machinery, computer and electronic products,
electrical equipment, appliances and components, transportation
equipment, furniture and related products and miscellaneous
manufacturing.  Production-based industries  For the aerospace industry and shipbuilding industries, the
value of production is used instead of sales of goods
manufactured. This value is calculated by adjusting monthly
sales of goods manufactured by the monthly change in inventories
of goods in process and finished products manufactured.  Unfilled orders are a stock of orders that will contribute
to future sales assuming that the orders are not cancelled.  New orders are those received whether sold in the current
month or not. New orders are measured as the sum of sales for
the current month plus the change in unfilled orders from the
previous month to the current month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  