-- McDonald’s Replaces its U.S. Chief Fields After Sales Decline
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-11-15T21:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/mcdonald-s-says-jeff-stratton-to-succeed-fields-as-usa-president.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s
largest restaurant company by sales, replaced the president of
its U.S. division amid falling same-store sales.  Jan Fields, once considered a potential chief executive, is
leaving after spending 35 of her 57 years at McDonald’s. Jeff Stratton, 57, now global chief restaurant officer, takes
responsibility for the division’s 14,000 locations from Fields
on Dec. 1, the  Oak Brook , Illinois-based company said today in a
statement.  Fields’s abrupt departure comes as McDonald’s struggles in
its home market, which generates almost a third of global
revenue. Last month sales at U.S. restaurants sank 2.2 percent,
driving the first monthly worldwide sales drop in nine years.
Fields has tried to attract more diners as rivals step up
promotions and introduce new menu items. McDonald’s hasn’t had a
big hit since McCafe smoothies and frappes debuted in 2010.  Fields’s departure may be linked to  Don Thompson ’s
ascension as CEO in July, said  John Gordon , the principal at
restaurant adviser Pacific Management Consulting Group in  San
Diego . “For a company as inbred as McDonald’s, the changeover
of CEOs is a big deal.”  Given Thompson’s engineering background, he may be more
involved in the details, he said. Jim Skinner, the previous
McDonald’s CEO, “may have been a little more hands off.”  Burger King  As McDonald’s faltered,  Burger King Worldwide Inc. (BKW)  stepped
up its game by selling its own versions of McDonald’s favorites
-- smoothies, salads, snack wraps and soft-serve ice cream. The
Miami-based chain has even introduced gingerbread flavored
shakes and sundaes for the holidays.  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) ’s Taco
Bell restaurant has recently started selling Doritos Locos tacos
and more expensive items under its Cantina Bell line, which are
expected to help 2013 same-stores sales, Chief Financial Officer
Pat Grismer said in October.  “McDonald’s is in a little bit of a new product lull,”
Gordon said. “Everybody is kind of nipping at their heels.”  Fields was promoted to president of the U.S. division from
operations chief in January 2010. During her tenure she called
for improved food and product safety, posted calorie counts on
menu boards, revamped Happy Meals for kids and tested healthier
items, such as egg-white breakfast sandwiches. McDonald’s also
began running ads touting the provenance of its beef and
potatoes.  Fundamental Shift  “Our ultimate success will require a fundamental shift in
how we approach brand trust and how we incorporate these efforts
in to everything we do,” Fields wrote in an e-mail to store
owners last year.  Fields earned $2.15 million last year at McDonald’s, which
included a base salary of about $593,000. In 2010, she also made
about $2.15 million.  Stratton’s career at McDonald’s spans more than 40 years.
He started as a restaurant crew member in  Detroit  and became
president of the company’s west division in 2001. As president
of McDonald’s USA, he will report to Chief Operating Officer Tim Fenton.  U.S. revenue growth has for the past two years lagged that
of its international segments. In 2011, domestic revenue
increased 5.1 percent, compared with 14 percent in  Europe  and 19
percent in Asia Pacific, the Middle East and  Africa , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The obvious difference between now and 12 or 15 months
ago is the U.S. business is a lot less dominant,” Sara Senatore, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New
York, said today in a telephone interview. “The U.S. has to
work in order for McDonald’s to work because it is still the
single biggest contributor to the profit pool.”  McDonald’s fell 0.7 percent to $84.05 at the close in  New
York . The  shares  have slid 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  