-- Centrica Says U.K. Domestic Gas Demand Rose on Cold Weather
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-11-15T12:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/centrica-says-2012-earnings-growth-in-line-with-expectations.html
Centrica Plc (CNA) , the U.K.’s largest
household energy supplier, said domestic gas demand climbed 9
percent in the first 10 months of the year due to colder weather
while power consumption fell.  “This reflects colder than normal weather in the year to
date following an unusually warm 2011, but also underlying
reductions in demand due to energy efficiency measures
undertaken by customers,” the company said.  Full-year earnings will be in line with market
expectations, the Windsor, England-based utility said today in a
statement.  The owner of British Gas is forecast to report adjusted
profit of 1.39 billion pounds ($2.2 billion) this year,
according to the  median estimate  of 14 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. That would be 5 percent higher than in 2011.  Centrica said market conditions for operating gas-fired
power plants remain challenging because of low wholesale power
prices relative to fuel costs. The British Gas division lost
43,000 business customers since the end of June due to the weak
economy, according to Centrica.  Centrica’s British Gas will increase household gas and
power charges by an average of 6 percent tomorrow, adding 1.50
pounds a week to bills. SSE Plc, which yesterday said first-half
profit climbed 38 percent, along with RWE Npower Plc and EDF
Energy Plc also increased prices, bringing them under fire from
consumer groups and Prime Minister David Cameron’s government.  Huge Profits  “People will not understand how the energy giants can get
away with inflation-busting price rises this winter when they
are already making huge profits,” Caroline Flint, spokeswoman
on energy for the opposition Labour Party, said today in a
statement. Centrica supplies 15.8 million U.K. households.  Centrica, like SSE yesterday, said it faces higher costs
from implementing government measures to reduce emissions and
from upgrades to gas and electricity grids.  “These costs, which are out of our control, have added
around 50 pounds to the cost of supplying the average
household,” the company said.  Centrica also said it was on track for “double digit
profit growth” in its U.K. residential services business.
Centrica’s nuclear output rose 5.3 percent from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  