-- CFO Thanks Obama as Power Grid Debuts Dollar Bonds: India Credit
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2012-11-15T06:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/cfo-thanks-obama-as-power-grid-debuts-dollar-bonds-india-credit.html
The treasurer of  Power Grid Corp. of
India Ltd. , selling dollar bonds for the first time, says U.S.
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election will sustain a rally that
cut borrowing costs to a 17-month low.  The country’s largest transmission provider expects to
price at about 250 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, or 40 basis points less than  Bharat Petroleum Corp. (BPCL) 
paid in the latest Indian offering.  Average premiums  for the
nation’s dollar debt tightened 48 basis points to 372 this
quarter and reached the lowest since May 2011, HSBC Holdings Plc
data show. Global corporate spreads fell 14 basis points to 158,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  “We will be able to do much better than the last issue as
there is an assurance that quantitative easing will continue,”
Finance Director R.T. Agarwal, 56, said in a telephone interview
from New Delhi on Nov. 7. “The flow of funds to  emerging
markets  will continue.”  Obama’s win over  Mitt Romney  helps ensure that Ben S.
Bernanke will stay chairman of the Federal Reserve and bolster
buying of bonds to stimulate the global economy. Indian company
international note sales surged to an all-time high of $5.13
billion in the third quarter, as monetary easing drove flows
into emerging-market debt funds toward a record this year.  Worst Blackout  The company is raising money as it plans 1 trillion rupees
($18.2 billion) of spending to upgrade its network after  India ’s
power grid collapsed in July, the world’s worst blackout. The
electricity transmitter, based on Gurgaon, near the capital New
Delhi, expects to sell the 10-year notes by Dec. 15, Agarwal
said. It hired Standard Chartered Plc, Barclays Plc and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc to arrange the sale, a person
familiar with the matter said Nov 5.  “Power Grid’s issue should be received well among
investors and can make the road clear for other issuers,”
Walter Rossini, who manages about $200 million in Indian assets
at Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA in Milan, said in a telephone
interview on Nov. 7. “The spread narrowing shows the positivity
of investors for paper of Indian companies.”  Money flowing into emerging-market debt funds increased
more than $600 million in the week ended Nov. 7, on track for a
record year, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
research firm EPFR Global. The Fed announced a third round of
quantitative easing on Sept. 13, while European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi said last week that the bank stands ready
to start buying bonds.  Bharat Petroleum  Bharat Petroleum’s $500 million offering brought sales by
Indian companies to $9.39 billion this year, the most in data
compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1999.  The company sold its first dollar notes at a coupon of
4.625 percent. The securities traded at a premium of 294 basis
points, or 2.94 percentage points, more than similar-maturity
Treasuries today, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  State Bank of India (SBIN)  and Export-Import Bank of India
reopened the overseas bond market for the country’s companies,
marketing a combined $1.75 billion of securities in late July,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Companies have issued
another $1.74 billion since Sept. 30.  Diwali Festival  Elsewhere in India’s markets, yields on the government’s
benchmark 8.15 percent bond fell three basis points to 8.19
percent as of 11:27 a.m. in Mumbai, the biggest decline since
Sept. 5, according to the central bank’s trading system. The
country’s markets were closed Nov. 13 and yesterday for Diwali,
the festival of lights and the start of the Hindu new year.  The yield  spread  between 10-year Indian and U.S. sovereign
debt fell one basis point from a two-month high to 660 basis
points today, the data show.  Rupee-denominated bonds returned 8.48 percent this year,
the second-best performance among 10 Asian markets after
 Indonesia ’s 11.17 percent, according to indexes compiled by
HSBC. The rupee weakened 0.1 percent to 54.9450 per dollar Nov.
12, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Credit-default swaps to insure against non-payment by seven
Indian companies declined 167 basis points this year to 294 in
 New York  Nov. 13, according to data provider CMA. The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to
adhere to debt agreements.  Market Revives  India Infrastructure Finance Co., a state-owned transport
lender, plans to raise 40 billion rupees selling 25-year and 30-
year bonds this month, Chairman S.K. Goel said in a phone
interview from New Delhi Nov. 1. The company plans to raise as
much as $2 billion from overseas debt markets as early as
February, Goel said.  Tata Power Co., India’s largest private utility, is
preparing an offering of 10-year rupee-denominated notes, a
person familiar with the matter said Oct. 31, asking not to be
identified because the terms aren’t set.  “Dollar bond issuance in markets like India revived after
central banks across the world announced stimulus to boost their
economies,” said Hemant Dharnidharka, head of credit research
at SJS Markets Ltd. in Bangalore. “The stimulus created demand
for investments, while supply of strong paper was amiss, causing
spreads to shrink in a very short period.”  Average dollar borrowing costs for Indian companies  fell  to
4.28 percent Nov. 12, the lowest since October 2010, as monetary
authorities including the People’s Bank of  China  cut benchmark
interest rates, while the Fed, the ECB, the Bank of England and
the  Bank of Japan (8301)  expanded asset-purchase programs.  “Investors are looking at the emerging-market curve
positively after the stimulus, and Indian paper is always
popular,” said Raj Kothari, a fixed-income trader in  London  at
Sun Global Investment Ltd. It invested in the Bharat Petroleum
offering and will consider buying Power Grid notes, he said.
“We will enjoy the rally in bond markets and build new
positions at the start of the New Year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  