-- CFTC to Appeal Ruling Rejecting Dodd-Frank Trading Limits
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-15T21:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/cftc-to-appeal-ruling-rejecting-dodd-frank-trading-limits.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission will appeal a judge’s ruling that rejected efforts to
curb speculative derivatives trading after the 2008 financial
crisis.  The commission filed a notice of appeal today in federal
court in Washington, seeking to ask a three-judge panel to
reverse a ruling by U.S. District Judge Robert Wilkins that said
the CFTC failed to assess whether limiting the number of
contracts a trader can have in oil, natural gas or other
commodities was necessary and appropriate.  “The rule addresses Congress’s concern that that no single
trader be permitted to obtain too large a share of the market,
and that derivatives markets remain fair and competitive,” CFTC
Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in a statement today. “I believe it
is critically important that these position limits be
established as Congress required.”  The decision, which blocked rules scheduled to take effect
Oct. 12, was a victory for two Wall Street groups that
challenged the constraints imposed under the 2010 Dodd-Frank
Act. The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
and International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc., in one
of the financial industry’s highest-profile efforts to weaken
Dodd-Frank, sued in two federal courts in Washington in
December.  Credit Crisis  The case is one of several brought by the financial
industry as it pushes back against tighter regulations passed
after the 2008 credit crisis. On Nov. 8,  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the
world’s largest futures market, sued the commission challenging
cleared-swaps reporting requirements imposed under Dodd-Frank.  The CFTC voted 3-2 to appeal the speculation limits ruling,
according to  Steve Adamske , the agency’s spokesman.  “Regrettably, instead of taking the opportunity to revise
its flawed reading of the statute, the commission has decided to
double down on its no-justification-needed stance by appealing
the district court’s ruling,”  Scott O’Malia , one of two
Republicans on the commission, said in a dissent released today.  The commission estimated that the limits would affect 85
energy trading firms, 12 metals traders and 84 traders of
certain agricultural contracts.  Commodity Futures  The limits applied to 28 physical commodity futures and
their financially equivalent swaps including contracts for corn,
wheat, soybeans, oats, cotton, oil, heating oil, gasoline,
cocoa, milk, sugar, silver, palladium and platinum.  The rule called for traders to aggregate their positions, a
change that may have affected large firms with multiple
strategies. It also would have tightened an exemption allowing
so-called bona fide hedgers to exceed the caps.  “Our appeal should also send a message that the largest
speculators in the world can’t litigate regulators to death,”
said  Bart Chilton , one of three Democrats on the CFTC and a
supporter of the trading curbs. “Your deep pockets can’t
protect you from what the law clearly states.”  The rule is among the most controversial provisions of
Dodd-Frank, and spurred more than 13,000 public comments to the
CFTC from supporters including  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and
opponents such as  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  The agency voted 3-2 at an Oct.
18, 2011, meeting to approve the final regulation, with its two
Republican commissioners voting in opposition.  The associations that sued represent  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and other banks and
energy-trading firms.  The case is International Swaps and Derivatives Association
v. U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 11-02146, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  