-- Charterhouse Said to Seek 2 Billion-Euro Staple for Ista
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2012-11-15T15:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/charterhouse-said-to-seek-2-billion-euro-staple-for-ista.html
Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP, a
London-based buyout firm, is seeking financing of more than 2
billion euros ($2.5 billion) for potential buyers of German
energy-metering business Ista International GmbH, according to
people familiar with the offer.  Banks are offering so-called staple financing of about 7
times Ista’s estimated earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization of about 315 million euros, said
three of the people, who asked not to be identified as talks are
private. Private-equity firms often arrange staple financing to
support a sale, as it shows other buyout firms an estimate of
how much debt the deal can draw and the return they can achieve.  Charterhouse plans to kick off the Ista sale in the first
half and will seek more than 3 billion euros, the people said.
The banks offering the most attractive staple financing will
probably get the advisory mandate, which could be awarded by the
end of this year, the people said. Some of the banks approached
for staple financing have offered put up the full amount, one
person said.  Ista, based in Essen,  Germany , provides electricity, water,
heat and gas-meter reading services and hardware to property
managers, home owners and utilities in 25 countries. The company
may benefit from tougher European Union rules that require
energy distributors to save 1.5 percent of their sale volumes
annually, as part of efforts to meet the EU’s target of 20
percent energy savings by 2020.  Large Transaction  Charterhouse declined to make officials available for
comment. A CVC Capital Partners Ltd. spokeswoman declined to
comment. An Ista spokesman couldn’t be immediately reached for
comment.  Ista could be one of the largest private-equity asset
transactions in Germany next year. Springer Science & Business
Media, the German academic publisher being sold by EQT Partners
AB and state owner, may fetch between 3 billion euros and 4
billion euros, people familiar with the sale said last month.  Charterhouse bought Ista from CVC Capital Partners Ltd. for
2.4 billion euros in 2007. CVC re-invested part of the proceeds
to buy a stake in Ista.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Deutsche
Bank AG advised CVC on the sale at the time, which may make them
well positioned to win the M&A mandate, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  