-- Chavez’s Political Agenda Seen Delaying Venezuela Devaluation
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-11-15T19:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/chavez-s-political-agenda-seen-delaying-venezuela-devaluation.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ’s
political agenda could delay a  currency devaluation  expected by
investors to at least early next year as the government tries to
consolidate power in regional elections in December.  The economy is always secondary to politics in the South
American country and gubernatorial elections set for Dec. 16
will be the government’s near-term priority,  Siobhan Morden , the
head of Latin America fixed-income strategy at Jefferies Group
Inc., said today in a note to clients. The earliest window for a
devaluation would be in the first quarter next year, she said.  “The ultimate timing is political,” Morden said today in
an e-mailed response to questions. “The election agenda is
still their dominant priority,” and they don’t want a
devaluation pushing up inflation now.  A decline in the supply of dollars to the central bank
currency market is fueling speculation that  Venezuela  has to
devalue the bolivar to boost oil revenue and help close a fiscal
deficit. Increased spending ahead of last month’s election will
push Venezuela’s fiscal shortfall to about 7.8 percent of gross
domestic product this year, according to  Francisco Rodriguez ,
senior Andean economist at Bank of America Corp.  The government may opt in the “near term” to issue
dollar-denominated bonds to satisfy importers’ demand for
foreign currency because it won’t have a political cost, Morden
said.  Succession Rules  “Devaluation is costly in political terms for the higher
inflation,” Morden said. “Around 80 percent of the consumer
price basket is dependent upon imports.”  Chavez, who in June 2011 said he had cancer, could delay a
devaluation well beyond the local election if he decides to hold
a referendum next year on a constitutional change that would
amend succession rules, Barclays Plc said in a note to clients
yesterday.  Under Venezuela’s existing law, if Chavez is too ill to
serve during the first four years of his term, the vice
president assumes the presidency for 30 days while elections are
held. Chavez may want to change that to allow the vice president
to see out his term, Barclays said.  “If the government implements this modification of the
constitution, it could delay - or at least minimize - the
expected FX and fiscal adjustment,” Barclays analysts Alejandro Arreaza and Alejandro Grisanti said in the report.  While Chavez said in June that he was completely recovered
from cancer after three operations, he limited his public
appearances during the election campaign, leading Barclays and
Goldman Sachs & Co. to speculate that his health may not hold up
for another six years.  Political Damage  The government may opt to lessen the political damage of a
devaluation by only adjusting the  exchange rate  on the central
bank-administered Sitme currency market, Barclays said.  The system allows importers to purchase dollar-denominated
bonds at a fixed rate of 5.3 bolivars per dollar, which they can
sell for dollars in the secondary market. The government-run
Foreign Exchange Board, known as Cadivi, sells dollars to
Venezuelans at 4.3 bolivars for essential items such as
medicine.  Changing just the Sitme rate without adjusting the official
Cadivi rate would only partly address the government’s fiscal
deficit, Arreaza said. The government plans to raise spending 33
percent next year, Finance Minister  Jorge Giordani  said Oct. 23.  Companies and investors that are unable to get dollars from
the government through Cadivi or Sitme turn to an unregulated
market that trades at over three times the official rate.  The currency has weakened 37 percent this year to 13.69
bolivars per dollar in the unregulated market after trading at
about 8 bolivars per dollar over the past two years, according
to the blog Lechuga Verde, or Green Lettuce, which cites
traders.  The Bottom Line  The central bank is selling fewer dollars on the Sitme to
limit its losses as the gap between the official and black
market hits a record, said a government official with direct
knowledge of the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity
because no final decision has been made.  The person declined to provide additional details other
than saying scrapping the Sitme was a possibility.  “The bottom line for bond markets is devaluation itself is
fiscally positive for the government,” Ben Ramsey, an analyst
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York , wrote in research note
yesterday. “A correction via a formal devaluation seems
inevitable. In terms of timing, we would be surprised to see any
formal measures taken before December 16 gubernatorial
elections.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 