-- Chile Beats Development Goal as Growth Defies World Slump
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-11-15T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/chile-s-development-goal-in-reach-as-growth-defies-world-slump.html
Chile  is on track to achieve
developed-nation status ahead of target as growth in the world’s
top copper producer exceeds analyst forecasts, Finance Minister
Felipe Larrain said.  The nation will become the first in  South America  to reach
the landmark a year before President Sebastian Pinera’s goal of
2018 if growth sustains this year’s pace of above 5 percent, the
minister said in an interview yesterday. Per-capita gross
domestic product must reach $22,000 a year on purchasing power
parity, up from today’s level of almost $19,000, to meet the
target, he said.  Chile’s economy was one of the 10 fastest-growing in the
world for the first half of this year. The economy in 2012 
will expand “slightly” more than 5 percent, said Larrain.
Falling unemployment, rising wages and growing investment are
driving expansion, even as the Euro regions struggles to resume
growth and the so-called fiscal cliff threatens to tip the U.S.
into recession, he said.  “We’re are not bullet-proof; we are not immune from what
happens to the world economy,” Larrain, 54, said from his
offices in Santiago. “We are seeing an effect in the price of
copper and in exports. The fact is that the strength of the
Chilean economy has other sources and engines of growth that are
pushing us.”  Chile’s GDP climbed 6 percent last year and will increase 5
percent in 2012, more than doubling average growth for the
world, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Latin
America ’s economy will grow 2.9 percent this year, according to
the poll.  Little Threat  Unemployment fell to 6.5 percent in the third quarter from
7.4 percent the year earlier, while investment growth
accelerated to 8 percent in the second quarter, according to
government and central bank data.  “Chile is rapidly moving toward becoming a developed
country based on tremendous growth in the economy and the labor
market,” Cesar Perez-Novoa, co-head of research at BTG Pactual,
said by phone from Santiago yesterday. “Still there needs to be
improvement in infrastructure, which could accelerate the pace
of this goal, and balance out health care and education.”  Chile has the highest level of  income inequality  among the
34 members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.  Its Gini coefficient, an index of the  income gap  where 0
represents complete equality and 1 complete inequality, is 0.497
compared with 0.476 in  Mexico  and 0.378 in the U.S., according
to the Paris-based organization.  ‘Structural Change’  Inequality has helped fuel protests, including a student
movement for lower cost schooling that has raged for over a
year.  While the government expects the price of copper, which
accounts for more than half of Chile’s exports, to fall 12
percent this year from 2011, it is unlikely to derail the
economy, Larrain said. The metal will average $3.54 a pound this
year, compared with $1.79 in the decade through December 2009.  “There has been a dramatic change, a structural change, in
the copper market,” Larrain said. “I don’t believe we will see
copper prices going back to $2, $2.5. That would happen in the
very worst part of the cycle, but not as a structural issue.”  Moreover, the government has a contingency plan in place
that would entail tapping its $15 billion sovereign wealth fund
to stimulate investment and employment if the global slowdown
hits the country harder.  Net Creditor  Chile is the only country in Latin America that is a net
creditor and posted a fiscal surplus equivalent to 1.4 percent
of GDP last year.  The peso yesterday fell to its lowest level in 16 weeks on
concern global economic weakness may sap demand for the
country’s key export, copper.  The currency depreciated 0.2 percent to 484.78 per
dollar at the close in Santiago, the weakest since July 26.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own Chilean government
dollar bonds instead of Treasuries rose three basis points to
142 basis points yesterday, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Chile’s benchmark stock index, the  IPSA Index (IPSA) , has gained
0.2 percent this year, closing at 4187.73 yesterday.  Year-End Liquidity  The government stands ready to join the central bank in
providing extra liquidity to the market as it did in December of
last year, Larrain said.  The central bank said Nov. 8 it would allow banks to pawn
peso bonds in return for cash, so-called repo operations, once a
week until Dec. 18. The government is weighing up whether to
repeat last year’s auctions of dollar deposits, he said. It’s
not clear as yet whether the measure is necessary, he added.  “It all depends on the market,” said Larrain. “If we see
an episode of drying liquidity, we will be prepared to do the
same as we did last year. So far we haven’t seen that.”  Liquidity often falls at the end of the year in Chile as
companies seek cash to bolster balance sheets, withdrawing
dollars and pesos from the short-term debt funds that lend to
the banks.  The spread between 30-day interbank loans and the central
bank’s benchmark rate fell two basis points to 1.03 percentage
point yesterday after the central bank the day before loaned
$177 million through its new repo window. That spread reached as
high as 2.39 percentage points in December last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 