-- China’s Stocks Slump as New Leaders Announced
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-15T08:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/china-s-stock-futures-drop-before-new-leadership-is-announced.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index to a seven-week low, as the ruling party named a
new generation of leaders to oversee an economy that is forecast
to grow this year at the slowest pace in more than a decade.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  slid 2.3 percent, leading
declines for lenders, after a report showed the industry’s bad
loans rose for a fourth straight quarter. Jiangxi Copper Co.,
the biggest Chinese copper producer, dropped 1.3 percent as
Citigroup Inc. cut its rating on the stock. Citic Securities
Co., the largest-listed brokerage, slid to the lowest in more
than two months after it received a warning from its regulator.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 1.2 percent to 2,030.29,
the lowest close since Sept. 26. Xi Jinping was appointed
general secretary of the Communist Party, putting him in line to
become president.  Wang Qishan , vice premier overseeing the
financial sector, was named head of the party’s discipline body,
indicating he won’t have a post directly overseeing the economy.
Wang was elected to the Standing Committee today, along with Xi.  “The composition of the top leaders indicates a go-slow
approach to reforms of the financial markets and the economy and
not in an aggressive way as expected by the market,” said Dai Ming, a  fund manager  at Hengsheng Hongding Asset Management Co.
in Shanghai, which manages $190 million. “That’s a bit
negative.”  The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  lost 1.3 percent to 2,193.62, with nine
out of 10 industry groups dropping at least 1 percent. The  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in  Hong
Kong  retreated 1.8 percent. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the
measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, fell
1.2 percent in New York yesterday.  New Leadership  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 7.7 percent this year on
concern economic growth will slow unless the government reforms
state-owned enterprises and allows private companies to
flourish. The gauge trades at 9.7 times estimated profit for
2012, compared with the 17.8 average multiple since Bloomberg
began compiling the weekly data in 2006.  Trading volumes on the index were 25 percent lower than the
30-day average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 30-
day volatility was at 14, compared with this year’s average of
17.1.  Xi succeeds  Hu Jintao  as general secretary of the 82
million-member party that has run China since 1949, the official
Xinhua News Agency announced. Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  is
forecast to replace Premier Wen Jiabao at a March meeting.  Leadership Composition  Li,  Zhang Dejiang , Shanghai party boss Yu Zhengsheng, Liu
Yunshan and Zhang Gaoli were also elected to the Politburo’s
Standing Committee, the highest decision-making body, which was
cut to seven members from nine. Wang is the direct counterpart
to U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who in 2009 said
Wang is China’s “definitive preeminent troubleshooter,
firefighter, problem solver.”  China’s new leaders will be more tolerant towards lower
“new normal” rates of economic growth as the days of massive
stimulus to boost the expansion are probably over, according to
Barclays Plc. The economy is expected to grow 7.7 percent this
year, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg, which would
be the slowest pace since 1999.  The composition of China’s new leadership may determine the
pace of change on issues such as deregulating  interest rates  and
breaking up state monopolies.  Investors are focused on whether the leadership is intent
on reform,  John Woods , a Hong Kong-based Asian strategist at
Citigroup’s private bank, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. Woods said he’s advising clients to be cautious on
Chinese stocks given policy uncertainty in China and global
turmoil including the so-called fiscal cliff in the U.S.  Construction Bank, the country’s second-largest bank, fell
2.3 percent to 4.18 yuan. Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd., the biggest, dropped 0.8 percent to 3.84 yuan. Bank of
China Ltd. lost 0.7 percent to 2.81 yuan.  Bad Loans  Non-performing loans at Chinese banks rose by 22.4 billion
yuan ($3.6 billion) in the three months ended Sept. 30, to 478.8
billion yuan, the China Banking Regulatory Commission said
today. Bad loans gained at all types of banking institutions,
including the largest state-owned lenders, rural banks and
foreign banks, the regulator said.  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal,
retreated 1.3 percent to 20.56  yuan . The stock was lowered to
neutral from buy at Citigroup, which said there is ample metal
supply to meet demand and the shares have already priced in a
rebound in cooper prices.  Citic Securities fell 2.1 percent to 10.51 yuan, its lowest
close since Aug. 31. The China Securities Regulatory Commission
warned the brokerage for failing to reveal a “substantial
profit decline” for a company whose initial public offering it
was underwriting.  Fiscal Cliff  In the U.S., the  S&P 500 Index  tumbled 1.4 percent
yesterday on concern the budget debate in Washington and after
Israel carried out a series of air strikes in the  Gaza Strip .
President  Barack Obama  is negotiating to reach a deficit-
reduction deal with Congress to avert $607 billion in automatic
tax increases and spending cuts, or the so-called fiscal cliff.  The U.S. is  China ’s second-largest export market, making up
about 17 percent of the nation’s overseas sales, according to
Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., lost 0.7 percent to a one-
month low of $35.74, after surging 6.3 percent in October.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  