-- CIC, PetroChina, BOC Heads Get Communist Party Promotions
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-15T02:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/cic-petrochina-boc-heads-get-communist-party-promotions.html
The chairmen of  China ’s  sovereign
wealth fund , largest energy company, fourth-biggest bank and top
airplane maker were given higher positions in a ruling Communist
Party undergoing a once-a-decade leadership change.  China Investment Corp.’s  Lou Jiwei , China National
Petroleum Corp.’s  Jiang Jiemin ,  Bank of China Ltd. ’s Xiao Gang
and Aviation Industry Corp. of China’s Lin Zuoming were
yesterday named full members of the Communist Party’s central
committee. The four were previously alternate members.  State-owned enterprises dominate industries in China
including oil, banking and transportation and account for the 20
largest companies by weighting in the nation’s  Shanghai
Composite Index. (SHCOMP)  More than 25 percent of government controlled
firms are unprofitable and their productivity growth has trailed
that of private businesses in the past three decades, the  World
Bank  said in February.  The 205 full members of the Central Committee and another
171 alternates were announced after the close of the 18th
Communist Party Congress yesterday. The Politburo Standing
Committee, China’s top decision-making body, will be drawn from
the  Central Committee ’s membership and will be announced today.  CIC’s Lou, 61, served in the  People’s Liberation Army , was
deputy governor of the southwestern province of Guizhou and was
a deputy finance minister before joining CIC, which oversees
about $482 billion in assets.  Oil Industry  CNPC’s Jiang, 57, worked as deputy governor of the western
Chinese province of Qinghai from 2000 to 2004 and was appointed
chairman of listed unit PetroChina Co. in May 2007. He has been
chairman of CNPC since November 2011, according to the company’s
website.  Bank of China ’s Xiao was the only chief executive officer
from the country’s five largest lenders to ascend to the central
committee. Xiao, 54, an alumnus of Hunan University of Finance
and Economics, joined Bank of China in 2003 after more than 20
years at the nation’s central bank.  “It’s unlikely that there will be any major changes in the
bank’s strategy just because its chairman is now a member of the
central committee,” said Rainy  Yuan , a Shanghai-based analyst
at  Masterlink Securities Corp. (2856)   Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  Chairman  Jiang Jianqing ,  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  Chairman Jiang Chaoliang,  China Construction Bank Corp (939)  Chairman Wang Hongzhang
and  Bank of Communications Co.  Chairman Hu Huaibang were named
alternate members of the central committee.  China Aerospace Science & Technology Corp. President Ma Xingrui was also named to the central committee, according to a
list of members published by the official Xinhua News Agency.  Baosteel Group Corp. Chairman  Xu Lejiang , Commercial
Aircraft Corp. of China Ltd. Chairman Jin Zhuanglong, China
Telecom Corp. Chairman Wang Xiaochu and Haier Group Chairman
Zhang Ruimin were named as alternate members of the central
committee.  In the energy sector, Shenhua Group Corp. Chairman Zhang Xiwu was picked as a alternate member to the committee. Wang Yilin, Chairman of China National Offshore Oil Corp., and Cao Peixi, General Manager of China Huaneng Group Corp., were both
named to the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection.  COFCO Corp. Chairman Ning Gaoning, Aluminum Corp. of China
Chairman  Xiong Weiping  and Angang Steel Co. Chairman  Zhang Xiaogang  were named to the discipline commission .  “It’s better to be on the lists than not, but you cannot
read too much into it either,” said Lin Boqiang, director of
Xiamen University’s Center for Energy Economics Research.
“Promotion, demotion or departure of top leaders aren’t unusual
in state-owned enterprises, and such changes usually have little
impact on overall performance of the companies.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  