-- Colombia Bond Yields Fall Most in a Week on Revised Tax Proposal
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-11-15T19:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/colombia-bond-yields-fall-most-in-a-week-on-revised-tax-proposal.html
Colombian yields fell the most in a
week after the government  revised  a proposal for taxes on
foreigners’ bond profits, setting a levy of 14 percent and
removing an option for policy makers to increase the rate.  The yield on the government’s 10 percent peso-denominated
bonds due July 2024 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 6.27 percent, according to the central bank.  The government’s proposal to reduce the current 33 percent
levy is intended to reduce yields on the peso bonds by luring
overseas creditors, Public Credit Director Maria Fernanda Suarez
said in an interview last month. By attracting more inflows, the
 tax cut  would push further gains in the peso, going against
Colombia’s bid to ease the currency’s rally, said  Camilo Perez ,
the head analyst at Banco de Bogota SA, the nation’s second-
biggest bank.  “The question now is if it will get approval from Congress
given the concern over the  exchange rate ,” Perez said.  A previous version of the proposal called for cutting the
 tax rate  to 12.5 percent while allowing for the levy to be
raised to 25 percent should the government “determine that
market conditions are favorable for attracting foreign portfolio
investment.” The government has said it expects the tax bill to
be approved by Congress by year-end.  The central bank and government stepped up dollar purchases
this year to ease a rally in the local currency that policy
makers say is threatening jobs in agriculture and industry by
making exports more expensive in dollar terms.  Peso Falls  The peso declined 0.3 percent to 1,824.60 per  U.S. dollar ,
paring its rally this year to 6.2 percent.  The central bank said Sept. 28 it was extending plans for
dollar purchases and will buy a minimum of $3 billion between
Oct. 1 and March 29 in amounts of at least $20 million per day.  Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  has also said the
government is buying dollars for its petroleum stability fund,
in which some of the country’s oil royalties are invested. The
fund will end the year with $1 billion in dollar holdings,
compared with $500 million at the end of September, Cardenas
said Sept. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  