-- Connery to Craig, 007 Style Mirrored Times: Peter Rainer
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2012-11-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/connery-to-craig-007-style-mirrored-times-peter-rainer.html
The 007 movie franchise has turned
50 with the release of “ Skyfall ,” one of the best in the
series. It’s already breaking box-office records overseas.  The previous 22 Bond films have grossed around $5 billion,
a sum that even Ernst Stavro Blofeld wouldn’t dismiss.  Daniel Craig , in his third outing, is as craggy as ever but
he’s also more three-dimensional, thanks to a Scottish-orphan
backstory and a Freudian flourish involving Judi Dench’s
matriarchal M.  Sean Connery , for me and just about everybody else, remains the
best of the babe-magnet Bonds. He had style to burn. The only
time Craig dresses up is when he has to infiltrate bad-boy
billionaire soirees. (There’s a lot of Bourne in this Bond).  Connery liked to swank it up because his James had a snobby
sense of entitlement and he knew how good he looked in a tux.  Beginning in 1962 with “ Dr. No ” followed by “ From Russia
With Love ,” “ Goldfinger ,” “ You Only Live Twice ” and
“ Thunderball ” -- before he got a bit long in the tooth and
loose in the flesh -- Connery had just the right curdling cruel
mix of suavity and menace. Bond, he never let us forget, is
licensed to kill.  Brazenly Priapic  Connery grew in stature as an actor outside of the series
but he was never so brazenly priapic as he is in these films.
Who else, grappling with crime-ring queen Pussy Galore in
“Goldfinger” could deliver a line like “You’re a woman of
many parts, Pussy” with a (sort of) straight face?  Still, the series was never dependent on Connery for its
success. After Connery and before Craig, George Lazenby, Roger Moore, Timothy Dalton, and Pierce Brosnan all had a go at it.
The formula, always loopier than the Ian Fleming novels, has
continually adjusted to the zeitgeist.  The early Cold War-era Connery films were top heavy with
stateless master-race crazies seeking world domination. The
“ Star Wars ” era resulted in the unfortunate “ Moonraker ,”
with its zero-gravity laser battles barely mussing Moore’s cast-
iron coif.  Nothing mussed Moore really, which is why he was the most
freeze-dried of the Bonds -- a debonair hologram. Even Brosnan,
also afflicted with blow-dry suavity, had his ornery side. Moore
only became fully human in “ The Spy Who Loved Me ,” when Jaws’s
chompers were bearing down on the aghast Bond’s jugular.  Enter Pulpathons  In the eighties, with the advent of the violent Stallone-
Schwarzenegger pulpathons, movies like “ For Your Eyes Only ”
and “ License to Kill ,” the latter starring the moody, Hamlet-
esque Dalton, emphasized ground-level crunch-and-thud theatrics.  In “Skyfall,” Bond, who doesn’t seem to be especially
computer literate, faces off against cyberwarriors. But
throughout the series, no matter who his adversaries are --
blatant or shadowy, high-tech or lowdown -- Bond generally
dispatches them the old-fashioned way: One on one.  He’s battled baddies with cast-iron pecs and poison-tipped
shoes (Robert Shaw and Lotte Lenya, respectively, in “From
 Russia  With Love”). He’s fended off stainless steel incisors
(Richard Kiel’s Jaws in “The Spy Who Loved Me” and
“Moonraker”) and steel-rimmed bowler hats (Harold Sakata’s
Oddjob in “Goldfinger”). Mads Mikkelsen in “ Casino Royale ”
literally cried tears of blood.  He’s tooled around in autogyros, space-station shuttles,
Aston Martins, Lotuses, even invisible cars.  The Bond series also has the distinction of being a pioneer
in the dubious realm of product placement. Not for nothing was
“ Die Another Day ” dubbed “Buy Another Day.”  Throughout it all Bond remains the avatar of “For King and
Country” sangfroid. He leapt to freedom in “The Spy Who Loved
Me” in a Union Jack parachute. To kick off the London Olympics,
Craig’s Bond escorted the Queen herself from  Buckingham Palace .
It was a Rule Britannia joke the whole world was in on.  The Bond franchise has more global reach than the old
empire ever did.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own).  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  tech .  To contact the writer of this column:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 