-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Advances to a Seven-Month High
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2012-11-15T14:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-advances-to-a-seven-month-high.html
Household confidence climbed last
week to the highest level in seven months as Americans became
less pessimistic about the economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 33.1 in
the period ended Nov. 11 from minus 34.4 the previous week. The
gauge has stayed above minus 40, the level associated with
recessions and their aftermath, for two months. Twenty-two
percent of those surveyed, the most since March 2008, had a
positive view of the state of world’s largest economy.  More optimism along with faster job growth would improve
the odds of a pickup in retail sales at the start of the  holiday
shopping season . The risk for  consumer spending , which accounts
for about 70 percent of the economy, is that the prospect of
higher taxes tied to the so-called fiscal cliff prompts
households to pull back.  “The long-awaited cyclical recovery in consumer sentiment
is gathering momentum, which will likely continue along with
what appears to be a quicker pace of labor-market improvement,”
said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in  New
York . “One risk going forward is the fiscal cliff, which has
not yet resulted in consumers increasing savings.”  The gauge of confidence has advanced in 10 of the past 12
weeks for the third time in data going back 26 years and is on
pace to reach its highest annual average since 2007.  Another report today showed manufacturing in the New York
region contracted for a fourth straight month in November as
superstorm Sandy knocked out electrical power and limited
activity.  Regional Manufacturing  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s  general economic 
index was minus 5.2 this month after minus 6.2 in October.
Readings of less than zero signal contraction in New York,
northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  Sandy also wreaked havoc on the job market. Applications
for  jobless benefits  surged by 78,000 to 439,000 in the week
ended Nov. 10, the most since April 2011, the Labor Department
said today in Washington. Several states said the increase was
due to the storm that hit the Northeastern part of the U.S. in
late October, a Labor Department spokesman said as the data were
released to the press.  Stocks were little changed after the reports. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent to 1,357.29 at 9:35 a.m. in
New York.  The comfort index’s state of the  economy gauge  increased to
minus 56.6 from minus 60.1. The measure has climbed in 11 of the
past 12 weeks, the best performance since late 1993 to early
1994.  Buying Climate  The Bloomberg barometer measuring Americans’ views of their
 personal finances  fell to minus 5.1 from minus 3.6 the previous
week. The buying climate index increased to minus 37.6 from
minus 39.3.  The recent gains in the weekly confidence measure coincided
with the closing weeks of the presidential campaign.  “With the election finally behind us and the impact of the
hurricane beginning to wane, consumers at last can begin to
focus on the holiday shopping,” Jeffrey Siegel, chief executive
officer of  Garden City , New York-based Lifetime Brands Inc., the
maker of Cuisinart food processors, said on a Nov. 8 earnings
teleconference. With “ consumer confidence  relatively high,
 interest rates  low, and gas prices somewhat stable, my overall
sense is that consumers generally believe things are getting
better.”  Improving sentiment may benefit retailers like Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. and Macy’s Inc. during the holidays. Retail sales in
the U.S. fell in October for the first time in four months as
the effects of superstorm Sandy slowed business for some. August
and September marked the best back-to-back retail sales showing
since late 2010.  Housing Market  A budding housing recovery and  cheaper gasoline  are helping
to shore up household wealth. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of home
values in 20 cities rose 2 percent from August 2011, the biggest
year-to-year gain since July 2010.  The average nationwide cost for regular gasoline was $3.44
on Nov. 11, down 34 cents from the end of September, according
to data from AAA, the largest U.S. auto group. It reached a 2012
high of $3.94 on April 4.  The economy added 171,000 jobs in October, more than the
157,000 average of the year, the latest Labor Department data
show.  Confidence  among women  rose to the highest level since
April, today’s index showed. Sentiment among those 65 year or
older reached the highest level since November 2007.  Political Sentiment  Sentiment among Republicans was little changed at minus
39.3 from minus 39.6 the previous week. The index for Democrats
fell to minus 25.8 from minus 23.5. Confidence among
Independents rose to minus 34.7 from minus 39.7 the prior week.  “Exit-poll data showed that a nearly identical percentage
of voters rated the economy positively -- and they backed Obama
by a whopping 90-9 percent margin,” said  Gary Langer , president
of New-York based Langer Research Associates, which compiles the
report for Bloomberg.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, compiled by Langer
Research Associates in New York, conducts telephone surveys with
a random sample of 1,000 consumers 18 and older. Each week, 250
respondents are asked for their views on the economy, personal
finances and buying climate; the percentage of negative
responses is subtracted from the share of positive views and
divided by three. The most recent reading is based on the
average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  Washington  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  