-- Corzine Decisions Felled MF Global, House Republicans Say
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-11-15T21:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/corzine-decisions-felled-mf-global-house-republicans-say.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  collapsed
last year because of mistakes made by former chairman and chief
executive officer Jon S. Corzine, U.S.  House Republicans  said in
a report on the futures brokerage’s path to bankruptcy.  Corzine, a Democrat who served in the  U.S. Senate  and as
New Jersey governor before taking the helm at MF Global, pushed
the firm into new areas without reviving its core commodities
trading business, lawmakers led by Representative  Randy Neugebauer  of Texas said in a 101-page report stemming from a
year-long investigation. U.S. regulators under President  Barack Obama  failed to coordinate oversight of the company, they said.  “We found that  Jon Corzine  contributed greatly to the
demise of this company,” Neugebauer said at a news conference
in Washington. “There was a breakdown in communication in the
regulatory community.”  MF Global’s Oct. 31, 2011, bankruptcy, the eighth biggest
in U.S. history, left a $1.6 billion shortfall in customer funds
that were supposed to be segregated. Corzine, who was  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s co-chairman before entering politics, told
lawmakers he doesn’t know what happened to the money.  “Mr. Corzine acted in good faith and did what he believed
was necessary to turn around MF Global,” Steven Goldberg, a
spokesman for Corzine, said yesterday in an e-mail statement.  Without Support  The report released today reflects conclusions reached by
majority Republicans on a Financial Services subcommittee led by
Neugebauer who were in contact with Democrats during the probe,
according to  Jeff Emerson , spokesman for the Financial Services
Committee. It was released without support from Representative
Mike Capuano of  Massachusetts , the ranking  Democrat on the
Oversight and Investigations subcommittee.  “I am not co-sponsoring the majority’s staff report on MF
Global primarily due to an insufficient amount of time to review
the report and go over it with other Democratic Subcommittee
Members,” Capuano said yesterday in an e-mail statement.
Democrats are preparing an addendum, he said.  The report describes a lack of coordination between the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Securities and Exchange
Commission, primary regulators for MF Global’s U.S. operations.
The SEC didn’t include the CFTC in several meetings in 2011
about the brokerage’s capital and business strategy that would
have been helpful for oversight, according to the report. The
CFTC didn’t inform the SEC that the broker was using an
alternative method of calculating customer funds.  Conflicting Calls  On the day before the bankruptcy, the two agencies set
three conference calls at 10 a.m., according to e-mails in the
report.  “Ahhhh, coordination in action!” SEC Chairwoman  Mary Schapiro  said in an e-mail to  Robert Cook , the agency’s director
of the division of trading and markets.  “If we were really coordinated, we wouldn’t have 3 calls
at 10am!!” Cook responded.  The CFTC instructed MF Global to transfer funds to the
futures brokerage side of the company after the SEC told the
company to keep $220 million on the securities brokerage side,
according to the report. “Without telling us? That is
unacceptable,” Schapiro wrote in an e-mail to Cook on Nov. 1.  “Behavior like this violates a trust the American people
have in our government,” Representative  Spencer Bachus , the
Alabama Republican who leads the Financial Services Committee,
said at today’s news conference.  Obama Appointees  Both Schapiro and CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler , who worked
for Goldman Sachs while Corzine was there, were appointees of
Obama’s Democratic administration.  “With respect to communications between the SEC and the
CFTC regarding the capital charges required of the firm in
August 2011, the report neglects to note that our staff in fact
informed the CFTC staff of these charges at that time, a fact
confirmed by CFTC’s general counsel in testimony before the
subcommittee,”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in an e-mail
statement.  Steve Adamske , spokesman for the CFTC, declined to comment
on the report. Jill E. Sommers, the Republican commissioner
leading the CFTC’s MF Global probe, also declined to comment.  With the CFTC, SEC and  Justice Department  all reviewing the
collapse of MF Global, congressional investigators had trouble
determining who was responsible for the gap in client funds,
Neugebauer said in an interview last month.  “Those people may be talking to the regulators or law
enforcement officials, but they aren’t talking to us and so it
makes it difficult for us to make that call,” Neugebauer said
in an Oct. 31 interview in Chicago.  Two Trustees  Louis Freeh , a trustee for parent company MF Global
Holdings Ltd. has been unwinding the company under Chapter 11 of
the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  in an effort to repay creditors. James Giddens, a separate trustee for the failed brokerage, MF Global
Inc., is liquidating assets to repay customers under the
Securities Investor Protection Act. Each trustee has conducted
his own probe into how the company failed and they have been at
odds over whether certain sums belong to creditors or customers.  Among the House report’s recommendations was a call to
merge the CFTC and SEC as a way to prevent regulatory overlap
and conflict. That suggestion drew opposition from Senator  Pat
Roberts , a Kansas Republican involved in CFTC oversight as a
member of the Agriculture Committee.  “It has been clear from the outset that Governor Corzine
was largely responsible for what happened at MF Global,”
Roberts said in a statement. “The CFTC has already made changes
in an effort to prevent this from even happening again. I don’t
see how merging two regulators who regulate different aspects of
our economy would have made any difference in Governor Corzine’s
bad decisions or in preventing such a problem in the future.”  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF  Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  