-- Cost of Living in U.S. Probably Rose at Lower Pace in October
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-11-15T05:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/cost-of-living-in-u-s-probably-rose-at-lower-pace-in-october.html
The cost of living probably grew in
October at the slowest pace in three months, showing U.S.
inflation is in check, economists said before a report today.  The projected 0.1 percent gain in the consumer-price index
follows a 0.6 percent increase the prior month, according to the
median estimate of 83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Other
reports may show jobless claims climbed as a result of
superstorm Sandy, while regional manufacturing decelerated.  Macy’s Inc. (M)  is among retailers planning holiday discounts,
while  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  are battling to
offer the best online prices on toys, indicating companies have
little leeway to charge more. The inflation outlook is in sync
with the Federal Reserve’s view and gives policy makers room to
concentrate on boosting growth.  “There isn’t much pricing power,” said Russell Price, a
senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit .
“Inflation is a second-tier concern for the Fed right now.
Growth is by far their biggest focus.”  The Labor Department will release the consumer price
figures at 8:30 a.m. today in Washington. Economists’ estimates
ranged from a drop of 0.1 percent to an increase of 0.3 percent.  Also at 8:30 a.m., the Labor Department may report  claims 
for unemployment benefits jumped to 375,000 last week from
355,000 in the prior period, according to the Bloomberg survey
median, as workers who lost their jobs as a result of the storm
that paralyzed parts of the Northeast begin to file. A Labor
Department spokesman last week said it may take three to four
weeks to see the full impact.  Regional Manufacturing  Regional data on manufacturing, a mainstay of the economic
expansion, may reflect concern about the impending fiscal
tightening that’s led businesses to limit investment.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s so-called  Empire
State index , covering New York, northern New Jersey and southern
 Connecticut , dropped to minus 8 in November from minus 6.2 the
prior month, Bloomberg survey median showed. Readings less than
zero signal contraction. The report is also due at 8:30 a.m.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s gauge, to be
released at 10 a.m., may decrease to 2 this month from 5.7 in
October, signaling a slower pace of expansion.  Today’s price report may also show the so-called  core CPI 
measure, which excludes volatile food and energy costs,
increased 0.1 percent in October for the fourth consecutive
month, economists predicted.  Retailer Discounts  Macy’s, the second-largest U.S. department-store chain,
posted third-quarter profit that topped analysts’ estimates
while its forecast for the end of the year signaled it may use
heavy discounts to draw holiday shoppers.  Amazon.com has cheaper online prices for toys than Wal-
Mart, Target Corp. and other major chains as parents begin
shopping for the holidays, according to a Bloomberg Industries
analysis. In a comparison of 125 randomly selected toys
conducted Nov. 8, Amazon had lower prices than Wal-Mart on 44
percent of the items, while Wal-Mart had the advantage on 13
percent.  Limited price pressures give policy makers room to maintain
a third round of unprecedented bond-buying aimed at spurring the
expansion and reducing unemployment. Longer-term inflation
expectations have “remained stable,” the Federal Open Market
Committee said in an Oct. 24 statement after its meeting.  “The Committee also anticipates that inflation over the
medium term likely would run at or below its 2 percent
objective,” the Fed officials said.  Cheaper Fuel  Cheaper fuel costs may keep limiting the cost of living for
Americans this month. A gallon of regular  gasoline  at the pump
has averaged $3.46 so far in November, down 41 cents from a
five-month high of $3.87 reached on Sept. 13, according to AAA,
the biggest U.S. motoring group.  The consumer price index is the broadest of three monthly
inflation gauges reported by the Labor Department. Producer
prices, released yesterday, unexpectedly fell in October for the
first time in five months as energy and vehicle costs dropped.
The 0.2 percent decline followed a 1.1 percent increase the
prior month.  Import prices unexpectedly climbed in October, led by
increases in energy expenses that have since been reversed. The
0.5 percent advance followed a 1.1 percent gain in September and
a 1.2 percent rise in August, figures showed last week.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  