-- Cracker Barrel Shareholders Reject Biglari for Board Seat
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-11-15T17:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/cracker-barrel-shareholders-reject-biglari-for-board-seat.html
Cracker Barrel  Old Country Store
Inc.’s investors rejected naming the restaurant chain’s largest
 shareholder  as a director for the second time.  They also voted in favor of a so-called poison pill with a
20 percent threshold that was adopted in April after Sardar Biglari continued to make open-market purchases of Cracker
Barrel shares. Biglari, chairman and chief executive officer of
San Antonio-based  Biglari Holdings Inc. (BH) , a chain-restaurant
operator, owns about 17.5 percent of Cracker Barrel, according
to his website.  Preliminary results show that more than 70 percent of
voting shares were for the company’s board nominees, while more
than 65 percent voted in support of Cracker Barrel’s shareholder
rights plan, the Lebanon, Tennessee-based company said in a
statement today.  Cracker Barrel, which has about 620 restaurants, has been
fighting off attempts from Biglari to gain a seat on the dining
chain’s board and push for management and strategy changes.
Biglari’s bid for a board seat last year was rejected by
shareholders. In September, Cracker Barrel said Biglari Holdings
rejected its offer to appoint two independent directors.  Cracker Barrel fell 1.3 percent to $61.12 at 11:53 a.m. in
 New York . The  shares  had gained 23 percent this year through
yesterday.  Biglari has criticized the restaurant operator, saying that
its performance has lagged competitors and it hasn’t reported
enough financial details. He also has  said  Cracker Barrel should
focus more on its existing stores instead of opening new ones.  A poison pill is a method used to discourage a takeover bid
by making a company less attractive to a potential raider. While
the measure would give shareholders rights to buy more  stock  at
half its value, the privilege would be void for investors making
a bid not endorsed by the board, according to a Cracker Barrel
statement from April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  