-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Reach 16-Week High; Bombardier Delays Debt
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-11-15T22:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/credit-swaps-in-u-s-reach-16-week-high-bombardier-delays-debt.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose to the highest level since July as more Americans than
forecast submitted claims for  unemployment insurance  last week.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 2.9
basis points to a mid-price of 111.3 basis points at 5:06 p.m.
in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
poised for the highest closing level since 115.4 basis points on
July 25.  Weaker-than-expected economic data may heighten investor
concern that the recovery will falter, hindering companies’
ability to repay obligations. Applications for  jobless benefits 
surged 78,000 to 439,000 in the week ended Nov. 10, the most
since April 2011, the Labor Department said today. That exceeded
the 375,000 median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “The economic data wasn’t nearly as good as people had
hoped,” Marc Pinto, head of corporate bond strategy at
Susquehanna International Group LLP, said in a telephone
interview. “The market is shooting first and asking questions
later.”  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s  general economic
index  decreased to minus 10.7 in November from 5.7 a month
earlier. A reading of zero is the dividing line between
expansion and contraction in the area covering eastern
 Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware . Economists
estimated the gauge would decline to 2, according to the median
projection in a Bloomberg survey.  Tax Increase  President  Barack Obama  will meet with congressional leaders
tomorrow for an opening round of negotiations regarding a deal
to avert $607 billion in automatic tax increases and spending
cuts.  The euro-area economy succumbed to a recession for the
second time in four years as gross domestic product slipped 0.1
percent in the third quarter after a 0.2 percent drop in the
previous three months, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today. Unions across the region have protested
government budget cuts aimed at narrowing fiscal deficits.  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Bombardier Sale  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , the commercial-aircraft maker whose credit
rating was cut yesterday by  Standard & Poor’s  on lower-than-
expected cash generation, is delaying a $1 billion bond
offering. The sale was postponed due to market conditions,
according to Isabelle Rondeau, a spokeswoman at the Montreal-
based company.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade debt
climbed 9 basis points to 5.99 percentage points, led by spreads
on the bonds of communications companies which widened 16 basis
points to 5.95 percentage points, Bloomberg data show.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North America High Yield
Index, a measure of U.S. speculative-grade corporate debt risk,
rose 9 basis points to 572 basis points, Bloomberg prices show.
That’s the highest intraday level since 583.1 basis points on
Aug. 3.  Archer-Daniels  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
stress in credit markets, rose 1.5 basis points to 13.3 basis
points, the highest since Oct. 8. The measure rises when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
falls when they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  Credit swaps tied to  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  rose 7
basis points to 100 basis points as of 3:30 p.m. in New York,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated markets.  GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC) , the largest grain handler in eastern
 Australia , said it will consider any new proposals after
rebuffing a A$2.7 billion ($2.8 billion) takeover offer from
Decatur, Illinois-based Archer-Daniels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  