-- Curbing Tax Breaks Falls Short of Revenue Needed to Avoid Cliff
-- B y   P e t e r   C o y
-- 2012-11-15T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/curbing-tax-breaks-falls-short-of-revenue-needed-to-avoid-cliff.html
As the U.S. approaches the fiscal
cliff on Jan. 1, curtailing some of the tax breaks that cost the
Treasury $1.3 trillion a year is emerging as a seemingly easy
way to end the impasse over budget reform.  House Speaker  John Boehner  favors broadening the  tax base 
to generate more revenue without raising rates. President  Barack Obama , while continuing to demand higher rates on top incomes,
says limiting the use of tax breaks for the wealthy could be
part of the solution.  Tax breaks are woven into the fabric of daily life: the
home mortgage interest deduction, the favorable tax treatment
for investment income, the break that leads so much of health
insurance to be provided by employers. Some benefit the rich;
others the poor. Some enhance growth; others, not so much,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Nov. 19 issue.  Tightening them up has potential, yet done wrong it could
cause more problems than it solves. A botched spackling job
could hurt the poor and the middle class and also remove
incentives for businesses to invest and grow -- without
producing a lot of revenue.  “It may prove difficult to gain more than $100 billion to
$150 billion in additional  tax revenues  through base
broadening,” Congressional Research Service economists Jane
Gravelle and Thomas Hungerford wrote in a  report  earlier this
year.  Tax Expenditures  Congress calls breaks “tax expenditures” because they have
the same effect as spending on the government’s bottom line.  Econ 101 says that eliminating or curbing them allows the
government to keep tax rates down, which gives people stronger
incentives to work and invest.  “Higher marginal tax rates distort behavior and reduce
activity,” Columbia Business School DeanGlenn Hubbard, an
economic adviser to Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ’s campaign, wrote in a Nov. 12 opinion piece in the
Financial Times.  Unfortunately, there’s less to the case for curbing tax
breaks than meets the eye. First, even if all the breaks were
eliminated the government wouldn’t raise $1.3 trillion, because
taxpayers “ould change their behavior to avoid higher levies.  Toll on Middle Class  Second, curbing tax breaks would be harder on the middle
class and poor than simply raising taxes on the rich. That’s
because to raise a lot of money, budget balancers would have to
get rid of breaks that benefit the non-rich, such as the earned-
income and child tax credits.  Reducing tax expenditures “will not raise nearly the
revenue needed for sufficient  deficit reduction  without
increasing taxes on the middle class significantly,”  Robert Rubin , who was President  Bill Clinton ’s Treasury secretary,
wrote in a Nov. 13 opinion piece in the  New York  Times. He
called the pursuit of tax breaks “the policy equivalent of a
wild-goose chase.”  Third, the supposed economic advantage of “broadening the
base” -- subjecting more income to taxation -- is that it
enables reductions in marginal tax rates. Yet cutting rates
isn’t economic Miracle-Gro. All base-broadening does is change
the mix: Some activities face a lighter tax, while others face a
heavier one.  Research Credit  Fourth, and most important, some tax breaks serve vital
public purposes. Take the research and development tax credit,
which reduces the amount a company owes in taxes by a percentage
of the R&D it performs.  The credit encourages companies to do more research, which
has spillover benefits for their employees, other businesses,
and ultimately customers and taxpayers. Left to their own
devices, companies would do less R&D than is optimal for society
as a whole.  The U.S. research and development tax break is less than a
fifth the size of those given by countries such as  India ,
 France , and the Netherlands, according to the  Information
Technology & Innovation Foundation , a nonpartisan research group
in  Washington .  “We’re not even close” to the ideal amount of corporate R&D
in the U.S., says Robert Atkinson, ITIF’s founder and president.
Throwing the R&D credit out in the name of giving the budgetary
balloon more lift would inadvertently harm the economy’s growth,
says Atkinson: “The ballast is not actually ballast. It’s
helium.”  Clean Slate  The urge to start with a clean slate is strong, though. A
report by Republican  Alan Simpson  and Democrat Erskine Bowles,
the co-chairmen of Obama’s deficit-reduction commission, offered
as one option a “Zero Plan” that would wipe out all tax breaks,
good and bad alike.  That would include breaks that are good for long-term
growth such as the accelerated depreciation of business
investment in equipment and the deduction for domestic
production activities, which favors manufacturing in the U.S.  Economists don’t much like some of the biggest tax breaks,
such as the  mortgage-interest  deduction, which cost the Treasury
$78 billion in fiscal 2011, according to Congress’s Joint
Committee on Taxation. That deduction induces people to load up
on debt to buy more housing than they need.  Yet it’s popular with middle-class voters, and eliminating
it abruptly would make homeownership less appealing, causing
 home prices  to fall. That would yank the rug out from under
families that figured the break into what they paid for their
homes.  Capital Gains  Then there are the preferential rates for  capital gains  and
dividends, which cost the government $91 billion last year.
Those breaks largely benefit the wealthy, and economists
disagree over whether they meaningfully encourage investment.  They’re also well-insulated on  Capitol Hill . It turns out
there’s little to no correlation between the economic value of
tax breaks and their political viability.  Romney pointed to one way out of this box: an annual cap on
the total value of the tax breaks that a taxpayer could claim.
He tossed out caps ranging from $17,000 to $50,000.  That would have the biggest impact on the rich while
sidestepping arguments about which tax breaks are most
worthwhile.  Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, said on Nov. 13 that a cap deserves a closer look.
Still, unless the cap were low enough to affect the middle class
as well as the rich, it would only put a modest dent in the
deficit.  Eventually the country will have to decide which tax breaks
it can’t live without -- and how much it’s willing to raise
taxes to cover their cost.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Coy  in New York at   pcoy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova in Washington at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  