-- Cybersecurity Bill Killed, Paving Way for Executive Order
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-11-15T00:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/cybersecurity-bill-killed-paving-way-for-executive-order.html
U.S. Senate Republicans yesterday
killed cybersecurity legislation backed by President  Barack Obama , increasing prospects the White House will implement some
of the bill’s provisions through an executive order.  Supporters failed 51-47 to get the 60 votes needed under
Senate rules to bring the bill up for passage. Republicans
blocked the same measure in August, saying it would lead to more
 government regulation  of business.  “It to some degree hardens the lines of division, which
makes it more likely we’ll see an executive order rather than an
attempt to revive the legislation in the near term,” Stewart Baker, a former assistant secretary for policy at the Department
of  Homeland Security , said in an interview.  “The only other thing that can produce legislation is a
major cybersecurity meltdown,” said Baker, a partner at the
Steptoe & Johnson law firm in Washington.  Administration officials have continued to warn about cyber
threats capable of widespread damage. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  in a speech in New York last month said computer
assaults by other countries or extremist groups could be as
destructive as the Sept. 11 attacks.  White House officials have said Obama was considering an
order creating a program to protect vital  computer networks  from
cyber attacks if Congress failed to pass an acceptable  law.  Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said the
Senate vote killed any chance for congressional action this
year.  “Cybersecurity is dead for this Congress,” Reid said
after the vote.  Four Republican senators broke ranks with their party to
vote in favor of advancing the Senate bill, and five Democrats
joined Republicans in opposition.  Infrastructure Threats  The legislation, introduced in February by Senators  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent, and  Susan Collins , a Maine
Republican, would have created voluntary cybersecurity standards
for companies that operate infrastructure such as power grids
and chemical plants considered essential to U.S. national
security. The bill also would have encouraged companies and the
government to share information on cyber threats.  Republicans and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s
largest business lobby, opposed the voluntary standards, saying
they would be a back door to government regulation and fail to
keep pace with evolving threats in cyberspace. The chamber
released a letter yesterday reiterating its opposition.  “Whatever we do on this bill, it’s not enough for the
Chamber of Commerce,” Reid said.  Pentagon Role  Obama has signed a separate directive setting policy for
how the government handles threats in cyberspace, according to
three current and former administration officials. The directive
opens the door to a bigger role for the Defense Department,
directing it to provide civilian agencies with technical help on
cybersecurity, according to a former senior intelligence
official familiar with the document.  The debate over cybersecurity legislation has turned from
substantive analysis to a “political blame game” about who can
best protect the nation, Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa
Republican, said on the floor before yesterday’s vote.  “Rushing something through that will impact the country in
such a massive way is not a way we should do business,”
Grassley said.  Information Sharing  Senate Republicans, including Grassley,  John McCain  of
Arizona and  Kay Bailey Hutchison  of Texas, had urged more
limited legislation to encourage government and companies to
share information about cyber threats, along the lines of a bill
they introduced in March.  The Republican-controlled  House of Representatives  in April
passed a similar information-sharing measure, sponsored by Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican who leads the House Intelligence
Committee, and the panel’s top Democrat, C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger of Maryland.  The Obama administration said it would veto the House
measure because it doesn’t safeguard the privacy of consumer
data that may be shared or protect the nation’s infrastructure
from cyber attacks.  The Lieberman bill is S. 3414. The McCain bill is S. 3342.
The Rogers bill is H.R. 3523.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  