-- Dell, HP Earnings Expected to Herald the End of PC Era
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-11-16T17:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/death-be-not-proud-as-dell-to-hewlett-packard-show-pc-end-tech.html
(Corrects story that ran Nov. 15 to show Wasatch no longer
holds Hewlett-Packard shares.)  The PC era is ending. More evidence
of the monumental shift away from personal computers will come
when  Dell Inc. (DELL)  reports results later today, and  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  announces its earnings next week.  As more consumers and businesses flock to smartphones and
tablets, companies led by Hewlett-Packard, Dell and  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  that long benefited from demand for PCs are feeling the
pain. Dell will report a 10 percent  drop  in sales, while
Hewlett-Packard’s revenue fell 6 percent in the most recent
quarter, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  The declines mark a reversal from the 1980s, when Microsoft
co-Founder Bill Gates and Dell Founder  Michael Dell  helped usher
in the PC age with low-cost machines that transformed how
companies work and made it easy for consumers to use computers.
The PC shunted aside bigger, pricier, more complex minicomputers
and mainframes that once dominated the industry.  “PC makers are succumbing to the fate of those who don’t
learn from history, not even their own,” said  Erik Gordon , a
professor at the Stephen M. Ross School of Business at the
University of Michigan. The industry’s reaction has been “like
responding to the early auto industry by trying to attach wheels
to the hooves of horses.”  Microsoft, Dell and Hewlett-Packard are introducing their
own tablet computers, and Microsoft has revamped its mobile-
phone software in time for the year-end shopping season. Yet all
three lag behind Apple Inc., Google Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. in
tablets, and Microsoft’s share of smartphones is a fraction of
the slice commanded by Apple and Google.  PC Woe  PC shipments tumbled 8.3 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier, according to market researcher Gartner Inc., and
are forecast to fall this year for the first annual decline
since 2001, according to IHS iSuppli.  Windows sales fell 33 percent in Microsoft’s most recent
quarter, and revenue in Intel Corp.’s key third quarter -- when
PC makers typically stock up on chips for the holiday season --
declined sequentially for the first time in more than 20 years.  The news probably won’t get better soon.  Round Rock, Texas-based Dell may report third-quarter sales
fell to $13.9 billion and  earnings  excluding some items tumbled
27 percent to 40 cents a share, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Growth at the computer maker has stagnated, even after an
acquisition spree since 2009 to diversify into storage,
information-technology services and networking gear for
corporate data centers.  ‘Lackluster Innovation’  “They are de-emphasizing the PC business,” said  Abhey Lamba , an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA. “There will be
revenue headwinds from that, and their other businesses need
investment.”  Hewlett-Packard, based in Palo Alto,  California , may be in
even worse shape. Fourth-quarter sales may drop to $30.5 billion
and earnings excluding some items may fall 3 percent to $1.14 a
share, according to analysts’ average estimate. Chief Executive
Officer Meg Whitman has said a turnaround won’t happen anytime
soon, and the company on Oct. 3 slashed its earnings forecast,
sending shares to a 10-year low.  “The innovation coming from those two companies has just
been lackluster,” said Pat Becker Jr., a fund manager at
Portland, Oregon-based Becker Capital Management Inc.  The PC makers’ stocks have been battered, which means
investors aren’t paying much for already meager profit. Hewlett-
Packard is  trading  at 3.3 times next year’s projected earnings
and Dell at 5.5 times, among the cheapest companies among their
peer group, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Smartphone Ascent  Dell rose 1.9 percent to $9.58 at the close in New York
yesterday, trimming the year-to-date decline to 35 percent.
Hewlett-Packard was little changed at $13.14, and the stock is
down 49 percent this year.  While PC sales languish, smartphone shipments of 488
million last year  overtook  the number of PCs shipped for the
first time, according to market researcher Canalys. Sales of
iPads and other tablets are forecast to increase 26 percent to
$79.4 billion next year, according to NPD DisplaySearch.  In notebooks -- the category the PC makers just a few years
ago counted on for growth -- Apple has surpassed Hewlett-Packard
as the top supplier in terms of revenue.  To be sure, PCs aren’t going away any time soon. The
industry will  ship  348.7 million of them this year, according to
IHS iSuppli. Microsoft’s Surface -- a hybrid tablet computer
that converts into a small laptop -- has received mostly
positive reviews.  Tombstone Written  “There are plenty of people who’ve already written the
tombstone, and you could say that’s a bit premature,” said
Michael Shinnick, a portfolio manager at Wasatch Advisors Inc.
in South Bend,  Indiana , which holds Dell shares.  Windows 8, Microsoft’s much vaunted new software release,
may be a mixed bag for the industry, though. Any new release of
Windows spurs a wave of buying, which lifts all companies in the
PC ecosystem. Yet many companies may eschew buying Windows 8 as
they keep machines longer and are just now upgrading to the last
version.  Old alliances are splintering too: Microsoft’s recently
released Surface tablet runs a version of Windows called RT
built for chips made by  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  -- not its longtime
partner Intel. And it competes directly with machines made by
Hewlett-Packard, Dell and other electronics makers.  Microsoft may have a hard time selling business users on
Surface instead of the iPad if they don’t need its stalwart
Office suite of productivity programs, said Rick Sherlund, an
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. The machine and Windows 8 are
designed around a revamped home screen featuring colorful tiles
that launch programs and update users with current information
from the Internet.  “If you don’t need Office, you don’t need Windows 8,” he
said. “This is the concern everyone has about Microsoft right
now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  