-- Toxic Danish Farm Loans Linger as Bad Bank Swap Faces Stigma
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-11-16T10:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/denmark-s-toxic-farm-loans-linger-as-bad-bank-swap-faces-stigma.html
Denmark ’s ailing banks need to
overcome their fear of stigma and accept a lifeline that will
help them offload toxic farm loans, said the head of the bank
created by lawmakers to take over the distressed debt.  Landbrugets FinansieringsBank, which parliament created in
March, probably faces an uphill battle in persuading lenders of
its merits, Chief Executive Officer Jesper Lyhne said. He’s
trying to combat resistance by touring the country to explain to
management teams how they can use his bank in an effort to
demystify the transactions involved, he said.  “We can maybe prevent local banks from being brought to
the edge of bankruptcy by taking these loans off their lands,”
Lyhne said in a Nov. 14 interview in Copenhagen.  It’s not the first time that Danish banks most in need of
aid have shunned it. Use of the central bank’s longer-term
refinancing operations in March and September fell as much as 84
percent short of analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Part
of the problem is the complexity behind the facilities offered,
Lyhne said.  “The banks are open to the idea but it’s a complex
proposition and there is arguably an element of stigma,” he
said. “You can compare it with the central bank’s LTRO: banks
were very eager initially to say they wouldn’t use it, that they
didn’t need it.”  LFBank, which is 41.7 percent owned by the financial
industry, will take over about 80 of the roughly 160 non-
performing farm loans currently held at the state’s resolution
unit, Financial Stability, Lyhne said.  Bond Swap  LFBank’s model entails buying farm loans from lenders by
issuing bonds to them for 85 percent of a loan’s value. The
notes can’t be resold, though they can be used as collateral at
the central bank, he said. The remaining 15 percent is
repackaged as a new loan, which is subordinated to the bond.  “What we’re doing is quite new and untested, so banks are
waiting to see how this works before they line up and ask us to
take over their loans,” Lyhne said. “We only have about 2
billion kroner ($340 million) in lending capital, so this is not
going to be a question of volume coming in to rescue the Danish
bank industry.”  Though Denmark’s banking crisis, which pushed losses on to
senior bondholders last year, has remained regional in scope,
its fallout has sent funding costs higher across the industry.
Credit default swaps on  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , Denmark’s largest
lender, trade about 66 percent higher than those on  Sweden ’s
 Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , according to data available on Bloomberg. Danske
is rated Baa1 at Moody’s Investors Service, three steps above
junk. Nordea enjoys an Aa3 credit grade with the rater.  ‘Ripple Effect’  “You can see that even when a small Danish bank fails, it
has quite a ripple effect,” Lyhne said.  Bad agricultural loans, which soured after farmers embarked
on a borrowing spree last decade to pay for expansion that left
them insolvent as farm property values sank about 30 percent,
are adding to losses from Denmark’s housing crisis. Farm loans
account for about 7.4 percent of aggregate mortgage and
commercial bank lending, with smaller banks having a higher
concentration, according to central bank statistics.  The outlook for production and employment growth fell to a
record low in August, according to a survey published by the
Danish Agriculture and Food Council on Sept. 25. While that adds
to pressure on bank loans to the farm industry, lenders may
still hesitate to seek help.  ‘Big Step’  “The smaller banks may be afraid of the stigma”
associated with using LFBank, said Thomas Hovard, head of credit
research at Danske Bank Markets. “Being the first bank to go
there could be a big step to take.”  Since the country’s real estate bubble burst four years
ago, more than a dozen regional and local lenders have failed,
pushing the economy into a  recession .  According to Lyhne, banks focused too much on collateral
before the crisis and forgot to take cash flows into account.
His bank won’t take over loans to farms that don’t have any
commercial prospects. Candidates need to meet productivity
criteria and show they have the potential to generate cash flows
that can pay down their debts, he said.  “It needs to be a good farmer who would be able to thrive
once his debt is restructured and made more sustainable,” Lyhne
said.  No Backing  What’s more, bonds sold by LFBank won’t be backed by the
state and in principle bondholders can take a loss, Lyhne said.  Three regional banks failed the central bank’s latest
stress test, while a fourth bank would be close to breaching
capital rules, the bank said on Oct. 25.  Toender Bank A/S, Denmark’s most recent failure, reported a
solvency ratio -- a measure of financial strength -- of 17.3
percent at the end of June. Yet an inspection by the FSA last
month revealed bad loans almost 10 times as big as those the
bank reported, wiping out its equity.  Toender’s collapse “underlines the continued asset and
risk management challenges that Danish banks face, even when
reportedly profitable,” Oscar Heemskerk, a senior credit
officer at Moody’s, said in a Nov. 8 note.  “We hope Toender Bank was an outlier, but there are lots
of local Danish banks that we’re aware of that have a much
larger exposure to agriculture than Toender Bank had,” Lyhne
said. “There are about 10 to 15 banks at least that we can
envisage being able to help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  