-- Deutsche Bank Sours on Corporates as Pimco Sells: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-11-15T10:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/deutsche-bank-sours-on-corporates-as-pimco-sells-credit-markets.html
Bond buyers’ four-year love affair
with corporate debt that spawned the biggest returns since 2009
this year is showing signs of cooling.  Investors are yanking the most money from  exchange-traded
funds  that own company notes in six months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Pacific Investment Management Co.’s ETF
cut its  holdings  of the debt in favor of  government bonds , the
data show. Relative yields on debentures globally are widening
for the first month since May as  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  strategists
said they’re poised to increase further.  Demand for credit is weakening as U.S. lawmakers struggle
to reach an agreement to avoid about $600 billion in spending
cuts and tax increases that may derail a fragile economic
recovery. Without a compromise, the nation faces another
recession four years after the credit crisis that caused the
worst corporate debt losses on record, according to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)   “It’s hard to see the catalyst that would propel risk
assets higher in the near-term,” said Bonnie Baha, head of
global developed credit at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital
LP, which oversees $50 billion. “We’d rather leave a little
money on the table than get caught trying to reposition
portfolios in an adverse market environment.”  Pimco Pares  Pimco’s Total Return ETF (BOND) , which has grown to include $3.3
billion of assets since its February inception, has reduced the
proportion of its corporate bond holdings by more than 3
percentage points in the past month to 18.9 percent, Bloomberg
data show.  BlackRock Inc.’s  junk-bond ETF , the largest of its kind,
reported its biggest outflow ever two days ago, while the New
York firm’s  investment-grade bond ETF  had the most withdrawals
since March over the four days ended Nov. 13, according to the
data.  Spreads on bonds globally have increased 5 basis points
this month after contracting by 122 basis points, or 1.22
percentage points, during the first 10 months of the year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch  index data . The debt
has gained 11.3 percent this year, the most since 2009, pushing
yields to record lows, the data show.  After the “remarkable” returns on corporate bonds this
year, “the incentive for putting on additional risk going into
year-end and amid the cloud of uncertainty surrounding the
fiscal cliff is low,” Richard Salditt, a credit strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG’s securities unit in New York, wrote in a Nov.
9 note to clients. “We now see a higher probability of a
continued modest correction in credit spreads.”  Barclays, Eaton  Elsewhere in credit markets, Barclays Plc and Eaton Corp.
led borrowers in the U.S. selling at least $17.5 billion of debt
to sustain 2012’s unprecedented issuance pace. Ford Motor Co.
sold $1.07 billion of bonds tied to auto loans.  CME Group Inc. (CME) ,
the exchange operator that runs a swaps clearinghouse, got a $5
billion revolving credit line to provide temporary liquidity.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 1.7
basis points to a mid-price of 108.6 basis points, the highest
level since Aug. 2, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings rose 1.5 to 133 at 9:58 a.m. in London.
In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40
investment-grade borrowers outside Japan rose three basis points
to 126.  Stress Gauge  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate  swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, fell 0.25 basis point to 11.75 basis points.
The gauge, which narrows when investors favor assets such as
corporate bonds and widens when they seek the perceived safety
of  government securities , has climbed from 8 basis points on
Oct. 17, the lowest intra-day level in Bloomberg data back to
1988.  Bonds of London-based Barclays were the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers
yesterday, with 214 trades of $1 million or more, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  The U.K.’s second-largest lender sold $3 billion of 10-year
subordinated notes that can be written off in a crisis as it
seeks to meet regulators’ demands to bolster capital.  Eaton Bonds  Cleveland-based Eaton issued $4.9 billion of securities in
five parts to fund its $11.8 billion purchase of Cooper
Industries Plc. Corporate-bond  sales  yesterday were the most
since $24.6 billion on Nov. 5 and exceed this year’s daily
average of about $6.3 billion, Bloomberg data show. Dollar-
denominated bond sales of $1.3 trillion in 2012 already exceeds
the  amount issued  in all of 2009, when companies borrowed a
then-record $1.24 trillion.  Ford issued a $326.2 million portion of top-rated
securities maturing in 2.25 years tied to the most creditworthy
borrowers to yield 13 basis points more than the benchmark
interest rate, according to people familiar with the sale who
asked not to be identified because terms aren’t public.  GM Financial, the provider of loans to buyers with poor
credit acquired by General Motors Co., may pay 26 basis points
more than the swap rate on similar debt linked to subprime
customers, the people said.  CME Credit  Bank of America Corp., Barclays and Bank of China are the
lead arrangers of Chicago-based CME’s  credit line , which may be
increased to as much as $7 billion, according to a regulatory
filing yesterday. The company said in the document that it can
also borrow from the loan to “satisfy outstanding obligations”
of any defaulting clearing members.  In  emerging markets , relative yields narrowed 1 basis point
to 301 basis points, or 3.01 percentage points, according to
 JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index . The measure has averaged 351 basis
points this year.  BlackRock’s $16.3 billion  iShares iBoxx High Yield
Corporate Bond Fund  reported an outflow of 2.4 million shares on
Nov. 13, equal to about $218.9 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest daily withdrawal in
the five-year history of the ETF, the biggest among those that
buy  junk bonds .  ‘Taking Profits’  The firm’s  iShares iBoxx Investment Grade Corporate Bond
Fund , the largest of its kind, recorded redemptions of 1.7
million shares in the four days ended Nov. 13, equal to about
$207 million, Bloomberg data show. That’s the biggest
consecutive daily outflow for the $25.5 billion fund since
March.  The  five-biggest ETFs  that own corporate bonds have
reported $864 million of withdrawals in the four days ending
Nov. 13, Bloomberg data show. That’s the most for a similar
period since the first half of May, when an investor exchanged
19.7 million shares in State Street Corp.’s junk-bond ETF for
the equivalent of about $779.3 million in bonds held by the
fund.  “People are taking profits and moving to the sidelines a
bit,” Mark Pibl, head of credit strategy at New York-based
Cortview Capital Securities LLC, said in a telephone interview.
“There is a lot of uncertainty.”  Fed Stimulus  Relative yields are  widening  after dropping to this year’s
low of 221 basis points on Oct. 18 as the  Federal Reserve 
announced a third round of bond purchases to stimulate a slowing
economic recovery. Yields on bonds from the neediest to the
least-indebted companies fell to an unprecedented 3.38 percent
on Nov. 8 as investors poured more than $82 billion into U.S.
funds that buy the notes this year, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc data.  Non-financial borrowers reported their first decline period
in a measure of earnings since Sept. 2009, JPMorgan analysts led
by  Eric Beinstein  said in a note yesterday. Earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization declined 0.8
percent, or $19 billion, in the three months ended Sept. 31,
compared with the 12 months ended the prior quarter, according
to a JPMorgan analysis of 300 investment-grade issuers.  “Third-quarter earnings were pretty unimpressive,”
DoubleLine’s Baha said. “Now investors are looking toward
fourth-quarter earnings and expecting them to be less impressive
still.”  ‘Painful’ Compromise  Company debt lost 7.5 percent in 2008, the most in data
back to 1998, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Global Broad Market Corporate & High Yield Index. The following
year, U.S. gross domestic product fell 3.1 percent, contributing
to the longest recession since the 1930s.  The greatest threat to the European high-yield  bond market 
is weak economic growth and volatility triggered by the region’s
debt crisis,  Fitch Ratings  said in its quarterly investor
survey.  The  International Monetary Fund  is predicting the world
economy will grow 3.3 percent this year and 3.6 percent next
year, it said on Oct. 9. That compares with July predictions of
3.5 percent in 2012 and 3.9 percent in 2013. The Washington-
based lender now sees “alarmingly high” risks of a steeper
slowdown, with a one-in-six chance of growth slipping below 2
percent.  Unless President Obama and Congress reach an agreement on
how to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff, the  U.S. economy  will
“almost certainly sink back into recession,” according to
 Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan in New York.  “Though we will probably reach some sort of compromise,
it’s going to be painful to get there,”  Thomas Chow , a  money
manager  at Delaware Investments in Philadelphia with about $135
billion in fixed income assets under management. “It’s usually
an eleventh-hour type of compromise that’s reached, only after
the market has been through severe stress.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  