-- Deutsche Boerse Starts Interest-Rate Clearing; 16 Dealers
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-11-15T14:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/deutsche-boerse-starts-interest-rate-clearing-16-dealers.html
Eurex Clearing, a unit of Frankfurt-
based  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , started its new clearing service for
over-the-counter interest-rate swaps as it seeks to compete with
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.  Ten dealers, including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , Citigroup Inc.,  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , backed the new EurexOTC Clear
service when it went live on Nov. 13, the company said in an e-
mailed statement today. Six more dealers, including Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., are preparing to join, Eurex said.  Regulators globally are pushing for more OTC derivatives to
be processed by clearinghouses, seeking to limit the risks that
the $648 trillion of outstanding swaps pose to the financial
system. In the U.S., banks are preparing to implement the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act that Congress passed to limit risks while in
Europe, financial service providers are gearing up for the
European Market Infrastructure Regulation.  “To deliver the full benefits to buy-side clients the
industry needs to have client clearing documentation
finalized,” Hester Serafini, head of Europe and Asia over-the-
counter clearing at JPMorgan, said in the statement. “Launching
the service in mid-November allows clearing brokers and clients
to get ready for the start of the European clearing obligation
that we expect to begin in the second half of 2013.”  LCH.Clearnet, the largest clearinghouse for  interest-rate
swaps , and Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex Clearing operate as central
counterparties for every buy and sell order executed by their
members, who post collateral, reducing the threat in the event
of a trader’s default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  