-- Diabetes Rates Soar in U.S. as 18 States See Cases Double
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-11-15T18:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/diabetes-rates-soar-as-18-states-see-diagnosed-cases-double.html
The number of people living with
 diabetes  is soaring in the U.S., as 18 states had at least a
doubling in those with the illness since 1995, a government
survey found.  Diabetics made up 6 percent or more of the population in
all 50 states in 2010, an increase from just three states, the
 District of Columbia  and Puerto Rico in 1995, according to the
report from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Rates are increasing in tandem with obesity, which has reached
epidemic proportions as physical activity levels plunge and
daily calorie counts soar,  according  to the CDC.  The findings have health and economic implications as the
number of Americans with diabetes is expected to continue
climbing unless effective prevention and treatment efforts are
established, Ann Albright, director of the CDC’s division of
diabetes translation, said. Diabetes  costs  topped $174 billion
in 2007, the most recent numbers available, with about $1 of
every $10 spent on health care going toward the disease,
according to the  American Diabetes Association .  “It’s potentially a big problem, and it’s a problem that
is going to increase,” said  Adrian Vella , an endocrinologist at
the  Mayo Clinic  in Rochester,  Minnesota , who studies the
development of prediabetes. “The longer that people live the
more likely they are to have diabetes. And the longer you have
diabetes, the more likely you are to have complications from
it.”  Telephone Surveys  The findings in the CDC’s  Morbidity and Mortality Weekly
Report  are based on telephone surveys conducted across the U.S.
Researchers asked people if had been told they had diabetes.
They didn’t differentiate between Type 1, which develops in
children who stop producing the hormone insulin, and Type 2,
which accounts for as many as 95 percent of cases.  Type 2
diabetes , where the body doesn’t properly use insulin, generally
occurs in older people who are overweight and sedentary.  “Regionally, we saw the largest increase in diagnosed
diabetes prevalence in the South, followed by the West, Midwest
and Northeast,” said Linda Geiss, a CDC statistician and the
lead study author, in a statement. The findings confirm earlier
reports that the highest numbers of people diagnosed with
diabetes live in the south and the Appalachian states, she said.  The news wasn’t all bad. The increased number of people
with diabetes probably stems in part from better survival among
people with the disease, the CDC report said. Death rates fell
faster among diabetics than those without it from 1997 through
2006 as medical care improved, national data shows.  New Cases  The greatest reason for the increase is the number of newly
diagnosed cases each year since 1990, according to the report.
While some of the increase may stem from better detection, it
also coincides with higher obesity rates, the report found.  Almost 19 million people in the U.S. were  diagnosed  with
diabetes in 2010, and another 7 million had undetected disease,
according to the CDC.  The states with the largest increases in diabetes rates
from 1995 through 2010 were Oklahoma,  Kentucky , Georgia,  Alabama 
and Washington. In Oklahoma alone, the diabetes rate rose 227
percent, the study found. In six states and Puerto Rico, the
number of diabetics was 10 percent or more of the population in
2010. They were Alabama,  Mississippi ,  West Virginia ,  Tennessee ,
 Texas  and  South Carolina .  The CDC findings confirm what doctors are seeing in their
practices across the country, Vella said during a telephone
interview. It’s critical that people work to remain as close as
possible to their healthy body weight, which is one of the best
ways to prevent development of the disease, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  