-- Diamondback’s Newman Allegedly Let Tipster’s Wife Be Paid
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-11-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/diamondback-s-newman-allegedly-let-tipster-s-wife-be-paid.html
Former Diamondback Capital
Management LLC fund manager Todd Newman helped arrange secret
payments to the wife of a man who was the source of illicit tips
on  Dell Inc. (DELL) , a former Diamondback analyst testified.  Jesse Tortora, who worked for Newman from 2007 to 2010,
told a federal jury in New York yesterday that his friend,
Sandeep “Sandy” Goyal, repeatedly provided nonpublic
information about Dell, such as gross margins, revenue numbers
and sales, allowing Newman to earn millions of dollars. Goyal
got the data from a Dell employee, Tortora said.  Tortora said Goyal couldn’t be paid as a consultant for
Diamondback, because he already worked at Neuberger Berman Group
LLC, a mutual fund. Goyal suggested to him they hire his wife,
Ruchi Goyal, who was unemployed, Tortora said.  “I told Todd the situation with Sandy, that Sandy was our
Dell contact and gets Dell data, that he works for Neuberger
Berman and we can’t put him on the payroll,” Tortora testified,
saying that Newman approved of the secret payment arrangement to
Goyal’s wife.  Newman is on trial with Level Global Investors LP co-
founder Anthony Chiasson, charged with using a “corrupt chain”
of insiders at public companies to make more than $70 million
for their funds by trading on illegal tips about Dell and  Nvidia
Corp. (NVDA)   Illegal Tips  Prosecutors allege Chiasson made more than $57 million
trading on illegal tips on Dell and about $10 million on Nvidia.
Newman is accused of making about $3.8 million from Dell trades
and earned about $48,000 on Nvidia.  Both men, who have pleaded not guilty, are charged with
conspiracy and securities fraud. Each count of securities fraud
carries a maximum term of 20 years in prison.  Jurors were shown yesterday an Oct. 27, 2007, e-mail which
Tortora wrote about Ruchi Goyal to human resources officials at
Diamondback in which Newman was also a recipient. In the
message, Tortora said: “Could you please sign up another
consultant for us?”  Several e-mails shown to jurors yesterday by Assistant U.S.
Attorney Antonia Apps indicated that Newman spoke to human
resources in order to approve Ruchi Goyal’s consulting work for
the fund.  Fees, Bonuses  Diamondback would eventually pay Ruchi Goyal $175,000 in
fees and bonuses for information her husband provided, Tortora
said. On two occasions, Tortora said Newman also stepped in to
intercede when human resources asked Ruchi for written samples
of the research she had done for Diamondback when she had none
to show.  “Ruchi was asked to provide them with some sample research
she had done,” Tortora testified. “Both times it happened I
told Todd and I asked him what to do. I do not remember who
spoke to who but Todd told me that it got taken care of.”  Jurors were shown a series of e-mails concerning Ruchi
Goyal, including a Sept. 18, 2008, e-mail exchange between
Tortora and Newman. “I think you went around them last time,”
Tortora told Newman.  “I told her to try to do something before and will do
again,” Newman replied in the e-mail.  Tortora, who has pleaded guilty to securities fraud and is
cooperating with the U.S., is the first witness to testify for
the government. Goyal, who has also pleaded guilty and will
testify at the trial for the U.S., prosecutors have said. Ruchi
Goyal hasn’t been charged with any criminal wrongdoing.  Friends Trading  Tortora has described for the panel how he was part of a
group of friends who traded on illicit tips on Dell and Nvidia
from friends who worked at the technology companies and passed
them to Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, who worked for Chiasson.
Tortora said Adondakis told him he gave the information to
Chiasson.  Adondakis will also testify for the government, prosecutors
said. Tortora continues his testimony today before U.S. District
Court Judge Richard Sullivan, who is presiding over the trial.  Both Chiasson and Newman worked at funds that were raided
by the Federal Bureau of Investigation in November 2010, as part
of a nationwide crackdown of illicit trading by portfolio
managers, analysts and insiders at technology companies by the
FBI in New York and  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s
office. Since August 2009, 72 people have been charged with
insider trading.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00121, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  