-- Dunford Sees Some U.S. Military in Afghanistan Post-2014
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-11-15T18:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/dunford-sees-some-u-s-military-in-afghanistan-post-2014.html
The U.S. military commitment in
 Afghanistan  is likely to extend beyond the departure of most
U.S. combat troops by 2014 as counter-terrorism forces and
advisers stay behind, the nominee to lead American troops there
said today.  Special forces to help hunt insurgents and advisory and
assistance personnel are needed to sustain a “clear and
compelling narrative” that the U.S. will support the Afghan
government through 2014, Marine Corps General Joseph Dunford
said at a Senate hearing on his nomination as the next commander
of U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan.  After that will be a “decade of transformation” in
Afghanistan, he said.  The role of U.S. advisers will depend on what capability
gaps remain in 2014, when President  Barack Obama  has pledged to
remove the bulk of the 68,000 U.S. troops now there, Dunford
told the Senate Armed Services Committee.  Obama nominated Dunford, 56, to succeed General John Allen
as commander in Afghanistan. Committee Chairman  Carl Levin , a
Michigan Democrat, said at the end of the hearing he was “very
very confident” Dunford will win confirmation by the full
Senate soon after lawmakers return from their Thanksgiving
break.  The Senate panel also had planned today to consider Allen’s
nomination to become the next commander of U.S. forces in  Europe 
and of NATO.  Nomination Delayed  Allen’s nomination was placed on hold this week while the
Pentagon’s inspector general reviews e-mails he exchanged with a
Florida woman, Jill Kelley, whose complaints to the FBI
triggered disclosures that resulted in the resignation last week
of CIA director David Petraeus over an extramarital affair.  Dunford said today that he didn’t yet have a view on the
pace of further U.S. withdrawals from Afghanistan. Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , the committee’s top Republican, urged
delaying “the future withdrawal of U.S. forces until 2014, so
as to give our commanders maximum flexibility and combat power
to achieve our goals.”  McCain said the prospects for success in Afghanistan are
being undercut by “the fundamental doubt about America’s
resolve in this conflict.”  Dunford, who’s now the Marine deputy commandant, said in
written answers to policy questions posed by the committee that
Afghan security forces face challenges involving leadership,
logistics, improvised roadside bombs, desertions and illiteracy.  Afghanistan’s insurgency has been weakened, although the
Taliban “remains vested in southern Afghanistan, the Pashtun’s
ideological homeland, and enjoys the support of the Haqqani
network focused on eastern Afghanistan and Kabul,” Dunford
said.  Insider attacks that have claimed the lives of 53 NATO and
U.S. troops and wounded at least 80 so far haven’t had “the
longer-term detrimental effect on morale the insurgents
desire,” Dunford said.  McCain said “it is hard to overstate the damage these
kinds of attacks do to the morale of our troops and to our
broader mission of supporting the growth and professionalism of
Afghan forces.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  