-- Dynavax Falls After Vaccine Fails to Win Panel Backing
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-11-16T14:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/dynavax-s-hepatitis-b-vaccine-fails-to-win-panel-backing.html
Dynavax Technologies Corp. (DVAX)  tumbled
the most in four years after its hepatitis B vaccine Heplisav
failed to win the backing of U.S. regulatory advisers as the
drugmaker seeks to bring its first product to market.  Dynavax fell 50 percent to $2.33 at 9:34 a.m.  New York 
time, after dropping as low as $2.26 for its biggest intraday
decline since Oct. 22, 2008. While Heplisav works to treat the
contagious liver disease, Dynavax didn’t provide adequate safety
data to support approval, Food and Drug Administration advisers
voted yesterday.  Dynavax, based in Berkeley,  California , billed the drug as
a way to protect healthy adults 18 to 70 years old. Panel
members that called Heplisav promising cited the small number of
patients Dynavax studied given the vaccine’s potential to cause
rare autoimmune diseases.  “Since we have vaccines that maybe aren’t as optimal as we
want but are effective, that is too flimsy,” Edgar Marcuse, a
panel member and associate medical director at Seattle
Children’s Hospital, said during the meeting in  Silver Spring ,
 Maryland .  Dynavax shares had risen 39 percent this year through Nov.
14. Regular trading was halted yesterday for the meeting. The
FDA, set to make a decision on the vaccine by Feb. 24, isn’t
required to follow the advisory panel’s guidance.  If approved, Heplisav is expected to generate $775 million
in peak worldwide sales in 2020, Katherine Xu, an analyst with
William Blair & Co. in New York, said in an e-mail. Dynavax
reported $22 million in revenue in 2011.  Body Fluids  Hepatitis B, like HIV, is transmitted through the exchange
of body fluids such as blood, saliva or semen, according to the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It attacks the
liver, which removes toxins from the body, and can lead to
scarring, cancer or organ failure.  The Dynavax vaccine worked as well after two doses as three
doses of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Engerix-B vaccine to protect
patients against the virus, FDA staff said in a Nov. 13 report.
The advisory panel yesterday voted 13-1 that Heplisav works and
split 8-5 with one abstention that the safety data was
inadequate.  Dynavax studied 2,400 patients and suggested a study once
Heplisav is on the market would need to look at 30,000 people
using the vaccine to detect whether it may be linked to rare
illnesses. Two main trials on the vaccine weren’t set up to
detect rare adverse events, according to the Nov. 13 report.  Clinical Trials  Agency staff recommended evaluation of Heplisav after the
drug is on the market because some patients experienced
autoimmune diseases.  One woman experienced Wegener’s granulomatosis, a rare
disease in which blood vessels are inflamed and another woman
developed Guillain-Barre syndrome, a disorder in which the
body’s immune system attacks the nerves. The woman with
Guillain-Barre syndrome also received an influenza vaccine that
was thought to have caused the disorder rather than Heplisav.  The FDA put a hold on two clinical trials in March 2008
after a patient given the vaccine was diagnosed with Wegener’s
granulomatosis. U.S. regulators allowed testing to resume in
September 2009.  In a final-phase study of about 2,400 patients ages 18 to
55, 95 percent of those who took two doses of Heplisav were
protected from hepatitis B, compared with 81 percent of those
who took three doses of Glaxo’s Engerix-B, FDA staff said in the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  