-- LME Says Warehouses May Have to Deliver Extra 500 Tons a Day
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-11-15T15:17:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/lme-says-warehouses-may-have-to-deliver-extra-500-tons-a-day-3-.html
Warehouses approved by the London
Metal Exchange may be required to deliver more to reduce the
impact that long wait times for certain metals have on access to
other materials, according to a bourse proposal.  A warehouse company that has at least 30,000 metric tons of
a certain metal scheduled for delivery at a single location may
have to deliver an extra 500 tons of other metal on top of the
existing minimum delivery rates, the LME said in a notice to
members today. People wanting to comment on the proposal are
asked to do so by Dec. 7, the bourse said.  The LME will require warehouses to deliver at least a
further 60 tons of nickel or tin, or both, each day from April,
it said in August. A steering committee, which reconvened in
October to review the minimum delivery rates, received 13
comments on the rules, the bourse said. The exchange doubled in
April a minimum amount required to be delivered by warehouse
companies with the largest stockpiles.  The existing requirement “goes as far as is reasonable to
address the effect on the aluminum market of long aluminum
queues in some locations,” the exchange said in the notice.
“Such queues are the result of broader macro-economic forces at
play in the aluminum industry.”  Comments submitted to the steering committee identified
issues including a possible effect on the aluminum market of
long aluminum wait times in some locations and the possible
effect on other metal markets, according to the notice.  Delivery Rates  Current LME minimum delivery rates require at least 3,000
tons of any metal to be delivered each day for stockpiles above
900,000 tons at a single location. Metal buyers have to wait as
long as 59 weeks for metal in  Detroit , which stores 1.63 million
tons of metals. A total 820,225 tons of aluminum, or 92 percent
of all bookings there, await delivery, compared with 40,625 tons
of lead and 10,100 tons of zinc. Detroit is the biggest LME
repository of aluminum.  Owners of aluminum in the Dutch port of Vlissingen, the
second-biggest location for the lightweight metal, may have to
wait as long as 54 weeks for metals there. The LME delisted
Vlissingen as a location for copper storage in April after a
recommendation by the exchange’s copper committee.  The steering committee comprises Chief Executive Officer
 Martin Abbott , Deputy CEO and Director of Compliance and
Regulation Diarmuid O’Hegarty and  Robert Hall , head of physical
operations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  