-- EADS Satcom Venture Sees Customer Shift on Afghanistan Drawdown
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-11-15T12:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/eads-satcom-venture-sees-customer-shift-on-afghanistan-drawdown.html
The  European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. (EAD)  venture deploying a U.K. military satellite
communications system predicted civil customers will gain
importance as troops are withdrawn from  Afghanistan .  “There may be a shift in balance from purely military to
more civil security usage,” Simon Kershaw, executive director
of government communications at EADS’s Astrium Services unit,
said in a telephone interview.  Next month should see the launch of the last dedicated
Skynet 5 satellite built under the 3.6 billion-pound ($5.8
billion) private finance initiative signed in 2003. The final
element will follow next year with the launch of the Telesat
Anik G1, on which Astrium has acquired the highly secure X-band
payload for the military to augment the Skynet 5 satellites.  “We are already seeing a reduction in usage from the
austerity in Western governments and the drawdown,” Kershaw
said. Demand for the available communications capacity is likely
to be taken up by organizations involved in emergency management
and humanitarian relief, he said.  Military demand won’t evaporate, even at a time defense
spending is contracting, he said. As the U.K. and others reduce
the number of troops in Afghanistan, the use of unmanned
aircraft will rise, boosting demand for bandwidth, Kershaw said.
The company has sold communications capacity to other forces,
including the U.S. Department of Defense and NATO.  Skynet 5D, which is due for a mid-December launch on an
Ariane 5 rocket sold by Arianespace, a consortium that includes
EADS,  Safran SA (SAF) , and  Thales SA (HO) , was delivered yesterday to
French Guiana where the European spaceport is located,
Arianespace said in a statement.  Presold Capacity  The satellite will allow Astrium to provide near-global X-
band coverage with the constellation, Kershaw said. The number
of UHF-communication channels will about double on the latest
model, and the company has sold the “vast majority’ of
capacity, Kershaw said.  The Skynet 5 program is about halfway through its life,
with service provision to run until at least 2022, prompting
initial discussions between Astrium and the U.K. government
about follow-on plans. Technology studies are being undertaken,
Kershaw said.  International cooperation may be possible. The French
Syracuse communications satellite system will need to be
replaced around the same timeframe as Skynet 5, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  