-- Heathrow Limit Costs U.K. 14 Billion Pounds, Airport Says
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-11-15T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/heathrow-limit-costs-u-k-14-billion-pounds-airport-says.html
Limited capacity at  London ’s
Heathrow Airport costs the U.K. as much as 14 billion pounds
($22.2 billion) a year in lost trade as other European hubs
boost connections to growing economies like China and Peru, the
airport operator said.  Twenty-six emerging market destinations are connected with
daily flights to other European cities, Heathrow Airport Ltd.
said in a report released today in partnership with consultant
 Frontier Economics . Among destinations lacking links are Chengdu
and Hangzhou in China,  Manila  and  Lima .  The U.K. needs a single hub airport to maximize the
nation’s connectivity and boost economic growth, Heathrow Chief
Executive Officer Colin Matthews told reporters in London. The
government must either increase capacity at Heathrow, Europe’s
largest hub, or build a new hub airport, the executive said. The
 trade gap  could almost double to 26 billion pounds by 2030 if
nothing is done to improve the country’s air transport links,
according to the report.  London’s airports are suffering a capacity squeeze, with
Gatwick and Heathrow close to full as  Boris Johnson , the city’s
mayor, pledges to block any expansion in favor of a new hub in
the Thames Estuary. Prime Minister  David Cameron , who decided in
2010 not to sanction a third Heathrow runway, ordered an inquiry
into capacity requirements that’s due to report after the next
U.K. election in 2015.  Runway Capacity  The airport attracted 69.4 million passengers in 2011 and
is operating close to the capacity of its two runways, with
480,000 flights annually. Unable to add new routes without
cutting links to existing destinations, the hub is losing
traffic to Paris and Frankfurt, which both have enough runway
capacity to serve about 700,000 flights a year. More than 1,500
flights are flown to mainland  China ’s three largest cities out
of Paris and Frankfurt than from Heathrow, Matthews said.  Heathrow also needs to add capacity to accommodate new
links, while maintaining existing connections that wouldn’t be
lucrative from other airports, Matthews said. The hub connects
to 75 long-haul destinations that are not served and would not
be served by any other airport in the U.K., he said. By
operating through Heathrow, airlines are able to pool travelers
willing to pay a premium to fly direct with transfer passengers
looking for cheaper fares, he said. Daily direct long-haul
flights to destinations like Hyderabad,  India , or Mexico City
would be uneconomic without transfer traffic, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  