-- ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for November (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t i a n   S i e d e n b u r g
-- 2012-11-15T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-november-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s November monthly bulletin:  ﻿Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 8 November to keep
the key ECB interest rates unchanged. Owing to high energy
prices and increases in indirect taxes in some euro area
countries, inflation rates are likely to remain above 2% for the
remainder of 2012. They are expected to fall below that level in
the course of next year and to remain in line with  price
stability  over the policy-relevant horizon. Consistent with this
picture, the underlying pace of monetary expansion continues to
be subdued. Inflation expectations for the euro area remain
firmly anchored in line with the Governing Council’s aim of
maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the
medium term. Economic activity in the euro area is expected to
remain weak, although it continues to be supported by the
Governing Council’s monetary policy stance and financial market
confidence has visibly improved on the back of its decisions as
regards Outright Monetary Transactions (OMTs). At the same time,
the necessary process of balance sheet adjustment in large parts
of the financial and non-financial sectors as well as high
uncertainty continue to weigh on the economic outlook. It is
essential for governments to support confidence by forcefully
implementing the necessary steps to reduce both fiscal and
structural imbalances and to proceed with financial sector
restructuring.  The Governing Council remains firmly committed to preserving the
singleness of its monetary policy and to ensuring the proper
transmission of the policy stance to the real economy throughout
the euro area. It is ready to undertake OMTs, which will help to
avoid extreme scenarios, thereby clearly reducing concerns about
the materialisation of destructive forces.  As regards the economic analysis, euro area real GDP contracted
by 0.2%, quarter on quarter, in the second quarter of 2012,
following flat growth in the previous quarter. As regards the
second half of 2012, the available indicators continue to signal
weak activity. While industrial production data showed some
resilience in July/August, most recent survey evidence for the
economy as a whole, extending into the fourth quarter, does not
signal improvements towards the end of the year.  ﻿Looking ahead to next year, the growth momentum is expected to
remain weak. It continues to be supported by the ECB’s standard
and non-standard monetary policy measures, but the necessary
process of balance sheet adjustment in the financial and non-
financial sectors and an uneven global recovery will continue to
dampen the pace of recovery. The risks surrounding the economic
outlook for the euro area remain on the downside.  Euro area annual HICP inflation was 2.5% in October 2012,
according to Eurostat’s flash estimate, compared with 2.6% in
September and August. On the basis of current futures prices for
oil, inflation rates could remain at elevated levels, before
declining to below 2% again in the course of next year. Over the
policy-relevant horizon, in an environment of modest growth in
the euro area and well-anchored long-term inflation
expectations, underlying price pressures should remain moderate.
Current levels of inflation should thus remain transitory. The
Governing Council will continue to monitor closely further
developments in costs, wages and prices.  Risks to the outlook for price developments continue to be
broadly balanced over the medium term. Upside risks pertain to
further increases in indirect taxes owing to the need for fiscal
consolidation. The main downside risks relate to the impact of
weaker than expected growth in the euro area, in the event of a
renewed intensification of financial market tensions, and its
effects on the domestic components of inflation.  Turning to the monetary analysis, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion continues to be subdued. In September the
annual growth rate of M3 decreased to 2.7%, from 2.8% in August.
Monthly outflows from M3 reflected to some extent the reversal
of portfolio shifts into the most liquid components of M3.
Accordingly, the annual rate of growth of M1 declined to 5.0% in
September, from 5.2% in August. At the same time, a
strengthening in the deposit base of banks in some stressed
countries was observed, amid improvements in investors’
confidence in the euro area.  ﻿The annual growth rate of loans to the private sector (adjusted
for loan sales and securitisation) declined further to -0.4% in
September, from -0.2% in August. This development was mainly due
to further net redemptions in loans to non-financial
corporations, which led to an annual rate of decline in these
loans of -1.2%, compared with -0.5% in August. The annual growth
in MFI lending to households remained unchanged at 0.9% in
September. To a large extent, subdued loan dynamics reflect the
weak outlook for GDP, heightened  risk aversion  and the ongoing
adjustment in the balance sheets of households and enterprises,
all of which weigh on credit demand. At the same time, in a
number of euro area countries, the segmentation of financial
markets and capital constraints for banks restrict credit
supply. The recent results of the bank lending survey for the
third quarter of 2012 underpin this assessment.  The soundness of banks’ balance sheets will be a key factor in
facilitating both an appropriate provision of credit to the
economy and the normalisation of all funding channels, thereby
contributing to an adequate transmission of monetary policy to
the financing conditions of the non-financial sectors in the
individual countries of the euro area. It is thus essential that
the resilience of banks continues to be strengthened where
needed.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  Other economic policy areas need to make substantial
contributions to ensure a further stabilisation of financial
markets and an improvement in the outlook for growth. Structural
reforms are crucial to boost the growth potential of euro area
countries and to enhance employment. Policy action is also
necessary to increase the adjustment capacity of euro area
economies in order to complete the ongoing process of unwinding
existing imbalances. Visible progress is being made in the
correction of unit labour costs and current account imbalances.
However, further measures to enhance labour market flexibility
and labour mobility across the euro ﻿area are warranted. Such
structural measures would also complement and support fiscal
consolidation and debt sustainability. As regards fiscal
policies, there is clear evidence that consolidation efforts in
euro area countries are bearing fruit. It is crucial that
efforts are maintained to restore sound fiscal positions, in
line with the commitments under the Stability and Growth Pact
and the 2012 European Semester recommendations. Full compliance
with the reinforced EU fiscal and governance framework,
including the rapid implementation of the fiscal compact, will
send a strong signal to markets and strengthen confidence in the
soundness of public finances.  The Governing Council takes note of the European Council
conclusions on completing Economic and Monetary Union, adopted
on 18 October 2012. In the context of measures to achieve an
integrated financial framework, it welcomes in particular the
objective of agreeing on the legislative framework for a Single
Supervisory Mechanism (SSM) by 1 January 2013 with a view to the
SSM becoming operational in the course of 2013.  This issue of the Monthly Bulletin contains two articles. The
first article reviews developments in inflation differentials
within the euro area over the past decade and identifies factors
behind such developments. The second article takes stock of
recent economic and financial developments in EU candidate
countries and outlines the challenges that remain ahead on the
road to EU membership.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristian Siedenburg in Vienna at 
 ksiedenburg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  