-- ECB Says Economists Cut Growth Outlook, Raise Price Forecast
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-11-15T09:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/ecb-says-economists-cut-growth-outlook-raise-price-forecast-1-.html
The  European Central Bank  said
professional forecasters cut their estimates for the euro-area
economy while raising their inflation expectations.  The economy will contract 0.5 percent this year, more than
the 0.3 percent contraction anticipated three months ago,
according to the ECB’s quarterly survey of professional
forecasters published today. Forecasters lowered their estimate
for 2013 growth to 0.3 percent from 0.6 percent and their
projection for 2014 to 1.3 percent from 1.4 percent, the ECB
said. Inflation is seen at 2.5 percent this year and 1.9 percent
next year, up from 2.3 percent and 1.7 percent respectively.  European policy makers are trying to contain a sovereign
debt crisis that has pushed five countries into seeking bailouts
and taken the 17-nation euro economy to the brink of recession.
The ECB said the economic outlook for the euro area remains
“weak” as the debt crisis undermines confidence.  “It is essential for governments to support confidence by
forcefully implementing the necessary steps to reduce both
fiscal and structural imbalances and to proceed with financial
sector restructuring,” the central bank said in its monthly
bulletin today, which echoes President  Mario Draghi ’s Nov. 8
policy statement.  The ECB in September unveiled a new government bond
purchasing program called Outright Monetary Transactions aimed
at stemming surging borrowing costs in Spain and  Italy . Yields
have since fallen even though neither country has asked for the
program to be activated.  Still, “we are ready to undertake OMTs, which will help to
avoid extreme scenarios, thereby clearly reducing concerns about
the materialization of destructive forces,” the ECB said.  Inflation risks are “broadly balanced” over the medium
term and the inflation rate should fall below 2 percent, the
ECB’s definition of  price stability , “over the course of next
year,” the ECB said. Risks to the economic outlook remain on
the downside, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in Brussels at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  