-- Economists See BOJ Pausing Next Week Before December Poll
-- B y   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a ,   I s a a c   A q u i n o   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-11-16T05:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/economists-see-boj-pausing-next-week-before-december-election.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  may hold off from
adding to stimulus next week after it eased in September and
October, as elections next month look set to increase pressure
on it to do more to support an economy at risk of recession.  All 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s board to take no new action at a
two-day meeting through Nov. 20. At its last meeting on Oct. 30,
the BOJ increased asset purchases by 11 trillion yen ($136
billion), announced a new lending program and signed a joint
statement with the government on ending deflation.  Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda will dissolve parliament
today, triggering an election on Dec. 16 that polls suggest his
party will lose. Shinzo Abe, the leader of the main opposition
Liberal Democratic Party, called yesterday for the bank to
pursue unlimited monetary stimulus to end deflation and revive
an economy that shrank last quarter at the fastest pace since
2011’s earthquake.  “The BOJ doesn’t have much time for a breather as it may
have to move as early as December,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief
economist at Norinchukin Research Institute in Tokyo. “The bank
will remain under pressure as no data indicate that its 1
percent inflation goal is in sight.”  An LDP panel today released a statement proposing the
establishment of a joint private-public fund to buy foreign
bonds in a bid to defeat deflation and weaken the yen, without
giving further details.  The economy will contract 0.4 percent this quarter
according to a separate Bloomberg News survey, which would be
the third technical recession since 2008. Consumer prices fell
for a fifth month in September.  The BOJ may add to stimulus at its next meeting on Dec.
19-20 if the U.S. Federal Reserve also acts at its gathering on
Dec. 11-12, said Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at JPMorgan
Securities Japan Co. and a former central bank official.
American monetary expansion risks weakening the dollar and
driving up the yen, making Japanese exports less competitive.
Sixteen economists in the survey forecast that the BOJ will add
extra easing in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masahiro Hidaka in  Tokyo  at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net ;
Isaac Aquino in Tokyo at 
 iaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  