-- Telecom Italia to Discuss GVT Bid, Weighs Sawiris Offer
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-11-16T15:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/telecom-italia-to-discuss-gvt-bid-weighs-sawiris-offer.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s board will meet
to discuss a potential bid for  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Brazilian phone unit
GVT next month, while also considering whether to accept
billionaire Naguib Sawiris’s offer to buy a stake.  “If we wanted to make a quantum jump, the opportunity is
big,” Telecom Italia Chief Operating Officer Marco Patuano said
yesterday at an event organized by Morgan Stanley in Barcelona.
“An asset like this is for sale once every I don’t know how
many years.”  GVT, which Vivendi bought in 2009 after trumping a bid from
 Telefonica SA (TEF) , is valued at 6 billion euros ($7.6 billion) to 7
billion euros, according to Sanford C. Bernstein analyst  Claudio Aspesi . Vivendi has hired Rothschild and Deutsche Bank AG to
study options for GVT, and  DirecTV (DTV)  is among companies evaluating
a bid, people familiar with the matter said in September. Paris-
based Vivendi is seeking at least 7 billion euros, said one
person, who asked not to be identified because the discussions
are confidential.  “It’s mandatory for the board to consider this
possibility, and if the board considers it’s interesting, then
we have to evaluate how, and then Mr. Sawiris’s offer is an
alternative,” Patuano said yesterday, referring to a board
meeting on Dec. 6.  The gathering had been scheduled irrespective of
discussions about GVT, a Telecom Italia representative said.  Sawiris Letter  Telecom Italia fell 4.5 percent to 68 cents at 4:23 p.m. in
Milan. The company said in a statement it’s still reviewing a
possible spinoff of its fixed-line network, after Il Sole 24
reported that the plan may be called off as talks with state
lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti SpA about an investment in the
network reached a “dead end.”  A representative at Cassa Depositi declined to comment.  The carrier’s board last week received a letter from
Sawiris expressing interest in acquiring new shares in Milan-
based Telecom Italia, but didn’t discuss “any kind of detail,”
Patuano said. If the board says that GVT is too expensive or
there aren’t enough synergies and decides not to proceed, “at
that time it’s clear we don’t have such a need” to raise funds,
he said.  Patuano declined to comment on the size of Sawiris’s
potential investment, saying that would be “implying a level of
discussions that’s not the case.”  Sawiris may invest more than 2 billion euros in Telecom
Italia, a person familiar with the matter said this week.  Stake Dilution  A sale of new shares would dilute the stakes held by
Madrid-based Telefonica,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Mediobanca
SpA (MB)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , which together own about 22 percent
of Telecom Italia through holding company Telco SpA.  Angel Vila, Telefonica’s finance chief, said at the same
event in Barcelona this week that he doesn’t expect Telecom
Italia will need a capital increase.  Telefonica, Spain’s biggest phone company, and Telecom
Italia compete in  Brazil , where they control the top mobile
carriers by subscribers, and in  Argentina .  Patuano reiterated that Telecom Italia’s priority is to
deleverage, which the company can do with its free cash flow.
Telecom Italia has a debt pile that is more than twice its
market value. It targets adjusted  net debt  at the end of this
year to drop to 27.5 billion euros ($35 billion) from 29.5
billion euros at the end of September.  Sawiris made his first major venture into  Italy  in 2005,
when he bought Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA, the country’s third-
largest mobile-phone provider.  Telecom Italia is working on transferring technology for
content like music and videos as well as on-demand services from
its home market to help generate higher sales in its South
American markets, Patuano said.  Separately, the carrier expects a second round of offers
for its Telecom Italia Media unit at the beginning of next
month, before the scheduled board meeting, the executive said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Barcelona  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Montpellier, France at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  