-- Telefonica’s Record-Low Borrowing Costs Spur Talk of Bond Sale
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-11-15T13:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/telefonica-s-record-low-borrowing-costs-spur-talk-of-bond-sale.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s borrowing costs fell
to the lowest ever compared with the Spanish government, stoking
speculation the time is ripe for the nation’s biggest phone
company to sell bonds again.  “Telefonica is permanently monitoring the market to find
windows of opportunity,” said Miguel Angel Garzon, a Madrid-
based spokesman for the phone company. Arnaud Colombel at La
Postale Asset Management in Paris, which oversees 130 billion
euros ($166 billion) of assets including Telefonica bonds, said
“it could make sense” for the company to issue.  The yield on Telefonica’s 1 billion euros of 3.661 percent
bonds due September 2017 dropped to 127 basis points below
comparable government debt as of 1:20 p.m. in  Madrid , close to a
record 128 basis-point gap on Nov. 8, according to Bloomberg
prices. The Spanish phone company’s borrowing costs were higher
than the sovereign’s as recently as September.  Telefonica’s access to debt markets is improving amid a
credit rally spurred by the European Central Bank’s support for
regional governments, and since the Spanish company offloaded
assets to reduce debt. The Madrid-based telecoms provider last
issued bonds on Oct. 5, when it sold 1.2 billion euros of 4.71
percent senior notes due January 2020, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Telefonica will continue to take advantage of windows of
opportunity to continue with its good progress made so far to
refinance its debt” through to “the end of 2014,” Carlos Winzer, an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service in Madrid, said
in an interview. The ratings company grades Telefonica at Baa2,
two levels above junk status and equivalent to Standard & Poor’s
BBB assessment.  The company is “consistent in improving its financial
flexibility,” Finance Chief Angel Vila said in an interview
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  