-- Emerging Market Stocks Slump in Longest Streak Since July
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-11-15T22:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/emerging-stocks-fall-for-sixth-day-as-china-unveils-new-leaders.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
sixth day, the longest losing streak since July, on prospects
China’s new leadership will put off policy changes needed to
reform the economy.  Volcan Cia. (VOLCABC1)  Minera SAA led declines after
MSCI Inc. removed the mining company from its Peru index.  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s biggest Internet company,
dropped the most in 13 months in Hong Kong as profit missed
analysts’ estimates. Gedeon  Richter Nyrt ., Hungary’s biggest
drugmaker, and Taiwan’s  Inotera Memories Inc. (3474)  slid after MSCI
said they will be removed from benchmark indexes.  Embotelladora
Andina SA (ANDINAB) , a Chilean soft-drink bottler, rose after shares were
added to the MSCI Chile Index.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.6 percent to 974.33
in New York. The gauge’s losing streak is the longest since a
seven-day drop through July 12. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
lost 1.2 percent as the official Xinhua News Agency announced Xi
Jinping had replaced  Hu Jintao  as head of the Chinese Communist
Party. Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  signaled that Israel
is ready to escalate its military operations against Gaza after
at a missile was fired at Tel Aviv by Palestinian militants.  China’s new leadership is “not as pro-reformist a group as
the market would like. Initially, that may have disappointed
some people,”  Michael Wang , an  emerging-markets  strategist at
Amiya Capital LLP in  London , said by phone. “Also the Israeli
conflict is heightening geopolitical risk.”  Kospi, Won  Russia’s ruble strengthened for a second day while the
Micex Index gained 1 percent. The South Korean won weakened 0.2
percent versus the dollar from a 14-month high amid concerns
over $607 billion in automatic tax increases and spending cuts
due to be enacted in the U.S. next year. The  Kospi (KOSPI)  index in
South Korea, which sends about 10 percent of its exports to the
U.S., slid 1.2 percent to a three-month low.  The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  sank to a two-week low after
the government failed to meet a fundraising target in a sale of
mobile-phone airwaves. Benchmark indexes in Hungary and the
Czech Republic slid, while gauges in Poland and Turkey rose.  MSCI’s index of developing-nation  equities  has advanced 6.3
percent this year, surpassing the 6 percent gain by the MSCI
World Index of developed countries. The emerging-markets gauge
trades at 11.3 times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI
World’s 12.9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 303 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  Missed Estimates  Tencent retreated 7 percent in  Hong Kong . Third-quarter  net
income  of 3.22 billion yuan ($517 million) missed the 3.33
billion-yuan average estimate in a Bloomberg analyst survey. Of
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index  companies  that reported profit
for the period, 55 percent trailed estimates, compared with 58
percent in the previous quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Naspers Ltd., Africa’s biggest media group and Tencent’s
associate, declined 1.7 percent in Johannesburg.  Dongkuk Steel Mill Co. (001230)  dropped 5.5 percent in Seoul and
Inotera, a memory-chip maker, slid 1.1 percent to a record low
after MSCI Inc. announced their removal from indexes. Richter,
which will also be excluded, lost 5.5 percent, the most since
September 2011, in Budapest.  Volcan Cia.,  Peru ’s largest silver, zinc and lead producer,
sank the most since June 6, plunging 12 percent after the index
provider removed the company from the country index.  MSCI Decision  Embotelladora Andina rose 1.6 percent, the most since Oct.
18, upon its addition to the MSCI Chile Index. No deletions were
made for the country’s benchmark, according to a statement on
the MSCI’s website. Brazilian markets were closed for a holiday.  OAO Sberbank, Russia’s biggest lender, gained 1.7 percent,
the most in six weeks, after MSCI boosted Sberbank’s weighting.  China Construction Bank Corp., the nation’s second-largest
bank, dropped 2.7 percent.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd. , the biggest lender, lost 2 percent.  Non-performing loans  at Chinese banks rose for a fourth
straight quarter, gaining 22.4 billion  yuan  in the three months
ended Sept. 30, to 478.8 billion yuan, the China Banking
Regulatory Commission said today. Bad loans gained at all types
of banking institutions, including the largest state-owned
lenders, rural banks and foreign banks, the regulator said.  China’s new leadership inherits an economy set to expand
this year at the slowest pace  since 1999 , stymied by lagging
growth in the U.S. and European Union. The euro-area economy
contracted 0.1 percent in the third quarter, slipping into
recession for the second time in four years, a Luxembourg-based
statistics office said today.  “The composition of the top leaders indicates a go-slow
approach to reforms of the financial markets and the economy and
not in an aggressive way as expected by the market,” said Dai Ming, a  fund manager  at Hengsheng Hongding Asset Management Co.
in Shanghai, which manages $190 million. “That’s a bit
negative.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  