-- Lenny Dykstra Should Get 30 Months in Prison, U.S. Says
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-11-15T22:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/lenny-dykstra-should-get-30-months-in-prison-u-s-says.html
Ex-New York Mets outfielder  Lenny Dykstra , who pleaded guilty to bankruptcy fraud in July, should
be sentenced to 30 months in prison, federal prosecutors said,
citing his “arrogant world view.”  “Defendant has acted as if he was above the law for years,
disregarding those who stood between him and what he wanted.”
U.S. prosecutors said today in a sentencing recommendation filed
in federal court in Los Angeles. “Only a significant sentence
will bring home to defendant that he has to abide by the same
rules as everyone else.”  Dykstra, 49, pleaded guilty in July to looting valuables
from his $18 million mansion north of Los Angeles and secretly
selling them after his bankruptcy filing in 2009. He admitted to
one count each of bankruptcy fraud, concealment of bankruptcy
property and  money laundering .  On top of the bankruptcy charges, the former Major League
Baseball player was convicted last year for trying to lease cars
using phony business cards and credit information and is now
serving three years in state prison. He was convicted in April
of lewd conduct and assault and sentenced to 270 days in prison.  Gretzky House  In the bankruptcy matter, prosecutors said he defrauded his
creditors, after he filed for bankruptcy, by stripping the
mansion he had bought two years earlier from former National
Hockey League player  Wayne Gretzky  of valuables including art,
high-end stoves, sconces and plumbing fixtures. He also secretly
sold his baseball memorabilia, prosecutors said.  “Defendant broke the law because he wanted to line his own
pockets and damage his creditors, and because he, as the
celebrity Lenny Dykstra, thought he was untouchable and could
get away with it,” prosecutors said in their filing.  Dykstra filed his own sentencing papers under seal
yesterday. U.S. District Judge Dean Pregerson is scheduled to
sentence him on Dec. 3. Dykstra’s lawyer, federal public
defender Christopher Dybwad, didn’t immediately return a call to
his office for comment on the government’s recommendation.  The case is U.S. v. Dykstra, 11-00415, U.S. District Court,
Central District of  California  ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  