-- Hertz Dollar Thrifty Purchase Cleared by U.S. Regulator
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-11-16T14:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/hertz-dollar-thrifty-purchase-cleared-by-u-s-regulator.html
Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ) ’s $2.6
billion purchase of Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc. was
cleared by U.S. antitrust regulators yesterday after almost a
half-decade of trying and some late-hour concessions for
regulators concerned the deal would limit competition.  Hertz agreed to sell 62 Advantage brand outlets along with
the rights to operate 29 Dollar Thrifty on-airport locations,
the U.S. Federal Trade Commission said in a  statement . Sixteen
of the airport outlets were part of the original deal between
the companies, and the FTC demanded that 13 more be sold after
the deal closes to maintain competition in those markets.  The acquisition solidifies Hertz’s place as the second-
biggest in the U.S. rental-car market, ahead of  Avis Budget
Group Inc. (CAR)  Enterprise Holdings Inc., which operates the
Enterprise, Alamo and National brands, is the biggest. Giving
Hertz two lower-priced leisure brands to balance its premium
namesake brand is a positive for the industry, said Chris Agnew,
a  Stamford , Connecticut-based analyst at MKM Partners LLC.  “It’s good for balanced, rational competition for the main
companies to have dual-brand strategies,” Agnew said yesterday
in a telephone interview. “Hertz with only one main brand had
created an imbalance.”  The FTC voted 4-1 in favor of approval after concessions by
Hertz, made in talks over the past two weeks, to shed the
additional locations to ease antitrust concerns as the market
shrunk from four major companies to three, people familiar with
the process said. Hertz may be able to keep Dollar and Thrifty
counters at some of those airports, Hertz said in its statement.  Market Share  Together, Hertz, Enterprise and Avis control about 75
percent of the market, with  Dollar Thrifty  holding 5 percent,
according to a February report from IBISWorld, the  Santa Monica ,
California-based industry researcher. No other competitor has
more than 1 percent of this year’s $30.5 billion market in the
U.S., according to IBISWorld.  Earlier in its negotiations with the agency, Hertz pledged
to sell its 62 Advantage-brand outlets in the U.S.  Franchise
Services of North America Inc.  and Macquarie Group Ltd.’s
Macquarie Capital. The purchase price was $16 million, one
person with knowledge of the situation has said. The sale is
dependent upon Hertz completing the acquisition of Tulsa,
Oklahoma-based Dollar Thrifty.  When Hertz announced the acquisition in late August, it
said it expected at least $160 million in annual cost-savings
and sales-growth potential. The moves to address the FTC’s
concerns shouldn’t change the benefit of the deal for Hertz,
Fred Lowrance, a Nashville, Tennessee-based analyst at Avondale
Partners LLC, said in an interview.  Benefits Maintained  “These concessions are not a needle-mover, for Hertz at
least,” Lowrance said. “Maybe it was for the FTC and their
view of what competition was like in the rental-car industry,
but this doesn’t change the economics of the deal.”  The FTC alleged that the acquisition as originally proposed
would have led to “substantially more concentration in 72
airport rental-car markets” and by eliminating head-to-head
competition between Hertz and Dollar Thrifty.  “American consumers rent more than 50 million vehicles at
airports nationwide each year, spending $11 billion, so this is
a real pocketbook issue for everyday people,” FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  said in the statement. “Today’s bipartisan action by
the FTC will ensure that consumers are not forced to pay higher
prices for rental cars when they travel.”  One Dissenter  Commissioner Tom Rosch dissented, saying he found the
divestitures “inadequate to resolve the competitive concerns at
several dozen other airports,” according to the statement.
Rosch said he would have challenged the transaction because of
the “significant risk” it could lead to higher prices and
disadvantage consumers in other ways through coordinated actions
by the remaining industry players.  The four largest companies -- Enterprise, Hertz, Avis
Budget Group Inc. and Dollar Thrifty -- have controlled 80
percent of the U.S. market, according to IBISWorld. Enterprise
will command 38 percent of the $30.5 billion market in the U.S.
this year, Hertz will have 18.9 percent, followed by Avis with
18.5 percent and Dollar Thrifty with about 5 percent.  The $87.50-a-share offer represents an 8 percent premium to
Dollar Thrifty’s closing price of  $81 (DTG)  on Aug. 24. The price is
more than twice the $41-a-share Hertz offered in April 2010.  Franchise Services, which operates the U-Save brand, is run
by Co-Chief Executive Officer Sanford Miller, the CEO of Budget
Group Inc. from 1997 to 2004. While the FTC staff raised
concerns about the strength of the buyer and its ability to
become a viable competitor, those questions weren’t deal-
breakers with regulators, the people said.  April 2007  Hertz began its pursuit of Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Dollar
Thrifty in April 2007 and made a formal bid of about $1.2
billion in 2010 that Dollar Thrifty shareholders rejected.  Park
Ridge , New Jersey-based Hertz made another offer last year that
it later withdrew, citing market conditions.  Hertz, with 8,750 outlets worldwide, has more than 3,900
U.S. locations, while Dollar Thrifty has about 280 corporate-
owned outlets in the U.S. and  Canada .  Last month, Hertz extended the FTC’s legal deadline for
ruling on the deal to Nov. 16 from Oct. 31 because the agency
hadn’t finished its review of information provided by the
companies, Hertz said in a statement. When Hertz announced the
proposed acquisition on Aug. 26, it said FTC approval was
expected by mid-October. People familiar with the deal said it
ran into resistance from some of the agency’s staff and
commissioners.  All Concerns  “The FTC requirement to add assets to the divestiture
package demonstrates the importance of ensuring that all
competition law concerns are resolved to obtain commission
approval,” said William Vigdor, an antitrust lawyer with Vinson
& Elkins LLP in  Washington , who served at the FTC for six years.  Hertz and Dollar Thrifty said the transaction is a two-step
process starting with a cash tender offer for all outstanding
shares of Dollar Thrifty followed by a cash merger to acquire
any remaining shares of common stock. The tender offer closes at
5 p.m.  New York  time.  Dollar Thrifty rose 0.6 percent to $87.48 at 9:40 a.m. in
New York, and Hertz jumped 3.1 percent to $14.69.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .
Mark Clothier in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 