-- ESPN Reaches 12-Year College Football Agreement With Orange Bowl
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-15T17:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/espn-reaches-12-year-college-football-agreement-with-orange-bowl.html
ESPN reached a 12-year agreement to
televise college football’s Orange Bowl, one day after
announcing a similar broadcast deal with the Sugar Bowl.  ESPN and the Atlantic Coast Conference didn’t disclose
financial terms of the agreement in separate news releases.
 ESPN.com reported  that the Walt Disney Co. network will pay $55
million annually for the Miami bowl game, which will match the
ACC champion against an opponent from the Big Ten or
Southeastern conferences, or the University of Notre Dame.  ESPN’s extended agreement with the Orange Bowl starts after
the 2014 season, when college football’s new four-team playoff
system also begins. The Orange Bowl, played on New Year’s Eve or
Jan. 1, is one of six games that will serve as rotating hosts
for the national semifinals.  “The Orange Bowl has a great history and we are very proud
to be part of extending that into the next decade,” ESPN
President John Skipper said in a statement.  ESPN announced yesterday that it reached a 12-year
agreement for the Sugar Bowl in New Orleans, which features the
Southeastern Conference and Big 12 champions. In June, ESPN
completed a 12-year deal with the Rose Bowl in  Pasadena ,
 California , which features the champions from the Big Ten and
Pacific-12.  Both agreements begin in January 2015 and run through 2026,
with  ESPN.com  reporting the network will pay $80 million
annually for the broadcast rights to each game.  The Sugar Bowl and Rose Bowl will also be among semifinal
hosts in the new playoff system, with the other three games yet
to be determined. The leading candidates are the Fiesta Bowl in
Glendale,  Arizona , the Cotton Bowl in Arlington,  Texas , and the
Chick-fil-A Bowl in Atlanta, ESPN has said. The location for the
sport’s national championship game will be up for bid each year,
similar to the process for the National Football League’s Super
Bowl.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  