-- EU Carbon Has Biggest Three-Day Drop Since 2006 on Bidding Ratio
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-11-15T16:41:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/eu-carbon-has-biggest-three-day-drop-since-2006-on-bidding-ratio.html
European Union carbon permits had
their biggest three-day drop since April 2006, extending losses
after there was a lower bidding ratio in a sale today than in
the previous four auctions.  There were bids for 4.96 million tons of carbon permits in
the EU auction on the European Energy Exchange AG, 1.2 times the
volume for sale, according to data from the bourse. The previous
ratio was 1.73 times, while the first sale by  Germany  on Oct. 26
had a ratio of 7.67 times.  EU carbon permits for December dropped as much as 11
percent to 7.06 euros ($9.03) a metric ton on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in London. They were at 7.24 euros at 4:21 p.m.
in London, taking their three-day decrease to 20 percent.  The bloc is boosting sales of allowances for 2013 even as
it seeks to fix a glut that may rise to about 2 billion tons by
the end of the decade, as low levels of economic production sap
demand, the European Commission said yesterday in a report. It
proposed Nov. 12 to temporarily reduce supply starting next year
to boost prices and encourage clean-energy investments.  “The ongoing low EU allowance price is indicating a
diluted cap and excessive supply,” said Miles Austin, executive
director of the Climate Markets and Investment Association in
 London . “This is what the European Commission needs to address,
not the price at which EU allowances are trading, which is a
symptom not a cause,” Austin said today by e-mail.  In today’s auction of spot allowances that can be used for
the third phase beginning next year, the EU sold at 7.30 euros a
ton, 3.6 percent below the prevailing market price for  spot
Phase 2 allowances , according to data from EEX and the BlueNext
SA exchange in Paris.  Bidding Rules  Should bids at future auctions fall below the volume being
offered, the EEX will cancel the sale, according to regulations
governing the process. Further, where the clearing price is
“significantly under the price on the secondary market,” the
auction will be called off, according to the rules.  Euro-area industrial production dropped the most in more
than three years in September, led by double-digit declines in
Portugal and Ireland, the EU’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  