-- Euro-Area Inflation Rate Fell to 2.5% in October on Energy Costs
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-11-15T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/euro-area-inflation-rate-fell-to-2-5-in-october-on-energy-costs.html
Euro-area inflation  slowed in
Ocotober as energy costs moderated and austerity measures to
tackle  budget deficits  hurt household spending and investment.  The annual  inflation rate  in the 17-nation currency bloc
fell to 2.5 percent, in line with a first estimate on Oct. 31,
from 2.6 percent in September, the European Union’s  statistics
office  in Luxembourg said today. In the month, prices rose 0.2
percent.  The  European Central Bank  left its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 0.75 percent on Nov. 8 after ECB President  Mario Draghi  said inflation risks are “very low” and the debt crisis
is starting to hurt Germany, Europe’s largest economy.  “There is a general downward trend of  core inflation  as
the recession should spread to most countries by the end of the
year,”  Dominique Barbet , an economist at BNP Paribas in Paris,
said by telephone. “Beyond the decline in energy prices, what
we are seeing is basically a low level of demand and production
as well as moderation in wage increases.”  The core inflation rate, excluding volatile costs such as
energy, alcohol and tobacco, held at 1.5 percent in October.
Energy costs rose 8 percent, after a 9.1 percent increase in
September.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s second-largest mobile-phone
company, said this week that it had a loss in the first half as
it missed service revenue estimates and took a 5.9 billion-pound
($9.4 billion) writedown in Spain and Italy.  Industrial production  in the euro zone fell 2.5 percent in
September from a month earlier, the sharpest drop since January
2009, data showed yesterday.  Schneider Electric SA (SU) , the world’s
biggest maker of low and medium-voltage equipment, cut its
target for 2012 revenue on Oct. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  