-- Euro Area Slips Into Recession Second Time in Four Years
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-11-15T12:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/euro-area-slides-into-recession-for-second-time-in-four-years.html
The euro-area  economy  succumbed to a
recession for the second time in four years as governments
imposed tougher budget cuts and leaders struggled to contain the
debt crisis that broke out in October 2009.  Gross domestic product  in the 17-nation bloc slipped 0.1
percent in the third quarter after a 0.2 percent decline in the
previous three months, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today. The result matched the median forecast in
a  Bloomberg News survey  of 44 economists, as unexpected strength
in  Germany  and  France  was outweighed by contractions elsewhere.  Europe’s economic malaise is deepening as governments
across the region impose budget cuts to narrow their fiscal
deficits. Spain and Cyprus this year joined the list of
countries seeking external aid, following Greece, Portugal and
Ireland. Unions across the region have held protests against
austerity measures.  “Overall I think it’s remarkable that we haven’t seen so
far in the last year a stronger decrease in economic activity
considering the strength of the euro-zone debt crisis,” said
 Alexander Krueger , chief economist at Bankhaus Lampe in
Dusseldorf. “Stopping the downward trend is the story for the
first half of next year.”  Slower German Growth  The euro was up 0.3 percent at 12:27 p.m. in Brussels,
trading at $1.2769. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index was down 0.6
percent.  The annual inflation rate in the euro area dropped to 2.5
percent annual in October from 2.6 percent the month before, the
statistics office said in a separate report today.  In Germany, Europe’s largest economy, GDP rose 0.2 percent
after a 0.3 percent gain in the previous three months. The
French economy expanded 0.2 percent, rebounding from a 0.1
percent contraction in the second quarter. Italy and Spain
contracted 0.2 percent and 0.3 percent, respectively. In the 27-
country EU, GDP rose 0.1 percent.  Greece and  Portugal  published third-quarter GDP figures
yesterday, which showed the Greek economy contracting for a 17th
straight quarter and the Portuguese economy completing its
second year in recession. By the end of this year Greek output
will have dropped by a fifth since it entered its recession in
2008.  Green Shoots  Europe’s economic gloom contrasts with signs of green
shoots in the U.S., where  housing demand  is strengthening and
companies are hiring, and China, where factory output and retail
sales are accelerating. The two countries are responsible for a
third of the world economy.  East Asian countries are poised to report gross domestic
product data that may mark the bottom of the region’s slowdown,
as signs of a recovery in  China  and the U.S. herald a revival in
demand for exports.  The European Commission last week cut its 2013 growth
forecast for the euro-area economy to 0.1 percent, down from a
May projection of 1 percent. The euro-area unemployment rate is
at a record 11.6 percent.  “The latest growth indicators around the world, as well as
the high levels of unemployment in the EU, raise concerns about
our economic prospects,” EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner Olli Rehn said yesterday. “The indicators point to
further short-term weakness.”  Savings Plan  Euro-area  industrial production  dropped 2.5 percent in
September from the previous month, the most in more than three
years, led by double-digit declines in Portugal and Ireland.
German investor confidence unexpectedly declined in November,
the ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim said
on Nov. 13.  Siemens AG, the biggest engineering company in  Europe , on
Nov. 8 unveiled a 6 billion-euro savings plan to restore
profitability, acknowledging it was slow to react to shrinking
demand. Commerzbank AG, which is forgoing its dividend, on Nov.
8 reported profit that missed analysts’ expectations on losses
from non-core assets and a decline in consumer banking earnings.  “As we’ve moved through the year we have seen some greater
pressure coming on to some of the core European economies as
well,” Myles Lee, chief executive officer of CRH Plc, a Dublin-
based building materials company, said in a Bloomberg TV
interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  