-- Needham & Co. Ex-CFO Charged in $1 Million Theft
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-11-15T22:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/ex-finance-chief-at-needham-co-charged-in-theft-correct-.html
Glen W. Albanese, a former chief
financial officer at the brokerage firm Needham & Co., was
charged with stealing $1 million to spend on wine, trips,
decorating and a designer breed of dog known as a labradoodle.  Albanese, 41, stole from the New York-based company from
2000 to December 2010 by directing vendors to submit phony
invoices, according to a  Federal Bureau  of Investigation arrest
complaint. He told one vendor to give him envelopes of cash,
while others paid his personal expenses, according to the FBI.  Albanese, of Manalapan,  New Jersey , spent the proceeds on
thousands of dollars of wine as well as interior decorating and
landscaping services, equestrian equipment, and more than
$40,000 in flights, hotels and travel, the FBI said. The
expenses included a fence for the labradoodle, according to
Matthew Reilly, a spokesman for New Jersey U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman.  “Glen Albanese happens to be one of the nicest
individuals, and characteristically you can characterize him as
an ultimate gentlemen,” said his attorney Joseph Benfante after
he appeared with Albanese today in federal court in Newark, New
Jersey. “If these charges are true, it is something that he has
never shown a propensity toward doing his entire life.”  U.S. Magistrate Judge Cathy L. Waldor released Albanese on
$200,000 bond secured by his house. Albanese appeared in court
in a grey hooded sweatshirt, and his hands were shackled.  He is charged with conspiracy to commit  wire fraud  and
faces as long as 20 years in prison.  Work History  Albanese worked at Needham from April 1997 to March 2011,
according to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. A
spokeswoman for Needham, Ingrid Thoonen, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on his arrest.  A Finra report said Albanese was permitted to resign on
Feb. 25, 2011, after an investigation showed he caused Needham
to pay $300,000 to an information technology services vendor for
services or products that were never rendered.  He also caused the firm to pay $2,600 to a ticket broker
for four seats at a game in the 2009  World Series , according to
Finra. In that series, the  New York  Yankees defeated the
 Philadelphia Phillies , four games to two.  World Series  “Albanese wrote on the ticket broker’s invoice that he
attended the World Series game with three other individuals,”
the Finra report said. “Albanese’s attendance at the World
Series game with the individuals listed on the invoice was not a
legitimate business expense.”  Albanese submitted a phony reimbursement that said
employees of Needham’s clearing firm, office furniture vendor
and printing vendor attended the game, according to Finra.  Albanese also caused the firm to pay about $28,700 to a
printing service vendor for unnecessary blank paper products and
$67,900 in overpayments for products, Finra said.  The case is U.S. v. Albanese, 12-cr-7289, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey ( Newark ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  