-- Ex-Mizuho Banker’s Girlfriends Not Guilty of Inside Trade
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-11-15T15:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/ex-mizuho-banker-s-girlfriends-not-guilty-of-inside-trade.html
Two girlfriends of former Mizuho
International Plc investment banker Thomas Ammann were found not
guilty of illegally trading on tips from him about  Canon Inc. (7751) ’s
acquisition of OCE NV.  The women nearly doubled the amount they invested and then
paid half of their profits to Ammann, the U.K. Financial
Services Authority, which prosecuted the case, had said during
the trial in London. Neither woman knew Ammann was dating the
other simultaneously.  Jessica Mang, a 30-year-old British chiropractor, and
Christina Weckwerth, 44, were both cleared today by the jury
after a four-week trial. Both cried when the verdicts were
returned and declined to comment afterward.  Ammann, a German national who worked on the Mizuho mergers
and acquisitions team that advised Canon on the OCE deal,
pleaded guilty earlier this year to insider trading and
encouraging Mang and Weckwerth to commit insider trading. Canon,
the Tokyo-based maker of cameras and photocopiers, agreed to buy
OCE in a 730 million-euro ($931.8 million) deal in November
2009.  The FSA said that Ammann tried to avoid being caught by
having his girlfriends make the trades.  “The charges against Weckwerth and Mang were serious and
we considered that the evidence provided a proper basis to put
the case before a jury,” Tracey McDermott, the regulator’s
director of enforcement and financial crime, said in a
statement.  Ammann’s Recommendation  Weckwerth, who has British and Cypriot citizenship, took in
nearly 2 million pounds ($3.2 million) after investing 1 million
euros before the deal in 2009, the FSA said at trial. She argued
that she bought shares of OCE only after she researched Ammann’s
recommendation.  Her own calculations showed her the shares, which were
trading at about 2.50 euros in early 2009, were worth about 7
euros based on their net asset value, she said. She said she
didn’t know his work was related to the tips and that he
repeatedly told her the shares were undervalued.  Mang, who got back 65,000 pounds on a 39,000-pound stake,
said she bought the shares at Ammann’s request because she
wanted to show him that she trusted him and was trying to build
their relationship. She met him in July 2009 at the  London 
 nightclub Movida  and said she thought soon after that they were
dating exclusively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  