-- Ex-New York State Comptroller Alan Hevesi Granted Parole
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-11-15T21:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/ex-new-york-state-comptroller-alan-hevesi-granted-parole.html
Former New York State Comptroller
Alan Hevesi, who was sentenced to as many as four years in
prison last year after pleading guilty in a pay-to-play scandal
at the pension fund he once ran, was granted parole.  Hevesi, 72, an inmate at the Mid-State Correctional
Facility in Marcy, was granted release by the state Board of
Parole following an appearance yesterday and may be freed as
soon as Dec. 19 after a “routine community preparation
investigation,” the Department of Corrections and Community
Service said in a statement today.  The board found that Hevesi “would not pose a probable
risk of safety to the community,” according to its decision.  Hevesi entered the state corrections system on April 15,
2011, and his earliest possible release date was April 14 of
this year, the department said. He had a conditional release
date of Dec. 14, 2013, and would have been released on April 14,
2015, if he served his maximum sentence.  Hevesi is scheduled to remain under community supervision
through April 14, 2015, the department said. He was denied
parole during his first appearance before the board last
November. Hevesi has been held at the prison’s protective
custody unit and received only one misbehavior report, for
refusing a direct order in August.  Former Lawmaker  Before his 2002 election as state comptroller, Hevesi
served for eight years as New York City’s comptroller. He spent
22 years in the state Assembly, representing a district in the
borough of Queens while he was a professor of political science
at Queens College. He holds a doctorate in public law and
government from Columbia University in New York.  Hevesi was sole trustee of the New York state pension fund
from 2003 to 2006, the official responsible for managing and
investing its money.  Hevesi was re-elected to a second term as state comptroller
in November 2006 in the face of a finding by the state ethics
commission that he had violated the law.  The next month, he pleaded guilty to a felony charge of
defrauding the government and agreed to resign from office,
ending his 35-year career in politics. He admitted using state
employees as drivers and personal aides for his disabled wife.
Hevesi’s 2006 plea deal spared him prison time.  Agents Banned  Former New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo, now the
state’s governor, in 2007 started to investigate New York’s
Common Retirement Fund. It is the nation’s third-largest public
pension fund, valued at $150.3 billion as of March 31, according
to the state comptroller’s office.  New York state in 2009 banned the use of placement agents
or lobbyists in investments with the pension fund, and banned
contributions from those who do business with the fund.  Hevesi pleaded guilty in October 2010 to a charge of
receiving reward for official misconduct for approving a
$250 million pension investment in exchange for a $1 million
kickback.  Eight people have pleaded guilty in connection with the
pension probe. In addition to the criminal cases, at least six
people and 21 firms settled with Cuomo, paying more than
$170 million.  Hevesi’s top political adviser, Hank Morris, 59, who is
serving a sentence of as much as four years at the Hudson
Correctional Facility in Hudson, was denied his request for
parole after his second appearance before the board yesterday,
the department said.  ‘Reasonable Probability’  Morris was ordered held for another nine months and is
scheduled to appear again before the parole board in August, the
department said. The panel determined that there is a
“reasonable probability” that Morris “would not live and
remain at liberty without again violating the law.”  “Despite your superior education, political acumen,
business savvy and success, mature age and advanced knowledge,
you only superficially explored the legality of your conduct and
failed to explore at all your ethical obligations as an attorney
and broker,” the parole board said in its decision. “You were
all too willing to engage in a lengthy and repeated course of
criminal conduct.”  Morris pleaded guilty in November 2010 and was sentenced to
prison in February 2011 after admitting that the investment
process at the state pension fund was manipulated to benefit
him, his associates and contributors to Hevesi’s campaign.  The case is People v. Hevesi, 4632/2010, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  