-- Exelon Settles U.S. Allegations Over Constellation Merger
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-15T04:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/exelon-settles-u-s-allegations-over-constellation-merger.html
Exelon Corp. (EXC)  agreed to pay the U.S.
$400,000 to settle allegations it violated a court order
limiting prices for electricity as part of an agreement
approving its $7.9 billion acquisition of Constellation Energy
Group Inc.  Exelon allegedly submitted offers to sell electricity at
prices higher than those allowed by the order and failed “to
take all the steps necessary to comply” with the court’s
instructions, according to a filing by the Justice Department
today in federal court in  Washington .  Exelon, the largest U.S. nuclear plant operator, claimed
the alleged violations resulted from “inadvertent errors” and
agreed to settle the U.S. claims “without any admission or
determination of wrongdoing,” according to a stipulation filed
by the department. The company cooperated with a probe by the
department’s antitrust division, the government said.  Exelon announced the takeover of Baltimore-based
Constellation in April 2011. The department in December filed a
lawsuit allowing the acquisition to go forward as long as Exelon
agreed to certain terms, including the sale of three
electricity-generating plants in  Maryland . A federal judge
approved the agreement in May.  “We are disappointed this error occurred,”  Lawrence McDonnell , a spokesman for Chicago-based Exelon, said in a phone
interview. “We take full responsibility for our actions. The
mistake resulted in little impact on market participants or
Maryland customers.”  He said the company identified the bidding error and
notified federal and state regulators.  The case is U.S. v. Exelon Corp., 11-cv-02276, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 