-- Farm Counties Topping Subsidy List Backed Romney: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-11-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/farm-counties-topping-subsidy-list-backed-romney-bgov-barometer.html
Mitt Romney  was the overwhelming
choice of voters in counties that receive the biggest federal
farm  subsidy payments , even as the Republican presidential
candidate campaigned against dependence on government.  The BGOV Barometer shows nine of the 10 counties collecting
the most in  farm subsidies  last year backed Romney, with
Stoddard County, a rice, corn and cotton producer in southeast
Missouri, voting for the Republican over President  Barack Obama 
by the biggest margin, almost three-to-one. Farmers there got
$13.5 million in farm subsidies in 2011, ranking seventh on the
list.  “Farmers vote Republican but they like Democratic
programs,” said former Representative Charles Stenholm of
Texas, who served as the top Democrat on the House Agriculture
Committee while in office and is now a lobbyist. “They consider
themselves to be conservative, and if something is important to
them, then they don’t consider that liberal.”  Of the top 10, only majority-black Bolivar County,
Mississippi, supported Obama. Bolivar County, in the state’s
rural Delta region, took in $13.6 million in farm aid in 2011.
Seven  other counties  -- four in  Arkansas , two in  California , and
one in Texas -- gave Romney at least 60 percent of the vote,
according to an analysis of election data and agricultural
subsidies. Whitman County, Washington, also favored Romney,
though only by a  50-47 percent margin  with about 5 percent of
the vote left to count.  Safety Net  Farmers “tend to be more conservative” in general than
other voters, supporting less regulation while still wanting to
maintain a safety net for food and livestock producers, said
Robert Stallman, president of the  American Farm Bureau
Federation , the biggest U.S. farmer group. Still, the farm vote
shouldn’t be dismissed by the White House, he said. “That
doesn’t mean there aren’t large numbers who supported” the
president, he said.  While rural voters provided Romney with  his margin  of
victory in  North Carolina  last week, their support wasn’t enough
to put him over the top in other contested states such as Ohio,
according to an analysis of election results last week by the
Center for Rural Strategies, based in Whitesburg,  Kentucky .
Republicans had been counting on heavy turnout in small towns
and farms to offset Democratic advantages in cities.  Of the top 10 counties, Colusa County, California, received
the most payments, with $19 million in 2011, according to data
compiled by Environmental Working Group, a conservation-advocacy
organization that tracks subsidies. The payments don’t include
crop insurance indemnities that fluctuate widely among regions
from year to year because of weather disasters.  Romney carried Colusa County, where rice subsidies
dominated payments, with 61 percent of the vote. In Bolivar
County in  Mississippi , a rice, soybean and cotton-growing area,
Obama won with 69 percent of the vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  