-- Fed's Williams Sees QE Extending Into Second Half of 2013
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-11-15T01:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/fed-s-williams-sees-qe-extending-into-second-half-of-2013.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President  John Williams  said the central bank will
probably continue purchasing bonds well into the second half of
next year to bring down U.S. unemployment now at 7.9 percent.  “I expect it will be some time until the job market makes
substantial progress towards our congressionally mandated
maximum employment goal,” Williams said today in the text of
remarks prepared for a speech in San Francisco. “I anticipate
that we will need to continue our purchases of mortgage-backed
securities and longer-term  Treasury securities  past the end of
this year and likely well into the second half of next year.”  A number of Fed officials said the central bank may need to
expand its monthly purchases of bonds after the expiration next
month of a program swapping about $45 billion of short-term
Treasuries on its balance sheet for longer-term debt, minutes of
the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Oct. 23-24 meeting showed
today. The FOMC last month voted to keep buying $40 billion in
mortgage bonds per month to spur the job market.  “Unemployment is well above our mandate, inflation is
below our target and the recovery faces serious menaces,”
Williams said at the University of  San Francisco .  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index extended declines after
release of the minutes, falling 1.4 percent to 1,355.49 in  New
York . The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury was little
changed at 1.59 percent.  Bond Holdings  The FOMC is next scheduled to meet Dec. 11-12, shortly
before the expiration of the program to extend the average
maturity of its bond holdings known as Operation Twist. Williams
was among the first Fed officials to advocate an open-ended
bond-buying program, which the central bank unveiled in
September.  Fed officials in October also discussed whether to link
their policy holding the main  interest rate  at zero to numerical
measurements of unemployment and inflation instead of a calendar
date, according minutes of the gathering.  Participants “generally favored” the approach of
specifying these thresholds over the current one that relies on
a date, minutes of the October meeting said. The FOMC currently
expects to keep rates low through mid-2015.  Vice Chairman Janet Yellen yesterday endorsed linking the
zero-rate policy to economic thresholds, joining Chicago’s
 Charles Evans , Minneapolis’ Narayana Kocherlakota and  Boston ’s
 Eric Rosengren .  Williams, who is a voting member of the FOMC this year,
said today the Fed’s forward guidance has helped reduce
 borrowing costs . He has opposed tying policy to economic
indicators, saying that no one or two numbers can provide a
comprehensive picture of the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  