-- Fed’s Lacker Warns More Bond Purchases Risk Inflation
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-11-15T16:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/fed-s-lacker-opposes-further-bond-purchases.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said he opposes additional purchases of
securities by the central bank because they will complicate an
eventual exit from record stimulus and risk a surge in
inflation.  “We cannot continually buy more securities and create more
bank reserves without jeopardizing our inflation goal,” Lacker
said in the text of a speech today in Charleston,  West Virginia .
“In my view, the balance of considerations suggests that we
should be standing pat now rather than easing policy further.”  The Richmond Fed chief was the only policy maker to cast a
dissenting vote at the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Oct. 23-
24 meeting, at which officials maintained $40 billion in monthly
purchases of mortgage-backed securities and repeated that
 interest rates  will probably stay near zero at least through
mid-2015. He has dissented from every FOMC decision this year.  A number of Fed officials said the central bank may need to
expand its monthly purchases of bonds next year after the
expiration of Operation Twist, according to minutes of their
last meeting released yesterday.  “The larger our balance sheet when the time comes to
withdraw monetary stimulus, the more difficult and risky that
process will be,” Lacker said at the West Virginia Economic
Outlook Conference. While the Fed has tools to unwind stimulus
and avoid inflation, “we are in unchartered territory,” making
getting the timing right difficult, he said.  Bullard, Option  The central bank each month is also swapping $45 billion in
short-term Treasuries for longer-term debt. The program is
likely to end on schedule in December, though purchasing
Treasuries outright “is definitely an option on the table,”
St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said last week.  Growth is likely to continue at an annual rate of at least
2 percent and may accelerate toward the end of 2013, Lacker
said. European recession and “fiscal challenges” in the U.S.
pose risks to the outlook, he said.  A comprehensive change in the budget outlook brought about
by passage of something similar to the proposal of President
Obama’s deficit commission, or “some grand bargain” with
Congress, could result in an acceleration of U.S. growth by
“half a percent,” Lacker said in response to audience
questions.  “We could get 3 percent or more growth,” Lacker said.
“On the other hand, if the can gets kicked further down the
road or we go off the fiscal cliff,” a recession could occur,
he said.  Fiscal Cliff  The so-called fiscal cliff refers to the $607 billion of
tax increases and spending cuts that will kick in automatically
at the end of the year unless Congress acts. The  Congressional
Budget Office  said in an Aug. 22 economic report that fiscal
tightening of that magnitude could cause a recession.  Inflation is likely to average around 2 percent “or a
little less,” in line with the Fed’s target, over the next year
or two, he said in his prepared remarks.  “ Monetary policy  is primarily about inflation,” he said.
“While U.S. inflation is the responsibility of the Federal
Reserve, real economic growth and labor market conditions are
affected by a wide range of factors outside the Fed’s control.”  Monetary Stimulus  “It’s unfortunate, but the effects of monetary stimulus on
real output and employment are less than is widely thought,”
Lacker said.  Some Fed district bank presidents disagree with Lacker on
the benefits of more easing. Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren 
said on Nov. 1 the central bank should buy mortgage bonds until
the jobless rate falls from 7.9 percent to 7.25 percent and hold
the target interest rate near zero until hitting 6.5 percent
unemployment.  San Francisco Fed President  John Williams , who votes on
policy this year, said on Nov. 5 the central bank should press
on with $40 billion in bond buying each month until it purchases
a total of at least $600 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  