-- Federal Reserve Bomb Plot Suspect Indicted in U.S. Court
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-11-15T18:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/federal-reserve-bomb-plot-suspect-indicted-in-u-s-court.html
A Bangladeshi man who allegedly told
a government informant that he sought to wage “jihad” was
indicted on two charges related to a plot to bomb the New York
 Federal Reserve  in lower  Manhattan .  Quazi Mohammad Rezwanul Ahsan Nafis, 21, is charged with
attempting to use a weapon of mass destruction and attempting to
provide material support to a foreign terrorist organization,
according to the indictment unsealed today in Brooklyn, New
York, federal court.  He was arrested in October as part of a sting operation in
which government agents helped him plot the would-be attack by
supplying him with fake explosives, according to court papers.  Authorities took Nafis into custody after he allegedly
attempted to detonate what he believed to be a 1,000-pound bomb
at the bank, located at 33 Liberty Street, just a few blocks
from the site of the former twin towers at the World Trade
Center, which were destroyed in the terrorist attacks of Sept.
11, 2001.  Nafis, who has been living in Queens,  New York , came to the
U.S. using a student visa and told an informant for the FBI that
he wanted to engage in “jihad,” according to a criminal
complaint filed in the case. The informant referred Nafis to an
FBI informant posing as a member of al-Qaeda after he expressed
interest in receiving help from the group, according to the
complaint.  In a video statement made just before the bombing attempt,
Nafis said “we will not stop until we attain victory or
martyrdom,” while covering his face, disguising his voice and
wearing sunglasses, according to the complaint.  The case is U.S. v. Nafis, 1:12-mj-00965, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  