-- FERC Suspends JPMorgan Unit’s Power-Trading Authority
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-11-15T19:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/ferc-suspends-jpmorgan-unit-s-power-trading-authority.html
The U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission yesterday suspended a  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  unit’s
electricity-trading authority, saying it had filed false
information to regulators.  The action, part of a more aggressive effort by the
commission to monitor U.S. power markets, prohibits J.P. Morgan
Ventures Energy Corp. from selling electricity at market-based
rates for six months starting April 1, 2013.  The FERC said the company made “factual
misrepresentations” and omitted material information in
communications with the  California  Independent System Operator,
or Caiso, and in filings to the commission. Caiso operates the
state’s power grid.  “This is very significant in the history of that agency,”
Charles Peabody, a bank analyst with Portales Partners in  New
York , said in an interview. “FERC has really been stepping up
its investigations into power manipulation.”  In its order released late yesterday, FERC said the
JPMorgan unit will essentially be allowed to participate as a
bystander in wholesale power markets, granting it the ability to
offer electricity into the market without a price attached. This
will ensure that utilities have the ability to obtain enough
power to serve the demand from customers. JPMorgan would still
be able to trade derivatives under the order.  ‘Reasonable Rates’  “The provision of false, misleading or inaccurate
information undermines the integrity of the FERC decision-making
process, the smooth operation of markets and FERC’s ability to
ensure just and reasonable rates for customers,” FERC said in
an e-mailed statement. “The commission continuously has warned
market participants of the consequences associated with failing
to abide by FERC rules and regulations.”  A spokeswoman for the bank said it is reviewing the
decision and its next steps.  “This is a novel use of FERC’s authority over market-based
rates and is unsupported by FERC’s own regulations,”  Jennifer Zuccarelli  said in an e-mail.  The commission is also investigating alleged manipulation
by traders for  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  Since January
2011, the agency has announced 11 market-manipulation probes,
and in March it reached a $245 million settlement with
Constellation Energy Group Inc. over one of those cases. Last
month, the agency proposed a record $469.9 million in penalties
for Barclays, which says it will contest the finding.  The JPMorgan energy unit reported $2.2 billion paid by
customers in  New England , the Midwest and California in 2011,
according to FERC filings.  Regulatory Trouble  While the unit accounted for a small portion of JPMorgan’s
$97.2 billion in 2011  revenue , yesterday’s decision adds to
regulatory trouble for the New York-based company. At least 10
federal agencies and a U.S. Senate panel are investigating a
multibillion-dollar trading loss at its chief investment office
in  London .  “Once you mess up, every regulator starts to look to make
sure that they are covered with their oversight,” said Peabody,
who downgraded JPMorgan’s shares on Oct. 12 to “underperform.”  This is the first time that an entity active in
California’s power market has been suspended by the FERC, said
Stephanie McCorkle, spokeswoman for the Caiso.  ‘In Lockstep’  “The ISO and FERC are in lockstep on the importance of
protecting the integrity of energy markets,” Caiso President
Steve Berberich said in an e-mailed statement. “We believe the
FERC order is a strong signal to the entire market of the
importance of proper conduct and cooperation during
investigations.”  The FERC said in September it had initiated a proceeding
against the energy trading unit. The case focuses on whether
JPMorgan’s energy division, a part of the company’s commodities
unit run by Blythe Masters, met its obligations to provide
documents to Caiso.  J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy allegedly made bids that
resulted in at least $73 million in improper payments to the
generators, according to the FERC. The investigation came to
light when the commission went to court seeking internal e-mails
from JPMorgan.  Zuccarelli said in her statement that the issue in the case
“was not J.P. Morgan’s conduct in the market, but rather a
dispute over document productions.”  JPMorgan Apology  In a filing with the commission last month, the bank
apologized for what it said were inadvertent mistakes and said
that suspending its trading authority would be an “unjustified
reaction to unintentional, good-faith mistakes,
misunderstandings and miscommunications.”  In its decision, the FERC said “no showing of the
respondent’s intent or mindset is necessary in order to
demonstrate that a violation” has occurred.  FERC Commissioner Cheryl LaFleur dissented, saying revoking
market-based rate authority should stem from market conduct, not
because of a disagreement over the documents provided.  “I dissented based on the facts and the law in this
case,” she said today in an interview after the agency’s
monthly meeting.  J.P. Morgan Venture Energy’s explanation that it wasn’t
required to give California power officials information “lacks
credibility and cannot be reconciled with a rational reading of
the emails from the Office of Enforcement.”  The FERC said that during the suspension period, JPMorgan
will only be permitted to “participate in wholesale electricity
markets by either scheduling quantities of energy products
without an associated price or by specifying a zero-price in its
offer as provided in the pertinent tariffs.”  The delay in the suspension is to permit Caiso to maintain
system reliability and allow J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy to
fulfill contractual obligations, according to the FERC
statement. The company schedules and controls the dispatch of
electricity from 10 power plant units in  Southern California ,
according to Caiso.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  