-- FHA Needs Bailout From Treasury to Plug Budget, Bachus Says
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-11-15T18:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/fha-needs-bailout-from-treasury-to-plug-budget-bachus-says-2-.html
The  Federal Housing Administration 
will need billions of dollars in aid from the  U.S. Treasury 
before the end of the year to fill a financial hole caused by
defaults on mortgages it insures, House Financial Services
Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus  said today.  FHA will propose increases in the premiums it charges to
insure mortgages as one solution to its financial problems,
Bachus said during a press conference in  Washington . Still, that
won’t be enough to offset its near term need for cash.  The agency is “burning through” its last $600 million and
FHA officials have briefed him that they will need a financial
backstop within a month, the Alabama Republican said during a
press conference in Washington.  “Because of the number of foreclosures, they’ve indicated
they will have to come to the American people and ask for
money,” he said.  A request for aid would be the first in the agency’s 78-
year history, and could create political problems at a time when
Republicans and Democrats are engaged in negotiations over how
to solve the nation’s fiscal woes.  FHA does not need prior approval from Congress to receive a
financial infusion from Treasury. FHA spokesman George Gonzalez
declined to comment.  Bachus refrained from criticizing the government mortgage
insurer in remarks after the press conference and blamed the
agency’s losses on the economy.  Bad Economy  “These are just a wave of foreclosures which we obviously
are not over,” Bachus said. “It’s basically a function of a
bad economy.”  Bachus’s remarks came a day before the agency is scheduled
to release its annual actuarial report, which is expected to
project that losses from defaults on the loans it insured from
2005 to 2009 will exceed the value of its insurance fund. That
report, which will provide a picture of the agency’s financial
situation, is separate from any eventual request for a draw from
Treasury.  In advance of the report, FHA officials have been publicly
emphasizing the role the agency plays in the economy as a backer
of home loans for low-income borrowers who do not have large
down payments. Agency officials have been sending out messages
on Twitter with the hashtag #FHAmatters.  FHA insures a portfolio of about $1.1 trillion in home
loans and now backs 15 percent of U.S. mortgages for home
purchases.  The agency provides liquidity to the housing market by
insuring lenders against losses on loans with down payments as
low as 3.5 percent. Lenders are made whole if the mortgages
default. Unlike  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac , the mortgage finance
companies operating under U.S. conservatorship, FHA doesn’t
package loans into securities or guarantee principal and
interest payments.  The government-backed mortgage insurer until now has
covered its costs with revenue from premiums. In the past two
years, it has raised premiums and tightened credit standards in
an effort to avoid asking for a taxpayer subsidy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  