-- Fiat Doesn’t Need Access to Chrysler’s Cash, CEO Says
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-11-15T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/fiat-doesn-t-need-access-to-chrysler-s-cash-ceo-says.html
Fiat SpA (F) , the Italian automaker
planning to merge with Chrysler Group LLC, doesn’t need access
to its U.S. partner’s cash, which currently has limits on its
use, the chief executive officer of both companies said.  “There will have to be no covenants on the debt structure
that exists within Chrysler, and I think we have to get over 80
percent of Chrysler” ownership for Fiat, CEO Sergio Marchionne
told reporters yesterday at a press conference in  Detroit . “I
don’t think Fiat needs it.”  Chrysler accepted restrictions on its cash when refinancing
loans from the U.S. and Canadian governments. Marchionne, 60,
has said he plans to merge Chrysler with Fiat by 2015. The
ability of Fiat, which owns 58.5 percent of Chrysler, to buy the
rest is limited by a turnaround plan that the Turin, Italy-based
company announced last month, the executive has said.  Fiat is in a court dispute with Auburn Hills, Michigan-
based Chrysler’s minority shareholder regarding the price that
it has to pay to boost its ownership to almost 62 percent. The
United Auto Workers’ retiree health-care trust has said Fiat
must pay at least $342 million for the holding, more than double
the $139.7 million that Fiat has said that it owes.  Fiat sued Sept. 26 in Delaware Chancery Court to confirm
the price that it has to pay. The voluntary employee beneficiary
association, known as VEBA, responded in a Nov. 13 filing.  Judge’s Decision  “We read the agreement in a way; they read it in
another,” Marchionne said yesterday. “Let the judge decide.”  The court may rule on the matter by the end of the year,
the CEO said on Fiat’s Oct. 30 quarterly conference call.  As part of Chrysler’s 2009 bankruptcy, Fiat was granted
call options to purchase a portion of the VEBA’s stake every six
months beginning earlier this year through June 2016. The
agreement covered 40 percent of the trust’s holdings.  Fiat reported 20 billion euros ($25.6 billion) of available
liquidity at the end of the third quarter, down from 22.7
billion euros as of June 30.  Fiat presented a plan last month to turn around its
European operations, which are generating wider losses and
caused the automaker to cut its 2014 profit goal by 31 percent
to 5.2 billion euros. Other automakers in  Europe , including  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Ford Motor Co. and  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Opel
unit, also are struggling as industrywide vehicle sales in the
region head for the biggest annual decline in 19 years.  “If you look at the collective losses that we have, that
Ford has, that GM has and that Peugeot has in the European
arena, the correction is enough to choke a horse,” Marchionne
told reporters yesterday. “There’s a point in time in which the
cash runs out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  