-- Fisher Says Fed Can’t Save U.S. From ‘Fiscal Perdition’
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-11-15T19:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/fisher-says-fed-can-t-save-u-s-from-fiscal-perdition-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President Richard Fisher said the Fed can’t avert “fiscal
perdition” as lawmakers wrangle over how to avert $600 billion
in tax increases and spending cuts threatening economic growth.  “The Federal Reserve has been carrying the ball for the
fiscal authorities by holding down interest rates in an attempt
to stoke the recovery while the fiscal authorities wrestle
themselves off the mat,” Fisher said today in prepared remarks
given in Stanford,  California . “But there are limits to what a
monetary authority can do.”  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday voters sent a “very
clear message” on Election Day that they want both parties to
cooperate and cut the budget deficit. If Congress doesn’t act by
the end of 2012, automatic spending cuts and tax increases are
scheduled to take effect starting in January, resulting in what
the Congressional Budget Office predicts will be a recession.  “Only the Congress of the United States can now save us
from fiscal perdition,” Fisher said at Stanford University. The
Fed can’t “endlessly” keep purchasing bonds to keep the
recovery going, he said.  The U.S. central bank affirmed a plan on Oct. 24 to keep
buying $40 billion in mortgage bonds a month, seeking to bolster
growth and reduce  unemployment .  A number of policy makers said the Fed may need to expand
its monthly bond purchases after the expiration in December of a
program known as Operation Twist swapping $45 billion of short-
term Treasuries each month for longer-term debt, minutes of
policy makers’ meeting last month showed.  Fisher, who doesn’t vote on the policy-setting Federal Open
Market Committee this year, has been among the most vocal
critics of Fed easing. He has said he was opposed to the central
bank’s latest round of bond purchases known as quantitative
easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Stanford at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  