-- For Banking Regulations, Simpler Is Better
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-15T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/for-banking-regulations-simpler-is-better.html
More than four years after a
financial breakdown plunged the world economy into the worst
slump since the Great Depression, efforts to build a stronger
global system of bank regulation are barely inching forward.
Regulators seem overwhelmed by the complexity of their own
reforms.  To make faster progress toward a safer system, governments
must aim for greater simplicity.  Last week the  Federal Reserve  and other regulators  said 
U.S. financial institutions won’t be held to a Jan. 1 deadline
to boost their capital -- the main defense against losses -- as
required by the new Basel III international banking standards.  The U.S. isn’t alone. At the end of October, the Financial
Stability Board -- the multinational panel overseeing the Basel
III reforms --  said  that only six of the 28 global banks it had
identified as “systemically important” would be covered by the
new rules on the agreed start date.  As  Andrew Haldane  of the  Bank of England  recently
 explained , the problem lies in legislating national rules that
conform to the new Basel standards. That’s difficult because the
standards are so complicated. The Basel I agreement of 1988 was
30 pages long; Basel II in 2004 logged in at 347 pages; Basel
III is 616.  Basel III is a model of brevity compared with the  Dodd-
Frank Act  that codifies the broader U.S. regulatory response to
the crisis. Haldane has estimated that the rule-making could
ultimately amount to 30,000 pages. Many of those pages are the
result of banks’ efforts to insert exceptions and caveats.  The worst effect of the growing complexity -- aside from
delay -- may be that the rules, once written, won’t work. Rules
that differ in myriad ways from country to country widen the
scope for regulatory arbitrage. Beyond that, the financial
crisis belies the idea that increasingly complex rules are the
right way to control an increasingly complex system. Our
unfortunate experience with  Basel II  demonstrates how well that
works.  Simple is best, especially when it comes to the core of the
new standards: capital adequacy. A capital ratio, at its
essence, should be the amount of money that a bank’s
shareholders put at risk as a percentage of the bank’s assets.
Basel III complicates the calculation by allowing banks to place
a lower weight on supposedly safe assets and by adding other
obligations, such as hybrid bonds, to the definition of capital.  Basel III does introduce a simple ratio of equity to
assets, but sets the adequacy level at just 3 percent. In other
words, a mere 3 percent decline in the value of a bank’s assets
-- far less severe than what happened in the recent crisis --
would be enough to render it insolvent. Worse, the ratio is
proposed merely as a supplementary monitoring tool, not the
binding regulatory limit it should be.  Finance experts have advocated, and Bloomberg View
supports, a simple equity-ratio requirement of as much as 20
percent of assets.  Research  by various economists, including
Anat Admati at  Stanford University  and  David Miles  at the Bank
of  England ,  suggests  such sharply higher  capital requirements 
would be a net benefit for the economy. To be sure, regulators
will still have to take the nature of assets into account: If a
bank specializes in high-risk real-estate lending, for example,
even 20 percent might be too little. A balance must be struck,
but it’s increasingly clear that regulators have erred too far
in the direction of complexity.  Governments’ failure to meet deadlines that were far too
lenient to begin with demonstrates the need for a new and
simpler approach. If regulators are going to take extra time,
they should attend to the underlying cause of the backsliding.
They’ll get better rules into the bargain.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Israel’s right to respond  to
rocket attacks, on  Grover Norquist’s gift to Republicans ;
Stephen L. Carter on what  Obama can learn from FDR  about
business;  Susan Crawford  on  why mobile phones went dead after
Hurricane Sandy ; William Pesek on  Obama’s Southeast Asia trip ;
 Jonathan Weil  on the  Justice Department ’s  white-collar
prosecution numbers ; Michael Petrilli on what  education
reformers need to do differently ; Kori Schake on  adultery and
the U.S. military honor code .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 