-- Fort Calhoun Nuclear Plant to Start Up in First Quarter
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-11-15T19:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/fort-calhoun-nuclear-plant-to-start-up-in-first-quarter.html
The Omaha Public Power District will
delay restart of the 482-megawatt Fort Calhoun reactor in
 Nebraska  until the first quarter after “discovering areas that
need additional work,” said Jeff Hanson, a utility spokesman.  Omaha Public initially aimed to start the unit last
September, then pushed the date back to December to improve
backup diesel generator reliability and work on containment
“internal structure issues,” according to a Sept. 13
 presentation  to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Crews
will now focus on more containment maintenance, Hanson said.  Fort Calhoun, closed for repairs since Missouri River
flooding extended a refueling shutdown last year, will be
inspected by the commission before receiving approval to resume
operation. Omaha Public Power officials are scheduled to meet
with the commission later today to discuss repair plans.  “We’ve gotten the restart checklist and we’re looking to
be able to heat up the plant in the first quarter of next
year,” Hanson, who’s based in Omaha, said by phone today. “Our
goal had been December if there weren’t additional areas that
needed work. We have areas that need work around the
containment.”  Work List  The utility received a  confirmatory action letter  Nov. 13
detailing maintenance that must be completed and reviewed at
Fort Calhoun before startup. This includes improving flood
barriers, emergency diesel generator systems and equipment
designs such as the containment structure, the letter said.  Omaha Public Power in August hired  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  to manage
Fort Calhoun’s day-to-day operations, Hanson said. The plant, 19
miles (31 kilometers) north of Omaha, is one of three nuclear
reactors idled for an extended period because of mechanical
trouble.  “They’re working their way through a long list of issues
before they can restart,” Victor Dricks, an NRC spokesman for
the Western region, said by phone from Arlington,  Texas . “There
isn’t a plant with the same issues and they are unique.”  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ’s 838-megawatt Crystal River 3 in  Florida 
was shut in October 2009 after a crack was found in the
containment wall. The company hasn’t decided whether to repair
the reactor and said it may defer a decision until mid-2013.  Edison International (EIX)  shuttered its two-unit San Onofre site
in January after detecting unusual wear on tubes that carry
radioactive water. The California units have a combined capacity
of about 2,150 megawatts. The company has spent $96 million on
inspection and repair, Hugh Wynne, a senior analyst with Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, said in a Nov. 2 note to
clients.  The NRC this week postponed a Nov. 16 meeting with Edison
and did not provide a new date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  