-- Fortum Says EU Energy Market Integration Hurt by National Policy
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-11-15T14:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/fortum-says-eu-energy-market-integration-hurt-by-national-policy.html
The European Union may see intended
integration of power markets thwarted by national barriers to
trade, Esa Hyvaerinen, a  Fortum Oyj (FUM1V)  spokesman, said by e-mail.  The comments come after the European Commission, the
regulator of the bloc, today urged governments to speed up
integration while avoiding changes to power market designs
through mechanisms that reward utilities for guaranteeing back-
up plants when renewable power falls short, known as capacity
markets, under consideration in Germany and the U.K.  On equal treatment:  “Fortum believes that capacity remuneration mechanisms,
when considered necessary and adopted, should treat all
capacities equally, regardless of the technology or the age of
the generation unit. They should also be regional rather than
national, taking full advantage of cross-border trade.”  On fragmentation risks:  “The rapid increase of subsidy-based, intermittent
renewable energy has totally challenged the functioning of the
energy market.”  “As a consequence, some member states are in the process
of introducing national capacity remuneration mechanisms to
support fossil balancing and reserve capacity, adding yet
another subsidy layer that will further deteriorate the market
functioning.”  On costs:  “Such capacity remuneration mechanisms will seriously
hinder market integration. This is a very expensive solution for
energy consumers.”  On investment impact:  “National capacity mechanisms should be allowed only if a
member state can prove that its security of supply is seriously
threatened and cannot be alleviated by cross-border electricity
trade. The Commission should have a clear mandate in ensuring
that possible capacity remuneration mechanisms do not distort
the cross-border electricity trade or influence the location of
investments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  