-- France to Require Wall to Isolate Banks’ Riskiest Trading
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i ,   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-11-15T18:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/france-to-require-strict-wall-to-isolate-banks-riskiest-trading.html
France is planning its biggest
banking overhaul in three decades, forcing the country’s lenders
to place “speculative” trading businesses into separate
subsidiaries, Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said.  “The reform will protect savers, it will better reorient
banks toward useful activities, it will preserve the universal
bank model that has served us well,” Moscovici said today at a
conference in Paris. The banking bill to be presented to
parliament next month will also include “strong” resolution
measures for troubled banks, he said.  With the plan, the government is following recommendations
last month from a European Union-commissioned group, led by Bank
of Finland Governor Erkki Liikanen. President  Francois Hollande ,
elected in May, had pledged to revamp the country’s banking
industry -- with the biggest foreign holdings in public and
private debt in the euro-area’s troubled economies -- to better
protect deposits from riskier investment-banking operations.  France  will ask banks to set up “strict” walls around
market activities that are not necessary to financing the
economy, Moscovici said. The “dedicated subsidiary” will be
subject to “severe”  capital requirements , he said.  Speculation through high-frequency trading and on
agricultural-commodities derivatives will be banned, Moscovici
said, without providing details. The bill seeks to ban “pure
proprietary trading that allows” banks “to speculate with
their balance sheets, unless they are very strictly ring
fenced,” he said.  ‘Demanding’ Measures  Shares of  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s biggest bank, rose 0.6
percent to 40.30 euros in Paris.  Societe Generale , the country’s
second-largest bank by market value, rose 0.6 percent to 25.14
euros, while  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  jumped 1.5 percent to 5.62
euros.  “I don’t have the details, which apparently seem
demanding,” Societe Generale’s Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea , who listened to Moscovici’s speech, told reporters today
in Paris. French banks, which are already adapting to rules
including Basel III capital requirements, “will have to run
this on top of the rest,” he said.  A BNP Paribas spokeswoman declined to comment as did a
Credit Agricole spokeswoman.  “This reform isn’t meant to be punitive for banks,”
Moscovici said. “The most sophisticated needs of corporate
financing and market access can’t be underestimated.”  Legal Separation  Liikanen’s Oct. 2 report recommended a “legal separation
of certain particularly risky financial activities from deposit-
taking banks within the banking group.”  The EU report found that Paris-based BNP Paribas and
Societe Generale, together with Barclays Plc of  London ,
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc of Edinburgh had the highest proportion of trading
assets, accounting for more than 30 percent of total assets.  The value of trading assets fluctuates with their market
performance.  European efforts to shield deposits from risky activities
mirror measures proposed in the U.S. and the U.K. Named after
former U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , the U.S. plan
would ban commercial lenders from proprietary trading.  Other Measures  The U.K.’s Vickers proposals, from a group led by the
former Bank of England Chief Economist  John Vickers , recommended
banks separate their consumer and investment banking units.  “We’ve taken into account all similar legislations that
have already been undertaken,” Moscovici said. “Our project
will largely rest on an approach advocated by Erkki Liikanen.”  The French government also wants to set up a system ahead
of European banking union plans to use lenders’ funds rather
than savings or taxpayer money to help wind down troubled
institutions, Moscovici said.  The bank reform bill will also seek the creation of a new
“macro-prudential” authority to better watch over systemic
risks, he said. “Supervision is too focused on following each
institution’s individual risk; it doesn’t yet correctly
comprehend systemic risk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  