-- Jeff Koons, Franz Kline Set Records at Christie’s Sale
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-11-15T03:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/franz-kline-work-sets-record-40-4-million-at-christie-s.html
A giant tulip sculpture by  Jeff Koons  and a 1957 painting by Franz Kline sold for new auction
records at Christie’s in New York tonight.  The Kline work sold for $40.4 million nearly quadrupling
his previous auction record of $9.3 million -- achieved
yesterday at  Sotheby’s (BID)  with a smaller, 1956 canvas from the
collection of Sidney Kohl, co-founder of closely held finance
firm Alliant Co., and his wife, Dorothy.  The Koons work sold for $33.7 million, including fees,
breaking a previous record of $25.8 million  In the record-breaking Christie’s Kline, an untitled work,
black brush strokes collide on a white background. Measuring
more than 6 feet high and 9 feet wide, it was expected to bring
$20 million to $30 million.  It had belonged to Robert Mnuchin, a partner at  L&M Arts 
gallery and formerly an equity-trading chief at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  Entertainment mogul  David Geffen  also at one time
owned the work, which has been exhibited at the  Menil Collection 
in Houston and the  Whitney Museum of American Art  in New York.  “It’s one of the greatest paintings Kline ever made and
particularly impressive given its scale,” said Matthew Armstrong, curator of Donald Marron’s collection at Lightyear
Capital LLC in New York. “It’s like a great culminating musical
phrase in which each note is soaring, intense and pitch-
perfect.”  Kline’s Importance  Until this season, Kline’s top price at auction was $6.4
million, achieved in a 2005 Christie’s sale. Privately, four
paintings by the artist sold for more than $20 million each,
according to Koji Inoue, a Christie’s vice president in New
York.  “People arrive into that category one by one,” said art
dealer Asher Edelman, referring to artists whose work sells for
more than $20 million, including Kline’s peers  Mark Rothko ,
 Jackson Pollock , Barnett Newman, Clyfford Still and Willem de Kooning. “Kline is a major Abstract Expressionist painter. He’s
just as important as the rest of them.”  Christie’s guaranteed the seller of the Kline an
undisclosed minimum price.  Muse highlights include  Joe Mysak  on  books , Philip Boroff
on  theater .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  