-- France Telecom Gets Private-Equity Interest for U.K. Unit
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-11-16T16:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/france-telecom-gets-private-equity-interest-for-u-k-unit.html
France Telecom SA (FTE)  has received
interest from private-equity firms seeking a minority stake in
its 50-50 U.K. venture with  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Chief Executive
Officer Stephane Richard said.  The largest French phone company hasn’t made a decision on
the future of the business, recently renamed EE, and could
instead go for an initial public offering of its shares, Richard
said yesterday in an interview at an industry conference in
Montpellier, France.  “We want to keep control of the asset, and so do the
Germans,” Richard said. “That said, there is a possibility
that we can give ourselves some financial headroom by opening
EE’s capital to a minority shareholder or through an IPO, but we
haven’t yet decided.”  France Telecom   jumped  as much as 2.4 percent from its
intraday level yesterday after Richard’s comments. A stake sale
in the unit would help France Telecom bolster its finances as
intensifying rivalry at home and  Europe ’s slowing economy hurt
earnings. Its debt rating was lowered for the first time in a
decade last month and the carrier cut its dividend to keep
borrowings under control.  EE may be valued at 7 billion pounds ($11 billion) to
7.7 billion pounds, based on a multiple of 5 to 5.5 times its
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
according to Stephane Beyazian, an analyst at Raymond James
Euro Equities.  Four Operators  France Telecom, based in Paris,  declined  2.7 percent to 8
euros today in Paris. Deutsche Telekom fell 2.3 percent to 8.16
euros on the Frankfurt exchange.  The CEO said “many” private-equity funds have expressed
interest in buying part of the asset, without disclosing names.
 France  Telecom and Deutsche Telekom created Everything
Everywhere in 2010 to save more than 4 billion euros in network,
marketing and administrative costs by 2014. That deal cut the
number of U.K. network operators to four from five.  An IPO would be possible in two years, France Telecom Chief
Financial Officer Gervais Pellissier said in a separate
interview yesterday in Barcelona at a conference organized by
Morgan Stanley.  “There are no plans today, it’s for the future,”
Pellissier said. “We are not like Telefonica that needed to do
the O2 IPO because it needed cash. O2  Germany  had proved already
a track record for several years, which is not the case yet at
EE. We don’t need cash right now, we need to prove that this is
a nice asset.”  Rating Cut  Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG, the German unit of
 Spain ’s largest phone company that sells service under the O2
brand, started trading last month after completing Europe’s
biggest initial public offering this year.  Fitch Ratings  lowered France Telecom’s rating last month by
one level to BBB+, the third-lowest investment grade.  Standard &
Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service  rate  the company one level
higher.  On Oct. 25, France Telecom reduced its planned dividend for
a second time this year after third-quarter earnings and sales
declined, in a bid to keep debt under control and avoid credit-
rating cuts. The move followed similar dividend reductions by
European peers such as  Telefonica SA. (TEF)   “We don’t need cash today so there is no set deadline to
decide on EE,” Richard said. “We won’t need to arbitrate
between assets to solve any cash problems for years to come.”  France Telecom had net debt of 31.2 billion euros at the
end of the first half, according to a company document.
Telefonica, with net debt of 52.8 billion euros, is Europe’s
most indebted telephone company.  EE, which became the largest U.K. mobile-phone operator
after its creation, competes with  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and
Telefonica as the country’s wireless carriers prepare to start
offering faster fourth-generation services.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Montpellier, France at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Barcelona at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  