-- French Economy Barely Grows as Hollande Faces Jobless Surge
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-11-15T08:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/french-economy-barely-grows-as-hollande-grapples-with-job-cuts.html
France ’s economy barely expanded in
the third quarter, underlining the challenge President  Francois Hollande  faces in addressing the stagnation that is extending
into its second year.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.2 percent in the quarter from
the previous three months when it fell a revised 0.1 percent,
national statistics office Insee in Paris said today in an e-
mailed statement. Economists had forecast no change, according
to the median of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. GDP
rose 0.2 percent from a year earlier.  “The third quarter is probably the result of a temporary
rebound at the European level,” said Michel Martinez, an
economist at  Societe Generale  in Paris.  Business sentiment 
suggests the French “economy is heading to a moderate recession
or at best remaining flat.”  With  unemployment climbing  and his popularity sliding,
Hollande is seeking to revive the competitiveness of  Europe ’s
second-largest economy by offering companies a 20 billion-euro
($25.5 billion)  tax cut  starting next year and pressing unions
to offer more labor flexibility. Still, the strategy may take
time to pay off and surveys show business confidence near three-
year lows.  The second-quarter GDP decline announced today was the
first in more than three years. Yet the economy has been more or
less flat since the first three months of 2011, which was the
last time it had a quarterly gain of more than 0.2 percent.  Exports, Investment  Growth in the most recent quarter was driven by recoveries
in exports and  consumer spending , while investment, which
powered France’s recovery from the last recession in 2009,
slumped. Household spending rose 0.3 percent after a 0.2 percent
drop previously, while external trade contributed 0.3 percent to
growth after declines in the previous two quarters. Investment
by non-financial companies fell 0.4 percent.  “This resilience is unlikely to be sustained in the fourth
quarter, when we see France’s GDP growth going negative as
headwinds build,” said Thomas Costerg, an economist at  Standard
Chartered (STAN)  in  London . “The continued labor-market deterioration
is likely to dampen consumption, while decelerating European
trade affects exports.”  Companies are holding off expansion as Hollande prepares to
introduce 30 billion euros in tax increases and spending cuts
next year to shrink the  budget deficit  and recession across
southern Europe cuts export demand.  Job Cuts  Manufacturers including  PSA Peugeot Citroen SA (UG)  and  Alcatel-
Lucent (ALU)  have announced thousands of job cuts in recent months,
driving up unemployment to its highest since 1999.  Medef, France’s many business lobby, is asking unions to
agree to ease restrictions on firing and reduce jobless benefits
as part of negotiations initiated by Hollande to improve
France’s competitiveness, Les Echos newspaper reported today.  Hollande this week rejected calls for “shock” measures to
jumpstart the economy and asked be judged on jobs and growth at
the end of his five-year mandate.  “The question that matters in my eyes isn’t the state of
opinion, it’s the state of France in five years,” he said this
week in a 2 ½-hour press conference in Paris, the first of such
semi-annual gatherings he has promised. “I want to be judged,
when the time comes, on employment and growth.”  Six months after gaining office, the Socialist president is
struggling to retain support from those who voted for him while
convincing critics including the  International Monetary Fund 
that he’ll modernize Europe’s second-largest economy amid the
region’s three-year-old sovereign debt crisis.  About 38 percent of French voters approve of Hollande’s
performance as president, down from 62 percent in May, according
to a BVA poll published in today’s Parisien newspaper. The
survey of 1,000 voters was taken after Hollande’s press
conference this week. It has a margin of error of about 3
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  