-- French Borrowing Cost Drops to Record Low
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-11-15T10:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/french-borrowing-cost-drops-to-record-low.html
France  sold 7.5 billion euros ($9.55
billion) in debt today, with two- and five-year borrowing 
costs falling to record lows after President Francois Hollande 
vowed to boost growth and cut debt over his term.  France sold 2.82 billion euros of five-year notes at an
average yield of 0.76 percent, down from 0.92 percent on Oct. 18
and the previous record low of 0.86 percent on July 19. It also
auctioned two -and-three-year securities at lower yields than at
their last sales.  Hollande this week said he should be judged on jobs and
growth at the end of his five-year mandate, rejecting calls for
“shock” measures to jumpstart the economy. The French economy,
 Europe ’s second-largest, expanded 0.2 percent in the third
quarter after shrinking a revised 0.1 percent in the previous
three months, national statistics office Insee said today.  Six months after gaining office, the Socialist president is
struggling to retain support from those who voted for him while
convincing critics including the International Monetary Fund
that he’ll modernize Europe’s second-largest economy amid the
region’s three-year-old sovereign debt crisis.  The IMF in  Washington  this month urged Hollande to embark
on a “vigorous” revamp of the economy, saying its rigid labor
rules and high costs are a “major challenge” to economic
stability.  “Markets have been extremely benevolent” with France,
Laurence Boone, an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch
said today on Bloomberg Television. “France has delayed” a
revamp of its economy because “it hasn’t been pushed by
markets,” she said.  Borrowing costs in France have fallen even as the country
grapples with unemployment at a 13-year high, a record trade
deficit and an economy that is barely growing.  France today sold 2.54 billion euros of two-year securities
at a record low average yield of 0.1 percent, down from 0.19 percent on
Oct. 18. It sold 2.14 billion euros at 0.16 percent, lower than
0.95 percent on May 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  