-- Galleon Arrests Reduced Inside Tips, Ex-Analyst Testifies
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-11-15T23:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/galleon-arrests-reduced-inside-tips-ex-analyst-testifies.html
Arrests tied to the insider-trading
case involving Galleon Group LLC made obtaining illegal tips
harder and often less specific, an analyst for former
Diamondback Capital Management LLC fund manager  Todd Newman 
testified.  “It certainly changed things,” Jesse Tortora testified
today at Newman’s insider-trading trial in New York. “It made
it more difficult. Everybody was anxious. Everybody was nervous.
Information became less frequent and less specific. People were
a little bit reluctant to talk to each other.”  Newman is on trial in federal court with Level Global
Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson. They are charged with
using a “corrupt chain” of insiders at public companies to
make more than $70 million for their funds by trading on illegal
tips about  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  The men pleaded not guilty
to  securities fraud  and conspiracy. The most serious count of
securities fraud carries a maximum term of 20 years in prison.  Tortora, who worked for Newman from 2007 to 2010, is the
government’s first witness. He has told how he obtained
nonpublic information from company insiders and passed it to
Newman and his friends. Tortora said Newman paid as much as
$2.25 million in 2008 and only about $40,000 in 2010, the year
he left the firm.  Rajaratnam Arrest  After Galleon’s co-founder,  Raj Rajaratnam , was arrested in
October 2009, Diamondback instituted a policy forbidding its
employees to speak to expert-networking consultants, Tortora
testified.  Such firms connect investors with employees of public
companies who purportedly provide them with insight into
specific markets. The government has alleged that expert
networkers passed nonpublic information to fund managers and
analysts in return for fees.  Tortora testified that he persuaded Newman to hire his
friend Scott Kanowitz to create a model to track personal
computer sales for companies like Dell and Hewlett-Packard Co.  Newman grew so concerned after of Rajaratnam’s arrest that
he read the criminal complaint against Rajaratnam, Tortora said.  Tortora said the Rajaratnam case included allegations of
 insider trading  in stocks including those of a computer company
based in  Round Rock ,  Texas , which Tortora said he and Newman
concluded was Dell.  Boston Fund  The government also referred to a hedge fund in  Boston ,
which they thought was Loch Capital Management LLC, he said.
Tortora said Newman was friendly with the firm’s founders.  Tortora said he and Newman had a telephone conversation
days after the arrests.  “Todd expressed concern about both of these, because we’d
traded with Dell and he was close to a hedge fund in Boston,
Loch Capital,” Tortora told jurors.  “In a subsequent conversation, he said he’d pulled his
trading records in Dell in the quarters mentioned,” Tortora
said. “He said he felt better because he’d lost money and said,
‘We don’t have to worry about it anyway, because we used Scott
Kanowitz in the trade.’”  Tortora said not being able to provide Newman with
nonpublic information renewed friction between the two men.  “I wasn’t able to do what I’d been doing for him,”
Tortora said. “I couldn’t get the information and what I got
was less specific,” he said. “The only time I knew that Todd
Newman was happy was when I would give Todd Newman information.
I got tired of not knowing which Todd I was working for, of
being a mindless data jockey.”  ‘Push Blame’  He said the two had a screaming argument in April 2010,
after which he decided to leave Diamondback. Tortora said he
agreed to cooperate with the  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
after agents came to his parent’s home in  Florida  to speak to
him in November 2010.  Stephen Fishbein, a lawyer for Newman, told the jury in
opening statements on Nov. 13 that Tortora fabricated Newman’s
involvement in the insider-trading scheme in retaliation for the
firing and in order to “push the blame upon Todd Newman.”  In cross-examination today, Fishbein said Tortora had been
failing in his work as an analyst months before the Galleon
arrests. Tortora said it was as a result of not being able to
obtain information that Newman sought.  “Isn’t it true you understood that your ticket to freedom
was to give evidence against Todd Newman?” Fishbein asked.  “No, that’s untrue,” Tortora said.  FBI Recordings  Fishbein said Tortora made recordings for the FBI of
friends including co-conspirator Danny Kuo, a former analyst at
Whittier Trust Co., a South Pasadena, California-based wealth-
management company. In a December 2010 telephone call Tortora
recorded for the FBI, he told Kuo that the government wanted to
make Newman “the fall guy,” Fishbein said.  Tortora testified he was only following a script suggested
by FBI agents to see what Kuo would say about the scheme.  “From my memory, when I spoke to Danny Kuo, I was
basically to tell Danny that Newman was going to be the fall guy
and that the feds were pointing the finger at Newman and that
they only wanted my help,” he said. “It was a fictional
account they instructed me to make up for Danny Kuo.”  “Didn’t you say ‘my only saving grace is that they want me
to help them with the investigation on Todd’?” Fishbein asked.  “Mr. Fishbein, I don’t recall,” Tortora replied.  Tortora E-Mails  Fishbein also confronted Tortora with dozens of e-mails the
analyst sent to Newman during his time at Diamondback, which
Tortora had described as nonpublic information about Dell and
Nvidia obtained through his friends. The defense lawyer
highlighted the fact that some electronic messages also included
publicly available information or information in which the
source wasn’t identified.  “Is that because you were protective of your sources?”
Fishbein asked.  “Oh no,” Tortora said. “I told Todd everything.”  Of the eight people charged in the case, six pleaded guilty
to insider trading, including Tortora; Spyridon “Sam”
Adondakis, an analyst at New York-based Level Global; Kuo, and
Sandeep “Sandy” Goyal, a former Dell employee. Four members of
the scheme will testify for the government, prosecutors said.  Testimony resumes Nov. 19 before U.S. District Judge
Richard Sullivan in  New York .  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 1:12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  