-- German Growth Slowed Less Than Forecast in Third Quarter
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-11-15T10:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/german-growth-slowed-less-than-forecast-in-third-quarter.html
German growth slowed less than
forecast in the third quarter and the French economy
unexpectedly expanded.  German  gross domestic product  climbed 0.2 percent from the
second quarter, when it gained 0.3 percent, the Federal
Statistics Office said in Wiesbaden today. Economists predicted
a 0.1 percent increase, according to the median of 46 estimates
in a Bloomberg News  survey . In  France , GDP rose 0.2 percent in
the quarter, beating economists’ median  forecast  of zero growth.  The better-than-expected reports from Europe’s two largest
economies weren’t enough to prevent the euro area from slipping
into recession. The 17-nation economy contracted 0.1 percent in
the third quarter after shrinking 0.2 percent in the second, the
European Union’s statistics office said today.  “This was probably the last reasonably solid quarterly
figure from  Germany  for a while,” said  Joerg Kraemer , chief
economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “The steep fall in
the leading indicators suggests that GDP will contract in the
fourth quarter.”  The euro rose after Germany’s GDP release and traded at
$1.2757 at 11:12 a.m. in Frankfurt, up 0.2 percent.  Growth Drivers  German third-quarter expansion was driven by exports,
construction and household and public spending, the statistics
office said. Company investment in equipment and inventories
declined. From a year earlier, the economy grew 0.9 percent when
adjusted for working days. The statistics office will publish a
full break-down of third-quarter GDP on Nov. 23.  In France, growth was also driven by exports and  consumer
spending , while company investment fell. Second-quarter GDP was
revised to a 0.1 percent decline from unchanged.  “The third quarter is probably the result of a temporary
rebound at the European level,” said Michel Martinez, an
economist at  Societe Generale  in Paris. Business sentiment
surveys suggest the French economy “is heading to a moderate
recession or at best remaining flat,” he said.  Spanish GDP dropped 0.3 percent in the third quarter for
its fifth straight retreat. While the Italian economy also
posted its fifth quarterly contraction, the GDP decline of 0.2
percent was less than half the 0.5 percent drop forecast by
economists.  Euro-Area Weakness  Germany’s economic strength has helped to limit the impact
of the sovereign debt crisis on euro-area GDP.  The German economy will expand 0.8 percent this year and in
2013, according to the European Commission. It predicts French
GDP will rise 0.2 percent this year and 0.4 percent next year.  By contrast, the commission forecasts a 0.4 percent decline
in euro-area GDP this year and just 0.1 percent growth next
year. It expects annual economic contractions next year in six
of the 17 euro nations.  Germany sells about 40 percent of its products to the euro
area and 60 percent to the wider European Union. Its exports to
other euro-area countries slumped 9.1 percent in September from
a year earlier. Factory orders and industrial production fell
more than forecast in September and business confidence is at
its lowest in more than 2 1/2 years.  Foreign Sales  Deutsche Post AG,  Europe ’s largest postal service, said on
Nov. 8 that third-quarter profit fell 6.5 percent as a pay
increase caused spending to rise. “We see as well a slowdown of
import and export volumes,” Chief Executive Officer Frank Appel
said. “The German economy is not as strong as it has been in
the past two years.”  Hamburger Hafen & Logistik AG, the largest container
handler at Hamburg’s port, cut investment plans for this year on
Nov. 13 after the global economic slowdown hurt volume and
caused third-quarter profit to fall 28 percent.  Some German companies are compensating for weaker demand in
Europe through sales to faster growing markets. Higher wages and
unemployment of 6.9 percent -- close to a two-decade low -- are
also helping to boost domestic spending.  RWE AG, Germany’s second-largest utility, yesterday
increased its full-year profit forecast. Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG stands by its plans to increase 2012 profit, Chief
Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner said on Nov. 6. The world’s
biggest maker of luxury cars posted third-quarter earnings that
beat analyst expectations, helped by growth in the U.S. and
 Asia .  ECB Plan  Financial markets have rallied since European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  pledged to do whatever it takes to save
the euro and unveiled a plan to buy  government bonds . Germany’s
benchmark DAX share index has gained more than 11 percent since
late July.  Now, investors are waiting for  Spain  to request aid from
Europe’s bailout fund, a prerequisite for the ECB to intervene
in its debt markets.  The Bundesbank said on Oct. 22 that there are “increasing
signs” that Germany’s economy will stagnate or see “a slight
decrease in gross domestic product in the final quarter of the
year.”  -- With assistance from Kristian Siedenburg in Vienna and Mark Deen in Paris. Editors: Matthew Brockett, Zoe Schneeweiss  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in  Frankfurt  at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  