-- Global Logistic to Raise S$404 Million to Fund Brazil Expansion
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-11-15T01:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/global-logistic-to-raise-s-404-million-to-fund-brazil-expansion.html
Global Logistic Properties Ltd. (GLP) , the
world’s second-biggest owner of industrial properties, plans to
raise S$404 million ($330 million) from the sale of new shares
to fund its investment in Brazilian warehouses.  The unit of  Singapore ’s sovereign wealth fund will sell 160
million new shares at S$2.59 each, GLP, as the company is known,
said in a statement to the Singapore exchange today. The price
is a 4.8 percent discount to its last close of S$2.72 on Nov. 12.
GLP will buy the Brazil properties for 2.9 billion real ($1.4
billion) with its Singapore parent, Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board and  China  Investment Corp.  GLP is expanding its assets to profit from rising
consumption and affluence in  Brazil  that is leading to increased
demand for distribution facilities. It’s investing in the
country through two ventures that will together own 39
properties in an economy that recorded an average 4 percent
growth over the last seven years, adding to its existing assets
in China and Japan, the Singapore-based company said yesterday.  “Although GLP has plenty of cash and relatively low
gearing, management’s decision to finance the Brazil investment
through a separate placement is to make it clear to investors
that its Brazil foray will not detract in any way from the
growth of its China and Japan business,” David Lum, an analyst
at Daiwa Capital Markets, said.  Price Levels  GLP has $1.4 billion of cash and a further $1 billion after
selling 30 of its Japanese properties through a real estate
investment trust, Lum said. He lowered his rating on the stock
to hold from outperform because “the Brazil deal is probably a
net positive for GLP, but we see no reason to be too euphoric on
the deal at current price levels.”  The stock dropped as much as 5.5 percent to S$2.57, set for
the biggest drop since Oct. 4, 2011, and traded at S$2.60 as of
9:13 a.m. in Singapore trading. The stock was halted from
trading yesterday.  The decline pared the gain this year to 48 percent, the
fourth-best performer on the Singapore benchmark  Straits Times
Index (FSSTI) , and beat the average 33 percent among the world’s 10
biggest industrial property owners tracked by Bloomberg.
 Prologis Inc. (PLD) , its bigger rival, advanced 15 percent in 2012.  GLP will set up two ventures with parent  Government of
Singapore Investment Corp. , the Canadian retirement fund and
China’s sovereign fund to purchase logistic facilities from
Brazil’s Prosperitas, GLP said in the statement yesterday. GLP
will act as the asset manager of the acquired properties, 88
percent of which will be located in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro,
it said.  Future Growth  Brazil is “an attractive market with strong fundamentals
and compelling opportunities for growth,” Chief Executive
Officer Ming Z. Mei said in the statement. “We remain mindful
of the global economic conditions, but are confident that our
unrivaled market presence in China,  Japan  and now Brazil
positions us well for future growth.”  With the acquisitions in Brazil, GLP’s assets will almost
triple to $7.2 billion from $2.6 billion and create additional
recurring cash flow streams in the form of income and dividends,
Jeffrey Schwartz, deputy chairman of GLP, said on a conference
call in Singapore.  The first venture includes 34 properties and one project
under development, where GLP and CIC will each hold a 34 percent
stake, it said. The second has five development projects, which
will be jointly owned by GLP, Canada Pension and GIC, it said.  Japan, China  GLP has operations in seven locations in Japan with a
combined net asset value of $3.93 billion. It has properties in
29 cities in China with a net asset value of $3.65 billion as of
June 30, it said. In December last year, the company teamed up
with CIC to buy 15 Japanese warehouses for 122.6 billion yen
($1.5 billion) from LaSalle Investment Management.  GLP said yesterday it’s raising about 104.8 billion yen
through an initial public offering that is poised to be Japan’s
second-biggest this year. The company will sell 1.75 million
shares in the sale and seeks to list in  Tokyo  on Dec. 21,
according to a document filed with the country’s stock exchange
yesterday. The final IPO price will be set on Dec. 12, according
to the document.  The company also said yesterday its second-quarter profit
declined 3.1 percent to $194.5 million from $200.7 million.
Sales rose 25 percent to $172.9 million.  The share sale is managed by Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and China International Capital
Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  