-- Goldman Says Asian Bond Market May Face Bubble on Inflows
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-11-15T15:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/goldman-sachs-says-asian-bond-demand-surge-may-cause-bubble.html
Asia ’s bond market is facing a
possible bubble after capital inflows surged this year,
according to Goldman Sachs Asset Management Co.  Bond funds in emerging Asia took in a net $11.45 billion
this year as of Oct. 31, an 85 percent increase from $6.2
billion for the whole of 2011, according to EPFR Global. Yield
premiums on Asia’s BBB rated sovereign bonds have fallen 71
basis points this half to 173 basis points more than Treasuries
as of Nov. 14, compared with a 52 basis point slide to 164 for
similar-rated countries globally.  “If bond demand continues at these levels and distorts
prices for a long period of time, the likelihood of asset
bubbles increases,” Owi Ruivivar, a Singapore-based senior
fixed income portfolio manager at Goldman’s asset management
firm, said in a telephone interview. “The main issue with this
increased flow of funds chasing emerging market bonds is that
prices do not fully reflect economic fundamentals.”  Dollar- and local currency-denominated bond offerings in
Asia surged to records this year as low  interest rates  in the
U.S. and  Europe  heightened the appeal of the higher-yielding
assets. Investors are demanding less of a premium for dollar
notes in Asia even as the region’s growth is likely to slow to
5.4 percent this year from 5.8 percent in 2011, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . Yields on local currency debt fell
to a  record  low of 3.56 percent on Nov. 13, according to HSBC
Holdings Plc indexes.  Spreads Narrow  “Supply and demand have become the dominant drivers of
bond valuations rather than economic fundamentals,” Ruivivar
said.  Spreads on dollar bonds in Asia have narrowed 128 basis
points this year to  247.2 basis points  more than Treasuries on
Oct. 19, the smallest gap since since April 2010, HSBC Indexes
show.  “Asia’s resilience during the global financial crisis is a
big factor attracting overseas bond investors,” according to
Ruivivar.  Offerings from Asia outside  Japan  of $113.4 billion this
year have eclipsed the previous annual record of $73.3 billion
in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Local currency
bond sales are at the equivalent of $203.9 billion this year,
surpassing the previous record of $195.7 billion in 2011.  Debt Purchases  Debt-buying by the U.S.  Federal Reserve  and the  European
Central Bank  in September to support the economy have caused
yield premiums to decrease, triggering a surge in issuance. The
U.S. central bank said at the time that it will probably hold
the federal-funds  rate near zero  until at least mid-2015.  “If an environment where no real interest rates continue,
this will push investors to look for higher yields and yields in
the entire fixed income complex will move even lower,” said
Ruivivar.  The influx into fixed income, particularly in  emerging
markets  including in Asia, is understandable due to the dearth
of investment opportunities in higher-yielding products,
according to Desmond Soon, Singapore-based senior portfolio
manager at Western Asset Management.  Global sales of debt backed by commercial loans has fallen
to $121.2 billion from a record $335 billion in 2007, Bloomberg
data show.  “Prior to  Lehman Brothers , there were a lot more dollar
spread products to invest in such as mortgage-backed securities
and commercial mortgage-backed securities,” Soon said. “These
have all fallen away or have ended up in the balance sheet of
the Federal Reserve. So, while we are seeing record issuances of
Asian and emerging market corporate bonds in 2012, the reality
is that the universe for dollar spread investors has shrunk
dramatically compared to before 2008.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  