-- Midwest, Plains Farmland Surges as Crop Gains Top Drought Losses
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-11-15T20:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/great-plains-farmland-surges-as-crop-rally-tops-drought-loss-1-.html
Farmland values in the Midwest rose
13 percent in the third quarter and jumped 24 percent in the
Great Plains as record crop prices and insurance more than made
up for losses from the worst drought in 56 years, according to
separate surveys of bankers by the  Federal Reserve .  Iowa, the biggest U.S. corn and soybean grower, saw gains
of 18 percent from the same quarter in 2011, the most among the
five Midwest states in a Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago report
today.  Nebraska , the No. 3 corn grower, saw appreciations on
non-irrigated land of 30 percent, the most among seven Plains
states surveyed by the  Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City .  The drought in the U.S., the world’s biggest grain and
oilseed exporter, hurt crops from  Ohio  to  Kansas . Corn and
soybean futures surged to records earlier this year, and wheat
to a four-year high. The gains and expectations for the highest-
ever claims for crop insurance prompted the U.S. Department of
Agriculture on Aug. 28 to predict  farm income  would rise to a
record $122.2 billion this year, after previously expecting a
decline.  “Many farmers are going to have their best year they have
ever had,” said Loyd Brown, the president of Hertz Farm
Management Inc. in  Nevada ,  Iowa , which manages more than 500,000
acres in nine states. “There’s been an acceleration in sales,
and there’s still a lot of firepower looking to buy land,” he
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Rising Incomes  Incomes for Midwest crop farmers were forecast to rise in
the next six months, according to 48 percent of respondents in
the Chicago Fed’s survey of 223 bankers, while 72 percent of
bankers said earnings will fall for hog and cattle producers.  Midwest land values rose 5 percent from the second quarter,
and 36 percent of the bankers surveyed forecast higher values in
the fourth quarter. Just 1 percent of respondents expected lower
prices. Illinois gained 15 percent from a year earlier, Indiana
rose 11 percent, Wisconsin increased 8 percent, and  Michigan 
advanced 7 percent. More than half of the bankers said farmers
will seek to buy more land in the next six months, and 31
percent forecast improved demand from investors.  “The drought does not seem to have derailed bankers’
anticipation of further upward movement in farmland values,”
David B. Oppedahl, a business economist at the Chicago Fed, said
in the report. “Survey results indicated that the impetus for
higher farmland values actually strengthened during the third
quarter of 2012.”  Low Rates  An index of demand for non-real-estate loans in the
district fell during the quarter compared with a year earlier,
even as  interest rates  dropped to a record, the bank said.
Repayment rates on farm loans, loan renewals and extensions
improved, and loan volume was expected to increase in the fourth
quarter, the survey showed. Responding bankers predicted forced
sales or liquidations of farm assets among financially-stressed
farmers in the region to edge down in the next three to six
months.  The average interest rate on real-estate loans on Oct. 1
was 4.86 percent, according to the Fed. About 7 percent of
bankers surveyed required higher collateral to qualify for
loans, while 2 percent requested less.  In the  Kansas City  Fed report, farmland values rose 23
percent in  Missouri  while Kansas advanced 22 percent.  Oklahoma 
had the smallest increase at 13 percent. Irrigated land in the
region gained 22 percent, and ranch land for cattle grazing rose
14 percent from a year earlier.  Plains Drought  Drought hurt farm income during the quarter, especially for
livestock producers, boosting demand for farm operating loans,
according to the Kansas City Fed’s quarterly survey of
agricultural credit conditions. Bankers surveyed expect high
commodity prices and crop insurance to support incomes.  “The drought did not appear to have significant impact on
farmland markets in the third quarter,” bank economists  Jason Henderson  and Nathan Kauffmann said in the report. “Bankers
indicated that demand for quality farmland outpaced supply, even
with more land being put up for sale.”  The report covered the Fed’s 10th District, which includes
Kansas, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Missouri and parts of  Colorado ,
 Wyoming  and  New Mexico . Land values rose “nearly 3 percent”
from the second quarter, and about 75 percent of the bankers
surveyed anticipated farmland gains would slow as prices
“stabilize at high levels heading into 2013,” the economists
said in the report.  Feed Costs  Bankers surveyed expressed some concerns that the jump in
feed costs may lead to a further reduction in livestock herds if
grain inventories remain low and pastures remain dry, the Fed
said. A government report tomorrow may show that high corn
prices reduced the number of cattle in feedlots on Nov. 1 by 5.3
percent from a year earlier, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Incomes fell during the quarter from a year earlier for the
first time in two years as higher feed and fuel prices increased
costs for livestock operations and drought wilted crops,
boosting loan demand, according to the Kansas City Fed.  “Shrinking incomes curtailed farm spending on capital
purchases,” the Kansas City Fed economists said. “Bankers
reported lower  capital spending  compared with year-ago levels
for the first time since early 2010. Capital spending was
expected to remain low in the fourth quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  