-- Greece Asks U.K. Chancellor for HSBC Account Holders in Jersey
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-11-15T17:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/greece-asks-u-k-chancellor-for-hsbc-account-holders-in-jersey.html
Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras has requested information from the U.K. government on
Greeks holding  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  accounts in  Jersey .  Stournaras wrote to U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  asking for the information, according to an e-mailed
statement from the Athens-based  Finance Ministry .  British tax authorities are investigating a list of more
than 4,000 British residents who have bank accounts with HSBC,
Europe’s largest lender, in the offshore tax haven of Jersey,
Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs said on Nov. 9. The probe
comes as London-based HSBC faces a separate investigation into
 money laundering  in the U.S.  Officials for HMRC and HSBC declined to comment on Greece’s
request.  The Jersey Financial Services Commission, the island’s
financial regulator,  said  on Nov. 13 it will investigate HSBC’s
data loss and examine the “anti-money laundering systems and
controls” at the bank. HSBC told the regulator it will co-
operate.  HSBC’s Swiss private bank has suffered “reputational and
financial damage” since Herve Falciani, a former software
technician in Geneva, stole details on 24,000 accounts, HSBC
Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  said in May. The French
government used the data to search for tax dodgers and shared
the information with Italian, Spanish and British prosecutors.  HSBC said last week it’s likely to face criminal charges
from U.S. anti-money-laundering probes and warned the cost of a
settlement may “significantly” exceed the $1.5 billion the
bank has set aside.  Depositors pulled about 69 billion euros ($88 billion) from
their accounts in Greece between October 2009 and June this year
after the nation triggered a region-wide sovereign-debt crisis.
In June, the nation’s elections led households to accelerate
outflows to a peak of more than 700 million euros a week.
Deposits have stabilized since, rising from about 127.4 billion
at the end of June to 130.9 billion euros by the end of
September, Greek central bank data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  