-- Grover Norquist’s Gift to Obama
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-15T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/grover-norquist-s-gift-to-obama.html
Is  Grover Norquist  really going to
let  John Boehner  get away with this?  Boehner, the Republican speaker of the U.S. House, thinks
he has found a way out of the corner Norquist has put him in.
Norquist is the conservative gadfly and chief enforcer of the
 no-tax pledge , which requires all signers to swear on  Ronald Reagan ’s grave never -- never ever -- to vote for a tax
increase.  Boehner, who along with practically everyone else in his
party has signed the pledge, has lately been  careful to say  that
what he opposes is a “ tax-rate  increase.” But you can raise a
fellow’s taxes quite a bit without touching his tax rate.  Your tax rate is just the percentage of the last dollar you
earn that goes for taxes. But your bottom-line tax bill is
affected by many other things: not just deductions and
exclusions (known as “loopholes” when you don’t approve of
them), but also by tax brackets and rates below the top. By the
end of the presidential campaign, even Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  was  talking about  phasing out deductions as incomes rise,
or limiting how many dollars of deductions someone can take.  In short, there’s more than one way to skin a fat cat.
Theoretically, you can reverse-engineer a  tax code  raising
almost any amount of money you want -- and with almost any
distribution of the burden you want -- without touching the top
tax rate. Politically, of course, it might not be so easy.  None of this changes the fact that it’s possible to make
the tax code more progressive without raising rates. Or that
Boehner is begging for a deal that could be labeled  tax reform ,
not a tax increase. Close the loopholes, enjoy the revenue, and
keep the top rate steady. Or, what the heck, close some more
loopholes, lower the top tax rate, and still have enough to
throw at the national debt. Maybe even start a new program or
two.  On top of everything, this would even be good  tax policy .
Loopholes complicate the tax code and create perverse incentives
in the economy.  So why isn’t President  Barack Obama  seizing the deal and
declaring victory before Norquist wakes up? Why is he  insisting
on  a tax-rate increase for high-income people? That’s not a
rhetorical question. We really don’t get it.  The best we can come up with is that the president’s
position is tactical, not on the merits. He might think, with
some justification, that  House Republicans  won’t necessarily
follow their speaker. And with all the tax cuts expiring in a
matter of weeks, his position is only going to get stronger: If
everyone’s taxes go up on Jan. 1, more than just Norquist will
be unhappy.  We don’t believe, as  Obama’s critics do , that the president
wants a tax increase simply to soak the rich. We believe he
wants a tax increase to raise the money needed to run the
government, and to do so as fairly and efficiently as possible.  At least, we want to believe that.  Norquist reiterated  his
humble brag this week about how he has no power to release
members of Congress from their promise. “The pledge is to the
American people,” he said. Which makes the task all the more
urgent: Mr. President, cut a deal with Boehner before the
Norquist monster fully awakes.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Israel’s right to respond  to
rocket attacks and on why  simple banking regulations are better ;
Stephen L. Carter on what  Obama can learn from FDR  about
business;  Susan Crawford  on  why mobile phones went dead after
Hurricane Sandy ; William Pesek on  Obama’s Southeast Asia trip ;
 Jonathan Weil  on the  Justice Department ’s  white-collar
prosecution numbers ; Michael Petrilli on what  education
reformers need to do differently ; Kori Schake on  adultery and
the U.S. military honor code .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 