-- India Guar Gum Exports to Fall as Drillers Seek Substitutes
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2012-11-15T14:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/guar-gum-exports-from-india-to-fall-as-drillers-seek-substitutes.html
India ’s exports of guar gum, a
thickening agent used for oil and gas extraction, may drop for
the first time in three years after a record surge in prices
forced drilling companies to seek cheaper alternatives.  Shipments may decline as much as 30 percent in the year
that began on April 1 from 650,000 metric tons a year earlier,
said P.K. Hissaria, president of the Indian Guar Gum
Manufacturers Association. Exports in the six months through
September were about 100,000 tons and sales will accelerate from
this month with the arrival of the new crop, he said.  Falling exports may weigh on prices, which have slumped
about 63 percent since reaching a record in March, lowering
costs for oil and gas drilling services companies including
 Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and Baker Hughes Inc. Lower prices will allow
food companies easy access to a raw material that’s also used as
an ingredient in food emulsifiers, additives and thickeners.  “Low demand and high supply translates into lower
prices,” said Charlie Blanchard, an analyst with Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  Guar gum rallied more than nine-fold in one year to 95,920
rupees ($1,742) per 100 kilograms on the National Commodity &
Derivatives Exchange Ltd. in  Mumbai , forcing the commodity
market regulator to suspend futures trading in March. The rally
boosted costs for Halliburton, the world’s largest provider of
hydraulic-fracturing services, Chief Executive Officer Dave
Lesar said in a conference call with analysts on Oct. 17.  Pressure-Pumping  Halliburton and  Baker Hughes (BHI)  help companies drill and
complete oil and gas wells using a pressure-pumping technique
known as fracking, which blasts water mixed with sand and
chemicals underground to free trapped hydrocarbons from shale
formations. Guar is made into a thickening gel used to carry
sand down a well and into the cracks created from fracturing.  India accounts for more than 70 percent of the global
production of guar, which means “cow food” in Hindi, according
to the  Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. (MCX)  The seed is also
grown in Pakistan and the U.S.  Spot prices have slumped to $6,500 a ton since India banned
futures trading and on expectations of a bigger crop, said Mitul
Shah, managing director of Rama Industries, India’s third-
largest shipper. Oil and gas drilling companies will use guar
only if prices were about $5,500 a ton as alternatives such as
carbon methyl cellulose were available at lower prices, he said.  Higher inventories with the drilling companies and slowing
drilling activities had reduced demand for Indian guar gum
supplies, Shah said.  Inventory  “Moving into next year we expect a reduction in guar costs
as we take deliveries of new lower-cost inventory which we
believe will translate into a tailwind to our PE margins in
2013,” Halliburton’s Lesar said.  Halliburton has developed an alternative to guar gum called
PermStim that’s highly competitive in the event of future guar
cost escalation, Timothy J. Probert, president for strategy and
corporate development, told  analysts .  Guar seed production may climb to as much as 2.5 million
tons this year, enough to make at least 600,000 tons of guar
gum, from about 1.5 million tons in 2011-12, manufacturers’
association’s Hissaria said. The harvest has begun and arrivals
will gather pace from the end of this month, he said.  The crop area under guar is estimated to have increased 56
percent to about 5 million hectares (12.4 million acres) this
year in three major growing states of Rajasthan, Haryana and
Gujarat, said Rajesh Kedia, director at Jai Bharat Gum &
Chemicals Ltd., India’s second-biggest exporter of guar gum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  