-- IBM to Offer $4 Billion in Client Financing Through Partners
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-11-15T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/ibm-to-offer-4-billion-in-client-financing-through-partners.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the largest computer-services provider, is loaning $4
billion through business partners to encourage client spending,
with terms including no interest for the first year.  To encourage lending, IBM developed an application for
iPads and smartphones that will allow partners to approve their
clients for contracts of as much as $500,000 in minutes, the
company said today in a statement. IBM will administer the loans
over the next 12 months through its global financing  unit , which
managed $36 billion in assets as of last year.  “Businesses both large and small are having tough times
with this tight credit market,” said Mark Hennessy, general
manager of IBM’s global business partners and midmarket, in an
interview. “This is an enhanced focus on supporting our
partners taking our solution to market.”  Clients will come to IBM for simpler, more flexible loans
because “banks don’t necessarily understand this space as
well,” Hennessy said. The loans will make it easier for
business partners to sell their own technology combined with IBM
hardware or cloud computing and analytics products, with some
financing offered interest-free for 12 months with no money
down, according to the statement.  In cloud computing, companies hire providers such as IBM to
store data and applications remotely.  IBM’s global financing unit has operated since 1981 and
uses standard industry tools to evaluate  default risk , the
company said.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Cisco Systems (CSCO)  Inc. have
similar loan options. IBM issued $1 billion in loans to small
and medium-size businesses through its partners in 2011, the
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  