-- ICAP Said to Shut Four-Person NYSE Unit After Polcari Quits
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-11-15T03:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/icap-said-to-shut-four-person-nyse-unit-after-polcari-quits-1-.html
ICAP Plc (IAP) , the world’s largest broker
of transactions between banks, is shutting its four-person New
York Stock Exchange floor trading unit, according to two people
with direct knowledge of the matter.  The company took the action after its highest-profile NYSE
trader, Kenneth Polcari, resigned to pursue other interests last
month, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the decision hasn’t been made public. Guy Taylor, a
company spokesman, declined to comment.  ICAP’s action comes in a year in which average U.S.
equities  volume  has fallen 19 percent from 2011 to about 6.5
billion shares a day, the lowest since at least 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company maintains an U.S.
equity trading operation with about 20 people in  Jersey City ,
 New Jersey , that won’t be affected by the closure, one of the
people said.  The shutdown was reported earlier by the Financial Times.  Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis is forcing ICAP to cut costs
to bolster profit as transactions on its foreign-exchange and
fixed-income trading platforms slip. The company expects to make
more than 50 million pounds ($79 million) of reductions by the
end of this financial year.  The London-based firm reported a 26 percent decline in
 profit  yesterday as transactions in markets spanning stocks,
bonds, currency and derivatives slumped.  “This has been one of the toughest periods in my 36-year
career in the wholesale financial markets,” Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Spencer  said yesterday when the earnings were
released. “I do not believe this negative environment will
continue indefinitely, but equally I do not expect it to improve
imminently.”  ICAP shares fell 9.2 percent to 281.40 pence in  London 
yesterday. Full-year profit will be at the “low end” of the
300 million-pound to 332 million-pound range of analyst
estimates, the company said on Nov. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  