-- Microsoft’s Ballmer Says Company Must Combine Hardware, Software
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-11-15T09:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/microsoft-s-ballmer-says-company-must-combine-hardware-software.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Ballmer  said the maker of Windows programs must
exploit the opportunity to combine hardware and software as it
challenges  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad with the Surface tablet computer.  Microsoft, the world’s  largest software maker , won’t cede
that market to competitors even as partners build the “lion’s
share” of devices using Windows in the next five years, Ballmer
said yesterday during an address at the  Churchill Club  speaker
series in  Santa Clara ,  California . The company recognizes
“there’s an innovation opportunity” by collaborating across
hardware and software, he said.  Microsoft is undertaking an overhaul of its product line
meant to keep it relevant in the post-PC era. The company
dominated the technology landscape during the heyday of the
personal computer in the 1990s and much of the last decade, yet
has been eclipsed in influence by a resurgent Apple and the rise
of mobile devices taking the place of PCs that run Microsoft’s
flagship Windows operating system.  “We really reimagined Windows,” he said at the on-stage
discussion with  Reid Hoffman , the chairman and co-founder of the
online business network LinkedIn Corp. “The distinction between
a PC and a tablet I think, at least in our ecosystem, completely
goes away.”  Sinofsky Departure  Microsoft pushed out Windows division chief Steven Sinofsky
this week as Ballmer pushes for more cross-product coordination
to fight back against Apple and other mobile-device makers,
people with knowledge of the matter said. Ballmer is putting in
place a new team to start work on the next generation of
products after the release of Windows 8, the Surface and mobile-
phone software last month.  Sinofsky’s duties were reassigned to Julie Larson-Green,
who will take charge of all software and hardware for Windows,
and Tami Reller, who adds oversight of the Windows business to
her marketing and finance responsibilities.  “The new team is fantastic,” Ballmer said.  On the Web,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  has made its pages hubs for many of
Internet users’ activities, and its Android operating system
powers many of the world’s mobile phones and tablet computers,
markets Microsoft has tried for years to penetrate. Ballmer, 56,
is trying to adapt in a computer industry landscape vastly
changed from when he took over as CEO from co-founder  Bill Gates 
in 2000.  HP, Dell  In response to shifting trends, the Redmond, Washington-
based company last month released Windows 8 -- the biggest
change to its flagship product in nearly two decades -- designed
around a revamped home screen featuring colorful tiles that
launch programs and update users with current information from
the Internet.  “With technology companies, you either move forward or you
die,” Ballmer said.  On Oct. 26, the same day Windows 8 went on sale, Microsoft
started selling Surface, its first foray into the computer
market. The tablet, featuring attachable keyboards that double
as covers, was designed by Microsoft and runs Windows RT, a
special version for chips from ARM Holdings Plc -- and a break
from the company’s traditional PC partners  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,
 Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)   ‘Seminal Moment’  Ballmer said in an Oct. 25 interview with Bloomberg TV’s
 Cory Johnson  that the release of Windows 8 and Surface is one of
“three seminal moments” in his 32-year Microsoft career,
standing alongside releasing Windows 95 and the advent of
International Business Machines Corp.’s first PC in 1981.  Microsoft is relying on the new operating system to revive
interest in the personal computer. The PC market will contract
by 1.2 percent to 348.7 million units this year, according to
IHS ISuppli. That would be the first annual decline since 2001.  “Surface is a best-in-class product” and sets a high bar
for PC makers to clear, said  Rick Sherlund , an analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in  New York . Sherlund, who recommends buying
Microsoft shares, estimates the company can sell 2 million
Surface computers in the fourth quarter.  Shares of Microsoft have underperformed the broader stock
market the past five years, losing 21 percent of their value
compared with a 6.6 percent drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and an 11 percent gain for the S&P 500 Information
Technology Index. Fiscal first-quarter sales for the period
ended in September fell 8 percent as sales of Windows and Office
both declined.  ‘Wild’ Android  Apple’s Macs, iPads and iPhones are replacing many of the
jobs once done by Windows machines, and Apple has supplanted
Microsoft as the center of gravity for outside software
developers whose products make each platform more compelling.
Apple said Nov. 5 it sold 3 million fourth-generation iPads and
iPad mini models during their debut weekend.  Smartphone versions of Windows held just 2 percent of the
market in the third quarter, dwarfed by the 75 percent share of
Google’s Android and 14.9 percent for Apple’s iOS.  Microsoft is making plans for the possible creation of its
own smartphone, according to people with knowledge of the
company’s plans. The company on Oct. 29 introduced the latest
version of its Windows Phone software that relies on the same
underlying code as desktop and tablet Windows.  Microsoft, which has single-digit market share in
smartphones, wants to get 10 percent to 15 percent share as its
next step, Ballmer said. Windows-based smartphones have an
opportunity to stand out because “all these phones look the
darned same,” he said.  Ballmer said there’s an opportunity for Windows on
smartphones and tablets since Android is “wild” and the iOS
ecosystem is “controlled” and high-priced.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  