-- LightSquared Demise Won’t Doom Wireless Plan, Inmarsat Says
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-11-15T23:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/lightsquared-demise-wouldn-t-doom-wireless-plan-inmarsat-says.html
Inmarsat Plc (ISAT) , stuck in a stalled
project with  Philip Falcone ’s LightSquared Inc. to create a
satellite-based, high-speed Internet network in the U.S., aims
to pursue the plan even if its partner is liquidated.  LightSquared filed for bankruptcy in May, following a
February decision by the Federal Communications Commission to
block the service, citing interference with global-positioning
devices used in navigating everything from fighter jets to
minivans. London-based Inmarsat had contributed U.S. airwave
licenses to the project, which would serve as many as 260
million people.  Should LightSquared, majority-owned by Falcone’s hedge fund
Harbinger Capital Partners, go into liquidation, others may step
in as partners to use Inmarsat’s airwaves, Chief Executive
Officer Rupert Pearce said yesterday in an interview. Otherwise,
the agreement will terminate, and the largest provider of
satellite services to the maritime industry could later decide
whether to attempt the project itself, he said.  “LightSquared doesn’t have the luxury of a 10-year view or
even a five-year view -- we do,” said Pearce, who was attending
a conference organized by Morgan Stanley in Barcelona. “It’s
perfectly possible that even after the demise of LightSquared,
there might be opportunities to re-partner or even for us to
move forward ourselves when the regulatory environment matures
to a point where this GPS issue isn’t an issue anymore.”  FCC Remedies  Ashley Durmer, a spokeswoman for Lightsquared, declined to
comment. Pearce didn’t specify whether Inmarsat would need to
acquire additional airwaves to offer its own wireless  Internet
service  in the U.S.  LightSquared, based in Reston,  Virginia , has offered
remedies to the FCC, including sharing airwaves with federal-
government users. Pearce said he’s supporting LightSquared and
prefers it to succeed in the FCC discussions.  Inmarsat last received a payment from LightSquared in April
and said at the time that no other payment was due until April
2014. That schedule still stands, Pearce said yesterday.  Inmarsat climbed 1.2 percent to close at 562 pence in
London trading today. The stock has gained 39 percent this year,
the second best performer on the 23-member Bloomberg Europe
Telecommunication Services  Index (BETELES)  after  TalkTalk Telecom Group
Plc. (TALK)   Segovia Acquisition  The company may consider acquisitions that would help
“supercharge or de-risk” Inmarsat’s Global Xpress fast mobile
data service, through which it seeks to gain business with
government, maritime and energy clients, Pearce said. The
service will start next year, with full global coverage
available by late 2014, he said.  The company’s acquisitions of Segovia Inc. in 2010 and of
Ship Equip International AS last year are examples of the kind
of assets that would interest Inmarsat, Pearce said. The company
sets “very high targets for return on invested capital,” he
said, adding that “prices are still very high” for private
companies compared with the value assigned by the stock market
to publicly traded ones.  “If we don’t see alluring opportunities like that, our
duty is to return cash to shareholders,” he said. “We should
be able to continue to improve the rate of return of cash to
shareholders pretty much whatever the future holds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Barcelona at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  