-- Iliad to Put Cash Into French Network as Competitors Prepare 4G
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-11-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/iliad-to-put-cash-into-french-network-as-competitors-prepare-4g.html
Iliad SA (ILD) , the mobile operator that
drove prices down in  France  with a 2-euro-a-month offering, will
focus on building its network and winning customers as
competitors move to faster, fourth-generation services.  Iliad is committed to covering 75 percent of the French
population by 2015 and 90 percent by 2018, Chief Financial
Officer Thomas Reynaud said yesterday in an interview in
Barcelona during a conference organized by Morgan Stanley.  In the midst of price wars, competitors SFR and  France
Telecom SA (FTE)  are planning to use 4G service to differentiate their
services and increase prices. Paris-based Iliad, which relies on
roaming agreements to offer much of its 3G service, is willing
to sacrifice profit to complete the project and ensure that it
continues to take market share, Reynaud said.  “The priority of the group is not roaming, the priority of
the group is to roll out its own network,” Reynaud said. The
company’s network covers about 31 percent of France, the
country’s national frequency agency said in May.  France Telecom reached an agreement in March 2011 to let
customers of Iliad’s Free brand roam on its 3G network. Iliad
estimated that it had 6.4 percent of the mobile market at the
end of September this year. France Telecom Chief Executive
Officer Stephane Richard said last month that he wasn’t
considering extending the offer to 4G.  The top three operators in France --  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s SFR,
France Telecom’s Orange, and Bouygues Telecom -- have reduced
rates in response to Free’s plans.  SFR predicts revenue per user won’t decline as much next
year as in 2012 as it persuades consumers to spend on faster
mobile Internet services as a strategy to exit a price war,
Chief Executive Officer Stephane Roussel said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in Barcelona at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Montpellier, France at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  