-- Hillshire Ripe for Cheap Deal for Meat Producer: Real M&A
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-11-15T03:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/hillshire-ripe-for-cheap-deal-for-meat-producer-real-m-a.html
The prospect of selling meat under
 Hillshire Brands Co. (HSH) ’s labels is putting the maker of Jimmy Dean
sausages and Ball Park hot dogs on the menu for producers
ranging from  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  to  Hormel (HRL)  Foods Corp. and  JBS (JBSS3)  SA.  Buyers may be tempted to pursue Hillshire while it trades
at a 21 percent discount to estimated fiscal 2013 sales, worse
than the average among U.S. food manufacturers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Called Sara Lee Corp. before
spinning off its tea and coffee unit in June, the $3.2 billion
company has the top U.S. market share in hot dogs and sausages.  Purchasing the only independent, publicly traded meat
seller with top national brands would give poultry, pork and
beef processors the chance to boost margins with labels that
also include Hillshire Farm and Gallo Salame. Tyson and Hormel
are the most likely suitors, said Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
JBS, which ended takeover talks with Sara Lee in 2011 before the
spinoff because it was too expensive, might also express
interest, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “Hillshire could be an acquisition target,”  Alexia Howard , a New York-based analyst for Bernstein, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s high margin. It’s less volatile in
terms of profit. The brands bring you more negotiating leverage
with retailers.”  Matthew Pakula, a spokesman for  Downers Grove , Illinois-
based Hillshire, declined to comment on the company’s takeover
prospects.  New Flavors  The former Sara Lee renamed itself Hillshire in June after
spinning off  D.E Master Blenders 1753 NV (DE) , a tea and coffee
company, to shareholders. Hillshire Chief Executive Officer Sean Connolly is now focused on items such as improving lunch meat
quality and packaging, developing new hot dog flavors and
winning over more households with its snacks and meals.  The  company ’s price-sales ratio is relatively low. At 0.79
times projected fiscal 2013 revenue, Hillshire fetches a lower
multiple than the 1.01 average among U.S. food manufacturers
valued at $1 billion or more, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The stock has fallen 9.3 percent since June 29, the first day of
trading following the spinoff, closing at $26.29 yesterday.  “From a valuation standpoint, we think it’s attractive,”
said Kevin Dreyer, a  money manager  at Rye, New York-based
Gabelli & Co., which oversees about $37 billion including
Hillshire shares. Dreyer estimates the company, which he called
an “attractive takeover candidate,” could be sold for about
$37 or $38 a share.  Takeover Premium  Ken Goldman , a New York-based analyst at JPMorgan, has a
December 2013 price  forecast  of $33 for the stock, saying in a
Nov. 1 report this factors in a 10 percent takeover premium.  Hillshire may be attractive to meat processors, whose
businesses include raising and slaughtering animals, given that
it offers immediate access to national brands, according to
 Wells Fargo & Co .’s John Baumgartner.  With rival Oscar Mayer already owned by  Kraft Foods Group
Inc. (KRFT) , Hillshire offers the biggest potential deal for suitors
among branded meat sellers. Hillshire holds the top market share
in sausage and hot dogs and the second spot for frozen
breakfasts and sliced lunch meat, the Wells Fargo analyst wrote
in an Oct. 1 report, citing data from Nielsen Co.  “Really it’s just the Hillshire portfolio and Oscar Mayer
as kind of the main national brands,” Baumgartner said in a
phone interview. Hillshire has “done a really good job over the
past five years or so in really putting together the frozen
breakfast case and protein breakfast with  Jimmy Dean . Pretty
good innovation, pretty good marketing campaigns behind it.”  Financial Capability  Hormel, based in Austin, Minnesota, and Tyson of
Springdale,  Arkansas , may be interested in Hillshire and have
the financial capability to do a deal, said Bernstein’s Howard.  Hormel has added Mexican cuisine and packaged foods through
deals in the past decade. The company has a borrowing capacity
of about $1 billion, and deals bigger than that depend on the
target’s cash generation and Hormel’s desire to maintain an
investment-grade  credit rating , CEO Jeffrey M. Ettinger said
during an investor presentation on Sept. 6.  Alaina Freeman, a spokesman for Hormel who works at Burson-
Marsteller, declined to comment on whether the company has any
interest in Hillshire.  Tyson, the largest U.S. meat processor, is trying to expand
sales by promoting easy-to-prepare foods and expanding uses for
chicken, CEO Donnie Smith told analysts on Aug. 6.  Gary Mickelson, a Tyson spokesman, declined to comment.  Less Slaughter  Tyson, Hormel and  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) , the world’s
largest hog processor, are looking to make acquisitions to add
packaged-meat items, said  Farha Aslam , a New York-based analyst
at Stephens Inc. Rising grain prices will cap the number of
animals heading to slaughter next year, which means more
slaughtering plants aren’t needed, she said. Thus, the three
meat processors are looking for growth through consumer meat
products, Aslam said.  “All three companies’ balance sheets have healed, and they
have the financial flexibility to pursue acquisition
opportunities,” Aslam said.  JPMorgan’s Goldman said Sao Paulo-based JBS, the world’s
biggest beef producer, is a possible buyer. Gimme Credit LLC’s
Vicki Bryan agreed, writing in an e-mail that JBS “could find
Hillshire complementary.”  JBS CEO Wesley Batista said in July 2011 that he stopped
takeover talks with Hillshire predecessor Sara Lee because the
stock was too expensive. At the time, Batista said he was only
interested in the meat operations.  ‘Not Interested’  Now, JBS is focused on “digesting previous acquisitions
and on organic growth,” he said during an interview this week
in  Sao Paulo . “I haven’t looked, and I am not interested,”
Batista said regarding Hillshire.  Hillshire may be too big for Smithfield Foods and Tyson to
consider,  Tim Ramey , a  Lake Oswego , Oregon-based analyst at D.A.
Davidson & Co., said in a phone interview. Their market values
are $3.1 billion and $6.1 billion, respectively.  Keira Lombardo, a spokeswoman for Smithfield, Virginia-
based Smithfield Foods, declined to comment.  Hillshire’s valuation and higher-margin products will
eventually stir interest among acquirers, Gabelli’s Dreyer said.
For Tyson and JBS, buying Hillshire would mean picking up a
company with an 8.3 percent operating margin last quarter that
was more than double their most recently reported figures.  “They’ve got a good business, a great brand and somebody
is going to want to own them,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  