-- In Petraeus Scandal, FBI Has Explaining to Do
-- B y   T i m   W e i n e r
-- 2012-11-15T02:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/in-petraeus-scandal-fbi-has-explaining-to-do.html
The disgrace of David Petraeus
shouldn’t damage the Central Intelligence Agency. Congress may
summon or subpoena the former director and his paramour to
testify about their relationship; it may lash them for the sins
of pride and lust; it may even try to blame the death of an
American ambassador in  Libya  on a distracted CIA. That would be
a waste of time and breath.  But the Petraeus affair may well tarnish the  Federal Bureau
of Investigation . And maybe it should. There are more than a few
bad actors in this tragicomedy. Worst of all, as far as we know
now, it was an FBI agent -- identified by the  New York  Times as
Frederick W. Humphries II -- who took it upon himself to
transmit a raw report on the case to a member of Congress. That
isn’t whistle-blowing. It has nothing to do with the rule of law
or the national security of the U.S. The singular significant
fact of the affair thus far is the way in which it came to
light. The agent, and the FBI as an institution, should be
called to account.  The bureau has the awesome power to destroy anyone in the
U.S. by searching their computers, rifling their records,
reading their mail and stealing their secrets. It can do that
under law, with a judge’s warrant. Or it can ruin people for no
real reason, as it did for decades under J. Edgar Hoover.  The CIA as an institution has reason to resent the conduct
of the FBI in this case. It would be a disaster if that
resentment revives the long-standing rivalry between the
agencies. For more than 50 years, they were at each others’
throats, constantly skirmishing and sniping. And the more they
made war, the less safe Americans were.  Cooperation Failure  Their failure to cooperate contributed mightily to the
success of the Sept. 11 attacks, as the 9/11 commission
concluded. The national security chief at the FBI, John O’Neill,
and the head of the CIA’s bin Laden desk, Michael Scheuer,
refused to share crucial intelligence. They built walls between
their agencies, mortared with mutual hatred. After O’Neill was
killed inside the World Trade Center during the attack, Scheuer
testified in public that his death was “the only good thing”
that happened that day.  Hoover started the battle himself. He was a hater, and he
truly despised the CIA from the day of its creation after World
War II. He saw it as a rival for power; he cursed it as a haven
for communist sympathizers; he cultivated secret informers
within its walls. “It is a tragedy that the true phoniness of
CIA isn’t exposed,” he wrote in royal blue ink on one of his
innumerable broadsides against the agency.  Hoover’s political warfare drove his Cold War counterpart,
Allen Dulles, the CIA’s chief from 1953 to 1961, to deep
despair. “How in the world can I do business with the bureau?”
Dulles shouted at his FBI liaison. “I try, and you keep striking
back.”  But the balance of power always lay with the bureau, and
that power came from presidents.  Franklin D. Roosevelt  gave
Hoover the secret authority to eavesdrop on Americans, to plant
hidden microphones in their bedrooms and boardrooms, and to
purloin secrets through burglary and break-ins. When the U.S.
Supreme Court outlawed telephone wiretaps, Roosevelt told
Hoover: To hell with the court.  Harry Truman  worried aloud that
the bureau would become an “American Gestapo.”  John F. Kennedy 
knew Hoover had 20-year-old sex tapes of his tryst with a
suspected Nazi agent; he shared his national security adviser’s
opinion that Hoover was “a goddamned sewer” collecting and
disseminating dirt.  Presidents want the bureau to give them secret intelligence
(and sometimes political scuttlebutt). It serves as a sword and
a shield. But in the FBI’s hands, the sword can cut both ways.  FBI Power  Unique among federal agencies, the bureau can break
presidents.  Richard Nixon  fell because the FBI fearlessly
investigated Watergate (and secretly leaked the facts to
reporters). FBI agents made felony cases against  Ronald Reagan ’s
national security team in the Iran-contra imbroglio (Reagan
protected himself by appointing the bureau’s director to take
over the CIA). The FBI literally drew blood from  Bill Clinton ;
the DNA evidence led to his impeachment for lying about sex.  The bureau’s current director, Robert S. Mueller III,
deserves great credit for trying to make peace between the
bureau and the agency. That hasn’t been an easy task, but his
endurance in office has been a blessing. The CIA, deposed from
pre-eminence in the American intelligence establishment,
discredited by bogus reporting on phantom weapons of mass
destruction in  Iraq , dishonored by brutal interrogations of
suspected terrorists in secret prisons, rarely keeps its
directors for long; five men have held the post in the past
eight years. By contrast, Mueller -- who took office, God help
him, on Sept. 4, 2001 -- has served with quiet distinction for
more than 11 years in the J. Edgar Hoover Building.  In Hoover’s day, instructors at the FBI Academy taught
newly hired agents to revere Hoover by citing the words of Ralph Waldo Emerson: “An institution is the lengthened shadow of one
man.” Hoover ruled by fear. He invented the modern surveillance
state. And we still live in his shadow.  Mueller cannot sandblast Hoover’s name off the FBI
headquarters. He can come out of the building and rule that the
FBI agent in this case was out of bounds. Backhanding raw case
files to Congress is outside the law. For an agent to decide
that he alone knows what is best for the U.S. -- a decision that
destroyed the director of the CIA -- is a dirty business. At the
least, a confession of error made by Mueller in public -- and by
the agent, preferably under oath -- might help prevent renewed
hostilities between the nation’s two best known intelligence
services.  Mueller should make clear to the American people that the
FBI will not and cannot countenance a return to an era of
backstabbing and blackmail. That kind of blood sport was
supposed to have died with Hoover, 40 long years ago.  (Tim Weiner, a former reporter for the New York Times, is
the author of “Enemies: A History of the FBI” and “Legacy of
Ashes: The History of the CIA.” The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on a  tax compromise both parties
can live with  and on  how to fund oversight of nonprofit groups ;
 Caroline Baum  on the  CEO group that wants to fix the debt ;
 Michael Kinsley  on why TV insists on  Election Night suspense ;
 Ezra Klein  on why  tax reform won’t live up to its billing ;
Jonathan Mahler in defense of  John Calipari and the one-season
collegiate basketball career .  To contact the writer of this article:
Tim Weiner at  tiwein@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 