-- Innospec, Blackstone Raise TPC Offer to $744.7 Million
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-11-15T21:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/innospec-blackstone-raise-tpc-offer-to-744-7-million.html
Innospec Inc. (IOSP)  and  Blackstone Group
LP (BX)  raised their offer for TPC Group Inc. to $744.7 million, a
week after the U.S. petrochemicals producer ended talks with
them and agreed to be bought by two private-equity firms.  Innospec offered $47.50 a share, up from a range of $44 to
$46, Houston-based TPC said today in a statement. Blackstone
will provide equity financing for the bid, Innospec said in a
separate statement. The purchase would include assumption of
$212.8 million of net debt, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  TPC will restart talks with Innospec and will allow
Blackstone and the Littleton, Colorado-based fuel-additives
producer to resume due diligence. On Nov. 8, TPC said it ended
discussions with Innospec and agreed to a revised $45-a-share
offer from funds backed by First Reserve Corp. and SK Capital
Partners, which had previously bid $40.  “Our diligence so far has confirmed our initial findings
that TPC is a good strategic fit with Innospec,” Patrick Williams, Innospec’s chief executive officer, said in the
statement.  TPC is the world’s biggest maker of butadiene, a chemical
used to make synthetic rubber, and competes with LyondellBasell
Industries NV, Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Exxon Mobil Corp. It
plans to expand output by refurbishing a Houston plant to make
the chemical from butane, a component of natural gas that has
increased in supply with production from shale-rock formations.  Shareholder Vote  TPC  rose  3.9 percent to $47.78 at the close in  New York ,
the highest since the shares began trading in 2004. Innospec
climbed 0.8 percent to $29.80.  TPC shareholders are scheduled to vote Dec. 5 on the offer
from First Reserve and SK, which has regulatory approval.
Innospec expects to submit a definitive proposal before then,
TPC said. Innospec said its shareholders wouldn’t need to
approve the transaction, TPC said.  Sandell Asset Management Corp., the third-largest TPC
investor according to data compiled by Bloomberg, said on Nov. 9
that the company shouldn’t have broken off talks with Innospec
and should hold an auction to realize the highest price.  Sandell called the initial $40 bid from First Reserve and
SK an “outrage” and an attempt to steal the company at the
bottom of the industry’s cycle. If  TPC (TPCG)  hadn’t received a bid,
the shares would have risen to $55 to $57 in the next year,
Chief Executive Officer Thomas E. Sandell wrote in an Aug. 28
letter to TPC’s board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  