-- Investec Profit Drops on Impairments, Rand, Rising Costs
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-11-15T15:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/investec-first-half-profit-drops-on-rising-costs-weaker-rand.html
Investec Plc (INL) , which owns a bank and
money manager in South Africa and the U.K., said first-half
profit fell 5 percent amid loan impairments, rising costs and a
weaker rand.  Net income dropped to 168.5 million pounds ($267 million)
in the six months ended Sept. 30 from 179 million pounds a year
earlier, the London- and Johannesburg-based lender said in a
statement today. Adjusted earnings per share fell to 19.7 pence
from 20.6 pence last year, missing the 19.9 pence mean estimate
of two analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The operating environment is expected to be “challenging”
in the next six months, Chief Executive Officer Stephen Koseff
said in a presentation today. The company incurred 115.6 million
pounds in impairments on loans and advances in the period, while
interest income fell 4 percent to 1.13 billion pounds. Investec
has been hurt by a stagnant U.K. economy and impaired mortgages
in  Australia , while a series of acquisitions have increased the
company’s cost base.  “The results are all about bad debt impairments and there
is no top line growth,” Patrice Rassou, head of equities at
Sanlam Investment Management in  Cape Town , said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “They have not cut headcount
aggressively, which could be the next area of focus.”  The  shares  closed 1.6 percent higher at 53.16 rand in
Johannesburg, reversing an earlier 3.2 percent decline.
Investec’s South African shares have gained 21 percent this
year, compared with the 19 percent average increase of the six-
member  FTSE/JSE Africa Banks Index. (JBNKS)   Return on Equity  Having made three all-stock acquisitions in Britain in a
decade, including brokerage Evolution Group Plc and investment
manager Rensburg Sheppards Plc, Investec’s return on equity fell
below its South African peers. First-half return on equity was
9.3 percent, Koseff said in the presentation today.  “Driving the growth in return on equity remains our main
focus,” he said in the statement. Investec plans to improve
efficiency by eliminating duplication and taking on more
clients, he said.  The company said today it would “consolidate gains” in
asset management and “broaden the distribution of the wealth
management offering.”  Investec Asset Management recorded net inflows of 1.5
billion pounds in the period, taking total funds under
management to 62.4 billion pounds. That’s less than the 65.6
billion pounds the company said it managed a year earlier.  Investec’s reported earnings have shrunk as the rand
declined against the pound.  South Africa ’s currency has lost 11
percent against sterling this year, dragged down by a slowing
economy and slump in mining output following labor unrest.
Investec, which was founded in Johannesburg in 1974, listed its
shares in  London  in 2002.  “The volatile global economic environment and some
unresolved macro risks remain a significant feature,” Investec
said today.  The company’s dividend was unchanged at 8 pence a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  