-- Israel Wages Twitter War With Hamas Over #Gaza Attacks
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-11-15T16:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/israel-wages-twitter-war-with-hamas-over-gaza-attacks.html
The Israeli Defense Forces took to
its Twitter account yesterday to announce “a widespread
campaign on terror sites & operatives in the Gaza Strip” even
as its jets began attacking.  Within minutes, Hamas, the group that controls Gaza,
announced through its English-language account the assassination
of its “top leader Ahmed Jabari” by “Israeli drones.” Hamas
is considered a terrorist organization by the U.S. and Israel.  Social networking sites such as those operated by Twitter
Inc. and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  have been used to energize political
campaigns, promote movies, raise awareness and, in the Middle
East, galvanize the popular revolutions of the Arab Spring. Now,
Israel and Hamas have used them to exchange threats and report
attacks in real-time to followers worldwide.  The IDF’s Twitter account, one of several from the Israeli
government commenting on the operation, promoted a blog with
updates, “photos & videos all in one place.”  Within minutes
of the strike on Jabari yesterday, the IDF spokesman’s office
posted video of his car exploding on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube and
it was circulating on Twitter.  At the start of day two of the conflict, the IDF posted,
“Good morning to our friends in #America. While you were
sleeping, 3 Israelis were killed when a rocket hit their
house.” On its YouTube  channel , the IDF posted a video showing
warning leaflets being dropped over civilian areas in Gaza and
another on “what gives  Israel  the right to defend itself.”  #Gaza Hashtag  As Israeli jets yesterday bombarded suspected missile
facilities and other buildings in Gaza, the service run by San
Francisco-based Twitter lit up with 140-character chronicles of
the assault and the reaction. Most of the messages known as
tweets were identified with #Gaza, a “hashtag” with a pound
sign before a key word that lets those on Twitter search for
information.  The two sides fought for public sympathy through the names
they gave the operation. While Israeli tweeters called it
#PillarOfDefense, Palestinians used #GazaUnderAttack.  The IDF’s message-writers said the operation’s main goals
were to protect Israeli civilians and “cripple the terrorist
infrastructure in the Gaza strip.” Hamas tweeted today,
“#Israel’s military kills #Palestinian children in cold blood
in #Gaza.”  The IDF tweeted about the number of rockets (768) that
Gazans had fired into Israel since the beginning of 2012 and
wrote of real-time success in damaging Hamas’s “long-range
missile capabilities” and underground weapons storage. The
Israelis warned Hamas that “if necessary, the IDF is ready to
initiate a ground operation in Gaza.”  Israeli Warning  Hamas retaliated with tweets about hitting “Isnad Sofa
base with 6 mortars in response on assassination of its leader
#AhmedJabari.”  Journalists weighed in too. Jon Donnison, the West Bank and
Gaza correspondent for the British Broadcasting Corp., reported
yesterday the “sound of gunfire across #Gaza. News of Ahmed
Habari’s killing being broadcast from mosques. Fear here is
another war.” A colleague’s baby was later killed in a strike
and he tweeted about that as well.  As airstrikes intensified yesterday, an IDF spokesman
tweeted that “we recommend that no Hamas operatives, whether
low level or senior leaders, show their faces aboveground in the
days ahead.”  Hamas’s @AlqassamBrigades account quickly retorted,
“@idfspokesperson Our blessed hands will reach your leaders and
soldiers wherever they are (You Opened Hell Gates on
Yourselves.”  Virtual World  In the democratic virtual world of Twitter, anyone can
comment on a tweet, and many did. Someone identifying himself as
Doug Pologe asked “in what way have your ‘blessed hands’ ever
benefited the world?”  A man who said he was Joe Bua and whose profile indicated
he is from San Diego,  California , tweeted to spokesmen for both
sides: “Twitter is not a diplomacy tool. Stop killing each
other. I support neither of you.”  People living inside Gaza and in the areas of southern
Israel that border the Palestinian territory documented the
operation in intense bursts.  Someone identifying himself as Moshe Kwiat tweeted to his
followers “alarms going off in Be’er Sheva and Sderot,”
southern cities often hit by rocket fire. He had adopted the
hashtag, #StopTheRockets.  Civilian Voices  A user calling herself Dima-Gaza from inside “Occupied
Palestine-Gaza” sent out an early message that said
“explosions are everywhere, non-stop explosions and Israeli
warplanes are hovering over Gaza.”  Later, Dima-Gaza tweeted, “PLEASE don’t cut the
electricity,” and later still, “HUGE explosions #WTF.”  Some writers expressed disgust at the way the operation was
playing out in the virtual world.  Someone who said he was Joseph Dana and identified himself
as a writer based in the Eastern Mediterranean, wrote,“Good
lord. It’s official, the Israeli army spokesperson has turned
Gaza operation name into a hashtag #PillarOfDefense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  