-- Troop Call-Up Sends Blue Square Lower: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-11-15T23:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/israel-bonds-stocks-plunge-as-ground-operation-considered-1-.html
Israeli stocks traded in New York
sank to a four-month low, led by  Alon Holdings Blue Square-
Israel Ltd. (BSI) , as the government said it’s ready to boost military
operations after  Tel Aviv  was targeted by Gaza militants.  The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the most traded
Israeli companies in New York retreated 0.3 percent to 81.96,
the lowest since July 25. Blue Square, the nation’s second-
largest supermarket chain, fell the most in 14 months, while
 SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA)  declined to the lowest since June.
The cost of protecting Israeli bonds against default surged to
the highest level in two months and the shekel weakened for a
second day.  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  signaled that  Israel  is
ready to escalate its military operations against Gaza after at
least one long-range missile was fired at Tel Aviv by
Palestinian militants. The attacks marked the first time since
the 1991  Gulf War  that sirens have been activated in the most
populated part of the country, according to non-profit
organization The Israel Project. The military is calling up
30,000 reservists, army spokesman Yoav Mordechai said.  “Local retail companies might see more of an impact, and
this is where investors will be more cautious,” Daniel Rapoport, the head of equity and derivatives at Bank Leumi Le-
Israel Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said by phone. “Troops going into Gaza
would prolong the events and would disturb the financial and
economic life of the country.”  Israel’s  benchmark TA-25 Index  fell 0.6 percent to 1,181.76
in Tel Aviv prior to the rocket fire yesterday, capping a 2.5
percent slump this week, the biggest since June. The yield on
Mimshal Shiklit benchmark 10-year bonds rose nine basis points,
or 0.09 percentage point, to 4.01 percent in the last five days.  Pillar of Defense  Israel began a military operation termed Pillar of Defense
on Nov. 14 against militants in the  Gaza Strip . At least 13
Palestinians have been killed in Israeli military strikes,
including the leader of the Hamas military wing, and three
Israelis died in one of 200 rocket attacks launched from Gaza in
the past 24 hours.  The rocket fired at the Tel Aviv area of Gush Dan, home to
about 1.3 million people, probably fell in the sea, police
spokesman Mickey Rosenfeld said, noting there was no damage and
no injuries reported.  The missile attack “and the volume of fire in general
toward Israel is an escalation and there will be a price to
pay,” Barak said on Channel 2 television yesterday.  In December 2008, Israeli tanks and soldiers entered Gaza
and more than 1,100 Palestinians and 12 Israelis were killed in
the subsequent fighting. The benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  gained 6.9
percent in the 22-day operation.  ‘Emotional Reaction’  “The initial sell-off was an emotional reaction to rockets
being fired,” Steven Schoenfeld, founder of  Bluestar Global
Investors LLC , a financial research company focused on Israel
and the Middle East, said yesterday by phone from  San Francisco .
“Yet overall, markets have reacted with the knowledge that
Israel’s companies and its economy have gone through this before
and that it’s very unlikely to have anything but a very short-
term impact.”  Israel’s five-year credit-default swaps rose 6.8 basis
points to 158.5 basis points, the highest level since Sept. 6,
London prices compiled by Bloomberg show. The securities traded
11 basis points above those for  Turkey , which were little
changed. That reverses an eight-year trend, when Israeli swaps
cost an average of 130 basis points less.  ‘Escalation’  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Israel is rated A by Fitch, the sixth-highest investment
grade, while Turkey was lifted to the lowest investment grade
level of BBB- on Nov. 5.  The shekel dropped 0.2 percent to 3.9764 per dollar, making
it the worst performer among 10 emerging-market currencies in
 Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa  tracked by Bloomberg.  “There obviously has been a change in the dynamic to the
fighting, so over the weekend, the fighting either winds down or
there could be an escalation,” Zach Herzog, the head of
international sales at Psagot Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv,
said by phone. The Israeli Exchange is closed today and tomorrow
for the weekend.  Blue Square, based in Rosh Ha’Ayin, tumbled 8 percent to
$2.20, the lowest since September 2011. The supermarket chain’s
Tel Aviv shares dropped for a sixth day, losing 2.6 percent to
8.97 shekels, or the equivalent of $2.26.  SodaStream, Tower  SodaStream, the maker of soda machines, sank 3 percent to
$34.08, a five-month low.  Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (TSEM) , the Israeli maker of customized
chips, climbed the most in two weeks, adding 2.2 percent to
$7.46. The shares in Tel Aviv slid 0.4 percent to 29.47 shekels,
or $7.41.  Chief Executive Officer Russell Ellwanger said in an
interview yesterday that the company will see a “definite”
rise in revenue next year as it starts production of recent
design orders.  Tower yesterday reported a 12 percent drop in  third quarter 
revenue to $154.6 million and a loss of $18 million compared
with a profit of $1.84 million in the same quarter a year
earlier. The mean estimate of three analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for sales of $157 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  