-- Italian Economy Shrinks 0.2% as Recession Enters Second Year
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-11-15T10:14:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/italy-gdp-falls-for-fifth-quarter-as-slump-enters-second-year.html
Italy ’s economy  shrank  less than
economists forecast in the quarter through September as the
country’s fourth recession since 2001 entered its second year.  Gross domestic product  declined 0.2 percent from the second
quarter, when it decreased a revised 0.7 percent, the National
Statistics Institute Istat said in a preliminary report today.
The decline was less than the 0.5 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 21 economists. It was the fifth quarter
of contraction. From a year earlier, output shrank 2.4 percent.  With export gains failing to offset the effect of weak
domestic demand, the euro region’s third-biggest economy will
contract 2.3 percent this year and won’t start recovering until
the second half of 2013, Istat said Nov. 5. Industrial output
will keep declining in the final three months of this year,
employers lobby Confindustria forecast Oct. 30.  The Italian contraction contrasted with signs of recovery
in Germany and  France , the euro-region’s two biggest economies.
German GDP climbed 0.2 percent in the third quarter, more than
the 0.1 percent forecast, and France’s economy unexpectedly
expanded by 0.2 percent, separate reports showed today.  Italy entered into recession in the second half of 2011 as
the global slowdown aggravated the effects of Prime Minister
 Mario Monti ’s austerity measures aimed at taming a  public debt 
of 2 trillion euros ($2.55 trillion), more than 120 percent of
GDP. The five quarterly contractions now match the length of the
country’s previous economic slump that ended in the third
quarter of 2009.  Budget Cutting  “The ongoing fiscal consolidation process continues to
weigh on domestic demand,” Annalisa Piazza, a strategist at
Newedge Group in  London , wrote in an e-mail to clients. “A
rebound in export-led activity is very unlikely near term.”  Manufacturing in Italy remained depressed and Italian
business confidence unexpectedly fell in October amid pessimism
among executives on the outlook for the nation’s growth.  Car sales in Italy declined 12 percent in October, the
Transport Ministry said on Nov. 2. Earlier this month,  Fiat SpA (F) 
Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said the problems at
Italy’s biggest manufacturer are more severe than many of its
rivals because Fiat’s home market accounts for half its euro-
region sales. Fiat’s car sales in Italy are on pace to plunge to
the lowest level in more than three decades this year.  Italy is living “very difficult times” because of both
the economic and financial crises,  Bank of Italy  Governor
Ignazio Visco said in a  speech  in  Rome  yesterday. The way out of
recession “won’t be easy nor painless,” he added.  Istat originally reported a contraction of 0.8 percent in
the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  