-- Lithuanian Coalition Boosts Majority as Polish Party Joins Up
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2012-11-15T17:05:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/lithuanian-coalition-boosts-majority-as-polish-party-joins-up.html
A Polish minority party joined three
other Lithuanian parties seeking the president’s approval to
form a government, giving the proposed coalition a three-fifths
majority in parliament.  Lithuanian Polish Election Action today signed a coalition
pact that the  Social Democrats , the Labor Party and Order &
Justice agreed on last week, Social Democrat spokeswoman Evelina
Butkute said by phone from Vilnius, the capital.  The addition boosts the coalition’s weight in the 141-
member parliament to 85 votes from 77, giving it enough to
override some presidential vetoes, call early elections and
impeach top officials. President Dalia Grybauskaite has sought
to exclude Labor from the government after the Oct. 28 ballot
because the party is accused of fraud and electoral violations.  “The bigger the majority, the easier it is to make and
implement decisions,” Butkute said. The Polish party may
control one ministry, probably the Energy Ministry, she said.  Grybauskaite won’t attend Parliament’s first session
tomorrow, as is traditional, and will send written greetings
instead, her office said today. The president has 15 days from
when the legislature first convenes to name a prime minister,
who then needs parliament’s backing to form a cabinet.  Social Democrat leader Algirdas Butkevicius, the
coalition’s candidate to lead a government, has said that if the
president refuses to accept the proposed coalition, the
alternatives would be a minority government or new elections.  Butkevicius has repeatedly rejected proposals by outgoing
Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius, head of the Homeland Union-
Christan Democrats who placed second in the election, to form a
broad majority coalition without the  Labor Party .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  