-- Jets Owner Johnson Says 3-6 Season Has Been Miserable Experience
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-16T05:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/jets-owner-johnson-says-3-6-season-has-been-miserable-experience.html
New York Jets owner  Woody Johnson 
said the team’s 2012 season has been a “miserable experience”
and refused to say whether changes on the field or in the front
office would follow.  “I know the fans aren’t happy,” Johnson told reporters
yesterday after practice in Florham Park, New Jersey. “We’re
not happy. I didn’t sign up for a 3-6 season. We haven’t had one
of these in a while.”  Johnson wouldn’t discuss the job security of coach  Rex Ryan 
or General Manager Mike Tannenbaum beyond this season, saying he
never makes “any midseason statements” about personnel issues.
He supported  Mark Sanchez , who has the third-worst quarterback
rating of any starter in the  National Football League  this year.  “He is our franchise quarterback,” Johnson said. “That’s
what he is.”  Unidentified Jets players were quoted as criticizing backup
quarterback  Tim Tebow  in a New York Daily News story two days
ago. Ryan labeled the comments “cowardly” and said he had
addressed the matter with the team.  “Anybody that’s anonymous has no credibility,” Johnson
said. He added that it was the decision of the Jets’ coaches and
front office to trade for Tebow.  Johnson also said he wanted to put to rest any notion that
he’s more concerned about making moves to sell personal seat
licenses than winning games.  “My job 1, 2 and 3 is to win games, that’s why I got into
football to begin with,” Johnson said. “It’s not to sell PSLs
or anything else. My job is to win games. That’s what my passion
is. That’s what I want to do.”  Johnson said he remains optimistic even though the Jets are
tied for last place in the American Football Conference’s East
Division heading into this week’s game in St. Louis against the
Rams.  Since the NFL’s current playoff format was instituted in
1990, only three teams have recovered from 3-6 starts to make
the postseason, most recently the 1996  Jacksonville Jaguars . The
Jaguars finished 9-7 that season and reached the AFC
Championship game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  