-- Jordan to Use ‘Iron Fist’ Against Fuel Rioters, General Says
-- B y   M o h a m m a d   T a y s e e r   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-11-15T17:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/jordan-to-use-iron-fist-against-fuel-rioters-general-says.html
Jordan will “strike with an iron
fist” rioters who use illegal means to express their anger over
recent fuel-subsidy cuts, according to General Hussein Majali,
director of the Public Security Department.  At least 17 civilians and 54 policemen have been injured,
seven of them critically, in riots that followed the
government’s Nov. 13 decision to cut subsidies on cooking gas
and vehicle fuels. A Jordanian protester was killed as he joined
an armed mob storming a police station in the northern city of
Irbid, state-run Petra news agency reported earlier.  Majali said 158 protesters have been arrested nationwide,
including two Syrians. Three banks in the northwest province of
Balqa were robbed and burned, with 75,000 dinars ($106,000)
stolen from one of them, he said.  Jordan imports almost all its fuel and relies on foreign
aid and investment to cover deficits. Grants from abroad plunged
by 98 percent to 25.8 million dinars in the first nine months of
2012 in the absence of donations from Arab states, the
government said this month. The state is so short of money that
it can’t pay for the cargoes carried by two fuel ships docked in
the port of Aqaba, Prime Minister Abdullah Ensour said on Nov.
13.  Majali said that while freedom of expression is guaranteed,
it should be peaceful. He said the government won’t allow anyone
to “harm public or private facilities or citizens.”  Shops Smashed  As he spoke, hundreds of rioters smashed shops in
downtown Amman less than 400 meters away, forcing nearby
stores to close. During the past two days, demonstrators have
attacked police stations with automatic weapons, closed roads
with burning tires, looted and torched private and government
institutions.  Jordan can control the situation and doesn’t see any reason
at this stage to impose martial law, said Majali. “If the
demonstrations are not in line with the constitution, we will
use force to stop them,” he said.  The Muslim Brotherhood, which makes up the bulk of the
opposition, has called a protest rally tomorrow. Hammam Saeed,
the brotherhood chief, urged King Abdullah II to intervene and
restore subsidies, saying Jordanians cannot shoulder the
increased burden, according to a statement on the group’s
website.  It is impossible for the government to reverse the measure,
Ensour told Al Arabiya Television last night. It is designed to
reduce an estimated 3.5 billion-dinar budget gap.  A similar government subsidy-cut plan two months ago was
suspended by King Abdullah after public protests.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammad Tayseer in Amman at 
 mtayseer@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  