-- Keller Shares Surge on U.S. Construction Growth: London Mover
-- B y   T o m   M e t c a l f
-- 2012-11-15T17:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/keller-shares-surge-on-u-s-construction-growth-london-mover.html
Keller Group Plc (KLR) , the U.K. company
that laid foundations for the CityCenter resort in  Las Vegas ,
rose the most in more than a year after saying revenue growth in
North America will beat the construction market as a whole.  The ground-engineering company’s  shares  surged 9.9 percent
to 623 pence, the biggest gain since October 2011. It was the
largest increase among the 11 companies on the FTSE All-Share
Construction & Materials Index. About 3.7 million Keller shares
traded, more than 27 times the three-month daily average.  “Key to the investment case has been the recovery
potential in the U.S. and this is indeed now playing out,”
Andrew Gibb, an analyst at Investec Securities with a  buy
recommendation  on the stock, said in a note. “Momentum is with
this stock,” Gibb said as he increased his share-price
prediction to 710 pence from 500 pence.  Keller shares have more than doubled this year as the U.S.
 construction market  recovers from years of declining spending.
The London-based company, which gets about 40 percent of revenue
from  North America , said today it’s also performing well in  Asia 
and that business is holding up in Europe and  Australia  although
trading conditions remain challenging.  The company “performed strongly in the four months to the
end of October, with results exceeding the board’s
expectations,” Keller said in a statement.  Power Lines  There is “gradual improvement” in North America and the
construction firm is benefitting from more work installing
transmission lines, it said. Full-year revenue will probably
rise almost 13 percent to 1.3 billion pounds ($2.06 billion),
and profit before taxes will be “significantly above the
current range of market expectations,” Keller said.  Gibb raised his earnings forecasts by 20 percent for this
year and 8.5 percent for 2013.  “While concerns will resonate with the ongoing weakness in
 Europe  and risks to the Australian resource sector, we believe
Keller is well-placed,” Gibb said. “The balance sheet remains
strong, the business is leaner and internal risk controls are
stronger.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Metcalf in London at 
 tmetcalf7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at   drisser@bloomberg.net  