-- Kirin Follows Heineken With $2.2 Billion Bid; Shares Tumble
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2012-11-16T07:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/kirin-follows-heineken-with-2-2-billion-emerging-market-bid.html
Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) , Japan’s largest
drinks maker, may pay S$2.7 billion ($2.2 billion) to expand in
Southeast Asia, following brewers  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  and
 Heineken NV (HEIA)  as they buy into emerging-market growth.  Kirin is seeking to acquire Fraser & Neave Ltd.’s food and
beverages unit as part of a proposed takeover of the Singapore-
based company by a group led by  Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd. (OUE) 
The OUE group offered S$13.1 billion for F&N yesterday, topping
a bid from Thai billionaire  Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi , and said
Kirin will buy the food and beverage unit.  Shares of Kirin fell the most in a month today on concern
whether the investment will pay off. The Tokyo-based company,
which generates a higher percentage of sales from overseas than
any other Japanese drinks maker with revenue exceeding $1
billion, is seeking further expansion abroad as demand weakens
at home and growth at its Australian unit stutters.  “Investors are now worried,”  Naoki Fujiwara , chief  fund
manager  at Shinkin Asset Management Co. in Tokyo, said by
telephone today. “They’re concerned whether it will turn out to
be expensive shopping without rewards.”  Kirin, which owns a 14.8 percent stake in F&N, will tender
its shares to OUE and won’t accept any competing proposal, OUE
said. Kirin is “aware of the announcement,” Kan Yamamoto, a
spokesman, said by telephone. He declined to comment further.  Kirin fell 2.2 percent to 969 yen in Tokyo trading. The
drinks maker’s shares have lost 32 percent in the past three
years, compared with a 13 percent decline for the broader Topix
index.  Sales Projection  The company cut its 2015 sales forecast in October, citing
weakening demand in Japan as a reason. Industrywide beer sales
in Japan fell 3.7 percent to 442 million cases last year, the
lowest level since records began in 1992.  Heineken got shareholder approval in September to buy F&N’s
stake in its brewing joint venture,  Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB) ,
giving it full control over sales and distribution of its brands
and F&N’s Tiger beer brand in Southeast Asia. Heineken had been
spurred to increase its original offer for APB after Charoen
purchased shares in F&N and APB.  Kirin had been considering a bid for the F&N food and drink
unit in July, three people with knowledge of the situation said
at the time, after Heineken’s initial bid for APB.  The Japanese company also has a 48 percent stake in the
Philippines’  San Miguel Brewery Inc. (SMB)  In November last year,
Kirin agreed to buy out shareholders in Brazil’s Schincariol
Participacoes e Representacoes to diversify its beer sales
footprint. The deal at the time valued the brewer at about $3.6
billion, excluding debt.  Leuven, Belgium-based AB InBev, the world’s biggest brewer,
agreed to buy control of Mexico’s Grupo Modelo SAB for $20.2
billion this year.  F&N has been in the food and beverage business since 1883,
producing soft drinks, milk drinks, ice cream and isotonic
drinks under F&N Foods Pte. and Malaysia’s  Fraser & Neave
Holdings Bhd. (FNH) , according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  