-- Kiwi Bears Capitulate as Wheeler Surrenders to Flows: Currencies
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-11-15T11:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/kiwi-bears-capitulate-as-wheeler-surrenders-to-flows-currencies.html
New Zealand ’s dollar is crushing
bears as strategists boost their forecasts and the nation’s
new central-bank chief says there’s little he can do to stem
the gains.  The so-called kiwi has appreciated 3.9 percent in 2012, the
most among 10 developed-market currencies measured by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. After cutting year-end estimates
by an average of 6 percent in the second quarter, analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg have since raised them by 5.1 percent.  Investors are piling into the currency as the economy grows
at twice the average rate for the Group of 10 nations, housing
rebounds and demand rises for dairy products, which make up
about 25 percent of exports.  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand
Governor Graeme Wheeler said on Nov. 7 that lower  interest
rates , the main tool for discouraging speculators, are unlikely
to weaken the currency.  “It’s one of the few countries that offer the best balance
between safety and yields,” said Hideya Kubo, a senior  money
manager  in  Tokyo  at DIAM Co., which oversees the equivalent of
$129 billion.  Kubo had 9.7 percent of his 392 billion-yen ($4.83 billion)
fund in New Zealand dollar-denominated assets, according to a
Nov. 5 report on the company’s website.  The kiwi, nicknamed for the image of the flightless bird on
its one dollar coin, has risen 4.4 percent this year against the
U.S. currency. It rose 0.2 percent to 81.16 U.S. cents as of
6:12 a.m.  New York  time, up from this year’s low of 74.57 U.S.
cents reached on May 23 and June 1. The currency advanced to
88.43 cents on Aug. 1, 2011, a record since becoming freely
traded in March 1985.  Rising Currency  Analysts, who cut their year-end estimate for the kiwi to
as low as 78 cents as of June 28, now see it rising to 82 cents.
The increase in the forecast is second only to the 6.3 percent
jump for the Swedish krona, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s hard at this point to see any factor that would lead
to a major depreciation in the exchange rate in the short
term,” Wheeler told parliament’s finance select committee on
Nov. 7. “There’s no easy solution that says cut interest
rates” 25 basis points and “the  exchange rate  will go down,”
he said.  Wheeler, a 61-year-old former World Bank official who took
over from Alan Bollard in September, kept the central bank’s
target interest rate unchanged at 2.5 percent in his first
policy meeting on Oct. 25, the highest among the G-10 currencies
after the 3.25 percent in  Australia . Those in the U.S. and  Japan 
are about zero.  Relative Rates  Bollard kept the  benchmark rate  unchanged since March last
year to allow the economy to recover after the nation’s
deadliest earthquake in 80 years. The February 2011 temblor
struck Christchurch, New Zealand’s third-largest city, and the
surrounding Canterbury province, killing 185 people.  The yield on New Zealand’s 10-year note closed today at
3.41 percent, or 180 basis points more than similar-maturity
 U.S. Treasuries . It offered a premium of 267 basis points over
its Japanese equivalent.  Higher relative yields have attracted international
investors, who buy the local dollar to purchase the bonds.
Foreigners  owned  62.4 percent of New Zealand’s government debt
as of Oct. 31, up from 60.6 in October 2010, central bank data
showed yesterday.  The bonds have “supported the huge amount of inflow into
the market,” said David Croy, the Wellington-based head of
markets research for New Zealand at ANZ National Bank Ltd. The
lender sees the currency strengthening to 85 U.S. cents by mid-
2013, the highest forecast along with BNP Paribas among
strategists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Gains Tempered  Government bonds  with a maturity of more than a year have
returned 12 percent the past 12 months in U.S. dollar terms,
according to data compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. They are the best
performers among developed markets that have a AAA rating from
at least one of the three main credit-assessment firms.  While the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg is for New Zealand’s gross domestic product to expand
2.55 percent this year and 2.95 percent in 2013, concern is
rising that a stronger currency will temper those gains.  The nation’s terms of trade index, which measures the price
of exports relative to imports, dropped 2.6 percent in the three
months ended June 30, the most since June 2009,  Statistics New
Zealand  said Sept. 3.  ‘Gives Incentive’  “The collapse of the terms of trade means that New Zealand
pays more when it trades more, so a stronger currency stifles
the economy,” said Akira Takei, head of the international
fixed-income department in Tokyo at Mizuho Asset Management Co.,
which oversees the equivalent of $42 billion. “It gives
incentive to the nation to weaken the currency.”  Options prices are indicating an 81 percent chance the kiwi
will weaken 2 percent by May. The median forecast of strategists
is for it to depreciate to 80 U.S. cents by December 2013.  Data from the statistics office show overseas sales of milk
powder, butter and cheese comprised one quarter of New Zealand’s
exports in the 12 months through September. The 31 percent
rebound in milk-powder prices since mid-July has helped
strengthen the local dollar. Contracts for January delivery cost
$3,335 a metric ton, according to the most recent figures from
Auckland-based Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.  Top Producers  New Zealand is among the top five producers of whole-milk
powder and will contribute almost 25 percent of global supply in
the 12 months through May, according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture .  Asia  is expected to account for 52 percent of
global consumption this year, the most in the department’s data
dating back to the 1980s.  “As consumption among the Asian middle class transforms
from fulfilling their needs to having enough wealth to satisfy
their wants, there will be greater demand for higher-value
products,” said  Sean Keane , an analyst in Auckland at financial
advisory group Triple T Consulting and the former head of Asia-
Pacific rates trading at Credit Suisse Group AG. “New Zealand
can position itself as a provider of high-quality products.”  That would help the nation to reduce its trade imbalance
and borrow less money offshore, which should further bolster the
local currency, Keane said.  While the central bank has cited the currency’s strength as
a potential drag on the economy, Wheeler’s next policy change
may be to raise borrowing costs. The median estimate of 18
economists surveyed by Bloomberg is for the benchmark rate to
increase a half percentage point to 3 percent in 2013, to the
highest alongside Australia’s among advanced economies.  House Prices  House prices  rose at the fastest pace in five months in
October, the Real Estate Institute of New Zealand said last
week. Costs are rising as new listings “struggle to keep pace
with buyer demand,” REINZ Chief Executive Officer Helen
O’Sullivan said in a statement. The time needed to sell a house
dropped to 32 days from 33 days in September and 35 days in
October last year.  “We have to remember that property prices across New
Zealand are accelerating,” said David Forrester, senior vice
president for G-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Macquarie Bank
Ltd., which sees the kiwi strengthening to 83 U.S. cents by
year-end. “That may prevent RBNZ Governor Wheeler from cutting
rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  