-- KKR Looks at London Housing Deals in Property Expansion
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-11-15T23:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/kkr-looks-at-london-housing-deals-in-property-expansion.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) ’s real estate unit, which
has made five U.S. deals since forming last year, plans to
invest in  Europe  as it explores transactions including housing
developments in  London , the head of the division said.  “We’re bidding on a couple things right now,” Ralph Rosenberg, who joined KKR in March 2011 as its first head of
real estate, said of London deals. “We’re looking at doing
ground-up construction of rental and for-sale apartments.”  KKR has invested about $350 million of equity in property
deals since Rosenberg’s arrival as part of a push by private-
equity firms to expand in the business. KKR and TPG Capital
created real estate units last year to diversify beyond
corporate takeovers and exploit investor appetite for higher-
yielding assets at a time of record-low  interest rates  on
alternative investments such as  government bonds .  KKR yesterday announced its most recent deal, a residential
development in Williston, North Dakota, for workers in the
state’s booming oil business. The company plans to invest as
much as $150 million with two partners to develop apartments,
houses, a park and sports field in the town.  The pace of KKR’s real estate investments is heightening
the prospect the 36-year-old firm, led by founders  Henry Kravis 
and  George Roberts , might raise outside capital for its property
unit next year. KKR is working on deals that “could easily
consume another $200 million or $300 million of equity in the
next quarter,” Rosenberg said in an interview.  London, Asia  The real estate unit has eight employees in  New York  and
three in London who focus solely on acquisitions, Rosenberg
said. The firm has three people in Beijing who spend substantial
time on real estate and two in Mumbai. KKR also recently opened
an office in Sao Paulo.  KKR has been investing in real estate mainly from its own
cash and money from its KKR Financial Holdings LLC vehicle. In
some cases it has used capital from its private equity funds.  In addition to the five U.S. deals, the real estate unit
has made one in Europe. Kristi Huller, a KKR spokeswoman,
declined to comment on the European transaction.  In London, the real estate unit is looking at financing
development of rental apartments and condominiums, Rosenberg
said. The company is seeking to meet demand for housing from
both U.K. residents and international renters and homebuyers, he
said.  “The market is a lot deeper than just the local market,
given the interest from wealthy individuals in the  Far East ,
 Middle East  and Europe,” he said.  London Rents  The average home rent in greater London rose more than 6
percent in October from a year earlier to 1,240 pounds ($1,964),
according to an index compiled by HomeLet. That was up 16
percent from the same month in 2010 and 32 percent from October
2009, when rents averaged 940 pounds per month.  “Average rental prices in greater London appear to be far
more buoyant than the rest of the U.K.,” Ian Fraser, managing
director of London-based HomeLet, said in a Nov. 13 report.
“The continued increase in achieved rental values highlights
the growing pressures on the supply and demand of rental stock
in the capital.”  Telford Homes Plc (TEF) , a London residential property developer,
said last month that it has had strong demand from both overseas
and U.K. buyers in the the city. It expects “significant profit
growth” for the first six months of the fiscal year, Chief
Executive Jon Di-Stefano said in an Oct. 22 statement.  “The strength of London as a global city, its
international appeal, transport connections and a shortage of
new homes make the group’s area of operation particularly
attractive, especially on the back of a very successful  Olympic
Games ,” the company said.  North Dakota  KKR’s investment in North Dakota plays into its strategy of
making property deals tied to industries it is familiar with.
The company is an active investor in energy-related fields,
betting on new drilling techniques used to extract oil and
natural gas from rock formations. The methods include high-
pressure injections of chemically treated water to draw oil and
gas from shale, a process known as hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, that has drawn criticism from environmentalists.  KKR last year led a group to buy Tulsa, Oklahoma-based
Samson Investment Co. for $7.2 billion to capitalize on
increased production of shale-based oil and gas. KKR made a
fourfold return on its first shale-gas investment, East
Resources Inc., when the Warrendale, Pennsylvania-based company
was sold to Royal Dutch Shell Plc in 2010.  Energy Deals  Energy, like real estate, is subject to boom and bust
cycles. KKR’s investment in the largest leveraged buyout in
history, the record $43.2 billion purchase of then-TXU Corp. in
2007, has been eroded by a decline in natural gas prices, which
reduced how much unregulated electricity producers could charge.
Now called Energy Future Holdings Corp., the company might be
headed toward bankruptcy or reorganization, investors have said.  KKR’s investments under Rosenberg include a joint venture
with Houston-based Hines to develop a master-planned  business
park  in the  Texas  city comprising storage and distribution
facilities. It also joined with two other companies to buy the
management business of Sunrise Senior Living Inc. for $130
million as part of Health Care REIT Inc.’s acquisition of the
senior-housing owner.  Yorktown Center  In April, KKR paid $196 million for Yorktown Center, a
shopping mall in the Chicago suburb of Lombard,  Illinois . The
seller was a local family that had developed it and managed it
for about 40 years until it ran into cash constraints in 2007.  “It was perceived in the marketplace, rightfully so, as a
B-quality mall,” Rosenberg said. KKR signed a permanent lease
with Toys “R” Us Inc., a company of which it’s a part owner,
and plans to spend about $30 million to renovate the food court
and facade over the next two years.  KKR bought Yorktown Center at an investment yield of 7.5
percent, Rosenberg said. The yield, or capitalization rate, is
the mall’s net operating income divided by purchase price.  “We’re going to take that 7.5 percent yield to a 9.5
percent yield,” Rosenberg said. “If we can achieve that
operational strategy, owning that asset at a 9.5 percent yield
on our basis is going to be pretty attractive.”  While KKR lacked a dedicated real estate unit before last
year, the firm has made several property investments over the
past two decades. In 1992 it backed the formation of KSL
Recreation Corp., an investment vehicle led by former executives
of ski-resorts operator Vail Associates Inc. KSL investments
included the La Quinta Resort & Club and PGA West golf course
near Palm Springs,  California . KKR sold its interest in KSL in
2004 and shed KSL assets over time, including a stake in San
Diego’s Hotel del Coronado last year.  Motel 6  KKR also sold the Motel 6 budget hotel chain, now owned by
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , to France’s Accor SA in 1990 and invested
in Red Lion Hotels Corp., which went public in 1998.  In expanding in real estate, KKR and TPG lag behind
Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm and manager
of about $54 billion of equity in property assets. The New York-
based company this year raised a $13.3 billion real estate fund,
a record for the industry.  Besides Blackstone, the biggest real estate funds until the
2008 credit crisis were inside Wall Street investment banks. The
financial crisis ended or diminished the property fund units of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Morgan Stanley as they invested record funds with borrowed money
when property prices were at all-time highs.  Institutional Money  “A lot of the incumbent players in the commercial real
estate space who ran money for institutional investors made
mistakes that damaged their credibility with their institutional
partners,” Rosenberg said. “Those institutional partners have
a natural need to have real estate exposure and ultimately they
need to figure out how they’re going to get that exposure.”  Rosenberg helped run Goldman Sachs’s Whitehall real estate
unit until January 2004, when he moved to another Goldman
division to co-manage a business that invested in corporate and
asset-backed debt and equity, including property. He left the
investment bank in 2006 to form a hedge fund called R6 Capital
Management. At the beginning of 2008, Rosenberg and his R6 team
joined Eton Park Capital Management, a hedge fund started by
former Goldman Sachs partner Eric Mindich.  Management Fees  While interest in real estate is strong, some institutions
are demanding fee reductions and more say in deals. Since the
1980s, the standard structure for private equity funds -- which
KKR helped pioneer -- was a management fee of about 2 percent of
the capital raised and 20 percent of any investment profits for
the manager. As fund sizes grew into the billions, fees swelled
to hundreds of millions of dollars, drawing protests from
investors, who said fund managers weren’t incentivized to search
for the most profitable deals since they were earning so much
from fees alone.  In October,  New Jersey ’s state pension fund agreed to
management fees of 0.95 percent on invested capital as part of a
$350 million pledge to a TPG Real Estate fund in which it will
be the sole outside investor. New Jersey has the ability to
review investments before they’re made, a right not granted
under traditional funds.  TPG has made 10 real estate deals using $2.1 billion of
equity capital, according to a person with knowledge of the
firm’s deals who asked not to be named because the details are
private.  Lisa Baker , a spokeswoman for TPG at Owen Blicksilver
Public Relations Inc., declined to comment.  “Large institutional investors are seeking more
transparency into investment strategies and are asking for
input,” Rosenberg said. “On the extreme, the world is moving
toward the separately managed account model for large
sophisticated investors.”  In November 2011, KKR and  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) 
struck a deal with the Teacher Retirement System of Texas to
manage as much as $3 billion each.  “We can use that partnership to invest in real estate as
well, though we haven’t done it yet,” he said. “You’ll see
more of those types of relationships.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  