-- KKR’s Goal to Expand to Ordinary Investors, Roberts Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-11-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/kkr-s-goal-to-expand-to-ordinary-investors-roberts-says.html
KKR & Co. (KKR)  is seeking to appeal to
individual investors and their advisers searching for yield as
the private-equity firm diversifies beyond wealthy and
institutional funders.  Most of KKR’s money traditionally has come from large
pension funds and investors around the world while individuals
haven’t had access to the company’s alternative investments,
 George Roberts , who runs the New York-based firm with cousin
 Henry Kravis , said yesterday at a conference in Chicago held by
the brokerage firm  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)   “That’s really what our long-term goal is,” Roberts said
to an audience of investment advisers. “To be able to meet the
demands and needs that you have.”  KKR, like larger rival  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , has sought new
ways to make money as buyout funds have decreased in size and
deal-making has subsided after a boom in the prior decade. The
New York-based firm is starting two debt funds for ordinary
investors and making them available through Schwab. Private-
equity firms traditionally have gathered assets from wealthy
families and institutions such as pensions and endowments.  “For people who have a quest for some kind of return on
their capital, you have to look at these alternatives,” Roberts
said.  Individual investors and their advisers should consider
moving more money toward “the spicy credit” such as high-yield
debt and distressed companies, which KKR’s two new funds invest
in, said  Scott Nuttall , the firm’s global head of capital and
asset management. Nuttall and Roberts discussed the fund
industry,  capital markets  and  tax policy  with Charles R. Schwab,
chairman and founder of the San Francisco-based brokerage firm
bearing his name.  Tax Questions  Uncertainty over whether federal tax rates on income,
capital gains and dividends will change is keeping investors
from investing in riskier assets such as stocks, Roberts said.
U.S. stocks fell yesterday amid concern over the budget debate
in Washington, sending the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  to its
lowest level since June.  If Congress doesn’t act by the end of 2012, $607 billion in
automatic spending cuts and tax increases are scheduled to take
effect starting in January. Taxes on ordinary income, capital
gains, dividends and estates will increase, pushing the top tax
rate to 39.6 percent from 35 percent.  Lowering the corporate tax rate and simplifying the
Internal Revenue Code would help the economy, Roberts said. “It
would be good to look at everything in the  tax code ,” to make
it simpler and fairer, he said.  Some lawmakers have pushed to alter the way profits
received by private-equity managers, known as carried interest,
are taxed. Currently, carried interest is considered a capital
gain. Long-term capital gains are taxed at a top rate of 15
percent, lower than levies on ordinary income such as wages.  Investment Cutbacks  KKR, whose 1989 takeover of  RJR Nabisco  catapulted it into
the top ranks of the private-equity industry, is trying to wrap
up capital raising for its North America XI Fund, gathering
about $6.2 billion since 2011 of a targeted $8 billion,
according to the firm’s Oct. 26 quarterly earnings statement.  Investors such as public pension funds and wealthy families
have cut allocations to private equity since the 2008 financial
crisis.  A study released Oct. 18 by the Wharton Global Family
Alliance, a unit of the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton
School, found that so-called single-family offices cut their
average outlay for private equity funds to 9 percent in 2011
from 11 percent two years prior because of declining returns,
lock-up periods and high fees. The firms, which generally manage
the financial affairs of one family with at least $100 million,
shifted capital instead toward direct investments in private
companies and real estate.  New Funds  The two funds that KKR will offer through Schwab invest in
high-yield debt and distressed companies. The  Alternative High
Yield Fund (KHYKX) , which opened to investors this week, has a $2,500
minimum investment and is structured as a mutual fund. The
 Alternative Corporate Opportunities Fund (XKCPX)  is a closed-end fund
with a minimum investment of $25,000 that will start accepting
money in January. That’s compared with the millions of dollars
and 10-year lock-up periods usually required from wealthy
investors in private-equity funds.  KKR has invested in total more than $125 million of the
firm’s cash into the two funds, according to Kristi Huller, a
spokeswoman for the firm.  Roberts and Nuttall spoke at this week’s Impact Conference,
which has at least 4,600 people registered, including more than
1,600 investment advisers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  