-- N.Y. Official Said to Probe Utilities on Storm Response
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-11-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/n-y-official-said-to-probe-utilities-on-storm-response.html
Long Island Power Authority and
 Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED)  are being investigated by  New York 
Attorney General Eric Schneiderman over their preparedness for
 Hurricane Sandy  and response to the storm, a person familiar
with the matter said.  Schneiderman yesterday issued subpoenas to the utilities,
said the person, as thousands of LIPA customers remained without
power two weeks after the storm.  Schneiderman is inquiring whether LIPA violated a state law
requiring it to assure its flow of electricity and the accuracy
of statements to bondholders about its ability to function under
severe conditions, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the matter wasn’t public.  The attorney general is investigating whether Con Edison,
as an investor-owned utility, violated a public service law
requiring it to supply safe and adequate service, the person
said.  Sandy made landfall on Oct. 29, bringing 85 mile-per-hour
(137 kilometer-an-hour) winds and record-setting floods to  New
Jersey  and New York. The hurricane and a subsequent snowstorm on
Nov. 7 knocked out power to 8.66 million utility customers,
including about 2 million in New York, according to the U.S.
Energy Department.  LIPA, based in Uniondale, New York, had restored
electricity to 99 percent of customers, or about 1.1 million
people, as of Nov. 13. New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  has
convened a commission to investigate  utility companies  for what
he said was their failure to properly prepare for the storm.  “We are cooperating with the attorney general’s request,”
D. Joy Faber, a spokeswoman for New York-based Con Edison, said
in an e-mailed statement. “We look forward to reviewing the
company’s storm preparations and response with the attorney
general and all interested parties.”  Elizabeth Flagler, a LIPA spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
that the company has reviewed Schneiderman’s subpoena and will
“comply with it in all respects.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  