-- N.Z. Housing Surge, Quake Rebuild Limit RBNZ Rate-Cut Scope
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-11-16T01:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/n-z-housing-surge-quake-rebuild-limit-wheeler-s-rate-cut-scope.html
New Zealand’s surging house prices
and earthquake rebuilding may narrow the Reserve Bank’s  scope  to
cut interest rates in an economy where joblessness unexpectedly
soared and retail sales slumped last quarter.  Weak hiring and consumer spending add to signs of a
slowdown in the South Pacific nation as a global slump and the
strongest-performing Group of 10 currency curb manufacturing and
exports. Investors see less than a one-in-three chance Governor
Graeme Wheeler will cut the benchmark rate from a record-low 2.5
percent at his next review Dec. 6, and all 16 economists polled
by Bloomberg predict he’ll stand pat.  As countries from  Australia  to South Korea reduced
borrowing costs to counter sluggish growth abroad, Wheeler faces
crosscurrents at home that may prevent him from doing the same.
He may struggle to meet a 2 percent  inflation  goal should lower
rates exacerbate the fastest house-price gains in five years and
pockets of labor shortages emerge after NZ$30 billion ($24
billion) of damage -- about 17 percent of the nation’s economy -
- in the South Island city of Christchurch.  “There’s definitely a sense of upside inflation out of
Christchurch and that’s what’s holding the RBNZ back,” said
Darren Gibbs, chief New Zealand economist at Deutsche Bank AG in
Auckland and a former central bank analyst. “The market is not
prepared to push the Reserve Bank to ease in the very near
term.”  Rate-Cut Bets  Investors are pricing in a 31 percent chance Wheeler will
cut the key rate to 2.25 percent at his review next month,
according to swaps data compiled by Bloomberg as of 2:15 p.m. in
Wellington. That’s up from a 12 percent probability on Nov. 7,
the day before third-quarter employment figures were released.  The  jobless rate  jumped to a 13-year high of 7.3 percent,
according to the government report. Retail sales unexpectedly
dropped 0.4 percent in the three months through September, the
statistics agency said Nov. 14.  The reports raised the specter of a contraction in third-
quarter gross domestic product, and the question now is “let’s
see if the quarter was a pothole and there’s a bounce-back,”
said Doug Steel, an economist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in
Wellington. “The onus is on forward-looking indicators.”  One such gauge, the Performance of Manufacturing Index
produced by BNZ and Business New Zealand, yesterday showed an
industry expansion in October after three months of contraction.  Reconstruction  Driving growth in coming quarters will be rebuilding in
Christchurch, the nation’s third-largest city, where earthquakes
destroyed homes, roads and pipelines and required the demolition
of more than 1,000 commercial buildings. Some 10,800 quakes have
been recorded since September 2010, including a Feb. 22, 2011,
temblor that killed 185 people.  There are signs of revival in the city and surrounding
Canterbury district. Employment in the region rose 2.9 percent
last quarter from a year earlier, the Nov. 8 report showed. Even
as overall retail spending fell, purchases gained at Canterbury
hardware and building-supply stores.  “From a construction-sector perspective, New Zealand
appears to be becoming a polarized economy with the Christchurch
rebuild offsetting lackluster activities elsewhere,” Dave Taylor, chief executive officer of  Steel & Tube Holdings Ltd. (STU) ,
which sells roofing iron and reinforcing steel, told an annual
meeting in Wellington this week.  Inflation Outlook  The International Monetary Fund predicted last month that
consumer prices in New Zealand will rise 2.4 percent next year
from 2012 compared with annual inflation this year of 1.9
percent. That would be double the price gains the IMF predicted
for advanced economies in Asia.  The Reserve Bank has kept benchmark borrowing costs at 2.5
percent since March last year. Wheeler, a former World Bank
official who took over as governor Sept. 26, extended the pause
at his first review in late October.  Last week, he told a parliamentary committee the currency,
which has gained 4.3 percent this year, is a concern for
exporters and manufacturers who compete with cheaper imports.
Still, he said using lower borrowing costs to target the
exchange rate didn’t work.  The so-called kiwi bought 81.04 U.S. cents at 2:15 p.m. in
Wellington.  The currency is higher than the government is comfortable
with, Finance Minister Bill English said this week. Opponents
including Green Party leader Russel Norman say they want Wheeler
to use so-called macro-prudential tools that target bank balance
sheets to counter housing price gains, giving him scope to cut
interest rates.  Policy Options  The central bank is in talks with the government on ways to
deploy such policies and will only use them to tackle risks to
the financial system, Wheeler said last week. “It’s not
something we would seek to be exercising at the current time,”
he told the parliamentary committee.  Wheeler said similar policies are used overseas, citing
Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer, who last month cut
interest rates while using home loan limits to tackle rising
house prices. Canada shortened the maximum period on mortgages
it insures to 25 years from 30 years.  In New Zealand, home prices rose 6.9 percent in October
from a year earlier, the fastest annual pace since the 12 months
through November 2007, according to Real Estate Institute data
compiled by Bloomberg. In Auckland, home to a third of the
nation’s 4.4 million people, prices have surged 14 percent.  “House prices will keep rising as long as rates stay
low,” said Dominick Stephens, chief New Zealand economist at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  “Prices aren’t going crazy but they are a
consideration against reducing the cash rate further.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  