-- Namibia Seeing $600 Billion Sells Rand Bond: South Africa Credit
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-11-15T08:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/namibia-seeing-600-billion-sells-rand-bond-south-africa-credit.html
Namibia ’s debut rand bond sale, the
first by a foreign government, will probably prompt other
African nations to sell bonds in the South African currency,
lured by an investment industry overseeing $600 billion of
assets.  South Africa’s neighbor sold 850 million rand ($96 million)
of 10-year debt at a yield of 105 basis points more than
benchmark South African bonds maturing in February 2023, less
than the 144 basis-point premium of Namibia’s local bonds due in
October 2024.  The sale follows rand offerings by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and Sydney-based  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  in the past year that
helped expand bonds listed on the  Johannesburg Stock Exchange  to
1.45 trillion rand. Swaziland and  Lesotho , which are in a common
monetary area with South Africa and Namibia, may follow with
their own rand bond sales, according to Leon Myburgh, a currency
strategist for sub-Saharan Africa at Citigroup Inc.  “In the monetary union, because they are pegged to the
rand, there is very little reason why they shouldn’t be doing
it,” Myburgh said by phone from Johannesburg yesterday. “It
gives them the opportunity to tap into a very large pool of
savings.”  New Investors  The bond sale has attracted new investors to Namibia’s debt
and set a benchmark for future offerings, Deputy Finance
Minister Calle Schlettwein said in a phone interview yesterday
from Windhoek, the nation’s capital. The majority of the
investors were from  South Africa , though two were from outside
the continent, he said. They included pension funds, money
managers and banks, Schlettwein said.  Namibia is planning to sell an additional 2.15 billion rand
of bonds, it said in a  prospectus  published on Nov. 3. It also
issued 500 million euros ($637 million) of debt in October 2011
at a yield of 5.67 percent, or 335.7 basis points over U.S.
Treasuries. Those bonds yielded 3.99 percent yesterday.  “This is an important milestone because it is the first
step to make concrete use of the benefits of the common monetary
area,” Schlettwein said. “We would encourage other countries
to do the same.”  The JSE is seeking to lure listings by sovereigns and the
bourse is investigating how to help nations raise foreign
currency debt in South Africa as well as rand securities, said
Bernard Claassens, the exchange’s head of bonds.  Bigger Universe  “We are definitely never going to turn away any issuance,
Claassens said by phone yesterday. ‘‘We are proactively always
trying to look at any country to get them to issue rand-denominated bonds. We definitely welcome Namibia’s listing on
our  bond market , and hopefully it’s the first of many.”  Namibia sold the debt in Johannesburg even after Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded South
Africa’s credit ratings in the past seven weeks and violent
labor strikes that started in the platinum industry in August
shut some mines.  Yields on South Africa’s benchmark notes due December 2026
dropped 80 basis points this year to 7.71 percent yesterday.
Equivalent Namibian local bonds yield declined 94 basis points
to 8.68 percent over the same period. Namibia’s foreign-currency
debt is rated BBB- by  Fitch Ratings  and Baa3 at Moody’s, the
lowest investment grade. South Africa is rated two levels higher
at Moody’s and one higher at Fitch.  “It’s not a bad thing if different sovereigns come to
South Africa to sell debt,” Chris Hamman, who helps oversee
fixed-interest investments among $63.5 billion of assets at Cape
Town-based Sanlam Investment Management, said by phone
yesterday. “The bigger the debt universe the better for
domestic portfolios. It is definitely something we would look
at.”  Infrastructure Bonds  Six sub-Saharan African nations, including Angola and
 Kenya , may each raise the equivalent of at least $500 million
outside of their own markets in the “next few years” to fund
infrastructure spending, Moody’s said on Oct. 3.  Rwanda ,
Tanzania, Uganda and  Mozambique  may also sell their first
foreign-currency bonds, setting a benchmark yield for companies,
including state-owned ones, the ratings company said in a
report. Moody’s didn’t specify where they would raise the money.  Those that do use South Africa have to contend with the
rand’s movements, Arno Lawrenz, chief investment officer at Cape
Town-based Atlantic Asset Management Ltd., which oversees $6.5
billion, said by phone yesterday.  It’s easy for Namibia to sell rand bonds “as there’s no
real  currency risk  due to the currency peg,” he said. “They
don’t have to do any currency hedging.”  The currencies of Namibia, Swaziland and Lesotho are
interchangeable with the rand, eliminating the risk of debt
repayments rising, while lowering borrowing costs, Citigroup’s
Myburgh said.  Diamond Miner  The three-month implied volatility of the rand versus the
dollar, which measures expectations of price swings, was 14.35
percent, the highest among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. The rand weakened 0.1 percent to 8.9236 a dollar
at 10:50 a.m. in Johannesburg, extending its decline this year
to 9.3 percent, the most after  Brazil ’s real out of 16 major
currencies.  Namibia, the world’s biggest offshore diamond miner and the
fourth-largest uranium producer, relies on income from a customs
union with South Africa, Swaziland, Lesotho and  Botswana  for
about a third of its budget, according to government data. The
nation’s budget deficit is estimated to average 3.6 percent of
gross domestic product from the 2011-12 fiscal year to 2013-14,
while public debt will average 28 percent of GDP.  “We are very satisfied with the outcome of the bond
sale,” Schlettwein said. “It showed there is trust in the
Namibian economy. We have a good story to tell.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  