-- Nasdaq Opens Danish Bond Exchange in Loan Drought: Nordic Credit
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-11-15T06:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/nasdaq-opens-danish-bond-exchange-in-loan-drought-nordic-credit.html
The biggest exchange operator in the
Nordic region is unveiling a new platform for corporate bonds as
companies look for credit and investors search for higher-
yielding Scandinavian debt.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , which plans to open its new bond
exchange next month, is seeking to fill a funding gap that’s
been created by banks retrenching amid stricter capital
requirements. The exchange will also help the Danish government
meet its goal of supporting small and medium-sized enterprises
through measures including pooled funding.  “Banks, companies and politicians -- everybody -- are all
saying access to corporate debt markets must improve,” said
Nicolai Wallin, head of fixed income at Nasdaq OMX in
Copenhagen. “Even the buy side wants better opportunities.”  The Danish government has promised to present a proposal
before the end of the year to help small and mid-sized companies
sell debt in an effort to counter a shortage of bank credit.
Denmark’s regional banking crisis has claimed more than a dozen
lenders since 2008, and the economy now faces its second
recession in less than a year. Against that backdrop, SMEs,
which employ about two thirds of Denmark’s workforce, have
struggled to find the funds they need to grow.  Pork Bonds  Nasdaq , which also runs the main stock exchanges in
Stockholm and Copenhagen, says the first bond to trade on its
First North Bond Market will be a 750 million-krone five-year
floating rate note issued by Danish Crown A/S, the world’s
biggest pork producer.  Another two to three companies are considering issuing debt
on the new exchange, which will set less stringent requirements
for documentation and accounting standards than similar
platforms used by larger issuers, Nasdaq says. Investors are
already showing interest.  “It’s definitely something we’ll be looking into,” said
Morten Hansen, a fund manager who oversees 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) in corporate bonds at Copenhagen-based BankInvest.
“Even the unrated and illiquid bonds can be sold if the price
is right. The question is whether investors want in at the
margins that banks are envisioning for this market currently.”  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ,  Denmark ’s biggest lender, will have a unit
dedicated to underwriting debt sold by mid-sized Danish
companies “up and running more or less immediately” once the
government taskforce removes legal barriers, Lars Moerch, head
of business banking, said in a Nov. 8 interview in  London .  Investor Interest  Investors outside Denmark have shown long-term “interest
in getting some Danish bonds on their books,” he said.  BankInvest, which is currently restricted from investing in
non-rated corporate debt by its investment mandates, may
consider easing that clause to invest in debt traded in the new
First North market if volumes picks up, according to Hansen.  While Denmark is home to the world’s third-largest mortgage
bond market, it’s a lightweight in corporate debt. That’s
prompted larger issuers such as A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, owner
of the world’s biggest shipping line, to go to Norway to sell
bonds.  Denmark’s non-financial companies have sold debt for 33.6
billion kroner ($5.82 billion) this year, up from 18.3 billion
kroner for all of 2011, according to data compiled by Povl Bak- Jensen, a director in debt capital markets at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in
Copenhagen.  In Norway, 82 billion kroner ($14.5 billion) in corporate
bonds had been issued as of Oct. 22, according to separate
Nordea estimates. Norway, home to  Scandinavia ’s largest
corporate bond market, has a more established market because
many of the nation’s oil service companies use debt to finance
offshore investments.  Credit Dearth  The Confederation of Danish Industry has warned that
Denmark’s regional banking crisis is creating a dearth of
credit, leaving less cash for businesses to invest. Denmark’s
gross domestic product contracted 0.4 percent in the second
quarter from the first and the confederation estimates output
contracted again in the third quarter.  Even as growth falters, Denmark has emerged as a haven from
 Europe ’s debt crisis as the government keeps its debt load at
less than half the average for the euro zone. Demand for the
krone, which is pegged to Europe’s single currency, has caused
the central bank to cut its benchmark deposit rate below zero.  Haven Effect  Denmark pays about 27 basis points less than  Germany  to
borrow over 10 years, and the country’s 3 percent note due
November 2021 yielded 1.12 percent yesterday. The government
charges investors to hold its two-year debt, which yielded minus
0.14 percent yesterday. The appeal of Denmark’s government bonds
is rubbing off on its other debt markets.  “Investors will have an appetite for new issuances as low
as 100 million kroner when this market matures,” Peter Lauridsen, head of SEB AB Danish bond operation, said in an e-
mail. “This market needs to be driven by Danish institutional
investors like we’ve seen in  Norway  to generate volume. If it
gets off the ground we could see corporate debt of more than 40
companies trading on this platform in a few years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  