-- Neil Young Raises $500,000 for Pono Online Music Format
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-11-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/neil-young-raises-500-000-for-pono-online-music-format.html
Neil Young , the rock singer who said
he was prepared to brave “treacherous” venture capital markets
to popularize his high-fidelity format for downloading music,
raised $500,000 from an investment group last month.  Ivanhoe Inc., a  Santa Monica , California-based company that
lists Young as chief executive officer, got the money from 12
investors, according to an Oct. 29 regulatory filing. Young got
clearance from the U.S. Patent and Trademark office in July to
use the term Ivanhoe in connection with online music
distribution.  The musician, a two-time inductee to the Rock and Roll Hall
of Fame who co-founded the band Buffalo Springfield and played
in Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young before going solo, plans to roll
out an  audio system  called Pono as a higher-quality alternative
to digital formats such as MP3. Young, writing in a new memoir
that he has “big ideas and very little money to show for
them,” said he would finance Pono by turning to investment
firms that typically back technology startups.  “All I have to do now is navigate the waters of venture
capitalism, those treacherous shorelines of commerce, in the HMS
Pono,” Young wrote in “Waging Heavy Peace” ( Blue Rider Press ,
512 pages, $30), published in September by an imprint of Penguin
Group (USA) Inc. “I can’t tell you how scary this is,” Young
added, saying he has never been “on this vessel, in these
waters, with the cargo on board.”  Last month’s filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission didn’t identify the investors or disclose whether the
money came from friends and family,  venture capital  firms or
angel investors.  Jobs, Ford  Venture firms are professional money managers who invest on
behalf of outside clients, typically committing $1 million or
more to each company they fund, according to the National
Venture Capital Association in Arlington, Virginia. Angel
backers, the association says on its website, use their own
money to provide  seed capital  to technology startups, and
generally invest less than $1 million in any one company.  Young, who turned 67 this week, has decried the impact of
music downloading and streaming services such as Apple’s iTunes
and Spotify Ltd. on listening quality, writing in his memoir
that he is “trying like hell to rescue recorded sound so people
can feel music again.” In the book, he described speaking with
industry leaders such as  Steve Jobs , the late co-founder and CEO
of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , and  William Ford , the chairman of  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
as he sought to advance Pono as an alternative to MP3.  ‘New Format’  “As far as a whole new format, I’m not aware of anybody
doing what Neil is trying to do,” said Michael McGuire, media
industry analyst at Gartner Inc., a  Stamford , Connecticut,
provider of research on high-tech industries.  Ivanhoe, incorporated in December in  Delaware , is the
vehicle Young is using to bring his technology to market,
according to Mark Goldstein, who said he served as the company’s
CEO for about six months and is now an adviser.  Elliot Roberts, the record executive who has served as
Young’s manager for decades, is listed as an Ivanhoe director in
last month’s SEC filing. Another director, according to the
filing, is Gisele “Gigi” Brisson, the co-founder of  Attractor
Investment Management  Inc., a Seattle-based  money manager  that
makes angel investments in high-tech startups.  “It’s actually a little early for us to give any
information,” Roberts, the head of Lookout Management in Santa
Monica, said in a brief telephone interview. “When we can
comment, we’ll be an open spigot.”  Roberts said he was speaking on behalf of Young, who
couldn’t be reached for comment. Brisson didn’t return telephone
calls seeking comment.  Venture Capital  Attractor runs three partnerships that invest in the
equities of technology companies and had about $185 million in
client assets under management at the end of August, according
to a Sept. 12 company brochure that was filed with the SEC.  Companies getting venture capital for the first time raised
an average of $3.6 million last year through the third quarter,
according to the MoneyTree Report compiled by
PricewaterhouseCoopers and the  National Venture Capital
Association . Goldstein, described in “Waging Heavy Peace” as a
Pono CEO “candidate,” said Young’s trepidation about venture
capital may stem from unfamiliarity with the industry.  Young “is not a spring chicken and this is something that
is new and different,” Goldstein said in a telephone interview.
“Not much scares him.”  ‘Lossless Technologies’  MP3 is known as a “lossy” format because it compresses
digitized sound by stripping out portions inaudible to the
average listener, making it easier and faster to download the
music and possible to hold more titles on portable players and
mobile phones. With the price of computer  memory  declining and
the availability of broadband  Internet service  growing, the need
to compress files has diminished, paving the way for the use of
“lossless” formats such as Pono that retain all of the
digitized sounds.  “It’s sort of a growing trend among audiophiles who for a
while were in despair that kids were listening to these low-
resolution sound files,” said Ralph Graves, the editor of a
blog for Crutchfield, an online consumer-electronics retailer
based in Charlottesville, Virginia. “Now there are all kinds of
technologies that are moving toward lossless audio formats so
you don’t have to make bad compromises with the sound.”  In applying at the U.S. Patent Office to trademark the word
Ivanhoe, Young said he planned to use the term in connection
with the provision of “online and retail store services”
featuring high-resolution music downloadable from the Internet
and “discs featuring music and video of music and artistic
performances.”  ‘Neat Idea’  In July, the U.S. patent office issued a  notice of
allowance  stating there had been no opposition to Young’s
application. He must now file documents detailing how he plans
to use the trademarks, and has as long as three years to put
them to use, said James Powers, the founder of Data Rights &
Privacy Advisors LLC, a Reston, Virginia-based firm that
consults on intellectual property, privacy and data issues.  “He has a neat idea,” Powers, a former patent and
trademark attorney, said of Young’s venture, which is designed
to provide music lovers with the same level of quality produced
in recording studios. “The demand for greater sound quality is
absolutely there,” Powers said in a telephone interview.  Young decided to brand his concept Pono, which he says is
Hawaiian for “righteous and good,” after discovering that his
original choice, PureTone, was already in use, according to the
singer’s memoir. Warner Music Group, the parent company for
Young’s record label, has agreed to make its catalog of songs
available on Pono, the  New York  Times reported in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  