-- N.Y. Targets 13 Gas Station for Post-Sandy Price Gouging
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-11-15T21:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/new-york-targets-13-gas-stations-for-post-sandy-price-gouging.html
The New York attorney general’s
office notified 13 gas-station operators of plans to bring
enforcement actions against them for alleged price gouging after
 Hurricane Sandy .  The notices are the first actions in an investigation
following hundreds of complaints from consumers across the
state, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said today in
a statement.  “Our office has zero tolerance for price gouging, and we
are taking action to send a message that ripping off  New Yorkers 
is against the law,” Schneiderman said.  New York and New Jersey began investigations into
complaints of price gouging by businesses in the aftermath of
Sandy, which knocked out power to millions, crippled mass
transit and disrupted gasoline supplies.  Schneiderman is also investigating Long Island Power
Authority and Consolidated Edison Inc. over their preparedness
and response to the storm, according to a person familiar with
the matter.  Schneiderman is inquiring whether LIPA violated a state law
requiring it to assure its flow of electricity and the accuracy
of statements to bondholders about its ability to function under
severe conditions, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the matter wasn’t public.  The attorney general is investigating whether Con Edison,
as an investor-owned utility, violated a law requiring it to
supply safe and adequate service, the person said.  The 13 stations that received notices are in six counties:
Nassau, Suffolk and Westchester counties and the New York City
boroughs of  Brooklyn , Queens and the Bronx, the attorney
general’s office said. The notices are the first step in advance
of potential settlements or civil lawsuits against the
businesses, according to the office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 