-- News Corp. Said Close to Buying Stake in Yankees’ Network
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-11-15T21:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/news-corp-said-close-to-buying-stake-in-yankees-network.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  is in advanced
discussions to acquire a stake in YES Network, the cable channel
that carries New York Yankees baseball games, according to
people with direct knowledge of the talks.  Negotiations are ongoing and the sides are working toward
an agreement, said the people, who sought anonymity because they
weren’t authorized to speak publicly. News Corp. would buy its
interest from parties including Providence Equity Partners Inc.
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  The Yankees also hold a stake in
the channel founded by their late owner,  George Steinbrenner .  Adding YES would give Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. a stake
in the channel with games from the Yankees, a marquee Major
League Baseball team, and the National Basketball Association’s
Brooklyn Nets, strengthening its regional sports business. The
company plans a national sports channel next year to compete
with  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN and NBC Universal’s NBC Sports.  YES Network generates more than $200 million in annual
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
making it worth more than $3 billion, Forbes reported in April.
Goldman, which along with Providence Equity helped fund the
network in 2001, held a 34 percent stake, the magazine said.  News Corp., also trying to retain rights to carry Los
Angeles Dodgers baseball games, would pay as much as $1.5
billion for the YES Network stake, assuming the team retains
control and a $3 billion valuation, estimates  Paul Sweeney , an
analyst with Bloomberg Industries.  Julie Henderson , a spokeswoman for News Corp., declined to
comment, as did Andrew Cole, a Providence Equity spokesman, and
Eric Handler, a YES spokesman.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for
Goldman Sachs, declined to comment.  News Corp., based in New York, fell 1.8 percent to $23.12
at the close in New York. The shares have advanced 30 percent
this year.  The New York Times reported yesterday that the sides were
close to an agreement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  