-- Nintendo Faces Wii U Shortage After Debut in U.S. This Weekend
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-11-16T10:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/nintendo-faces-wii-u-shortage-after-debut-in-u-s-this-weekend.html
Nintendo Co. (7974) ’s new Wii U will likely
fly off store shelves during the  holiday shopping season , giving
the creator of Mario and Zelda a temporary boost as it tries to
rebound from its first annual loss.  The Wii U debuts in the U.S. on Nov. 18 starting at $300,
and shortages are likely as the company is expected to sell 3.5
million units this year, according to market researcher IHS
Screen Digest. The long-term outlook for the home console and
its software isn’t so promising as the world’s biggest maker of
video-game machines faces surging sales of smartphones and
tablets, which players use for free online games.  Pressure is mounting on President Satoru Iwata to repeat
the success of the Wii console after the 3DS handheld player
failed to meet sales expectations in overseas markets, prompting
the company to cut its profit goal by 70 percent last month.
Nintendo and rival console makers  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Sony Corp. (6758) 
all face increased competition in the gaming market as consumers
turn to smartphones and tablets such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad to
play free games like “Angry Birds.”  “If the Wii U fails to return Nintendo back to strong
profitability, there is likely to be questions asked of the
strategic direction of the company and the execution of that
strategy,” said Piers Harding-Rolls, London-based head of games
at IHS Screen Digest.  Supply Shortage  The Wii U may sell out during the first six months of its
release, said  Michael Pachter , a Los Angeles-based analyst at
Wedbush Securities Inc. Demand after that may be about 10
million units a year, he said.  By comparison, sales of the Wii reached  5.84 million  units
in the four months after its November 2006 release, and  18.6
million  in the 12 months ended March 2008, according to the
company.  Iwata, 52, told analysts and investors Oct. 25 the Wii U
may be in short supply this year because production only began
“this summer,” according to Nintendo’s  website .  “It has now become more likely that it is our production
capacity, rather than consumer demand, that will place limits on
our Wii U prospects for this calendar year,” Iwata said Oct.
25, according to the website.  Yasuhiro Minagawa, a spokesman for Nintendo, declined to
give a forecast for initial shipments. The console maker said
Oct. 24 it expects to sell 5.5 million units by March 31.  Google, Amazon  “The Wii U won’t be as popular as the Wii,” said Takashi Oka, a Tokyo-based analyst at TIW Inc., who estimates the Kyoto,
Japan-based company will sell 16 million Wii Us in the year
starting April 1. “Nintendo won’t be able to return to the same
level as before.”  The machine goes on sale in  Europe  and  Australia  on Nov. 30
and in  Japan  on Dec. 8.  The  Wii U ’s GamePad controller lets users wirelessly
connect to the console so characters can jump between the device
and a TV. Players also can use the tablet-like controller to
capture screenshots of a game and share them with friends
through the Miiverse social network.  The console also features Nintendo TVii, which can access
streaming video services including Amazon.com’s Instant Video,
Google Inc.’s YouTube and Netflix Inc.  Mario, Lego  The company is introducing the machine with 23 titles,
including “New Super Mario Bros. U” and “Lego City:
Undercover,” and will add 29 more by the end of March in the
U.S., it said Sept. 26. That compares with the 18 titles
released for the 3DS’s debut in the U.S. in March 2011 -- none
of them featuring the company’s iconic plumber in red overalls.  After adding high-definition graphics to the Wii U,
Nintendo attracted developers including Activision Blizzard Inc.
and Electronic Arts Inc. that focused on games for Sony’s
PlayStation 3 and Microsoft’s XBox 360 because of the Wii’s
limitations. Ubisoft Entertainment’s “ZombiU” game will be
exclusive to the Wii U.  Nintendo  rose  1.4 percent to 10,550 yen in Osaka trading,
compared with a 2.2 percent gain in the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average. The company, which is little changed for the year,
posted its first annual  loss  on a stronger yen and sluggish
demand for the 3DS that prompted a price cut.  Apple declined 2.1 percent to $525.62 in  New York  trading,
trimming its year-to-date gain to 30 percent.  The 3DS, which can display 3-D images without glasses, has
picked up sales momentum in Japan with titles including “New
Super Mario Bros. 2” and Capcom Co.’s “Monster Hunter 3 (Tri)
G,” Nintendo said. The player “is not strong enough yet” in
the U.S. and Europe, Iwata said Oct. 25.  IPhone, IPad  “The company must sell the Wii U as planned, otherwise it
may not be able to become profitable,” said  Mitsushige Akino ,
who oversees the equivalent of about $600 million in assets at
Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in  Tokyo . “The company is
in a difficult situation as players now opt for the iPhone and
iPad to kill time.”  The Wii U will sell at a loss, Senior Managing Director
Yoshihiro Mori said Oct. 24.  Net income  may total 6 billion yen for the year ending
March 31, compared with Nintendo’s previous estimate of 20
billion yen, the company said Oct. 24. The game maker posted a
43.2 billion-yen  full-year loss  in the preceding 12 months, its
first since the company went public in 1962.  Nintendo’s annual operating profit  averaged  359 billion yen
in the five years ended March 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Last fiscal year, the operating loss was 37.3 billion
yen.  Apple, Microsoft  The Wii U’s success may also help Nintendo suppliers,
including  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) , which worked with the
video-game maker to develop  system chips  to process graphics and
run software programs for the Wii U, according to Nintendo’s
website.  More than 500,000 customers worldwide are on a waiting list
for the device,  GameStop Corp. (GME) , a specialty retailer with 6,600
stores in the U.S. and Europe, said yesterday. Shoppers placed
orders for 1.2 million Wii U titles worldwide, more than double
that of the original Wii launch, GameStop President Tony Bartel
said in an earnings conference call.  Still, the console is being introduced in a different
market than its predecessor. Cupertino, California-based Apple
introduced the iPhone in 2007 and the iPad in 2010, and its  App
Store  has more than 700,000 applications, Apple said last month.  U.S. retail sales of video-game software, hardware and
accessories fell 25 percent from a year earlier to $755.5
million in October, NPD Group Inc. said Nov. 8. The drop was led
by a 37 percent decline in console sales to $187.3 million, the
 Port Washington , New York-based company said.  That’s forced Nintendo to sell its devices at a loss at the
wholesale level and try to recover profit elsewhere, including
through direct sales, Harding-Rolls said.  “This launch is critically important,”  Reggie Fils-Aime ,
president of Nintendo of America Inc., said in a September
interview. “Are we an anachronism? No way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  