-- Nissan Weighs Mexico for Next North America Plant
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e   a n d   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 2012-11-15T03:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/nissan-weighs-mexico-for-next-north-america-plant.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , Mexico’s largest
automaker, will consider the country along with the U.S. for a
new North American factory to meet demand in both nations, Chief
Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said.  “We will need capacity in North America and yes, there is
a high probability that in the future we will be announcing a
new plant in Mexico or in the U.S.,” Ghosn told reporters in
Mexico City yesterday, without providing a timetable for the
decision.  Nissan is already building its third plant in Mexico,
breaking ground in July on the $2 billion factory in the central
state of Aguascalientes. The Yokohama, Japan-based automaker
boosted production in Mexico by 16 percent to more than 583,000
vehicles in the first 10 months of this year, according to the
 Mexican Automobile Industry Association .  That makes Nissan part of an assembly-line surge pushing
Mexican auto output and exports toward a record in 2012. Foreign
automakers have announced $7.8 billion in investments in the
country in the past 24 months, according to  Sean McAlinden , a
labor economist with the Center for Automotive Research in  Ann
Arbor ,  Michigan .  The new North America plant would probably be needed based
on sales forecasts for the next three years, Ghosn said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Taking Stock” with Pimm
Fox. Ghosn said no decision has been made yet on the location or
timing of the plant.  Sentra, Versa Models  Nissan makes such models as the Sentra and Versa in Mexico.
It is also investing 2.6 billion reais ($1.3 billion) to build a
plant near  Rio de Janeiro  with a production capacity of 200,000
units that’s scheduled to open in 2014.  Demand in the U.S. “is recovering but not yet to the level
before the 2008 financial crisis,” said Takeshi Miyao, an
analyst at research firm Carnorama  Japan  in  Tokyo . “Considering
the U.S. demography and economy, the demand may keep recovering,
so Nissan’s capacity in  North America  will not be enough and
it’s necessary to have another plant.”  Ghosn has said he wants Nissan to win 10 percent of auto
sales in the U.S., where it currently holds a 7.9 percent market
share, down from 8.1 percent a year ago. The company has a 25
percent share in Mexico, making it the nation’s top auto seller,
according to the Mexican Automobile Industry Association.  Ghosn said he was in Mexico to meet with President-elect
Enrique Pena Nieto and to inaugurate a charging station for
electric cars today.  Leaf Sales Decline  Nissan isn’t on pace to meet its sales target for battery-
powered Leaf hatchbacks in the U.S., Ghosn said in the Bloomberg
Television interview.  “The forecast we have given ourselves for the year will
not be reached,” he said.  In January, he set a target of selling 20,000 Leafs in the
U.S. this year. Sales through October totaled 6,791, down 16
percent from a year earlier.  Limited charging infrastructure for electric vehicles in
the U.S. has tempered demand, Ghosn said.  “We’re trying to convince more cities and states to invest
in this infrastructure,” he said. “We recognize the fact that
the increase of sales is taking more time than we thought at the
beginning.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan Case in  Mexico  City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  