-- NJ Insurance Regulator Gets Out-of-State Aid on Sandy
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-11-15T22:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/nj-insurance-regulator-gets-out-of-state-aid-on-sandy.html
New Jersey’s insurance watchdog will
receive assistance from regulators in  Iowa ,  Kansas ,  Missouri  and
 Nebraska  as policyholders in the state seek assistance dealing
with their carriers after suffering damage in superstorm Sandy.  Volunteers from the other states will staff a call center
in Kansas City, Missouri, responding to inquiries from New
Jersey residents and collecting claims information, according to
a  statement  today from the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners.  “If it turns out that the volume of calls coming in
exceeds the number of representatives that we have at our call
center, the overflow will go out to the NAIC,” Marshall
McKnight, a spokesman for the New Jersey regulator, said by
phone.  The storm knocked out power to businesses, displaced
residents from their homes and caused as much as $25 billion in
insured damage nationwide, with New Jersey and New York among
the hardest hit states. New Jersey may release a preliminary
tally of damage from last month’s storm as soon as next week,
Governor Chris Christie said Nov. 13.  The New Jersey regulator has received about 400 calls from
Sandy, which made landfall on Oct. 29, and the number will rise
as residents return to their homes, McKnight said.  The storm has pressured the state government, and may have
hurt October and November revenue, casting doubt on a planned
tax cut, the governor has said. Regulators whose states were
spared damage are prepared to help other watchdogs, as they did
after Hurricane Katrina in 2005, according to Kevin McCarty,
president of the NAIC.  The effort will “allow us to centralize and maximize our
ability to promptly assist consumers,” McCarty said in the
statement. “Our successful coordinated efforts following
Hurricane Katrina demonstrated our readiness for recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  