-- Norden Declines on Reduced Fleet Valuation: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-15T10:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/norden-declines-on-reduced-fleet-valuation-copenhagen-mover.html
D/S Norden A/S (DNORD) ,  Europe ’s biggest
commodity shipping company, dropped to the lowest price in two
months in Copenhagen after Nordea Equity Research and Nykredit
Markets reduced share estimates citing a lower fleet value.  Norden  declined  as much as 1.9 percent to 146.60 kroner,
the lowest since Sept. 12. The stock of the Hellerup, Denmark-
based company retreated 1.3 percent to 147.5 kroner at 10:22
a.m. in the Danish capital, with trading volume at 44 percent of
the three-month daily average.  Norden, which is battling overcapacity and falling freight
rates, yesterday reported operating profit that missed analyst
estimates and said the value of its bulk carriers and tankers
declined by 6 percent during the third quarter. Nykredit today
repeated an underperform recommendation on the share and said
Norden’s net asset value is declining at a “surprising” rate.  “The earnings report shows the significant market
challenges under which the company operates, both in the dry
bulk and in the tanker segment,” Ricky S. Rasmussen, an analyst
with Nykredit in Copenhagen, said in the note. He cut his price
estimate to 123 kroner from 128 kroner.  Finn Bjarke Petersen, an analyst with Nordea in Copenhagen,
today cut his share price estimate to 165 kroner from 195
kroner, repeating a buy  recommendation , “albeit with
significant reduced upside.”  Norden’s earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization fell to $23 million in the third quarter, missing
the average estimate of $27.7 million in a Bloomberg survey of
12 analysts. The shipping company said its theoretical net asset
value, a measure based on vessel prices and time charter rates,
decreased by 13 percent to 198 kroner a share in the third
quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  