-- Norton Rose Merger, McKenna Long, White: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-11-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/norton-rose-merger-mckenna-long-white-business-of-law.html
Norton Rose  LLP and Fulbright &
Jaworski LLP are merging, putting the new firm among the 10
biggest in the world by revenue.  The partners approved the combination earlier this month,
the firms said yesterday. The new firm will operate as Norton
Rose Fulbright from June 2013 and be one of the 10 biggest by
revenue, according to American Lawyer magazine’s 2012 law firm
survey.  The deal, which creates a trans-Atlantic 3,800-attorney
firm with revenue of $1.9 billion, is one of the most
significant marriages since the 2010 tie-up between  Washington ,
D.C.-based Hogan & Hartson and the U.K.’s Lovells. London-based
Norton Rose has spent much of the last two years significantly
expanding its global footprint through mergers in  Canada ,
 Australia  and  South Africa .  “You cannot claim to be a truly global law firm without
strength and depth in the U.S., as it represents over 50 percent
of the world’s legal services market -- and Fulbright is a good
name,” Tony Williams, founder of legal industry advisory firm
Jomati Consultants LLP, said in a telephone interview.  The combined firm, operating under a so-called Swiss verein
corporate structure, will have 55 offices worldwide to service
clients like  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , the Brentford, U.K.-based
drugmaker, and  New York  insurer  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)   “We have been looking at the U.S. market for a number of
years, seeking a firm that meets our requirements,” Norton Rose
Chief Executive Officer Peter Martyr, who will be the global CEO
of the merged firm, said in yesterday’s statement. Fulbright
“is financially strong, with forward-looking management and
similar strategic growth aspirations.”  Norton Rose reported global revenues of $1.3 billion
dollars in the last financial year while Fulbright posted $597.5
million in 2011.  McKenna Appoints New Heads of Los Angeles, Washington Offices  McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP appointed two new office
managing partners, Kathy Jorrie in  Los Angeles , and Joanne
Zimolzak in Washington. With their appointment, the firm now has
women in charge of its three largest offices, including Atlanta.  Jorrie, who has been with the firm since 1998, does
transactional and litigation work both domestically and
internationally, primarily in business and entertainment
matters. She was previously the partner-in-charge of the Los
Angeles office of Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps LLP, which
combined with McKenna Long in March.  She succeeds William Sayers as Los Angeles office managing
partner. Sayers remains with the firm as a partner in its
litigation practice.  Zimolzak, who has been with the firm since 1994, focuses
her practice on complex business litigation relating to
commercial and government contracts. She is a leader of the
firm’s Washington-based insurance litigation practice and works
with clients to identify and analyze potential legal risks and
opportunities associated with complex emerging exposures,
including  climate change , hydrofracking, and cybersecurity.  Zimolzak succeeds Thomas Papson, who served as McKenna
Long’s Washington office managing partner since 2003. Papson
remains with the firm as a partner in its litigation and
government contracts practices.  Joann Jones has been the Atlanta office managing partner
since January 2010. She focuses her practice on real estate
development and finance.  McKenna Long’s Washington office has more than 100
attorneys and strategic advisers. The Los Angeles office has
more than 80 attorneys and strategic advisers. The firm has more
than 575 attorneys and public policy advisers in 13 offices in
the U.S. and Brussels.  News  In-House Lawyers See Modest Gains in Salary, Survey Shows  In-house legal counsel have seen modest salary increases in
the last year, 2.6 percent on average across all levels,
according to an in-house compensation survey by HBR Consulting.  Total compensation for chief legal officers at the
companies surveyed was $1.96 million on average with total
compensation for all attorney levels at $314,700.  “We are seeing healthy increases in in-house compensation
at all lawyer levels, despite the challenging economic
environment,” Lauren Chung, senior director and survey editor
said.  The survey included data on more than 6,000 attorneys at
146 companies with the median company having 32 lawyers
worldwide and more than $9 billion in worldwide revenues,
according to HBR, formerly known as Hildebrandt Baker Robbins.  The increases are in sharp contrast to HBR’s survey last
year, which found an average increase of 7.8 percent in
compensation.  Chung said in an interview that the jump was because bonus
levels the prior year had been almost nonexistent.  The survey also broke down salaries and found that 78
percent of respondents said they are moving more base
compensation to variable pay, like cash bonuses and other
incentive pay.  “When there’s instability and a lot of unknown in the
economy, the variable pay is an opportunity for a company to
have discretion in an environment where you don’t know how the
company is going to perform,” she said.  Dewey Committee to Sue Three Former Top Officers  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP will allow the official creditors’
committee to sue the defunct  law firm ’s three former top
officers. The lawsuit will seek to recover from the firm’s $50
million in officers’ and directors’ insurance.  The committee laid out a case for mismanagement in papers
filed this week in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in New York. There will
be a Nov. 29 hearing for the bankruptcy judge to grant formal
authority allowing the committee to sue.  The committee explained that the firm can’t sue because the
insurance policies prevent Dewey from recovering on its own
policy.  The committee described the elements of mismanagement as
including over-distribution of cash, income guarantees given to
30 percent of partners, and concealment of Dewey’s financial
condition.  The firm leaders targeted by the committee are  Steven Davis , the former chairman; Stephen DiCarmine, the former
 executive director ; and Joel Sanders, the ex-chief financial
officer. The committee says they received $7 million of income
in the year before bankruptcy.  Dewey has two official committees, one for unsecured
creditors and the other for former partners. The firm once had
1,300 lawyers before liquidation began under Chapter 11 in May.  There was secured debt of about $225 million and accounts
receivable of $217.4 million at the outset of bankruptcy, the
firm said. The petition listed assets of $193 million and
liabilities of $245.4 million as of April 30.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Moves  Hedge Fund General Counsel Joins Schulte Roth & Zabel  Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP has added Brian T. Daly as a
partner in the firm’s investment management and regulatory and
compliance groups in the New York office.  Daly joins the firm after nearly a decade in-house as
general counsel and chief compliance officer at several hedge
fund firms. He most recently was with Kepos Capital LP, which he
joined in early 2010 as a founding partner. Previously, he
served as the principal legal counsel and compliance officer for
Raptor Capital Management LP and Carlyle-Blue Wave Partners
Management LP, joining both firms at inception. Daly began his
in-house career at Millennium Partners LP, where he became
general counsel.  Daly will concentrate on advising hedge and private equity
fund managers on regulatory, compliance and operational matters,
including registration and disclosure obligations, trading
issues, advertising and marketing, and the establishment of
compliance programs.  Schulte Roth’s regulatory and compliance group represents
more than 300 private fund managers, including 50 of the 100
largest hedge fund managers, the firm said.  The firm has offices in New York, Washington and  London .  Locke Lord Hires Banking and Finance Partner Morris  Finance and banking lawyer Luke Morris has joined the
London office of Locke Lord LLP as a partner in its
transactional banking team in London. Morris comes to Locke Lord
from Mishcon de Reya Ltd, where he headed the banking and
finance team for the past five years, the firm said.  Morris advises lenders, financial institutions, real estate
and private equity houses and funds on a range of debt financing
transactions. These include real estate investments and
developments, leveraged buy-outs, corporate loans, swap and
hedging transactions, refinancings, recapitalizations, work-outs
and restructurings, the firm said in a statement.  Locke Lord LLP has about 650 attorneys in 13 offices in the
U.S., London and  Hong Kong .  McDermott Hires DLA Piper Restructuring Lawyer in New York  McDermott Will & Emery LLP hired Jeremy R. Johnson as a
partner in the firm’s New York office. Johnson, who was
previously at DLA Piper LLP, joins McDermott’s restructuring and
insolvency practice.  In his restructuring practice, Johnson advises domestic and
international clients in insolvency proceedings, out-of-court
restructurings and insolvency issues in non-distressed
transactions. He has served as counsel to corporate debtors,
committees, creditors, purchasers of distressed assets, the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and other stakeholders in
bankruptcy cases, with an emphasis on corporate debtor and buy-
side asset sale representation, the firm said.  McDermott Will & Emery has more than 1,100 lawyers at 18
offices in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia .  Reed Smith Hires Real Estate Partner in Falls Church, Virginia  Reed Smith  LLP announced that David S. Houston has joined
the firm as a partner in its real-estate practice in the  Falls
Church , Virginia office. Houston was formerly a partner in the
Tysons Corner office of Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP, the
firm said.  Houston’s real-estate development practice has a focus in
 land use  as well as retail leasing. He has represented land
developers, owners, companies, institutions, and lenders for
more than 30 years throughout Fairfax and Arlington Counties.  Reed Smith has more than 160 lawyers worldwide in the
firm’s real-estate practice. The firm has more than 1,700
lawyers in 23 offices throughout the U.S., Europe, Asia and the
 Middle East .  Litigation  Nexans, Prysmian Win Court Bid Against EU Cable Cartel Raids  Prysmian SpA (PRY)  and  Nexans SA (NEX) , represented by White & Case
LLP, partly overturned a European Union decision ordering
antitrust raids that seized swathes of company documents, a
ruling that may clip the wings of the bloc’s competition
regulator in future probes.  The EU General Court, the bloc’s second-highest tribunal,
yesterday partly annulled decisions by the European Commission
from 2009 to raid the companies over their alleged roles in
fixing prices for undersea and underground high-voltage power
cables, saying the scope of its information-gathering was too
wide.  “The commission will now have to make sure it’s on much
firmer ground before it goes on a fishing expedition,” said
Christopher Hutton, a competition-law specialist with Hogan
Lovells LLP in London.  The EU’s antitrust watchdog last year sent formal
complaints to as many as nine companies including  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  in
the wake of its 2009 raids. Prysmian and Nexans argued that
officials failed to adequately define the goal of the
inspections, during which officials mined the contents of entire
hard drives of several managers.  The White & Case team was led by partners Mark Powell and
Jean-Paul Tran Thiet. They were assisted by White & Case
partners J. Mark Gidley and Peter Carney.  Claudio Tesauro, head of the antitrust and regulatory
affairs department of Bonelli Erede Pappalardo, was counsel for
Pyrsmian Europe.  “The commission has not demonstrated that it had
reasonable grounds for ordering an inspection covering all
electric cables and the material associated with those cables,”
the Luxembourg-based court said. The companies’ other points,
including a request to get back documents and copies taken
during the raids, were rejected. The ruling can be appealed to
the EU Court of Justice, the bloc’s highest court.  Following yesterday’s decisions, the commission “won’t be
able to use any of the evidence, documents or statements” from
the raids that don’t concern high voltage underwater and
underground cables, said Trevor Soames, a lawyer with Shearman &
Sterling LLP in Brussels who isn’t involved in the matter.  The Brussels-based commission will closely examine the
rulings “and the consequences that need to be drawn from
them,” Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the commission, said
in an e-mail.  “It should however be noted that the General Court has
upheld the commission’s inspection decisions as regards the high
voltage underground and submarine cables which form part of the
Commission’s ongoing cartel investigation into the power cables
sector,” he said.  The cases are T-140/09, Prysmian, Prysmian Cavi and Sistemi
Energia v. Commission, T-135/09, Nexans France and Nexans v.
Commission.  For more, click here  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 