-- Norway Heads for Record Electricity Exports Amid Water Glut
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-11-15T08:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/norway-heads-for-record-electricity-exports-amid-water-glut.html
Norway ’s power exports may hit a
record this year, amid abundant hydroelectric output and rain,
evidencing a need for more cross-border cables for trade, Energy
Norway said today.  The country has so far this year shipped a net power glut
of 17 terawatt-hours abroad, worth nearly 4 billion Norwegian
kroner ($ 694 million) and equivalent to half of yearly domestic
electricity use, with exports for the year poised to exceed a
record 19 terawatt-hours from 12 years ago, the industry
association said in an e-mailed statement.  Norway’s  water reservoirs  are filled to the brim, and the
glut can’t be absorbed by domestic demand, so without exports,
the operators of hydropower plants would be forced to spill the
surplus into the sea, Oluf Ulseth, chief executive officer of
Energy Norway said in the statement.  Running water through turbines provides 99 percent of
Norwegian electricity consumption, which exposes it to volatile
weather factors, with dry spells triggering power imports and
wet periods resulting in exports. This shows a need for more
power cables to boost trade with neighboring countries, the
association said.  Planned power cables set to link Norway to  Germany  and the
U.K. must benefit the country, and not be used purely for cheap
electricity exports, if they are built, Ola Borten Moe, oil
minister said on Oct. 18.  The boost in water supplies has benefited the country’s
leading hydropower operators, Statkraft AS and  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY) ,
while record Swedish water supplies have boosted output for the
Nordic region’s biggest utility Vattenfall AB and  Finland ’s
biggest power company  Fortum Oyj (FUM1V) , both reported last month in
their third-quarter earnings statements.  The glut of water supplies has cut average price for day-
ahead power in the region by 38 percent from the same period of
2011 this year to a five-year low of 29.92 euros ($38.11) a
megawatt-hour in the Nordic market, which covers Norway,  Sweden ,
 Denmark  and Finland, according to data from the Nord Pool Spot
AS exchange in Oslo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  