-- Oil Trades Near One-Week High After Israeli Air Strikes on Gaza
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-11-15T10:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/oil-trades-near-one-week-high-after-israeli-air-strikes-on-gaza.html
Oil traded near the highest level in
more than a week after  Israel  attacked the  Gaza Strip , raising
concern that Middle East unrest would disrupt supply. A report
showed U.S. stockpiles rose to the highest since July.  Futures were little changed in New York after advancing for
the first time in three days yesterday. The air strikes killed
Ahmed al-Jabari, the leader of Hamas’s military wing, according
to Gaza’s Health Ministry. The Israeli army said it called up
reserves for a possible infantry assault on Gaza that would be
the first since 2008. U.S.  crude inventories  climbed 1.35
million barrels last week, data from the  American Petroleum
Institute  showed. Government data today may show a gain of 2.65
million barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “Middle Eastern tension will skew the bias to the
upside,” said Michael Poulsen, an analyst at Global Risk
Management in Middelfart,  Denmark . “We continue to advise
consumers to take advantage of any dips in the market.”  Crude for December delivery was at $86.31 a barrel, down 1
cent, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 10:33 a.m. London time. The contract increased 94 cents, or
1.1 percent, to $86.32 yesterday, the highest settlement since
Nov. 6. Prices have lost 13 percent this year.  Brent for December settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange, which expires today, rose 49 cents to
$110.10 a barrel. The more actively traded January contract
gained 30 cents to $108.78. The European benchmark crude was at
a $23.84  premium  to  New York  futures, from $23.29 yesterday.  Rocket Attacks  Oil in New York remains in a downtrend channel on the daily
chart, signaling price advances may not be sustainable, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Futures have traded between the
middle and lower Bollinger Bands for almost two months. These
indicators, representing technical resistance and support levels
respectively, are around $88 and $82.50 a barrel today.  The Israeli strikes followed the firing of more than 115
rockets from Gaza into Israel this week, adding to a total of
about 14,000 missiles fired from the territory in the past 11
years, according to the Israeli Defense Ministry. Since the
conclusion of Israel’s 2008 ground attack on Gaza, the
government has said it holds Hamas responsible for the rocket
attacks because it runs the coastal territory.  “Adjusting  risk premium  in response to Middle East events
is standard fare for oil markets,” said Ric Spooner, a chief
market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “Traders have to be
conscious that the more likely alternative is that nothing comes
out of this as the oil market is concerned and they don’t want
to be left with a position in a well-supplied market.”  U.S. crude stockpiles probably climbed to 377.5 million
barrels in the week ended Nov. 9, the highest since July,
according to the  median estimate  of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The Energy Department is releasing weekly supply data
a day later than usual because of the Veterans Day holiday on
Nov. 12.  U.S. Gasoline  Gasoline inventories slid 103,000 barrels last week, said
the industry-funded API. Supplies are forecast to fall 1 million
barrels, according to the survey. Distillate-fuel inventories,
including heating oil and diesel, rose 184,000 barrels compared
with a projected decline of 950,000 barrels in the survey.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  