-- Oil Hits Futures as MSCI Lifts Sberbank: Russia Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-11-16T03:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/oil-hits-futures-as-msci-lifts-sberbank-russia-overnight.html
Russian  stock futures  sank in New
York as crude, the nation’s biggest export earner, dropped for
the third time in four days.  Futures expiring in December on  Russia ’s RTS Index slipped
0.4 percent to 137,240 in U.S. trading hours as expected swings
in the contracts rose 1.1 percent, according to the Russian
Volatility Index.  OAO Sberbank (SBRCY) , Russia’s biggest lender, led a
0.3 percent advance in the  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of
the most-traded Russian companies in the U.S.  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  and
 OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT)  tumbled as rival OAO MegaFon resumed
marketing for its initial share offering.  Oil sank 1 percent yesterday after reports showed American
jobless claims rose more than economists estimated last week and
manufacturing shrunk in New York and Philadelphia. U.S.
stockpiles of oil -- which along with natural gas contributes
about 50 percent of Russian government revenue -- rose last week
as  production  jumped to an 18-year high, the  Department of
Energy  said yesterday.  “When oil slumped suddenly around midday, the Russian
futures went down with them,” Ilya Kravets, who helps manage
$100 million in assets, including Russian equities, at Daniloff
Capital LLC, said by phone in New York yesterday. “The futures
are reflecting what we’ll see in the market, which is going to
be a letdown primarily because of the oil price.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, added 1.1 percent to $26.54 in New
York, rising for the first time in three days. Russia’s
benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  gained 1 percent yesterday to 1,386.25 as
Israeli air strikes on the  Gaza Strip  stoked gains in oil during
the European trading day.  Urals Declines  Crude oil for December delivery slumped to $85.45 a barrel
by the end of trading yesterday on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , extending the decline this year to 14 percent. Brent
oil for January settlement fell 0.4 percent to $108.01 on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange, while Urals crude, Russia’s chief
export blend, slipped 0.8 percent to $107.17.  American depositary receipts of state-controlled Sberbank
surged 2.8 percent to $10.84 in New York, the biggest one-day
climb since Sept. 14. The advance followed a 1.7 percent climb
in the lender’s Micex-traded stock to 86.12 rubles, or the
equivalent of $2.72. The ADRs, which equal four ordinary shares,
traded at the  smallest discount  to Moscow since Oct. 31.  Telenor CFO  Moscow-based Sberbank had its weighting in MSCI Inc.’s
Russia Index boosted by 2.5 percentage points to 14.4 percent,
according to a report on MSCI’s website. The increase “helps
bring funds into the stock,” as many global portfolios track
MSCI’s indexes, Stanislav Kopylov, who helps manage about $3.4
billion at UralSib Capital in Moscow, including Sberbank shares,
said by phone yesterday.  Futures on the ruble were little changed in New York at
31.86 per dollar. Russia’s currency was also steady in Moscow
yesterday at 31.6624 versus the greenback.  VimpelCom, the world’s sixth-biggest mobile phone company
by subscribers, dropped 2.6 percent to $10.66 in New York
yesterday, a two-month low. VimpelCom got 42 percent of revenue
from Russia last year, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Nordic phone company  Telenor ASA (TEL) , which has been engaged in
a fight for control of VimpelCom with fellow  investor  Altimo,
has no plans to sell its stake in the company, Chief Financial
Officer Richard Olav Aa said in an interview in Barcelona
yesterday. Telenor is a long-term shareholder in VimpelCom, he
said.  ‘Feeling the Hit’  MegaFon, Russia’s second-largest mobile-phone operator,
plans to raise as much as $2.1 billion in the biggest initial
public offering by a Russian company since United Co. Rusal, the
world’s biggest aluminum producer, issued stock almost three
years ago. MegaFon is resuming marketing for its IPO after
suspending the campaign last month to amend details of the
prospectus.  Mobile TeleSystems, Russia’s biggest mobile company known
as MTS, sank 1.5 percent to $16.57 in the U.S., the lowest level
since June 25. MTS’ Micex-listed shares added 1.3 percent in
Moscow, shrinking their  discount  to the ADRs to 1.9 percent, the
least in a year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Both VimpelCom and MTS are feeling the hit now that the
MegaFon IPO is back on,” Daniloff’s Kravets said. “VimpelCom
is down a little more because MegaFon is taking some market
share from them.”  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
dropped 0.7 percent to HK$4.43 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:02
a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  