-- Money Funds Lift Government Debt in Liquidity Grab, Fitch Says
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-11-15T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/money-funds-lift-government-debt-in-liquidity-grab-fitch-says.html
Money-market mutual funds, in an
effort to increase liquidity while reducing market-volatility
risk and meeting regulatory requirements, have focused since
2007 on boosting holdings of government debt, according to Fitch
Ratings.  U.S. government securities, including Treasuries and agency
debt, saw the largest increase among rises in liquid assets held
by money funds, according to Fitch’s analysis of data from the
10 largest U.S. prime money-market mutual funds in a report
published yesterday.  The percentage of fund assets invested in Treasuries and
agencies rose to 22 percent as of the end of September, from 2
percent in August 2007. Liquid securities overall rose to 45
percent of funds’ assets at the end of September from about 20
percent at the end of 2006, the Fitch report showed.  The Securities and Exchange Commission enacted several
rules changes for money funds in 2010 amid efforts by regulators
to make the industry more stable after the Sept. 16, 2008,
collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund.  Investors withdrew about $310 billion from prime money
funds that week, helping to freeze global credit markets. The
Treasury and Federal Reserve stepped in with guarantees and
other steps to stop the run. Rules created included minimum
liquidity levels for the first time, reduced maximum allowed
average maturity of holdings and new disclosure requirements.  SEC Changes  “A meaningful portion of this increase is attributable to
SEC rule changes implemented in 2010, which among other
restrictions place a 30 percent floor on the level of liquid
assets available in one week or less” wrote authors of the
report, led by Martin Hansen, New York-based senior credit
director at Fitch.  Fitch broadly defines liquid assets as money funds’ direct
holdings of U.S. Treasury and agency securities, irrespective of
maturity, as well as other bank and corporate investments,
including repurchase agreements, with a residual maturity of one
week or less.  “The sizable liquidity buffer that funds are holding
beyond these new regulatory minimums also reflects money-market
funds risk aversion,” the authors wrote. “Once market
volatility eases, Fitch expects funds will, in turn, seek to
reduce these buffers and take advantage of higher-yielding,
longer-duration investment opportunities.”  Geithner Effort  Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner on Nov. 13 urged the
SEC to pursue new rules for money-market mutual funds,
triggering fresh opposition from industry leaders who had beaten
back similar proposals and are pursuing a weaker overhaul.  Geithner, heading a Washington meeting of the Financial
Stability Oversight Council, a group formed by the Dodd-Frank
Act to address systemic financial risks, won unanimous approval
for a draft recommendation to the SEC spelling out three ways to
overhaul the $2.6 trillion industry.  The Fitch money-fund sample represents roughly $646
billion, or 45 percent, of the Investment Company Institute’s
estimate of about $1.44 trillion in total U.S. prime money-
market funds assets under management.  Prime money-market-fund investments include bank
certificates of deposits, commercial paper, repurchase
agreements and short-term notes and deposits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  