-- Long Island Power Crisis Spurs Bondholder Interest: Muni Credit
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-11-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/long-island-power-crisis-spurs-bondholder-interest-muni-credit.html
More than two weeks after  Hurricane
Sandy , Long Island Power Authority still hasn’t restored power
to all its customers. Protesters holding “Lie-PA” signs decry
the nation’s second-biggest municipal utility.  As 90 percent of LIPA’s 1.1 million customers shivered in
the dark at one point, bondholders reaped gains. Amid the best
 rally  in three months in benchmark local debt, borrowings of the
utility are doing even better. The securities held their gains
even after LIPA’s chief operating officer resigned this week and
as Governor  Andrew Cuomo  ordered a probe into the performance of
the state’s utilities.  On Nov. 13, 10-year debt issued by LIPA and backed by bill
payments traded at a yield of 2.23 percent, or 0.68 percentage
point more than  AAA securities , data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That yield penalty is down from June, when LIPA sold the A-
rated bonds at a spread of 0.83 percentage point.  “The technicals of the muni market have trumped what’s
going on” as far as the credit risk, said Brian Steeves, a
portfolio manager in  White Plains , New York, at Belle Haven
Investments, which manages $1.2 billion of munis. Investors are
ignoring the credit risk, he said.  Beating AAA’s  Local bonds with an A rating, five steps below AAA, have
earned 8.6 percent this year, according to Barclays Plc data.
Investors looking for extra yield amid the lowest muni  interest
rates  in a generation have bid up lower-rated debt. Top-rated
state and city bonds have returned 5 percent.  The extra yield on LIPA revenue debt has dropped as much as
24 percent in the last month, Municipal Securities Rulemaking
Board trade data show. A LIPA bond callable at par in April 2019
traded Nov. 9 at a 1.85 percent yield, or 1.1 percentage points
more than top-rated securities. Two weeks earlier, the bonds
traded with a penalty of 1.44 percentage points.  Investors looking to capture higher yields are more willing
to buy riskier debt than bonds with longer maturities, said
Kathleen Bramlage, a director in New York at Hightower Advisors’
Treasury Partners unit, which manages about $10 billion. The
more years a bond takes to mature, the more vulnerable it is
when interest rates rise.  “The risk is if interest rates move higher, you really
don’t want to have a long-duration portfolio,” she said. In
addition, many investors are betting federal income tax rates
will climb, increasing the value of tax-exempt munis.  ‘Weak’ Protection  Protection for LIPA bondholders is weaker than most other
municipal electric utilities because the terms governing its
rates only require that it cover costs, Moody’s Investors
Service said in a May 17 report. LIPA’s debt-service coverage
ratio, or the amount of cash available to meet interest and
principal payments, is 1.1. That’s “weak” for the A3 rating on
LIPA’s senior revenue bonds, Moody’s said.  Among U.S. municipal utilities, LIPA, which serves Nassau
and Suffolk counties on  Long Island  and the Rockaways in the New
York City borough of Queens, trails only the Los Angeles
Department of Water & Power in the size of its customer base.  Sandy hit Oct. 29, knocking out power to 1 million LIPA
customers as falling trees downed transmission lines and
substations flooded. A week later, 200,000 LIPA customers still
didn’t have power. Customers protested at a LIPA office in
Hicksville, New York.  About 7,900 customers still didn’t have power as of 4:23
p.m. local time yesterday, according to the utility’s website.  Flawed Model  The utility outsources its power transmission and delivery
operations. A unit of London-based  National Grid Plc (NG/)  holds the
contract.  Public Service Enterprise Group Inc. (PEG) , based in  Newark ,
 New Jersey , will take over in 2014. That model creates conflict
because 90 percent of LIPA’s 2,000-member staff is controlled by
National Grid, not LIPA, according to a 2011 strategic review by
the Brattle Group.  LIPA hasn’t estimated the cost of restoring power.
 Hurricane Irene , which last year left as many as 500,000
customers without power, cost $170 million. The utility still
hasn’t received the full $100 million reimbursement from the
 Federal Emergency Management Agency  for Irene-related damage,
according to a Nov. 5 report by Moody’s.  Moody’s had the debt on negative outlook even before the
storm.  LIPA won’t have to disburse cash for a few months until
after contractors complete their audit and billing process,
Moody’s said.  Rate Resistance  Fitch Ratings  on Nov. 12 lowered the outlook on LIPA’s $5.9
billion senior electric-system revenue bonds to negative, saying
the cost of restorations and repairs will frustrate efforts to
improve financial performance.  LIPA expects the federal government to reimburse at least
75 percent of storm costs. Yet political pressure may limit its
ability to raise rates to help pay storm expenses.  “Given the intense political pressure surrounding LIPA’s
storm response and the authority’s historic objective to
moderate already high electric rates, Fitch believes that LIPA’s
willingness to increase rates may be limited,” the rating
company said.  LIPA’s total average electric rate of 18.2 cents per
kilowatt hour is among the nation’s highest, according to the
Brattle Group.  Debt Service  One of the primary drivers is the cost of servicing $6.7
billion of debt LIPA issued in 1998 to finance the acquisition
of the Long Island Lighting Co., an investor-owned utility.
Lilco spent $6 billion to build the Shoreham nuclear power plant
in Suffolk County from 1973 to 1984. The site never opened
because of community opposition.  LIPA has about $500 million of cash and $100 million of
untapped commercial-paper capacity, said Laura Schumacher, a
Moody’s analyst in  New York . Its cash will shrink by $100
million in December when it has to make a debt-service payment,
according to Moody’s. LIPA is also close to establishing new
credit lines for as much as $500 million, Moody’s said.  “They will evaluate all of these things and make a
decision as to whether they need to raise rates or not,”
Schumacher said. “It’s an issue for any public utility. Rate
increases are not popular.”  Following are pending sales:  NEW YORK CITY TRANSITIONAL FINANCE AUTHORITY is set to
borrow $895 million as soon as today to fund capital projects
and refinance debt, according to bond documents. (Added Nov. 15)  TEXAS MUNICIPAL GAS ACQUISITION & SUPPLY CORP. plans to
sell $1 billion of gas supply revenue bonds as soon as next
week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Proceeds will finance the
prepayment of a 20-year supply of natural gas, according to bond
documents. (Added Nov. 15)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  