-- Monte Paschi Investors Denied Vintage Wine at Oldest Bank
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-11-16T11:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/monte-paschi-investors-denied-vintage-wine-at-oldest-bank.html
Nestled in the hills of Tuscany,
 Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA , the world’s oldest bank,
once hosted shareholders with its own vintage Chianti and mounds
of beef brisket.  At its last annual general meeting in October they got
sandwiches and mineral water.  Chairman  Alessandro Profumo  and Chief Executive Fabrizio Viola have little time to savor Monte Paschi’s priceless art
collection and its vino di Toscana “Rosso 1472,” grown just
outside its base in the city of Siena. Appointed this year,
they’re slashing costs to reverse a decade of missteps that
brought the 540-year-old lender to its knees.  Monte Paschi’s Italian owner, a foundation by the same
name, once lavished 2 billion euros ($2.5 billion) on art,
science and culture in Siena, located 240 kilometers north of
 Rome , and helped expand its airport. Former Chairman  Giuseppe Mussari , who stepped down in April, spent 9 billion euros in
2007 to acquire rival Banca Antonveneta SpA, a price that
exceeded Monte Paschi’s own market value. A losing 27 billion-
euro bet on  Italy ’s sovereign bonds followed.  Mussari is now head of the  Italian Banking Association ,
representing the nation’s 699 banks.  Shareholder Gianni Acciughi, 60, who took early retirement
from Monte Paschi in 2009, was scathing about the management
style of the time. They were working on “slides and reports and
not on reality,” he says.  Beef Brisket  Acciughi turned up at the  shareholders’ meeting  in Siena on
Oct. 9 with his 25,000 shares. At 20.3 cents apiece, they’d net
him just over 5,000 euros today, an eighth of what they were
worth in September 2008, the month Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
pushed the global economy into financial crisis.  “We used to get Tuscan beef brisket and the local hand-
made ‘Pici’ pasta on China plates, along with award-winning
wines in fine crystal glasses,” Acciughi said by telephone from
his home in the city. “This year I had to go out to buy a slice
of pizza because I only found crumbs of sandwiches.”  Profumo, speaking at the meeting, told shareholders the
lunch symbolized the new diet the bank is on.  Profumo and Viola are cutting 4,600 of the bank’s 31,170
staff by 2015 and closing 400 branches as part of a rescue plan.
They’re now asking the Italian government to lend them 3.4
billion euros, the second bailout in three years. The deal is
currently under European antitrust regulator scrutiny.  “The financial assets, the inability to value the risks
correctly, that was the biggest mistake,” Viola, 54, said in an
interview at Monte Paschi’s headquarters on Nov. 6. “We have to
clean things up and turn the bank into an engine of renewal.”  Tuscan Art  Monte Paschi’s offices are based at the 12th-century
“Palazzo Salimbeni,” a neo-gothic landmark it owns in Siena’s
historic center. The palace is home to paintings and sculpture
spanning five centuries of Tuscan art, including works by Il
Sassetta, Pietro Lorenzetti and Beccafumi.  Monte Paschi’s biggest shareholder is Fondazione Monte
Paschi, a non-profit entity set up in 1995. Pressure on Monte
Paschi’s finances is forcing the Fondazione to break with
traditions such as appointing managers from within the bank and
its own directors to run operations.  Profumo, 55, hired in April when Mussari stepped down, was
CEO of  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  for 13 years. Viola, who had arrived at
Monte Paschi three months earlier, previously ran two  Italian
cooperative banks  in northern Italy focused on retail and
corporate clients.  Tough Economy  Profumo and Viola’s job of turning the bank around is being
made harder by a slump in Italy’s 1.6 trillion-euro economy,
where the jobless rate is 10.8 percent and households and
businesses are defaulting on loans in increasing numbers. Monte
Paschi’s focus on local tradesmen and mortgage financing means
asset quality deteriorated at a faster pace than peers.  In its  third-quarter earnings  on Nov. 13, Monte Paschi made
a loss of 47.4 million euros. Nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg expected a profit of 103.4 million euros. Provisions
for bad debt almost doubled.  The bank’s ratio of non-performing loans to total lending
was 12 percent in September, greater than UniCredit’s 8.3
percent and the 7.3 percent of  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s two
biggest banks, according to calculations based on the lenders’
earnings statements.  Monte Paschi’s commercial loans exceed its deposits by 30
percent and that’s “unsustainable,” Profumo told reporters in
Milan on Oct. 9.  The stock fell 2.2 percent to 19.81 cents, valuing the firm
at 2.3 billion euros as of 12:20 p.m. in Milan. Monte Paschi’s
shares have fallen 85 percent since Jan. 1, 2009, compared with
a 2 percent decline in the 38-member  Bloomberg Banks and
Financial Services Index .  Culture Change  “The biggest challenge for the pair is to eradicate bad
habits and change the bank’s culture that is so deeply rooted,”
Marco Elser, a partner at investment bank Advicorp Plc in Rome,
said in an interview. “You can’t ride two horses at same time.
Paschi should have made a choice between the past and the
future, its hybrid behavior just brought it to disaster.”  Monte Paschi has disposed of assets this year, including
its north Italian unit Biverbanca, and is in talks to sell its
leasing business to an “industrial partner,” Viola said in the
interview.  In June, Profumo and Viola presented their plan to turn the
bank around, saying revenue would contract  1 percent through
2015 .  The two men are seasoned Italian bankers. Profumo led a $60
billion expansion of UniCredit into central and eastern  Europe 
that helped it become the largest lender in the region and
Italy’s biggest by assets.  The expansion, however, meant UniCredit was short of
capital when confidence in the finance industry collapsed in
2008. Profumo was forced to resign in September 2010 after
turning to investors for extra money twice in 18 months.  Viola joined Monte Paschi after spending more than 20 years
as CEO of lenders including  Banca Popolare dell’Emilia Romagna
Scarl  and  Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl .  Turnaround  “They are on the right track for a turnaround, focusing on
costs and capital,” Marco Giorgino, a professor of finance at
MIP Politecnico di Milano university, said in a phone interview.
“Their competences are among the best in Italy and can help
attract investors.”  The pair not only have to bolster the bank’s finances, but
also deal with officials in Siena who are used to having sway
over how the bank is run and by whom.  While Monte Paschi became a listed company in 1999,
 Fondazione Monte Paschi (BMPS)  is partly run by the region’s
politicians. The foundation traditionally kept half the bank’s
dividends for itself to fund local philanthropic programs.  ‘Grip on Power’  “That level of control via a big stake, in retrospect
looks like a mistake,” Gabriello Mancini, chairman of the
Fondazione Monte Paschi, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “The city and province of Siena traditionally issued
guidelines on board nominees with the goal of maintaining their
grip on power.”  Fondazione Monte Paschi is among Italy’s 88 regional
foundations created 20 years ago when the charitable arms of
savings banks were split from lending operations to help pave
the way for their sale by the government.  It was the only institution of its kind to have a majority
stake in a listed bank until debt forced it to reduce its
holding earlier this year. In 2010, it gave  10.7 million euros 
to the Province of Siena, according to a statement at the time.  “They milked Monte Paschi for what it was worth,” Guido
Antolini, a member of Associazione di Piccoli Azionisti Azione
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena, an association of Monte
Paschi’s small investors, said in an interview by telephone. “A
strategy led by a foundation whose interests were tied to
politics and local interests just couldn’t work.”  ‘Making History’  To its critics, Monte Paschi’s board caused the financial
disaster that erupted when it tried to expand the bank beyond
Siena.  Speaking of Monte Paschi’s acquisition of Banca Antonveneta
five years ago, Mussari said at the time that he was “making
history.”  Monte Paschi’s shares fell as much as 15 percent that day
and never recovered.  The price Monte Paschi paid  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  for
Antonveneta, based near  Venice , was 36 percent more than the
Spanish lender had paid for it just two months previously. Monte
Paschi was forced to write down 4.5 billion euros of
Antonveneta’s value last year as part of its restructuring plan.  “Monte Paschi’s problems were directly linked to the
Antonveneta purchase,” said Flavio Piccolomini, CEO of the
southern and central Europe division of Marsh Inc., a U.S.
insurance broker, and member of a family prominent in Siena
since the start of the 13th century.  Prosecutors in the city are probing allegations of market
manipulation and obstruction of regulatory activity surrounding
Antonveneta’s purchase.  Paschi’s Influence  Monte Paschi’s influence is felt throughout the city of
Siena, home to 55,000 people.  The city’s most prominent event is the Palio di Siena, a
horse race held twice a year since the 17th century around the
central Piazza del Campo square. The balcony of Palazzo
Sansedoni, a historic building owned by Fondazione Monte Paschi,
offers perhaps the best view of the proceedings.  Ten riders dressed in the colors of the contrade, or city
districts of Siena, ride horses bareback for three laps of the
square. The race, which lasts less than two minutes, is preceded
by months of preparation and a medieval parade with grooms,
trumpeters, musicians and flag-wavers.  Mussari’s own horse, seven-year-old Gia del Menir, won the
event in 2008.  Basketball Team  Monte Paschi sponsors Siena’s professional soccer club and
the basketball team. It’s invested in local businesses such as
an expansion of the city’s airport.  In 2010, Monte Paschi bought a 19 percent stake in
Aeroporto di Siena SpA to help finance an international
terminal. Mussari and a former member of the Fondazione are
among suspects that city prosecutors say manipulated the
airport’s sale by the state in 2007.  Mussari denied any involvement when the probe was announced
in 2010. He didn’t respond to emails sent to his personal
account or calls to the Italian Banking Associations’
headquarters in Rome for this story.  In January 2011, Mussari led Monte Paschi into the fashion
business, starting a clothing line called “ 1472 .” The brand,
still in existence today, is named after the year of Monte
Paschi’s founding. Products also include Tuscan olive oil and
local truffles.  Bet on Debt  In 2009, at a time when banks around the world were
starting to emerge from the post-Lehman credit crunch, Monte
Paschi made its ill-fated bet on Italian sovereign debt.  The bank tripled its holdings of the bonds to 15 billion
euros from 5 billion euros and by 2011 the total was 25 billion
euros. The bank still holds 22 billion euros of the bonds, with
an average 10-year maturity, though may sell some should its
losses be erased, Viola said in the interview.  Ten-year Italian government debt yielded 4.14 percent in
December 2009. Two years later, the yield peaked at 7.26
percent. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s bond-
buying program has helped push yields down to 4.89 percent.  In the second-round of stress tests by the European Banking
Authority last year, Monte Paschi had a capital shortfall of 3.3
billion euros due to its Italian bond holdings.  At the end of the second quarter, the nominal value of the
bonds was equal to almost four times the bank’s assets,
excluding the value of its brands and know-how, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The debt Intesa Sanpaolo held was
worth 47 percent more than its tangible assets and UniCredit’s
was equal to 84 percent.  Viola now says the new management’s commitment to cost-
cutting and responsible banking means Monte Paschi’s culture is
changing, and with it the lender’s financial future.  “People have started to understand this year that the bank
needs to be managed differently, as a listed company, without
outside influence,” he said. “All decisions are now taken free
of political influence and we’re focused on the core business to
improve the capital position, liquidity and profitability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  