-- Monti Faces Early Election Threat as Berlusconi Party Rebels
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-11-16T14:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/monti-faces-threat-of-early-election-as-berlusconi-party-rebels.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
faces a deadline today to reverse his plan to separate regional
and national voting or risk a rebellion by his supporters that
could force early elections.  Former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s People of Liberty
Party, which supports the premier’s non-elected government, has
demanded Monti reverse his position favoring regional ballots in
February with the national elections to follow in April. The
party called for Monti to act by today.  The government failed to make a recommendation at a meeting
of Monti’s Cabinet today in Rome. Monti will meet with Italian
President Giorgio Napolitano, who has the power to set the
elections, this afternoon to discuss the voting, Berlusconi told
reporters today.  Monti’s coalition of rivals is coming apart as Berlusconi
and his backers, the most powerful political force in  Italy  over
the last two decades, sink in opinion polls. People of Liberty,
or PDL, has been beset by corruption scandals among regional
members and weakened by its support of Monti’s tax increases and
budget cuts. The party had about 15 percent backing in an SWG
Institute poll today for state-broadcaster RAI, down from 25
percent in April.  “This is really an issue of life or death for the PDL,”
said Giovanni Orsina a professor at Luiss Guido Carli University
in Rome. “They could cut the oxygen to the government, and then
run an election campaign against” Monti’s policies, he said.  Montezemolo’s Effort  The flap comes as pressure mounts on Monti to participate
in the elections. Ferrari SpA Chairman Luca Cordero di
Montezemolo and the former head of Italy’s business lobby
Confindustria, will announce a new political movement  tomorrow 
in  Rome  that may field candidates in the election on a pro-Monti
platform. Leaders have lobbied Monti to participate.  “We have spoken to him, but we are not pressuring him and
we won’t,” Andrea Olivero, president of the Italian Christian
workers association known as Acli, who is one of the leaders of
Montezemolo’s political organization, said in an interview with
Sky TG24. “It will be up to him to decide in what way to
continue.”  Monti has said that he does not intend to run in the
election, though reiterated that he is prepared to stay on
should the vote produce a hung parliament.  Draining Support  Montezemolo’s new political movement could further drain
support for the country’s other parties. The PDL’s slump in
opinion polls has strengthened the position of its coalition
partner and long-time rival, Italy’s  Democratic Party , and
provided a boost to the anti-austerity movement of comic-turned-
politician Beppe Grillo. Today’s poll showed that a pro-Monti
list would initially be backed by 8.5 percent of voters, before
potential alliances with other pro-Monti parties that could
expand its support.  With a Monti list on offer, the Democratic Party, or PD,
had 25 percent support in the SWG poll, down from 26.2 without
the list. Grillo’s 5 Star Movement slips to 18.5 percent with
the Monti list from 20.5 percent without. Still, the same poll
indicated that 62 percent of voters don’t want Monti to serve
another term.  The Monti administration recommended holding votes for
Lazio and Lombardy, home to Rome and Milan respectively, on Feb.
11-12 after corruption investigations toppled the PDL-backed
governments in both regions. PDL General Secretary Angelino Alfano, who said on Nov. 14 that the government had until today
“to correct this colossal error,” of holding the regional and
national votes at different times was less strident yesterday,
saying the party would watch for the government’s response and
evaluate its options.  Combining Vote  The government may opt to combine the regional and national
vote and hold the elections in March,  Corriere della Sera 
reported today, without citing sources.  “It seems unlikely to us that Alfano and the PDL are
really serious about bringing down the government,” said Peter
Ceretti an analyst at Eurasia Group in  New York . Putting an
early end to Monti’s term “would obviously prompt a negative
market reaction and the public would take note of this,”
Ceretti said.  The dispute on the timing of the vote may have more to do
with the parties’ concerns of a poor showing in the regional
election before having to campaign nationally, said  Roberto D’Alimonte , a professor of politics at Luiss University.
Grillo’s 5 Star has gained momentum this year and was the most
voted party in Sicily’s regional elections last month.  “A defeat in the regional elections in Lazio and Lombardy
would not help, to say the least, in the national campaign,”
D’Alimonte said.  Election Law  An early vote might also be conditioned on whether the
parties, who have been in talks for almost a year, can reach an
agreement on revamping Italy’s election law, known as the
Porcellum, or pigsty. All the main parties are seeking to change
the law to make it easier for a party or coalition to win a
working majority in Parliament, though they are divided on what
new rules should look like.  “Voting in February would also mean voting with the
Porcellum, which would make all parties look bad. And that’s
going to favor potentially Grillo,” said Ceretti.  PD General Secretary Pier Luigi Bersani, who attended the
conference yesterday with Alfano and Casini, opposed bringing
Monti’s term to an early end.  “Political elections will take place at the natural end,
unless the president of the republic and the premier reflect
upon it differently, which I think would be linked to passing a
new election law,” Bersani said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  