-- OSI Systems Falls After Hearing on Naked-Image Scanners
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-11-15T23:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/osi-systems-falls-after-hearing-on-naked-image-scanners.html
OSI Systems Inc. (OSIS)  fell the most in
more than 15 years after a U.S. lawmaker said tests may have
been falsified on software intended to stop the company’s
airport body-scanning machines from recording graphic images of
travelers.  OSI’s Rapiscan Systems unit, one of two suppliers of
scanners used for U.S. airport security screening, “may have
attempted to defraud the government by knowingly manipulating an
operational test,” Representative Mike Rogers, chairman of the
House Transportation Security Subcommittee, said in a Nov. 13
letter to Transportation Security Administration chief  John Pistole .  OSI, in a statement, said testimony to a hearing held by
Rogers’s subcommittee today shows “that this was at all times a
government-controlled test” and that the company “could not
have manipulated” any of the data.  “At no time did Rapiscan Systems falsify test data or
engage in any fraudulent conduct,” OSI Chief Executive Officer
 Deepak Chopra  said in today’s statement. “We take the matter
very seriously and are fully cooperating with the TSA during
this process.”  OSI fell $21.40, or 28 percent, to $54.89 on the  Nasdaq 
Stock Market, the Hawthorne, California-based company’s biggest
one-day drop  since  October 1997 and Nasdaq’s biggest percentage
decline today. Almost 4.9 million shares changed hands, 44 times
the three-month daily average.  John Sanders, assistant administrator for the TSA’s office
of security capabilities, said at the House hearing that the
agency doesn’t have evidence that tests on the machines were
manipulated.  “At this point we don’t know what has occurred,” Sanders
said. “We are in contact with the vendor. We are working with
them to get to the bottom of it.”  Underwear Bomber  The TSA accelerated the use of advanced scanners in 2010,
following the Dec. 25, 2009, attempt by Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab to blow up a Northwest Airlines flight by igniting
explosives in his underpants. It’s used two vendors: Rapiscan,
whose backscatter machines use a form of X-rays, and  L-3
Communications Holdings Inc., (LLL)  which features another imaging
technology known as millimeter-wave.  Airline passengers were offended by the revealing images,
including those of children and the elderly, and the TSA moved
its screens to separate rooms away from the checkpoints so the
scans couldn’t be seen by the public. If TSA agents spot an
image that looks like a weapon or an explosive, they communicate
by radio with screeners at the security lines about where to
search.  ‘Strip Search’  The Electronic Privacy Information Center sued the agency,
calling use of the machines the equivalent of a “physically
invasive strip search.”  Rapiscan has been trying, without success, to write
software that would display a generic image. L-3 has been able
to produce such software.  TSA has said passengers who don’t want to go through the
scanners can opt for a pat-down instead. That option has also
generated criticism from the public and members of Congress as
being excessively invasive.  The European Union banned backscatter machines in November
2011, citing health risks from low doses of radiation. TSA says
the machines expose passengers to less radiation than they
receive from the atmosphere during a flight.  If wrongdoing is proven on the government contracts,
Rapiscan could face fines, prison terms and a ban on government
contracting, said Dan Gordon, former head of federal procurement
for President  Barack Obama ’s administration.  ‘Incredibly Serious’  “Fake test results are incredibly serious,” said Gordon,
now a dean at George Washington University Law School in
Washington. “Every false statement is a criminal act, sending
someone in that company to jail.”  Rogers said his committee received a tip alleging that
tests were faked. While Rogers’ letter doesn’t identify the
company, his spokeswoman, Shea Snider, confirmed in an e-mail
that the lawmaker was referring to Rapiscan.  TSA relied on a third-party vendor rather than the company
to verify the technology, so the agency may be attempting to
find a scapegoat for a poorly managed program, Rogers said at
today’s hearing.  The Alabama Republican, who has oversight of TSA
operations, said the agency first indicated it was moving
Rapiscan machines to smaller airports, then couldn’t produce a
list of airports. The agency is moving 91 units worth $14
million to a warehouse instead of redeploying them, Rogers said.  The TSA has 174 backscatter machines,  David Castelveter , a
TSA spokesman, said.  ‘Transparency Problem’  “It appears we not only have a technology problem, but a
significant transparency problem on our hands,” Rogers said.  The TSA intends to keep the machines in a warehouse until
the privacy-protection software works, John Sanders, assistant
administrator for the agency’s office of security capabilities,
said at the hearing.  TSA has spent about $40 million on backscatter machines to
date, Sanders said. It has spent about $100 million on 600
millimeter-wave machines.  The agency awarded a September contract to three companies
for the next generation of advanced-imaging scanner: L-3,
 American Science & Engineering Inc. (ASEI)  and  Smiths Group Plc. (SMIN)  All
future machines will come pre-equipped with privacy software,
Sanders said.  Peter Kant, an executive vice president with the company,
said Rapiscan received a so-called show-cause letter from the
TSA on Nov. 9 seeking detailed information about the testing of
technology used in the machines.  Passenger Safety  Rapiscan became aware of an issue related to software under
development months ago and promptly notified the TSA, Kant said
in an interview yesterday. The company is fully cooperating with
the agency’s investigation, which doesn’t relate to software
that detects anomalies on passengers’ bodies, Kant said.
Passenger safety was never affected, he said.  Show-cause letters are sent when the government believes a
contractor isn’t complying with terms, said Gordon, the former
federal procurement administrator. It’s a last chance for the
company to demonstrate it hasn’t violated the contract, he said.  Show-cause letters are rare because most contractors try
hard to meet the government’s requirements, Gordon said.
Companies that default on contracts may have a difficult time
winning business again from that agency or other parts of the
government, he said.  Machines Moved  The TSA recently said it was relocating Rapiscan machines
from seven larger, busier airports to smaller ones.  The change related to extra time it takes for passengers to
be scanned with the backscatter machines, not any doubts about
whether the technology works, Pistole told reporters at a news
conference in  Washington  Nov. 13. Backscatter machines require
staff in a separate room to look at the images and radio back to
an officer at the checkpoint if extra screening is needed, he
said.  TSA believes backscatter technology is still effective in
finding non-metallic objects, Pistole said.  “We originally went with two companies to help drive
competition and try to get to the next level of detection with
the best possible performance,” Pistole said. “We’re still
committed to doing that.”  TSA has contracted for increasing levels of detection and
other efficiency and privacy enhancements, Castelveter said in a
statement yesterday.  “We fully expect our vendors to deliver on their
commitments, and are working with them to that end within the
federal contracting process,” Castelveter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  