-- Hospital Pharmacists Want Better Oversight of Drug Compounders
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-11-15T14:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/hospital-pharmacists-want-better-oversight-of-drug-compounders.html
Hospital pharmacists are backing a
call by the Food and Drug Administration for added regulation 
of compounding companies after a meningitis outbreak, calling it
a “gray area” with serious implications.  FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg’s request for greater
federal power to inspect compounding companies and test their
medicines yesterday drew skepticism from House Republicans
during a subcommittee hearing yesterday on the outbreak, which
has infected 438 people and killed 32. The statement by the
hospital pharmacists came in prepared remarks for a probe by the
Democratic-controlled U.S. Senate.  “The distinction between traditional pharmacy compounding
and manufacturing appears to be a regulatory gray area between
state boards of pharmacy and FDA,” Kasey Thompson, vice
president of policy for the American Society of Health-System
Pharmacists, said in prepared testimony. “As we have seen,
however, the implications of this gray area are serious.”  Both houses of Congress are weighing whether to expand the
FDA’s powers over compounders after tainted vials of a pain-
killing steroid from New England Compounding Pharmacy Inc. were
linked to the meningitis infections. Yesterday’s hearing in the
House was contentious for Hamburg; she’ll face similar questions
in the Senate panel hearing today.  House lawmakers were skeptical yesterday when Hamburg asked
for additional authority. The International Academy of
Compounding Pharmacists, the industry’s main lobbying group,
will tell the Senate panel today that no oversight change was
needed, according to prepared remarks.  ‘Same Laws’  “A pharmacy engaged in manufacturing is subject to the same
laws, inspections, restrictions, and penalties as a commercial
drug manufacturer,” David Miller, the group’s chief executive
officer, said in prepared remarks.  House lawmakers asked Hamburg yesterday during a
contentious hearing why her agency hadn’t done more to rein in
New England Compounding Pharmacy, known as NECC, when it had the
chance. Inspection reports show that the risk of illness from
drugs produced at the Framingham, Massachusetts-based company
was known by the FDA as early as 2002.  The FDA sent NECC a  warning letter  in 2006 in which the
agency said it could shut down the business if the pharmacy
failed to correct business practices that involved copying
certain drugs without permission. House lawmakers were visibly
frustrated by Hamburg’s characterization of her agency’s
authority as complex to explain why the FDA didn’t shutter NECC
then.  Hamburg is scheduled to speak again before the Senate
panel, as is Lauren Smith, interim commissioner of the
Massachusetts Department of Public Health.  Records Inspection  Compounding pharmacies are supposed to mix drugs based on
individual patient prescriptions for treatments that commercial
manufacturers don’t make available. Massachusetts regulators
have moved to permanently revoke the license of NECC, citing
business practices that may have exceeded the scale and scope
that is typically allowed.  The company had suspended operations Oct. 3 and recalled
17,676 doses of the steroid methylprednisolone acetate after
being linked to meningitis cases. NECC co-owner Barry Cadden
appeared at yesterday’s hearing and declined to answer questions
from lawmakers, citing his constitutional rights. He’s listed as
a  witness  for today’s hearing.  Legislation Sought  Hamburg asked Congress yesterday to pass legislation
granting the FDA the ability to inspect the records of
compounding pharmacies and test their drugs and require those
that operate on a larger scale by producing treatments in
anticipation of prescriptions to register with the FDA. She also
asked that compounding pharmacies that practice outside the
traditional scope be required to adhere to the agency’s
standards for manufacturing.  Hospital pharmacists weren’t specific about what type of
FDA regulation they would support. Miller, with the compounders’
lobbying group, on the other hand, said he wouldn’t support
registration requirements and that the agency already had the
other powers it sought when pharmacies act like manufacturers.  House Republicans didn’t show much interest yesterday in
legislation also claiming the FDA had the authority it needed to
shut NECC down.  “We might not get legislation,” Representative Cliff Stearns, the Florida Republican who leads the House subcommittee
that held the hearing yesterday “The Republicans control the
House. The Democrats control the Senate. It will be very
difficult.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  