-- Hostess Says It Will Liquidate If Strikers Don’t Return
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-11-15T18:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/hostess-says-it-will-liquidate-if-strikers-don-t-return.html
Hostess Brands Inc., the maker of
Wonder bread and Twinkies, said it will shut down and liquidate
unless enough members of its striking bakery workers’ union
return to work today to resume normal operations.  The  Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain
Millers International Union  went on strike Nov. 9 after a
bankruptcy judge in White Plains, New York, imposed contract
concessions that 92 percent of the union’s workers rejected.  “We don’t have the financial wherewithal, nor the
manpower, to sustain operations through a strike,” Chief
Executive Officer Gregory Rayburn said today in an interview
with  Betty Liu  on ‘In The Loop’ on Bloomberg Television.  The bakery union president issued a statement repeating
earlier demands.  “I am sure that our members would be agreeable to return
to work as soon as the company rescinds the implementation of
the horrendous wage and benefit reductions, including pension,
and the restoration of the cuts that have already taken place,”
Union President Frank Hurt said.  Hostess closed three of its 36 plants permanently Nov. 12,
blaming the strike. About 13 plants are operating
“unsustainably” because of worker shortages, Hostess’s Rayburn
said. The bakers’ union has “made no demands, and in fact they
stopped returning our calls about a month ago,” he said.  Nov. 20 Shutdown  Rayburn said yesterday Hostess will file court papers
tomorrow asking for authorization to shut the company down
entirely on Nov. 20. It will ask the judge to hold a liquidation
hearing Nov. 19, he said.  The International Brotherhood of Teamsters said today in a
 statement  that the bakery union’s members should decide whether
to return to work.  “A vote of its Hostess members by secret ballot should be
held to determine if the workers want to continue their strike
of the company and force it into liquidation,” the Teamsters
said in the statement, posted on the union website.  Bakery union leaders are “putting Teamster members in a
horrible position -- asking them to support a strike that will
put them out of a job when they haven’t even asked all their
members to go on strike,” the Teamsters said.  Liquidation would mean the loss of 18,000 jobs, Rayburn
said. It’s now up to the bakery workers “to decide if they want
to call off the strike and save the company, or cause massive
financial harm to thousands of employees and their families,”
Rayburn said in a statement.  Teamster Concessions  The Teamsters Union voted to accept a new contract with
8 percent in wage concessions and 17 percent in benefit
reductions.  A reorganization plan filed in the court last month can’t
be implemented without selling some assets or obtaining new
financing. The Teamsters and the bakery workers’ union made
voluntary concessions in the first Chapter 11 reorganization,
which began in 2004.  Hostess, based in Irving,  Texas , filed under Chapter 11 for
a second time in January, listing assets of $982 million against
liabilities totaling $1.43 billion.  The new case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (White Plains).
The prior bankruptcy was In re Interstate Bakeries Corp., 04-
45814, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District of  Missouri 
(Kansas City).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Rochelle in New York
at   wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 