-- Panetta Says General Allen E-Mail Probe Necessary to Find Facts
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-11-15T10:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/panetta-says-general-allen-e-mail-probe-necessary-to-find-facts.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
said the Pentagon was justified in investigating e-mails sent by
Marine Corps General John R. Allen to a Florida woman even as
the U.S.’ top officer today said Allen may still be promoted to
head NATO’s military forces.  “I thought it was important to refer” the Allen case to
the inspector general “in order to determine what the facts are
here,” Panetta said at briefing in Bangkok where he’s visiting.  Panetta directed the Pentagon inspector general to
investigate the case when the  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
notified the department about e-mails between Allen, who heads
allied forces in  Afghanistan , and Jill Kelley, the Florida woman
whose complaints led to CIA director David Petraeus’s
resignation.  Earlier today General Martin Dempsey, the chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, told  American Forces Press Service  that
Allen’s nomination to serve as NATO Supreme Allied Commander is
not in danger.  “We have John Allen scheduled to become (European Command)
commander, and I wouldn’t want him to miss that opportunity
unless there is reason for that to happen,” the press service,
which is an arm of the U.S. military, quoted Dempsey as saying.
“I don’t see that at this point, but I see this investigation
and how long it could take affecting that.”  President  Barack Obama  has nominated Allen to become the
head of the U.S. European Command as well as head of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization’s military forces. Panetta has
asked Congress to delay Allen’s confirmation until the probe is
completed. Obama has said he has “faith in General Allen.”  ‘Tremendous Confidence’  Asked if the e-mails between Allen and Kelley were sexually
explicit in nature, Panetta said, “I don’t want to characterize
the communication, and I don’t want to do anything that” will
affect the probe. “I’ve tremendous confidence in General Allen
and in his ability and his leadership. I don’t think anyone
ought to jump to conclusions.”  Allen “intends to fully cooperate” with the inspector
general’s investigation and has directed his staff to do so as
well, according to a statement from his lawyer, Marine Colonel
John Baker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  