-- Patriot to End Mountaintop Removal, Sierra Club Says
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-11-15T21:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/patriot-to-end-mountaintop-removal-sierra-club-says.html
Patriot Coal Corp. (PCXCQ) , the U.S. mining
company that filed for bankruptcy in July, agreed to end
mountaintop removal in Appalachia as part of an accord with
environmental groups, the  Sierra Club  said.  The company will idle a dragline immediately at its
Catenary mining complex in West Virginia following the accord,
the Sierra Club said today in a  statement  on its website. The
St. Louis-based company will also halt a dragline at its Hobet
unit by the end of 2015, according to a court  document  posted on
the Sierra Club website.  Aaron Palash, a spokesman for Patriot who works at public-
relations firm Joele Frank Wilkinson Brimmer & Katcher in  New
York , declined to comment about the settlement.  The Sierra Club is among environmental groups who have
criticized mountaintop removal -- in which the peaks are
stripped of vegetation and soil to allow so-called surface
mining -- for polluting air and water and sickening local
residents.  Patriot also reached agreement with the Ohio Valley
Environmental Coalition and the  West Virginia  Highlands
Conservancy, according to the Sierra Club.  Under the terms of the accord, the company won’t open any
new surface mines or apply for more “large-scale” surface-
mining permits, the Sierra Club said. Patriot also will withdraw
two applications for permits to dump waste from mountaintop
mines into the valleys below, the group said.  ‘Historic Moment’  In return for eventually ending mountaintop removal, the
company gets more time to install equipment at some of its mines
to treat selenium, a potentially polluting byproduct of coal
production, according to the group.  Patriot agreed to reduce annual coal production from
surface mining to 3 million tons by 2018, from 6.5 million in
2014, according to the court document. Patriot sold 31.1 million
tons of coal in 2011, according to company filings. It has mines
in Appalachia, and in  Kentucky  in the so-called Illinois Basin
coal-producing region.  “This is an historic moment for people hardest-hit by
mountaintop removal,”  Michael Brune , executive director of the
Sierra Club, said in the statement. “Tens of thousands of
people have worked tirelessly to put an end to this destructive
process, and today’s agreement is a major step towards ending
this abhorrent form of mining.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  