-- Paulson Cut Hartford Stake After Pushing for Unit Sales
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s ,   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-11-15T14:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/paulson-cut-hartford-financial-gold-fields-last-quarter.html
Billionaire  John Paulson  cut his
hedge fund’s stake in  Hartford (HIG)  Financial Services Group Inc.
after efforts to pressure the insurer to sell businesses failed
to lift the shares above his purchase price  Paulson & Co. held 19.5 million Hartford shares at the end
of the third quarter, down from 31.3 million shares three months
earlier, according to a filing today with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. Hartford, based in the Connecticut city
of the same name, closed the period at $19.44, compared with
$19.12 on Feb. 7, the day before Paulson urged Hartford to “do
something drastic” to boost the stock price.  Hartford Chief Executive Officer  Liam McGee  has focused the
firm on property-casualty coverage, striking deals to sell the
individual life insurance unit, Woodbury Financial Services,
retirement-plan operations and the individual annuities-
distribution business. The company is still working to limit
liabilities from variable annuities. Paulson’s plan was for
Hartford to split into property-casualty and life insurers.  “We were disappointed that management, on the Feb. 8
earnings call, only addressed the potential ‘challenges’ of a
separation,” New York-based Paulson & Co. said in a Feb. 14
regulatory filing. “We believe that you underestimate the
potential value that would be created by a spin.”  McGee is working to revive Hartford after losses on equity-
linked variable annuities led to a bailout in 2009 that was
subsequently repaid. The shares advanced 24 percent this year to
close yesterday at $20.23, after losing 39 percent in 2011.  ‘Financial Flexibility’  “Hartford is taking the necessary actions, as outlined in
March, to position the company for higher returns on equity,
reduced sensitivity to  capital markets , a lower cost of capital
and increased financial flexibility,” McGee said in a September
statement.  Paulson’s stake at the end of the third quarter was about
4.5 percent and he was no longer the largest Hartford
shareholder, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stake
was 8.5 percent, according to a filing in May in which Paulson
said shares were no longer held for the purpose of influencing
control of the company.  Paulson’s firm spent about $927.8 million for an 8.4
percent stake in Hartford, according to the February filing,
meaning shares purchased through then cost an average of about
$24.71, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The insurer traded for
as little as $15.65 and as high as $20.69 in the third quarter.  Gold Fields  The New York-based hedge fund also pared its investment in
 Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  in the third quarter, selling 11.5 million
American depository receipts, according to the filing. Paulson
now holds 6.5 million ADRs valued at $84 million.  Paulson, 56, lost 17 percent this year through October in
his Advantage Plus Fund, which seeks to profit from corporate
events such as takeovers and bankruptcies and uses leverage to
amplify returns. Slumping gold-mining stocks have contributed to
his declines this year.  ADRs of Gold Fields, the fourth-largest producer of the
precious metal, have declined 22 percent this year.  Standard &
Poor’s  downgraded the company’s bonds to below investment grade
today.  Paulson also sold its entire stake in New York-based
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which was valued at $142.9 million. The
hedge fund sold all of its 2.7 million shares of  Baxter
International Inc. (BAX)   Paulson added 8.5 million shares in  Life Technologies
Corp. (LIFE) , bringing his holding to 13.5 million shares valued at
$436.3 million. The Carlsbad, California-based company that
sequences genetics for medical purposes is now the hedge fund’s
fourth-biggest U.S. stock investment by market value.  The securities reported in Paulson’s Form 13F had a total
market value of $12.7 billion as of Sept. 30, the filing shows.
That was up from $12 billion as of June 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  