-- Penn West Shrinking to Grow After Staff Exits
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-11-16T00:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/penn-west-shrinking-to-grow-after-staff-exits.html
Penn West  Petroleum Ltd., the worst
performing oil and natural gas stock among its Canadian peers
this year, may sell more assets and forgo higher output to cut
costs after the ouster of four executives.  The company will be “opportunistic” about selling acreage
outside its primary oil developments, striving to reduce
production costs and meet targets to boost returns, said
Chairman John Brussa. Penn West fired Chief Operating Officer
Hilary Foulkes and three vice presidents on Nov. 6, after
reporting lower third quarter output than analysts’ expected and
reducing its production outlook for 2012.  “We’re going to emphasize our dividend and we may not grow
production,” Brussa said by phone from Calgary on Nov. 12. “We
think we can grow  cash flow  by going from gas to oil.”  The company’s shares have plunged 48 percent this year, the
worst among 16 Canadian oil and gas producers with market values
above C$5 billion ($5 billion), according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Rising costs and concerns the company may be forced
to cut its 10 percent dividend contributed to the decline. The
shares closed down 1 percent at C$10.47 in Toronto, for a market
value of C$5 billion.  “There needed to be a change,” said Vijay Viswanathan,
who manages C$4.5 billion at Mawer Investment Management Ltd. in
Calgary, including Penn West shares. “Now the big ‘if’ is, can
the new management team execute better than before?”  ‘Incrementally Positive’  The executive departures are “incrementally positive” as
Penn West has “great assets but management needs to execute,”
said Viswanathan, who’s not buying more Penn West shares as
prices remain depressed. “The downdraft in the stock is just a
product of investors getting sick of waiting.”  The Penn West board decided the four executives needed to
leave after a review of the company’s production reliability and
costs, Brussa said.  “The board was concerned about our efficiency, both on
operating and bringing production on stream, for at least two
months,” he said, discarding “rumors” he’s heard that the
managers had abandoned the company. “There wasn’t a palace
revolt.”  The company did not provide a reason for her firing, Wendy
Henkelman, previously vice president of treasury, said in a
phone interview from Calgary yesterday. Phone and e-mail
messages left for Foulkes and the other departing executives
were not immediately returned.  Penn West reported a third-quarter loss of C$67 million on
Nov. 2, or 14 cents a share, versus a gain of C$138 million, or
29 cents, a year earlier. The company missed analyst production
estimates, due to lower-than-forecast output tied to delays
bringing facilities online and wet weather.  ‘Operational Excellence’  Penn West Chief Executive Officer Murray Nunns, “a very
talented individual” is staying on. “He is going to be part of
the solution,” Brussa said.  The company appointed David Middleton, Penn West’s
executive vice president of engineering, to lead operations
while it searches for a new COO or senior engineering executive
to replace Foulkes.  The company needs to focus on “operational excellence,”
said Gordon Tait, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets Corp. in
Calgary who rates Penn West the equivalent of a hold.  “Guidance was coming down, they seemed to be missing
production numbers,” Tait said. “It would be a very well-
received shift if their operations proved to be more reliable
and predictable. You’d then see the stock price begin to reflect
that.”  Penn West’s difficulties meeting targets on budget can
partly be blamed on trying to integrate new properties it picked
up during a period of fast growth last decade, Tait said.  Asset Sales  The company increased production about 58 percent to
177,310 barrels a day in 2009 from 2006. Output has declined
since, figures compiled by Bloomberg show.  Penn West needs to shift towards strengthening operations
and exploitation, over exploration, Tait said, telegraphing a
transition Brussa also hinted at.  Penn West announced it would sell C$1.3 billion in assets
producing the equivalent of 12,000 barrels a day outside its
core operating areas by the end of the year, to bring down debt.
The company’s debt totaled C$3.9 billion in the third quarter,
26 percent higher than a year earlier, figures compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The company, which has more than six million acres (2.4
million hectares) across Western  Canada  according to its
website, will contemplate selling more properties, Brussa said.  “We have a number of very key tight oil areas where we’re
probably not going to be sellers but other assets, we’re going
to be sellers,” he said.  Oil Shift  Penn West produces oil from so-called resource play areas
across Western Canada, accessing reserves trapped in non-porous,
or “tight” rock. The company extracts oil by drilling long
wells horizontally underground and pumping a mixture of water,
sand and chemicals down well bores to create fissures in the
rock and force the flow of oil.  “Our strategy is to be on the cusp of the tight oil
revolution in Western Canada,” Brussa said. “We’re the
dominant player in four out of five of the plays.”  Rather than boosting overall output, Penn West is shifting
production so more comes from oil versus gas, to fetch higher
prices.  The company has made “considerable progress” since the
third quarter of 2009 with the shift, boosting the share of its
production that comes from oil to 66 percent and increasing what
it earns for each equivalent barrel of crude by 9.1 percent to
$28.28, Sam La Bell, an analyst at Veritas Investment Research
Corp. in Toronto who rates the company a sell, said in a Nov. 5
note.  Maintain Dividend  The company will be forced to sell more assets after deals
announced close, to improve its balance sheet, said Kam Sandhar,
an analyst at Peters & Co. in Calgary who rates Penn West the
equivalent of a sell.  Penn West has five buy, 11 hold and five sell  ratings  from
analysts.  Penn West’s dividend of 10 percent would “likely” be cut,
in turn, as production goes out the door, Sandhar said in a note
to clients on Nov. 2.  The company, which has a large following among retail
investors, can sustain its dividend with current agreements to
sell assets, Brussa said. Uncertainty has contributed to the
company’s share price decline, he said.  “There’s been all kinds of rumors that we’re going to cut
our dividend, that our program is not sustainable, so you’ve had
a lot of retail investors jump on the basis that they think
they’re getting ahead of a dividend cut,” Brussa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  