-- Penn National Jumps on Breakup Plan to Create Casino REIT
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-11-16T21:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/penn-national-planning-split-to-create-first-casino-focused-reit.html
Penn National Gaming Inc. (PENN) , the
operator of 29 casinos and racetracks, surged to its highest
price since 2008 after announcing plans to split into two public
companies by placing most properties into a new real estate
investment trust.  The shares gained 28 percent to $48.23 at the close, after
the Wyomissing, Pennsylvania-based company said yesterday it
will spin off at least 17 properties into the first casino-
focused REIT. Executives said they would encourage other casino
companies to do the same, sending shares of  MGM Resorts
International (MGM)  and  Pinnacle Entertainment Inc. (PNK)  higher.  Penn National will continue to run most of its casinos and
tracks, according to a  statement . Its investors will receive a
dividend of about $5.35 a share plus stock in the REIT. Other
casino companies will probably consider similar moves to free up
capital, said  Joseph Greff , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst.  “This could be a trend within the gaming sector to
distribute profits on a more tax efficient basis,” New York-
based Greff wrote in an investor note. He rates the shares the
equivalent of buy.  Today’s percentage  jump  in Penn National shares was the
biggest in four years. Pinnacle Entertainment  surged  7.1 percent
to $12.65 and MGM advanced 2.9 percent to $9.64.  Unlock Value  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Peter Carlino will
hold those same positions at the REIT and remain chairman of
Penn National. Tim Wilmott, Penn National’s chief operating
officer, will become CEO of the casino company. Chief Financial
Officer Bill Clifford said on a conference call today that he
would be CFO of one of the two separate companies after
refinancing all debt next year, including tendering for Penn
National’s bonds.  The casino operation will pay the REIT about $450 million a
year in rent, the company said. The split, subject to regulatory
approval, is expected in the second half of 2013, with the REIT
effective in January 2014.  “This process will unlock the tremendous value of our real
estate portfolio,” Carlino said today on a conference call.
“This is just strictly our view of how we can best take the
assets we have and make the most of them.”  Pursue Acquisitions  Carlino, 66, built Penn National via  acquisitions  and
construction from a single horse-racing track near Harrisburg,
 Pennsylvania . REITs, with their primary income from real estate,
don’t pay federal income taxes. They’re required by law to
distribute at least 90 percent of their taxable earnings to
shareholders as dividends.  The split will lower Penn National’s cost of  capital ,
Carlino said today on the conference call. Both the REIT and the
operating company will continue to pursue acquisitions and
developments, and may form partnerships on projects, he said.
The property company can own non-U.S. assets, and may eventually
expand into non-gambling real estate, executives said.  As two entities, Penn National may be able to overcome
regulatory hurdles in some states that limit the number of
casinos owned or operated by a single company, Clifford said.  Separately, Penn National unveiled plans yesterday for a
casino in Philadelphia, making it one of six bidders for the
single license to be awarded by the state Gaming Control Board.
The company seeks to build a $480 million Hollywood Casino near
the city’s sports complex, according to a statement.  Adelson’s Plans  Penn National said it received a private-letter ruling from
the  Internal Revenue Service  related to the split’s tax
treatment. Penn National has completed its work with the IRS and
doesn’t expect to need further approvals, Clifford said on the
call.  Jonathan Litt, founder and chief executive officer of
LandandBuildings, a Greenwich Connecticut-based hedge fund
focused on real estate, released a report in September
suggesting  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  might be worth double its $44 a
share stock price by splitting into separate casino, retail and
hotel companies, taking advantage of REIT structures. The casino
company can grow faster without being attached to real estate,
he said.  Sheldon Adelson , chairman and CEO of Las Vegas-based Sands,
said on a Nov. 1 conference call that he would consider selling
or spinning off the company’s retail properties.  Excluding mortgage REITs, property trusts have raised
record amounts of cash through equity and debt sales in the past
three years as investors seek yields higher than those offered
by U.S. government notes.  REIT Shareholders  Penn National’s REIT shareholders are expected to receive
the property company’s income as an ordinary dividend --
estimated at $2.36 per share, based on 2013 earnings guidance.
The company forecast 2013 profit of $2.62 a share on revenue of
$3.2 billion and adjusted earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization of $905.1 million.  Casinos in  Baton Rouge ,  Louisiana , and Perryville,
 Maryland , will also be owned by the REIT and held in a taxable
subsidiary. Eight other tracks and casinos, including four joint
ventures, will remain owned by Penn National. Two Ohio
racetracks, pending relocation, will become part of the REIT.  Penn National received a settlement from  Fortress
Investment Group LLC (FIG)  and Centerbridge Partners LP after the
private-equity companies abandoned a leveraged buyout in July
2008. The firms paid a $225 million breakup fee and invested
$1.25 billion in interest-free preferred stock.  Fortress, which holds $975 million of the preferred, agreed
to reduce its holdings to facilitate the planned split. The
private-equity firm can exchange its stake for $67 a share, or
14.6 million common shares.  Wells Fargo Securities and Bank of America Merrill Lynch
are serving as financial advisers to Penn National. Wachtell,
Lipton, Rosen & Katz is serving as legal counsel to Penn
National and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is also
advising for tax matters.  (Visit www.pngaming.com to access today’s call.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  