-- Philippine Peso Falls Most in a Month as Oil Climbs; Bonds Gain
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-11-15T08:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/philippine-peso-falls-most-in-a-month-as-oil-climbs-bonds-fall.html
The Philippine peso dropped the most
in almost a month on speculation companies stepped up dollar
purchases to pay for costlier crude-oil imports and inflows from
overseas workers slowed.  Government bonds  rose.  The currency fell for a fourth day, extending a retreat
from a four-year high, after oil rebounded 2.7 percent from a
four-month low of $84.05 a barrel on Nov. 7. Asian currencies
and stocks declined amid speculation U.S. tax increases and
spending cuts due next year, the so-called fiscal cliff, will
hurt the world’s largest economy, raising the prospect of a
global recession.  “There is some corporate demand for dollars, probably
because they want to import more before  oil prices  go higher,”
said Mark Baquiran, a currency trader in  Manila  at  Philippine
Savings Bank. (PSB)  “The dollar’s strength is also due to concern
about the U.S. fiscal cliff.”  The peso weakened 0.3 percent to 41.257 per dollar in
Manila, according to data from Tullett Prebon Plc. That’s the
biggest decline since Oct. 18. It has lost 0.5 percent since
reaching 41.05 on Nov. 8, a level last seen in March 2008. One-
month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used
to price options, was unchanged at 4.70 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Remittances from citizens working abroad rose 5.9 percent
in September from a year earlier, the central bank reported
today after the market closed. That compared with the median
estimate of economists for a 7 percent gain and the 7.6 percent
increase in August.  President  Barack Obama  meets Democratic and Republican
leaders in Congress tomorrow to discuss ways to avoid $607
billion in automatic budget reductions and tax additions set to
take effect in January. Without a compromise, the world’s
largest economy may tip into recession, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  The yield on the 8 percent notes due July 2031 dropped
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.58 percent,
according to Tradition Financial Services. The yield reached a
two-month low of 5.57 percent on Nov. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  