-- Political Gridlock Leaves U.S. Facing Cyber Pearl Harbor
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2012-11-15T05:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/political-gridlock-leaves-u-s-facing-cyber-pearl-harbor.html
There’s almost universal agreement
that the U.S. faces a catastrophic threat from cyber attacks by
terrorists, hackers and spies. Washington policy makers just
don’t seem able to do anything about it.  Even with the consensus about vulnerabilities in U.S.
networks, and with hundreds of billions of dollars at stake,
Congress failed to pass cybersecurity legislation that was four
years in the making and had sponsors from both parties.  The measure succumbed in August amid partisan gridlock and
aggressive lobbying, even though lawmakers had heard warnings
for years about holes in corporate and government systems that
imperil U.S economic and national security.  “Based on my experience, very few people on the Hill get
this,” said Shawn Henry, who stepped down as executive
assistant director of the FBI in April. “You can’t see it,
touch it or taste it, so it’s somehow not real.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
yesterday failed to muster enough votes to revive the measure.
The bill’s demise reveals how partisan bickering, tactical
errors, industry lobbying, conflicting interests, and ignorance
can trump even national security concerns, according to
documents and interviews with advocates and opponents in the
Senate, the administration and the business community.  The legislation’s collapse leaves President  Barack Obama 
with few options, administration officials said in interviews.
One possibility officials have discussed is an executive order
aimed at achieving some of what the legislation could have done
to shore up private-sector networks.  Obama Directive  Last month, Obama signed a separate cybersecurity directive
authorizing the National Security Agency and other military
units to take more aggressive action to defeat attacks on
government and private computer systems.  An Oct. 4 Bloomberg Government study by Afzal Bari and
Jason Wilson concluded that any future order from Obama likely
would promote almost real-time monitoring of crucial systems,
which “may require companies to provide network information
through systems connected to the federal government.”  “We are still going to need legislation to do the things
that we think need to be done,” White House Cybersecurity
Coordinator Michael Daniel said in an interview. “An executive
order is not an adequate substitute.”  All sides concede that they made mistakes that contributed
to the failure of the bill. The Senate measure was championed by
Senators  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent who is
retiring, and  Susan Collins , a Maine Republican.  Senate Bill  The White House focused its efforts on a gridlocked Senate
rather than on the Republican-controlled House, which had passed
several less ambitious cybersecurity bills.  Congressional Democrats sought to give the Department of
Homeland Security ill-defined powers to set new cybersecurity
standards and failed to come up with credible estimates of what
those standards would cost.  Many Senate Republicans took their cues from the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce and businesses that framed the debate not as
a matter of national security, but rather as a battle between
free enterprise and an overreaching government, according to
documents and descriptions of lobbying efforts.  The Senate bill “would have created a new bureaucracy that
would have slowed down the process and forced companies to focus
on compliance with new government mandates that would not insure
better and faster notifications of cyber threats,”  Kay Bailey Hutchison  of  Texas , the top Republican on the Senate Commerce
Committee who also is retiring, said in an e-mail.  Liability Suits  Many companies also feared that regulation would expose
them to a greater risk of shareholder liability suits in the
event of an attack, an issue compounded by the fact that it’s
easier to estimate the cost of stiffer defenses than to guess
the price of a possible attack, said congressional aides who
worked on the Lieberman-Collins bill and discussed it on
condition of anonymity.  Add to those uncertainties the fact that no bill can offer
perfect protection, said the White House’s Daniel.  “Currently, bad actors don’t have to be sophisticated to
cause significant consequences,” he said. “We want the bad
actors to not be able to succeed as easily,” even though that’s
“not going to stop them from trying.”  The latest warning about the peril of terrorist-led cyber
attacks came yesterday from the  National Academy of Sciences ,
which cautioned in a report that an assault on the U.S. power
grid could leave millions of people in the dark for months and
cause billions of dollars in damage.  Latest Warning  The report is the latest in a long string of alarms about
the vulnerability of the nation’s Internet backbone, underscored
by constant probes and attacks on government, banking and other
 computer networks . The next attack, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said in an Oct. 11 speech, could derail passenger
trains, spill toxic chemicals or cause widespread blackouts.  “The collective result of these kinds of attacks could be
a cyber Pearl Harbor; an attack that would cause physical
destruction and the loss of life,” Panetta said. “In fact, it
would paralyze and shock the nation.”  Congress’s failure to pass a cybersecurity bill has left
the U.S. unprepared and ill-equipped to cope with an Internet
assault on the computer networks that control much of the
nation’s physical and financial nervous system, Panetta said.  Almost from the beginning, though, congressional aides said
in interviews, the Lieberman-Collins bill was hampered by the
secrecy that blankets government cyber programs and the
difficulty in grasping the technology behind attacks and
defenses. Only a handful of lawmakers understood the threat,
people who briefed them regularly said.  Simulated Attack  The government’s top cybersecurity officials staged a
classified demonstration for dozens of senators in March in an
effort to change that. They simulated a cyber attack that
paralyzed  New York  City’s power grid, causing multiple deaths
and billions of dollars in damage, two officials said.  While government researchers had identified a vulnerability
in the nation’s electrical grid years ago, lawmakers said during
a congressional hearing in 2008 that no U.S. or state agency
could compel power companies to act.  “That was really the key moment,” said Jacob Olcott, a
former Democratic staffer on the Senate Commerce Committee and a
cybersecurity specialist. “That’s when we realized that there
was a gap in the existing regulatory authority, and the private
sector was doing little to improve security on its own.”  DHS Targeted  The bill Lieberman and Collins introduced in February
granted that authority to the Homeland Security Department,
which handles civilian cybersecurity issues. The choice of DHS,
already under fire for its airport-screening procedures, was an
immediate target for Republicans.  Under the bill, DHS would regulate computer systems that
could cause mass casualties or significant economic damage if
they were manipulated or destroyed. Those vulnerable points
would be identified by a public-private review process.  In interviews, several Republican aides said the review
process could take years, and the bill would leave DHS free to
define the limits of its own power.  “When before have we given an agency regulatory authority
without defining who would be regulated?” said  Brian Rogers , a
spokesman for Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican.  Another business concern, echoed by Senate Republicans, was
that making DHS the switchboard for exchanging threat reports
would disrupt existing information-sharing arrangements, for
example between defense and technology firms and the NSA.  Business Opposition  Advocates of new federal standards found themselves facing
opponents that included the Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s
largest business lobby,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ) , as well as energy companies and electric utilities.  Private industry, business lobbyists argued, could adapt to
changing cyber threats faster than government could, and new
federal standards would curb their freedom to innovate.  The Lieberman-Collins bill’s proposed standards also were
so vague, Senate Republican staffers said, that the nonpartisan
 Congressional Budget Office  was unable to score the legislation.  “Until someone can argue both the national security and
the economic parts of it, you’re going to have these dividing
forces,” Melissa Hathaway, a White House cyber official in the
Bush and Obama administrations who left in 2009, said in an
interview. “Most likely, big industry is going to win because
at the end of the day our economy is still in trouble.”  Situation Room  Administration officials brought Senate staffers from both
parties to the White House Situation Room for cybersecurity
briefings in 2011. The goal, said an official familiar with the
effort, was to create a sense of urgency in the room where the
president had monitored the raid that killed  Osama bin Laden .  By this summer, though, business and Republican opposition
to new federal standards had hardened. With weeks to go before
the Senate’s summer recess, the measure’s sponsors diluted their
proposal on July 19 to attract more Republican support.  The revised bill made infrastructure standards voluntary
and offered incentives such as liability protection and
expedited government security clearances. The new standards
would be overseen not by DHS but by a multi-agency council.  Responding to criticism from privacy and civil-liberties
advocates, though, the new bill still put DHS, a civilian
agency, in charge of the information-sharing provisions.  The compromise didn’t win a single Republican vote.  “The lobbyists smelled blood in the water,” said Olcott,
now a principal at Good Harbor Consulting LLC, a security-risk
firm based in Arlington, Virginia.  Last-Ditch Appeal  The administration then called up the troops to make a
last-ditch appeal to Republicans. Army General Keith Alexander,
the head of the NSA, which helps guard the government’s computer
networks, told lawmakers on July 30 that the U.S. had evidence
that adversaries have penetrated civilian networks. He compared
the moment to 1993, the year of the first World Trade Center
bombing, which was a precursor to Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.  “They’re practicing,” Alexander said.  His warning shook many of the lawmakers, while opponents’
remained determined to kill the measure.  The next day, July 31, Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, signaled that Republicans
weren’t even planning to debate the bill. Instead, their first
amendment to it would repeal Obama’s health-care overhaul.  Republicans seeking a compromise took one last shot. In a
tense meeting between the Chamber of Commerce and a group of
senators on Aug. 1, the day before the scheduled vote, Indiana
Republican  Dan Coats  argued that legislators had to be open-
minded and flexible, according one eyewitness.  Bruce Josten , the chief lobbyist for the Chamber, cut Coats
off and dismissed similar comments by Lieberman, attendees said.  The Chamber doesn’t discuss private meetings with members
and legislators, spokeswoman Jamie Glick said in an e-mail.  On Aug. 2, Senate Republican national security hawks,
including McCain and Hutchison, all voted to block the bill.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  