-- Portugal Airport Operator May Be Five Times TAP’s Value
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-11-16T12:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/portugal-s-airport-operator-may-fetch-fives-times-airline.html
Portuguese airport operator ANA may
generate 2.6 billion euros ($3.3 billion) for the government,
five times as much as state-owned airline TAP, as investors bet
on more reliable returns from infrastructure assets.  Some of the five offers for ANA-Aeroportos de  Portugal  SA
shortlisted by the government yesterday value it at 12 or 13
times last year’s 199.8 million euros in earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, according to Maria Luis  Albuquerque , Portugal’s secretary of state for treasury.  TAP SGPS SA, which attracted one bid, is worth no more than
500 million euros, according to an estimate by Donal O’Neill, an
analyst at  Goodbody Stockbrokers  in Dublin. Portugal is
auctioning the companies to raise cash after becoming the third
euro-area country to seek a bailout from the  International
Monetary Fund  and European Union.  “TAP is fragile because it relies on a very weak
Portuguese market,” said  John Strickland , director of JLS
Consulting in  London . “The jewel in the crown is its Brazilian
network, but a buyer would have to take a cold and dispassionate
look at short-haul routes that are under pressure from low-cost
carriers.”  Earnings Comparison  Sales at Lisbon-based TAP totaled 2.44 billion euros in
2011, almost six times the 425 million euros generated by ANA.
In contrast, the airport operator’s  Ebitda  jumped 22 percent as
traffic across its eight Portuguese airports rose 6.7 percent to
almost 27.6 million passengers.  The valuation given by Albuquerque for ANA is in line with
deals involving European airports over the past two years,
according to Olivia Peters, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets .  TAP had a  loss  of 76.8 million euros last year, when it
carried 9.75 million people, with debt amounting to 1.23 billion
euros. Even though as many as 13 parties sought information on
the airline, only Synergy Group of  Brazil , which controls  Latin
America ’s Avianca airline brands, came forward with a non-
binding offer, the government said Oct. 18.  Synergy must submit a final bid by Dec. 7, the  Finance
Ministry  said last month in the official government gazette.  Nationality Hurdle  Brazilian investor German Efromovich, who controls Synergy,
said yesterday that he’s seeking Polish citizenship based on the
ancestry of his parents and grandparents to comply with EU rules
that cap airline ownership by investors from outside member
countries at 49 percent.  Binding proposals for the ANA sale must be submitted by
mid-December, with a winner to be determined by the year’s end
and a deal concluded early in 2013, according Albuquerque.  The short-listed bids are from local builder  Mota-Engil
SGPS SA (EGL)  allied to Colombian engineer  Grupo Odinsa SA (ODINSA) , Frankfurt
airport owner Fraport AG with Industry Funds Management Pty Ltd.
of  Australia , French builder  Vinci SA (DG) ,  Switzerland ’s Flughafen
Zurich AG, and  Sonae Sierra (SSBR3) , which runs shopping centers,
alongside  Argentina ’s Corporacion America, which operates 49
airports in Latin America and  Europe .  Vinci, Europe’s biggest construction company, offered the
highest price for ANA, Portuguese daily Diario Economico
reported today, without saying where it got the information.
Maxence Naouri, a spokesman for Rueil-Malmaison, France-based
Vinci, wasn’t immediately available for comment.  Portugal has hired  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  advisers on the
disposal of both TAP and ANA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  