-- Pound Falls to Two-Week Low Versus Euro as Retail Sales Decline
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-11-15T16:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/pound-is-little-changed-against-dollar-before-retail-sales-data.html
The pound fell to a two-week low
against the euro after a government report showed U.K. retail
sales declined in October more than economists forecast.  Sterling reached the weakest in more than two months versus
the dollar after the Bank of England signaled yesterday it
hadn’t ruled out extending a program of asset purchases to
stimulate the economy. Gilts were little changed as the Debt
Management Office sold 2 billion pounds of 40-year bonds.
Moody’s Investors Service said it would assess the U.K.’s Aaa
rating at the beginning of next year as the economy slows.  “The weak retail-sales data this morning suggested the
economic rebound in the third quarter was in fact due to a one-
off factor, namely the Olympics,” said Eimear Daly, a currency
market analyst at Monex Europe Ltd. in  London . “We are likely
to see a sharp drop in the growth figure in the fourth quarter.
This will probably weigh on the pound in the near term.”  The pound depreciated 0.2 percent to 80.59 pence per euro
at 4:41 p.m. London time after sliding to 80.65, the weakest
since Oct. 31. The U.K. currency rose 0.2 percent to $1.5864. It
earlier declined to $1.5829, the lowest since Sept. 5.  Sterling has dropped 2.9 percent in the past six months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-market currencies. The euro fell 1.5 percent and
the dollar dropped 2 percent.  Retail sales  including fuel slipped 0.8 percent last month
after rising 0.5 percent in September, the Office for National
Statistics said in London. The median forecast of 23 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a decline of 0.1 percent.  Inflation Concern  Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said yesterday
inflation is set to remain above the central bank’s 2 percent
target into next year, though policy makers haven’t ruled out a
fourth round of so-called quantitative easing to encourage
economic growth.  “What the Bank of England said suggests the U.K. needs a
weaker sterling, given that growth remains subdued,” said
 Henrik Gullberg , a currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in
London. The direction of the pound will also depend on external
factors such as the strength of the U.S. economy and the
 European debt crisis , he said.  The Debt Management Office sold 2 billion pounds of 3.75
percent bonds due in July 2052 at an average yield of 3.22
percent, compared with 3.55 percent at the previous auction of
the securities on July 19. The sale attracted bids of 1.72 times
the amount on offer, versus 1.67 times in July.  Rating Assessment  The benchmark 10-year gilt yielded 1.74 percent. The price
of the 1.75 percent bond due in September 2022 was at 100.11.  The 10-year yield climbed as much as eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point yesterday, after the Bank of England cut
its growth outlook while raising its inflation projection.  Moody’s said yesterday it will reassess the U.K. credit
rating next year as the economy cools and the government and
private sector seek to reduce their debt levels.  The government’s Autumn Statement, scheduled to be released
in December, may reveal “the likely speed of fiscal
consolidation, the growth outlook and, most importantly, the
assurances offered that the debt trajectory will stabilize and
start to decline,” Moody’s said.  Gilts returned 3.1 percent this year through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds gained
4 percent and U.S. Treasuries rose 2.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  