-- Prehistoric Man Was Deadlier Earlier Than Once Thought
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-11-15T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/prehistoric-man-was-deadlier-earlier-than-once-thought.html
Scientists found evidence that human
ancestors used stone-tipped weapons 200,000 years earlier than
once thought, findings that may change notions about the smarts
and capabilities of prehistoric people.  Spears topped with stone points were most likely used for
hunting large game and self-defense and were an important
advance in weaponry, according to Jayne Wilkins, lead author of
the paper today in the journal  Science . The points came from one
of the Stone Age archaeological sites in  South Africa  called
Kathu Pan 1, and were used a half-million years ago.  Researchers first thought the early humans were using
sharpened wooden spears or stone hand axes,  Wilkins  said. The
steps required to put a sharp-tipped stone at the end of a
wooden spear, called hafting, means these ancestors had to
engage in planning and other goal-driven thought processes long
before a hunt took place, she said.  “This expands the range of behavioral complexity known in
human ancestors living 500,000 years ago,” said Wilkins, a PhD
candidate in the Department of Anthropology at the  University of
Toronto , in a Nov. 13 e-mail. “The amount of fore-planning and
goal-oriented behavior required for collecting stone, wood and
bindings for hafting indicate capabilities much greater than was
previously known. It also shows that stone-tipped spears were
being used by the ancestors of both modern humans and
Neanderthals, so the technology is probably not an independent
invention nor something one group learned from the other.”  The spears were an improvement because the hunters could
get further out of harm’s way and were more likely to make a
successful kill, she said.  Half-Million Years  The stone tips were recovered between 1979 and 1982 during
excavations. In 2010, researchers dated the site to about a
half-million years ago.  In the study, researchers replicated the stone points,
attached them to spears and then shot them at a dead animal
using a calibrated crossbow. The damage to the researchers’
stone points was similar to that seen on the 500,000-year-old
points, Wilkins said. The stone points also fit the size and
shape of Stone Age points used as spear tips.  “This technology would also have provided another layer of
protection from other carnivores, Wilkins said. “Stone-tipped
spears would have not only helped our ancestors get food, but
would also protect them from becoming food. Some researchers
have linked hafted technology - the attachment of stone tools to
wooden or bone handles - to language because the sequential
steps of combining materials to form a spear is like a recipe
that must be followed exactly to produce a result that makes
sense. In that way, hafting is analogous to creating a
grammatical sentence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  