-- Premier League Soccer Teams May Get Financial Rules Next Season
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-11-15T17:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/premier-league-soccer-teams-may-get-financial-rules-next-season.html
England’s Premier League may
establish financial controls before next season even though a
meeting today failed to set any parameters, West Ham owner David Gold said.  Executives of the English top division’s 20 teams met in
 London  to continue discussions aimed at curbing losses and
ensuring that revenue from a record-breaking television contract
isn’t all spent on player wage and transfer market inflation.  “The debate carries on,” Gold said following a four-hour
meeting. “I am hoping that we can come to some conclusions for
the best interest of the football clubs and the league as whole,
hopefully before the start of next season.”  Team officials will meet again in February. Today’s session
could’ve yielded decisions about the type and scale of new
controls or even seen the idea scrapped. Aston Villa, West
Bromwich Albion, Fulham and champion Manchester City expressed
opposition to any type of new financial regulation.  Wall Street analysts yesterday quizzed Manchester United
executive vice chairman Ed Woodward about whether the controls
would limit the 19-time English champion’s competitiveness in
the transfer market because rival teams in other leagues
wouldn’t be subject to the regulations.  Woodward said that most of the continent’s top teams are
already committed to following break-even rules being
established by  UEFA , European soccer’s governing body. They may
see over-spenders banned from the Champions League and Europa
League competitions from 2014.  Proposals  Regulations in the Premier League could include a
combination of UEFA’s break-even rule, an annual limit on wage
increases proposed by Sunderland owner Ellis Short and the
possibility of losses being permitted if covered by increases in
equity stakes.  UEFA’s so-called “financial fair-play” rules have already
affected the way many clubs are run from a push to increase
commercial revenue to a tightening of transfer spending.  European champion Chelsea last week announced its first
profit since billionaire owner Roman Abramovich bought the team
in 2003. It converted a 67.7 million-pound ($107 million) loss
in fiscal 2011 to a 1.4 million-pound profit. The Blues had lost
about 550 million pounds since the Russian’s arrival after
lavish spending on players.  “We will meet the criteria that’s put in front of us,”
Chelsea’s Chief Executive Officer Ron Gourlay said in a Nov. 12
interview. “If we decide we need to strengthen our team, then
we will but we will not strengthen our team on the basis of
failing to meet our financial fair play commitment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  