-- Prison-Phone Rate Cuts Considered by U.S. Regulators
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-11-15T20:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/prison-phone-rate-cuts-considered-by-u-s-regulators.html
U.S. regulators are considering rate
caps and other steps to lower jailhouse telephone rates that
enrich  private equity  firms as they cost U.S. prisoners and
their families as much as $17 for a 15-minute call.  Federal Communications Commission Chairman Julius Genachowski yesterday proposed information-gathering that could
lead to a vote to intervene in the $1.2 billion prison-phone
market, FCC Commissioner Mignon Clyburn said at a rally today.  “For far too long, friends and family of the incarcerated
have had no choice but to pay unconscionably high long-distance
rates,” Clyburn told demonstrators seeking lower rates who
gathered outside the agency’s headquarters in Washington.  Clyburn, like the chairman a Democrat, said the proceeding
was started by Genachowski and could lead to lower rates
“soon,” without specifying a timeline. Rate caps are among
steps being considered, said two agency officials who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the matter hasn’t been made
public.  Genachowski’s proposal seeks comment on interstate prison
phone rules and rates, Mark Wigfield, an FCC spokesman, said in
an e-mail. “These issues affect the families of inmates,
prisoner rehabilitation, as well as prison security,” Wigfield
said.  Private Equity  The market is dominated by two private equity-backed
companies, Global Tel*Link Corp. and Securus Technologies Inc.  Castle Harlan Inc., which owns Securus, declined to
comment, Michael Millican, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.
 Caroline Harris , a spokeswoman for Global Tel*Link owner
American Securities, in an e-mail declined to comment.  The companies bid for exclusive contracts to provide
telephone service, agreeing to pay as much as  two-thirds  of
calling charges to government or private prison operators. Those
commissions can drive fees to levels that make it difficult for
prisoners to maintain contact with spouses, children and
parents.  Prisoners make collect calls or set up prepaid accounts
funded by relatives or by their earnings from prison jobs that
pay cents per hour. Service providers may collect per-call fees
in addition to time-based charges, according to the Prison
Policy Initiative.  ‘Exorbitant’ Rates  A collection of civil rights, religious groups and members
of Congress has pressed the FCC to act on petitions filed by
prisoners and family members to cut what they’ve called
“exorbitant” rates. Representatives from the Leadership
Conference on Civil and  Human Rights , the United Church of
Christ, the National Urban League and other organizations  met
with  Genachowski in September and asked for a clear date for
action. In 2007,  petitioners asked  the FCC to cap interstate
calling services at 25 cents a minute.  Global Tel*Link, based in Mobile,  Alabama , has about 50
percent of the correctional-phone services market, followed by
Securus with almost 30 percent, according to  Standard & Poor’s .  Prison phone charges vary by location. A 15-minute call
through Global Tel*Link costs $2.36 in  Massachusetts  and more
than $17 in  Georgia , according to a  study  released Sept. 11 by
the Prison Policy Initiative, an advocacy group in Easthampton,
Massachusetts. In  New York , where commissions to jail operators
aren’t allowed, Global Tel*Link charges about 5 cents a minute,
according to the study.  Security Cited  Prison calls cost more than residential telephone service
for reasons that include security requirements and bad debts,
according to Dallas-based Securus, which said in a  filing  that
it has about 1,400 contracts in 46 states.  Prison calling services include security capabilities such
as preventing call-forwarding and conference calls, and caller
identification based on voice analysis, Global Tel*Link said in
an Oct. 3 filing at the FCC.  Corrections Corp. of America, the largest private prison
operator, said in a regulatory filing that an FCC decision to
bar commissions would have a material adverse effect on its
results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  