-- Putin Health Confusion Sparks Investor Concern
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-11-16T07:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/putin-health-confusion-sparks-investor-concern.html
Russian government reticence to
discuss President  Vladimir Putin ’s health issues is adding to
investor concern about the lack of transparency in a country
that’s losing $80 billion a year in  capital  flight.  The Russian leader canceled or postponed five foreign trips
over more than a month, including to  Turkey  and  Pakistan , and
has mostly operated out of his residence outside Moscow. The
Kremlin’s only statement was a report that Putin, 60, had pulled
a back muscle during judo training in early September. Officials
including Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  have repeatedly denied
that the president is undergoing treatment or avoiding travel.  The lack of a more detailed explanation for Putin’s
curtailed travel injects more uncertainty to an investment
climate at a time when near-record amounts of capital are
leaving  Russia . Investors, who have to contend with the worst
corruption among advanced economies, say Putin is needed as a
guarantor of stability after he prolonged his more than decade-
long rule this year for a new stint that may extend to 2024.  “Uncertainties around Putin’s health aren’t good for
investors,” said Sergey Dergachev, who helps manage $8.5
billion of emerging-market assets at Union Investment
Privatfonds in  Frankfurt . “Investors don’t like uncertainty,
and many still associate Russia’s relatively stable foundation
with Putin.”  Capital Outflows  Capital outflows reached  $58 billion  in the first nine
months of this year, after  $80 billion  left the country in 2011,
according to the central bank. That compares with a combined
inflow of about $120 billion in 2006 and 2007, before the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. sent the world economy
into turmoil.  Russia’s benchmark Micex  stock index  is down more than 5
percent in the past month, compared with a decline of about 3
percent in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)  The price of Urals
crude oil, Russia’s main export product, dropped 5.4 percent in
the same period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Putin’s health isn’t a concern, the controversy
reflects the opacity of political life in Russia, said Peter Westin, chief equity strategist at Aton Capital in Moscow. The
country is the most corrupt member of the Group of 20 group of
advanced economies according to Transparency International’s
 2011 Corruption Perceptions Index .  Mirror Cabinet  One example is the uncertainty about the hierarchy in
decision-making after Putin returned to the presidency in May
following a four-year stint as premier. He appointed several of
his former ministers as advisers, with responsibilities that
mirror those of the Cabinet led by Medvedev.  Putin hasn’t been on a single official trip since visiting
Tajikistan on Oct. 5. He usually travels to other Russian
regions several times a month.  When making public appearances, he is often seen sitting.
At talks with Israeli President  Shimon Peres , 89, on Nov. 8,
held at Putin’s residence outside Moscow, the Russian leader
walked stiffly and made a statement to journalists from his
chair.  Turkey on Oct. 10 announced that Putin’s visit scheduled
for Oct. 14-15 had been postponed because of the Russian
leader’s busy schedule. The Kremlin’s foreign policy chief,  Yuri Ushakov , said Oct. 2 that Putin would skip a summit with
regional counterparts in Pakistan that month because of calendar
conflicts.  ‘No Restrictions’  “There are no restrictions on the president,”  Dmitry Peskov , Putin’s spokesman, said by phone on Nov. 15, adding that
the agenda changes are “just issues of scheduling.” Putin’s
health problems are “nothing serious,” Medvedev, whom Putin
edged aside as president to reclaim the Kremlin, said in an
interview with Finnish media Nov. 13.  Their comments convinced part of the investment community,
according to Tom Adshed, head of research at the hedge fund
Kazimir Partners in Moscow, who said Putin’s health isn’t a
“major issue.”  “He is showing himself on the public stage and he still
seems pretty active,” he said by phone Nov. 13.  Still, the assurances haven’t stopped speculation. The
Russian-language search terms “Putin heart attack” yield about
30,000 Google Inc. results for the past month.  Endangered Cranes  The Moscow-based business newspaper  Vedomosti  on Nov. 1
cited two people close to the Kremlin as saying that Putin re-
injured his back during a Sept. 6 flight leading a flock of
endangered cranes into the wild in a motorized hang glider. The
president is undergoing treatment and doctors advised him
against any flights, Vedomosti wrote.  Peskov the same day said Putin, a judo black belt, hadn’t
aggravated an old back injury during the stunt.  A strained muscle in the lower back or a degenerative
lumbar spine condition would be consistent with Putin avoiding
 air travel  and his apparent difficulty in walking, according to
David Geier, an orthopedic surgeon at the  Medical University of
South Carolina  in Charleston.  “Degenerative lumbar spine conditions would be more
serious but that doesn’t imply that they aren’t treatable or
even require surgery,” Geier said by e-mail on Nov. 13.  Most Russians remember guessing about the health of their
leaders, from President  Boris Yeltsin  in the 1990s, stretching
back to the 1980s when three Communist Party chiefs died while
in office. Soviet leader  Leonid Brezhnev  was rarely seen in the
months before he died of a heart attack on Nov. 10, 1982, with
the Soviet government claiming he wasn’t seriously ill.  No Clarity  Even if the secrecy isn’t comparable to those times, the
Kremlin won’t provide “complete clarity,” said  Roland Nash ,
chief investment strategist at Verno Capital, which manages $200
million in Russian equities. Anything that threatens Putin’s
health “is a cause for concern,” he said.  Putin, who will be eligible to run for another six-year
term in 2018, needs to have a clear plan for succession, said
 Tim McCarthy , who oversees more than $1 billion of assets in
Russia and other  emerging markets  at Valartis  Asset Management (ADN) 
in Geneva.  “They need to have a back-up plan for when they think the
main guy is a risk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  