-- Qatar Holding Backs Glencore $31 Billion Bid for Xstrata
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-11-15T09:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/qatar-holding-backs-glencore-s-31-2-billion-bid-for-xstrata.html
Qatar Holding LLC,  Xstrata (XTA)  Plc’s
second-largest shareholder, will vote for a $31 billion bid for
the mining company by Glencore International Plc, boosting the
likelihood the year’s biggest takeover will succeed.  The investment arm of the Qatar Investment Authority
“continues to see merit in a combination of the two companies
and is satisfied with the terms of the proposed merger,” it
said today in a regulatory statement.  At a meeting to be held Nov. 20 to approve the creation of
the world’s fourth-largest mining company, Qatar Holding will
vote in favor of a resolution that approves the deal subject to
a later vote on management retention payments being passed. It
will also back a second resolution that gives the go ahead for
the transaction if the payments aren’t passed, the fund said.  “This means the deal is all but done,” Ash Lazenby, an
analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in  London , said today in a note.  Qatar, the owner of 12 percent of Xstrata, will abstain
from voting on the incentive-payments resolution, it said. The
payments have been criticized by investors including Standard
Life Investments and Knight Vinke Asset Management LLC.  There’s now an increased chance investors will block the
payments to Xstrata management as their “governance departments
now have increased leverage to vote against” them, Lazenby
said.  Two Resolutions  The first of the two resolutions is to approve the takeover
along with 144 million pounds ($228 million) of retention
bonuses for about 70 Xstrata employees and a second that
approves the deal while excluding the pay question.  Holders of Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata will also be
asked to consider the retention package as a standalone
proposal. That vote, to be held in a separate meeting about 15
minutes later, requires 50 percent support. The outcome will
determine which of the first two resolutions will be acted on.  Qatar Holding said it believes that retaining Xstrata’s
operational management is critical to the success of the
combination with Baar, Switzerland-based  Glencore. (GLEN)   “However, QH is conscious of the sensitivities concerning
governance issues in the U.K. and does not feel it appropriate
to influence the outcome either way,” it said. For that reason,
it will abstain from voting on the retention incentive plan.  Highest Ratio  Glencore raised its bid on Sept. 7 to 3.05 of its shares
for each Xstrata share, from 2.8 shares proposed in February,
after Xstrata investors including Qatar demanded a higher offer.
Xstrata on Oct. 1 recommended shareholders back the revised deal
and vote for bonuses to retain managers of its mining assets,
making up about 80 percent of the combined company’s earnings.  Xstrata advanced 1.3 percent to 959.5 pence by 8:58 a.m. in
London trading and Glencore fell 0.9 percent to 328.4 pence.
Xstrata stock is at 2.92 times that of Glencore, the highest
since the transaction was announced in February.  The deal, which initially involved 172.8 million pounds in
executive payments before they were amended, was a high-profile
target of the so-called “shareholder spring” during which
investors revolted over pay at some U.K. and U.S. companies.  Investors this year rejected proposed compensation for
 Martin Sorrell , chief executive officer of advertising firm  WPP
Plc (WPP) , and Citigroup CEO Vikram Pandit, as well as management at
insurer  Aviva Plc. (AV/)   Fidelity Worldwide Investment, owner of about 0.6 percent
of Xstrata, also supports the takeover, a person familiar with
the matter said yesterday.  Standard Life  While Standard Life, which holds about 1.4 percent of
Xstrata, plans to vote for the deal and against the retention
payments, Scottish Widows Investment Partnership, owner of about
1.1 percent, said on Nov. 9 it supports the combination and the
bonuses.  Shareholder advisery groups are also divided. Pensions &
Investment Research Consultants Ltd. recommended opposing the
deal, citing a lack of due diligence and board independence at
Xstrata. Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. and  Glass Lewis 
urged investors to support the takeover, while calling for the
retention bonuses to be voted down.  Qatar Holding is advised by Lazard & Co. Ltd. Glencore is
working with Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley as financial
advisers. Xstrata has hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura Bank International Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  