-- Rand Falls to 5-Week Low as Farm Protests Damp Investor Appeal
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-11-15T07:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/rand-falls-to-5-week-low-as-farm-protests-damp-investor-appeal.html
The rand declined for a fifth day to
the weakest level in more than five weeks as violent protests by
farm workers in  South Africa ’s Western Cape province damped the
nation’s appeal for investors.  South Africa’s currency retreated as much as 0.4 percent to
8.9576 per dollar, the weakest level since Oct. 8. It traded 0.2
percent weaker at 8.9378 as of 9:50 a.m. in Johannesburg. Yields
on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026 climbed five
basis points to 7.76 percent after rising 10 basis points in the
previous three days.  Strike-related protests that began in a grape-growing
region of the province on Nov. 6 have since spread to 16 rural
towns. One farmworker was killed in the southwestern town of
Wolseley on Nov. 13, while vineyards and houses have been set
alight. Violent labor unrest in South Africa’s mining industry
since Aug. resulted in about 46 people killed and some mines
halting production.  “It doesn’t paint a pretty picture if you’re an offshore
investor,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, the Johannesburg-based chief
dealer at Bidvest Bank, South Africa’s biggest chain of money-
changers, said by phone. “I don’t see any respite for the rand
in the short term.”  Foreign investors sold a net $600 million rand of South
African stocks and bonds yesterday, according to JSE Ltd. data.
The nation’s benchmark stock  index  fell to the lowest closing
level since Oct. 31.  The labor unrest comes as concern about  Europe ’s debt
crisis and rising tension in the Middle East damps investor
demand for riskier assets, ETM analysts including Johannesburg-
based George Glynos wrote in e-mailed comments. Millions of
workers across Europe downed tools yesterday in protest against
austerity measures, while Israel air strikes in the Hamas-ruled
 Gaza strip  killed the leader of the group’s militant wing, Ahmed
al Jabari.  “Against this backdrop, countries need to pay extra
attention to ensuring they offer a more attractive risk
proposition,” Glynos wrote. “Given both the domestic and
international backdrop, traders would prefer to trade off a
long-dollar base.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  