-- Transocean Wins Appeal in $15 Million Maersk Patent Lawsuit
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-11-15T17:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/transocean-wins-appeal-in-15-million-maersk-patent-lawsuit-1-.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s largest
offshore rig contractor, won an appeals court ruling that
reinstates a $15 million jury verdict against shipping company
 A.P. Moeller Maersk A/S (MAERSKB)  over a way to drill wells.  A trial judge was wrong to throw out the jury verdict, the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit said in a  decision 
posted on its website today. “Transocean presented substantial
evidence” to back the jury’s April 2011 decision upholding the
patents, the appeals court said.  The dispute, first filed in 2007, is over Transocean’s
dual-activity technology, which lets a single derrick on a rig
perform parallel drilling operations to save time and money.
Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean had claimed three patents
were infringed by a rig Maersk was building for use by Norway’s
 Statoil ASA (STL)  in the Gulf of Mexico.  “Maersk was aware of Transocean’s patents and its
drillships embodying the patents while Maersk designed its
accused rig,” the three-judge appellate panel ruled. “The
evidence also shows that Maersk decided to incorporate the
claimed dual-activity feature anyway because it believed
Transocean’s patents were invalid.”  Previous Ruling  The case has bounced between the trial court and the
Federal Circuit for years. U.S. District Judge Kenneth Hoyt in
Houston in 2009 said the patents were invalid, only to have the
appeals court revive the case a year later.  “We welcome this news and continue to stand by our
patented dual-activity technology,” said  Guy Cantwell , a
spokesman for Transocean.  Transocean settled similar claims against Pride
International Inc. and  Noble Corp. (NE)  over the patents.  Officials with Copenhagen-based Maersk didn’t immediately
respond to requests for comment.  The case is Transocean Offshore Deepwater Drilling Inc. v.
Maersk Drilling USA Inc., 2011-1555, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is
Transocean Offshore Deepwater Drilling Inc. v. Maersk
Contractors USA Inc., 07cv02392, U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  