-- RBA Sells A$483 Million to Other Clients, Most Since 2009
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-11-15T01:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/rba-sells-a-483-million-to-other-clients-most-since-june-2009.html
The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia 
increased net sales of the nation’s dollars last month to a
category of buyers that can include foreign central banks.  The RBA  sold  A$483 million ($500 million) more Australian
currency than it bought in October through so-called other
outright transactions, the most since June 2009, according to
data released today. It sold a net A$275 million in the spot
foreign exchange  market  and bought a net A$301 million from the
government. Its foreign-exchange reserves rose to A$38.5 billion
from A$34 billion in September, the data show.  A surge in RBA sales of the Aussie dollar since August
prompted speculation policy makers are seeking to curb gains in
the currency after its 60 percent climb over the past four years
hurt manufacturing and tourism. The central bank has reported
net sales of A$1.4 billion in the other outright category over
the past three months, the most since the period ended July
2009.  “There will likely be more chatter that the RBA is perhaps
conducting off-market, central bank-to-central  bank
transactions ,” said Emma Lawson, a Sydney-based currency
strategist at National Australia Bank Ltd. “The Aussie is
considered to have been strong due to these market transactions
for investors buying our government debt. If it’s being
conducted off-market, then perhaps that takes some pressure off
the upside for the currency.”  Bonds Bought  Foreign investors including at least 17 central banks have
been snapping up Australian  government securities , the highest-
yielding AAA rated sovereign notes.  Overseas buyers  held 77.5
percent of the nation’s bonds as of June 30, compared with a
record 79 percent on March 31, government data show.  The Aussie bought $1.0359 as of 12:29 p.m. in Sydney. It
has risen 1.8 percent in the past 12 months, the biggest gainer
after the  New Zealand dollar  among Group of 10 currencies.  Australia’s 10-year yield lost three basis points to 3.03
percent. The nation’s government debt has handed investors 10
percent return in the past year after accounting for gains in
the currency, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. They are
the best-performers among developed markets that hold a AAA
score from all three main credit-rating companies, the data
show.  Other outright foreign-exchange transactions include the
RBA’s dealings with “other central banks, international
financial institutions which aren’t intended to affect the
 exchange rate , clients other than the Australian government, and
interest received on holdings of foreign assets,” according to
the central bank’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  