-- Treasury Yields Are 20 Basis Points From Low Before CPI
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-11-15T08:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/treasuries-yields-show-inflation-expectations-falling.html
Treasury 10-year notes were little
changed before a report economists said will show the cost of
living in the U.S. increased at the slowest pace in three months
during October.  Thirty-year  bond yields  were within four basis points of
the lowest in more than two months before data forecast to show
the euro-area  economy  contracted in the third quarter. The
 difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-maturity
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt,
narrowed to the least in two months.  “Yields will go down to new lows,” said Hideo Shimomura,
who helps oversee the equivalent of $74.8 billion in  Tokyo  as
chief fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., part
of  Japan ’s largest publicly-traded bank. “The economy is
recovering, but it’s only moderate growth.”  U.S. 10-year notes  yielded  1.60 percent as of 8:54 a.m. in
 London , Bloomberg Bond Trader data show. The rate dropped to
1.57 percent on Nov. 13, the least since Sept. 5. The 1.625
percent security due in November 2022 traded at 100 7/32.  The rate on the 30-year bond was at 2.74 percent, after
falling to 2.70 percent on Nov. 13, the lowest since Sept. 6.  Ten-year yields will drop to 1.1 percent in the first
quarter of next year, Shimomura said. A Bloomberg survey of
banks and securities companies projects the yield will climb to
1.74 percent by Dec. 31 and to 1.86 percent by March 31, with
the most recent projections given the heaviest weightings.  Fed Buying  Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco President  John Williams  said yesterday the U.S. central bank will probably buy
about $85 billion in bonds per month starting in early 2013 and
continue purchasing securities well into the second half of the
year to support the economy.  Shinzo Abe, leader of Japan’s opposition Liberal  Democratic
Party , said today the nation’s central bank should adopt
unlimited easing. Polls indicate the ruling Democratic Party of
Japan may lose a parliamentary election set for next month.  The U.S. consumer price index rose 0.1 percent in October
from the month before, based on the median estimate of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before the Labor
Department report at 8:30 a.m.  New York  time. The pace of growth
would mark a slowing after 0.6 percent gains in August and
September.  U.S. Inflation  Prices advanced 2.1 percent in October from the year
before, the Bloomberg survey showed. Inflation, as measured by
this gauge, has averaged 2.5 percent over the past decade, after
rising to as high as 14.8 percent in 1980.  Other reports today may show initial jobless claims climbed
in the wake of superstorm Sandy in the Northeast, while regional
manufacturing decelerated.  Minutes of the Fed’s last meeting released yesterday showed
policy makers think the central bank may need to boost bond
purchases next year to support the economic recovery. Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to speak today.  The 10-year  break-even rate  narrowed by three basis points
to 2.36 percentage point, after being as low as 2.35 percentage
points, the least since Sept. 11. The rate has dropped from a
2012 high of 2.73 percentage points on Sept. 17 as investors
pared back expectations that record-low  interest rates  and asset
purchases will boost consumer-price increases.  Inflation Expectations  The Fed’s preferred measure of inflation expectations, the
five-year, five-year forward break-even  rate,  fell to 2.76
percent as of Nov. 9, the most recent reading available in data
compiled by Bloomberg. It was the lowest level in three weeks.  In the minutes, some Fed officials said the central bank
may need to expand its monthly purchases of bonds next year
after the December expiration of a program known as Operation
Twist, which involves selling short-term debt and buying longer
maturities.  “A number of participants indicated that additional asset
purchases would likely be appropriate next year after the
conclusion of the maturity-extension program,” according to the
record of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Oct. 23-24
gathering.  The so-called fiscal cliff of tax increases and spending
cuts combined with  Europe ’s debt crisis have increased demand
for the relative safety of Treasuries, helping push yields down.  The euro-region’s  economy  shrank 0.1 percent in the third
quarter, after contracting 0.2 percent in the previous three
months, according to the median forecast of 44 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey.   To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net 
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  