-- Treasuries in Narrowest Range in Six Weeks Before Cliff Talks
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-11-15T22:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/treasuries-decline-as-eu-s-rehn-clears-path-to-spanish-bailout.html
Treasury 10-year note yields traded
in the narrowest range in six weeks as President  Barack Obama 
prepared to meet lawmakers tomorrow to discuss ways to avoid the
so-called fiscal cliff that may push the U.S. into a recession.  U.S. debt  pared losses  earlier today after more Americans
than forecast submitted claims for unemployment insurance last
week as  Hurricane Sandy  wreaked havoc. Yields had gained as
investors bet rates at two-month lows weren’t justified, given
that the world’s largest economy is sustaining its recovery,
even as the euro area slipped into recession. The Federal
Reserve’s primary dealers expect expanded buying of Treasuries
next year, a survey showed.  “There’s been a post-election drop in yields on the idea
that we’re closer to the fiscal cliff,” said Larry Dyer, a U.S.
interest rate strategist with HSBC Holdings Plc in New York, one
of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “The yield range
is likely to stay relatively muted.  In that environment,
investors stay close to home.”  Ten-year  yields  were little changed at 1.59 percent at 4:59
p.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.
The 1.625 percent security due November 2022 traded at 100 9/32.
The yield has traded in a 6.2 basis point range in the past
three days, the least since the three days ending Oct.3.  “We’re anticipating a 1.4 percent 10-year note over
time,” Dyer said.  Inflation Protection  The U.S. announced it will sell $13 billion in 10-year
inflation-indexed notes on Nov. 21. Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, or TIPS, have returned 7.9 percent this year.  Volatility dropped yesterday close to the lowest level
since 2007, according to the latest data available from Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures price swings
based on options. It touched 56.8, compared with a 2012 low of
56.7 basis points in May, the least since 2007. The average
during the past decade is 99.22 basis points.  Treasuries have returned 1 percent since the election,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. That’s
compared with a 0.5 percent gain for their German counterparts.  The U.S. economy is forecast to expand 2.2 percent in 2012
and 2 percent next year, according to Bloomberg data.  Election Watch  U.S. bonds have been supported since Obama’s re-election on
Nov.6 as investors turned their attention to the fiscal cliff,
the $607 billion of tax increases and spending cuts that will
automatically come into force at the beginning of 2013 unless
lawmakers act. Obama said yesterday that voters want to cut the
budget deficit by imposing higher taxes on the wealthy and
reducing spending. Republicans oppose raising taxes.  “You are firmly tucked into the environment where all
things revolve around the fiscal cliff,” said  Tom Porcelli ,
chief U.S. economist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital
Markets unit, one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  A report earlier showed gross domestic product in  Europe ’s
17-nation single-currency region slipped 0.1 percent in the
third quarter after a 0.2 percent decline in the previous three
months. The data from the EU’s statistics office in Luxembourg
was in line with the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
of 44 economists.  Bullish Events  “You have the fiscal cliff and there’s some deterioration
in Europe, said  Ray Remy , head of fixed income in New York at
Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc., one of 21 primary dealers
that trade directly with the Fed. “We’re probably going to
continue to rally. Ten-year notes may go to 1.50 by next week.”  Treasuries were also supported amid turmoil in the Middle
East. Tel Aviv residents were sent to air raid shelters as
Gaza’s Islamic Jihad militia said it fired rockets at  Israel ’s
largest city.  The cost of protecting Israeli bonds against default surged
to the highest level in two months and the shekel weakened after
police said a rocket from Gaza was fired at the Tel Aviv area.  The U.S. central bank purchased $1.85 billion of
Treasuries due from February 2036 to November 2042 today as part
of its Operation Twist program to replace short term debt in its
portfolio with longer-term Treasuries.  Bond Buys  In the minutes of their last meeting released yesterday
some Fed officials said the central bank may need to expand its
monthly purchases of bonds next year after the December
expiration of a program known as Operation Twist, which involves
selling short-term debt and buying longer maturities.  Primary dealers saw the Fed continuing with its asset-
purchase program for more than a year in a survey conducted by
the central bank before its Oct. 23-24 meeting.  The median respondent in the survey by the Fed Bank of New
York predicted that the central bank will continue with its
“flow-based” asset-purchase program until the first quarter of
2014. Primary dealers also saw the Fed purchasing $45 billion of
Treasury securities and $40 billion of mortgage debt after the
December and January meetings of the Federal Open Market
Committee.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian said
the Fed will expand its bond purchases to include Treasuries by
early next year.  The central bank in its December or January Federal Open
Market Committee meeting will announce plans to add Treasury
purchases to the $40 billion in mortgage-backed securities it is
now buying in its third round of quantitative easing, known as
QE3, El-Erian, chief executive officer of the world’s biggest
manager of bond funds, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu . The Fed will also
take additional steps to improve transparency in communication
of the path of monetary policy, he said.  Economic Data  Treasury yields pared gains earlier as applications for
jobless benefits surged by 78,000 to 439,000 in the week ended
Nov. 10, the most since April 2011, the Labor Department said
today in Washington. Several states said the increase was due to
the storm that hit the Northeastern part of the U.S. in late
October, a Labor Department spokesman said as the data were
released to the press.  The cost of living rose in October at the slowest pace in
three months, a sign U.S. inflation is in check. The 0.1 percent
increase in the consumer-price index followed a 0.6 percent gain
the prior month, the Labor Department reported today in
 Washington .  The median estimate of 83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a 0.1 percent rise. The so-called core measure, which
excludes more volatile food and energy costs, climbed 0.2
percent, more than projected, reflected rising rents and
clothing costs.  The  difference  in yields between 10-year notes and TIPS
narrowed to 2.37 percentage points, the least since Sept. 7. The
gap, known as the 10-year break-even rate, widened to 2.7
percentage points on Sept. 17, the most since May 2006.  The five- year, five- year forward break-even  rate , which
projects the pace of price increases starting in 2017, narrowed
to 2.76 percent on Nov. 9, the least in a month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  