-- Reckitt Benckiser to Bid for Schiff in $1.4 Billion Deal
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-11-16T14:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/reckitt-benckiser-to-bid-for-schiff-in-1-4-billion-deal.html
Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/)  made a
surprise $1.4 billion counterbid for  Schiff Nutrition
International Inc. (SHF) , topping an agreed offer from  Bayer AG (BAYN)  for
the maker of vitamins, supplements and nutrition bars.  The tender offer of $42 a share in cash will commence
today, Slough, England-based Reckitt Benckiser said yesterday
after U.S. markets closed. The bid is 24 percent higher than
Salt Lake City-based Schiff’s last  closing price .  Reckitt Benckiser and Bayer are competing for Schiff’s
fast-growing vitamins and nutritional supplements business,
which the German drugmaker had sought to add to its consumer-
health unit. Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer agreed last month
to buy Schiff for about $1.1 billion.  “This is not a done deal,”  Andrew Wood , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote in a note today. “There is
certainly a possibility that Bayer may announce a counterbid to
RB’s offer, even though it would require Bayer eating its words
that its current bid is already above what it considered as
exceptionally fully valued.”  Bayer is holding meetings today to assess the situation and
evaluate next steps, according to three people close to the
company who declined to be identified because the deliberations
are private. No final decision has been made on whether it will
make a counterbid or walk away, the people said.  Bayer declined to comment on Reckitt’s offer, said Michael Schade, a spokesman for the Leverkusen, Germany-based company.  ‘Significant Synergies’  Schiff rose as much as 30 percent to $44.19 in extended
trading yesterday, exceeding Reckitt Benckiser’s bid price. The
shares rose less than 1 percent to $33.92 at the close in  New
York . Reckitt Benckiser fell 1 percent to 3,715 pence at 8:03
a.m. in London, while Bayer rose 0.3 percent to 65.65 euros.  Reckitt Benckiser, the maker of Strepsil cold remedies and
Gaviscon heartburn relief, said a purchase of Schiff wouldn’t be
dependent on financing because it could be funded from existing
facilities. Buying Schiff would result in “significant
synergies and that it would be immediately accretive to earnings
on an adjusted basis,” it said.  “If Reckitt Benckiser is successful with this bid, we
believe this acquisition makes excellent strategic sense and
good financial sense,” Bernstein’s Wood wrote.  The U.K. company’s offer may draw interest in Schiff from
other global consumer-health companies, Wood said, identifying
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  as the only other major player that doesn’t
have a position in the area of vitamins and dietary supplements.  Bidding War?  There have been almost 170 takeovers of vitamin and
nutrition products companies globally in the past decade,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Reckitt Benckiser’s
offer values Schiff at about 28 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization. That compares with the
median of 18 times Ebitda in a survey of 13 similar deals over
that period, Bloomberg data show.  “The deal is not cheap, but the multiples still seem
reasonable,” Wood said. Reckitt Benckiser could justify paying
an even higher price if forced into a bidding war, he said.  The British company said it sees no reason why its tender
offer for Schiff cannot close before the end of the year,
“assuming prompt due diligence.” The offer is subject to the
termination of Schiff’s agreement with Bayer.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is Reckitt Benckiser’s exclusive financial
adviser and Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP is
giving legal advice. Reckitt Benckiser said it will file offer
documents today with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The company said it’s prepared to sign a merger agreement
“substantially similar” to the one Schiff has with Bayer and
“looks forward to engaging with Schiff’s board and is confident
that they will recognize it as a superior proposal.”  Tiger’s Milk  Schiff, whose Chief Executive Officer Tarang Amin would
have received a $5 million bonus if the Bayer deal was completed
by Dec. 31, may have to pay Bayer a $22 million breakup fee,
according to a filing from the company in October.  Bayer’s Oct. 29 agreement with Schiff allows the U.S.
company to accept an unsolicited higher offer within 30 days,
provided it pays Bayer the breakup fee.  Schiff makes Move Free joint-care pills, Tiger’s Milk
nutrition bars and MegaRed Omega-3 supplements. The company had
sales of $258.9 million in the year ended May 31, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Schiff gets 94 percent of  revenue 
from the U.S., and has been “consistently gaining share in the
U.S. vitamins market over the last two years,” Bernstein said.  Beating Estimates  Reckitt Benckiser last month posted revenue that beat
estimates, boosted by increased sales of health-related products
and a turnaround in developed markets. Chief Executive Officer
Rakesh Kapoor has introduced new products such as Durex
Performax Intense condoms and boosted marketing spending to stem
declines in slumping European markets while lifting sales in
emerging regions.  Harold Thompson , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in London,
said Reckitt Benckiser has been successful at extracting higher
profits from a string of acquisitions since 2006, including
Adams Respiratory Therapeutics Inc. and SSL International Plc,
the maker of Scholl foot products and Durex condoms.  “Each deal has come at a healthy price and this one is no
different,” said Thompson in an e-mailed note. “The growth and
margin improvement which have been promised with each deal have
always come through and more.” said Thompson, who recommends
buying Reckitt Benckiser stock.  Reckitt Benckiser bought Chester, New Jersey-based Adams
for $2.14 billion in 2008 and paid 2.5 billion pounds ($4
billion) in 2010 for London-based SSL.  Becky Herrick, a spokeswoman for Schiff, didn’t immediately
return a voicemail after regular business hours yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  