-- Republican Governors Seek New Message After Election Loss
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-11-15T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/republican-governors-seek-new-message-after-election-loss.html
  Republican governors said they’re
examining why  Mitt Romney  lost the presidential race, and that
their party needs to deliver their message more effectively.  At the start of a two-day Republican Governors Association
meeting in Las Vegas, state leaders said the loss of the White
House and seats in the U.S. House and Senate should lead to
discussion about how the party can better appeal to Hispanics
and younger voters.  “This election is a wake up call,” Louisiana Governor
 Bobby Jindal  told reporters at the meeting yesterday. “There is
going to be a period of introspection where we discuss what went
wrong.”  Jindal and other governors said the party’s message wasn’t
articulated clearly enough during the presidential campaign.
Governors said they’re optimistic about the party’s future,
noting that they’ll hold 30 governorships next year, the most
since 2000, after the party won the North Carolina governor’s
office from Democrats on Nov. 6.  “Overwhelmingly in the states our citizens are choosing
Republican governors,” said Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell at
a news conference yesterday in Las Vegas. “We hold 60 percent
of the states, representing 180 million people.”  Jindal, who will serve as head of the governors group next
year, called on the Republican party to modernize without
becoming more like Democrats. He said at a panel discussion that
“significant changes” are needed.  ‘Smaller Government’  “It’s not a failure of conservative principles -- you look
at exit polls in last week’s election and the majority of voters
said they wanted smaller government,” said Jindal, who was
elected to his second term last year. “However, a majority of
voters also said they trusted the Democratic party to cut taxes
on the middle class more than the Republican party.”  Jindal said Republicans need to better articulate their
position on taxes and change their policy approach on
immigration.  “People that want to help build the economy, we should be
welcoming those folks,” Jindal said in an interview.  The next Republican presidential candidate should look to
the success of Republican governors, said Governor  Scott Walker 
of  Wisconsin .  “To have a successful ground game you have to motivate
people by ideas,” said Walker, who successfully fended off a
recall effort earlier this year. “Our bold agendas, our bold
plans to get our states going again -- those are the things that
motivated our voters.”  Superstorm Impact  They also said superstorm Sandy hurt Romney’s campaign
against President  Barack Obama  in the days before the election
by diverting voters’ attention away from the economy and
unemployment.  Haley Barbour , who was governor of  Mississippi  from 2004
until this year, said the party needs to examine what worked,
and what didn’t, in the presidential campaign.  “We can catch up in four years; this isn’t rocket
science,” Barbour said. “But it is hard work. We’ve got to
give our political organizational activity a very serious
proctology exam. We need to look everywhere.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in  Las Vegas  at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in Las Vegas at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  