-- Resolution Drops as International Sales Fall, Costs Rise
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-11-15T16:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/resolution-drops-as-international-sales-fall-costs-rise.html
Resolution Ltd. (RSL) , the insurance
buyout firm founded by  Clive Cowdery  in 2008, dropped the most
in two months in London trading after international sales
declined and one-time costs of technology increased.  The stock fell 4 percent to 230 pence, the most since Sept.
5. International sales dropped 18 percent to 272 million pounds
($431 million) in the first nine months of the year, the
Guernsey, Channel Islands-based firm said today in a statement.
Resolution will spend 35 million pounds to integrate computer
systems after buying  Axa SA (CS) ’s U.K. life insurance unit.  “We do not expect the market to be impressed by the news
on the increased  information technology  spend,”  Eamonn Flanagan , a Liverpool, England-based analyst at  Shore Capital
Group Ltd. (SGR)  with a hold rating on the stock, wrote in a note to
clients today. “With a strategy that has flip-flopped regularly
in recent years, we prefer to sit on the sidelines until greater
clarity emerges.”  Resolution this year canceled plans to sell its Friends
Life division, a merger of Friends Provident, the Axa unit and
Bupa Health, as record low  interest rates  squeezed returns and
the firm missed its target for capital returns to shareholders.
The company is disbanding an agreement with Resolution
Operations, a privately owned firm also run by Cowdery that
managed its acquisition strategy.  In addition to the computer-systems expenses, Resolution
said it expects “uncertain” costs in the low tens of millions
of pounds over the next 12 months. The firm said it will also
spend 30 million pounds to change its outsourcing agreements.
This will help increase planned cost savings to 160 million
pounds a year by the end of 2015, a 12 percent increase on an
earlier target.  ‘More Complex’  “It’s disappointing to have to announce some adjustments
to these cost estimates today,” Finance Director  Tim Tookey 
said on a conference call with reporters today. The Axa
information technology integration “is proving more complex
than had previously been estimated and that really is the nub of
the issue.”  Resolution’s international revenue was hurt by the  European
debt crisis  and in  Germany  in particular, it said. The firm will
explore “restructuring options” in the country, where low
interest rates have squeezed insurers’ profits on life insurance
and savings products offering customers guaranteed returns,
Resolution Chief Executive Officer Designate Andy Briggs said on
the call.  Final Approval  The company is seeking final regulatory approval for the
sale of its 30 percent joint venture in AmLife Takaful Berhad, a
Malaysian life insurer, it said.  Friends Provident , which
Resolution acquired in 2009, agreed to pay 30 million pounds for
the stake in November 2008. Its strategy in Asia will be to
focus on wealthy individuals and ex-patriots, Briggs said.  Resolution is merging its board with subsidiary Friends
Life to simplify its management structure and improve its
corporate governance after the Financial Services Authority
warned that so-called externally managed companies may lose
their stock market listing.  As a result, the agreement with Resolution Operations will
be canceled and a termination fee agreed by the end of the first
quarter of 2013, Briggs said. That may require a shareholder
vote, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 