-- Reyes Faces Extra $8 Million in Income Taxes as Toronto Blue Jay
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-11-15T05:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/reyes-faces-extra-8-million-in-income-taxes-as-toronto-blue-jay.html
Jose Reyes ’s income tax bill could
surge by $8 million during the next six years if his trade to
the  Toronto Blue Jays  goes through, according to accounting firm
EisnerAmper LLP.  The Miami Marlins, who gave Reyes a guaranteed $106
million, six-year contract last December, are working on a trade
with the Blue Jays to purge $150 million in payroll, according
to the Miami Herald.  The four-time All-Star’s contract requires payments of $10
million in 2013, $16 million in 2014, $22 million in each of the
next three years and $4 million in 2018, New York-based
EisnerAmper said. The terms will be assumed by the Blue Jays if
the trade is completed.  “If all the above facts remain the same over the remaining
term of the 2011 Marlins contract, and Reyes became a Florida
resident and remained with the Marlins, he would have saved
nearly $8 million in total income tax,” the accountants said.  The trade also would send Josh Johnson,  Mark Buehrle , John Buck and Emilio Bonifacio to the Blue Jays, the Herald reported
yesterday, citing a person familiar with the trade who requested
anonymity.  In return, the Marlins would receive shortstop Yunel Escobar, infielder Adeiny Hechavarria, pitchers Henderson
Alvarez and Justin Nicolino, outfielder Jake Marisnick and one
of three catchers: J.P. Arencibia, Bobby Wilson or Jeff Mathis,
the Herald said.  Multiple Players  After signing free agents Reyes, Buehrle and Heath Bell
before the 2012 season, the Marlins finished 69-93 for last
place in the five-team  National League East , 29 games behind the
 Washington Nationals . They traded Bell to the  Arizona
Diamondbacks  last month.  The Marlins fired manager  Ozzie Guillen  on Oct. 23 after
their first season in a $515 million retractable-roof stadium.
Miami hired former catcher Mike Redmond Nov. 1 to succeed
Guillen. Redmond, 41, spent last season with the Blue Jays’
Class-A minor-league affiliate in Dunedin, Florida.  Counting the number of days Reyes would be playing for the
Blue Jays in  Canada , EisnerAmper determined the 29-year-old
shortstop would have to pay $2.1 million tax as a non-resident
on income of $4.2 million in Canadian source income.  Marlin Savings  Reyes still owns a house he bought in Nassau County, New
York, in February 2007 while playing for the  New York Mets ,
according to property tax records. Assuming he is a U.S. and New
York State resident taxpayer, his U.S. federal and state income
tax would total $2.72 million next year, EisnerAmper said. That
would be in addition to the Canadian tax.  “If in 2013 Reyes remained with the Marlins and became a
Florida resident, he would save $800,000 in combined net federal
and New York State income tax and the additional $134,000
Canadian provincial income tax savings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  