-- Rolling Stones Start 50th Birthday Bash With New Songs
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-11-15T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/rolling-stones-start-50th-birthday-bash-with-new-songs.html
The Rolling Stones’ new CD is aptly
titled “Grrr!”  That applies both to its content (only two unheard tracks
in a $145 box) and the online prices of their sellout shows.
Tickets are changing hands for $2,000.  Mick Jagger  is still repeatedly complaining of getting no
satisfaction even after 50 years. That hasn’t stopped him
spotting a golden opportunity to start up his money machine.  The portentous “Doom and Gloom” and “One More Shot” are
the first new songs in seven years, recorded in Paris. Both are
quintessential Stones. Swaggering lyrics, solid riffs and beats
go in a blender for yet another variant of the rock cocktail.  The 89-track, 6-disc version of “Grrr!” also includes 12
early demos from the 1960s, though most people will be coming to
this collection to catch up on why the Stones have endured.  Even in its shorter three-CD, 50-track form, “Grrr!” is a
chronologically sequenced hits set that’s more comprehensive
than many predecessors such as “Rolled Gold” or “40 Licks.”  While some songs are needlessly edited, the rabble-rousing
numbers still jump out of the speakers: “Get Off of My Cloud,”
“Honky Tonk Women,” “Brown Sugar.” It sounds best when they
turn down the volume a notch and get a little folky or bluesy --
“Little Red Rooster,” “As Tears Go By” or “Wild Horses.”  So far the tour to support the album consists of a handful
of dates in  London  and  Newark ,  New Jersey . While another concert
has just been added for  New York , “this may be the last time,”
as the words of one song go.  Pushing in the 70s  Of the groups marking their half-century, the Beatles of
course can’t reform, but Mick’s men, like the Beach Boys, are
pushing into their 70s. The Stones can pretty much charge what
they like -- and they do.  Some VIP tickets had a face value of more than $1,000 even
before touts got their hands on them. The most optimistic price
on eBay, for seats right by the stage, is $15,000: It remains to
be seen if anyone pays as much as this.  I expect the audience will be made up of the long-term
faithful, wealthy devotees and corporate-hospitality clients.  If you can’t make it to the shows, it’s worth catching up
with “Crossfire Hurricane,” premiered at the London Film
Festival and showing on U.S. TV. Drawing on similar video
material to  Martin Scorsese ’s “Shine a Light” and  Julien
Temple’s  “Stones at the Max,” this has  Keith Richards  trying
to remember the deadly 1969 Altamont festival and Jagger
recalling how the death of band founder  Brian Jones  still hurts.  Stone Memories  More memories are captured in “Charlie Is My Darling,” a
grainy documentary of a 1965 weekend tour of Ireland, and the
lavish photo book “Rolling Stones 50.” That follows a raft of
bios offering contrasting views of Jagger -- tabloid-journalism
style by Christopher Andersen and a sober account from Philip
Norman.  I’ve seen the Stones many times, so I look forward to
reporting back on the first London show and determining whether
they can still cut it. If you believe the reports, they still
sound tight. Perhaps best to avert the eyes from Sir Mick’s
leggings and “Keef’s” crazy hairdos. Sympathy for the Zimmer
frame? We’ll see.  The “Strolling Bones” bandwagon is still rolling, gathering
no moss, just a lot of money. People will be in ecstasy with the
final encores as Jumpin’ Jack Flash does it again.  The  Rolling Stones  play the O2 London on Nov. 25 and 29,
 Brooklyn ’s Barclays Center, New York, on Dec. 8 and the
Prudential Center Newark on Dec. 13 and 15.  Information:  http://www.rollingstones.com/   (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on tech.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/home/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 