-- Rubber Climbs to Two-Week High as Yen Drops on Japan Easing Call
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2012-11-15T07:58:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/rubber-climbs-to-two-week-high-as-yen-drops-on-japan-easing-call.html
Rubber advanced for a second day,
rising to the highest level in almost two weeks, as the yen
slumped to a six-month low on expectations a December vote will
hand power to the opposition, which favors unlimited easing.  Rubber for delivery in April jumped 2.1 percent to close at
251 yen a kilogram ($3,104 a metric ton) on the Tokyo Commodity
Exchange, the highest settlement for the most-active contract
since Nov. 2. Futures gained 1.9 percent this week, paring the
year’s loss to 4.7 percent.  The yen tumbled and Japanese shares jumped as opposition
leader Shinzo Abe said the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s benchmark rate should
be lowered to zero or below and pledged to raise public
spending if his party wins. Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said
yesterday he will dissolve parliament, spurring a vote Dec. 16.  “Japan’s election will establish a new cabinet that will
likely take a more aggressive stance on monetary easing and
economic stimulus,” Takaki Shigemoto, an analyst at research
company JSC Corp. in Tokyo, said by phone today.  Futures also gained as a rally in crude oil yesterday
boosted the appeal of natural rubber as an alternative to
synthetic products, he said. Oil traded near the highest level
in more than a week after Israel attacked the  Gaza Strip ,
raising concern unrest in the  Middle East  will disrupt supplies.  Rubber for May delivery gained 0.8 percent to 24,195  yuan 
($3,885) a ton on the Shanghai Futures Exchange. Thai rubber
free-on-board rose 2 percent to 91.40 baht ($2.98) a kilogram
today, according to the Rubber Research Institute of  Thailand .
Rains in southern Thailand, the largest plantation area in the
biggest exporter, supported prices, said Chaiwat Muenmee, an
analyst at Bangkok-based commodity broker DS Futures Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  