-- Rugby Board to Review Disciplinary Process After Thomson’s Ban
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-11-15T02:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/rugby-board-to-review-disciplinary-process-after-thomson-s-ban.html
The International Rugby Board will
review the disciplinary process that led to New Zealand’s  Adam
Thomson  receiving a one-week ban for stamping on the head of a
Scottish opponent in a Test match four days ago.  Thomson appeared yesterday before the IRB-appointed
judicial officer Jean-Noel Couraud, who ruled that his contact
with Alasdair Strokosch’s head was at the “lower end” of the
scale of the governing body’s sanctions. He took a week off the
penalty because of back-rower Thomson’s conduct at the hearing.  The punishment, described as “ludicrously lenient” by
former  England  hooker Brian Moore, contrasted with the eight-
week suspension handed down yesterday to Australia lock  Rob
Simmons  for a tip tackle in the Wallabies’ loss to  France  on Nov.
10. IRB Chief Executive Officer Brett Gosper said the governing
body would look at the Thomson decision.  “The IRB will review this case as it is a match under our
jurisdiction,” Gosper said in a Twitter post. “If we decide to
take action we will make it public.”  While Thomson will be available for selection against Wales
on Nov. 24 and England a week later, Simmons will miss the rest
of Australia’s tour of Europe.  IRB judicial officer Robert Williams, who heard Simmons’s
case in London, said in a statement that he determined the tip
tackle on France flanker Yannick Nyanga to be at the “high
end” of the IRB’s sanctions scale.  In a tip, or spear, tackle, an opponent is lifted, upended
and dropped or driven head first toward the ground.  Taking into account the period of close-season inactivity
following Australia’s tour, Simmons was banned until Feb. 24.
He’ll miss Test matches against England,  Italy  and  Wales .  Both players have the right of appeal, according to
separate statements announcing the sanctions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  