-- Russia’s Grain Imports Seen Rising to More Than 2 Million Tons
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-11-15T12:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/russia-s-grain-imports-seen-rising-to-more-than-2-million-tons.html
Russia , the world’s third-biggest
 wheat exporter  last season, will need to import more than 2
million metric tons of feed grain this season after drought
seared crops, the country’s Grain Producers’ Union said.  That compares with its estimate of about 2 million tons on
Nov. 1. The country usually imports about 800,000 tons of feed
grain, according to the union data.  “Farmers will have to choose between slaughtering
livestock or feeding it with seed grain in January,” Pavel Skurikhin, the union president, said in an e-mailed statement
today.  The  Agriculture Ministry  downgraded its grain crop forecast
yesterday to 71 million tons from October’s 71.7 million tons.
That compares with 94.2 million tons harvested in 2011,
according to its data.  Arkady Zlochevsky, Russia’s Grain Union president, said
yesterday that elevated cereal prices this year will leave
farmers with enough funds to buy high-quality seeds and
fertilizers and harvest more than 100 million tons if there’s
favorable weather in the coming season.  Skurikhin said high grain prices now won’t necessarily be
enough for a successful sowing campaign, “because farms will
physically have nothing to sell” later this season.  The government’s plans to increase the capital of the
Russian Agricultural bank, known as  Rosselkhozbank (RSHB) , by as much
as 40 billion rubles ($1.26 billion) will allow more lending to
farms and may improve the sowing and next year’s crop prospects,
Skurikhin said.  Wheat for December delivery rose 0.6 percent to $8.69 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade by 4:27 p.m. in Moscow.
It’s advanced 33 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  