-- S. Africa Credibility Damaged With Strikes, Gordhan Says
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-11-16T08:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/s-africa-credibility-damaged-with-strikes-unrest-gordhan-says.html
South Africa’s credibility with
investors has been hurt by the strikes that are limiting growth
in the continent’s largest economy and have led to two credit-
rating downgrades, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  The government and businesses are addressing the concerns
of ratings companies and the causes of the strikes in the mining
industry, Gordhan said yesterday in a speech in Johannesburg.  The strikes “have damaged the credibility of South
Africa,” Gordhan said. “It has created doubt in a certain
class of investors.”  South Africa’s economy is growing this year at the slowest
pace since a 2009 recession as strikes that started in platinum
mines and spread to gold operations cut output and exports. A
recession in  Europe  is also hurting demand for manufactured
exports. Walkouts have cost more than 10 billion rand ($1.1
billion) in lost mine output and will probably shave about 0.5
percentage point off economic growth, Gordhan has said.  About 3,000 workers at Lonmin Plc’s Marikana platinum mine
downed tools on Aug. 10 demanding better pay. More than 46
people died in clashes at the mine northwest of Johannesburg,
the worst mining violence since the end of apartheid. Workers at
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., Anglo American Platinum Ltd., Kumba Iron
Ore Ltd., farm workers and transport workers later went on
strike as well. The strike at Anglo American Platinum, the
world’s largest producer of the metal, ended yesterday.  Rating Downgrades  Moody’s Investors Service cut the nation’s credit rating
one level to Baa1 on Sept. 27, citing growing pressure on the
government to boost social spending in a nation where one in
four people don’t have jobs. Standard & Poor’s lowered the
rating one step to BBB, in line with Mexico, Russia and  Brazil ,
on Sept. 12, citing the nation’s widening budget deficit.  The rand has dropped 7.3 percent against the dollar since
Moody’s cut the nation’s rating, the worst performer among the
16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The currency rose 0.5
percent to 8.8855 per dollar as of 9:56 a.m. in Johannesburg
after falling to its lowest in three years yesterday.  The government lowered its forecast for economy growth to
2.5 percent on Oct. 25 from a previous estimate of 2.7 percent.  -- Editors: Jim Silver, Andrea Snyder, Vernon Wessels  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  