-- Tigers’ Cabrera, Giants Catcher Posey Win Baseball’s MVP Awards
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-11-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/san-francisco-giants-catcher-buster-posey-is-national-league-mvp.html
Miguel Cabrera  of the Detroit Tigers
and Buster Posey of the  San Francisco Giants , whose teams faced
off last month in the  World Series , won their leagues’ Most
Valuable Player awards.  Cabrera was selected as the American League’s MVP after
becoming the first Major League Baseball player in 45 years to
win the Triple Crown. Posey, 25, who won a batting title as well
as the 2012 Comeback Player of the Year award, took the National
League’s MVP honors yesterday.  “It was just happiness,” Posey said of his reaction when
he found out about the award while helping his mom run a school
charity event in their home town of Leesburg,  Georgia . “It is
an extremely humbling and gratifying accomplishment.”  Cabrera, 29, led the AL in batting average (.330), home
runs (44) and runs batted in (139), the first player to top a
league in all three categories since Carl Yastrzemski in 1967.  Cabrera, a third baseman, won the MVP award with 362 points
in balloting by the Baseball Writers’ Association of America.
Los Angeles Angels outfielder Mike Trout, who this week was
chosen unanimously as the AL Rookie of the Year, got 281 points.  “I thought it was going to be very close, because Trout
was unbelievable this season,” Cabrera said in a conference
call with reporters.  Trout, 21, who was seeking to became the third player to
win Rookie of the Year and Most Valuable Player in a single
season, had an AL-best 129 runs scored and 49 stolen bases along
with a .326 batting average with 30 homers and 83 RBIs.  Posey said he followed the AL MVP race between Cabrera and
Trout with a fan’s fascination.  Cano Fourth  “It intrigued everybody with what Cabrera did with the
Triple Crown, but on the flipside looking at Trout’s numbers
they just blow your mind,” he said in a conference call. “As a
fan of the game, it was a fun race to watch.”  Third baseman  Adrian Beltre  of the Texas Rangers was third
with 210 points, followed by second baseman  Robinson Cano  of the
New York Yankees, with 149 points, and Texas outfielder  Josh Hamilton , with 127.  Posey, who missed most of the 2011 season after breaking
his leg in a home-plate collision, batted .336 to lead the NL
and had 24 home runs and 103 runs batted in while playing 148
games and catching for a Giants rotation that had four pitchers
win at least 14 games.  Posey, the first Giant to take MVP honors since  Barry Bonds 
won it each year from 2001-04, led San Francisco to its second
World Series title in three years with a four-game sweep of the
Tigers in the championship round.  Posey won the NL award with 422 points. Milwaukee Brewers
outfielder  Ryan Braun , who won in 2011, was second with 285
points.  Pittsburgh Pirates outfielder Andrew McCutchen was third,
followed by St. Louis Cardinals catcher Yadier Molina and San
Diego Padres third baseman Chase Headley. Third baseman  David Wright  of the  New York Mets  tied for sixth with 86 points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  