-- Schaeuble Sees Decision on Greek Aid as CDU Allies Balk
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-11-15T15:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/schaeuble-sees-decision-on-greek-aid-as-cdu-allies-balk.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said a European decision on how to sustain  Greece ’s
finances is likely next week.  Schaeuble said euro-area policy makers are set to agree at
a Nov. 20 meeting on the “priority task” of how to close a
Greek financing gap that emerged last week. “We’ll resolve that
by Tuesday,” Schaeuble said at a conference in Berlin today.
Greece needs to finance a two-year extension in debt-reduction
targets.  Schaeuble’s need for speed contrasts with a demand by
senior members of his Christian Democratic Union party to see a
full report from Greece’s monitors, known as the troika, before
deciding on further payments. By the end of the year, Greece is
due 44.6 billion euros ($57 billion) in aid.  Leading CDU lawmakers said today that they will resist
pressure to make any snap decision how to help Greece until
they’ve “thoroughly” assessed a still-incomplete report of the
troika. “We won’t be put under any time pressure to decide
payments,” said the CDU’s finance spokesman and deputy chairman
in parliament, Michael Meister, in an interview today.  German lawmakers, whose authority over budgetary matters
was confirmed in court this year, want to scrutinize the
complete report, said Meister.  “If the troika report took months to compile, then any
decision on payments to Greece can’t be rushed, compromising
parliamentary democracy,” said Meister.  The lower chamber in Berlin will need three votes to
approve the outstanding payments to Greece, said  Norbert Barthle , the CDU’s budget spokesman, in a separate interview.  The Bild Zeitung newspaper said this week three suspended
loans due to Greece adding up to 44.6 billion euros would be
bundled into one parliamentary vote.  “I can’t imagine that will be the case as Greece is
seeking new terms for its bailout,” said Barthle. Payment of
8.6 billion euros in loans due in the fourth quarter and 5
billion euros from the third quarter will be decided in two
votes by the budget committee, while a tranche of 31.3 billion
euros will require a plenary session, said Barthle.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  