-- SEC Sued by Fired Investigator Who Alleged Ethical Lapses
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-15T22:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/sec-sued-by-fired-investigator-who-alleged-ethical-lapses.html
David Weber , a former U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission internal investigator fired
for allegedly carrying a firearm while on duty, sued the agency
for wrongful termination.  Weber, who was chief investigator in the SEC’s inspector
general’s office, is asking for $40 million in damages. His
suit, filed today in federal court in  Washington , argues that he
was terminated as part of a campaign to “cover up” and
“whitewash” disclosures of wrongdoing he was investigating.  “When David Weber began to uncover the depth of
dysfunction at the SEC, they fired him,” said his attorney,
Cary Hansel. “He has no intention of being silenced by threats
and false allegations.”  Weber was placed on paid leave by the SEC in May, shortly
after he raised allegations that ex-inspector general H.  David Kotz  may have had personal relationships that tainted probes on
the SEC’s handling of the Bernard Madoff and R. Allen Stanford
Ponzi schemes. Weber was fired on Oct. 31.  The lawsuit called the gun allegations “baseless” and
said he kept a legally registered firearm in his car.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment on the
allegations and said the agency would respond in court.  The 75-page lawsuit alleges that people involved in firing
Weber had conflicts of interest because they were subjects of
investigations being supervised by Weber. The court filing
contains extensive detail on the probes that Weber was pursuing
in his job.  Hacker Convention  In one instance, Weber was looking into the possibility
that the SEC mishandled sensitive data it obtained from the
major  stock exchanges , the filing said. SEC laptops, Weber
found, didn’t have virus protections, firewalls or encryption
programs. They were also taken to foreign countries and a well-
known hacker convention in  Las Vegas , according to the lawsuit.  After Weber raised his concerns about the data to senior
SEC management, including Chairman  Mary Schapiro , he was barred
from the agency and placed on leave, according to the lawsuit.  On that May morning, Weber was on the way to work when he
was tipped off by a colleague that “many security armed
officers had been posted around the office and were looking for
him,” according to the lawsuit. Weber then picked up his
private attorney and went to the agency where, according to the
filing, he was surrounded and prevented from entering the
building.  Schapiro is named as a defendant in the filing.  Kotz Resignation  Weber’s original complaints prompted the SEC to bring in
 David Williams , the inspector general of the U.S. Postal
Service, to conduct a review. Williams concluded that Kotz
violated ethics rules by overseeing probes that involved people
with whom he has “personal relationships.” Kotz resigned in
January amid questions about his tactics and conduct.  Williams also said in his report that he didn’t find any
evidence that indicated Weber’s conduct was improper or raised
security concerns.  The case is Weber v. U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, 12-cv-01850, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  