-- Serious Mortgage Delinquencies Fall to Lowest Since 2008
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-11-15T16:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/serious-mortgage-delinquencies-fall-to-lowest-since-2008.html
The rate of  seriously delinquent 
U.S. mortgages, a proxy for the so-called shadow inventory of
homes, fell to the lowest since 2008 as  employment  improved and
recovering housing demand made it easier for homeowners to sell.  The percentage of home loans that were more than  90 days 
behind or in the foreclosure process fell to 7.03 percent in the
third quarter from 7.31 percent in the previous three months,
the  Mortgage Bankers Association  said in a report today. The
rate was 7.89 percent a year earlier.  Delinquent homeowners are catching up on payments or
finding alternatives to foreclosure as the economy improves.
That’s helping to reduce shadow inventory -- typically defined
as homes with seriously delinquent mortgages, in foreclosure or
held by banks and not for sale -- and limiting the prospect that
distressed properties will flood the market and depress  prices .  “The drop of the shadow inventory is a real positive for
the housing market because it reduces concerns that this backlog
will be with us,” Michael Fratantoni, the Mortgage Bankers
Association’s vice president of research and economics, said in
a telephone interview today from  Washington .  The serious-delinquency rate was the lowest since the
fourth quarter of 2008, when it was 6.3 percent. The percentage
of loans in the  foreclosure  process at the end of the third
quarter was 4.07 percent, down 0.2 percentage point from June.
That was the biggest drop in records dating to 1979, Fratantoni
said.  Tight Supply  More borrowers were able to make their monthly payments as
 unemployment rate  dropped to 7.8 percent in September, the
lowest since January 2009. The federal Home Affordable Refinance
Program is enabling Americans with little  home equity  to
refinance, while delinquent homeowners who want to sell are
finding it easier to unload properties as the supply of houses
for sale remains tight, Fratantoni said.  In some areas, “inventory levels of properties on the
market have gotten to such a point that you’re seeing buyers
snap up anything that comes on the market at a rapid rate,” he
said.  At the end of September, 2.32 million existing homes were
available for sale, 20 percent fewer than a year earlier,
according to the National Association of Realtors. That
represented a 5.9-month  supply , the lowest since March 2006,
near the peak of the housing boom.  The decline in inventory is helping to boost home selling
prices as buyers compete for properties. U.S. home prices jumped
5 percent in September from a year earlier, the biggest increase
since July 2006, data provider CoreLogic Inc. said.  Delinquencies Down  The overall U.S. mortgage  delinquency rate  -- the share of
loans at least one month late -- fell to 7.4 percent in the
third quarter on a seasonally adjusted basis from 7.58 percent
in the previous three months, the Mortgage Bankers Association
said.  States such as  California  and  Arizona  that don’t require
court approval for foreclosures are seeing the most rapid
improvement in delinquencies, while judicial states such as
 Florida ,  New Jersey , and New York are falling behind, Fratantoni
said. The foreclosure rate for judicial states was 6.6 percent
in the third quarter compared with 2.4 percent in non-judicial
states, the largest gap going back to at least 2006, he said.  In Florida, 13 percent of loans are in foreclosure, the
highest level in the nation, followed by New Jersey with 8.9
percent,  Illinois  at 6.8 percent and New York at 6.5 percent.
The share of loans in foreclosure was 2.6 percent in California
and 2.5 percent in Arizona, more than a percentage point below
the U.S. average, he said.  Short Sales  Lenders started foreclosure proceedings on 0.9 percent of
mortgages in the third quarter, down from 0.96 percent in the
previous three months and 1.1 percent a year earlier. That
indicates banks are increasingly making use of short sales, when
homes are sold for less than their mortgage balance,  Paul Diggle , property economist with Capital Economics Ltd. in
 London , said in a note today.  The U.S. shadow inventory as of the second quarter fell 10
percent from a year earlier to 2.3 million homes, representing a
six-month supply, according to a report from CoreLogic. The
company includes seriously delinquent loans, homes in
foreclosure and bank-owned properties that haven’t been listed
in its definition of shadow supply.  “The shadow inventory is becoming increasingly less of
threat to the housing recovery,” Diggle said in a phone
interview. “It’s been clear for a while now that the shadow
inventory is not going to flood onto the market quickly and
cause another downturn.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  