-- Shell to Start Chinese Shale Gas Project Development From 2014
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-11-15T09:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/shell-to-start-chinese-shale-gas-project-development-from-2014.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s
largest oil company, said its shale gas project in China will
require billions of dollars in investment from 2014 before it
can supply the domestic market.  Along with China National Petroleum Corp., Shell plans to
take a final  investment decision  by the end of next year after
carrying out exploration work at the Fushun-Yongchuan block in
the Sichuan basin. The partners have so far drilled 24 wells and
plan a further 14 next year, said Maarten Wetselaar, executive
vice president of Shell Upstream International.  “Before you have serious shale gas production you need
hundreds of wells,” Wetselaar said in an interview this week.
The project will require “billions, it’s a very substantial”
investment.  Chinese may hold 1,275 trillion cubic feet of technically
recoverable gas, almost 50 percent more than that of the U.S.,
according to a U.S. Energy Information Administration forecast
in April. The nation’s gas demand will rise five times through
2030, according to Shell’s estimates.  “In China we’ve been able to go down faster than even in
the U.S. relatively speaking,”  Andy Brown , Shell’s director of
international production, said in an interview last month. “Our
costs have come down more dramatically as we’ve drilled more
wells, but still got some way to go.”  Shell’s Chief Financial Officer Simon Henry in February
forecast that China’s shale gas potential could be “very
powerful.” In March, Shell signed the first shale-gas
production sharing contract in the country covering an area of
about 3,500 square kilometres (1,350 square miles).  ‘High Hopes’  “Chinese government has high hopes for shale gas and is
putting a lot energy policy behind it,” Wetselaar said.  China will need to extend pipelines to transport gas to
customers, Matthias Bichsel, the company’s global director of
projects and technology, said in an interview in Abu Dhabi Nov
11.  “It will take a little longer than it would in the U.S.,”
where the pipeline grid is in place, Bichsel said. “Though
 China  is very good at building infrastructure quickly, so I
would not want to commit on a timeframe.”  Shell operates the  Changbei  gas field, its largest
production project in China. In July, Shell and CNPC agreed on
the new development phase for the field to increase pumping from
a current plateau rate of 320 million cubic feet a day of tight
gas, which is difficult to recover.  “It takes time before we could get substantial volumes
from China shale gas and tight gas,” Brown said. “There will
also be a quite significant need for import of LNG” to meet
expanding local demand for energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  