-- Sierra Leone Election Caps Shift From Civil War to Economic Boom
-- B y   S i l a s   G b a n d i a   a n d   E m i l y   B o w e r s
-- 2012-11-15T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/sierra-leone-election-caps-shift-from-civil-war-to-economic-boom.html
Sierra Leonean President Ernest Bai Koroma is seeking re-election after he introduced policies that
lured more foreign investment and helped the country become sub-
Saharan  Africa ’s fastest-growing economy.  Koroma, 59, faces eight challengers including Julius Maada
Bio of the Sierra Leone People’s Party, which ruled the country
before Koroma came to office in 2007. None of the candidates
will probably secure the 55 percent needed for a first-round
win, said Jean-Baptiste Bouzard, Africa analyst with Bath, U.K.-
based risk-analysis company Maplecroft. An expanding economy and
support from his Temne ethnic group, the country’s largest,
should give Koroma the edge in a runoff, he said.  “Koroma’s economic achievements during his first term, his
strong support base among the Temne ethnic group, and his
effective use of political alliances are expected to secure
victory,” he said in an e-mailed response to questions Nov. 13.  Sierra Leone’s $2.2 billion economy will expand 21.3
percent this year and 7.5 percent in 2013, fueled by diamond
mining and iron-ore production by London-based  African Minerals
Ltd. (AMI)  and  London Mining Plc (LOND) , according to the  International
Monetary Fund . Foreign-direct investment soared to $3 billion so
far this year from $200 million in 2007, Koroma said in an
interview in Freetown, the capital, on Nov. 10.  The West African nation of 6 million people, founded as a
British colony and a home for former slaves in 1808, gained
notoriety during the 1991-2002 civil war for the tactic used by
Revolutionary United Front rebels of chopping off the hands and
legs of civilians and using child soldiers.  Results from the election will be announced next week.  Economic Boom  Koroma, leader of the All People’s Congress, may have “an
edge looking at the GDP growth, drop in inflation and investment
ventures in the mining and agricultural sectors that have
created jobs,” Victor Koroma, chairman of the Freetown-based
Civil Society Consultative Forum, said in an interview.  Inflation slowed to 11.6 percent in September, the lowest
this year, according to Statistics  Sierra Leone , with the rate
forecast to average 13.7 percent this year compared with 18.5
percent a year earlier, IMF data shows.  If Koroma wins, he’s likely to continue programs put in
place during his first term, with priority on infrastructure and
energy, said Bouzard.  Sierra Leone remains among the world’s poorest nations,
ranking 180th out of 187 countries on the United Nations
Development Programme’s Human Development Index, which measures
indicators such as  life expectancy and income. At the end of
the civil war a decade ago, Sierra Leone was at the bottom of
the HDI table.  British Troops  The conflict killed at least 50,000 people and forced 2
million to flee their homes. It ended after British troops sent
by U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair  to evacuate foreigners were
intervened to defeat the rebels.  In April,  Charles Taylor , the former president of
neighboring Liberia, was found guilty by the  International
Criminal Court  for his role in aiding the rebels in Sierra
Leone. He was sentenced to 50 years in prison.  During the election campaign, SLPP and APC supporters
clashed in pockets of violence in the country’s east and south,
according to Control Risks, the London-based risk consultancy.
Ten people were injured in the eastern diamond-mining region of
Kono on Oct. 28 and party activists clashed in the Southern
province town of Bo on Nov. 2, the risk advisory group said in a
note to clients.  Violence  “While a post-election dispute over the results has the
potential to act as a catalyst for renewed violence, the state
apparatus should be capable of restoring order,” said
Maplecroft’s Bouzard. “The risk of violence spiralling out of
control appears to be low.”  The government will deploy soldiers to ensure peace in the
vote, Koroma said. “The elections will be peaceful,” he said.  This year’s campaign has been less tense than in 2007, with
parties being allowed to hold rallies in strongholds of their
opponents and candidates urging peace, said Koroma of the civil
society group.  Koroma’s decision to retain Vice President Samuel Sam
Sumana as his running mate after he was linked to two corruption
investigations this year “illustrates the primacy of domestic
political imperatives over concerns about the government’s
international reputation,” according to Control Risks. Sumana’s
hometown of Koidu is the capital of the Kono region that is
considered a swing area and supported the SLPP in 2007, the
group said.  Mining Contracts  Bio, a Mende, the country’s second-biggest ethnic group,
has pledged to tackle government corruption, accusing Koroma of
putting “immunity” around “sacred cows,” according to
remarks on his campaign  website . The 48-year-old former military
ruler has also pledged to review mining contracts signed by
Koroma’s government.  “We are not yet there on people voting solely on issues,”
civil society’s Koroma said. “Maybe it works for the elites,
but a good number of people still pay attention to regional and
tribal attachments to determine who to vote for.”  Polls open at 7 a.m. tomorrow, with final results released
a week after the vote, according to the electoral commission,
based in Freetown, the capital. Ballots will also be cast for
the 112 elected members of Parliament.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emily Bowers in Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
Silas Gbandia in Freetown at 
 sgbandia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  