-- Singapore Exchange Seeks Infrastructure Bonds as IPOs Slump
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-11-15T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/singapore-exchange-seeks-infrastructure-bonds-as-ipos-slump.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , Southeast
 Asia ’s largest  bourse operator , is seeking to become a venue for
infrastructure bonds as a slump in initial public offerings of
shares threatens earnings.  Local-currency debt issuance in Singapore, one of seven
nations with AAA ratings and stable credit outlooks, reached a
record S$30.7 billion ($25 billion) so far this year, beating an
annual high of S$24.7 billion in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg News. The amount raised in Singapore IPOs
slumped 62 percent this year compared with the same period last
year. SGX reported a 19 percent drop in first-quarter revenue
from equities trading.  The prospect of lower borrowing costs may attract regional
debt issuers to Singapore, where the average  yield  on non-
government debt is 2.59 percent, according to HSBC Holdings Plc
data. Local-currency sovereign bonds in  India  yield 8.3 percent
on average,  Indonesia ’s 5.9 percent and  Malaysia ’s 3.45 percent.
Asia needs $8 trillion to finance new infrastructure facilities
through 2020, the Asian Development Bank estimates.  “There are probably 100 cities in Asia that require a
metro, better sewerage and better roads,” Muthukrishnan Ramaswami, president of SGX, said in an interview with  Bloomberg
News  on Nov. 14. “There has to be bond fundraising in Indonesia,
Malaysia and India. Those will come here as long as they look
for cross-border investors. We’re working towards that.”  Increasing Allure  Bond markets will have to evolve to cater to this growing
need for debt financing as bank loans become harder to obtain,
Ramaswami said. Bank lending in Asia excluding  Japan  tumbled
28.7 percent from a year earlier to $207.8 billion so far this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Financial institutions such as the ADB and  World Bank ’s
International Financial Corp. are looking at ways to make
infrastructure-related bond issues attractive to investors,
Ramaswami said. Allowing easier access to capital will help fund
$1 trillion of roads and railway projects in India and $12 
billion of seaports that Indonesia needs to build by 2025 as it 
woos foreign investors in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy.  Singapore Exchange  wants a bigger slice of Asian bond
issuance as revenue from listing fees and IPOs comes under
pressure from declining volumes and overseas competition. SGX
shares have fallen 31 percent since it began a failed bid in
October 2010 to take over ASX Ltd.,  Australia ’s bourse operator.  “Asia has to take on more debt,” Ramaswami said. “The
infrastructure funding that is needed for that is enormous.”  Growth Drivers  Since becoming the exchange’s chief executive officer in
almost three years ago, Magnus Bocker has been seeking growth
drivers as share trading volumes tumbled. Bocker tried to boost
equities turnover by introducing American depositary receipts of
Asian companies in 2010 and rolling out the world’s fastest
trading engine last year. His most ambitious move was the
proposed A$8.4 billion ($8.7 billion) acquisition of ASX, which
Australian regulators rejected in April 2011.  “He has improved our profile,” Ramaswami said. “Globally,
people recognize our strengths a lot more than say five years
ago. Five years ago, our challenge was to maintain our internal
stability whereas now we have the infrastructure in place.”  Still, SGX’s annual profit has fallen 39 percent since
peaking at S$478.3 million in the year ended June 2008 as IPOs
slumped. Companies raised $2.7 billion from initial share sales
on the SGX so far this year, down 62 percent from a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Malaysian IPOs  By contrast, IPOs on Bursa Malaysia raised $6.8 billion
this year, near the $7.05 billion record raised in 2010, the
data show. Offerings from  IHH Healthcare Bhd. (IHH) , a hospital
operator partly-owned by Khazanah Nasional Bhd, helped make
 Kuala Lumpur  the world’s fourth-largest center for IPOs in 2012.  SGX’s efforts to woo international companies suffered a
setback when  Manchester United Ltd. (MANU) , the English soccer team,
opted in August to list in  New York . Formula One’s stock sale in
the city, where it hosts the sport’s first night race, has been
put on hold. James Koh, an analyst at Maybank Kim Eng Holdings
in Singapore, said bonds may not immediately replace the
shortfall from IPOs.  “The size of bond offerings are naturally bigger than
those of share sales,” he said. “Bonds are much less liquid
than equities. It probably won’t be a significant contributor
within the next three years.”  Incentives, Rules  Investor-friendly rules that include tax incentives and
dividend payouts of at least 90 percent have allowed real estate
investment trusts listed on SGX to become the world’s best
performing, returning an average 48 percent this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Singapore  now has 28 listed REITs
10 years after the first, CapitaMall Trust, started trading.  To make Singapore a more attractive listing destination,
the bourse has allowed stocks and exchange-traded funds to be 
listed in two currencies since April. Hutchison Port Holdings 
Trust, which completed an IPO denominated in U.S. dollars in 
March last year, started trading in both U.S. and Singapore 
dollars on April 2 of this year. Singapore’s Ministry of 
Finance said on Oct. 3 it plans to allow companies to issue 
shares with multiple classes and non-voting rights as part of 
proposed amendments to the Companies Act.  “Markets are cyclical,” Ramaswami said. “It’s very easy
to cut back now and scrimp on investments but then you’re going
to be scrambling when markets pick up again. In our case, we
won’t be scrambling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  