-- Singapore October Home Sales Fall 26% After Surging in September
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-11-15T05:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/singapore-october-home-sales-fall-26-after-surging-in-september.html
Singapore home sales fell 26 percent
in October from the previous month, when sales jumped to the
highest in more than three years.  Home sales last month slid to 1,948 units from 2,621 units
in September, according to data released by the  Urban
Redevelopment Authority  today. Singapore  home prices  reached a
record high in the third quarter amid low  interest rates ,
raising concerns of a housing bubble.  The  property market  may get “bubbly” even with slow
growth and the government won’t allow prices to outstrip gains
in incomes, Finance Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam  has said.
The Monetary Authority of Singapore told banks on Oct. 5 to
restrict home-loan maturities “to curb continued upward
pressure on residential property prices,” in its latest attempt
to avert a housing bubble.  Sales last month were boosted by suburban projects. Eco
Properties Pte sold 149 units last month in the east, while TG
Master Pte sold 309 units of 420 marketed in its Skies Miltonia
project in the north, the data showed.  Singapore has been attempting to rein in prices since 2009,
when the government barred interest-only loans for some housing
projects and stopped allowing developers to absorb interest
payments for apartments still being built.  The government in December last year imposed an additional
stamp duty on foreigners and corporations buying property, and
additional levies on permanent residents buying a second home
and citizens purchasing a third residential property.  Private home sales next year may drop to 16,000 units from
22,000 units this year, said David Neubronner, the head of Jones
Lang LaSalle’s Singapore residential business.  The government in September said it plans to cap the number
of homes that can be developed in suburban projects as it seeks
to curb the increasing trend of so-called shoebox apartments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  