-- Slovakia Plans to Sell Samurai Bond to Diversify Funding
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2012-11-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/slovakia-plans-samurai-bond-to-diversify-funding-official-says.html
Slovakia is planning to sell its
first yen-denominated bonds in more than a decade in 2013 to
spread out financing sources as the sovereign-debt crisis
continues to hurt the euro area, a government official said.  The euro-region member since 2009 may want to raise the
equivalent of about 400 million euros ($511 million) in the sale
of Samurai bonds, Deputy Finance Minister Vazil Hudak said. The
sale will probably take place in May, after the end of the
fiscal year in  Japan , he said. The yield on the benchmark 4
percent 2020 euro-denominated note fell to 2.349 percent
yesterday from 5.458 percent at the start of this year.  “The strategy is to diversify our sources of funding,”
Hudak said in interview in Bratislava, Slovakia, yesterday. “We
discussed a potential issue in  Tokyo  last month and the response
was good. So we will try a Samurai bond.”  The country, rated with the sixth-best investment grade at
Moody’s Investors Service and Standard and Poor’s, is counting
on investors being confident it can meet the European Union’s
 budget-deficit  targets for next year. The government on Nov. 7
raised 1.25 billion euros in 12-year notes, the longest maturity
ever for an international bond by the country.  Slovakia is joining  Poland , which has yet to set a target
date for euro adoption, in tapping the yen market. EU’s largest
eastern economy on Nov. 2 sold 66 billion yen ($813 million) in
five- and 15-year securities, twice the amount planned.  Economic Outlook  The Slovak economy is set to advance 2.6 percent this year,
the fastest pace in the euro region, and 2 percent in 2013, the
second-fastest after  Estonia , the European Commission estimates.
The growing economy makes it easier for the administration of
Prime Minister  Robert Fico  to cut the budget deficit to the
required 3 percent of gross domestic product next year from a
targeted 4.6 percent in 2012.  The 12-year benchmark, which was priced at 150 basis
points, or 1.5 percentage-point, above the mid-swap rate, helped
the  Finance Ministry  build a cash buffer of about 4.8 billion
euros to cover debt maturing early next year, Hudak said.  The country’s borrowing needs for next year are about 9
billion euros, he said. The number compares with 5.7 billion
euros in Slovak debt securities maturing in 2013, including 3.1
billion euros due in the first quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Debt Auction  In addition to domestic debt auctions, the country, which
is rated A2 by Moody’s and A by S&P, plans “several”
syndicated sales, Hudak said without elaborating. The yen bond
would represent the first borrowing in the Japanese currency
since 1998, when Slovakia raised 15 billion yen for three years.  The newly adopted constitutional law, which calls for
automatic sanctions should debt exceed 53 percent of GDP, is
limiting the government’s ability to take advantage of declining
yields and borrow more to pre-finance, Hudak said.  Ardal, the state debt-management agency, will probably
accelerate bond buybacks to ensure state debt won’t exceed this
threshold as of end-2012, Hudak said.  “We don’t plan any significant issuance in the near
future,” he said. “We have relatively narrow room for maneuver
because of the debt-ceiling legislation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  