-- Solve Fiscal Cliff by Year-End or Gridlock Returns, Dodd Says
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-11-15T00:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/solve-fiscal-cliff-by-year-end-or-gridlock-returns-dodd-says.html
President  Barack Obama  and Congress
need to negotiate a solution to the so-called fiscal cliff of
tax increases and spending cuts before the end of the year or
risk a return to partisan gridlock, according to former Senator
Christopher Dodd of  Connecticut .  “You have about six or eight weeks to get this right,”
Dodd, chairman and chief executive officer of Motion Picture
Association of America Inc., said at FX12, a foreign-exchange
conference hosted by Bloomberg LP in New York yesterday. “If
you don’t, I guarantee you people will go back into their
respective corners, solidify positions, regain their footing,
and it’ll get very, very hard to get back.”  The fiscal cliff refers to the $600 billion of tax
increases and spending cuts that will kick in automatically in
2013 unless Congress fails to break a partisan deadlock and
reach agreement on the nation’s budget deficit. Failure to reach
an agreement risks pushing the U.S. back into a recession.  The dollar fell as much as 0.6 percent to $1.2778 per euro
yesterday, the biggest decline since Oct. 30, after the minutes
from the latest Federal Reserve meeting showed a number of
officials favored additional monetary stimulus next year.  The greenback’s status as a haven may be challenged by the
approaching fiscal cliff as investors reduce dollar holdings
linked to the U.S.’s mounting economic burden.  A contingency plan may be necessary in case the U.S.
government is unable to completely address all aspects of the
fiscal cliff, according to former Bear Stearns Cos. Chief
Executive Officer Alan Schwartz.  “The real test to me is what’s the right sort of mechanism
to put in place in case we can’t get all the details of this
right in six to eight weeks,” said Schwartz, executive chairman
of Guggenheim Partners LLC. “We have to come up with a
framework that is a type of backstop that we say goes into place
unless we think of something better.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  