-- Sony Shares Plunge After Convertible Bond Offering: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-11-15T05:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/sony-shares-plunge-after-convertible-bond-offer-tokyo-mover.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , the Japanese electronics
maker reeling from four consecutive  annual losses , fell to the
lowest level in more than 32 years in Tokyo trading after
offering its first convertible bonds in almost a decade.  The  shares dropped  as much as 11 percent to 772 yen and
changed hands at 791 yen as of 2:23 p.m. in Tokyo. That extended
the year-to-date slump to 44 percent, valuing the company at 780
billion yen ($9.7 billion).  The maker of Bravia TVs offered 150 billion yen of zero-
coupon  convertible bonds  maturing in five years with a
conversion price of 957 yen, or 10 percent above the stock’s
closing price in Tokyo yesterday. The proceeds will be used to
 fund acquisitions  and expand its imaging-sensor facilities, the
company said in a statement.  “There’s a risk of dilution of equity given the amount on
offer, relative to Sony’s market capitalization,” said Hideki Yasuda, an  analyst  at Ace Securities Co. in  Tokyo  with an
underperform rating on the company. “If you consider the
potential for the stock to rise, shareholders may be thinking
the upside is uncertain. That’s probably behind today’s decline
in share price.”  The first convertible bond sale from Sony since 2003 comes
as the maker of Walkman music players is projected to lose money
at its main television business for a ninth straight year. Chief
Executive Officer Kazuo Hirai is cutting 10,000 jobs and selling
assets as he focuses on mobile devices, games and digital
imaging to turn around the company amid competition with  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)   Dilution Risk  The zero-coupon notes due in November 2017 may be exchanged
for stock if Sony’s shares rise above the conversion price.  The sale would add 156.7 million shares, or 15.6 percent of
shares currently outstanding, if all were converted,  Yuji Fujimori , an analyst at Barclays Plc, said in his report today.  “We expect the share price to remain below the conversion
price in the near term owing to concerns about dilution risk,”
Tokyo-based Fujimori said.  Sony’s American depositary receipts  fell  8.8 percent to
$9.82 at the close in  New York  yesterday, the lowest level since
 June 1987 (SNE) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The market valuation of Sony, worth more than $120 billion
in 2000, compares with the $505 billion valuation of Apple and
$180 billion of Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung. Shares of
Sony’s domestic competitors  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and  Sharp Corp. (6753)  have
also declined in value this year.  Credit Default Swap  Sony’s credit risk declined to the lowest in almost two
months after reaching a record high earlier this month.  The cost to insure the debt of Sony for five years against
non-payment dropped 30.6 basis points to 391 basis points as of
1:06 p.m. in Tokyo, according to intraday prices from data
provider CMA. That’s set for the lowest closing level since Sept.
19, CMA prices in New York show.  Sony’s long-term  credit rating  have been downgraded twice
by Moody’s Investors Service since August, while  Standard &
Poor’s  cut its rating once in September as the maker of Walkman
music players struggles without a hit product to challenge Apple.  The maker of PlayStation game consoles will use 60 billion
yen of the proceeds to invest in CMOS image sensors, 50 billion
yen to repay short-term debts for acquiring shares of  Olympus
Corp. (7733) , 10 billion yen to repay borrowings for acquiring Gaikai
Inc. and 30 billion yen to repay bonds maturing next year,
according to the statement.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Nomura
Holdings Inc. and SMBC Nikko Capital Markets Ltd. were hired to
manage the sale, which will be in overseas markets excluding the
U.S., according to Sony’s statement yesterday.  Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Inc. and Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. were also hired as underwriters, according to a regulatory
filing today.  Sony last sold  bonds  in March, when it raised 55 billion
yen from a two-part offering including 45 billion yen of 0.664
percent five-year notes, not convertible to shares, priced at a
spread of 36 basis points more than government debt, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  