-- Sony’s Debt Risk Falls as Convertible Bond Wards off Junk Threat
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2012-11-15T06:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/sony-s-debt-risk-falls-to-two-month-low-on-convertible-bond-sale.html
Sony Corp. (6758) ’s credit risk declined to
the lowest in almost two months on speculation the Japanese
electronics maker’s sale of convertible bonds will help it avoid
more debt rating cuts.  The cost to insure the bonds of Sony for five years against
non-payment dropped 32.6 basis points to 389 basis points as of
14:48 p.m. in Tokyo, according to intra-day prices from data
provider CMA. That’s set for the lowest closing level since
Sept. 19, CMA prices in  New York  show.  Sony, reeling from four straight annual losses, has been
 downgraded  by six levels to Baa3, the lowest investment grade,
by Moody’s Investors Service as the maker of Walkman music
players struggles without a product to challenge Apple Inc. and
Samsung Electronics Co. The company sold 150 billion yen ($1.87
billion) of debt as Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  reduces
10,000 jobs and sells assets to focus on mobile devices, games
and digital imaging to revive the company.  “This should be better than selling straight bonds that
are 100 percent debt,” said  Mana Nakazora , Tokyo-based chief
credit analyst at BNP Paribas SA. “If they had chosen straight
bonds, the cost could have been much higher, and that would have
been negative for ratings.”  The company offered the convertible bonds instead of
straight debt to minimize interest payments with a zero coupon,
 Mami Imada , a spokeswoman for Tokyo-based Sony said today.  Funding Acquisitions  Sony sold the securities due November 2017 to fund
acquisitions and the expansion of imaging-sensor facilities, the
company said in a statement yesterday. The conversion price was
set at 957 yen, or 10 percent above the closing price of its
stock yesterday in Tokyo. The  shares  dropped as much as 11
percent to 772 yen today, and closed at 793 yen on the  Tokyo 
Stock Exchange.  The company’s first sale of such  debt  since 2003 “enables
us to raise a significant amount of long-term money at once,”
Imada said. She declined to comment on the credit-default swaps,
citing Sony’s policy not to speak on market movements.  The extra yield investors demand to own Sony’s 45 billion
yen of 0.664 percent bonds due March 2017 rather than government
debt fell half a basis point yesterday to 154, according to JS
Price data. The notes were priced in March at a spread of 36
basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sony’s
rating has been lowered from Aa3 in 2003 by Moody’s.  Sharp, Panasonic  Sharp Corp. (6753)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  also expect to lose a
combined 1.2 trillion yen in the fiscal year ending March, as
competition from abroad and the yen near a postwar high erodes
the value of their overseas earnings.  “Selling 150 billion yen of convertible bonds reminds us
of what’s going on with Sharp, which is facing repayment of 200
billion yen of convertibles,” BNP Paribas’ Nakazora said.
Sharp’s equity-linked debt comes due in September 2013,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “In this regard, Sony paid attention to the deterioration
of their balance sheet,” BNP Paribas’ Nakazora said. “To see
whether this financing is good or not, we need to see the impact
on their revenues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  