-- Soros Joined Och-Ziff Betting on AIG Before Sandy Struck
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-11-15T21:19:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/soros-joined-och-ziff-betting-on-aig-before-sandy-struck-u-s-.html
Billionaire investor George Soros
and  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC (OZM) , the hedge-fund firm
with $31.8 billion under management, added stakes in  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  in the third quarter before superstorm
Sandy devastated the Eastern U.S.  The family office of Soros, 82, disclosed an investment of
15.2 million shares in the New York-based insurer as of Sept.
30, according to a filing yesterday. Och-Ziff tripled its stake
to 33.2 million shares, it said in a filing.  AIG has fallen 16 percent from a 20-month closing high of
$37.21 on Oct. 18. The firm hasn’t announced losses from the
storm that made landfall Oct. 29, killing at least 100 people in
the U.S. Sandy caused insured losses of $20 billion to $25
billion, according to Risk Management Solutions Inc.  “With  Hurricane Sandy  remaining an overhang for the group,
primary insurers are now trading at levels well off recent
highs,” Josh Stirling, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., wrote in a research note. “This trading is amplified by
the fundamental uncertainty around the reasonable range of
industry losses.”  AIG advanced 1.8 percent to $31.24 at 4:01 p.m. in New
York, the most among 22 companies on the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Insurance Index. (S5INSU)  The shares have gained 35 percent this year.
Flooding from the storm displaced the insurer from its Manhattan
headquarters.  Government Stake  The U.S.  cut its stake  in AIG this year after a 2008
bailout that swelled to $182.3 billion. The Treasury Department
sold $20.7 billion of shares in the most recent offering in
September, trimming its holding to 16 percent from a majority.
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  is seeking to improve
results to attract private investors.  AIG may benefit as prices rise for commercial coverage and
the firm makes progress in efforts to boost underwriting,
Stirling said in the note.  “AIG’s investors will, in due course, be rewarded
handsomely for their foresight,” he wrote.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Och-Ziff at Sard
Verbinnen & Co., and  Michael Vachon , a Soros spokesman, declined
to comment. Soros and Och-Ziff also disclosed AIG options. Matt
Gallagher, an AIG spokesman, declined to comment.  Soros’s firm managed more than $20 billion in the 1990s
when it was the world’s largest hedge-fund group. Soros and
chief strategist  Stanley Druckenmiller  made about $1 billion
from the 1992 drop in the British pound after the U.K.
government abandoned a peg to a basket of European currencies.  Vanguard Group  Soros returned money to investors last year and focused the
firm on managing assets for his family.  Vanguard Group  Inc., the largest mutual-fund manager, also
added AIG shares, including in its oldest fund. The actively
managed  Wellington Fund (VWELX)  invests about two-thirds of its $64.4
billion in net assets in stocks and the rest in bonds, according
to Vanguard’s website. It has returned 3.8 percent annually over
the past five years, beating 88 percent of similar funds, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Third Point LLC, the New York-based hedge fund run by
 Daniel Loeb , and Perry Capital, founded by  Richard Perry , also
reported AIG stakes in the quarter, according to filings
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  