-- Spain Acts to Stem Repossessions, Create Bank of Cheap Housing
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-11-15T16:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/spain-to-pass-decree-on-foreclosures-after-opposition-talks-fail.html
Spain ’s government passed a decree
to prevent low-income families being evicted for defaulting on
their mortgages, and plans to create a stock of homes that can
be rented out cheaply.  The two-year freeze on evictions applies to families
earning less than 1,600 euros ($2,048) per month that also meet
other conditions such as having a child under three, at least
three children, a disabled dependent or being unemployed without
benefits, Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said
today after a  Cabinet  meeting in  Madrid .  The government will also negotiate with banks, including
state-controlled lenders to “make available” foreclosed homes
they own to a facility that will let them at affordable rents to
people who have lost their homes, Economy Minister Luis de
Guindos said. He gave no more detail on the so-called social-
housing fund.  Spain’s government is trying to respond to outrage over
foreclosures while not endangering a financial system still
reeling from a five-year property crash at a time when taxpayers
are already shouldering the costs of a bank bailout. Tens of
thousands of people marched in Spain late yesterday to back the
second general strike this year as support for the government
slumps amid spending cuts, tax increases and record
unemployment.  Losing Homes  “Our aim is that no one loses their home,” de Guindos,
who negotiated the nation’s 100 billion-euro European bank
bailout, told reporters. The measures affect a “very specific”
part of the market, don’t change the nation’s mortgage law, and
won’t increase the default ratio on residential mortgages, which
at 3.1 percent “is low and will remain low.”  The decree goes into effect immediately, Saenz de
Santamaria said. The government will also send a bill to
Parliament for debate on broader changes to rules on mortgages,
including preventing abuses in contracts, she said.  The People’s Party administration had tried to reach an
agreement on the measures with the opposition  Socialist  party.
After three nights of talks, negotiations broke down late
yesterday as demonstrations raged in Madrid in support of the
strike that the Socialists had backed. Prime Minister  Mariano
Rajoy  pledged to take urgent steps to prevent repossessions last
week after a woman facing eviction committed suicide.  Spain’s  banking association  pre-empted the government on
Nov. 12 by announcing a two-year freeze on repossessions in
cases of extreme need for “humanitarian reasons.” Lenders
already signed up in March to a voluntary code designed to
reduce evictions.  Some 400,000 homes have been foreclosed on in Spain since
the collapse of the real-estate boom. The Bank of Spain, whose
data show the mortgage default rate at about a third of the  10.5
percent level for lending as a whole , expects bad loans to keep
rising after unemployment reached a record 26 percent in
September. Banks in Spain have more than 600 billion euros of
 mortgage loans  outstanding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  