-- Statoil’s Tailored Oil Rigs to Help Curb Rising Fees, Lobby Says
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-11-15T14:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/statoil-s-tailored-oil-rigs-to-help-curb-rising-fees-lobby-says.html
Statoil ASA (STL) ’s plans to use oil rigs
tailor-made for its operations in  Norway  will help curb rising
hire costs, according to an industry group.  “Statoil has taken the initiative to build its own rigs,
and that will improve availability,” Gro Braekken, director-
general of Norwegian Oil & Gas, said today in an interview.
“This is an adjustment of supply and demand. When it gets too
expensive, the companies will intervene.”  Rig charges have risen as oil producers step up exploration
offshore. Recent rig orders by Statoil may help to stem climbing
costs as the units add to available capacity, while ownership
allows the company and its partners to sidestep hire fees. The
design of the new rigs, tailored to boost oil recovery at mature
fields, also frees up others for exploration, Braekken said.  Hire rates have gained more than 80 percent in the past
five years and will climb by a third by 2017, according to
Norwegian Oil & Gas, which represents explorers and producers.
Statoil’s orders will help to bring the number of rigs operating
in Norway to 40 from 30 in the period, the lobby group said.  Statoil, which accounts for about 80 percent of Norway’s
oil and gas production, has already awarded contracts for four
semi-submersible rigs to  Songa Offshore SE (SONG)  and may order more,
Head of Rig Strategy and Procurement Torgeir Loeland said in
September.  The company, 67 percent owned by the state, also plans to
award contracts for three jack-up rigs next year, two of which
may be used at the Oseberg and Gullfaks fields. It has ordered
three light well-intervention ships and a rig specially tailored
for increased oil recovery.  U.K. Transfers  Rig rates in Norway exceed U.K. fees by about 90 percent, a
government-appointed commission concluded in August. Braekken, a
member of the commission, said terms for transferring rigs from
the U.K. continental shelf to Norway should be simplified.  “It would really help if the upgrades were predictable and
didn’t take one to two years,” she said. “It would both reduce
costs and increase availability.”  Efforts to boost recruitment would also help ease
competition over wages between the companies, she said.  Total costs in the Norwegian oil industry will probably
rise 27 percent in the next five years, Bjoern Harald Martinsen,
economics manager at Norwegian Oil & Gas, said today in a
presentation. Labor expenses may advance at roughly the same
pace, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  