-- STMicroelectronics Said to Cool on Splitup Amid Discord
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-11-16T18:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/stmicroelectronics-said-to-cool-on-splitup-amid-discord.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM) ,  Europe ’s
largest semiconductor maker, will probably decide against
splitting itself into two units after disagreements between
French and Italian executives over the breakup proposal,
according to people familiar with the situation.  The split under consideration between analog and digital
businesses hasn’t won the full support of STMicroelectronics’
board, and will probably be shelved in favor of smaller asset
sales, said the people, asking not to be identified discussing
private deliberations. French executives including Chairman
Didier Lombard and Chief Operating Officer Didier Lamouche had
failed to convince the chipmaker’s Italian chief executive
officer,  Carlo Bozotti , to support the plan, they said.  Strategy chief Philippe Lambinet, who left the Geneva-based
company in September, was a key supporter of a split, the people
said. Lacking a unified management position, the company would
struggle to convince the French and Italian governments, which
together control 27.5 percent of its shares, to back such a
dramatic overhaul, one of the people said.  STMicroelectronics reiterated in a statement yesterday that
it has no plans to divide the company.  “Such a project has never been presented to the ST
supervisory board,” STMicroelectronics said. “There is full
alignment between the management of the company and the
supervisory board of directors.”  Shares Fall  STMicroelectronics fell 2.3 percent today in Paris to 4.23
euros. On Oct. 12, the French shares rose as much as 19 percent,
the biggest intraday gain since it started trading in 1994,
after Bloomberg News reported the breakup evaluation.  The semiconductor manufacturer has been dragged down by its
digital business, which manufactures chips for handsets and set-
top boxes, as key customers like  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and BlackBerry maker
 Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  see their own sales decline.  More broadly, European semiconductor makers have struggled
to cope with the industry’s sharp price and demand swings. They
are losing market share to Asian and U.S. competitors who have
switched to so-called fabless models, dispensing with factories
in favor of outsourcing to foundries such as  Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330)  That allows semiconductor makers
to adjust their designs and production more quickly without the
overhead of running their own plants.  Industry Shrinks  The global semiconductor industry will shrink 2 percent in
2012, researcher Exane said in September, after previously
predicting an increase of 1 percent.  Rather than splitting the company, STMicroelectronics may
seek gradual, closer integration with South Korea’s  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) , which already manufactures some advanced chips
on its behalf, one of the people said.  Nam Ki Yung, a Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung, declined
to comment.  The South Korean firm has spent more than $1.4 billion on
deals this year to bolster access to technology and materials
for phones and tablets, including a $310 million July deal for
the wireless unit of British semiconductor manufacturer  CSR Plc. (CSR) 
Samsung is locked in a global legal battle with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  over
intellectual property, with the two companies accusing each
other of misusing patents in popular mobile devices like the
iPhone and Nexus handsets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  