-- European Stocks Drop; Yen Weakens to Six-Month Low
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-15T08:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/stocks-in-japan-gain-on-election-optimism-as-aussie-oil-decline.html
The yen slumped to a six-month low
on expectations elections next month will hand power to the
opposition which favors unlimited easing. European stocks fell
on concern the U.S. fiscal cliff will curb growth, while German
government bonds advanced.  The Japanese currency weakened at least 0.5 percent against
all its 16 major peers as of 8:07 a.m. in  London . The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index dropped 0.6 percent while futures for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent.  Japan ’s Topix
Index gained 2.1 percent, snapping five days of losses, as the
MSCI Asia Pacific ex-Japan Index lost 1.2 percent. German 10-
year  bund yields  approached an almost 11-week low.  Shinzo Abe, who’ll probably become Japan’s premier after
the election, called on the central bank to adopt unlimited
easing, saying it shouldn’t wait to add stimulus. The German and
French economies grew 0.2 percent in the third quarter from the
previous period, beating estimates, data showed. President
 Barack Obama  meets Democratic and Republican congressional
leaders tomorrow for talks to avoid $607 billion in tax
increases and spending cuts that may spur a recession.  “A government led by the Liberal Democratic Party is
expected to win,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about
$600 million at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in  Tokyo .
“Investors believe that will add pressure on the Bank of Japan
to ease policy, and the government will adopt strong policies to
get the economy out of deflation.”  The yen fell 0.8 percent to 80.86 against the dollar and
0.8 percent versus the euro. The drop extended its two-day
decline against the greenback to as much as 2 percent, the most
in a year. Polls showed the Dec. 16 election will favor Abe, who
said today the central bank’s benchmark rate should be lowered
to zero or below and pledged to raise public spending.  Billiton, Tencent  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 1.9 percent even as
Sony Corp. fell as much as 11 percent to the lowest in more than
32 years in Tokyo after offering its first convertible bonds in
almost a decade. South Korea’s Kospi Index dropped 1.2 percent,
its lowest close since Aug. 3. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index lost
1.5 percent and  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.9 percent.  BHP Billiton (BHP)  Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, fell
1.8 percent in Sydney. Tencent Holdings Ltd.,  China ’s biggest
Internet company, dropped 5 percent in Hong Kong after earnings
missed estimates.  The 17-nation euro strengthened to 103.02 yen and was
little changed at $1.2744. Advance estimates for the euro region
due today will probably show gross domestic product fell 0.1
percent in the three months through September from the previous
period, according to the median economist forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  ’Clear Message’  Obama said in a press conference yesterday that voters sent
a “very clear message” on Nov. 6 that they want both parties
to stop bickering and take the necessary action to cut the
budget deficit. His comments spurred concern that lawmakers
weren’t making progress on negotiations.  “You have this negative feedback loop continuing that
really does affect both consumer consumption, personal
confidence, as well as business investment,” Wayne Bowers,
chief executive officer for Asia-Pacific and  Europe  at Northern
Trust Global Investments, which has about $750 billion in assets
under management, said in a Bloomberg TV interview. “Investors
need more clarity.”  U.S.  10-year notes  yielded 1.59 percent, Bloomberg Bond
Trader data show, 21 basis points from the record low of 1.38
percent set July 25, before a U.S. report economists said will
show the cost of living increased in October at the slowest pace
in three months.  China’s Leadership  A number of Federal Reserve officials said the central bank
may need to expand its monthly purchases of bonds next year
after the expiration of Operation Twist, according to minutes of
their last meeting. Under Operation Twist, scheduled to end in
December, the Fed is swapping short-term Treasuries on its
balance sheet for longer-term debt.  Oil was little changed at $86.28 a barrel in New York,
trading near the highest level in more than a week after an
Israeli attack on the Gaza Strip raised concern Middle East
unrest will disrupt supplies. Air strikes killed Ahmed al-
Jabari, the leader of Hamas’s military wing, according to the
Israel Defense Forces.  Xi Jinping replaced Hu Jintao as head of the Chinese
Communist Party and the nation’s military, ushering in the fifth
generation of leaders who are set to run the world’s second-
biggest economy over the next decade. He’s joined on the elite
Politburo Standing Committee by Li Keqiang, whose new party rank
indicates he will replace Premier Wen Jiabao at a March meeting.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  