-- Swiss Bankers Battle Socialists to Keep Tax Breaks
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 2012-11-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/swiss-bankers-battle-socialists-to-keep-tax-breaks-for-jet-set.html
Geneva’s bankers are concerned that
Socialist Party proposals to scrap a 150-year-old tax break for
wealthy foreigners will scare off their best clients.  Their anxiety increased last month with the submission of a
national petition to abolish the so-called forfait, an
expenditure-based levy foreigners negotiate with Swiss cantons
to avoid paying income tax. Appenzell Ausserrhoden will become
the third canton to reject the system on Jan. 1 and Basel will
follow 12 months later.  “It’s an outrage that ordinary people should pay more tax
than rich movie stars, singers and sporting celebrities,” said
Romain de Sainte Marie, president of the Geneva Socialist Party.
“It’s a form of  tax evasion .”  The Swiss backlash against the forfait comes as a slowing
economy highlights the lower tax rates paid by super-rich
foreigners such as Ikea billionaire founder  Ingvar Kamprad .
While the Socialist Party says the tax loophole has turned
Geneva into a city of luxury boutiques and unaffordable housing,
bankers counter that rich expatriates are key clients who create
jobs and stimulate growth.  “We need to defend it for our own sakes as this is a very
interesting customer base,” said Gregoire Bordier, president of
the Geneva Private Bankers Association. “This system already
brings significant revenue to the authorities.”  The tax regime in Geneva raised 116.4 million francs ($123
million) for the canton in 2010, according to a study by Zurich-
based Economiesuisse. The figure for  Switzerland  was 464.2
million francs, or 0.9 percent of total tax revenue. The economy
will grow 0.9 percent this year after expanding by 1.9 percent
in 2011, according to a survey of 21 analysts by  Bloomberg News .  System Expands  The number of foreigners tapping the forfait climbed 31
percent to 5,445 between 2006 and 2010, according to figures
from a body representing the finance directors of the country’s
26 cantons. The tax plan was introduced in 1862 by the canton of
Vaud to get wealthy British residents to pay for local services.  Affluent forfaits, who paid an average 122,681 francs of
tax in 2010, also support construction and other industries,
said Bordier, who is also a managing partner at private bank,
Bordier & Cie.  House prices  in Geneva almost tripled over the past decade
with an average transaction price of 2.13 million francs in the
third quarter, according to Wuest & Partner, a real estate
consulting firm with offices in Geneva and Zurich.  “In the beginning, you could say they increased property
prices,” said Bordier. “Now, as prices decline, you could say
they’re supporting the market.”  Tax Parasite  Those arguments don’t persuade Geneva’s Socialist Party,
which submitted the 10,000 signatures in January to prompt a
vote on the system. That referendum may come in 2014, according
to Arnaud Moreillon, secretary-general of the party in Geneva.  “While the system is a nice little earner for private
bankers and luxury property agents, Geneva is regarded as a
parasite by tax authorities around the rest of the world,” de
Sainte Marie said. “Proportionately, ordinary people are paying
more tax than rich forfait holders.”  Under the forfait, expenditure is calculated at not less
than five times the annual rental value of the individual’s home
in Switzerland. The Swiss Parliament voted in September to
increase that to seven times annual rent by 2017 with a minimum
taxable income of 400,000 francs.  Ordinary federal and cantonal tax rates are applied to that
rental value and there is no obligation on forfait holders to
declare worldwide income or assets. Unlike other Swiss
residents, they don’t pay tax on income from securities
holdings.  Ikea Billionaire  That can lower the  tax rate  for billionaires such as Ikea’s
Kamprad to less than 1 percent, according to the Socialist
Party. Top income tax rates in Geneva and Vaud, where Kamprad
lives, are more than 45 percent.  Kamprad is part of the forfait system, said Per Heggenes, a
spokesman for the Ikea foundation, without providing further
details. Kamprad’s fortune stands at $40.6 billion, making him
the world’s fifth-richest person, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  Scrapping the forfait system in Geneva and Vaud may result
in an exodus of foreign millionaires because the cantons have
among the highest income tax rates in Switzerland, according to
Peter Krummenacher, a lawyer at  Henley & Partners  in Zurich, who
gives immigration and tax advice.  “Geneva and Vaud have a lot more to lose than Schwyz or
Bern,” he said.  Formula One  Abolishing the current tax system would prompt some to
“spend their money elsewhere,” Der Sonntag quoted Formula One
Champion  Michael Schumacher  as saying on Oct. 21. Schumacher,
who lives beside Lake Geneva in Vaud, said there are “a lot of
other places I could picture myself living,” the newspaper
reported.  Sabine Kehm, a Gland, Switzerland-based spokeswoman for
Schumacher, declined to comment on his tax status, saying it’s a
private matter.  After Zurich became the first canton to abolish the forfait
in 2009, with 52.9 percent voting against the system, 97 of the
201 beneficiaries of the tax left the canton. About two-thirds
of them relocated to other parts of Switzerland.  The biggest surprise was that more than half the foreign
millionaires, typically among the most mobile and tax-sensitive
people, decided to stay in Zurich, said Marius Brulhart,
professor of economics at Lausanne University.  “It seems they don’t all run away when you remove their
special treatment,” Brulhart said. “The loss in tax receipts
from people who moved away was offset by extra tax from those
who stayed.”  French Connection  While  tax revenue  initially increased from the majority who
remained in the canton, that changed when one unidentified
super-rich taxpayer departed, according to Vincent Simon, an
economist at  Economiesuisse . Getting rid of the forfait will
push retired French millionaires in Geneva and Vaud to seek
alternatives, he said.  With 1,394 residents using the system,  Vaud  has the largest
number of forfaits, according to cantonal figures for April.
Geneva had about 750 and Valais, another French-speaking canton,
had 1,162, according to 2010 numbers from the Conference of
Cantonal Finance Directors.  The Socialist Party, in a coalition with the Alternative
Left and two labor unions, presented a  petition  on Oct. 19 with
more than 103,000 signatures to the Swiss Parliament, calling
for the “abolition of scandalous tax privileges for
foreigners.” The initiative may lead to a parliamentary debate
by 2015 and a national referendum within 10 months of that.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net ;
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at   mvera1@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  