-- U.K. Retail Sales Drop More Than Forecast on Food, Clothing
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-11-15T10:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/u-k-retail-sales-drop-more-than-forecast-on-food-clothing-1-.html
U.K. retail sales  fell more than
economists forecast in October, led by a decline in demand for
food and clothing.  Sales including fuel dropped 0.8 percent from September,
when they gained a revised 0.5 percent, the Office for National
Statistics said today in London. The median forecast of 23
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.1 percent
decline. Food, which accounts for about 41 percent of retail
sales, declined 0.6 percent.  Consumers are under pressure as inflation accelerates while
the economic recovery struggles to gain momentum. Bank of
England Governor Mervyn King said yesterday that price gains are
set to remain above the central bank’s 2 percent target into
next year, though policy makers haven’t ruled out a fourth round
of  quantitative easing  to encourage economic growth.  “Today’s numbers aren’t terribly positive as far as the
fourth-quarter gross domestic product goes,” said David Tinsley, an economist at BNP Paribas SA in  London . “There is a
reasonable chance that the fourth-quarter release will show the
economy slipping backwards. That will raise the political heat
for the government amidst talk of the economy triple dipping.”  The pound weakened against the euro after the data were
published and was trading at 80.55 pence as of 10:02 a.m. in
London. Against the dollar, sterling was at $1.5849, up 0.1
percent on the day.  Clothes Sales  Clothing sales, which account for about 12 percent of total
retailing, plunged 2.3 percent in October from the previous
month. Sales of clothes had surged 1.9 percent in September due
to a boost from school uniforms. From a year earlier, total
retail sales were up 0.6 percent in October.  In the three months through October, retail sales rose 0.2
percent compared with the previous three months, compared with a
0.9 percent gain in the third quarter. From a year earlier,
sales increased 1.8 percent.  Excluding auto fuel , retail sales fell 0.7 percent last
month from September. They rose 1.1 percent on the year.  Today’s report also showed prices are creeping up. The
annual retail sales deflator, a measure of changes in shop
prices, rose to 0.9 percent in October from 0.7 percent in
September. The deflator on food prices jumped to 2.7 percent
from 2 percent.  While Britain exited a  double-dip recession  in the third
quarter, King said yesterday that the economy may shrink again
in the current quarter. Data yesterday showed unemployment
claims unexpectedly jumped by 10,100 last month.  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s third-largest supermarket
company, reported a 5.4 percent gain in first-half earnings
yesterday, while predicting that the grocery market will remain
“challenging.”  Inflation  Inflation accelerated to 2.7 percent last month driven
higher by an increase in university tuition fees. Wages are
struggling to keep pace. Average earnings grew an annual 1.8
percent in the three months through September, compared with 1.7
percent in the previous period.  Bank of England policy makers voted last week to end their
third round of quantitative easing at 375 billion pounds ($594
billion) as officials assessed the strength of the recovery
alongside risks to inflation. King said the U.K. faces “the
rather unappealing combination of a subdued recovery with
inflation remaining above target for a while,” and the bank
“has not lost faith in asset purchases as a policy instrument,
nor has it concluded that there will be no more purchases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  