-- U.K. Stocks Slip as Retail Sales Drop; Kingfisher Falls
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-11-15T17:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/u-k-stocks-drop-amid-u-s-budget-uncertainty-wood-group.html
U.K. stocks  declined for a second
day, with the  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index falling to a two-month low, as
retail sales dropped more than forecast and concern grew that
the U.S. budget deadlock will harm the global economy.  Kingfisher Plc (KGF)  led retailers lower, sliding 2.7 percent.
 Man Group (EMG)  Plc fell 5.7 percent after MSCI Inc. removed the
company from its U.K. equities gauge. John  Wood Group (WG/)  Plc lost
5.9 percent after it missed out on inclusion in the measure.
 Resolution Ltd. (RSL)  tumbled the most in more than two months as
sales at its international division dropped.  The FTSE 100 retreated 44.26 points, or 0.8 percent, to
5,677.75 at the close of trading in London, its lowest level
since Sept. 5. The benchmark has  fallen 3.5 percent  since
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election on Nov. 6 amid concern that
impending tax increases and spending cuts will push the  U.S.
economy  into recession. The FTSE All-Share Index slid 0.7
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index decreased 1.2 percent.  “Retail sales were weaker than expected and, to our minds,
that leads the way to further downgrades to the economic-growth
outlook for the U.K.,” Gerard Lane, a strategist at Shore
Capital Group Ltd., an investment bank and stockbroker in
Liverpool, England, said by phone. “With a worsening economic
backdrop and earnings at risk of falling quite sharply in the
new year, even if we don’t get a fiscal-cliff recession, I think
the markets remain on a bear tack.”  Budget Debate  In the U.S., Obama said voters want to cut the  budget
deficit  through a combination of tax increases for the wealthy
and reductions in spending.  The president opened a White House news conference
yesterday reiterating his call for Congress to immediately pass
an extension of the Bush-era tax cuts for the first $200,000 of
annual income for individuals and $250,000 for married couples.
He said the rates on earnings above those levels should be
allowed to rise when they expire at the end of the year.  U.K. retail sales  fell more than economists forecast in
October. Sales including fuel dropped 0.8 percent from
September, when they gained a revised 0.5 percent, the  Office
for National Statistics  said today in London. The median
forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
0.1 percent decline.  The euro-area economy slipped into a recession for the
second time in four years as governments imposed tougher budget
cuts amid the worsening debt crisis.  Gross domestic product 
slipped 0.1 percent in the third quarter after a 0.2 percent
decline in the previous three months, the European Union’s
statistics office said.  U.S. Jobless  More Americans than forecast submitted  claims for
unemployment insurance  last week. Applications for jobless
benefits surged by 78,000 to 439,000 in the week ended Nov. 10,
the most since April 2011, the Labor Department said.  Retailers retreated, with Kingfisher, the U.K. owner of the
B&Q home-improvement chain, sliding 2.7 percent to 275.4 pence.
 Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  lost 2.1 percent to 370.6 pence and  J
Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s third-largest supermarket company,
dropped 1.7 percent to 333 pence.  Man Group dropped 5.7 percent to 73.75 pence, a two-month
low. The world’s biggest publicly traded hedge-fund manager was
removed from the MSCI U.K. Index, meaning funds that track the
measure will have to sell the stock.  Wood Group fell 5.9 percent to 790.5 pence. The oil
services provider active in Africa and the Middle East was seen
as a likely addition to the gauge and “may suffer from the
quick unwinding of speculative positions,” according to a note
from Exane BNP Paribas.  Resolution Slides  Resolution sank 4 percent to 230 pence, the largest decline
since Sept. 5. The insurance buyout firm founded by  Clive Cowdery  said international sales dropped 18 percent to 272
million pounds ($431 million) in the first nine months of the
year. Resolution will spend 35 million pounds to integrate
computer systems after buying Axa SA’s U.K. life insurance unit.  Pennon Group Plc (PNN)  tumbled 6.2 percent to 628.5 pence, its
biggest drop in four years. The U.K. water supply and waste
management business said in a trading statement that recyclate
price remain under pressure and will affect the performance of
its Viridor unit.  Invensys Plc (ISYS) , which makes software that runs the London
Underground trains, rose 2.6 percent to 221.7 pence. The company
predicted an improved performance for the full year after
reporting a 15 percent increase in first-half profit to 62
million pounds.  Amlin Plc (AML)  added 1.8 percent to 373.5 pence. The second-
biggest Lloyd’s of London insurer by market value said revenue
rose 11 percent and it’s “well placed” to absorb claims from
 Hurricane Sandy .  Keller Jumps  Keller Group Plc (KLR)  surged 9.9 percent to 623 pence, its
biggest gain since Jan. 19. The builder of the foundation for
the main London 2012 Olympic Games stadium forecast earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for 2012
of 85.8 million pounds and said full-year revenue would be in
line with expectations at 1.3 billion pounds.  WS Atkins Plc (ATK)  soared 11 percent to 710 pence, the biggest
gain in four years. The U.K.’s largest engineering-design
company reported first-half revenue of 815.7 million pounds and
reiterated its full-year outlook.  CPP Group Plc (CPP) , the U.K. company that provides protection
against credit-card and identity theft, advanced 4.1 percent to
25.25 pence, trimming this year’s drop to 77 percent.  CPP said it will be able to pay a settlement of as much as
33.4 million pounds in installments after a Financial Services
Authority inquiry into sales of its two main products. The FSA
said the York, England-based company settled at an early stage
and qualified for a 30 percent discount on the fine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  