-- U.S. November Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-11-15T13:43:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/u-s-november-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index.  The November 2012 Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates
that conditions for  New York  manufacturers declined at a modest
pace. The general business conditions index was negative for a
fourth consecutive month, but was little changed at -5.2. The
new orders index rose above zero for the first time since June,
although it was only slightly positive at 3.1. The shipments
index shot up twenty-one points to 14.6, its highest level since
May. The prices paid index fell three points to 14.6, indicating
a modest increase in input prices, and the prices received index
held steady at 5.6. Labor market conditions were noticeably
weaker. The index for number of employees fell fourteen points
to -14.6, a sharp drop to its lowest level since 2009, and the
average workweek index drifted down to -7.9. Indexes for the
six-month outlook were mixed, with the future general business
conditions index declining seven points to 12.9, while the
future new orders and shipments indexes rose.  In a series of supplementary questions, firms were asked about
the extent to which their businesses were affected by the
“superstorm” Sandy. Among firms based in upstate New York, only
21 percent reported any loss of activity due to the storm--and
in most cases, for no more than one day. However, 100 percent of
firms in the New York City area reported some reduction in
activity. The most widely cited factors contributing to a
reduction in business activity were loss of power and loss of
communications--reported as major factors by more than 70
percent of downstate businesses.  Business Conditions Decline Modestly  The general business conditions index was little changed in
November and, at -5.2, suggested that activity for New York
manufacturers continued to decline at a modest pace. Nineteen
percent of respondents reported that conditions had improved
over the past month, while 24 percent reported that conditions
had worsened. In its first positive reading since June, the new
orders index climbed twelve points to 3.1, pointing to a small
increase in orders. The shipments index rose sharply to 14.6, a
twenty-one point increase signaling that shipments were higher.
The unfilled orders index remained negative, but rose seven
points to -11.2. The delivery time index rose three points to -
1.1, indicating that delivery times were little changed. The
inventories index fell ten points to -12.4, a sign that
inventory levels were somewhat lower.  Labor Market Conditions Weaken  The prices paid index, falling three points to 14.6, suggested a
modest but somewhat slower pace of growth in input prices. The
prices received index was little changed at 5.6, pointing to
just a slight increase in selling prices. Labor market
conditions weakened noticeably. The index for number of
employees fell a steep fourteen points to -14.6, its lowest
level since mid-2009. The average workweek index fell four
points to -7.9, indicating that average workweeks were shorter.  Optimism about Future Business Conditions Wanes  Indexes for the six-month outlook were mixed. The future general
business conditions index fell for a second consecutive month,
and at 12.9, was at its lowest level since 2009. The future new
orders index, however, rose six points to 21.4, and the future
shipments index climbed nineteen points to 30.3. The future
prices paid index dropped fi ve points to 39.3, and the future
prices received index fell nine points to 15.7. Indexes for
future employment suggested that fi rms expect employment levels
and hours worked to be unchanged in the months ahead. The index
for expected number of employees was -1.1, and the future
average workweek index was 0.0. The capital expenditures index
rose three points to 9.0, and the technology spending index
inched down to 5.6.  Supplemental Report:
Downstate Manufacturers Report Severe Disruptions from Sandy
Supplementary questions in the November 2012 Empire State
Manufacturing Survey focused on the extent to which firms were
affected by the “superstorm” Sandy. Among firms based in upstate
New York, only 21 percent reported any loss of activity due to
the storm-- and in most cases, for no more than one day.
However, 100 percent of firms in the New York City area-- which
also includes  Long Island  and the lower Hudson Valley (up to
Putnam and Orange counties)-- reported some reduction in
activity. Moreover, when asked how long (if at all) their
business was completely shut down or severely crippled, more
than 90 percent of these downstate respondents indicated at
least one day, and more than 40 percent reported this status as
lasting for five days or more. Businesses in Long Island,
including Brooklyn and Queens, reported the most widespread and
severe effects from the storm.  In a separate query, respondents were asked to identify the
major factors that contributed to a reduction in business
activity. The most widely cited problems were loss of power and
loss of communications--reported as major factors by more than
70 percent of downstate businesses. Among upstate respondents,
the channels through which the storm hurt business--mostly to a
minor extent--were the negative effects on the firms’ customers
and disruptions to their supply chains.  SOURCE: Federal  Reserve Bank  of New York 