-- U.S. ‘Deeply Concerned’ About South Sudan Detention of American
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-11-15T13:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/u-s-deeply-concerned-about-south-sudan-detention-of-american.html
The U.S. said it’s “deeply
concerned” about  South Sudan ’s security forces arbitrarily
detaining people including an American set to go on trial on
Thanksgiving Day.  The National Security Service arrested Elton Mark McCabe on
Oct. 14 and a trial is scheduled for Nov. 22, the U.S. embassy
said. His wife, Anne McCabe, said NSS agents abducted him and
Iraqi colleague, Mohamed Oglah, and demanded a ransom after
falsely accusing him of kidnapping.  “They said if he came up with $100,000 he could be on a
plane the same day,” she said by phone yesterday from Slidell,
 Louisiana . “He was beaten, but he wouldn’t go into detail about
what they did to him.”  At least a third of the prison population in South  Sudan ,
which became Africa’s newest state when it seceded from Sudan in
July, 2011, hasn’t been convicted of a crime or even charged,
New York-based Human Rights Watch said in  a report .  The U.S. embassy said it had raised McCabe’s case at the
highest levels of South Sudan’s government, according to
statement e-mailed yesterday.  “The U.S. Embassy remains deeply concerned with reports of
arbitrary arrests and detentions, and strongly encourages the
South Sudanese government to ensure that Mr. McCabe’s due
process rights are upheld,” the embassy said.  Government spokesman Barnaba Marial Benjamin had his phones
turned off when called for comment. Police spokesman James
Monday said McCabe is being held by the NSS and not the police,
although by law he should have been transferred to police
custody.  “The details are not known by police,” Monday said by
phone from the capital, Juba, today.“The truth will be before
the court.”  Oglah invited McCabe to an investment conference in Juba
this year and the two secured contracts to build Internet
infrastructure and two medical clinic, Anne McCabe said. Oglah
and her husband had worked together in  Iraq , she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  