-- U.S. November Philadelphia Business Outlook Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-11-15T15:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/u-s-november-philadelphia-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Philadelphia area manufacturing activity from the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia .  Firms responding to the November Business Outlook Survey
reported declines in business activity this month following the
disruptive effects of Hurricane Sandy on the region. The
survey’s indicators for general activity, which had shown
improvement in October, fell back into negative territory this
month. Firms reported slight declines in shipments, employment,
and hours worked. Indicators for the firms’ expectations over
the next six months were near their levels in the previous
month, but expectations for future employment and capital
spending have weakened in the last two months.  Indicators Suggest Diminished Activity  The survey’s broadest measure of manufacturing conditions,
the diffusion index of current activity, decreased 16 points, to
a reading of -10.7.  The fallback of the general activity index
followed a single positive reading in October that was preceded
by five negative monthly readings. Nearly 32 percent of firms
reported declines in activity this month, while 21 percent
reported increases. The demand for manufactured goods, as
measured by the current new orders index, declined 4 points from
last month and remains in negative territory. Shipments also
fell this month: The current shipments index fell 7 points, to -
6.7.  Declines in inventories were also more widespread this
month; 31 percent of firms reported declines compared with 21
percent in October.  Labor market conditions at the reporting firms remained
weak this month. The current employment index, at -6.8, was
slightly improved from its negative reading in October (-10.7)
but has remained negative for five consecutive months. The
percentage of firms reporting decreases in employment (20
percent) exceeded the percentage reporting increases (13
percent). Firms also indicated fewer hours worked: The average
workweek index was virtually unchanged but posted its eighth
consecutive negative reading.  Price Indexes Drift Higher  The indexes for prices paid for purchased inputs and for
prices received for respondentsï¿½ own manufactured goods moved
higher this month. The prices paid index increased from 19.0 to
27.9, but the increase was attributable to fewer firms reporting
lower prices rather than more firms reporting price increases.
With respect to their own manufactured goods, the percentage
reporting an increase in product prices (16 percent) was greater
than the percent reporting a decrease (10 percent). The prices
received index increased marginally, from 5.4 to 6.3.  Six-Month Indicators Are Mixed  Most of the survey’s future indicators suggest modest
optimism among the reporting manufacturers. The future general
activity index fell modestly from 21.6 to 20.0. The percentage
of firms expecting increases in activity over the next six
months (43 percent) exceeded the percentage expecting decreases
(23 percent) by a significant margin. The indexes for future new
orders and shipments improved modestly, rising 3 and 7 points,
respectively.  The future employment index also fell from 8.0 to
4.2, its second consecutive month of decline. Firms’
expectations for future capital spending have also shown
weakness in the last two months; the index registered its second
consecutive negative reading.  In supplemental questions, firms were asked about
disruption in business following  Hurricane Sandy , which passed
through the region in the final days of October. The average
number of days on which firms experienced reduced activity was
2.2. Nearly a third of the firms indicated that activity was
reduced for three days or more. Out of the number of days on
which activity was reduced, the average length of time that
businesses were either shut down or severely crippled was 1.3
days. (See Special Questions)  Summary  The November Business Outlook Survey suggests that activity
in the region’s manufacturing sector fell back this month. Firms
reported declines in overall activity, new orders, shipments,
and employment. But the influence of the recent storm in terms
of lost production in the short run and reduced activity for
longer periods was evident in firms’ responses to questions
about the storm’s impact on business activity. The survey’s
future activity indexes suggest that firms expect growth over
the next six months; however, expectations for future employment
and  capital spending  continue to show moderation.  Special Questions (November 2012)  For how many business days, if any, did your establishment
experience a reduction in business activity as a result of the
storm?  Out of those days that activity was reduced, how many days
was your business shut down or severely crippled?  Days      % Reporting Reduced     % Reporting Shut Down Activity
or Severely Crippled  0 Days             13.4%                                25.4%
1 Day              17.9%                                35.8%
2 Days             37.3%                                31.3%
3 Days             23.9%                                 6.0%
> 3 Days            7.5%                                 1.5%  Total             100.0%                               100.0%  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 