-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Nov. 9 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-11-15T16:02:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-nov-9-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 14.6 million barrels per
day during the week ending November 9, 55 thousand barrels per
day below the previous week’s average. Refineries operated at
86.0 percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production increased last week, averaging 9.1 million barrels
per day. Distillate fuel production increased slightly last
week, averaging about 4.6 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged about 7.9 million barrels per
day last week, down by 141 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have
averaged about 8.2 million barrels per day, 721 thousand barrels
per day below the same four-week period last year. Total motor
gasoline imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline
blending components) last week averaged 598 thousand barrels per
day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 200 thousand barrels per
day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 1.1 million barrels
from the previous week. At 375.9 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are well above the upper limit of the average range
for this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories
decreased by 0.4 million barrels last week and are in the middle
of the average range. Both finished gasoline inventories, and
blending components inventories decreased last week. Distillate
fuel inventories decreased by 2.5 million barrels last week and
are well below the lower limit of the average range for this
time of year. Propane/propylene inventories decreased by 0.4
million barrels last week, but remained well above the upper
limit of the average range. Total commercial petroleum
inventories decreased by 4.7 million barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged 18.8 million barrels per day, down by 2.2 percent from
the same period last year. Over the last four weeks, motor
gasoline product supplied has averaged over 8.6 million barrels
per day, up by 0.7 percent from the same period last year.
Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged 3.7 million
barrels per day over the last four weeks, down by 14.0 percent
from the same period last year. Jet fuel product supplied is 1.9
percent lower over the last four weeks compared to the same
four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  