-- U.S. Rate Swap Spreads May Widen as Demand for Treasuries Rises
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-11-15T00:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/u-s-rate-swap-spreads-may-widen-as-demand-for-treasuries-rises.html
Regulatory changes and an end to
temporary deposit insurance on some bank accounts are likely to
boost demand for short-term Treasuries and widen the difference
between swap rates and Treasury yields from record lows,
according to Bank of America Corp.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, touched eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, on
Oct. 17, the lowest since at least 1988, or as far back as
Bloomberg tracks data. The gap is likely to widen to about 17
basis points, Bank of America predicted, from 11.5 basis points
yesterday. The 2012 high was 49 basis points on Jan. 3.  Two-year swap spreads may rebound on a possible drop in
financing costs when the Federal Reserve ends short-term debt
sales as part of Operation Twist next year. Demand for
government debt may rise as margin requirements on swaps
required by the Dodd-Frank Act are put in place and if the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. ends, as planned next month,
temporary unlimited insurance on non-interest bearing
transactions accounts.  “Demand for Treasuries, particularly in the front end of
the yield curve, is and will continue to increase while the
supply is probably going to decline,” said Ralph Axel, a fixed-
income strategist at Bank of America, in an interview. “These
factors should cause an outperformance of Treasuries relative to
swaps, widening spreads.”  Yield Range  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread narrowed to a
record low as the  London  interbank offered rate, the rate banks
say they pay for three-month dollar loans, plunged to a 12-month
low. The  two-year  Treasury note yield, at 0.25 percent, has
traded between 0.19 percent and 0.41 percent this year.  The  average rate  for borrowing and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.252 percent yesterday,
according to index data provided on a one-day lag by the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. The rate was at 0.127 percent
at the start of the year.  Supply of Treasuries may decline if even a partial trigger
of the $607 billion in tax increases and spending cuts, the so-
called fiscal cliff, occurs next year. Strategists at UBS AG
predicted the Treasury department will focus supply cuts to
Treasury bills and short-term coupons if a below-forecast
deficit cuts borrowing needs.  Budget Talks  “Fiscal-cliff risks are likely to push swap spreads wider
in the near term on the back of falling yields,” wrote a team
of analysts lead by  Charles Diebel , head of market strategy at
Lloyds Banking Group Plc in London in a note. “While a degree
of money-market stress might help the move, we do not expect
anything similar” to recent stress-induced widening, such as in
May of this year.  The two-year swap spread rose to as high as 41.8 basis
points on May 16 from 22.4 basis points on March 28. Spreads
widened during that period as Spain struggled to recapitalize
its banks and investors’ concern grew regarding  Greece ’s future
in the euro and the ability of the region’s leaders to contain
its sovereign debt crisis.  The swap spread is based in part on expectations for dollar
Libor and is used to gauge investor perceptions of credit risk.
Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types of
debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  Finance Costs  Repurchase agreement rates, which primary dealers call
repos and use to help finance debt holdings, have surged since
the Fed began swapping short-term debt for longer-term
Treasuries on its balance sheet last year in its Operation Twist
program. The program is slated to end Dec. 31.  “A number of participants indicated that additional asset
purchases would likely be appropriate next year after the
conclusion of the maturity-extension program,” according to the
record of the Federal Open Market Committee’s Oct. 23-24
gathering released yesterday in  Washington .  The Fed’s latest round of debt purchases, known as QE3, may
also be adding liquidity to the money markets, as it lifts banks
reserves, Joe Abate, strategist at Barclays Plc. wrote in a note
published Nov. 5. The Fed is buying $40 billion of mortgage-
backed securities a month to put downward pressure on borrowing
costs.  If the Fed were to add Treasury purchases, the 10-year
interest rate swap spread could widen 10 to 15 basis points,
according to Citigroup Inc. The spread was at 3.6 basis points
yesterday.  Cash Shift  There is about $1.4 trillion in cash sitting in non-
interest bearing transactions accounts with balances above
$250,000 that is set to lose temporary unlimited insurance
coverage put in place following the financial crisis in 2008,
FDIC data shows. If even 10 percent of that cash makes its way
into money market securities, it could push rates lower,
according to strategists at Morgan Stanley.  Under the 2010 Dodd-Frank, dealers and money managers that
trade swaps will need to find cash and securities to back the
trades sometime next year, boosting the demand for short-term
Treasuries, according to Axel. Under the Commodity futures
Trading Commission rules, clearinghouses are required to collect
initial margin, the minimum amount of cash or eligible
securities investors must deposit to cover the risk of default.  Dodd-Frank Act is requiring swaps be moved to  central
counterparties  to limit the kinds of risks that fueled panic
during the 2008 credit crisis. Firms dealing in  $648 trillion  of
outstanding swaps contracts will have a phase-in period
initially next year where trades won’t need to be processed by
central clearinghouses.  “The market currently expects the swaps-clearing portion
of Dodd-Frank to be implemented sometime in Q1 or Q2 2013,”
 New-York  based Citigroup strategists Neela Gollapudi and Andrew Hollenhorst wrote in a note published on Nov. 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  