-- Hub Power Mulls Court Action to Recover Pakistan Dues
-- B y   F a s e e h   M a n g i   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2012-11-15T03:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/hub-power-mulls-court-action-to-recover-pakistan-dues.html
Hub Power Co. (HUBC) , Pakistan’s second-
largest non-state power producer, may seek court intervention if
the government fails to make payments owed to the company’s
Narowal plant.  “When dues are not being paid on time, operating the plant
is quite tough,” Chief Executive Officer Zafar Iqbal Sobani
said in an interview in Karachi yesterday. Under the terms of a
guarantee invoked by Hub, the government is liable to pay 11.2
billion rupees ($117 million) this week of the 16 billion rupees
owed to the 220-megawatt plant in the Punjabi city, he said.  Private electricity producers in Pakistan are struggling to
operate their plants because of non-payment by state-run grid
companies for the power they purchase. The delays lead to so-
called circular debt in the nation’s energy industry that
amounts to as much as 400 billion rupees, according to
Foundation Securities Ltd. in Karachi. After prolonged
negotiations with the government over several months, some power
producers are seeking legal recourse as cash constraints curb
output.  In June, eight private power producers including Nishat
Chunian Power Ltd. and Orient Power Co. filed a petition in the
Supreme Court seeking recovery of 62 billion rupees. In August,
the court ordered the government to make part of the payment,
according to Abdullah Yousuf, chairman of the  Pakistan 
Independent Power Producers Advisory Council in Islamabad. The
next hearing is on Dec. 4.  ‘Getting Worse’  “The cash crunch for Hub Power appears to be getting worse
in coming days,” said Shahid Ali, research head at M.M.
Securities in Karachi. “Local players have replaced foreign
investors who left and the new management, in my opinion, will
find it difficult to pressure the government for the payment of
outstanding amounts.”  The government owes a total of 95 billion rupees to Hub
Power’s two plants in overdue payments and the power producer in
turn is late on 65 billion rupees of payments to Pakistan State
Oil, the biggest fuel retailer, said Sobani.  “We are stretched and trying our best to get the money,”
he said. “If we don’t get money properly, we may have to close
the plant because of non-availability of fuel. The option is to
go to the  Supreme Court  like the other companies did and get
results.”  The Karachi-based Dawood Group owns a 19 percent stake in
Hub Power after International Power Plc from the U.K. and Saudi-
based Xenel Industries Ltd. sold a combined holding of 29.5
percent in the financial year ended June 30.  Record Profit  Hub Power reported an increase of 54 percent in net income
to a record 8.58 billion rupees in the year ended June 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company has paid
dividends to shareholders twice a year for at least the past
decade.  “It’s very challenging to service the dividend,” said
Sobani, 55, who became CEO in 2011. “We don’t have any major
change in the dividend policy but all will depend on the  cash
flow .”  The company is expected to pay a  dividend  of 6.50 rupees a
share in the year ending June 2013, according to the median
estimate of seven analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Hub Power’s  shares  have gained 32 percent this year,
compared with a 44 percent increase in the benchmark KSE100
index. The shares fell 0.2 percent to 44.85 rupees at the close
of trade yesterday.  The company plans to start commercial operations on its
$233 million hydro plant in Pakistan-administered Kashmir by
April, Sobani said. Hub Power has a 75 percent stake in the
subsidiary company Laraib Energy Ltd. that is building the 84-
megawatt plant, Pakistan’s first private hydro producer.
“Revenue stream from this plant should begin in 2013-14,” he
said.  Pakistan is seeking to set up  power plants  to help overcome
a record electricity shortage that has closed factories and led
to violent protests nationwide. The nation’s electricity
shortfall rises to as much as 5,000 megawatts a day in the
summer.  Hub Power, the second-largest after Kot Addu Power Co.,
supplies 1,292 megawatts a day from its Baluchistan-based oil-
fired thermal power plant, according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 Ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  