-- Munich’s Biggest Power Outage in Two Decades Brings City to Halt
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-11-15T16:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/munich-s-biggest-power-outage-in-two-decades-brings-city-to-halt.html
Munich is recovering from its
biggest power failure in two decades, a blackout that affected
at least 450,000 customers in  Germany ’s third-biggest city,
halting underground trains and trapping people in elevators.  Stadtwerke Muenchen GmbH is investigating the cause of the
outage that spread across Munich’s southwest, starting at 7
a.m., the utility said today in an e-mailed statement. The
outage lasted from 10 minutes in some parts to more than three
hours in the Aubing district, disrupting commutes in the city
that is home to  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , and
causing an explosion at a transformer station in the Bogenhausen
district.  “The last time Munich saw such a wide-spread power failure
was 20 years ago,” said Stephan Schwarz, the managing director
of supply and technology at the utility.  Bernadette Mohme, 31, opted to take the car instead of the
subway when she discovered the failure. It took her almost an
hour to drive about 5 kilometers from her home near the Olympic
stadium to the state parliament at the center, where she works
for the Free Democratic Party.  “Traffic lights were out, so police directed traffic, and
streetcars were stopped in the middle of the street,” Mohme
said by phone. “It was absolute chaos.”  Power supply has moved to the center of the political
agenda in Germany ever since  Chancellor Angela Merkel  decided in
March 2011 to replace nuclear reactors with clean fossil-fired
plants and a growing share of renewable-energy sources. Her
government has backed plans to prevent utilities including EON
SE and  RWE AG (RWE)  from closing unprofitable power plants as the
nation seeks to safeguard supply.  Abrupt Change  The abrupt policy change risks creating shortages in
Germany’s industrial south, which has lost about 5 gigawatts of
reactor capacity, because of a lack of cross-country power
lines, according to state-owned researcher Dena Energy Agency.  Statdwerke Muenchen said the failure originated at the
intersection of a power line owned by the utility and a switch
point of the EON grid. EON rejected the blame, saying in an e-
mailed statement that its network didn’t experience any
interruptions until about an hour after the failure began.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  