-- United Risks Losing Business Fliers on Computer Failures
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-11-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/united-works-to-fix-computer-issue-affecting-flights.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
risks losing more customers, especially business travelers,
after flight delays ensnared thousands of passengers in the
third computer failure this year at the world’s largest airline.  A software breakdown in United’s dispatching system
disrupted service for about two hours and initially threw about
250 flights behind schedule, said Rahsaan Johnson, a spokesman.
Delays cascaded from there to affect hundreds more planes while
Chicago-based United restored regular operations.  The breakdown followed computer malfunctions in March and
August that prompted Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Smisek ’s
pledge last month to win back travelers who switched airlines
because of chronically tardy flights. Business travelers, who
fly often and usually pay the most, are considered particularly
susceptible to changing carriers because of their job needs.  “These kinds of outages, they’re not only publicly
embarrassing when you’ve got a company whose core operations
depend on its IT system working well,” said  Charles King ,
principal analyst at technology consultant  Pund-IT Inc.  “It
costs the company a great deal of money to have their customers
rebook flights on other airlines and face delays.”  United offered to waive change fees for travelers affected
by the failure and refunds for those delayed more than two hours
who opted not to fly, Johnson said.  ‘Operate Reliably’  “We are spending time and effort and money to upgrade the
systems we use,” he said in a telephone interview. “Customers
can absolutely, should absolutely have continued faith in our
ability to operate reliably or recover quickly when there is any
sort of interruption.”  Jay Sorensen, a former airline marketing director who now
runs consultant IdeaWorksCompany in Shorewood,  Wisconsin , said
the recurrence of United’s malfunctions hurt the airline’s
reputation for dependability.  “I’m confident there’s an avoidance factor that’s present
now” for passengers, Sorensen said in a telephone interview.
“The problem here is that it’s invisible to the consumer and
seemingly random.”  The incident yesterday followed a computer failure in
August that delayed 580 flights after the loss of automated
check-ins at airports and on United’s website. The website and
airport kiosks were disrupted in March as the airline combined
reservation systems as part of the 2010 merger between UAL
Corp.’s United Airlines and Continental Airlines Inc.  CEO’s Pledge  Smisek, responding to a third-quarter drop in passengers
amid a jump in late flights, promised analysts and investors on
an Oct. 25 conference call that United would end its operational
struggles and said, “We are now running a reliable airline
again.”  United dropped 2.4 percent to $19.51 at the close yesterday
in New York. That was the biggest decline among 10 carriers in
the  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index (BUSAIRL) , and pared the stock’s gain
for the year to 3.4 percent.  The computer failure lasted from about 7:30 a.m. to about
9:30 a.m.  Chicago  time yesterday. At least 726 United flights
were delayed as of 3:30 p.m., according to industry researcher
FlightStats. Of 1,186 departures tracked, 62 percent were on
time, and 296 of those flights were more than 45 minutes behind
schedule, FlightStats data showed.  The episode wasn’t a safety issue or related to the United-
Continental merger, Johnson said. Regional flights were
unaffected because their dispatch system is managed differently,
Johnson said.  5,600 Flights  United and its commuter partners operate more than 5,600
flights a day. It has hubs in Newark, New Jersey; Houston,
Chicago, Denver,  Los Angeles ,  San Francisco ,  Washington  and
 Cleveland . It had 28 percent of its flights arrive late last
quarter, a rate considered high by U.S. industry standards in a
period that included summer months free of snow.  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  confronted similar risks to
its reputation in September as it struggled to contain flight
delays and cancellations that management blamed on pilots
reporting more plane maintenance issues.  The slowdown followed American’s voiding of its pilots’
contract, and the airline apologized to top-tier members of its
 loyalty program  and then offered extra frequent-flier miles for
flights this year as a sweetener.  Technology consultant King, who is based in Hayward,
California, said United faces pressure to permanently end the
software breakdowns.  “There’s so much riding on it that they have to fix it at
some point,” King said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  