-- Turkcell Chief Sees Profit, Sales at High End of Forecasts
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-11-16T08:04:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/turkcell-chief-sees-profit-sales-at-high-end-of-2012-forecasts.html
Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL) ,
 Turkey ’s biggest mobile-phone operator, will reach the higher
end of its full-year forecast as it adds customers more quickly
than planned, its chief executive officer said.  The phone company will finish 2012 in the upper part of a
range of 10.3 billion liras ($5.7 billion) to 10.4 billion liras
for revenue, and 3.1 billion liras to 3.2 billion liras for
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
Sureyya Ciliv said in an interview yesterday.  That compares with analyst estimates for sales of 10.3
billion liras and Ebitda of 3.1 billion liras,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Turkcell, owned by  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) , Moscow-based Altimo and
Cukurova Holding AS of Turkey, is counting on broadband and
mobile-data services for growth as it tries to defend its 52
percent share in its domestic wireless market against  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  and Avea Iletisim Hizmetleri AS.  Ciliv said the main shareholders now show “progress at
least in attitude and behavior in the boardroom toward
cooperation” after battling for control over the Istanbul-based
company. That will hopefully facilitate the appointment of
independent board members, which regulators have demanded, he
said.  Turkcell shares  fell  5 kurus to 10.85 liras at 10:02 a.m.
Istanbul time. The stock has gained 22 percent this year.  Majority Stake  The carrier, which also has operations in  Kazakhstan ,
 Georgia , Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova, may broaden its footprint
as long as acquisitions give it a majority stake in target
operators, Ciliv said.  Turkcell will “hopefully” decide to pay dividends again
next year after skipping payouts for 2010 and 2011, the CEO
said. The company would also consider buying back shares if
regulators approved such a move, he added.  The company has held discussions with Virgin Mobile and
other phone companies to start a so-called mobile virtual
network operator in Turkey, he said. Currently, such an
operator, which would offer services without having its own
grid, would be subject to “double taxation,” a situation
authorities aren’t currently prepared to change, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Barcleona at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  