-- Viacom’s Profit Rises on Affiliate Fees, Lower Costs
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-11-15T21:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/viacom-s-profit-rises-on-affiliate-fees-lower-costs.html
Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , the media company that
owns Paramount film studios and cable networks such as
Nickelodeon and  MTV , topped analysts’ profit estimates after
cutting expenses and getting more money from pay-TV providers.  Fourth-quarter net income from continuing operations
advanced 12 percent to $643 million, or $1.24 a share, from
$576 million, or $1, a year earlier, New York-based Viacom said
today in a statement. Excluding some items, earnings were $1.21,
topping the $1.17 predicted by analysts, according to  data
compiled  by Bloomberg. Sales missed projections because of
sluggish revenue from advertising and its film studio.  Viacom, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , relies on
its cable-television business for more than 90 percent of
 operating income . While its networks have seen ratings decline,
the company was able to increase revenue from cable providers,
which pay Viacom to air its programming. Viacom is now working
to boost viewership with new shows such as the “Teenage Mutant
Ninja Turtles” series.  “I feel better about the steps we have taken,” Chief
Executive Officer  Philippe Dauman  said today on a conference
call with analysts. “We are living in a world where the media
business is transitioning, and we can grow in that transition
because we have a deeper understanding of the young people
moving with that transition.”  Shares Climb  Viacom rose 2.6 percent to $49.23 at the close in New York.
The stock has climbed 8.4 percent this year.  The company’s domestic advertising revenue declined about
6 percent, and worldwide advertising revenues fell 7 percent.
Revenue from programming fees -- paid by satellite and cable
operators such as  DirecTV (DTV)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  -- rose 12 percent
domestically and 11 percent globally.  “History does show that cable networks have the potential
to stop the bleeding,”  Michael Nathanson , a media analyst with
Nomura Securities Inc. in New York, said in a note before the
earnings report was released. “We think signs of positive life
are beginning to show.”  Total sales fell 17 percent to $3.36 billion in the
fourth quarter, which ended Sept. 30. Analysts had estimated
$3.42 billion on average.  Revenue from the company’s filmed entertainment division,
which includes Paramount film studios, fell 39 percent to
$1.09 billion. Viacom blamed a difficult comparison with the
year-earlier period, when it released the hit movie
“Transformers: Dark of the Moon.”  Viacom bolstered profit by cutting operating expenses and
overhead costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses
dropped 6.7 percent to $691 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  