-- Vinci Joins Fraport Among Five Final Bidders for Portugal’s ANA
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2012-11-15T14:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/vinci-joins-fraport-among-five-final-bidders-for-portugal-s-ana.html
Portugal  named  Vinci SA (DG) ,  Europe ’s
biggest builder, and Fraport AG, owner of Frankfurt airport,
among five bidders invited to submit binding offers for state-
owned airport operator ANA-Aeroportos de Portugal SA.  Flughafen Zuerich AG (FHZN) , which operates Zurich’s airport, and
groups led by Argentine holding company Corporacion America and
Colombian engineering company  Grupo Odinsa SA (ODINSA)  were also
shortlisted to make proposals for ANA, said Maria Luis  Albuquerque , Portugal’s secretary of state for treasury.  “The offers that were chosen coincided with those that had
the best price,” Albuquerque said after a cabinet meeting
today, adding that binding proposals for ANA should be submitted
by mid-December. The government plans to decide on a winner by
the end of the year and conclude the sale next year, she said.  Portugal is trying to sell ANA and state-carrier TAP SA
this year to raise money after seeking a bailout last year from
the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund . The
country received eight non-binding proposals for ANA, the
government said on Oct. 26.  Portuguese builder  Mota-Engil SGPS SA (EGL)  is part of the group
bidding for ANA that is led by Odinsa, the government said.
 Sonae Sierra (SSBR3) , another Portuguese company, is a partner in the
consortium led by Corporacion America, according to Albuquerque.  The five offers for ANA that were shortlisted valued the
airport operator at 12 to 13 times its earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, Albuquerque said. Based on
a multiple of 13 times ANA’s Ebitda from last year, the company
could fetch as much as 2.6 billion euros.  The airport operator’s Ebitda rose 22 percent to 199.8
million euros in 2011 from a year earlier, according to the
 company’s website .  Portugal has hired  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  as advisers for the
disposal of TAP and ANA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  