-- Vivendi’s SFR Predicts Faster Services Will Slow Phone-Bill Drop
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-11-15T13:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/vivendi-s-sfr-predicts-faster-services-will-slow-phone-bill-drop.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s French phone business
SFR predicts revenue per user won’t decline as much next year as
in 2012 as it persuades consumers to spend on faster mobile
Internet services as a strategy to exit a price war.  The new packages will help limit the fall in 2013 and
average revenue per user is set to rebound in 2014, SFR Chief
Executive Officer Stephane Roussel said. French phone companies
have battled with discounted phone packages since  Iliad SA (ILD) ’s
Free brand came into the market in January with prices starting
at 2 euros ($2.55) per month.  “We’ll continue to feel the effect of Free’s offensive in
2013, but we think average revenue per user will fall less than
this year,” Roussel said today in an interview at a
telecommunications conference in Montpellier,  France . “New
high-speed offers built on 4G will bear fruit afterwards --
you’ll see an improvement starting in 2014.”  SFR, which revamped its offers in September into low, mid
and high-end packages, has so far seen more consumer appetite
than expected for its most expensive products, packed with
faster network technology,  customer service  and mobile-phone
subsidies, Roussel said.  While parent Vivendi weighs options to revamp its structure
and sell some assets, SFR is accelerating the deployment of
faster 4G network technology and is in the midst of cutting
costs to save 500 million euros by the end of 2013. Vivendi
investors have been attentive to SFR’s  profit  decline as it
accounts for about 38 percent of the Paris-based group’s
earnings before interest, taxes and amortization.  ‘Atypical Year’  SFR’s average revenue per user dropped 8.8 percent in the
first nine months of 2012, Vivendi has said.  “2012 was a totally atypical year,” Roussel said. Iliad
captured 6.4 percent of the French mobile market in nine months,
in a start unprecedented among other fourth entrants in  Europe .  Roussel declined to comment on Vivendi’s plans for SFR or
discussions about a sale of the phone unit. The parent company
has informally discussed a sale to former co-owner  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , though the two companies remain widely divided on a
valuation, people with knowledge of its plans said last month.
Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  has expressed interest in
buying SFR, the Financial Times said today.  The 51 year-old executive, who began his position in June
after the ouster of Vivendi’s former-chief  Jean-Bernard Levy ,
said SFR is now done redefining its strategy and the response so
far has shown the company has “made the right decisions.”  “All people have been talking about in France is
segmenting the market towards low-cost offers, but the high-end
market also exists,” Roussel said. “While we think about 40
percent of French consumers are very keen on price, we’re also
seeing appetite from clients who are willing to pay 50 euros a
month to get something extraordinary.”  Six Cities  SFR will start 4G service in six French cities by the end
of the first half of 2013, including Marseille, the country’s
second-most populated city after Paris. The French capital will
be covered later on.  Data transfer speeds and customer service have been the
main focus of SFR’s marketing revamp under Roussel. Rival  France
Telecom SA (FTE) , France’s largest carrier, has also said the rollout
of a faster network is vital to charge clients more money.  “Fighting a war only on price just isn’t our strategy,”
Roussel said. “We want to plan ahead and we’re betting on
innovative offers as well as our stores,  call centers  and online
sales to grow with our clients.”  SFR’s cost cuts in part prompted Vivendi to say this week
that its earnings will fall less than expected this year, as
Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou heads into a six month of weighing
options for a strategy change.  Vivendi is preparing to act on its strategic review in
coming quarters as it looks at ways to boost the depressed stock
price, its Chief Financial Officer Philippe Capron said today.
The company has spent the last six months exploring everything
from share buybacks to divestments to restructuring divisions
after its shares lost almost half their value in the past five
years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  