-- Vivendi to Act on Strategic Review in Coming Quarters, CFO Says
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-11-15T08:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/vivendi-to-act-on-strategic-review-in-coming-quarters-cfo-says.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  is preparing to act on
its strategic review in coming quarters as it looks at ways to
boost the depressed stock price, according to Chief Financial
Officer Philippe Capron.  “If we didn’t do anything the stock would plunge again,”
Capron said today in Barcelona at a conference organized by
Morgan Stanley. “Investors would be disappointed after all that
talk about nothing being taboo.”  The company has spent the last six months exploring
everything from share buybacks to  divestments  to restructuring
divisions after its shares lost almost half their value in the
past five years. Capron said that Paris-based Vivendi has no
firm timeline to complete the review.  Vivendi said yesterday that profit will fall less than it
expected this year as cost cuts and video-game demand bolster
earnings as Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou weighs strategy options.
Jean-Bernard Levy was removed as chief executive officer at the
end of June.  The company is a combination of assets including French
phone company SFR, broadcaster  Canal Plus , game maker  Activision
Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  and  Universal Music Group . Cost reductions are
taking hold at SFR, which is revamping phone packages and
becoming leaner to fight Iliad SA, which entered the market in
January with discounted offers. Activision is boosting sales
with games including “Diablo III.”  “We may not be the best owner for all our assets or the
best simultaneous owner for all of our assets,” Capron said
today. “Vivendi has been the product of history at least as
much as design and in a way that’s what we’re trying to
remedy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in Barcelona at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  