-- Wal-Mart’s Asda Sees Tough Christmas as Third-Quarter Sales Slow
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-11-15T15:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/wal-mart-s-asda-sees-tough-christmas-as-third-quarter-sales-slow.html
Asda, the U.K. supermarket chain
owned by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , forecast a “tough Christmas”
after reporting that revenue growth slowed in the third quarter.  Sales at stores open at least a year rose 0.3 percent,
excluding fuel, in the 13 weeks ended Sept. 29, compared with a
0.7 percent gain in the prior quarter, the Leeds, England-based
grocer said today.  Asda has guaranteed it will be 10 percent cheaper, cut
fuel prices and revamped its own-brand labels such as “Chosen
By You” to lure customers. The grocer maintained a 17.5 percent
market share in the 12 weeks ended Oct. 28, according to
Kantar Worldpanel data, while discount chains Aldi and Lidl
increased share.  “The market is still very tough; it’s challenging,” Chief
Executive Office  Andy Clarke  said at a press conference in
London. “It’s going to be a tough Christmas.”  Job security  and higher energy prices are weighing on
customers’ minds, Clarke said, while disposable income is
unchanged. The CEO called on the U.K. government to scrap or at
least delay a rise in fuel duty planned for after Christmas.  J Sainsbury Plc, the U.K.’s third-largest supermarket
company, predicted yesterday that the grocery market will be
difficult in coming months as food inflation rises and household
budgets decline.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, today forecast
fourth-quarter profit that trailed analysts’ estimates. The
company faces threats from discount chains such as Dollar
General Corp. and Dollar Tree Inc.  Discounters Ascend  Asda is watching the growth of European discounters such as
Aldi and Lidl “with interest,” said Richard Mayfield, chief
financial officer of the U.K. chain. The grocer is cutting
prices of basic items including eggs and milk and is offering
deals priced at 1 pound ($1.59).  “All retailers we compete against are world-class,” so
Asda’s strategy is to have the lowest-priced basket of goods, he
said.  Asda said sales from multichannel offerings, such as so-
called click and collect services, have almost doubled since
2010. Web-based commerce is a “healthy, profitable part” of
the business, said Judith McKenna, Asda’s chief operating
officer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  