-- Wal-Mart Forecast Shows Target Winning in Sluggish U.S.
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-11-15T21:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/wal-mart-forecast-shows-target-winning-in-sluggish-u-s-.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s fourth-
quarter forecast signals the world’s largest retailer stands to
face more obstacles than competitors such as  Target Corp. (TGT)  this
holiday season as price-conscious consumers hold back in the
sluggish  U.S. economy .  While Wal-Mart beat analysts’ estimates on third-quarter
profit today, sales in the U.S. and an earnings forecast for
this quarter trailed expectations, pushing the shares down the
most in more than six months. Meanwhile, Target gained 1.7
percent after it met earnings projections.  “That Wal-Mart customer continues to be under pressure,
and that pressure will remain,” Brian Yarbrough, an analyst for
Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , said in a telephone interview.
“Target’s average consumer is higher-income and isn’t under as
much pressure.”  The results came a week before the Thanksgiving weekend,
when retailers unleash discounts and deals to lure shoppers as
part of an unofficial start to the  holiday shopping season . The
biggest shopping period of the year arrives after U.S. retail
sales in October fell 0.3 percent, the first decline in four
months.  Wal-Mart, based in  Bentonville ,  Arkansas , fell 3.6 percent
to $68.72 at the close in New York for the biggest decline since
April 23. Minneapolis-based Target climbed to $62.44.  Executives from both chains mentioned the economy as a
potential drag on sales, though in different terms. Target’s
customers have more confidence in their personal finances while
also being uncertain about the long-term health of the U.S.
economy, Kathee Tesija, the chain’s executive vice president of
merchandising, said on a call with analysts.  Consumers Trading Down  Meanwhile, Wal-Mart’s Chief Financial Officer  Charles Holley  said the economy continues to pressure its customers. At
U.S. Wal-Mart stores and at Sam’s Club, the company’s chain of
membership warehouses, and customers traded down to cheaper
products, such as going to chicken from beef and moving away
from premium brands.  Different sentiments among its customers may have been
reflected in last quarter’s same-store sales, a key assessment
of a retailer’s growth because new stores are excluded. At
Target, the second-largest U.S. discounter after Wal-Mart,
revenue by that measure increased 2.9 percent, almost double the
1.5 percent gain at Wal-Mart’s U.S. stores.  Target may have an edge this holiday season with its focus
on exclusive products, according to Natalie Berg, an analyst at
researcher  Planet Retail  in  London . Target is unveiling a line
of designer goods co-branded with Neiman Marcus Group Inc. on
Dec. 1 to keep store traffic levels high after the initial
holiday rush next week.  Winning Share  “Innovation, technology and exclusive products will be
differentiators this Christmas, and in that regard Target is
much better placed than Wal-Mart to win share,” Berg said in an
e-mail. Because of so many discounts, “retailers will be forced
to provide more than just low prices in order to stand out from
their competitors.”  Wal-Mart’s advantage on price may be slipping too,
according to Yarbrough. Target has said it will match prices in
its stores with items online at large competitors, including
Wal-Mart and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  Target’s loyalty card, which offers
5 percent off purchases, also may bridge that gap, he said.  “That’s another way they differentiate themselves from
Wal-Mart,” said Yarbrough, who recommends buying shares of both
companies.  Wal-Mart Improvement  Still, Wal-Mart continues to show improvement in its U.S.
business, said  David Schick , an analyst for Stifel Financial
Corp. in Baltimore. The chain has posted five straight quarters
of same-store sales gains in the U.S. as it added more items and
cut prices. Sales this month are ahead of expectations,  Bill Simon , president of Wal-Mart U.S., said today on a conference
call.  “The stock is very much overreacting,” Schick, who
recommends buying Wal-Mart shares, said in a telephone
interview. “In October, the business was a little soft, but
it’s already better in November. It’s a better-run business that
should perform well during holiday.”  Wal-Mart’s net income last quarter ended Oct. 31 rose 9
percent to $3.64 billion, or $1.08 a share, from $3.34 billion,
or 96 cents, a year earlier. Analysts projected $1.07 a share,
the average of 23 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The chain’s
fourth-quarter profit will be $1.53 to $1.58 a share. The
average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was $1.59.  At Target, net income in the quarter ended Oct. 27 rose 15
percent to $637 million, or 96 cents a share, from $555 million,
or 82 cents, a year earlier. Analysts projected 96 cents, the
average of six estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Profit in the
fourth quarter will be $1.45 to $1.55 a share. Analysts
projected $1.50, the average of 15 estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  