-- Warhol, Koons Defy Fiscal Cliff at Christie’s Record Sale
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-11-15T05:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/warhol-koons-defy-fiscal-cliff-at-christie-s-record-sale.html
On a day when U.S. stocks lost more
than $240 billion in value, Christie’s held its largest-ever
postwar and contemporary sale, setting records for eight artists
including Franz Kline,  Jeff Koons ,  Donald Judd  and Jean-Michel Basquiat.  The $412.3 million tally last night in New York surpassed
the high estimate of $411.8 million. Just six of 73 lots failed
to find buyers. Presale estimates don’t include the buyer’s
premium, while the sale total does.  “It’s a perfect storm of having good quality and fresh
material,” said  Todd Levin , director of  Levin Art Group  in New
York. “People seem comfortable taking excess capital and
putting it into art.”  The Dow Jones Industrial Average sank 1.5 percent yesterday
to the lowest level since June, on concern about the budget
debate and conflict in Israel. U.S. lawmakers need to reach a
budget agreement to avoid a so-called fiscal cliff of $607
billion in automatic tax increases and spending cuts next year.  At the auction,  Andy Warhol ’s 1962 “Statue of Liberty”
was the top lot, selling for $43.8 million. It had belonged to
German entrepreneur Erich Marx, whose art collection became the
core of the Hamburger Bahnhof contemporary-art museum in Berlin.  It was later acquired by the Daros Collection in Zurich,
which sold it privately to the current undisclosed consignor,
according to  Brett Gorvy , chairman and international head of
postwar and contemporary art at Christie’s.  Brando’s Bike  Another Warhol, a 1966 portrait of leather-clad Marlon Brando on a motorcycle, went for $23.7 million. The work was
consigned by Donald L. Bryant, a former trustee of the Museum of
 Modern Art , who bought it for $5 million at Christie’s in 2003.  “I was prepared to go to $40 million,” said art dealer
David Nahmad, the patriarch of the family, who won the bidding.
“For me, it was the best buy of the sale.”  An untitled 1981 Basquiat painting fetched $26.4 million,
exceeding his previous record of $20.1 million set by Christie’s
in London in June.  Depicting a skeletal figure with a halo above his head and
fish in his hand, the work was shown at the  Whitney Museum of
American Art  in New York in the early 1990s and at the  Beyeler
Foundation  in Basel in 2010.  It was consigned by  Patrick Demarchelier , a fashion
photographer of supermodels  Cindy Crawford  and  Naomi Campbell .
Demarchelier’s images have appeared on more than 30 Vogue covers.  In 1988, it came on the auction block with an estimate
range of $20,000 to $25,000, fetching $110,000.  Record ‘Tulips’  Koons’s record was for the sculpture “Tulips” (1995-2004).
At $33.7 million, it was the second-priciest work for a living
artist. It smashed his previous record of $25.8 million, set for
a “Balloon flower - Magenta” sculpture in London in 2008.  “These artists have achieved a level of recognition
globally,” said Jussi Pylkkanen, president of Christie’s Europe,
Middle East and Russia. “No one questions their quality. The
only question is how much you have to pay to acquire one.”  The record Kline sold for $40.4 million, quadrupling his
previous auction record of $9.3 million, achieved Tuesday at
 Sotheby’s. (BID)  Last night’s untitled work, more than 6 feet high and
9 feet wide, depicts black brush strokes colliding on a white
background.  David Geffen  It had belonged to Robert Mnuchin, a partner at  L&M Arts 
gallery and former equity-trading chief at  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  Entertainment mogul  David Geffen  also at one time owned the
work, which has been exhibited at the  Menil Collection  in
Houston and the  Whitney Museum of American Art  in New York.  “It’s one of the greatest paintings Kline ever made and
particularly impressive given its scale,” said Matthew Armstrong, curator of  Donald Marron ’s collection at Lightyear
Capital LLC in New York. “It’s like a great culminating musical
phrase in which each note is soaring, intense and pitch-
perfect.”  One of the biggest casualties was consigned by  Steven Cohen ,
founder of SAC Capital Advisors. The 1983 painting by German
artist  Gerhard Richter , estimated at $9 million to $12 million,
failed to reach its undisclosed reserve price.  Christie’s charges buyers 25 percent of the hammer price up
to $50,000, plus 20 percent from $50,000 to $1 million and 12
percent above $1 million. Presale estimates don’t include the
buyer’s premium.  Muse highlights include  Joe Mysak  on books, Philip Boroff
on theater.  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net . 