-- What We Learned About School Reform in 2012
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   P e t r i l l i
-- 2012-11-15T23:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/what-we-learned-about-school-reform-in-2012.html
Teachers unions  remain  the Goliath
to the school reformers’ David, even in red states. That was the
lesson from votes last week in  Idaho  and Indiana, where unions
successfully took on or took out Republican school
superintendents.  In Idaho, three laws associated with Tom Luna, the state
superintendent of public instruction, were repealed by
referendum, turning back the clock on efforts to phase out
teacher tenure, to link pay increases to performance and to
expand online learning. Luna’s counterpart in Indiana,  Tony
Bennett , often called the darling of the national education-
reform movement, was  fired  from his job, despite outspending his
little-known, though union-backed, opponent by 4-to-1. Bennett
had been an aggressive advocate of vouchers and charter schools,
and had called for stronger state control of struggling schools.  In hindsight, the losses shouldn’t have been surprising.
Even when reformers outspend their opponents, the unions easily
out-organize them. That comes down to simple arithmetic: With 3
million teachers and several million more bus drivers, food-
service workers, aides and other staff, the public-education
system is the largest employer in the U.S. These folks vote, and
they make their views known to friends, family and neighbors,
through traditional word of mouth and social media. They’ve even
been  known  to send word via the children in their classrooms.  Change Course  What lessons should school reformers take from the  Indiana 
and Idaho experiences? Should we adjust our policies? Our tone?
Our political tactics?  The answer: All three.  First, it’s time to stop angering suburban parents and
teachers by subjecting their schools to changes they  don’t want 
or need. It’s not that suburban schools are perfect -- their
performance lags behind that of our international competitors,
too. But the policies required for these schools to go from good
to great are different from those needed to get urban schools
from dismal to decent. In nations with the best schools, local
leaders have the power to make day-to-day decisions and aren’t
micromanaged from on high.  Top-down, one-size-fits-all efforts such as formulaic
teacher evaluations tend to overemphasize the high-stakes
testing that can take the joy out of learning. Parents and
teachers in richer areas typically hate this pressure.  Furthermore, reformers can’t put together winning political
coalitions if they lose the suburbs. (Had Bennett limited his
efforts to fixing Indiana’s inner-city schools, I bet that
suburban Republican voters wouldn’t have turned against him. In
fact, several change-minded candidates won highly contested
school-board seats in Indianapolis,  demonstrating  a strong
desire for urban reform.) When it comes to middle-class schools,
reformers should follow the doctors’ dictum: First, do no harm.  Second, we must renew efforts to show respect for teachers.
This can be complicated: Many schools face a teacher-quality
crisis after years of low professional-entry standards and lax
 accountability.  At the same time, most teachers are dedicated
and hardworking. We need to stress that bad teachers are rare
but devastating and that efforts to weed them out will lift the
entire profession. Any rhetoric that implies that most or even
many teachers are incompetent or uncommitted to children needs
to be scrapped.  Finally, proponents have to get better at political
organizing, especially the ground game. The only way to defeat
an army of determined educators is with a larger army of equally
determined parents. The advocates of school vouchers and home-
schooling have learned this lesson and can bring busloads of
supporters to the steps of state capitols on remarkably short
notice.  Florida Success  That has been critical to the  success  of school choice in
 Florida , for example, where 5,000 people, including low-income
parents, turned out for a 2010 march in Tallahassee. The broader
movement needs to head toward identifying parent activists and
engaging them in the fight. That will also protect the coalition
from charges of engaging in “AstroTurf organizing” financed by
private-sector money. Reformers have to keep it real.  No young movement in any field can win every battle all the
time. Setbacks are inevitable. Victory over the long run can be
achieved only if we learn the right lessons from defeat. By
aiming our efforts at the schools with the gravest problems,
changing our tone and improving our organizing tactics, we can
keep moving in the right direction. The fight to guarantee all
children a decent education goes on.  (Michael J. Petrilli is research fellow at the  Hoover
Institution , executive vice president of the Thomas B. Fordham
Institute and author of “The Diverse Schools Dilemma.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Israel’s right to respond  to
rocket attacks, on  Grover Norquist’s gift to Republicans  and on
why  simple banking regulations are better ; Stephen L. Carter on
what  Obama can learn from FDR  about business;  Susan Crawford  on
 why mobile phones went dead after Hurricane Sandy ; William Pesek
on  Obama’s Southeast Asia trip ;  Jonathan Weil  on the  Justice
Department ’s  white-collar prosecution numbers ; Kori Schake on
 adultery and the U.S. military honor code .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Petrilli at  mpetrilli@edexcellence.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 