-- Why Cell Phones Went Dead After Hurricane Sandy
-- B y   S u s a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-11-15T23:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/why-cell-phones-went-dead-after-hurricane-sandy.html
After  Hurricane Sandy , survivors
needed, in addition to safety and power, the ability to
communicate. Yet in parts of  New York  City, mobile
communications services were knocked out for days.  The problem? The companies that provide them had
successfully resisted Federal Communications Commission calls to
make emergency preparations, leaving  New Yorkers  to rely on the
carriers’ voluntary efforts.  We have so far heard few details about why the companies
made the particular business choices they did on backup power
and what the consequences of those choices were, because the FCC
has been blocked from asking -- even though about a third of
people rely on  mobile service  as their only voice-communications
connection.  Americans might assume that the U.S. government exercises
enough authority over communications networks to ensure that
they are responsibly run, reliable and available to all at
reasonable rates. In reality, after a decade of steady
deregulation, during which communications companies asserted
that new wires required new rules, the companies are in charge
of themselves.  What’s more, those that sell network connections in the
U.S. are trying to claim a constitutional right to operate
without any federal oversight.  Constitutional Coverage  At the moment, in the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
District of Columbia Circuit,  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  is
attempting to legally bar Congress and the FCC from exerting any
authority over its networks, claiming that the First Amendment
protects the company’s “editorial discretion.” (I am among a
large group of current and former government officials who this
week filed a  brief  opposing that startling argument.)  The sweeping economic and social implications of Verizon’s
assertions are deeply troubling. High-speed Internet has become
vital to communications in the U.S. Yet Verizon wants network
operators to possess the same free-speech rights that newspaper
publishers have to control the contents of their editorial
pages. This could preclude Congress from making any law that
inhibits a company’s business choices, whether to inflict harm
on a competitor or to suppress or ignore points of view of which
it disapproves.  Verizon certainly has the constitutional right to make this
argument. The country needs to understand, however, that what
it’s asking for is to privilege its own speech over that of more
than 300 million Americans.  Because any communications company’s job is to transmit
speech, not to determine its content, the court should decide
that Verizon is not, in a legal sense, a “speaker.”  This particular lawsuit is just one push in a longer effort
by Verizon and the other high-speed Internet-access providers to
get immunity from oversight. AT&T Inc., just last week, filed a
petition with the FCC seeking wholesale deregulation of its
wires. According to  Harold Feld  of the consumer advocacy group
 Public Knowledge , this would make the company immune to all laws
promoting consumer protection, competition and universal
affordable communications. California became the most recent of
 more than 20 states  to eliminate its authority over digital
networks.  And consider why the FCC now is unable even to ask
communications companies about their contingency plans for
responding to a loss of power caused by a hurricane or other
natural disaster. Five years ago the FCC, responding to  findings 
that communications companies had supplied too little backup
power during and after  Hurricane Katrina ,  moved  to adopt rules
requiring the companies to have emergency energy sources. In
response, the companies sued, claiming that the commission had
no authority over them. Before that case could be resolved, the
George W. Bush administration’s Office of Management and Budget
determined that such rules would require the companies to incur
undue costs to gather the needed information, and the commission
withdrew its effort altogether.  Emergency Service  The wireless companies crowed over this victory: “We
believe that having the flexibility to adapt to unique emergency
situations will better serve American wireless consumers.”  Verizon’s current First Amendment claim, read for all it is
worth, is an attempt to push further against regulation than
communications companies ever have before. The Constitution
shouldn’t be used as a sledgehammer to protect the business
interests of a small set of giant companies on whose services
the entire country depends.  ( Susan Crawford  is a contributor to Bloomberg View and a
visiting professor at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government
and  Harvard Law School . She is a former special assistant to
President  Barack Obama  for science, technology and innovation
policy. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Israel’s right to respond  to
rocket attacks, on  Grover Norquist’s gift to Republicans  and on
why  simple banking regulations are better ; Stephen L. Carter on
what  Obama can learn from FDR  about business; William Pesek on
 Obama’s Southeast Asia trip ;  Jonathan Weil  on the  Justice
Department ’s  white-collar prosecution numbers ; Michael Petrilli
on what  education reformers need to do differently ; Kori Schake
on  adultery and the U.S. military honor code .  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan P. Crawford at  scrawford@scrawford.net  or  @scrawford  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 