-- Williams Says Fed May Buy $85 Billion in Bonds Per Month
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-11-15T05:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/williams-says-fed-may-buy-85-billion-in-bonds-per-month.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President John Williams said the central bank will
probably buy about $85 billion in bonds per month starting in
early 2013 and continue purchasing securities well into the
second half of the year.  “I expect it will be some time until the job market makes
substantial progress towards our congressionally mandated
maximum employment goal,” Williams said yesterday in a speech
in San Francisco. “I anticipate that we will need to continue
our purchases of mortgage-backed securities and longer-term
Treasury securities past the end of this year and likely well
into the second half of next year.”  A number of Fed officials said the central bank may need to
expand its monthly bond purchases after the expiration in
December of a program known as Operation Twist that swaps $45
billion of short-term Treasuries on its balance sheet each month
for longer-term debt, minutes of the Federal Open Market
Committee’s Oct. 23-24 meeting showed yesterday. The FOMC in
October voted to keep buying $40 billion in mortgage bonds per
month to spur the job market.  The Fed will probably need to buy mortgage bonds and
Treasuries early next year “at the same rate” it is purchasing
now, while halting the sale of shorter-term holdings when
Operation Twist expires, Williams told reporters after the
speech at the University of San Francisco.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index extended declines after
release of the Fed minutes, falling 1.4 percent to 1,355.49 in
New York yesterday. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury
was little changed at 1.59 percent.  Bond Holdings  The FOMC is next scheduled to meet Dec. 11-12, shortly
before the expiration of Operation Twist. Williams was among the
first Fed officials to advocate a bond-buying program without a
fixed duration or total amount, a step the central bank took in
September.  Williams said yesterday that he wants to see more than 200,000
jobs created every month over a sustained period before the Fed
ends its latest round of quantitative easing.  In response to a question from the audience, Williams said
he doesn’t believe that the Fed’s policies are producing
diminishing returns. The central bank’s stimulus may now have
more impact than a year ago because the housing market has
improved, he said.  Fed officials in October also discussed whether to link
their policy holding the main interest rate at zero to
measurements of unemployment and inflation instead of a calendar
date, according minutes of the gathering.  Specify Thresholds  Participants “generally favored” specifying these
thresholds over the current approach of setting a time period,
minutes of the October meeting said. The FOMC currently expects
to keep rates low through mid-2015.  Vice Chairman Janet Yellen on Nov. 13 endorsed linking the
zero-rate policy to economic thresholds, joining Chicago’s
Charles Evans,  Minneapolis ’ Narayana Kocherlakota and  Boston ’s
 Eric Rosengren .  Williams, who is a voting member of the FOMC this year,
said yesterday he is “wrestling” with the best way to
communicate the Fed’s intentions on its monetary policy.  A numbers-based approach may risk leading the public to
believe the Fed will tighten as soon as the unemployment or
inflation thresholds are met, he said, adding that a broad set
of data would be needed to accurately size up the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  