-- Dollar Advances Against Euro Amid Fiscal-Cliff Meeting
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-11-16T22:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/yen-near-6-month-low-as-election-spurs-bets-of-more-boj-easing.html
The dollar rose for the first time
in three days versus the euro as investors sought haven assets
amid concern President  Barack Obama ’s talks with U.S. lawmakers
to avert the so-called fiscal cliff will stall.  The Dollar Index extended its fourth weekly advance as
Hamas said it fired at the parliament in  Jerusalem  as Israel
deployed tanks near the Gaza border. The yen strengthened
against most of its 16 major counterparts amid speculation this
week’s drop was too rapid. The franc fell after Swiss National
Bank President Thomas Jordan said the currency remains a strain
on the economy.  “You have this fiscal-cliff issue being seen as very risk
negative,”  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group of 10 foreign-
exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with Sara Eisen. “The dollar is reacting in a very orthodox fashion to
this. Eventually, this is going to turn into a risk-buying
opportunity.”  The dollar climbed 0.3 percent to $1.2743 per euro at 5
p.m. New York time. It rose 0.2 percent to 81.32 yen, advancing
2.3 percent for the week. The greenback touched 81.46 yen
yesterday, the strongest level since April 25. The Japanese
currency gained 0.1 percent to 103.60 per euro and posted a
weekly decline of 2.5 percent.  The greenback may increase to the low $1.30 range against
the euro if investors reverse course and start seeking risk,
according to Ruskin. The dollar last broke $1.30 on Oct. 31.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which is used to track the greenback
versus the currencies of six U.S. trading partners, rose 0.1
percent to 81.194, extending its weekly advance to 0.2 percent.  Rand, Franc  South Africa’s rand gained versus all of its major
counterparts after failing yesterday to break through 9 per
dollar, seen as an important resistance level to further
weakness. Resistance refers to an area on a chart where sell
orders may be gathered.  The currency advanced 0.6 percent to 8.8643 per dollar
after appreciating as much as 0.8 percent, its biggest increase
since Nov. 6. The rand has still weakened against all of its
major peers but the yen this week.  The franc fell against the dollar after Jordan addressed
the SNB ceiling of 1.20 francs per euro, introduced in September
2011 after the currency rose to a record, hurting exporters.  “At its current rate, the Swiss franc remains high and is
weighing on the Swiss economy,” Jordan said in Zurich today,
according to a copy of his speech. “The minimum exchange rate
against the euro will continue to apply” as the reasons for
setting it “retain their validity.”  Middle East  The franc dropped 0.4 percent to 94.55 centimes per dollar
and was little changed at 1.2048 versus the euro. It touched
1.2035 on Nov. 14, the strongest since Sept. 12.  The euro declined against the majority of its most-traded
peers as  Israel  continued its bombing of the Gaza Strip and
militant groups fired rockets at the Jewish state.  The unrest in the the Middle East is “something that’s
weighing on sentiment in general,” Eric Viloria, senior
currency strategist for Gain Capital Group LLC in New York.
“It’s certainly one of several concerns that’s putting pressure
on the euro.”  The dollar remained stronger after House Speaker John
Boehner said he offered a “framework” including new revenue to
reduce the U.S. budget deficit in his first face-to-face talks
today with Obama and top Congress leaders since the Nov. 6
election. The leaders will meet again with Obama the week after
Thanksgiving, he said.  ‘Risk-Negative’  “Investors might be taking a little risk off the table,”
Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “The idea that the
two sides are still far apart would likely be a risk-negative
development.”  If the U.S. Congress doesn’t act by the end of the year,
$607 billion in spending cuts and tax increases are scheduled to
take effect starting in January, while the $16.4 trillion debt
ceiling must be raised before it’s reached early next year for
the nation to continue to borrow.  The dollar held gains even as output at factories, mines
and utilities dropped 0.4 percent last month after a revised 0.2
percent increase in September that was smaller than previously
estimated, Federal Reserve data showed today in  Washington .
Economists forecast a 0.2 percent gain, according to the
Bloomberg survey median. The Fed said the storm cut total
production by almost 1 percentage point.  Japan Elections  The dollar has advanced 1.7 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The yen dropped 1.7 percent and
the euro fell 1 percent.  The yen still registered its steepest weekly drop against
the dollar since February on prospects  Japan ’s opposition party
will take power after elections next month and increase pressure
on the central bank to expand monetary easing.  The Japanese currency has seen “several days of strong
rallies” after Liberal Democratic Party head Shinzo Abe called
for the central bank to provide unlimited stimulus, according to
Boris Schlossberg, managing director of foreign exchange at BK
Asset Management. The yen should continue its upward trend if it
stays about at key resistance level at 81.50, he said.  ‘Serious Attempt’  “Abe’s stance is the first sign of a serious attempt to
realign Japan’s ineffective monetary and exchange-rate policy,”
Schlossberg said. “If he is elected the markets will likely
give him the benefit of doubt, propping up dollar-yen for the
time being.”  Europe ’s shared currency pared a weekly advance against the
yen as euro-area finance ministers prepared to meet in Brussels
on Nov. 20 to discuss ways of plugging the funding gap resulting
from granting  Greece  an extension to reach budget-deficit goals
in its bailout program.  “The focus is on Greece and its funding,” said  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of currency strategy at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt . “If we see a solution on Greece at the meeting next
week then we might see some relief in the euro.”  Europe’s shared currency is likely to stay above its 100-
day moving average at $1.2648, analysts at Landesbank Hessen-
Thueringen in Frankfurt including Ralf Umlauf wrote in a note to
investors today. The currency, which reached a two-month low
against the dollar this week, is oversold, according to a
stochastic technical indicator, the strategists said, and
therefore may stabilize around current levels.  The stochastic oscillator was at 10 today, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, below the 30 threshold that signals
the currency may have depreciated too quickly and is poised for
a rebound.  A stochastic oscillator chart measures the closing price of
a security relative to its highs and lows during a particular
period to try to predict whether it will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  