-- Zimbabwe Cuts Growth Forecasts Ahead of Planned 2013 Election
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m   a n d   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2012-11-15T16:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/zimbabwe-cuts-growth-forecasts-ahead-of-planned-2013-election.html
Zimbabwean Finance Minister  Tendai Biti  cut the country’s growth forecasts to 4.4 percent for this
year and 5 percent for 2013, citing a high  budget deficit  and
the cost of state wages.  “Growth in 2013 will be 5 percent and this is a
disaster,” Biti said while presenting  Zimbabwe ’s national
budget in Parliament today. “We’re killing a rat, but eating an
elephant,” he said, referring to a budget deficit of $260
million.  Zimbabwe is spending 8.6 percent of GDP on imports, while
$1.2 billion of the country’s $3.5 billion in revenue is spent
on state wages, Biti said. “This isn’t sustainable and we have
to deal with the supply-side of the economy.”  Biti, who is also secretary general of the Movement for
Democratic Change party which shares power with President  Robert Mugabe ’s Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front, said
he would find the cash to finance elections and a constitutional
referendum next year.  “You can’t have peace unless you pay for it,” he said.
“We will have to fund a referendum and an election. Those
elections must be free of violence. Violence is a major threat
to the economy.”  Under an agreement brokered by the  Southern African
Development Community  in 2008 and 2009, Zimbabwe’s sparring
political parties must end their power-sharing arrangement
following a new constitution and an election. The accord came
out of failed elections in 2008 that were declared void by SADC
after attacks on MDC supporters.  Banking Misadventure  Moves to regulate Zimbabwe’s banking sector will take place
next year, Biti told parliament today.  “There’s a lack of strategic thinking by foreign-owned
banks operating in Zimbabwe,” he said. “I am extremely
mortified and mystified by them. We are now moving in to
regulate the sector.”  Biti, together with Zimbabwe’s central bank, has failed to
sell treasury bills to foreign banks in recent months after the
banks offered  interest rates  unacceptable to the government.  “We have had misadventures on the issue of treasury bills
and we are now taking major measures to resolve this,” said
Biti. “The Bankers’ Association of Zimbabwe and the central
bank will have to sit down and agree on the manner on which the
lending rate is defined.”  Biti said four banks hold 80 percent of all deposits in
Zimbabwe. He didn’t name the banks.  For Company News:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Latham in Harare at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net ;
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  