-- Zynga Treasurer Mike Gupta Leaves for Finance Job at Twitter
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-11-15T18:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-15/zynga-treasurer-mike-gupta-departs-for-finance-role-at-twitter.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  Treasurer Mike Gupta is
departing to take a similar role at Twitter Inc. as the largest
maker of games played on social networks struggles to retain top
managers amid slowing growth.  Gupta, a former  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  executive who joined Zynga in
2011, has been named Twitter’s vice president of corporate
finance and treasurer, San Francisco-based Twitter said in an e-
mailed statement.  More than a half-dozen other senior executives have left
Zynga in recent months amid a stock-price decline and growing
concern among investors about the company’s ability to
accelerate growth. David Wehner, the game maker’s former chief
financial officer, resigned to take a job at  Facebook Inc. (FB)  this
week. Mark Vranesh, a former CFO at Zynga, resumed the post.  Twitter is adding managers with public-company experience
as the microblogging service prepares for an eventual initial
public offering. Its finance team is led by CFO Ali Rowghani, a
former executive from Walt Disney Co.’s Pixar unit who has
assumed a broad range of responsibilities at Twitter, including
oversight of partnerships and global expansion.  Gupta is a former vice president of  investment banking  at
Merrill Lynch & Co., according to his profile on  LinkedIn
Corp. (LNKD) ’s website. He joined Yahoo in 2003 and worked there for
eight years.  Dani Dudeck, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Zynga,
declined to comment.  Jeff Karp, Zynga’s former marketing chief, resigned in
September, following the departures of former Chief Operating
Officer John Schappert and former chief creative officer Mike Verdu.  Zynga rose 6.5 percent to $2.28 at 1:25 p.m. in New York.
Its shares have tumbled 79 percent since a December initial
public offering through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  