-- Dead-Celebrity Dealmaker Salter Buys Marilyn Monroe Name
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2011-01-13T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-13/dead-celebrity-dealmaker-salter-buys-marilyn-monroe-name.html
Dealmaker Jamie Salter, who already
markets Bob Marley-themed merchandise, has agreed to acquire the
rights to another dead celebrity: Marilyn Monroe.  Salter’s New York-based firm  Authentic Brands Group LLC  and
media company Neca Inc. are buying  Marilyn Monroe  LLC from the
late star’s estate, Salter said. Anna Strasberg, who is the
administrator of the estate, will be a minority partner in the
venture, which will control, among other things, the actress’s
name and images of her lips and eyes, he said.  Authentic brands, which is backed by Leonard Green &
Partners LP, is shopping a reality show based on Monroe, who has
been dead almost 50 years, and plans to sell makeup, lingerie
and other products that carry her name, Salter said.  “Every female celebrity has tried to emulate her in some
way,” said Salter, who declined to say how much his firm paid
for the name. “Marilyn Monroe is the brand.”  Dead stars and their associated business generated $2.25
billion in North American revenue in 2009, says Ira Mayer, who
runs The Licensing Letter, which tracks licensing deals. UBS,
PSA Peugeot Citroen and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA’s Montblanc
have all hitched their brands to dead icons.  “The interest in dead celebrities by brands is only
growing because it’s a known quantity,” said David Reeder, vice
president at GreenLight, a unit of Corbis Corp. that represents
the estates of Steve McQueen,  Johnny Cash  and  Andy Warhol .
“There’s a lot of private-equity money looking to buy
entertainment properties.”  ‘Face of Marilyn’  Authentic Brands is in talks with mass and luxury retailers
to sell a line of Monroe-branded lingerie, cosmetics and home
products, Salter said. The proposed reality TV show, “Who is
The Next Face of Marilyn,” would feature contestants vying to
represent the Monroe brand.  Last year, Salter, 47, agreed to buy TapouT, Silver Star
Casting Co. and Hitman Fight Gear, three apparel brands that
cater to fans of the  Ultimate Fighting Championship , the mixed
martial arts network.  He got into the dead celeb game in 2009 when he and his
former employer Hilco Consumer Capital partnered with the estate
of Bob Marley to sell merchandise under the late reggae singer’s
name.  Since then, the Marley enterprise has launched a line of
earbuds and headphones, featuring collections called “Freedom”
and “Jammin,” under the House of Marley brand.  The partners also sell  Marley’s Mellow Mood , a "relaxation
drink" made from green tea, Valerian root extract and other
ingredients by the Marley Beverage Co. It’s for sale in 2,000
U.S. supermarkets, Salter says.  ‘Prolong Celebrity Life’  Marilyn Monroe is the latest dead celebrity to launch a new
career. A photo of the late actorMcQueen appears in UBS’s “We
Will Not Rest” television campaign, which celebrates achievers.
The John Lennon estate has deals with Citroen and Montblanc.
Last year, Fender Musical Instruments Corp. sponsored the
“Experience Hendrix” tour, which featured artists performing
music associated with guitar legend  Jimi Hendrix .  “You want to prolong the life of the celebrity, and
licensing is a powerful means of accomplishing that,” Mayer of
The Licensing Letter said.    CKX Inc ., an entertainment conglomerate that produces
  American Idol ,” has an 85 percent interest in Elvis Presley
Enterprises, which controls the late musician’s estate. Lisa
Marie Presley, his daughter, remains a shareholder. New York-
based CKX has since signed with  Sirius XM Radio Inc . for an
Elvis channel, just inked a deal with Liquid Comics to develop
an Elvis character and expanded the relationship with  International Game Technology  for Elvis slot machines.  ‘Viva Elvis’  CKX also cut a deal with Cirque du Soleil to stage a
tribute show called “Viva Elvis” at the Aria Resort & Casino
in  Las Vegas . Since opening last February, the show has brought
a new audience to the Elvis brand, said CKX Chief Executive
Officer Mike Ferrel.  “The family felt they had taken the brand as far as they
could,” Ferrel said in a telephone interview.  Monroe would be 84 had she lived, and her image may not
resonate with a younger generation, says Michael Stone, founder
of the Beanstalk Group, a New York brand consultant that has
worked with Procter & Gamble Co. and Ford Motor Co.  “The people who grew up with Marilyn Monroe are in their
70s now,” said Stone. “How does a Marilyn Monroe compete with
a Celine Dion fragrance when Celine can be in the commercial?”  The social media revolution has exposed younger audiences
to celebrities, including ones no longer in the public eye -- or
even alive -- says Salter’s partner Joel Weinshanker, president
and chief operating officer of Neca, which handles licensing for
such films as “The Lord of the Rings” and “Twilight.”  ‘That Wall’s Disappeared’  “There always used to be a wall between a movie star and a
fan, between a musician and a fan,” he says. “In the 21st
century, that wall’s disappeared.”  Monroe’s  Facebook  fan page has about 355,400 friends and
features film clips. The two dealmakers plan to devote part of
the Marilyn advertising budget to Facebook.  It’s easy to damage the brand of an iconic star of
yesteryear, says Mayer. He points to the commercial that ran
during the 1997 Super Bowl U.S. football championship, in which
Fred Astaire danced with a Dirt Devil, a vacuum cleaner brand
since acquired by  Techtronic Industries Co . At the time many
viewers expressed revulsion, and the spot made worst lists of
Super Bowl ads.  Reviving dead celebrities for profit requires taste and
authenticity, says Salter. “That’s how we create value,” he
says. “Everything we do must have authentic DNA.”  Ultimately, Salter may add to his roster of dead
celebrities, he says. Another that may eventually be up for
grabs: Hendrix.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  