-- 
Oil-Drilling Permits in U.S. Won’t Be Delayed

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-04-13T23:47:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-13/drilling-oversight-reform-far-from-complete-bromwich-says.html
(Corrects value of pumped crude in third paragraph of story
published Jan. 13.)  The overhaul of U.S. oil-drilling
regulations, while “far from complete,” won’t slow the review
of applications from producers seeking to resume exploration in
the  Gulf of Mexico , the industry’s regulator said.  “We will implement reforms necessary to make offshore oil
and gas production safer,” Michael R. Bromwich, director of the
 Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement ,
said today in a Washington speech. “The processing of drilling
permit applications and proposed drilling plans will not be
delayed while these additional reforms are developed.”  The agency has yet to issue a permit for the type of
exploration banned by a moratorium on deep-water drilling
imposed after the April 20 blowout of the  BP Plc (BP/)  well off the
Louisiana coast. At stake is development in a region that
produces more oil than the U.K., Qatar or  Indonesia , and pumped
$35.3 billion in crude in 2009.  The Obama administration will add measures regarding
blowout preventers, remotely operated vehicles and workplace
safety, Bromwich said in his speech.  Bromwich sought to tamp down what he called “significant
anxiety” among companies, trade groups and lawmakers concerned
that the agency has other requirements “up our sleeve.”  “Barring significant, unanticipated revelations from
investigations into the root causes of the Deepwater Horizon
explosion that remain in process, I do not anticipate further
emergency rulemakings,” Bromwich said in his remarks.  The regulator isn’t delaying permits until the second half,
Bromwich said, answering a question about whether the agency
will wait until the third or fourth quarter. He didn’t elaborate
on the timing of issuing permits.  The agency is “thoroughly reviewing” the report of the
 National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill , which
recommended further reorganization of drilling oversight in its
findings published Jan. 11, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington
at   kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 