-- JPMorgan Closes Foreign Embassy Accounts, Squeezes Diplomats' Cash Flow
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2011-01-14T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-13/jpmorgan-decision-to-close-foreign-accounts-squeezes-diplomats-cash-flow.html
The decision of JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and several other banks to close accounts of foreign embassies
and  United Nations  missions is creating a cash-flow pinch for
diplomats in the U.S. with bills to pay and payrolls to meet.  “It is a problem,”  South Africa ’s Ambassador Baso Sangqu
said yesterday. “We cannot get banking services. We are
shopping around.”  New York-based JPMorgan, the second biggest U.S. bank by
assets, notified foreign governments in a Sept. 30 letter that
their accounts would be closed on March 31. The letter didn’t
give a reason for the decision and JPMorgan Chase spokesman  Tom Kelly  declined to comment.  Other diplomats said they haven’t been able to find banks
that will accept their accounts and that they might face
difficulty paying their staffs in  New York  and  Washington  and
fulfilling such obligations as contributions to the UN
peacekeeping and operational budgets.  “We can’t find another bank,”  Egypt ’s Ambassador Maged Abdelaziz said. “They say they don’t have any space.”  Abdelaziz said he understood that U.S. government
requirements that JPMorgan and other banks monitor foreign
accounts for  money laundering  or transactions that could be
linked to terrorist groups made those parts of their business
too costly. He said the banks feel “overburdened” by the
requirement of submitting reports to the government.  U.S. National Interest  The banks’ decisions pose “very real questions and very
real concerns,” Under Secretary of State Patrick Kennedy told
reporters after meeting with envoys of more than 100 nations
yesterday. “The State and Treasury departments have been in
communication with the banking industry. We made it clear there
was a U.S. national interest in working with embassies in
Washington and missions to the UN in New York.”  Kennedy said Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  were working with the
U.S. banking industry to resolve the problem. Mark Poncy, the
Treasury Department’s director of the office of strategic
policy, also briefed the diplomats and answered their questions
in a two-hour meeting.  Kennedy said a “handful” of banks had made the decision
to end the diplomatic accounts for “business reasons” that he
wouldn’t specify, and that a “significant” amount of money was
involved. He declined to identify the banks and said the U.S.
offered suggestions to the diplomats on how they could persuade
other banks to accept their money.  Bank Regulation  “Banks in the U.S. are private entities,” Kennedy said.
“They are government-regulated, but not government-directed.”
Bankers take the position that “we have done our economic
analysis and we are a for-profit organization,” he said.    Iran ’s Ambassador Mohammad Khazaee said the banks’ decision
threatens the “existence” of the UN. “It is almost
everybody,” he said. “Missions cannot function.”  China’s Deputy Ambassador Wang Min said his government must
look for another U.S. bank and doesn’t know what will happen.  Iran’s Khazaee said he suggested the UN take its money out
of JPMorgan in retaliation for the move. JPMorgan had a branch
in the UN headquarters complex before the renovation of the
buildings began last year.  UN spokesman Farhan Haq said, while the organization’s own
bank accounts with JPMorgan aren’t directly affected by the
bank’s decision, their future relations are “up for
discussion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  