-- ‘Winslow Boy’; ‘Model Apartment’; Judy Collins: Theater
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-10-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/-winslow-boy-model-apartment-judy-collins-theater.html
The  Roundabout  has struck gold with
Terence Rattigan’s 1946 play, “The Winslow Boy.” It returns
Roger Rees to Broadway after a long hiatus, perfectly cast as a
man determined to defend family honor against extraordinary
odds.  Set exclusively in the living room of an upper-middle-class
London family just before World War I, this is a courtroom drama
without the courtroom.  Young Ronnie Winslow has been expelled from military school
for cashing a five-shilling postal order, a crime he swears to
his father that he didn’t commit.  Denied a hearing by the school authorities, Arthur Winslow
takes his son’s case to the courts, urged on by Sir Robert
Morton, the extravagantly expensive lawyer who may have his own
publicity agenda.  Rees ideally captures the almost sickly Arthur’s
invigoration at the challenge and his slow, subsequent
diminishment as he is sapped of health, wealth and stamina by
the prolonged battle. Alessandro Nivola is thoroughly engaging
as the cunning, cutting Morton.  Lindsay Posner’s elegant staging heightens the spring-wound
tension Rattigan skillfully builds. The supporting cast is
uniformly first rate, especially Michael Cumpsty as the
Winslow’s hangdog retainer and  Charlotte  Parry as the object of
his unrequited affection.  Through Dec. 1 at the American Airlines Theatre, 227 W.
42nd St. Information: +1-212-719-1300;
 http://www.roundabouttheatre.org . Rating: ****  ‘Model Apartment’  In Donald Margulies’s riveting “The Model Apartment,” an
elderly couple (Mark Blum and the luminous Kathryn Grody), both
survivors of the Holocaust, arrive in dark of night at the
Florida condo complex where they have come to escape their
feral, mentally ill grown daughter (Diane Davis, bravely
terrifying).  The couple settles for the evening in a model apartment
where everything is fake, including the fridge and TV. Then the
daughter shows up, followed by her crude boyfriend (Hubert
Point-du Jour).  Over the course of its one explosive act, Margulies
explores with unnerving clarity how personal experience shapes
(not to say distorts) not only ourselves but those we profess to
love. Evan Cabnet’s staging, on a superb realistic set by Lauren
Helpern, is gripping from start to finish.  Through Nov. 1 at Primary Stages, 59 E. 59th St.
Information: +1-212-279-4200;  http://www.primarystages.org .
Rating: ****  Romeo 2.0  There are two big-deal productions of Shakespeare’s “Romeo
and Juliet” this fall, one on Broadway and, now, another
downtown at the  Classic Stage Company  with Julian Cihi and
starlet Elizabeth Olsen (currently in the film “Kill Your
Darlings”). At least they look age-appropriate for the soon-to-be teen angels, which is not the case uptown.  But Tea Alagic’s sort-of modern production, on a sleek,
uncluttered set, is a similar mishmash of gimmicks and
silliness: For the Capulet ball, Romeo dons a Winnie the Pooh
mask. Juliet lacks a balcony.  The wonderful Daphne Rubin-Vega is reduced to a stereotype
Latina firecracker as the Nurse. Spike-heeled Kathryn Meisle’s
Lady Capulet is competitive with her daughter and, in the best
performance, T.R. Knight snaps everything to life as Mercutio.  Through Nov. 110 at Classic Stage Co., 136 E. 13th St.
Information: +1-212-352-3101;  http://www.classicstage.org .
Rating: **1/2  Trudie Styler  Thomas Kilroy’s adaptation of Chekhov’s “The Seagull”
moves the setting from pre-Revolutionary  Russia  to 19th-century
Ireland. It works well, especially given Kilroy’s lucid,
colloquial translation.  Trudie Styler  (in her other life Mrs. Sting) is too stagey
as Madame Arkadina, here called Isobel. Directed by Max Stafford-Clark, the other roles are exquisitely cast in this
bare-bones production. (Through Nov. 3 at the Lynn Redgrave
Theatre, 45 Bleecker St. Information: +1-866-811-4111;
 http://www.cultureproject.org . Rating: ***)  For the real Irish thing, don’t miss Judy Collins,
returning to the  Cafe Carlyle  for two weeks. Age has only
mellowed that gorgeous voice as she takes us on a tour of music
from her father’s Celtic ballads through familiar tunes from
 Leonard Cohen ,  Joni Mitchell  and the Broadway pantheon.  The stories are funny; the music’s sublime. (Through Oct.
26 at the Cafe Carlyle, 35 E. 76th St. Information: +1-212-744-1600;  http://www.thecarlyle.com . Rating: *****)  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  New York   Weekend  and  Greg Evans  on
TV.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 