-- 21st Century Fox Investors Reject Splitting Murdoch’s Roles
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-10-18T20:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/21st-century-fox-calls-off-vote-over-dual-class-share-structure.html
21st Century Fox Inc. (FOXA)  investors
rejected a call for an independent chairman, the third straight
year activists have lost a bid to curb the influence of
billionaire Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch .  The company announced the results at the annual meeting
today in  Los Angeles , without providing the tally. Murdoch, 82,
and his family hold about 40 percent of the  voting rights . The
12 nominees to the board were all elected over some opposition.  Murdoch, who kept both roles after splitting New York-based
Fox from his  News Corp. (NWSA)  publishing empire in June, used his
votes to counter support for the independent chairman proposal
from proxy advisers Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. and
Glass, Lewis & Co. Excluding Murdoch’s shares,  News Corp .
investors last year voted almost 2-1 to split the jobs.  “Our management team will continue to build on our
operational and financial momentum,” Murdoch said on the stage.  Christian Brothers Investment Services, which proposed the
split, and was joined by British Columbia Investment Management
Corp., said Fox’s board lacks independence with Murdoch holding
both posts. They cited the phone-hacking scandal that led to the
closing of the News of the World newspaper.  “The level of family control -- Mr. Murdoch owns 40
percent of voting shares -- and the dual-class share structure
which denies voting rights to Class A shareholders, were
engineered to keep power in the hands of Mr. Murdoch,” said
 Julie Tanner , a representative of Christian Brothers. “While it
is virtually impossible for a shareholder resolution to ‘pass,’
a high vote result should send a clear signal to the board that
change is needed.”  Last year before the split, News Corp. filed official
voting results shortly after the meeting.  ‘Poison Pill’  Christian Brothers also cited the June adoption of a
“poison pill” takeover defense by the board without
shareholder approval. The board’s vote led ISS to recommend that
investors oppose the election of some directors, including
Murdoch and his sons Lachlan and James.  With the split, Fox kept most of News Corp.’s TV and film
assets. At News Corp., owner of the Wall Street Journal and
other newspapers, Murdoch holds only the chairman title.  Fox, owner of the namesake broadcast network, fell 0.2
percent to $34.26 at the close in  New York . The shares have
outperformed those of film-and-TV competitors, gaining 52
percent this year, compared with 35 percent for  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) 
and more than 44 percent at Time Warner Inc. Disney investors in
March rejected a similar call to split Chairman and CEO  Robert
Iger ’s duties.  Stock Buyback  The company has repurchased $7.73 billion of its shares
under the most recent buyback authorization, according to an
Oct. 16 regulatory filing.  Fox also called off voting on an investor proposal to end
the company’s dual-class capital structure, under which only
class B shares have voting rights, after the backers failed to
appear at the meeting.  The company has about 1.51 billion Class A  shares 
outstanding and about 800 million of voting Class B shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Murdoch family
holds 314.9 million Class B shares, according to filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  