-- China Summons Japan’s Ambassador to Protest Visits to War Shrine
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-10-18T08:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/abe-offering-at-yasukuni-war-shrine-same-as-visiting-china-says.html
The Chinese government summoned
 Japan ’s ambassador to lodge a protest after a cabinet minister
visited the Yasukuni Shrine, which it said symbolizes Japanese
militarism.  Internal affairs minister Yoshitaka Shindo paid his
respects at the shrine in Tokyo today to mark its autumn
festival and about 160 lawmakers visited as a group, Kyodo News
reported. Abe sent a traditional “masakaki” offering,
according to an official in the shrine’s public relations
department who asked not to be named because of policy.  Visits by Japanese leaders to  the shrine , which honors the
country’s war dead including World War II leaders convicted as
Class A war criminals, spark anger in parts of Asia that
suffered under Japanese occupation. Abe has not visited Yasukuni
publicly since his election win in December, amid a territorial
dispute with  China  that has prevented the two countries from
holding a summit for almost 18 months.  Vice Foreign Minister Liu Zhenmin summoned Japan’s envoy
for a “solemn protest and strong condemnation” of the visits,
Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunyingsaid at a briefing in
Beijing today.  ‘Militarism Symbol’  “The Yasukuni shrine is a Japanese militarism symbol,”
Hua said. Japanese visits to the shrine are “a blatant attempt
to whitewash the Japanese military’s history of aggression,”
she added. “It is a major matter of principle that is bearing
on the political foundation of China-Japan relations.”  A commentary in the People’s Daily, the official newspaper
of China’s Communist Party, said Abe’s offering was no different
from visiting in person. The paper said his move had hurt the
feelings of Asian nations and challenged the current
international order by harking back to the spirit of
nationalism. The author’s name, Zhong Sheng, is a pseudonym
meaning “Voice of China”, the paper said.  “Our country caused great damage and suffering to people
in many countries in the past, particularly in  Asia ,” Abe said
today in parliament. “In that respect, the Abe cabinet has
inherited and shares the understanding of previous cabinets,”
he said. “After the war, Japan, based on serious reflection,
built a nation that respects freedom, democracy and basic human
rights and has walked a path of peace for the past 68 years.”  Fraught Ties  Japan’s relations with China have been acrimonious since it
bought three of five East China Sea islands last September that
are also claimed by China. Since then, Japanese and Chinese
patrol ships and planes have tailed one another through the area
and trade, investment and tourism ties between Asia’s two
largest economies have suffered. Japan is also embroiled in a
separate territorial dispute with  South Korea .  “These are important bilateral relationships for Japan,”
Deputy Chief Cabinet Secretary Katsunobu Kato told reporters.
“We want to prevent this kind of problem from affecting the
whole relationship,” he added.  Natsuo Yamaguchi, leader of the ruling coalition’s New
Komeito Party, said in parliament today that it is necessary to
explain the Abe cabinet’s position carefully “at every possible
opportunity.”  Abe has repeatedly said Japan’s door is open to talks.
While he shook hands and briefly chatted with President Xi Jinping at the G-20 summit in St Petersburg in September, there
has been no formal meeting at cabinet level since he took
office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  