-- Abengoa Plans to Delist Shares in Europe After ADRs Debut
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-10-18T21:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/abengoa-plans-to-delist-shares-in-europe-after-adrs-debut.html
Abengoa SA (ABG) , the Spanish renewable-energy developer that offered American depositary receipts
yesterday, will eventually delist its shares from its home
exchange to avoid “structural problems” in Europe’s capital
markets, said Chief Executive Officer Manuel Sanchez Ortega.  The company’s ADRs will trade under the symbol ABGB and are
each worth five Class B shares. The company will use the
proceeds to pay down debt, Ortega said in an interview today at
the Nasdaq Stock Market in New York, where Seville, Spain-based
Abengoa is now trading.  The U.S. has become Abengoa’s biggest market, and trading
there will make the company more visible to investors and
analysts, Ortega said. He expects to exit the Madrid Stock
Exchange “in the next couple of years.”  “We no longer have a home country,” he said. “If you
said where the home country is, where you have the most
business, that country would be the U.S.”  Abengoa’s ADRs gained 3.3 percent to $12.75 at the close in
New York.  Abengoa gets about 18 percent of its revenue in Spain and
30 percent in the U.S., according to an August earnings
 presentation .  “In Spain, or Europe in general, there is a structural
problem with capital markets,” because there are so many
national exchanges, he said. “That’s pretty inefficient.”  Abengoa is the world’s largest developer of solar-thermal
power plants, and expects to see demand increase for the
technology because it includes power-storage capabilities. Its
$2 billion Solana plant went into operation in  Arizona  this
month.  Solar thermal power plants use mirrors to focus sunlight to
heat steam and drive turbines to generate electricity. The 280-megawatt Solana project also stores some heat to produce
electricity after the sun goes down.  “That means renewables can now be baseload energy,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  