-- Accuracy of CPI in Doubt Because of Shutdown, Cleveland Fed Says
-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s
-- 2013-10-18T15:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/accuracy-of-cpi-in-doubt-because-of-shutdown-cleveland-fed-says.html
The accuracy of U.S. inflation data
will be compromised for as long as seven months because of the
16-day partial federal shutdown, according to a report by the
Federal Reserve Bank of  Cleveland .  The Labor Department’s consumer-price data for October,
currently scheduled to be released on Nov. 15, “will be subject
to significant error,” Randal Verbrugge, a senior economist,
and Sara Millington, an analyst, wrote in an Oct. 17  report  on
the Cleveland Fed’s website. The agencies’ inability to collect
data in the first half of this month will “affect the accuracy
of these statistics for months to come,” they said.  The Bureau of Labor statistics has hundreds of part-time
staff in the field collecting information on the cost of about
83,300 items on a daily basis, everything from food to
automobiles. Those employees weren’t able to go out in the first
half of the month because of the lapse in government
appropriations, which means the October report will only reflect
information from Oct. 17 onward.  “The fact that many prices will not be collected in
October will have repercussions later on,” Verbrugge and
Millington wrote. “In fact, these repercussions do not end
until May 2014.”  That’s because the prices of some items are not collected
monthly, they said. The costs of some goods are collected every
other month and rents are tabulated only every six months. That
means any error introduced in the rental portion of the
statistics won’t be reversed until the figures for March 2014
are released the following month, according to Verbrugge and
Millington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  