-- Air France Demands Alitalia Overhaul Before Combination
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-10-18T09:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/air-france-demands-alitalia-overhaul-before-considering-merger.html
Air France-KLM Group Chief Executive
Officer Alexandre de Juniac said  Alitalia  SpA must commit to a
deeper overhaul before the French carrier considers deeper ties
that would help create a pan-European airline.  “Air France, KLM and Alitalia would make a great European
carrier,” de Juniac said in an interview last night on French
television broadcaster LCI. “But at this point, it’s not
guaranteed, because to do what we’ve asked, there has to be an
industrial restructuring of Alitalia that goes a lot further
than what we’ve seen so far.”  Air France, which already owns 25 percent of Alitalia and
is a partner in the Skyteam alliance, isn’t in a position to
keep funding Alitalia without a restructuring plan at the
Italian carrier, the CEO said. The French airline has been
reluctant to invest as it undertakes its own restructuring and
has seen the value of its holding in Alitalia plunge.  Air France is considering whether to contribute to a
capital increase at Alitalia, which was agreed by the Italian
airline’s board last week. Time is running out for Alitalia, as
its sales slump deepened over the last month as concerns over
the airline’s future deterred travelers from booking.  Alitalia’s last major overhaul occurred in 2009 after the
company declared bankruptcy and got a fresh start by eliminating
its debt and merging its assets with those of another Italian
carrier, Air One SpA.  “In our view,  Air France-KLM (AF)  should only take over
Alitalia if the airline is allowed to enter bankruptcy,” Donal O’Neill, an analyst at  Goodbody Stockbrokers  in Dublin, wrote in
a note to investors today. “The airline could be stripped to
the bone with the brand, the long-haul network and a few short-haul trunk routes kept intact and integrated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  