-- Taiwan Five-Year Bonds Advance in Week on Fed Stimulus Optimism
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2013-10-18T02:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/taiwan-five-year-bonds-advance-in-week-on-fed-stimulus-optimism.html
Taiwan’s five-year bonds headed for
the best week in a month on speculation the U.S. will maintain
stimulus that’s buoyed  emerging markets  after a budget impasse
weighed on the world’s largest economy.  U.S. lawmakers reached an agreement this week to end a 16-day government shutdown and avoid the nation’s first default.
The deal will suspend the debt limit through Feb. 7. Ten-year
Treasury yields dropped to a two-month low after Federal  Reserve
Bank  of Chicago President  Charles Evans  said the central bank
shouldn’t begin reducing its $85 billion of monthly asset
purchases.  “Taiwan bonds have been following the direction of  U.S.
Treasuries ,” said Tobby Lin, a fixed-income trader at Yuanta
Securities Co. in Taipei. “Since the debt limit has been pushed
back to February, investors are guessing the Fed may delay
cutting its stimulus until that is resolved.”  The yield on the most-traded 1.25 percent government notes
due October 2018 fell six basis points from a week ago and one
basis point today to 1.1184 percent as of 9:53 a.m. in Taipei,
according to Gretai Securities Market. That’s the biggest drop
for the rate on similar-maturity sovereign  debt  since the five-day period ended Sept. 20.  Global funds bought $587 million more Taiwanese equities
than they sold this week through yesterday, taking net purchases
for the year to $7.4 billion, exchange data show.  China ,
Taiwan’s largest export market, reported today that gross
domestic  product  grew 7.8 percent in the third quarter from a
year earlier, compared with a 7.5 percent increase in the
previous period.  Currency Market  Taiwan’s dollar strengthened 0.3 percent this week and 0.2
percent today to NT$29.397 against the greenback, prices from
Taipei Forex Inc. show. The currency weakened 0.2 percent in the
last 19 minutes of trading yesterday amid suspected intervention
by the central bank. The authority has sold the local dollar in
the run-up to the close on most days since March 2012, according
to traders who asked not to be identified.  One-month non-deliverable forwards fell 0.2 percent this
week to NT$29.316 per  U.S. dollar , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The contracts were little changed today.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the  exchange rate  used to price options, dropped 40 basis
points, or 0.4 percentage point, this week and seven basis
points today to 3.33 percent.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  was steady this week
and today at 0.388 percent, a weighted average compiled by the
Taiwan Interbank Money Center showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justina Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  