-- Malaysia Airports Sees Booming Budget Travel to Boost Growth
-- B y   M o x y   Y i n g   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-10-18T09:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/malaysia-airports-sees-booming-budget-travel-to-boost-growth.html
Malaysia Airports Holdings Bhd. (MAHB)  said
low-cost carriers are luring more flyers and driving up the
number of passengers at its Kuala Lumpur hub as it prepares to
expand capacity by adding a new terminal.  The company expects 46 million passengers at the airport
this year, up from 40 million in 2012, Malaysia Airports Chief
Financial Officer Faizal Mansor said in an interview today. A
new budget-airlines terminal will boost annual capacity to 70
million passengers when it’s ready next year, he said.  “Growth has mainly come from the low-cost carrier
segment,” Faizal said in a Bloomberg Television interview with
Zeb Eckert in  Hong Kong . “It’s booming. We have no choice but
to cater for this new growth that we are seeing.”  Malaysia Airports rose  2.2 percent  to a record 8.32 ringgit
as of the closes in  Kuala Lumpur . The  benchmark  FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index gained 0.1 percent.  Construction of the new budget terminal is set for
completion in May 2014 with a cost of about 4 billion ringgit
($1.3 billion) after earlier delays, Faizal said. The cost of
the expansion has overshot the company’s initial estimate of 3.1
billion ringgit, Faizal said in an interview in August.  Completion of the terminal is lagging behind the March 2012
deadline after work began in 2010 as plans became more
ambitious, Aireen Omar, chief executive officer of  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) ,
the nation’s biggest low-cost carrier, said in June.  “The terminal is 95-percent completed now,” Faizal said.
Malaysia Airports is also seeking for opportunities to invest in
 China , he said.  “I think the privatization process in China happens very
fast and we are very excited about what’s happening,” Faizal
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moxy Ying in Hong Kong at 
 yying13@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  