-- Malaysia Bonds Set for Best Week Since January on Fed Delay Bets
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-10-18T02:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/malaysia-bonds-set-for-best-week-since-january-on-fed-delay-bets.html
Malaysia’s three-year government
bonds are having the best week since January as speculation the
U.S. will delay paring stimulus beyond 2013 fueled demand for
emerging-market assets. The ringgit gained for a third week.  The  Federal Reserve  shouldn’t begin reducing debt purchases
as economic data stopped during the shutdown, Chicago Fed
President  Charles Evans  said yesterday. Congress passed an
accord that funds the government through Jan. 15 and suspends
the debt limit through Feb. 7. The risk premium on Malaysian
bonds will probably fall if Prime Minister Najib Razak takes
fiscal consolidation measures in the Oct. 25 budget, Barclays
Plc strategists including Rohit Arora wrote in a note yesterday.  “The probability that tapering will be pushed out to March
of next year has increased,” said  Igor Arsenin , a Barclays
strategist in Singapore. “There were some inflows but they
started off at the short end of the yield curve just because
nobody wants to go out the curve in the current environment.”  The yield on the 3.172 percent notes due July 2016 fell 14
basis points this week and one basis point today to 3.16 percent
as of 9:53 a.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the biggest five-day drop since the notes were
sold in January and the lowest level in four months.  The cost to insure Malaysian government debt using credit
default swaps was at an almost four-week low of 108.5, CMA
prices show. That’s down from 131.5 at the end of last month.  Dollar Losses  U.S. policy makers should maintain low  interest rates  to
reduce unemployment even at the risk of temporarily pushing
inflation above the Fed’s 2 percent goal,  Narayana Kocherlakota ,
president of the Minneapolis Fed, said in a speech yesterday.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 of the most-traded global currencies, declined 0.8
percent during the five-day period, heading for its worst week
since Sept. 20. It gained 0.1 percent today.  “In the wake of this week’s ‘fiscal fudge’ by the U.S.
Congress, Fed policy direction will become even more important”
for the foreign-exchange market, Credit Agricole SA strategists
including New York-based  David Keeble  wrote in a report today.
Tapering will likely be pushed out to January from December,
undermining the dollar, they wrote.  The ringgit advanced 0.8 percent this week to 3.1525 per
dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It reached
3.1413 today, the strongest level since June 18.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, declined 156 basis
points, or 1.56 percentage points, to 8.78 percent this week and
climbed two basis points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 