-- Alimera, PSivida Drop After Drug Fails to Win Approval
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-10-18T20:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/alimera-psivida-drop-after-drug-fails-to-win-approval.html
Alimera Sciences Inc. (ALIM)  and  PSivida
Corp. (PSDV)  dropped after the drugmakers failed to win U.S. approval
for a way to treat a leading cause of vision loss in people with
diabetes.  Alimera fell 8.5 percent to $2.48 at the close in New York,
while PSivida plunged 24 percent to $2.87. The Food and Drug
Administration said the sustained-release eye implant for
chronic diabetic macular edema would need a new trial plus more
follow-up data, according to company statements today.  The FDA previously had rejected Iluvien twice, most
recently in 2011. While the drug is available in some European
countries, the U.S. market offers the greatest sales potential.
The FDA has scheduled a meeting Jan. 27 of agency advisers to
help the companies identify a patient population for which the
product’s benefits might outweigh the risks.  The meeting is “a theoretical positive” that “does leave
the door open for something good,” Simos Simeonidis, an analyst
with Cowen & Co., said today in a note to investors.  Even so, Alimera doesn’t have the capital for a new trial,
Simeonidis said. He said he hadn’t expect Iluvien to gain
approval in the U.S. based on the FDA’s insistence of new trials
two years ago.  Path Forward  “We will continue to work with the FDA, through the
advisory committee, to determine whether there is a path
forward,” Dan Myers, chief executive officer of Alpharetta,
Georgia-based Alimera, said in a statement.  The FDA also referred to deficiencies at the manufacturing
plant in its letter denying Iluvien, which Alimera doesn’t
expect to affect its European supply. Peak sales in the European
Union are estimated to reach $300 million in 2021, Simeonidis
said in his note.  When the FDA had last rejected the drug, in November 2011,
it asked for two additional clinical trials to prove the safety
and effectiveness of the medicine.  Iluvien is Alimera’s lead product candidate in the U.S. and
would compete with Basel,  Switzerland-based Roche Holding AG ’s
Lucentis injection, which was cleared in August 2012 as the
first drug to treat diabetic macular edema.  Regeneron
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN)  is in the final testing stages on its
injectable medicine Eylea for the condition.  PSivida licensed its Durasert drug-delivery system to be
used for Iluvien. PSivida, based in Watertown,  Massachusetts ,
would receive a $25 million milestone payment if the drug is
approved.  Share History  PSivida’s shares  plunged  the most since the last time the
FDA rejected the drug Nov. 11, 2011. PSivida has more than
doubled this year, while Alimera has gained 58 percent.  Diabetic macular edema is a result of damaged blood vessels
that can cause fluid to leak into the macula, the part of the
eye where sharp, straight-ahead vision occurs, according to the
National Eye Institute.  Alimera estimates about  1 million  people in the U.S. have
diabetic macular edema and 300,000 new cases develop each year.
People with diabetes have a 10 percent chance of developing the
condition, the company said.  The most common side effects of Alimera’s treatment are
cataract development and increased ocular pressure.  Iluvien is approved in the U.K. and  Germany  and will be
available in  France  early next year. The drug is also approved
in Austria, Portugal and Spain, Alimera said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  