-- Anglo to Miss Iron-Ore Forecast as Quarterly Output Slips
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-10-18T15:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/anglo-american-s-copper-output-increases-as-iron-ore-declines.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) , a mining company
with operations from  Australia  to  Chile , will miss its forecast
for iron-ore shipments this year after third-quarter production
of the steelmaking material fell 24 percent.  “Export sales volumes for 2013 are anticipated to be lower
than the previously guided 40 million metric tons and are
dependent on production levels,” the London-based company said
today in a statement. Iron-ore output dropped to 9.47 million
tons in the past quarter from 12.5 million tons a year earlier.  Anglo’s Kumba Iron Ore unit has struggled with depletion at
the Sishen mine, its biggest operation, which also underwent
halts for safety checks in August. With iron ore accounting for
the largest share of revenue last year, Anglo will seek to
restore growth at the division to help reverse a drop in profit.  “At the very least we have to assume that iron-ore
production is going to be down next year by about 6 to 8 million
tons,” Aneek Haq, an analyst at Exane Ltd., said by telephone
from  London . “If that is the case, your earnings forecast will
need to be cut as well.”  Anglo may report underlying earnings of $2.07 billion this
year, according to the average  estimate  of 20 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Profit by that measure fell 54 percent to $2.84
billion in 2012 following a decline in commodity prices and an
increase in operating costs.  Digging Deeper  Kumba Iron Ore (KIO) , 70 percent-owned by Anglo, said this week
it will need additional state permission to access a third of
Sishen’s reserves as it digs further into the ore body to
counter depletion. Kumba will present a plan to address these
“pit constraints” and a longer-term operational strategy for
Sishen by year-end, Anglo said today.  Kumba fell 7.6 percent to 438.06 rand by the close in
Johannesburg trading, the biggest decline in four months. Anglo,
which also mines coal, platinum, diamonds and copper, fell 1.4
percent to 1,532 pence in London.  Copper production jumped 32 percent in the third quarter to
207,300 tons, today’s statement shows. Output of the metal at
Anglo’s Los Bronces mine in Chile rose 22 percent to 106,400
tons, while volumes from its Collahuasi venture with  Glencore
Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  more than doubled to 63,600 tons as the mine’s ramp-up continued.  Production at  De Beers , the diamond producer 85 percent-owned by Anglo, increased 21 percent in the period to 7.7
million carats. Together with the copper division, De Beers’
volumes helped counter the lower output from Kumba, said Ben Davis, an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in London.  Cancel Out  “I’d say it does cancel it out,” Davis said by phone.
“If they can get past these constraints at Kumba by the end of
the year then it is not too bad. Copper will be up at these
higher rates for the next couple of years.”  Anglo is targeting a $1.3 billion increase in annual  cash
flow  as well as asset sales following a review of operations,
Chief Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani  said in July. The company,
which has identified 15 assets for possible divestment, withdrew
last month from the Pebble copper project in  Alaska .  Platinum-equivalent refined production at  Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  was little changed in the third quarter at 623,000
ounces. Production of export metallurgical coal, used in
steelmaking, increased 9 percent to 4.9 million tons. Output of
export thermal coal from  South Africa  declined 1 percent, while
Colombian production advanced 13 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  