-- Angola’s Camutue Diamond Mine Drills to Expand Kimberlite Pit
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-10-18T05:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/angola-s-camutue-diamond-mine-drills-to-expand-kimberlite-pit.html
Tecmad Mining Services SARL is
drilling at its Camutue diamond mine in the northeast of  Angola ,
the world’s fourth-largest diamond producer, to test the
feasibility of expansion, Site Director Colyn Purdon said.  The kimberlite mine at Lucapa in Lunda Norte province, 825
kilometers (513 miles) east of Luanda, the capital, produces
about 12,000 carats a month from more than 50,000 cubic meters
of ore, Purdon said in an interview at the mine Oct. 13. The 13-hectare (32-acre) open pit is 45 meters (148 feet) deep with
initial plans to extend to 115 meters while core samples are
being taken to a depth of 150 meters to determine future
viability, Purdon said.  “We’re drilling down to plan where to go,” Purdon said.  Angola’s production of diamonds, its biggest mineral
export, may rise to about 9 million carats this year and 12.8
million carats in 2014 from 8.3 million carats valued at $1.16
billion in 2012 as the southwest African country starts four new
mines and resumes work at three others, Geology and Mines
Minister Francisco Queiroz said in August. The global market in
polished diamonds may reach $31 billion by 2016,  De Beers , the
gem-producing arm of  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , forecast last year.  Camutue began in 2007 on a 28-hectare site near the
Luachimo River that’s had diamond prospecting and mining for the
past several decades, Purdon said. Efficiencies implemented over
the past two years have more than doubled output, he said.  Endiama Stake  State-run exploration and production company Endiama EP
owns 25 percent of the mine, while Sociedade Mineira do Lucapa
Lda has 10 percent, company spokesman Antonio Freitas said in an
e-mailed response to questions. CAD owns 60 percent while
Consorcio Camutue has 5 percent, he said.  Namakwa Diamonds Ltd. sold its interest in the mine a year
ago, Lynette van der Merwe, a spokeswoman at the company, said
by phone from Johannesburg, declining to give more information.  Lunda Norte province, on the border with the  Democratic
Republic  of Congo, has 16 of the 108 concessions across the
country seeking investors, according to Endiama’s website. The
province has more alluvial or river-based diamond mining than
kimberlites, a relatively rare geological feature, that is
essentially an ancient eroded volcano, Purdon said. There are
four alluvial projects around Lucapa including Calonda and the
Luo kimberlite pipe further south, provincial information shows.  Alluvial Mining  Alluvial mining attracts illegal miners from Congo and can
be hazardous to the environment because it requires diverting
rivers and digging up the beds. In recent years Angola has
deported thousands of miners, known in Portuguese as
garimpeiros. Men crowded the streets of Lucapa in front of
diamond-buying stores and mining company offices. A government-run press tour didn’t allow reporters to speak to them.  The province is modernizing roads to the mines with
contracts awarded to  Brazil ’s Odebrecht SA and  Portugal ’s Mota-Engil SGPS SA as the country rebuilds after a 27-year civil war
that ended in 2002. A new 1,150-kilometer road linking Dundo,
the provincial capital, and Luanda shaves 200 kilometers off an
existing, mostly dirt, route and cuts travel time to nine hours
from 20, according to Antonio Mussumari, director of the
provincial Department of Communication.  The region’s diamond wealth is reflected in a $4.7 billion
project to construct 20,000 apartments on the outskirts of
Dundo. It will begin filling the first 5,000 flats with
occupants in the next few months, Antonio Martins, project
director of Tpf Planege-Consultores de Engenharia e Gestao SA, a
Lisbon-based company, said in an interview at the site.  The housing built by PanChina Construction Group Co.
resembles similar multicolored apartment block projects erected
in six areas around Luanda, including Kilamba Kiaxi, and in the
northern province of Cabinda, Martins said. The government has
increased construction after falling short of a goal set in 2008
to build 1 million homes by 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  