-- Argentina Settles $677 Million Arbitration Cases With Bonds
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2013-10-18T18:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/argentina-settles-677-million-of-arbitration-cases-paying-bonds.html
Argentina  agreed to compensate five
companies that won rulings over investment disputes as the
nation looks for the World Bank to approve $3 billion in loans,
sparking the biggest bond rally in  emerging markets .  The companies agreed to accept payment in dollar bonds and
to reduce the principal amount of their awards by 25 percent,
the  Economy Ministry  said today in a  statement . The country will
hand over local law bonds due 2015 and 2017 with a face value of
$506 million for the $677 million of claims, the ministry said.
The bonds traded in secondary markets at prices of 95.57 cents
and 87.72 cents on the dollar respectively at 2:51 p.m. in
Buenos Aires, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Argentina has been sued more than any other country in the
World Bank’s arbitration court by investors, utilities and
energy companies pursuing reimbursement for currency
devaluations, nationalizations and rate freezes after the
nation’s $95 billion default in 2001. To enforce existing
arbitration judgments, the U.S., the  World Bank ’s largest
shareholder, suspended in March 2012 Argentina’s participation
in a trade program that allows certain goods from  developing
countries  to be imported duty-free.  “The agreements with the companies that had obtained firm
rulings, which allow for the normalization of $677 million of
debt, were obtained in extremely favorable conditions for the
country,” the ministry said. “The Republic won’t be using cash
or international reserves” for the payment.  The companies  involved are Blue Ridge Investments LLC,
which owned rights to CMS Gas Transmission Company claims, CC-WB
Holdings LLC, which owned rights to Continental Casualty Company
claims, Vivendi Universal Sociedad Anonima, Cia. de Aguas del
Aconquija Sociedad Anonima and Azurix Corp. Argentina also
agreed to compensate NH-UN Holdings LLC, which owned claims from
 National Grid Plc. (NG/)   Bond Rally  In addition, the companies agreed to invest $68 million in
a government bond that matures in 2016 and carries a 4 percent
annual interest rate, the Economy Ministry said. Proceeds from
the so-called BAADE bond will be used to finance energy projects
in Argentina.  Argentina is settling the outstanding claims in part to tap
World Bank loans, Buenos Aires-based newspaper Ambito said Oct.
10. The World Bank is considering lending $3 billion to be
disbursed through 2016, Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzino said
Oct. 10.  The World Bank hasn’t mentioned the size of the loan and
approval is subject to a vote, Yanina Budkin, a press official
for the lender in Argentina, wrote in an e-mailed response to
questions on Oct. 16.  Argentine bonds have rallied since Oct. 10 on speculation
the nation will obtain fresh funds from the World Bank and
settle some of the outstanding arbitration claims in a sign the
government is normalizing relations with international financial
institutions.  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine bonds
instead of U.S. Treasuries plunged 49 basis points, or 0.49
percentage point, to 855 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified index. The spread was at
971 basis points on Oct. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in  Buenos Aires  at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  