-- Ariad Declines After Stopping Iclusig Study on Clot Risk
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-10-18T20:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/ariad-stops-iclusig-study-because-of-blood-clot-safety-reports.html
Ariad Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARIA)  is
working on a new financial plan after increased risks of blood
clots stopped a study aimed at expanding use of its only
approved drug. The shares sank.  The study, called Epic, was testing Ariad’s Iclusig against
 Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Gleevec in newly diagnosed chronic myeloid
leukemia. Iclusig is still on the market and the company is
working with regulators on changing the drug’s labeling to
reflect the safety findings, Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Ariad said today in a statement.  “It’s the end of Ariad as we know it,” Mike King, an
analyst with JMP Securities, said in a telephone interview
today. The risks will relegate Iclusig to “break glass in case
of emergency” use only, said King, who predicted the company
may fire workers and halt plans to expand its headquarters.  Ariad will work in the next few weeks to put a new
financial and operating plan in place, Chief Executive Officer
Harvey Berger told analysts and investors on a conference call.
It’s premature to discuss the potential for a partnership or
sale of the company, he said in response to a question.  “We are working as a team on a substantially revised
financial plan that will extend out our cash runway
substantially beyond where we are today,” Berger said. “We’re
taking a fresh look at every component of our budget, every
near- and long-term expenditure,” he said, citing clinical
trials, facilities and people.  Shares Plunge  Ariad plunged 41 percent to $2.67 at the close in New York,
extending a record drop that started when the study enrollment
was first halted earlier this month. The  shares  have lost 86
percent this year.  Ariad will focus on opportunities for Iclusig as well as
the experimental drug AP26113 in its pipeline, Berger said. The
company had $351.9 million in cash, equivalents and marketable
securities as of June 30, according to its second-quarter
financial statement. Iclusig drew $13.9 million in second-quarter sales.  The company said Oct. 9 that the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration had placed a hold on enrollment of all trials of
Iclusig because of the increased risks of blood clots. The drug
was approved last year for two rare blood cancers based on an
accelerated process that relied on a single trial showing it
helped patients. Companies that gain accelerated approval must
conduct additional study to prove the medicine is effective;
further results showed the increased safety risks.  Refining Use  “It’s important to refine the use of the drug as we go,”
Timothy Clackson, Ariad’s chief scientific officer, said in a
telephone interview. “We believe there are many settings for
Iclusig where the drug offers a unique and lifesaving benefit
for patients.”  Ariad will make decisions about plans to refocus the
company and will discuss those on its third-quarter conference
call in November, Clackson said.  Cory Kasimov, an analyst with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
downgraded his rating of Ariad stock today to “neutral.”  “After last week’s safety update/implosion, and now this,
we can’t in good faith continue to tell people to buy this
name,” Kasimov wrote in a research note. We “are stepping to
the sidelines until we can get more clarity on the future of
this drug.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  