-- Tarullo Urges Clear Wind-Down Plans So Banks Aren’t Shunned
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-10-18T20:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/tarullo-urges-clear-wind-down-plan-so-creditors-don-t-shun-banks.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said creditors could penalize the largest banks with
higher  interest rates  or desert them entirely if the government
doesn’t clarify plans for winding down firms near collapse.  “Unless creditors and counterparties have well-grounded
expectations as to how they will be treated in a resolution
setting, they may need to charge a premium to compensate for the
additional uncertainty,” Tarullo said today at a Washington
conference on how to handle failing banks. “In periods of
increasing stress in the financial system, they may be unwilling
to deal with certain firms altogether.”  Tarullo spoke at the Fed-sponsored conference as regulators
weigh how to avert a repeat of the taxpayer-backed bailouts
during the 2008 credit crisis. The Dodd-Frank Act requires large
lenders to create living wills to describe how they could be
wound down in a bankruptcy. If that doesn’t work, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. can step in, liquidate the bank and
force losses on shareholders and creditors.  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  told the conference
that the Dodd-Frank Act points to unassisted bankruptcy as the
“first and most preferable option.”  Still, the memory of economic damage that followed Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy in September 2008 could
persuade regulators to choose government-run resolution for the
largest banks.  Manage Resolution  Tarullo said that if creditors and counterparties don’t
believe the FDIC can successfully manage a resolution, they may
misprice risk by assuming a bailout will result.  “If investors and other market actors think the prospects
for orderly resolution seem low, they may assume the firm will
be rescued by the government, and any moral hazard present in
these markets will continue,” Tarullo said in prepared remarks.  By the end of the year, FDIC Chairman  Martin Gruenberg  said
his agency will seek public comment on a description of its
step-by-step approach for seizing a failing firm and
capitalizing a bridge company.  The FDIC plan will outline how shareholders and creditors
will shoulder losses while the firm’s healthy subsidiaries will
continue operating without disruption -- an approach which
agency officials have said could work now, even if it hasn’t yet
been tested.  One critical component, regulators say, is having enough
long-term unsecured debt to convert into equity to help absorb
losses and keep a distressed bank running until the firm could
be sold or dismantled, known as a “bail-in.”  Long-Term Debt  The Fed and the FDIC will issue a proposal seeking a floor
on long-term debt “in the next few months,” Tarullo said.  “This requirement will have the effect of preventing
erosion of the current long-term debt holdings of the largest,
most complex U.S. firms, which, by historical standards, are
currently at fairly high levels,” Tarullo said.  Without a rule, long-term debt levels will probably decline
as longer-term rates rise, he said. Regulators have already
“seen some evidence of the beginnings of such declines.”  Tarullo, 60, is the Fed governor in charge of bank
supervision and regulation and is overseeing the central bank’s
implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Fed is the bank
holding company regulator and has authority over rules regarding
bank capital.  Irish Impact  Bail-ins have drawn favor in the U.S. and  Europe  after
taxpayers were forced to bear the risk of rescuing firms such as
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  while senior bondholders weren’t asked to take losses.
Bail-ins have been used in Cyprus, Denmark and Ireland.  Irish banks, which received at least a gross 64 billion-euro ($88 billion) taxpayer bailout over the past four years,
inflicted about 15 billion euros of losses on subordinated
bondholders, even as senior creditors and depositors were made
whole.  The idea of bail-ins has ruffled fixed-income investors.
They’re concerned that prices of existing bonds will fall and
funding costs will rise if banks are forced to issue more debt,
with bondholders used as “the new honeypot” to protect
taxpayers, according to a December report by  UBS AG (UBSN)  analysts led
by Robert Smalley.  Wells Fargo  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S. home lender, has
expressed doubt about bail-ins.  “A good share of our funding comes from deposits,” Chief
Executive Officer  John Stumpf  said May 30 during an investor
conference, adding that the bank doesn’t have a lot of debt at
the holding company. “I’m hopeful that companies that have a
lower risk profile, that have more of their balance sheet funded
by deposits, will not be punished by the use of a blunt
instrument.”  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the bank that took the most U.S. aid during
the credit crisis, said it’s better-prepared than some rivals to
withstand the impact of new anti-bailout rules that could force
lenders to sell more debt.  Citigroup’s disclosures have shown the bank already has
issued more long-term debt than some of its largest rivals,
Treasurer Eric Aboaf said during an April 22 investor
presentation. That leaves the New York-based bank in a better
position as regulators decide how much more debt lenders should
add to their buffers as required by Dodd-Frank’s Orderly
Liquidation Authority, or OLA, Aboaf said.  ‘Peer Institutions’  “Based on what we know now, we believe that our  capital
structure  positions us well to adapt to potential OLA
requirements, especially relative to our peer institutions, many
of whom tend to run with less long-term parent-company debt than
we do,” Aboaf said. Citigroup ranks third by assets among U.S.
based lenders.  Tarullo warned that resolution regimes aren’t a panacea
because a failure that avoids a bailout still could be costly to
economic growth. “Even if a firm is not too big to fail, it may
still be of sufficient systemic importance to make its failure a
costly event,” he said.  He emphasized that stronger capital and liquidity
requirements, and measures to limit run risk in short-term
funding markets, are “crucial to a reform agenda.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  