-- Asian Stocks Advance as Chinese Economy Grows Faster
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-10-18T10:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/asia-stock-index-heads-for-weekly-gain-ahead-of-china-gdp.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the regional
benchmark index rising to its highest level since May 21, as
 China  reported growth accelerated, boosting the outlook for the
global economy.  Sands China Ltd. jumped 9.2 percent to a record in Hong
Kong after the Macau casino operator reported profit that beat
analyst estimates.  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) ,  Australia ’s biggest
gold producer, rose 5.3 percent as bullion headed for its best
week since August on expectations the  Federal Reserve  will hold
off cutting stimulus. SBI Holdings Inc. fell 3 percent after the
Japanese brokerage said it plans to sell convertible bonds.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 0.6 percent to 143.51 as
of 7:16 p.m. in  Tokyo , with more than two shares gaining for
each that fell. The gauge completed a weekly increase of 1.9
percent, its second straight week of gains, as investors shifted
their focus from the resolution of the U.S. fiscal showdown to
the timeline for the Fed reducing bond buying.  “Risk appetite is increasing as we’re seeing a modest
synchronized recovery in the global economy,” Khiem Do Kong-based head of multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset Management
Ltd., which oversees about $57 billion, said in a telephone
interview. “ China’s economy  is stabilizing.”  China’s Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.2 percent. The
nation’s economy expanded 7.8 in the third quarter from a year
earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said in Beijing
today. The result matched the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey after a 7.5 percent advance in the second quarter.  Industrial production in China rose 10.2 percent in
September from a year earlier, while retail sales climbed 13.3
percent, separate reports showed.  Regional Indexes  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  increased 0.7 percent to its
highest close since June 2008.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index rose
1.1 percent.  South Korea ’s Kospi index added 0.6 percent and
Taiwan’s Taiex Index gained 0.8 percent.  Japan ’s Topix fell 0.1
percent and  New Zealand ’s NZX 50 Index dropped 0.4 percent.
Singapore’s Straits Times Index advanced 0.2 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has climbed 3.6 percent so far
through yesterday as the  U.S. Congress  voted to end the
government shutdown and raise the debt ceiling. The gauge trades
at 13.8 times estimated earnings, compared with 15.7 for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 14.6 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index.  S&P 500  futures  expiring in December added less than 0.1
percent today. The U.S. equity gauge rose to a record yesterday
as speculation grew that the Federal Reserve will maintain the
pace of stimulus after Congress ended the budget standoff.  President  Barack Obama  signed into law a measure ending the
government shutdown and extending the nation’s borrowing
authority until early next year. BlackRock Inc. and Pacific
Investment Management Co. say the Fed will postpone tapering its
bond purchases as a result of the debt-ceiling debate.  Stimulus Outlook  “We’ve got a short-term solution to the U.S. fiscal
impasse, which will keep people positive,” Mark Lister, head of
private wealth research at Craigs Investment Partners Ltd. in
Wellington, said by telephone. “The Federal Reserve will be
very wary of pulling back stimulus when you’ve got this
political issue still to come in January and February.”  Congress acted just before U.S. borrowing authority was
scheduled to lapse as lawmakers engaged in their fourth round of
fiscal brinkmanship in less than three years. Lawmakers didn’t
resolve any of their long-term divides and will have to return
to the same issues over the next four months.  Gold producers advanced. Newcrest climbed 5.3 percent to
A$10.68 in Sydney.  Zijin Mining Group Co. (2899) , China’s biggest gold
producer, rose 2.8 percent to HK$1.83 in Hong Kong.  Sands, AIA  Sands China, controlled by billionaire casino magnate
 Sheldon Adelson , jumped 9.2 percent to a record close of HK$58.
Third-quarter net income rose 89 percent to $617.9 million from
a year earlier as a new resort drew more gamblers. Adjusted
property earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization increased 62 percent to $785.3 million in the third
quarter, the company said in a stock-exchange statement. That
compares with an average estimate of $732 million from 10
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  AIA Group Ltd., the second-largest Asia-based insurer by
market value, surged 4.4 percent to a record close of HK$40.05.
New business value, measuring projected future profitability of
new policies, increased to a record $379 million from $300
million a year earlier, the Hong Kong-based company said in a
statement today.  Apple Demand  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  suppliers climbed after Morgan Stanley said
demand for iPhone handsets remains strong. LG Display Co., a
producer of panels used in smartphones, rose 2.7 percent to
24,950 won in  Seoul . Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., which
assembles iPhones and iPads, gained 1.8 percent to NT$75.  Apple probably sold 34.5 million iPhones in the third
quarter with demand improving later in the period, Katy Huberty,
an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said in an Oct. 17 report citing
their AlphaWise Smartphone Tracker data. The iPhone 5s is
showing as much as three weeks’ wait time at Apple’s U.S. online
store, Huberty wrote.  Among stocks that fell, SBI Holdings slipped 3 percent to
1,241 yen. The Japanese brokerage said yesterday it plans to
raise 30 billion yen, selling zero coupon convertible bonds due
in 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  