-- Asian Currencies Advance for Third Week on Fed Stimulus Optimism
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-10-18T09:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/asian-currencies-advance-for-third-week-on-fed-stimulus-optimism.html
Asian currencies had a third weekly
gain, led by South Korea’s won, on optimism the  Federal Reserve 
will delay any reduction in stimulus after a budget impasse
threatened the world’s largest economy.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index extended its
advance from Oct. 11 to 0.3 percent after U.S. President  Barack
Obama  signed legislation yesterday that ended a 16-day partial
government shutdown and deferred funding and debt ceiling
deadlines into 2014. The “fiscal shenanigans” undermined the
case for tapering the Fed’s $85 billion in monthly bond buying,
Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said yesterday.  “The removal of the U.S. default risk added to improving
risk sentiment,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a researcher at the Japan
Center for Economic Research in Tokyo. Speculation the Fed
“will not rush to reduce stimulus already gave some underlying
support to emerging-market assets,” he said.  The won strengthened 0.9 percent in the past five days to
1,062.22 per dollar in Seoul, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. Thailand’s baht gained 0.8 percent to 31.05,
Malaysia’s ringgit climbed 0.7 percent to 3.1553, while
Indonesia’s rupiah rose 0.5 percent to 11,310. The  yuan  gained
0.39 percent to 6.0968, its best week in a year.  Global funds bought $1.7 billion more South Korean,
Taiwanese, Thai and Philippine stocks than they sold this week
through yesterday, exchange data show.  ‘Budget Fight’  Standard & Poor’s  said suspending government operations
would shave at least 0.6 percent from fourth-quarter U.S. gross
domestic product growth, taking $24 billion out of the economy.
The Fed shouldn’t begin reducing bond purchases because, during
the shutdown, the government halted data used to gauge the
economy’s health, Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans , an
outspoken advocate of greater stimulus, said yesterday.  “The probability that taper will be pushed out to March of
next year has increased,” said  Igor Arsenin , Singapore-based
head of emerging-markets rate strategy for Asia at Barclays Plc.
“The budget fight can resume in December again.”  The won pared gains today, after touching a nine-month high
of 1,060.27 per dollar, as authorities said they may intervene
to limit advances that threaten exports.  South Korea is monitoring foreign-exchange inflows and
currency movements to see whether there are speculative
activities, Finance Ministry Director Kim Seong Wook said by
telephone today. The  Bank of Korea  will take steps to ensure
market stability, including injecting liquidity and changing
rules on capital flows, if needed, it said in a report to
parliament today.  “Authorities are giving a strong signal that they may step
in as the won rises to near 1,060 against the dollar,” said
Jude Noh, the chief currency trader at Suhyup Bank in Seoul.  China Growth  The yuan touched a 20-year high as data showed China’s
economic expansion accelerated in the third quarter. The
People’s Bank of China boosted the currency’s daily fixing by
0.1 percent to 6.1372 per dollar, the strongest since a peg to
the greenback ended in 2005. Gross domestic product rose 7.8
percent in the three months through September, from 7.5 percent
in the previous quarter, official figures showed today.  “China’s economic growth is strong and that translates
into further yuan appreciation pressure,” said  Daniel Chan ,
director at China Silver Global Investment Consultant Ltd. in
 Hong Kong .  The yuan reached 6.0915 per dollar today, China Foreign
Exchange Trade System prices show, the strongest level since the
government unified the official and market exchange rates at the
end of 1993.  Elsewhere in Asia, Taiwan’s dollar advanced 0.15 percent to
NT$29.446 against the U.S. counterpart and the  Philippine peso 
gained 0.2 percent to 43.073. India’s rupee fell 0.3 percent to
61.275 and Vietnam’s dong was little changed at 21,110 compared
with 21,100 last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  