-- Athabasca Oil Shares Plunge on Dover Court Appeal: Calgary Mover
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-10-18T20:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/athabasca-oil-shares-halted-on-dover-appeal-calgary-mover.html
Athabasca Oil Corp. (ATH) , the oil-sands
developer that began publicly trading in 2010, plunged in
Toronto trading following an  Alberta  court’s decision to allow
an aboriginal group to appeal the provincial regulator’s
approval of the company’s Dover oil-sands project.  The shares fell 10 percent to C$6.27 at the close in
Toronto. The stock was halted earlier after declining as much as
21 percent, the biggest ever for the Calgary-based oil producer.  The Alberta Energy Regulator on Aug. 6 approved the Dover
proposal, noting in its 40-page decision that the project won’t
have a direct impact on the Moose Lake area, a traditional
territory of the Fort McKay First Nation. The aboriginal group,
which is surrounded by oil sands operations, had requested a 20-kilometer (12-mile) buffer around the project to protect their
traditional hunting territory and argued that the cumulative
effects of oil-sands development put their environment at risk.  “Fort McKay First Nation has a number of concerns about
the proposed project, particularly relating to the cumulative
effect this project will have on the environment, having regard
to the large number of other similar projects in operation or
planned in the region,” Justice Frans Slatter of the Court of
Appeal of Alberta, said in the decision today.  PetroChina’s Role  The Dover project is expected to create C$5.3 billion ($5.2
billion) annually in economic activity, the company has said.
Athabasca had planned to proceed with the sale of its stake in
the project to  PetroChina Co. (857)  following the regulator’s approval
in August.  “This decision is significantly negative for Athabasca,”
wrote Mark Friesen, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, in a note
to clients. “The fact that the right to challenge the
constitutional argument was granted by the Court of Appeals
significantly increases the risk of regulatory approval delay.”  The Dover project contains reserves of 4.1 billion barrels
at a 50 percent recovery rate, the regulator said in August.
Athabasca expects production at the site to reach 250,000
barrels a day at full capacity.  PetroChina is planning to invest at least $60 billion this
decade in global oil and natural gas assets. Athabasca in
January 2012 sold a 40 percent stake in the MacKay River oil-sands project to a PetroChina division for C$680 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  