-- Aussie Set for Best Week in a Month on U.S. Stimulus, China Bets
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-10-18T00:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/aussie-set-for-best-week-in-a-month-on-u-s-stimulus-china-bets.html
Australia’s dollar was set for its
biggest weekly advance in more than a month amid expectations
the U.S. will delay reductions in monetary stimulus and ahead of
economic growth data from  China .  The Aussie reached a four-month high yesterday as Federal
 Reserve Bank  of Chicago President  Charles Evans  said the central
bank shouldn’t start to slow asset purchases, which have helped
prop up global asset prices. China, Australia’s biggest export
market, is forecast to say today that gross domestic product
growth accelerated in the third quarter. New Zealand’s dollar
snapped a five-day gain as a technical indicator signaled the
currency had risen too rapidly.  “One thing that has been supporting the Aussie is the
yield advantage over the  U.S. dollar ,” said David de Ferranti,
a Sydney-based market analyst at  FXCM Inc. (FXCM)  “We are seeing a
turnaround for the Chinese economy, and that bodes well for the
Australian dollar.”  The Aussie declined 0.1 percent to 96.24 U.S. cents as of
11:27 a.m. in Sydney, trimming its weekly advance to 1.7
percent, the most since the period ended Sept. 6. It touched
96.47 yesterday, the most since June 14. New Zealand’s currency
retreated 0.2 percent to 84.71 U.S. cents, paring its weekly
advance to 1.8 percent.  Evans, a voting member of the  Federal Open Market Committee 
this year, said the central bank should put off reductions in
stimulus because of disruptions in economic data caused by a
U.S. government shutdown that ended just yesterday.  “Only the data can tell us how much progress we’ve made
and they aren’t saying much right now,” he said yesterday in a
speech prepared for delivery in Madison,  Wisconsin . The Fed
should continue the $85 billion of monthly bond buying until
data confirm whether the economy has improved sufficiently, the
regional Fed chief said.  China’s Bureau of Statistics is likely to say today that
GDP expanded 7.8 percent in the July-September period from a
year earlier, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The economy expanded 7.5 percent in
the second quarter.  Yields on Australia’s three-year government note declined
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.05 percent.
They climbed to 3.21 percent on Oct. 16, a level unseen since
April 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  