-- Australian Clean Energy Bank Profitable Before Possible Closing
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-10-18T11:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/australian-clean-energy-bank-profitable-before-possible-closing.html
Clean Energy Finance Corp., the
Australian green development bank earmarked for closing by
newly-elected Prime Minister Tony Abbott, is making a profit and
prodding commercial banks to lend, according to its chief
executive officer.  “We’re operating profitably already, with our contracted
investments expected to earn an average return of around 7
percent,” which is above the bank’s capital cost of about 3
percent, Oliver Yates, CEO of the bank founded less than four
months ago by the previous government, told delegates at an Oct.
14 conference in  London . He declined to comment on Abbott’s plan
to close CEFC, citing public-service rules.  Abbott, elected Sept. 7, has vowed to close the bank and
repeal a law creating a carbon market passed by former Prime
Minister Julia Gillard in 2011. Canceling the legislation will
save the average household A$521 in fiscal 2014-15 and cut costs
for business and manufacturers, Environment Minister Greg Hunt
said Oct. 16. A 30 percent tax on coal and iron ore profits,
which Abbott is also seeking to remove, was forecast to raise
A$4.4 billion in the four years to June 30, 2017, the Treasury
said in August.  The development bank has built a loan portfolio of around
A$536 million ($518 million) and helped projects get debt and
equity of about A$2.2 billion, including from other
institutions, Yates said at the Climate Markets & Investment
Association event. The deals will cut emissions by about 3.9
million metric tons of carbon dioxide annually, he said. They
include wind farms and a  tomato farm  that uses solar energy to
desalinate seawater.  ‘Meaningful Impact’  “We’ve been able to make a meaningful impact offering
finance on a commercial basis,” Yates said. “Though we have
the capacity to provide concessional loans, for the great
majority of cases that hasn’t proved necessary. Our job is not
to make it easy for the banks, but to stretch them and encourage
them to join into transactions with us.”  The bank has demonstrated it can generate carbon reductions
at a net benefit to the taxpayer of A$2.40 a ton of carbon
dioxide, he said.  The first Green Bank Congress was held in the two days
through yesterday in Edinburgh, where 18 financiers agreed to
share best practice, Stephen Moir, spokesman for the U.K. Green
Investment Bank, said today by phone.  The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said Sept. 27
there’s enough space in the atmosphere for about 22 years of
emissions at current levels before runaway climate change
becomes probable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  