-- Baucus Says He’s Confident Obamacare Bugs Will Be Fixed
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-10-18T21:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/baucus-says-he-s-confident-obamacare-bugs-will-be-fixed.html
The “bugs” that have plagued the
rollout of U.S. health-insurance exchanges will be fixed by Dec.
15, said Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus, the lead
author of the 2010 health-care law.  Baucus said earlier this year that he saw a potential
“train wreck” occurring if President  Barack Obama ’s
administration didn’t improve efforts to inform the public about
the law. The federal exchanges, which opened Oct. 1, have
suffered from technical problems in signing up Americans, most
of whom are required to have insurance starting in January 2014.  “I have the utmost confidence that every amount of energy
is being devoted to solving -- getting these patches out to fix
the bugs,” Baucus said on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend. “We’ll find a
way.” For coverage to start Jan. 1, signup by Dec. 15 is
required.  Speaking in an interview later in the program, Sylvia Mathews Burwell, director of the Office of Management and
Budget, echoed Baucus’s remarks, saying the administration is
making “strong progress” on the health-care law.  “The administration has put together a team and is deeply
focused on the issues of, how do we fix those problems?” she
said.  Corporate Rate  Baucus, a Montana Democrat and chairman of the Senate
Finance Committee, said the prospects for his next major
initiative -- significant changes to the U.S. tax code -- were
“quite good.”  He said he hoped to release discussion drafts of tax-code
revisions by the end of the year.  Baucus, 71, said he’d like to see the top corporate tax
rate lowered to the “high 20s,” down from 35 percent
currently, though higher than the 25 percent target set by his
House Republican counterpart, Dave Camp. Obama has called for a
28 percent rate for most companies and 25 percent for
manufacturers.  Baucus said his plan would provide a “permanent solution”
to U.S. international tax rules that encourage companies to
leave profits outside the country.  “Frankly, the failure to do reform is hurting the
economy,” he said. “There’s no question of that.”  He was less specific about a rate target for individuals.
Camp, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, has
proposed a top rate of 25 percent, down from today’s 39.6
percent.  ‘Simplify’ Code  “Look, it’s hard, because there are a lot of provisions
that people like a lot, whether it’s charitable deduction or
mortgage or state and local, whatnot,” Baucus said. “But,
still, I do believe that we can dramatically simplify the
code.”  Baucus said his committee’s work on taxes will proceed on a
parallel track with a bipartisan budget conference, which is
scheduled to conclude by Dec. 13. The Finance panel could
provide numbers to the budget group.  The White House could accept either a longer-term budget or
a short-term deal spanning one or two years from the group, said
Burwell. Any agreement, though, must include higher tax revenue.  “The conference can think about a 10-year deal that
includes some of these big issues,” she said, “or can think
about a smaller approach, and that approach would be more like
one or two” years.  Revenue Stalemate  The two parties are at a stalemate over tax revenue.
Republicans oppose revenue increases in exchange for reductions
in Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. Democrats have said
they won’t consider those changes without cutting tax breaks for
wealthy individuals and corporations.  “We believe you have to think about it in a balanced way
over time and include not just entitlements, but also revenue,”
Burwell said.  Baucus, who has served in the Senate since 1978 and isn’t
running for a seventh term next year, supports using tax-code
changes to raise additional revenue, though less than other
Democrats favor.  Earlier in the year, he had said he planned to have the
committee consider a bill, what is known as holding a markup,
“this fall.”  “I can’t give a date on markup,” he said today. “But we
have to move quickly, because time is soon not becoming our
friend.”  IRS Nominee  He also said he expects the Senate to confirm John Koskinen
this year as the next commissioner of the Internal Revenue
Service.  The tax agency, under congressional scrutiny for its
treatment of Tea Party-affiliated groups, has lacked a confirmed
commissioner since November 2012. Obama nominated Koskinen, a
former chairman of Freddie Mac, in August.  On the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, also
known as Obamacare, Baucus said he has “spent a lot of time”
pressing administration officials, including White House Chief
of Staff  Denis McDonough , on implementation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  