-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise as Inflation Exceeds Forecast; Real Falls
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-10-18T13:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/brazil-swap-rates-rise-as-inflation-exceeds-forecast-real-falls.html
Brazil ’s swap rates climbed as
report showing higher-than-forecast inflation added to
speculation that the central bank will raise its target lending
rate to 10 percent next month.  Swap rates on contracts maturing in January 2015 rose five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 10.47 percent at
10:09 a.m. in Sao Paulo, the highest level on a closing basis
since Sept. 12. They extended their five-day increase to 12
basis points. The real fell 0.3 percent to 2.1589 per dollar,
paring its gain this week to 0.8 percent.  While the national statistics agency reported today that
inflation slowed in the 12 months through mid-October, the 5.75
percent annual rate was still more than a percentage point above
the middle of the central bank’s 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent
range. The median forecast of 24 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 5.69 percent. Policy makers said in minutes of
their Oct. 8-9 meeting published yesterday that they will remain
vigilant in working to curb inflation amid wage increases.  “The inflation data were quite bad,” Flavio Serrano,
senior economist at Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento in Sao
Paulo, said in a phone interview. “The central bank has used a
hawkish discourse and the minutes this week reinforced the idea
that rates will continue rising.”  The central bank voted unanimously last week to raise the
target lending rate to 9.5 percent from 9 percent, marking the
fourth straight time it increased borrowing costs by a half-percentage point.  The real headed for its third weekly gain as carry trades
are making investors the most money in more than a year after
U.S. budget brinkmanship pushed back estimates of when the
Federal Reserve will begin paring its monetary stimulus program.  Under carry trades, investors borrow in countries with low
interest rates and use the proceeds to invest where rates are
higher. Fed policy makers cited last month risks stemming
from the U.S. government shutdown as a reason for continuing to
pump $85 billion a month into the economy by purchasing bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  