-- Canada, EU Reach Free-Trade Deal After 4 Years of Talks
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-10-18T13:55:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/canada-eu-reach-free-trade-deal-after-4-years-of-talks.html
Canada and the European Union
reached an “agreement in principle” on a free-trade treaty
that brings near an end more than four years of negotiations.  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  and European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  announced the agreement today
following a meeting in Brussels.  The pact, which would need the approval of EU national
governments and the European Parliament, will eliminate about 98
percent of all Canadian and EU tariff lines on the first day of
its implementation. The sticking points have included Canadian
access to the EU’s beef and pork markets and European access to
Canada’s dairy market as well as to Canadian public-procurement
contracts at the sub-federal level.  “This agreement is vastly positive for the Canadian
economy,” Harper told reporters at a press conference in
Brussels today with Barroso. “Over time, it’s in everyone’s
interest.”  Barroso said the deal with  Canada  sets the standard for
negotiations with other partners, such as the U.S.  “This is also a landmark achievement for the transatlantic
economy and a stepping stone to an integrated transatlantic
market,” Barosso said.  Diversify Trade  A free-trade agreement has been Harper’s signature commerce
initiative as he seeks to diversify Canada’s trade away from the
U.S. Canada has relatively more to gain from a deal, according
to a joint study released in 2008 by Canada and the Brussels-based European Commission.  An agreement would increase annual Canadian gross domestic
product by 8.2 billion euros ($11.1 billion), equivalent at the
time to about 0.77 percent of the country’s output, the joint
study showed. The EU economy would increase its  annual output  by
11.6 billion euros, or 0.08 percent, according to the study.  While the EU bought 8.9 percent of Canadian exports in
2012, Canada represented 1.9 percent of total EU exports,
according to  Statistics Canada  and Eurostat data. The U.S.
received three-quarters of Canada’s exports in August.  The agreement moves beyond trade by including provisions on
investment, government procurement and intellectual property, a
key requirement for EU negotiators. Canada is opening up its
procurement market to European companies and extending the term
of patent protection available to European companies.  Provincial Compensation  While pharmaceutical prices in Canada may increase, the
rise probably won’t be large, Harper said. The Canadian
government will compensate the nation’s provinces for any
additional cost to the health-care system, he said.  The pact includes an investment chapter that will provide
investors with “greater certainty, stability, transparency and
protection for their investment,” according to a Canadian
government statement. Canada still has the right to review EU
investments to determine whether they are of “net benefit” to
the country and meet national security requirements. The size
threshold that triggers a government review of foreign
acquisitions will be raised to C$1.5 billion for EU companies.  The Canadian government automatically reviews foreign
takeovers of businesses with assets of at least C$344 million.  Canada and the EU will phase out auto tariffs on both sides
over seven years. The EU will also allow Canada to export
100,000 cars that don’t meet the 50 percent made-in-Canada rule
of origin requirement.  Beef, Cheese  Negotiations had been deadlocked over agricultural-goods
disputes until recently, particularly over Canadian beef and EU
cheese. The EU will raise its quota for beef exports by 50,000
tons, while Canada agreed to allow 17,700 tons more of cheese
imports from the EU. The Canadian government said it will
consider compensation to dairy farmers if the changes have a big
impact on revenue.  The EU is sidestepping stalled World Trade Organization
efforts to open markets by seeking commerce deals with
individual countries or groups of nations, while Canada is
trying to diversify trade away from the U.S.  The EU has struck recent trade accords with  South Korea ,
 Singapore  and the pairing of Colombia and  Peru . The bloc also
agreed in November last year to start talks with  Japan  and gave
the green light four months ago for negotiations with the U.S.
to expand the world’s biggest economic relationship.  A formal agreement needs to be completed and a legal review
performed before the pact is signed, according to the Canadian
government, which said in a technical briefing with reporters
the agreement would probably take 18 months to 24 months to
ratify.  “The political issues, the difficult points are now
agreed, and now it’s just a matter of technically finishing the
agreement,” Barroso said. “I don’t see any reasons to have
doubts about its effective implementation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  