-- Harper Says Canada-EU Trade Deal ‘Historic Step’
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-10-18T20:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/canada-s-harper-says-eu-trade-deal-historic-step.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said a trade agreement with the European Union is a
“historic” deal that will help his nation diversify exports
away from the U.S.  “While Canada’s trade in the past few years has been
diversifying, this is the unprecedented step to begin to broaden
beyond the  United States ,” Harper said today in an interview
with  Bloomberg News  in Brussels, after announcing Canada and the
EU have reached an agreement in principle. “It’s historic in
that context.”  With talks at the  World Trade Organization  stalled, the
deal with the EU may become a “global standard” for treaties
among other nations, he said.  “It’s a big deal for the world particularly to the extent
this has started to open up a path for a possible U.S.-Euro
deal,” Harper said. “It is of some import to the world in
terms of where we are going.”  Canada ’s reliance on the U.S. for three-quarters of  exports 
took a toll in the last recession in 2008 with shipments
slumping as global demand cooled. The U.S. and the EU began
negotiations on a free trade deal in July.  The pact needs the approval of EU national governments and
the European Parliament, and will eliminate about 98 percent of
all Canadian and EU tariff lines when it comes into effect. The
sticking points have included Canadian access to the EU’s beef
and pork markets and European access to Canada’s dairy market as
well as to Canadian public-procurement contracts at the sub-federal level.  Supply Management  Harper said while Canada’s dairy industry is opposed to the
agreement, the system of so-called supply management has a
chance of surviving afterward.  “The fact of the matter is that in terms of trying to
protect that system, this deal actually goes a long way to do
this,” Harper said. “Over time, this agreement serves their
interest.”  According to a joint 2008 study by Canada and the Brussels-based European Commission, an agreement would increase annual
Canadian gross domestic product by 8.2 billion euros ($11.2
billion), equivalent at the time to about 0.77 percent of the
country’s output. The EU economy would grow its annual output by
11.6 billion euros, or 0.08 percent, the study said.  While the EU bought 8.9 percent of Canadian exports in
2012, Canada represented 1.9 percent of total EU exports,
according to  Statistics Canada  and Eurostat data.  NAFTA  Canada’s  exports to the U.S.  surged after signing a trade
agreement with its southern neighbor in 1988, which was followed
by the two countries signing the  North American Free Trade
Agreement  with  Mexico . In recent years those exports have been a
weak part of Canada’s economy as shipments of automobiles and
lumber to the U.S. dropped. Central bank governor and former
head of the country’s export financing arm Stephen Poloz has
said Canadian companies need to expand into new faster-growing
markets.  “We are now pretty certainly going to be a central player
in the global trading system, and in a world where global value
chains are more important in terms of the production of economic
activity,” Harper said.  Other countries should follow Canada’s example and resist
protectionism that will weaken the global economy, he said.  “The single biggest risk to turning a short-term financial
crisis into a long-term depression would be the growth of
protectionism,” he said. “The single biggest way to make sure
it is precisely the opposite is the trade system remains robust
and in fact expands and becomes freer and more open.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  