-- Canada Beef Group Sees Expanded Hormone-Free Output on EU Trade
-- B y   J e n   S k e r r i t t
-- 2013-10-18T20:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/canada-beef-group-sees-expanded-hormone-free-output-on-eu-trade.html
Ranchers in  Canada  will raise more
cattle without hormones under a new trade agreement because beef
exports to the European Union may sell for three times the price
of domestic meat, said Rob Meijer, the president of industry
group  Canada Beef Inc.   The Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement with the 28-nation trading bloc, announced today, will allow as much as
64,940 metric tons of Canadian beef and veal valued at C$600
million ($582.8 million) to be exported to the EU, which bans
the use of growth hormones in meat, Canada Beef said in a
statement.  Raising livestock without  hormones , which can speed growth
and requires less feed, costs C$25 to C$50 more per head, Meijer
said. The expense will be profitable because the premium for EU
sales may exceed those in China and  Japan , where the meat
fetches about twice the price in Canada, he said.  “The premium will be there to justify this transition,”
Meijer said in a telephone interview from Calgary. “Over the
next year and a half, we will start ramping up the supply
chain.”  Early on, Canada probably will only be able to produce
about 25 percent of the maximum allowed under the trade
agreement, he said. There are no statistics on how much of the
nation’s meat output is hormone free.  The trade agreement will provide a boost for Canadian beef
and pork producers that have lost sales in the U.S. because of
new rules that require labels to show a country of origin,
Alberta Agriculture Minister Verlyn Olson said in a telephone 
interview from Edmonton.  Alberta accounts for 40 percent of Canada’s  cattle herd  and
is the second-largest grower of canola and wheat, government
 data  show. Canola exporters may boost sales by C$90 million a
year because of tariffs eliminated under the trade agreement,
the Canada Canola Council said in a statement. EU tariffs on
wheat will be reduced to zero over a seven-year period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jen Skerritt in Winnipeg at 
 jskerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  