-- Canada September Inflation Holds Near Central Bank Floor
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-10-18T13:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/canada-september-inflation-holds-near-central-bank-floor.html
Canadian consumer  prices  advanced at
a 1.1 percent pace for a second month in September, close to the
bottom of the central bank’s target range, on gains in shelter
and food costs.  The  core  rate, which excludes eight volatile products, also
matched August’s pace at 1.3 percent,  Statistics Canada  said
today from Ottawa. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast
total inflation of 1.0 percent and core inflation of 1.4
percent.  Governor Stephen Poloz said last week that growth has
“disappointed” and the economy is operating below the level
the  Bank of Canada  expected six months ago. The bank predicted
in July that inflation will stay below its 2 percent target
until the second quarter of 2015. It’s scheduled to make an
interest rate announcement and provide a new forecast Oct. 23,
and economists predict the  key interest rate  will remain at 1
percent, where it’s been for more than three years.  “It re-enforces that the bank is going to have a lot of
breathing room on the inflation front to remain sidelined,”
Mazen Issa, a macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.  The Canadian dollar was little changed following the
report, trading at 1.0297 per  U.S. dollar  at 8:53 a.m. in
Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys 97.11 U.S. cents  Shelter costs rose 1.4 percent in September after an August
pace of 1.1 percent, with gains in natural gas and rent,
Statistics Canada said. Food prices increased 1.2 percent,
including a 7.2 percent jump in the fresh vegetable category.  The gain in total inflation was curbed by a 0.3 percent
decline in gasoline and a 0.1 percent fall in health and
personal care products.  Target Band  The central bank sets  interest rates  to keep inflation in
the middle of a 1 percent to 3 percent band. The rate of price
increases has remained below 2 percent for 17 months.  On a monthly basis, both total and core  inflation  rose 0.2
percent in September. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted
that total monthly prices would rise 0.1 percent and the core
rate would increase 0.3 percent.  Seasonally adjusted inflation rose 0.2 percent in September
and the adjusted core rate rose 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  