-- Canadian Dollar Weakens With Inflation at Low End of Target Band
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-10-18T21:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/canadian-dollar-weakens-before-september-consumer-price-report.html
The Canadian dollar fell versus most
of its 16 major peers as a government report showed inflation
remained at the low end of the  Bank of Canada ’s target band.  The currency fluctuated against its U.S. counterpart as
consumer prices increased 1.1 percent in September from a year
earlier, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. That compared
with a forecast for a 1 percent increase, according the median
in a Bloomberg survey of 22 economists. The Bank of Canada,
which is scheduled to make its next policy announcement Oct. 23,
targets inflation at 1 to 3 percent. Speculation increased that
the partial U.S. government shutdown ended yesterday curbed
economic growth in Canada’s largest trading partner and may spur
the  Federal Reserve  to keep buying bonds into next year.  “The economic landscape in the U.S and Canada is fraught
with uncertainty, and the same concerns about growth in the U.S.
have tainted the Canadian outlook,” said  Mark Chandler , head of
fixed-income strategy at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital
Markets unit, said by phone from Toronto. “Inflation data
continues to come in on the soft side, which gives the Bank of
Canada cover to be more dovish.”  The loonie, as Canada’s dollar is known for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, was little changed at C$1.0286
per  U.S. dollar  at 5:02 p.m. in Toronto. One loonie buys 97.22
U.S. cents.  Bonds Rise  The nation’s benchmark 10-year government bonds rose, with
yields down three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
2.53 percent. The 1.5 percent securities maturing in June 2023
added 24 cents to C$91.28.  The core inflation rate, which excludes eight volatile
products, matched August’s pace at 1.3 percent, the report
showed.  Bank of  Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz said last week that
growth has “disappointed” and the economy is operating below
the level the Bank of Canada expected six months ago. The bank
predicted in July that inflation will stay below its 2 percent
target until the second quarter of 2015.  “September’s slightly weaker-than-expected core inflation
reading is consistent with the increase in economic slack over
the past year,” David Madani, an economist at Capital Economics
Ltd.  wrote in a note to clients. “With the Bank of Canada’s
export-led recovery hopes likely to face even more delays, we
expect underlying inflation to remain muted over the remainder
of this year.”  Trade Pact  Canada and the European Union reached an “agreement in
principle” on a free-trade treaty that brings near an end more
than four years of negotiations. Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen
Harper  and European Commission President  Jose Barroso  announced
the agreement today following a meeting in Brussels.  The pact, which would need the approval of EU national
governments and the European Parliament, will eliminate about 98
percent of all Canadian and EU tariff lines on the first day of
its implementation.  Canadian investors are withdrawing the most cash from
domestic fixed-income funds in three years, joining foreign
counterparts exiting the country’s bond markets as rising
interest rates cut returns.  Investors withdrew C$1.38 billion ($1.34 billion) from
Canadian government and investment-grade funds in September,
according to data from the Investment Funds Institute of Canada.
The withdrawals were the largest since the mutual-fund group
started keeping current records in May 2010.  Statistics Canada 
said yesterday that foreigners sold C$1.22 billion of Canadian
government debt in August, while buying a net C$2.03 billion of
the nation’s corporate bonds.  The Canadian dollar has fallen 2.5 percent this year
against nine developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The Australian dollar is
down 6.2 percent, and the U.S. dollar has added 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  