-- Canada Stocks Rise for 4th Day as Royal Bank Reaches Record High
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-10-18T20:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/canada-stocks-rise-for-fourth-day-as-oil-rallies-on-china-growth.html
Canadian  stocks  rose for a fourth
day, extending a two-year high, as  Royal Bank (RY)  of  Canada  soared
to a record close and energy producers surged on accelerating
economic growth in  China .  Royal Bank gained 1.2 percent as the market value of the
nation’s largest lender rose past C$100 billion for the first
time. Bankers Petroleum Ltd. and  Advantage Oil & Gas Ltd. (AAV) 
climbed more than 2.7 percent as  oil companies  advanced. H&R
Real Estate Investment Trust and Canadian Apartment Properties
REIT added at least 2.5 percent to pace gains among financial
stocks. Athabasca Oil Corp. tumbled 9.9 percent after an Alberta
court decided to allow an aboriginal group to appeal an approval
of the company’s Dover oil-sands project.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  rose 99.64
points, or 0.8 percent, to 13,136 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The
benchmark Canadian equity gauge rose each of the four sessions
in a holiday-shortened week, gaining 1.9 percent in the period
for the best weekly gain since July. The index finished the week
at the highest level since July 2011.  “There’s a lot of positive news pushing the markets up,”
said Stephen Gauthier, chief investment officer with Fin-XO
Securities Inc. in  Montreal . His firm manages about C$550
million ($534.8 million). “Commodities have been holding up.
The China numbers are a big plus. It’s a good continuation of
the rally we had since the U.S. reached an accord on raising the
debt limit.”  China’s economic growth accelerated for the first time in
three quarters, with  gross domestic product  gaining 7.8 percent
in the third quarter, matching the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. The country is Canada’s second-largest trading
partner.  U.S. Congressional leaders agreed to a deal this week to
end a government shutdown and avert the threat of a default
following weeks of stalemate.  Royal Bank Record  Royal Bank, the nation’s largest company, jumped 1.2
percent to C$69.53, the seventh straight gain that left the
stock at a record. The  market value  for Royal Bank climbed to
C$100.1 billion, the first bank in Canada to break that mark.  Bank stocks, which have been undervalued compared with
other Canadian companies, are getting a lift from good housing
data, according  Peter Routledge , a National Bank Financial
analyst.  Toronto-Dominion Bank, Bank of  Nova Scotia  and  National
Bank of Canada  also reached record highs, while the Bank of
Montreal soared 1 percent to C$71.76, the highest since April
2007.  Energy Rally  Bankers Petroleum added 3.2 percent to C$4.17 and Advantage
Oil & Gas increased 2.7 percent to C$4.19 as  oil producers 
rallied 0.9 percent as a group, for the highest close since
March 2012. Crude advanced as much as 1 percent in  New York 
before paring gains.  Nine of 10  industries  in the S&P/TSX rose as trading volume
was 6.4 percent below the 30-day average.  H&R REIT jumped 2.6 percent to C$21.65 and Canadian
Apartment REIT climbed 2.5 percent to C$21.87 as financial
stocks increased 0.8 percent.  Investors are buying into higher-yielding stocks such as
REITs as bond yields have fallen since the U.S. resolution to
its budget impasse, Gauthier said.  “Bonds continue to rally in the post-shutdown
environment,” said  Mark Chandler , head of Canadian fixed income
strategy with RBC Dominion Securities Inc., in a report to
clients.  Telus Corp. rallied 2.1 percent to C$35.22 and Rogers
Communications Inc. added 1.4 percent to C$46.39 as telephone
stocks advanced 1.4 percent as a group, the most in the S&P/TSX.  Bombardier Soars  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  increased 1.8 percent to C$5.08 after
disclosing CDB Leasing Co., a Chinese company, is a customer
with a firm order of 15 CSeries jetliners and an option for
another 15 of the aircraft. The contract is worth as much as
$2.07 billion.  BlackBerry Ltd., the smartphone maker looking to sell
itself, rose 2.4 percent to C$8.64 for a second day of gains.
Lenovo Group Ltd., the Beijing-based computer manufacturer, has
signed a non-disclosure agreement with BlackBerry and is
considering a bid for the company, Dow Jones reported yesterday,
citing people familiar with the situation.  Athabasca Oil sank 9.9 percent to C$6.27, the most since
May. The Alberta Energy Regulator on Aug. 6 approved the
company’s Dover proposal, noting in its 40-page decision that
the project won’t have a direct impact on the Moose Lake area, a
traditional territory of the Fort McKay First Nation.  The aboriginal group, which is surrounded by oil sands
operations, had requested a 20-kilometer (12-mile) buffer around
the project to protect their traditional hunting territory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  