-- China’s Bond Yield Rise for Third Week on Faster Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-18T08:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/china-s-bond-yield-rise-for-third-week-on-faster-growth.html
China ’s 10-year government bonds
fell, with the yield rising to a five-week high, on concern
inflation will quicken as economic growth gathers pace.  China’s economy expanded 7.8 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, up from 7.5 percent in the previous three
months, the National Bureau of Statistics reported today. The
 consumer price  index gained 3.1 percent in September, faster
than 2.6 percent in August, official data showed Oct. 14. That
was more than the median estimate of 2.8 percent in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists.  “Economic expansion seems to be regaining momentum, and
considering that September’s inflation raised concern that the
CPI may remain elevated in the fourth quarter, we may see the
yield test even higher,” said Liu Wenbo, an analyst at Shanghai
Cifco Futures Co.  The yield on the 4.08 percent notes due August 2023 climbed
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, this week to 4.13
percent as of 4:36 p.m. in Shanghai, according to data from the
Interbank Funding Center. That’s the biggest increase since the
debt was sold in August and the highest level since Sept. 13.
The rate rose one basis point today.  Money Market  Money-market rates fell this week. The People’s Bank of
China didn’t conduct repurchase or reverse-repurchase operations
yesterday, with a  net  44.5 billion  yuan  ($7.3 billion) flowing
out of the banking system this week.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability, dropped 73 basis points to 3.49 percent, according
to a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. It advanced 13 basis points today.  China’s foreign-exchange reserves, the world’s largest,
climbed to $3.66 trillion as of Sept. 30, from $3.5 trillion at
the end of June, according to data from the central bank
released on Oct. 14.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed payment to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, fell for a seventh
straight week, losing two basis points to 3.95 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It rose three basis
points today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in  Shanghai  at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  