-- China Housing Sales Jump as Demand Defies Government Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-18T09:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/china-september-home-sales-jump-as-demand-defies-property-curbs.html
China ’s home sales jumped 34 percent
in September from the previous month, as the government
refrained from adding to property curbs, emboldening buyers.  The  value of homes  sold climbed to 691.1 billion  yuan  ($113
billion) last month from 514.6 billion yuan in August, based on
the difference between the National Bureau of Statistics data
for the first three quarters of the year and the first eight
months. Housing sales in the first nine months surged 34.5
percent to 4.54 trillion yuan from a year earlier, according to
the data.  The government in March stepped up a three-year campaign to
cool the housing market by ordering the central bank to raise
down-payment requirements for second mortgages in cities with
excessive cost gains. Some Chinese cities are facing increasing
pressure to meet the annual home-price targets they set earlier
this year, and to cap gains at the growth rate of local
disposable incomes.  “Home sales have been gathering pace since the end of
August after banks loosened lending” as the government tried to
stem an  economic slowdown , Luo Yu, a Shanghai-based analyst at
advisory CEBM Group, said by phone. “Buying demand remains
strong although more people are taking to the sidelines” after
prices surged.  Three-Year Campaign  Home prices  rose 9.5 percent last month from a year ago,
the most since December, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) ,
China’s biggest real estate website owner.  China’s housing ministry will study property markets in
some cities in the near term, signaling it is accelerating the
establishment of a system for long-term property controls, which
includes financing policies for real estate companies, China
Securities Journal said Oct. 14, citing unidentified people.  China hasn’t changed its housing credit policy direction of
supporting first-time homebuyers and the construction of smaller
apartments, the central bank said in a statement on Oct. 16.
About 77 percent of new mortgages were taken out by first home
buyers in the first three quarters, indicating that buying for
investment purposes has been restricted, it said.  China’s economic growth rose 7.8 percent in the July-September period from a year earlier, accelerating for the first
time in three quarters, the statistics bureau said today, as
Premier  Li Keqiang  spurred factory output and investment to meet
the government’s expansion goal for 2013. New yuan loans jumped
26 percent to 787 billion yuan last month from a year earlier,
the central bank said Oct. 14.  Domestic Loans  Domestic loans to developers jumped 50 percent last month
from a year earlier, as compared to the 25 percent-pace recorded
in August, Luo said, citing today’s government data and his own
calculations. September is a traditionally strong season for
home sales, he said.  Investment in homes, office buildings, malls and other real
estate gained 19.7 percent to 6.11 trillion yuan in the first
nine months, according to the statistics bureau data. New
property construction rose 7.3 percent to 1.45 billion square
meters (15.6 billion square feet).  An  index  tracking property shares on the Shanghai Composite
Index rose 0.5 percent at close of trading, compared with a 0.2
percent rally in the  benchmark .  About 68 percent of Chinese households considered property
prices “too high” in the third quarter, up 0.9 percentage
point from the previous quarter, according to a central bank
quarterly survey on Sept. 18.  Home sales volume rose 23.9 percent in the first nine
months to 754.3 million square meters from last year, the
government data showed today. Property sales value including
office buildings and retail space climbed 33.9 percent to 5.4
trillion yuan from a year ago.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  