-- China State Grid Builds More Networks to Handle Wind Capacity
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-18T08:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/china-state-grid-builds-more-networks-to-handle-wind-capacity.html
China  State Grid Corp., the nation’s
largest power distributor, is boosting efforts to build more
electricity networks to enhance the grid’s ability to handle
power from new sources such as wind.  Preliminary work is accelerating on an ultra-high voltage
link to deliver wind power from Jiuquan in the northwestern
province of Gansu to southern Hunan, said Zhang Zhengling,
deputy director of the development and planning department at
China State Grid. Two grid lines are also being built to
transmit power from northern Hebei to areas including Beijing
and Tianjin city, he said in an interview yesterday.  Grid improvements in China are necessary to deal with an
influx of new energy sources. In particular, enhancements would
help reduce idled wind capacity, particularly in the north.  The state-owned grid operator is creating capacity in areas
where the issue of idled wind power is most severe, Zhang said
at a conference yesterday.  The annual rate of China’s idled wind capacity may fall to
12 percent this year from 17 percent in 2012, Guo Yanheng, the
deputy director of the National Renewable Energy Engineering
Information Management Center, said in August.  Turning wind farms off cost operators at least 10.6 billion
 yuan  ($1.74 billion) in lost revenue last year, almost doubled
2011’s figure, according to the renewable energy center.  China plans to take two to three years to resolve the
issue, Shi Lishan, deputy director of the renewable energy
department under the National Energy Administration, said.  Wind Farms  China has optimized the planning of wind farms, with new
approvals centered in Shandong and Shanxi provinces and stricter
controls in the north, Zhang said.  The electricity lost because of wind curtailment, the term
used to describe wind farms producing at less than their
generation capacity, may fall at least 25 percent to below 15
billion kilowatt-hours this year from a year ago, he estimates.  By the end of the year, the grid company will start
operating another line from Hami in Xinjiang to Henan, which can
handle 8 gigawatts of wind power and 1.25 gigawatts of solar,
Zhang said at the conference.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  