-- China to Increase Short-Distance Solar-Power Distribution
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-18T10:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/china-to-increase-short-distance-solar-power-distribution.html
China , Asia’s largest solar market,
plans to add more generation projects in regions where the
electricity can be distributed to customers who live nearby.  The government intends to expand the total capacity of such
projects to 20 gigawatts by 2015, Wu Xinxiong, head of the
National Energy Administration, said in a speech posted on the
agency’s website. That compares with just 2 gigawatts at the end
of last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  By increasing short-distance distribution, China can avoid
overloading grids that have struggled to absorb the recent
growth in solar and wind-energy generation, which are both
intermittent sources of power that peak with favorable weather.  Next year China will add 6 gigawatts of distributed solar
power, or power from plants that are dispersed rather than from
a central hub, Wu said. More than 80 percent of that capacity
will be in the regions around Shanghai, Guangzhou and Beijing.  Those areas have higher electricity demand than other
cities, Wang Minnan, a Beijing-based analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance, said today by telephone. “There’s no need to
transmit power across long distance,” she said.  China has a target to reach 35 gigawatts of total solar
capacity by 2015, according to Wu’s speech posted online
yesterday. The country introduced a subsidy of 0.42  yuan  (7
cents) a kilowatt-hour in August for projects of less than 6
megawatts connected to grids of as much as 10 kilovolts.  China Development Bank Corp. will set up local financing
and investment bodies to advance the planned plants, Wu said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  