-- Clinton First Campaign Trip Aims to Rally Virginia Votes
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-10-18T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/clinton-first-campaign-trip-aims-to-rally-virginia-votes.html
Hillary Clinton is back in the
arena.  The former U.S. secretary of state will make her first
campaign-trail trip since stepping down from her diplomatic post
in February when she heads to the swing state of Virginia
tomorrow to help an old family friend.  Clinton’s appearance for gubernatorial candidate Terry McAuliffe, who served as campaign chairman for her unsuccessful
2008 presidential bid, is the type of many such requests she’s
likely to receive as she weighs her own political future and
gathers favors for a potential 2016 White House bid.  State parties and candidates in such early caucus and
primary states as  Iowa , New Hampshire and South Carolina
traditionally ask party headliners to help with fundraising and
campaign appeals during the midterm elections. The invitations
that Clinton, 65, accepts will be closely watched for hints
about her own intentions.  “People develop certain expectations that a potential
presidential candidate will come out and help with party-building activities and campaigning,” said Kathy Sullivan, a
former chairwoman of the New Hampshire Democratic Party who
remains a member of the  Democratic National Committee . “It puts
her in a bit of a bind.”  Clinton, who is also a former U.S. senator from New York,
will be given more leeway by party activists and politicians
because most Democrats understand she’s in heavy demand,
Sullivan said.  Carefully Watched  “If she were to give a positive response to everyone who
would want to have her, the former secretary of state would
never have time to go home,” Sullivan said. “What she does is
watched so carefully, I would understand if she is very
circumspect about the number of appearances she might make.”  Requests for Clinton’s time are likely to be most common
from Democrats seeking a boost with female voters, as is the
case in the  Virginia  race where McAuliffe’s main opponent is
Republican state Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli.  Her popularity with women stems in part from the prospect
that she could make history in 2016 by being elected the first
U.S. female president. Among Democrats, 61 percent say they’d
vote for Clinton if the primaries were held now, according to a
Quinnipiac University national  poll  conducted Sept. 23-29.
Within that group, 66 percent of women and 54 percent of men say
they would back Clinton.  Her scheduled stop with McAuliffe in a northern Virginia
suburb is built around the theme of “Women for Terry,” and the
rally will include appearances by the candidate’s wife, Dorothy,
and other female supporters ahead of the state’s Nov. 5
election.  Presidential Help  Former President Bill Clinton has also been helping
McAuliffe, who was a leading fundraiser for his White House
bids. Earlier this week, McAuliffe reported he’d raised more
than $6.2 million in September. Cuccinelli said he’d collected
$3.4 million.  Polling in Virginia shows McAuliffe with a lead in a state
that, after being carried by Republican presidential candidates
for 44 years, voted for President  Barack Obama  in 2008 and 2012
and is expected to be a contested state in 2016.  A NBC News/Marist  poll  released yesterday showed McAuliffe
leading Cuccinelli by 8 percentage points among likely voters,
46 percent to 38 percent, with Libertarian candidate Robert
Sarvis at 9 percent. McAuliffe had a 7-point lead in a  survey 
released Oct. 15 by Virginia’s Christopher Newport University,
an edge fueled by a 14-point advantage among likely women
voters.  Cuccinelli’s Record  McAuliffe is working to exploit the gender gap by
highlighting Cuccinelli’s support for defunding the women’s
health organization Planned Parenthood, an operator of abortion
clinics, and legislation recognizing life from the moment of
fertilization, which critics contend would lead to a ban on some
birth control.  Hillary Clinton recently raised her profile in speeches
often focused on women’s and children issues. She’s also
accepted more than a dozen awards this year from national groups
and is working on a  memoir  due out in June. She’s has yet to
announce whether she will seek the presidency.  “I’m not in any hurry,” she  told  New York magazine last
month in what was her first extended interview since leaving the
State Department. “I think it’s a serious decision, not to be
made lightly, but it’s also not one that has to be made soon.”  Sullivan, the former New Hampshire Democratic chairwoman,
said potential 2016 presidential candidates have been slower
than usual to visit her state because of Clinton.  “It’s been pretty quiet because so many people are waiting
to see what Hillary Clinton is going to do,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings in Washington at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  