-- Commerzbank ‘Cheap’ as Bank May Pass ECB Test, Exane Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-10-18T10:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/commerzbank-cheap-as-bank-may-pass-ecb-test-exane-says.html
Investors should own  Commerzbank AG (CBK) 
as  Germany ’s second-biggest lender may pass a test of its
financial health by the  European Central Bank , according to
Exane BNP Paribas.  Commerzbank, which has gained more than 50 percent since
the end of July, still commands a “sufficiently compelling”
valuation, Guillaume Tiberghien, a London-based Exane analyst,
wrote in a note to clients today. “Improving odds of passing
the test should allow the re-rating to continue.”  The ECB is assuming oversight of  Europe ’s biggest banks
from national regulators to ease the debt crisis by helping to
break the link between states and their lenders. Frankfurt-based
Commerzbank is among lenders with unprofitable loans that are
waiting to see how tough the central bank will be when
determining if banks need additional capital to withstand more
stressed scenarios.  Commerzbank  rose  as much as 1.5 percent to 9.877 euros in
Frankfurt trading today, the highest intraday level since March,
and was 1 percent higher as of 12:40 p.m. local time.  Exane, which has an outperform  recommendation  on the stock,
raised its price target 26 percent to 11.7 euros.  Commerzbank would pass the ECB’s test if non-performing
loans at its unprofitable unit for winding down assets were to
almost double, the analyst wrote. That calculation also assumed
a 6 percent capital requirement, according to the note.  The bank is “well positioned” for the ECB’s review after
similar audits of its assets, Stephan Engels, Commerzbank’s
chief financial officer, told analysts on a conference call in
August. “I do not see any specific risk there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  