-- Consol Energy Seen Rising 32% on Coal-Gas Split: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-10-18T20:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/consol-energy-seen-rising-32-on-coal-gas-split-real-m-a.html
Consol Energy Inc. (CNX) , the coal
producer that’s also trying to get in on  North America ’s shale-gas boom, may be one step closer to a breakup that could hand
its shareholders a 32 percent gain.  The Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based company, which has  mined 
coal since the U.S. Civil War, said last week that it’s
evaluating its corporate structure and ways to boost the  stock
price . Management sees some investors favoring Consol’s growing
natural gas business with acreage in the Marcellus shale
deposit, and others assigning more value to the cash-flow
generating coal assets, leaving it to decide whether it’s time
to  separate the two , Nomura Holdings Inc. said.  While Consol shares rose in the past year even as most coal
stocks were battered, it’s  underperforming  the broader Standard
& Poor’s 500 Energy Index, which has been led by gains in oil
and gas producers, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Deutsche
Bank AG and  Raymond James  Financial Inc. estimate that Consol
would be valued at up to $50 a share, 32 percent more than
yesterday, if it were to break up. At that price, Consol’s
market value would climb about $2.8 billion to $11.4 billion.  “Investors have been voicing some concerns about this
conglomerate structure,” Lucas Pipes, a New York-based analyst
at Brean Capital LLC, said in a phone interview. “The gas guys
don’t really understand the coal business, and the coal guys
don’t really understand the gas business, so ultimately this
ought to be two separate companies.”  Exploring Options  Consol shares closed at a 21-month high on Oct. 11 after
saying that it’s considering “all options” because investors
aren’t recognizing the full value of the assets. The company was
echoing a July statement that it is evaluating its corporate
structure.  Consol is exploring ways to significantly reduce its coal
holdings and focus more on gas, the Wall Street Journal  reported 
last week. One idea being considered is to make the coal and gas
businesses two separate publicly traded entities, the Journal
said, citing unnamed people familiar with the matter.  Lynn Seay, a spokeswoman at Consol, declined to comment on
specific alternatives the company is exploring and whether they
include a breakup. “If and when there is something to
announce,” it will be communicated to shareholders, she said in
an e-mail yesterday, reiterating the company’s Oct. 11
statement.  Latent Value  Sum-of-the-parts models from Deutsche Bank, Raymond James,
Nomura and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reveal a gap between
Consol’s current price and the value of its businesses. The
estimates range from $39 a share to $50, versus yesterday’s
price of $37.77.  Today, Consol shares rose 0.6 percent to $38.  Consol’s coal assets are in “ cash flow  harvest mode,”
while the gas business is in the “early innings of a very
material growth mode,” Curt Woodworth, a New York-based analyst
at Nomura, wrote in an Oct. 3 report. While management sees
operational synergies between the two, “these would have to be
weighed against the value gap created from a hybrid company
structure.”  The company already has been looking to sell assets to help
finance the growing gas business. In April, it said it was
stepping up the divestitures to include “core” assets such as
its coal- and gas-transportation infrastructure.  Antero Resources Corp., a shale-gas producer with similar
acreage and reserve quality to Consol, made its trading debut
last week after pricing higher than expected. The stock, which
has since surged 25 percent, indicates there may be unrealized
value in Consol, Pipes of Brean Capital wrote in an Oct. 11
note.  Coal Disconnect  At that time, Antero’s valuation implied that Consol’s gas
business may be worth about $7.4 billion, leaving the coal
business -- which contributes the bulk of the company’s revenue
and profit -- valued at less than $4 billion, Pipes wrote.  That means the coal unit is undervalued at just 4.5 times
his estimate for 2014 earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization. North American coal companies
larger than $1 billion, excluding Consol, trade for a median of
7.1 times next year’s Ebitda, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “When you look at Consol’s coal assets, they’re very high
quality, and it’s a difficult time for coal,” Pipes said.  Coal stocks have been languishing amid a supply glut that
reduced prices for coking coal, used to make steel, and a drop
in thermal-coal demand as some electricity plants switched to
gas. The Bloomberg Industries U.S. Coal Operations Index lost 24
percent in the past year. Consol, buoyed by its energy
operations, climbed 5.4 percent in that span.  Fracking Boom  Shares of North American oil and gas producers have risen
amid a surge in hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, to extract
gas trapped in shale formations, a market in which Consol has
been increasing its presence. After years of developing coal-bed
methane, natural gas found in seams of underground coal, Consol
acquired Dominion Resources Inc.’s gas exploration and
production business for $3.48 billion in 2010.  “Consol holds tremendous long-term value, a substantial
amount of which is locked up within” the gas business,  James Rollyson , a Houston-based analyst at Raymond James, wrote in an
Oct. 3 report. “Consol may be able to unlock considerable
value” in a breakup.  One option is to wait for production volumes and commodity
prices to improve until each business is “self-reliant,” which
may be as soon as 2015, Rollyson wrote. Another option is to
immediately spin off the gas piece, leaving the debt with the
coal company, which generates enough  cash flow  to support it, he
wrote.  Group Discount  Consol’s gas business would benefit from being a standalone
company so that it can trade alongside other producers that
operate in the Marcellus and Utica shale deposits, such as  Cabot
Oil & Gas Corp. (COG) , EQT Corp. and Range Resources Corp., according
to Shawn Driscoll, manager of natural resources strategy at T.
Rowe Price Group Inc. in Baltimore. Cabot shares jumped 59
percent in the past 12 months, while EQT is up 47 percent and
Range Resources gained 11 percent.  T. Rowe Price, which has $614 billion of assets under
management, was Consol’s second-largest  shareholder  with an 8.2
percent stake as of June 30, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Consol has “a healthy conglomerate discount,” Driscoll
said in an e-mail. “I absolutely think it should split the
company in two.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  