-- Cooper Tire Witness List Shows Strategy for Apollo Trial
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-10-18T16:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/cooper-tire-witness-list-shows-strategy-for-apollo-trial.html
Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. (CTB)  plans to
seek expert trial testimony on whether suitor  Apollo Tyres Ltd. (APTY) 
used its best efforts in negotiations with the steelworkers’
union to aid in a $2.5 billion takeover, court papers show.  Cooper, based in Findlay,  Ohio , said June 12 that it would
be bought by Apollo for $35 a share. Cooper sued Apollo to
enforce the buyout after the Gurgaon, India-based company failed
to close the deal by an Oct. 4 deadline.  Cooper claims in the  Delaware  Chancery Court lawsuit, which
is headed for trial in three weeks, that Apollo is feeling
“buyer’s remorse.”  Peter Hurtgen and Daniel Silverman, lawyers specializing in
labor relations, will be asked “whether Apollo use reasonable
best efforts” in required talks with the United Steelworkers
union “or refused to accept any commercially reasonable
proposals” before the buyout was to have closed, according to a
filing made public today.  Cooper will also call David Stowell of Northwestern
University’s Kellogg School of Management “concerning the
custom and practice in the financial industry regarding the
reasonable provision of information” in mergers, according to
the filing. Apollo has questioned the currency of Cooper’s data.  Hurtgen is a former chairman of the  National Labor
Relations Board , and Silverman was a regional NLRB director.
Stowell is a finance professor and was a managing director of
JPMorgan Chase & Co., according to court papers and data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Cooper fell as much as 5.72 percent to $24.05 at 11:08 a.m.
in  New York . The shares rebounded to $24.51 at 12 noon.  The case is Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. v. Apollo Holdings Pvt
Ltd., CA8980, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Chancery Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 