-- CP Group, Woolworths Said to Weigh Abandoning ParknShop
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2013-10-18T10:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/cp-group-woolworths-said-to-weigh-abandoning-parknshop-bidding.html
Charoen Pokphand Group and
 Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  are considering dropping their bids for
billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Hong Kong supermarket chain, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  CP Group, controlled by Thai billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont, and Woolworths are balking at Li-controlled
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s asking price for ParknShop, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the deliberations
are private. Hutchison may decide in the coming week whether to
keep ParknShop or sell it, said two people familiar with the
matter.  Hutchison is seeking $3 billion to $4 billion for
ParknShop, one of Hong Kong’s two main supermarket chains, a
person with knowledge of the matter said in August. CP Group is
also concerned it doesn’t have the capacity to manage ParknShop
after an acquisition, said one of the people.  “There are so many people who want to buy, but they are
dropping out because it’s expensive and you can see the problem
is with the seller,” said Titus Wu, an analyst with DBS Vickers
Hong Kong Ltd. “If they want to sell, they should cut the
price.”  Any buyer faces a slowing grocery market and surging rents
in Hong Kong, where property agent Savills Plc. estimates shop
leases have doubled over the past four years. Sales growth in
Hong Kong’s supermarket industry slowed to 7.7 percent in June
from last year’s annual increase of 11 percent, government
statistics show.  Initial Offers  ParknShop attracted initial offers in August from suitors
including  China Resources Enterprise Ltd. (291) ,  Sun Art Retail Group
Ltd. (6808) ,  Japan ’s  Aeon Co. (8267) , Woolworths and CP Group, according to
people with knowledge of the process.  Suthana Hongthong, a CP Group spokeswoman in Bangkok,
declined to comment, as did Hutchison Whampoa spokesman Jeremy
Lau. Woolworths spokeswoman Claire Kimball didn’t immediately
respond to calls outside of regular business hours.  Woolworths,  Australia ’s largest retailer, is seeking ways
to recapture rapid growth which caused net income to rise by
more than 10 percent annually for 11 consecutive years before
slowing to a 5.1 percent rate in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Dhanin is buying at home and abroad with deals including CP
Group’s purchase of a $9.4 billion stake in  China ’s Ping An
Insurance (Group) Co. CP All Pcl, a Bangkok-based 7-Eleven
operator controlled by the billionaire, recently completed a
deal for the purchase of discount wholesaler Siam Makro Pcl.  Second-Largest Grocer  ParknShop, which sells everything from eggs to whiskey, had
33 percent of the Hong Kong grocery market in 2012, trailing
Wellcome, controlled by Singapore-listed  Dairy Farm
International Holdings Ltd. (DFI) , with 40 percent, according to
researcher Euromonitor. CR Vanguard Supermarket, run by state-backed mainland conglomerate China Resources, ranked third with
7.8 percent.  ParknShop had revenue of HK$21.7 billion ($2.8 billion)
last year, and has more than 270 of its 345 outlets in Hong
Kong. ParknShop’s 60 outlets in mainland China have struggled
due to competition from rivals such as Sun Art Retail Group Ltd.
Its mainland operations reported declines in revenue and
operating earnings in 2012, according to Hutchison’s annual
report.  The chain’s first store opened in 1973 in Hong Kong’s
Stanley beach area, one of the few neighborhoods in the
congested city where shoppers can actually park near stores.  Dhanin has a net worth of $6.5 billion, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Many of his assets are owned
through closely-held holding companies that he shares with his
three brothers. Dhanin’s net worth calculation excludes the
stakes held by his brothers, Jaran Chiaravanont, Montri
Jiaravanont and Sumet Jiaravanon. Li has a net worth of $29.2
billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in Hong Kong at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  