-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Hold as Morgan Stanley Credit Risk Declines
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-10-18T21:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/credit-swaps-in-u-s-hold-as-morgan-stanley-credit-risk-declines.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
held at about a six-year low amid speculation that the  Federal
Reserve  may delay cutting back stimulus. The cost to protect the
debt of  Morgan Stanley (MS)  fell.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
0.1 basis point to 71.3 basis points at 4:32 p.m. in New York,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s poised for the
lowest closing level since Nov. 6, 2007, using data that adjust
for the effects of the market’s shift to a new version of the
index last month.  Economic damage from a two-week partial government shutdown
may convince the Fed to postpone reducing its bond-buying
program until next year, boosting investor confidence in credit
markets, according to  William Larkin , a fixed-income  money
manager  at Cabot Money Management.  “We know we’re going to be supported for a while so the
outlook is optimal from that standpoint,” Larkin said in a
telephone interview from Salem,  Massachusetts .  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and climbs as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Effects of the shutdown, which resulted in employee
furloughs and government service stoppages, shaved at least 0.6
percent from fourth-quarter 2013 gross domestic product growth
and took $24 billion out of the economy, according to  Standard &
Poor’s .  Fed’s Evans  “There’s talk about how much gross domestic product the
shutdown took out and how much of an impact it had on spending
confidence,” Larkin said.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said yesterday the U.S.
shouldn’t reduce stimulus after some economic reports stopped
during the 16-day government closure.  The U.S. central bank will delay the first reduction in its
bond purchases until March, when policy makers will pare the
monthly pace of asset buying to $70 billion from $85 billion at
their meeting that month, according to the median of 40
responses in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Morgan Stanley  Morgan Stanley is no longer perceived to be the riskiest of
the six biggest U.S. banks, with credit-default swaps tied to
the New York-based bank dropping below those tied to  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  for the first time since June 2011.  The contracts fell 11 basis points to 110.5 basis points as
of 4:05 p.m. in New York, lower than Goldman Sachs’s 114 basis
points, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw
Hill Financial Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  The bank today reported third-quarter earnings that
exceeded analysts’ estimates as equity trading revenue jumped
and profitability at the brokerage climbed. Morgan Stanley Chief
Executive Officer  James Gorman  is relying more on retail
brokerage to help drive the firm’s results after buying the
remaining portion of a wealth-management joint venture with
Citigroup Inc. earlier this year.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, fell 2.5 basis points to 343.5 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries narrowed 1.7 basis points to 125.6
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt fell 5.5 basis point to 652.3.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
and at least BBB- by S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in  New York  at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  