-- DBS Said to Advance in Bid for SocGen’s Asian Private Bank
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2013-10-18T07:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/dbs-said-to-advance-in-bidding-for-socgen-s-asian-private-bank.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  is among
banks that have advanced in bidding for  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA’s
private banking assets in  Asia , said three people with knowledge
of the matter.  Societe Generale  picked about five suitors to study the
unit’s finances after they made initial offers, said one of the
people, asking not to be named because the process is
confidential. Final bids are expected by the end of November,
according to two people, who didn’t identify the other
companies. The division oversees about $13 billion.  DBS could overtake  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Morgan Stanley in
Asia-Pacific wealth management by buying the Societe Generale
operations, based on figures from Private Banker International.
While wealth in Asia has been growing at a faster pace than
elsewhere, costs as a proportion of revenues for private banks
are higher, studies have shown.  “Wealth is a good business to be in,” said Kevin Kwek, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  Singapore . “It doesn’t
seem to be a large acquisition, and this could potentially fill
some geographic and segment gaps, and add breadth and depth of
customers for DBS.”  Spokeswomen for DBS and Societe Generale declined to
comment.  HSBC Holdings Plc, Standard Chartered Plc and Credit Suisse
Group AG were among companies that submitted first-round bids
for the Societe Generale unit, Reuters reported this month.  Profits Pressured  DBS runs Asia’s ninth-largest private bank, with assets
under management of $46 billion at the end of 2012, according to
a Private Banker International study published last week. Morgan
Stanley oversaw $58 billion while Deutsche Bank managed $50
billion, the report showed.  Wealth management firms worldwide expect consolidation to
accelerate amid rising pressure on profit margins and increased
regulatory and tax scrutiny, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said in
a June report. Costs as a proportion of revenue at Asia’s
private banks are 14 percentage points higher than the global
average, according to PwC.  Societe Generale, France’s second-largest bank by market
value, has managed money for Asia’s wealthy since 1997 through
offices in Singapore and  Hong Kong , according to its website.
The bank, led by Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea , is
selling assets to comply with stricter capital rules designed to
avoid a repeat of the 2008 global financial crisis.  Wealth among Asia-Pacific millionaires may top North
America’s as soon as next year as a resurgent Japanese economy
boosts investor returns in the country, a report by Cap Gemini
SA and Royal Bank of Canada published Sept. 25 showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in Hong Kong at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  