-- De Blasio Looks at Bratton for NYPD as Homicides Fall to Low
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-10-18T15:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/de-blasio-looks-at-bratton-for-nypd-as-homicides-hit-record-low.html
New York City , which had 43
homicides a week in 1990, has been averaging six so far this
year. One of the biggest challenges for the next mayor will be
to keep it that way.  The first major personnel decision for Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s successor will be to choose who will run the 34,000-member police department. With less than three weeks before the
Nov. 5 election, Democrat Bill de Blasio leads Republican Joseph Lhota in polls by as much as 50 percentage points.  Lhota, who’s running a  television  ad warning that de Blasio
will usher in a return to the crime-ridden 1980s, says he wants
to keep Commissioner Raymond Kelly, who’s overseen a 31 percent
drop in felonies since 2001. De Blasio wants a new leader who
would refine Kelly’s stop-and-frisk policy, which he says has
destroyed trust between police and communities. He’s considering
former NYPD Commissioner William Bratton, who’s also run
departments in  Boston  and  Los Angeles , and Philip Banks III, New
York’s highest-ranking uniformed officer.  “Who the next mayor picks as police commissioner will send
a message about where he stands,” said Ed Mullins, president of
the 13,000-member Sergeants Benevolent Association. “We have to
convey to the people of the city that our goal is to keep crime
as low as possible.”  Crack Days  Public safety has become the most divisive campaign issue
as the two candidates vie to lead the most populous U.S. city
and manage its $70 billion budget. The job will require
negotiating new contracts with workers, including police;
continuing vigilance against terrorism; and diversifying an
economy beyond  Wall Street , which supplies high-paying jobs and
7 percent of city tax revenue.  Twenty-five years ago,  New York  was wracked by a crack
cocaine epidemic, aggressive panhandlers, graffiti-marred
subways and the most homicides of any U.S city. Last year’s 419
homicides were the lowest since 1962, when the city began
keeping comparable records. As of Oct. 6, killings are running
25 percent below 2012.  Lhota this week reminded voters of the city’s blemished
past in a commercial titled “Can’t Go Back.” Images of
rioters, frightened residents and a vagrant sprawled outside a
pornographic movie theater flash by as a narrator says de Blasio
offers a “recklessly dangerous agenda on crime.”  ‘Fear-Mongering’  Lhota’s message is “fear-mongering” that “misses 20
years of progress we’ve made across a number of different mayors
and police commissioners,” de Blasio said today on WCBS radio.
The next mayor needs to build on the strengths of “the best-trained police force on earth” and fix its relationship with
minority communities, the department’s “most consistent problem
in recent years,” he said.  The first task for the commissioner in 2014 is to train
police to modify stop-and-frisk tactics and learn to work with a
new federal monitor appointed by a judge to ensure that police
don’t violate anyone’s rights, said Jeremy Travis, president of
 Manhattan ’s John Jay College of Criminal Justice.  De Blasio today listed Bratton and Banks as “two people I
would absolutely interview very seriously,” among others.  Bratton, 66, served as Boston police commissioner before
arriving in New York in 1994 to lead the NYPD. He resigned 27
months later after his relationship with Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani 
soured.  ‘Potentially’ Bratton  Bratton “wrestled with the same problems as ours in Los
Angeles,” Travis said. “He had to deal with a court-ordered
federal monitor, the need to improve police-community relations,
and he brought crime rates down.”  Bratton, who currently runs a consulting firm, declined
requests for an interview. After an Oct. 2 speech in Manhattan,
he told reporters at Capital New York that he’s been advising de
Blasio and “potentially” would be interested in another run as
commissioner.  Banks, 50, a 27-year veteran of the department, led its
Community Affairs Bureau before becoming chief. He’s “a rising
star, very well respected in and out of the department,” Travis
said. “He’s sophisticated on the delicate issues involving the
need for counter-terrorism surveillance and community trust.”  Delores Jones-Brown, a former New Jersey prosecutor and a
professor at John Jay, said an appointment of Banks, who is
black, would help repair relationships with minorities. Banks
declined requests for an interview.  Putting Pressure  The commissioner will be responsible for a $4.7 billion
budget and inherit a department that’s become more sophisticated
and technologically equipped than the force Lhota worked with as
deputy mayor in the Giuliani administration from 1994 to 2001.  Giuliani’s chief public-safety innovation, which Bratton
oversaw, was a computerized system for mapping, categorizing and
time-stamping crimes to begin managing problem neighborhoods.
Since the program, called CompStat, took effect in 1994, major
crimes have dropped about 74 percent as jail populations fell.  “The decades-long trend down puts pressure on the next
mayor to keep it going or at least sustain it,” said  Michael
Jacobson , former director of the Vera Institute of Justice, a
national policy-research group, who was Giuliani’s commissioner
of corrections. “No one is going to take their eyes off the
issue -- it’s just too big, too important, too political, too
high profile to let this backslide.”  Outreach Needed  Bloomberg and Kelly have attributed much of the drop in
crime to stop-and-frisk. Yet the tactic has come at a cost, with
about 90 percent of the stops yielding no evidence of a crime,
said Jones-Brown.  “Stop-and-frisk criminalizes a whole generation of black,
Latino and Muslim men,” she said. “There needs to be outreach
by the next commissioner to let the community know that the
police don’t think they are all criminals.”  Richard Aborn, president of the Citizens Crime Commission,
a nonprofit advocacy group, said crime has continued to go down
even as police have reduced their stops. That shows that other
crime-fighting tactics can be more effective, legal and less
divisive, he said.  The path to driving crime even lower lies in prevention by
identifying the less than 1 percent of the population who are
society’s most violent offenders, said David Kennedy, a de
Blasio adviser who teaches crime prevention at John Jay.  In one program Kelly began a year ago, called Operation
Crew Cut, 300 detectives use social media to target and confront
small local, loosely organized gangs known as street crews that
are mostly centered in public housing. Police say they account
for about 30 percent of shootings in the city.  Bloomberg has credited the program with helping to achieve
the record-low homicides this year, including three weeks since
the program started during which the city experienced no
killings at all. Bloomberg, 71, founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, is legally barred from
running for a fourth term.  “The next mayor can build on what is already a record of
success,” Kennedy said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  