-- Debts Keep Water Firms Off-Limits for Politicians: U.K. Credit
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-10-18T10:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/debts-keep-water-firms-off-limits-for-politicians-u-k-credit.html
The  debt mountain  at U.K. water
companies is their best defense against politicians seeking to
cut the cost of living.  The Labour opposition, which has pledged to freeze gas and
electricity prices for 20 months if it wins the 2015 general
election, may be wary of imposing a similar cap on highly
leveraged water businesses, according to Lakis Athanasiou, a
utilities analyst at Agency Partners LLP. Water companies have
debt-to-equity ratios as high as 80 percent and rely on
borrowings to keep infrastructure intact.  “I really can’t see them going after the water industry,”
Athanasiou said in a phone interview. “Because they are highly
leveraged structures, they need masses of debt, not just for
expansion but for replacement of  existing debt. ”  United Utilities Group Plc, the biggest publicly traded
U.K. water company, has net debt to earnings almost twice that
of SSE Plc, one of the Big Six power companies, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The extra yield investors demand to own its
bonds maturing in 2028 instead of similar maturity government
debt has fallen 26 basis points this month to 325 basis points.
The spread on  Severn Trent Plc (SVT)  2026 bonds has dropped 8 basis
points to 103.  Polls  give  Ed Miliband ’s  Labour Party  a lead of about 5
percentage points over  David Cameron ’s Conservatives, which plan
to curb gas and electricity bills by simplifying tariffs.
 Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service say a price
freeze could push up financing costs for energy companies.  ‘More Vulnerable’  “The U.K.’s water companies are significantly more
vulnerable to shocks -- of the Miliband variety or anything
else,” said Andrew Lyddon, a Schroder Investment Management
Ltd. fund manager. “At these high levels of leverage, a
business will have little ability to withstand any kind of
shock.”  In the past six years a series of debt-funded acquisitions
of water companies by financial institutions seeking stable,
regulated returns has driven up borrowings at the utilities.  Equity in companies has slumped from 42.5 percent of their
funding in 2006 to 30 percent today, with several as low as 20
percent, raising questions about their sustainability,  Jonson
Cox , chairman of regulator Ofwat, said in March.  Net debt at United Utilities was 6.31 times earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization in the year ended
March and the second-largest publicly traded U.K. water company,
Severn Trent, was about 5.62 times, according to figures
compiled by Bloomberg. SSE’s ratio was 3.20 times. Centrica Plc,
the biggest energy supplier to households, had debt 1.1 times
earnings in 2012, the latest available annual period.  Capital-Intensive  Severn Trent and United Utilities declined to comment on
their debt or political intervention when contacted by phone. 
Thames Water Utilities Ltd., a unit of Kemble Water Holdings
Ltd., had a net debt to regulated-assets value of 79 percent in
March 2012 compared with 72.7 percent in March 2009, according
to Moody’s. At Kelda Group Ltd., the parent of Yorkshire Water
Services, the ratio has risen to 81.7 percent in March last year
from 66.2 percent in March 2009.  “They have so much debt because these businesses are very
capital-intensive and they’ve had to fund a lot of investments;
debt is a lot cheaper than equity,” Andrew Moulder, a senior
utilities analyst at Creditsights Inc., said by phone. “I
wouldn’t expect that you would get a government intervening to
try to cut water bills.”  Debt-Funding  This borrowing is set to continue after Ofwat raised
assumed debt levels in a price review, according to Impax Asset
Management Group Plc investment manager Simon Gottelier.  “It is prepared to let the utilities take on even more
debt given its view that  interest rates  will remain low for a
prolonged period,” he said. “High levels of ‘allowed’ debt
within the industry-wide tariff and cost of capital calculation
suggest that debt-funding to the industry is here to stay.”  With water and sewage costing households 388 pounds ($629)
on average this year compared with 1,279 pounds for gas and
power in 2012, according to  Department of Energy and Climate
Change  data, the water industry has escaped political scrutiny
as the squeeze on  living standards  emerges as a key election
battleground.  Thames Water’s plan to raise bills for 14 million clients
in the London area by about 8 percent a year was rejected by
Ofwat two days ago as too high.  The industry needs to borrow for investment at a rate of
more than 20 billion pounds ($32 billion) every five years,
Ofwat says.  “Spending on water is a necessity -- it isn’t a feel-good
spend like renewables,” Athanasiou said. The U.K. “doesn’t
want to end up paying for it. Government, Ofwat and political
parties understand fully that they can’t upset debt holders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  