-- Dutch Insurance Companies Face Solvency Test Before EU Peers
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-10-18T10:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/dutch-insurance-companies-face-solvency-test-before-eu-peers.html
Dutch life insurers, including  ING
Groep NV (INGA)  and  Delta Lloyd NV (DL) , face tests of their financial
strength that could allow regulators to block dividend payments
starting next year under new proposals.  Large and medium-sized life insurers will have their
ability to withstand shocks relating to stock markets, real
estate or  interest rates  and other risks tested beginning Jan.
1, according to draft regulations  published  today by Dutch
Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem.  The Netherlands is pushing ahead with the plans before the
Europe-wide introduction of Solvency II rules on capital
buffers, scheduled to come into force in 2016 at the earliest.
Revenue and profitability of Dutch life insurers, which had 384
billion euros ($522 billion) in invested assets in 2012, is
under pressure as a housing market slump and competition from
bank products cut demand for life insurance products,
Dijsselbloem said in August.  “The Dutch  insurance industry , and life insurers in
particular, have to deal with a number of coinciding challenges
and problems,” Dijsselbloem said today. “I see no reason to
wait with the introduction of risk-based supervision on solvency
until Solvency II is implemented.”  Under the Dutch plans, the central bank would have the
power to prohibit a financially weaker insurer from paying
dividends and instead use the funds to strengthen equity.  Consumer Faith  Consumers’ faith in the industry has also been hurt by
unit-linked products sold in the past, Dijsselbloem said in
August, while profitability has been eroded by low interest
rates, depressing investment returns. Gross written premiums for
individual life insurance products dropped to 11 billion euros
in 2012 from 17.6 billion euros in 2007, according to data from
the  Dutch Association of Insurers , which represents 95 percent
of the market.  “The Dutch Association of Insurers doubts the purpose,
necessity and timing of the regulation,” it said in a  statement 
today. “By opting for a national regime now, Dutch insurers may
be placed in an adverse competitive position compared to foreign
competitors in attracting capital.”  Solvency II, intended to harmonize the way insurers in
 Europe  allocate capital against their risks, was originally
scheduled for 2012. It has been delayed several times over
issues such as the treatment of long-term guarantees and may now
be implemented on Jan. 1, 2016 with a transitional period.  Interested parties have until Nov. 21 to comment on the
proposed Dutch regulation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  