-- Four Questions House Republicans Should Answer
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-18T13:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/the-four-questions-house-republicans-should-answer.html
The crisis in  Washington  is over --
for now. Yet who could possibly have confidence in this
Congress? Or, to put a finer point on it, confidence in the
Republicans of this Congress? Not even their  own supporters  seem
to have much. The party’s appetite for brinkmanship has  cut  the
nation’s growth, raised its borrowing costs (and thus the
deficit), pummeled  consumer confidence  and made a mockery of the
U.S. government.  Any time a political party causes so much damage, it gives
rise to questions -- questions better asked, if not answered,
after the heat of the crisis has passed. Here are a few.  -- Who’s in charge?  We’re not taunting; we honestly don’t know. Republican
Representative Charlie Dent of  Pennsylvania   told  the Washington
Post, “There are at least 180 or 190 members who are part of
the governing wing of the House GOP conference.” In other
words: There is no governing majority in the House, where 218
votes are needed to pass legislation.  Granted, governing coalitions can shift from vote to vote,
but House Speaker John Boehner has been unable to maintain a
viable majority relying on fractious Republicans alone. In
pursuit of partisan unity, however, he executed a calamitous
strategy that he had publicly opposed, bringing the U.S. to the
brink of default either to appease his Tea Party colleagues or
to encourage them to see the error of their ways. (Come to think
of it, that’s a good question, too: Mr. Speaker, which was it?)  -- What do you want?  Presuming you can form a functional majority, what would
you do with it? The government shutdown began with a demand to
defund Obamacare, shifted to vague demands about debt and, at
the eleventh hour, included a (comical if it hadn’t been so
cruel)  demand that  congressional staff members pay for their own
health care.  Yes, yes, we have read the  party platform  -- most of it,
anyway -- and about the so-called  Williamsburg Accord , and your
list of what you wanted in exchange for agreeing to raise the
debt limit. That was  a good one . But politics is all about
priorities. What’s your top one? Or two? And then:  -- What are you willing to do to get it?  House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan has lamented the
“bleak future” the nation faces without overhauling
entitlements. Other Republicans speak in more apocalyptic terms
about the national debt. Yet it can be hard to identify any
concessions you are willing to make to forestall this grim
vision. What are they?  Not everyone enters politics eager to compromise, and  many 
Republican voters don’t like it. Yet politics is impossible
without compromise -- especially when, as now, there is divided
government. Which leads, finally, to our last question:  -- Do you really want to go through all this again in a few
months?  Didn’t think so. Us neither.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 