-- The Winning Case Against Megabanks
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2013-10-18T14:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/the-winning-case-against-megabanks.html
There continues to be a forceful
economic debate about the cost of financial companies that are
regarded -- by officials and by credit markets -- as “too big
to fail.”  There is no doubt that, during the severe crisis of fall
2008, the executives running these companies felt intense
pressure and that responsible officials felt these institutions
required huge amounts of government support.  The question is: What has really changed since September
2008, when Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley became
bank holding companies, giving them better access to funding
from the Federal Reserve? Or since October 2008, when the first
injections of new capital were provided to banks that faced big
potential losses? Or since November 2008, when Citigroup Inc.
received a big additional dollop of support (mostly in the form
of downside guarantees)?  There are three responses from the big banks that were ably
represented this week at an Intelligence Squared debate in New
York. ( The topic  was “Break Up the Big Banks.” I was in favor
of the motion, supporting the ideas of Richard Fisher, president
of the Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas ; our side received 49
percent of the final audience vote. Opponents got 39 percent,
with the rest of the public undecided.)  The banks’ first argument is that the Dodd-Frank financial-reform legislation of 2010 fixed the problem. This is an ironic
stand for them to take, given how hard they worked to weaken the
legislation and that they continue to try to delay its
implementation in every way possible.  Orderly Resolution  One of our opponents in the debate, Doug Elliott, a fellow
at the Brookings Institution, suggested that we are a “couple
of years” away from being able to manage the collapse of a
global megabank in an orderly fashion. Given that the insolvency
of any one of these entities would have to be handled through a
cross-border resolution mechanism (sharing losses across
countries) and that such a mechanism is a political
impossibility, I would suggest “never” is a more realistic
timeline.  Our other debate opponent, Clearing House Association
President Paul Saltzman, argued that the “living wills”
process has forced banks to simplify and become smaller, making
them easier to resolve if necessary. That is the intent of the
legislation, but Fisher and I couldn’t think of a single
instance in which the living wills have made a significant
difference.  In fact, the living wills submitted by the banks to the Fed
in the first round were deemed inadequate.  The megabanks’ second argument is that they need to be at
their current scale to maintain the productivity and efficiency
of the broader economy. This is hard to believe. The best work
on the topic, by  Andrew Haldane  and his colleagues at the Bank
of England, finds no economies of scale and scope in the
megabanks, once the correct adjustment is made to account for
the subsidies they receive.  Our largest banks have scaled up enormously in the past 20
years. What improvements in service have you experienced, as a
retail or corporate customer, during this period? As one member
of the audience pointed out, if  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  (the
biggest U.S. bank by assets) is really so great, why isn’t it
the low-cost provider of mortgages in New York, and why does it
-- in his view -- have trouble conducting even simple
international transactions at low cost? It isn’t that great at
managing large complex derivatives positions, either, to judge
by the bank’s admission of market manipulation this week.  Subsidy Dispute  For their third argument, the big banks insist they receive
no implicit subsidies, an assertion they say is buttressed by a
slew of industry-sponsored studies (some by employees and others
by academics). But the best independent work on this topic shows
the exact opposite: The subsidies were very high during the
crisis and remain substantial today.  When the pressure comes back, as it always does, will big
banks again seek and receive support?  Look at their political access. In September, JPMorgan
Chairman Jamie Dimon sought and received a meeting with Attorney
General Eric Holder to discuss the terms of a potential legal
settlement of myriad allegations. According to the Justice
Department, no chief executive officer in recent memory has been
accorded such access.  If  Dimon’s bank  didn’t have $4 trillion in assets (measured
using international accounting standards), but rather a much
more moderate $250 billion or $500 billion, do you think he
would have the same access?  David Meister, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
head of enforcement,  recently referred  to JPMorgan’s actions in
the infamous London Whale transaction as “dumping a gargantuan,
record-setting, volume of swaps virtually all at once,
recklessly ignoring the obvious dangers to legitimate pricing
forces.”  Risk management failed at every level -- both within the
corporate bureaucracy and among the board of directors. The
primary consequence has been fines that impose costs on
JPMorgan’s shareholders, but they do very little to change
incentives and reduce the capacity for taking reckless risks on
a macroeconomic scale.  Regulators and prosecutors have gone very easy on
management and have avoided requiring any significant structural
changes, precisely because they are concerned about the
potential impact on the economy. It is safe to assume that
regional banks, let alone community banks, wouldn’t be treated
the same way. The many different forms of protection and
subsidies enjoyed by the big banks are a major reason that the
playing field has become so tilted against smaller financial
companies.  JPMorgan Chase is simply too big.  (Simon Johnson, a professor at the MIT Sloan School of
Management as well as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, is  co-author  of “White House
Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 