-- ECB’s Nowotny Says USD to Remain Most Important Currency
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-10-18T11:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/ecb-s-nowotny-says-usd-to-remain-most-important-currency.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny said the debate about the debt
ceiling in the U.S. hasn’t threatened the dollar’s role as the
leading global currency.  “The dollar will remain the most important currency in the
world, not least because the American capital market is the
biggest in the world,” Nowotny said at a panel discussion in
Vienna today. “The U.S. will hear alarm bells ringing once the
oil price isn’t quoted in U.S. dollars anymore, but we are very
far from that point.”  President  Barack Obama  signed a bill to fund the U.S.
government and lift the debt limit early yesterday, ending a
shutdown that began Oct. 1 and has taken $24 billion out of the
world’s largest economy, according to Standard & Poor’s. While
the measure puts government workers back to work, it suspends
the debt limit only through Feb. 7, shifting the focus to a new
series of deadlines.  “The long-term uncertainty remains,” Nowotny said. “One
knows that this bill only lasts for a relatively short period of
time. This isn’t a significant improvement of the situation.”  While the dollar will remain the world’s main currency, the
uncertainty about the debt ceiling forces investors to look for
alternatives, Nowotny said.  Chinese Attempts  “There’s an attempt to diversify,” he said. “The euro is
gaining significance as a currency reserve, about 25 percent of
the world’s currency reserves are being held in euros, with an
upward trend. In addition, there are serious attempts to
establish the Chinese currency as a trading currency.”  The ECB and the People’s Bank of China agreed last week to
establish a bilateral currency swap line, bolstering access to
trade finance in the euro area and strengthening the
international use of the  yuan . Britain announced this week it
will allow Chinese banks to set up branches as it seeks to
establish  London  as a hub for offshore yuan trading.  Nowotny also said that the 17-nation euro-area economy,
which emerged from its longest-ever recession in the second
quarter, will gather pace next year. The ECB predicts the
currency bloc’s economy will shrink 0.4 percent this year before
growing 1 percent in 2014.  “We expect an exceptional strong upward boost in
 Germany ,” he said. “We are quite optimistic for 2014.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  