-- ECB Publishes Procedures for Emergency Liquidity Assistance
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-10-18T13:44:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/ecb-publishes-procedures-for-emergency-liquidity-assistance.html
The  European Central Bank  lifted the
lid on one of its most secretive emergency tools as it revealed
how banks can remain afloat in times of crises.  The Frankfurt-based central bank published the rules
underlying its Emergency Liquidity Assistance program today on
its  website . “These rules describe in detail the steps to be
taken and the information to be provided to the Governing
Council in order for it to assess” whether the provision of ELA
“interferes with the objectives and tasks of the Eurosystem,”
the ECB said.  Under ELA programs, national central banks in the euro area
can provide financial institutions in their countries with
liquidity against collateral that doesn’t qualify for regular
ECB operations. Central banks charge more for ELA funds than the
ECB does in its regular refinancing operations.  The ECB said responsibility for the provision of ELA lies
with the national central banks, which means that costs and
risks arising from those operations are incurred by those
institutions. At the same time, the council can restrict the
operations if they endanger financial stability and will take
such a decision with a majority of two-thirds, according to the
statement.  National central banks need to inform the ECB at least two
business days after ELA funds are provided about the
counterparty, the value and maturity, the collateral and the
 interest rate  on the operations. Information about the systemic
implications and the short- and medium-term solvency of the
recipient bank are also needed, it said.  Greek Crisis  ELA funding moved to the center of attention during
 Greece ’s debt crisis, when the ECB stopped lending to some Greek
banks to limit its risks amid speculation about an exit of the
country from the monetary union.  Greek banks’ reliance on ELA fell to 8.96 billion euros in
September from 11.7 billion in August, the country’s central
bank said on Oct. 14.  If ELA funds provided exceed 500 million euros for one
bank, national central banks must inform the ECB “as early as
possible prior to the extension of the intended assistance,” it
said.  If more than 2 billion euros are supplied, the council will
assess the risks related to granting the funds and “may then
decide to set a threshold and not to object to intended ELA
operations that are below that threshold and conducted within a
pre-specified short period of time,” according to the
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  