-- Ecuador Upgraded to B at Fitch on Forecast for Faster Growth
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2013-10-18T21:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/ecuador-upgraded-to-b-at-fitch-on-forecasts-for-faster-growth.html
Ecuador’s credit rating was
increased one step by  Fitch Ratings  on the outlook for faster
economic growth amid increasing financial stability.  Fitch raised the long-term foreign debt rating to B, five
levels below investment grade, from B-, the company said today
in a statement. The outlook for the rating, the highest Fitch
has ever assigned to the Andean country, is stable.  “Ecuador’s upgrade reflects the country’s continued
healthy growth performance, monetary and financial stability
underpinned by dollarization and a steady easing of external and
fiscal financing risks,” Fitch said in the report. The country
is also benefiting from favorable  oil prices  and the
availability of financing from  China  and multilateral lenders.  The South American country, a member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, has relied on windfall oil
profits, loans from China and funding from the nation’s public
pension system to help finance spending since defaulting on $3.2
billion of international bonds in 2008 and 2009.  The B rating puts Ecuador in line with  Ghana , Lebanon and
the  Dominican Republic  and is the Andean nation’s third rating
upgrade by Fitch since 2009 when the country exited default by
buying back more than 90 percent of bonds it had stopped paying.
The rating is still the third-lowest among 17 Central and South
American countries covered by Fitch.  The yield on Ecuador’s dollar bonds due in 2015 fell four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.11 percent at 4:20
p.m. in  New York , Bloomberg data show. Bond yields have dropped
167 basis points this year, compared with a 132 basis point
average increase for emerging-market sovereign bonds tracked by
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBIG index .  China Loans  Ecuador obtained a $1.2 billion, four-year loan from China
in August and expects an additional $400 million in credit in
both 2014 and 2015, according to the  Finance Ministry . President
 Rafael Correa  has signed loan agreements worth about $10.8
billion from the Asian nation since the default five years ago.  In return for the cash infusion, Ecuador has since pledged
about half its monthly crude production to pay down its debt,
granted China mining concessions to explore for copper and
offered Chinese state-controlled companies concessions to drill
for oil in the country’s Amazon. Correa has used the funds to
help triple public spending since he took office in 2007.  Public outlays, forecast by the Finance Ministry to
increase 7.8 percent this year, are likely to continue driving
growth, Fitch said. Gross domestic product could rise 3.8
percent this year and 4.2 percent in each of the following two
years the rating company said.  The Finance Ministry expects the economy to expand 4.05
percent this year. Ecuador is rated by Moody’s Investors Service
at Caa1 and B by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  