-- Energy Future’s Reduced Earnings to Sap Credit Recovery Values
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-10-18T19:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/energy-future-s-reduced-earnings-to-sap-credit-recovery-values.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp.’s
creditors may be carving up less of the Texas energy giant in a
bankruptcy reorganization after it cut the earnings forecast for
its deregulated unit earlier this week.  The former TXU Corp. reduced its 2015 profit forecast for
its Texas Competitive Electric Holdings unit by almost 20
percent on lower expectations for natural  gas prices , compared
with earnings projections six months ago, the Dallas-based
company said in an Oct. 15 regulatory filing. The revised
outlook may cut how much debtholders receive after a Chapter 11
restructuring, which may come as soon as next month, said Peter Thornton, an analyst for KDP Investment Advisors Inc.  Texas’ largest electricity provider has been in
negotiations with creditor groups in an attempt to devise a plan
on reducing Energy Future’s $43.6 billion of debt and how to
apportion ownership of the company in bankruptcy. KKR & Co., TPG
Capital and Goldman Sachs Capital Partners took it private six
years ago in the biggest leveraged buyout in history.  “We’ve lowered our expectations for adjusted earnings
based on management’s revised forecasts,” Thornton said in a
telephone interview. “Part of that is due to lower power prices
and gas prices.”  Senior creditors at Energy Future will now recover 53
percent, Thornton wrote in an Oct. 17 research note. That’s down
from a 56 percent recovery he estimated in August.  Bonds Decline  Texas Competitive’s $1.23 billion of 15 percent, second-lien notes due in April 2021 traded at 22.3 cents on the dollar
at 11:18 a.m. in  New York , down from a high this year of 36.5
cents in January, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The
unit’s $15.4 billion  term loan  was quoted at 67.2 cents on the
dollar, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Energy Future spokesman  Allan Koenig  declined to comment on
the company’s recent financial disclosures.  Texas Competitive projects $1.64 billion of earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in 2015 when
adjusting for natural gas prices, according to the October
filing. That’s down from an earlier forecast of $2.04 billion,
according to an April 15 release. The reduction is due to lower
expected gas and power prices.  Energy Future released financial projections for the Texas
Competitive unit, which owns Luminant, a power generator, and
TXU Energy, an electricity retail seller, as part of a
disclosure of its efforts to reach a pre-negotiated bankruptcy
pact with its creditors. Senior lenders are seeking a Chapter 11
filing before the company makes $270 million in interest
payments Nov. 1 to junior bondholders.  Ebitda Impact  Texas Competitive’s earnings are “quite sensitive” to
natural gas prices, according to Shalini Mahajan, an analyst for
 Fitch Ratings , who said a $1 change in those prices may affect
the unit’s 2015 earnings by $450 million to $500 million. Since
the company’s April filing, “gas prices have come down, so
obviously you see that impact on Ebitda,” she said.  Natural gas prices for 2014 dropped 24 cents, or 5.7
percent, to $3.99 per million British thermal units today from
$4.23 at the end of the first quarter, according to the
Bloomberg Fair Value Curve. Gas prices for 2015 fell 16 cents,
or 3.7 percent, to $4.14 per million Btu from $4.30 at the end
of the first quarter.  Gas costs set energy prices in the Texas market because
plants fueled by it usually provide the marginal power needed to
meet demand.  Weak gas prices and a glut of cheap wind power being
delivered by new transmission lines are keeping a lid on Texas
 wholesale electricity rates . Texas power prices in the hottest
months in 2013, when generators pocket the bulk of their
profits, were 12.3 percent lower in 2013 compared with 2012,
according to CreditSights Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  