-- Letta Says EU Threatened by Tea Parties of Europe in 2014 Vote
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-10-18T11:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/letta-says-eu-threatened-by-tea-parties-of-europe-in-2014-vote.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
said he commiserated with  Barack Obama  about the debt-ceiling
standoff and told the U.S. president that Europe may be about to
have a  Tea Party  problem of its own.  Elections for the European Parliament in May will be
contested by “populist parties” resembling the small-government branch of the  Republican Party  that threatened to
trigger a U.S. default, Letta said late yesterday in Washington
after meeting Obama at the White House.  “I reacted to everything Obama told me by telling him all
of the difficulties that we’ll have in Europe in May,” Letta
said to reporters. “The message from the U.S. is problems don’t
get resolved if you follow the Tea Party’s logic, you just have
more problems created. It’s a message I definitely endorse.”  Europe ’s established parties are bracing for a challenge in
May from upstart, euro-skeptic movements from France to  Italy  to
the U.K. Incumbents are facing public wrath as the economic
slump erodes wealth and accentuates differences in things like
unemployment rates within the European Union and the 17-nation
euro bloc.  Marine Le Pen’s National Front, which wants France to limit
immigration and withdraw from the euro, won a local by-election
on Oct. 13. In Italy, Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement garnered
a quarter of the votes in a general election in February. Gains
by U.K. Independence Party leader Nigel Farage prompted European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  to warn that the anti-EU group
could be the country’s biggest force after the May vote. UKIP
wants Britain to quit the EU.  Mainstream Suffering  “We have seen that, outside of  Germany , most of the
mainstream parties are suffering,”  Marc Ostwald , a strategist
at Monument Securities Ltd. in London, said in a phone
interview. “There is not a shadow of a doubt that some of the
more extremist parties are doing very well.”  The backlash against the EU contrasts with a message from
EU leaders that the sovereign debt crisis battle has been won.
 Mario Monti , who preceded Letta as Italian premier, called
attention to the issue in September 2012 after debt-market
speculation had started to abate, saying the anti-EU sentiment
cropping up was “paradoxical and sad.”  Italian 10-year bond yields were little changed at 4.2
percent at 12:20 p.m. in Rome. That’s down from more than 7
percent in late 2011, thanks in part to budget rigor and
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s promise in July
2012 to do whatever it takes to save the euro.  Obama thwarted the Tea Party this week by getting an
increase in the debt ceiling from a Republican-controlled  House
of Representatives  without giving in to demands. The defeat
exposed the Tea Party to criticism by factions from within the
Republican Party, including the group’s business lobby.  ‘Far Worse’  “Europe’s populists are far worse than the Tea Party,”
Fredrik Erixon, director of the European Centre for
International Political Economy in Brussels, said in an e-mailed
reply to questions. “They have no coherent or ideological view
on what they want to do with the economy.”  Letta, 47, is a career politician who represents Italy’s
labor union-backed  Democratic Party . He was appointed in April
after two months of gridlock in a fractious parliament, becoming
the country’s second prime minister in a row without an election
victory to his credit. Monti, 70, was head of Milan’s Bocconi
University when he was appointed premier in November 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 