-- European Stocks Post Weekly Gain on U.S. Debt Agreement
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-10-18T16:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/european-stocks-post-weekly-gain-on-u-s-debt-agreement.html
European stocks  rallied for a second
week as Republicans and Democrats agreed to raise the U.S.
sovereign-debt ceiling and reopen the federal government.  Hargreaves Lansdown Plc climbed to the highest price since
its initial public offering in 2007, posting the best
performance on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index this week. Man Group
Plc jumped 10 percent after the world’s largest publicly traded
hedge-fund manager posted its first quarterly net inflows in two
years. PSA Peugeot Citroen slumped 13 percent as the company was
said to consider selling shares to increase its capital.  The Stoxx 600 advanced 2.2 percent to 318.47 this week. The
equity benchmark has climbed for seven consecutive days, its
longest winning streak this year. The gauge has risen 2.6
percent so far this month amid optimism that the  U.S. Congress 
would increase the limit before a deadline on Oct. 17. That
extended the  rally  this year to 14 percent.  “The last-minute deal was widely expected by the markets,
which was reflected in this week’s movements,” said Benedict Goette, chief executive officer of Compass Capital AG in Zurich,
which helps oversee about 700 million Swiss francs ($776
million). “We may see an extension of the benign dynamic we
currently seem to be in. The market will postpone any second
thought on the U.S. budget divide until its next deadline.”  National benchmark indexes advanced in every western-European market except  Iceland  this week.  Germany ’s DAX and
 France ’s CAC 40 rose 1.6 percent, while the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX) 
gained 2.1 percent.  U.S. Deal  In the U.S., President  Barack Obama  on Oct. 17 signed into
law a measure to extend the nation’s borrowing authority into
early 2014 and end the government shutdown that started Oct. 1.  Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago President  Charles Evans 
said late yesterday that the U.S. central bank should not begin
reducing the pace of its $85 billion of monthly asset purchases
because the government stopped publishing the data used to gauge
the economy’s health during the shutdown.  China’s economy  accelerated in the three months through
September with  gross domestic product  rising 7.8 percent from a
year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said today. The
world’s second-largest economy grew 7.7 percent and 7.5 percent
in the first and second quarters of this year. A separate
release today showed that  industrial production  advanced in
September by 10.2 percent, matching economists’ estimates.  Hargreaves Lansdown rallied 15 percent after the U.K.’s
biggest retail broker said assets under administration jumped 8
percent to a record 39.3 billion pounds ($64 billion) in the
three months through Sept. 30.  Man Group  Man Group jumped 10 percent. Sales of the company’s funds
totaled $4.1 billion in the third quarter, exceeding redemptions
of $3.4 billion. The $700 million inflow bucked the predictions
of analysts including Peter Lenardos of  RBC Capital Markets  in
 London , who had projected $500 million of outflows.  Royal Mail Plc increased 10 percent this week as retail
investors traded the shares for the first time on Oct. 15.  Bellway Plc surged 12 percent as the U.K. housebuilder said
annual profit rose 37 percent. Net income for the 12 months
through July climbed to 108.6 million pounds, or 89.3 pence a
share, from 79.3 million pounds a year earlier.  Peugeot declined 13 percent as people familiar with the
matter said the carmaker’s board will discuss increasing its
capital at a scheduled meeting on Oct. 22. Two of the people
said Peugeot may sell stakes to Dongfeng Motor Corp. and the
French government.  Outotec, Burberry  Outotec Oyj sank 16 percent, the worst weekly performance
on the Stoxx 600, after the supplier of smelters to mining
companies lowered its sales and profit forecasts for 2013. The
Finnish company forecast that it will generate no more than 2.1
billion euros ($2.9 billion) of revenue because its order intake
has declined in the first nine months of this year. Outotec had
predicted sales of as much as 2.3 billion euros.  Burberry Group Plc slipped 4.9 percent after saying Chief
Executive Officer Angela Ahrendts will leave for Apple Inc. The
company named Christopher Bailey as her successor.  Dassault Systemes SA (DSY)  fell 11 percent, its biggest weekly
slide in almost five years. The  software developer  whose clients
include Benetton Group SpA reported revenue of 496 million euros
in the third quarter, missing its own forecast of 520 million
euros. The company also said it may also reduce its projections
for the current quarter on Oct. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  