-- Ex-Boeing Procurement Officer Charged in Bid-Bribery Scheme
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-10-18T17:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/ex-boeing-procurement-officer-charged-in-bid-bribery-scheme-1-.html
A former  Boeing Co. (BA)  procurement
officer and three other people were indicted by a federal grand
jury and accused of engaging in a bribery and kickback scheme, a
prosecutor said.  The ex-procurement officer allegedly leaked nonpublic
information to bidders for contracts on military aircraft parts
in exchange for cash, the office of U.S. Attorney Richard
Callahan in St. Louis said in a statement.  The grand jury indicted former Boeing executive Deon
Anderson, Jeffrey Lavelle, who owned Everett, Washington-based
bidder J.L. Manufacturing, and an outside consultant for J.L.,
Robert Diaz. Boeing, based in Chicago, is the world’s biggest
plane maker.  “Anderson provided J.L. Manufacturing, though Lavelle and
Diaz, non-public competitor bid information and historical price
information in connection with one and more Boeing military
aircraft part purchase order requests for quotes” from May 2011
to April 2013, Callahan’s office said, citing the indictment.  Lavelle allegedly used that information as guidance for
about nine different bid requests submitted to Boeing, winning
seven contracts worth an aggregate of more than $2 million,
according to the U.S.  Mail Fraud  Diaz, 54, and Lavelle, 52, each face one count of mail
fraud and two counts of wire fraud, according to the indictment.
Anderson, 47, was charged with an additional wire fraud count,
together with William Boozer, owner of Santa Ana, California-based Globe Dynamics International Inc.  From November 2009 to February 2013, Boozer, 59, allegedly
paid Anderson for information used in preparing about 16 Globe
bids, winning seven contracts worth a total of more than $1.5
million.  Anderson is scheduled for arraignment later today before
U.S. Magistrate Judge Shirley Mensah.  His attorney, Nicholas Williams, declined to say how his
client will plead in a phone interview.  Diaz is represented by the St. Louis federal public
defender’s office. Lavelle’s lawyer, Eric Butts, didn’t
immediately reply to a voice-mail message seeking comment on the
charges. Attorney information for Boozer wasn’t immediately
available.  John Dern, a spokesman for Boeing, said he couldn’t
immediately comment on the indictment.  Each mail and wire fraud count carries a maximum punishment
of 20 years imprisonment and a $250,000 fine. The indictment was
returned on Oct. 2 and sealed that day.  The case is U.S. v. Anderson, 13-cr-00403, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Missouri (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the  Chicago  federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  