-- Ex-Madoff Workers, U.K. Branches, JPMorgan: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-10-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/ex-madoff-workers-u-k-branches-jpmorgan-compliance.html
Former employees of Bernard L.
Madoff who are on trial on charges they aided the convicted con
man’s $17 billion  Ponzi scheme  were unaware of the fraud and
were duped into helping him keep it going, lawyers told a jury.  Daniel Bonventre, 66, the operations chief who signed
checks for Madoff’s securities firm and worked with its general
ledger, was fooled by Madoff’s “depraved and pathological
lies,” and never knew about the fraud, Andrew Frisch, his
lawyer, said yesterday in his opening statement in federal court
in  New York .  In his guilty plea in 2009, Madoff said the market-making
and proprietary trading side of his firm was “legitimate”
while admitting he ran the scheme from the advisory business,
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC.  Annette Bongiorno, a 40-year Madoff employee who helped run
the investment advisory business, “never understood that she
was involved in a fraud,” her lawyer Roland Riopelle told the
jury yesterday in his opening statement.  The lawyers were the first among the defense to present
opening statements in the trial of the five ex-employees.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Matthew Schwartz Oct. 16 told
jurors that the defendants created millions of false, misleading
records, and became rich in the process. The three men and two
women on trial knew Madoff’s securities firm didn’t conduct real
trades and used money from earlier investors to pay off new
ones, the U.S. alleges.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain has said the trial
she’s overseeing may last five months.  For more, click here.  Compliance Report  Bailey Says U.K. Regulator Wants Limits on Foreign Bank Branches  Branches of foreign banks opening in the U.K. won’t be able
to take retail deposits unless they convince the regulator they
can be easily wound down in a crisis, said  Andrew Bailey , the
U.K.’s top banking supervisor.  Branches from banks based outside the European Union
“should stick to straightforward wholesale banking, of the type
that supports world trade and capital flows,” Bailey, the chief
executive officer of the Prudential Regulation Authority, told
an audience of banking executives in  London  yesterday.
“Resolution will be a key deciding factor in the PRA’s
judgments.”  The U.K. government said this week that branches of Chinese
banks would be approved for business in London. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the PRA will start talks with
Chinese banks later this year.  Bailey, deputy governor for prudential regulation at the
 Bank of England , said it is a “general policy, not a China
policy, and it is consistent with promoting the benefits of an
open world economy.”  Regulators around the world have encouraged banks to open
subsidiaries rather than branches since the financial crisis
because they have to comply with tougher capital and liquidity
rules. Branches are supervised by the regulator of the home
country of their parent bank.  Large U.K. Companies Get Up to 10 Years to Switch Auditor  U.K. antitrust regulators gave companies more time to seek
new bids for accounting work, saying that large corporations
must retender audits every 10 years.  The requirement will apply to companies in the FTSE 350
Index starting in the last quarter of 2014, the U.K.  Competition
Commission  said in a statement. The regulator also plans to
forbid clauses limiting a company’s choice of auditor to the top
four accounting firms.  The  Competition Commission  repeatedly backed away from
stricter measures during a two-year inquiry focused on KPMG LLP,
Deloitte LLP, Ernst & Young LLP and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
In February, the U.K. regulator said it was considering forcing
companies to change auditors, before proposing guidelines to
rebid work every five years in July. The European Union is also
working on new audit rules.  Under the Competition Commission’s new rules, companies
would be required to spell out when they next intend to hold a
tender process if five or more years have elapsed since the last
one.  European lawmakers voted in April on measures that would
have banks, insurers and listed companies change accountants
every 14 years, with an option for national authorities to
extend this to 25 years.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial
services chief, had proposed legislation that would have
mandated audit rotation every six years.  The legislation must be adopted by the full  parliament , and
approved by governments, before it can take effect.  Compliance Action  U.K. Banks May Face 100 Billion-Pound Capital Gap, Exane Says  U.K. lenders may face a 100 billion-pound ($161 billion)
capital shortage under a proposal by the country’s Prudential
Regulation Authority, which could force banks to postpone
dividends and depress their returns, according to Exane BNP
Paribas analysts.  Lenders would need to hold a fully loaded equity Tier 1
ratio of 13 percent over time should the regulator adopt its
proposal in full, the analysts, led by  Jonathan Pierce , wrote in
a note to clients yesterday. Banks will probably be given time
to build up the buffer, prompting a review of their liabilities,
the analysts said.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest mortgage
lender, is the only U.K. bank likely to reach the target by
2015, Exane said. While the PRA is unlikely to force other banks
to scale back their assets quickly or sell more stock to
investors, dividend payments are at risk, the analysts wrote.  CRU Steel Price Audit Finds ‘No Major Gaps’ Amid Global Scrutiny  CRU, the publisher of business information on the metals,
mining and fertilizer industries, completed a third-party audit
of its U.S. Midwest steel prices.  The indexes, which include hot- and cold-rolled coil, hot-dipped galvanized coil and plate price are the most widely used
in the world, London-based CRU said in an e-mailed statement.  The audit, by a “Big Four” firm, included an electronic
survey and site visits and found “no major gaps,” according to
CRU’s statement.  “At a time when some price reporting agencies have been
under attack and some are still under investigation, it is
crucial that companies like CRU continue to invest in both
excellent processes and third-party assessments of our work,”
Chief Operating Officer Fraser Murdoch said, according to
closely held CRU.  Interviews  Banker Bonus Link With Sales Disappearing, FCA’s Wheatley Says  The biggest banks in the U.K. are moving away from a
culture of linking sales to bonuses after a series of scandals
where products were improperly sold to consumers, the head of
the markets regulator said.  Martin Wheatley, chief executive officer of the Financial
Conduct Authority, made the remarks yesterday at a speech in
London. He described the proposal as “one of the most
significant steps forward for the U.K. banking industry since
2008.”  The FCA has been scrutinizing how bankers are rewarded
after lenders were forced to pay billions of pounds to
compensate customers who were sold payment-protection insurance
they didn’t need. U.K. banks have set aside about 15.5 billion
pounds ($25 billion) for PPI claims.  Allianz CEO Says New Regulation to Create Room for Acquisitions  Michael Diekmann, chief executive officer of  Allianz SE (ALV) 
said tougher financial regulation will create takeover
opportunities for  Europe ’s biggest insurer.  “If Solvency II and Basel III mean more capital, then it’s
hard for mutuals to get that,” Diekmann, 58, said in an
interview this week at Bloomberg headquarters in New York,
referring to mutuals’ customer-owned structure, which makes it
more difficult for them to raise funds. That’s why they may need
to find a buyer should they require a larger capital buffer
under Solvency II, the new risk-based rules for the industry
scheduled to be implemented in 2016, he said.  “We have a situation in most countries where you have
listed companies and mutual companies and there is a little bit
of an unequal playing field,” Diekmann said. “That gets
resolved through regulation.”  Allianz, based in Munich, acquired Turkish insurer  Yapi
Kredi Sigorta AS (YKSGR)  in March for 684 million euros ($932 million),
displacing  France ’s  Axa SA (CS)  as  Turkey ’s largest insurer.  Solvency II, intended to harmonize the way insurers in
Europe allocate capital against the risks they take, was
originally scheduled to come into force in 2012. It has been
delayed several times over and may now be implemented on Jan. 1,
2016 with a transitional period.  Comings and Goings  Dimon Said to Have Given Up Role at Bank Unit on OCC Request  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
stepped down as chairman of the bank’s main operating subsidiary
in July because of a recommendation by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  The agency asked for the change as part of an effort to
improve corporate governance at the company, said one of the
people, who asked not to be identified because discussions were
confidential. The move wasn’t punitive, that person said. Robert
Garsson, an OCC spokesman, declined to comment on the talks.  Dimon stepped down as chairman of the subsidiary July 1, a
person with direct knowledge of the move said on Oct. 3. When
asked about the situation during a conference call with
reporters last week, the CEO referred to talks with government
supervisors without specifying whether any request was made.  “We are in constant dialogue with our regulators regarding
how to strengthen our governance and controls,” he said on the
Oct. 11 call to discuss the bank’s earnings. “We thought this
board change we made was consistent with our regulators’ views
and governance for a banking subsidiary.”  The move didn’t affect Dimon’s titles as chairman and CEO
of the parent company.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey 
at   cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 