-- Ex-Penn State President Seeks to Halt Sandusky Suit Plans
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-10-18T21:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/ex-penn-state-president-seeks-to-halt-sandusky-suit-plans.html
Former  Pennsylvania  State University
President Graham Spanier is seeking to halt plans to file a
lawsuit against Louis Freeh, the former FBI director whose
university-commissioned probe placed Spanier at the center of a
cover-up of ex-football coach Jerry Sandusky’s sex abuse.  Spanier, who filed notice of plans to sue in July,  wants
to delay the case until after his criminal trial on cover-up
charges, according to the request filed today in state court in
Bellefonte, Pennsylvania. The court on Sept. 30 gave Spanier 20
days to file a complaint or have a judgment entered against him.
Lawyers for Spanier argued that failure to stay the case would
be “highly prejudicial” to him.  “Forcing Spanier to litigate these claims concurrently
with defending himself from the criminal charges pending against
him would cause prejudice to him in both actions,” Spanier’s
attorney Elizabeth Ainslie said in the filing.  Freeh concluded in a July 2012 report that Spanier, former
head football coach Joe Paterno, and two other senior school
officials hid critical facts surrounding Sandusky’s abuse.
Sandusky, a former assistant football coach, was sentenced in
October 2012 for sexually abusing boys over a 15-year-period.
Spanier faces trial on charges of endangering the welfare of
children, conspiracy and perjury for his role in the cover-up. A
trial date hasn’t been scheduled.  The claims in the planned complaint relate to slander,
libel or defamation, according to a cover sheet for the five-page notice filed July 11.  The case is Spanier v. Freeh, 2013-2707, Court of Common
Pleas of Centre County (Bellefonte)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  