-- Fat Duck’s Heston Blumenthal Wins Chef of Decade Award
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-10-18T08:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/fat-duck-s-heston-blumenthal-wins-chef-of-decade-award.html
Heston Blumenthal, known for his
innovative gastronomy at the Fat Duck, was named U.K. Chef of
the Decade in the Observer Food Monthly Awards.  Angela Hartnett created canapes representing the signature
dishes of each of the 10 nominees for the accolade, including
Blumenthal’s Snail Porridge and Jamie Oliver’s Fish Pie.  “I am extremely proud of my team and the continuous
development and energy they bring to our industry,” he said in
an e-mailed release. “It’s been quite an incredible decade and
I can’t wait for the next 10 years.”  L’Enclume was named best restaurant, and Tonkotsu won for
cheap eats in the awards, presented last night at a party at the
Freemasons’ Hall. Hawksmoor won for best place to drink; Yotam
Ottolenghi and Sami Tamimi’s “ Jerusalem ” for best book.  The Fat Duck team created edible trophies layered with dark
and white chocolate, filled with a passion-fruit caramel. The
event was attended by chefs, restaurateurs and food writers. The
Observer Food Monthly Awards were founded in 2003.  The  judging panel  this year included chefs Sat Bains,
Angela Hartnett, Tom Kerridge, Tom Kitchin, Bruno Loubet, Nathan
Outlaw, Simon Rogan and Mitch Tonks, as well as food writers
such as Nigel Slater and the restaurateur Russell Norman.  The winners:  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include the  New York  and  London   weekend
guides ,  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,  Lewis Lapham  on
history,  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene
Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 