-- Fed’s Stein Says Regulators Need Resolve on Bank Capital
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-10-18T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/fed-s-stein-says-regulators-need-resolve-on-bank-capital.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Jeremy Stein  said U.S. regulators need to remain firm in forcing banks
to raise capital in times of stress.  Regulators need an “institutional will” as well as legal
authority, Stein said in a speech prepared for delivery in
 Boston  today. “It is incumbent on us as regulators to do all
that we can to develop both the intellectual case, and the
institutional resolve, to be able to push back with equal force
when the time comes.”  Policy makers and academics are debating whether monetary
policy as well as regulatory controls should be used in response
to financial stability concerns such as asset-price bubbles in
the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, Stein said. While that
question hasn’t been settled, more forceful action by regulators
is clearly needed, he said.  For example, a banking firm facing a shortage of capital in
time of crisis might prefer to shrink its size to meet
regulatory capital levels rather than sell stock that dilutes
existing shareholders, “even though the latter is more
desirable from the perspective of aggregate credit provision,”
Stein said at a National Bureau of Economic Research conference.  Stein didn’t address the current economy or current
financial market conditions in his prepared remarks.  Stein warned in February that some credit markets, such as
corporate debt, were showing signs of excessive risk-taking, and
said the Fed should be open to using policy tools such as
 interest rates  to safeguard stability. “We are seeing a fairly
significant pattern of reaching-for-yield behavior emerging in
corporate credit,” Stein said then.  Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City President Esther George
has dissented at every Fed policy meeting this year, warning the
bond-buying program and near zero rates risk creating imbalances
in the economy and financial markets and pushing up long-term
inflation expectations.  Stein, a former Harvard University economist who
specializes in banking and finance, joined the Fed in May 2012
for a term lasting through January of 2018.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  