-- Dudley Says Wind-Down Plans Don’t Solve Too Big to Fail
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-10-18T20:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/fed-s-dudley-says-resolution-plans-don-t-solve-too-big-to-fail.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said that government plans to wind
down large financial firms, while helping reduce the odds of a
taxpayer bailout, don’t eliminate the need for increased capital
and oversight of financial institutions.  “These two paths -- reducing the financial-stability costs
associated with the failure of a systemically important
financial firm versus applying tougher capital and liquidity
standards for such firms that reduce the probability of failure
-- are complements not substitutes,” Dudley said in a speech in
 Washington  today.  “We need to keep pushing forward with both approaches in
order to make the financial system more resilient and robust,”
he said at a conference on how to handle failing banks, which
was sponsored by the Federal Reserve Board of Governors and the
Richmond Fed.  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act requires large lenders to prepare
living wills that describe how they would be wound down in a
bankruptcy. Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  said at the
conference that the Dodd-Frank Act points to unassisted
bankruptcy as the “first and most preferable option.”  Even with a “resolution regime in place, we must recognize
that there still will be disruption to the financial system when
a large firm fails,” Dudley said. While a wind-down plan “is a
very useful tool that we should continue to develop, we should
view it as more preferable to prevent the failure” of the
systemically important financial institution.  ‘Adverse Effects’  When a financial company’s collapse presents “serious
adverse effects on financial stability,” the Dodd-Frank Act
provides for so-called orderly liquidation authority, where the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. could take over a failing
institution and liquidate it over time. Management would be
fired and losses forced on shareholders as well as creditors.  Regulators have more work to do to reduce the likelihood of
such failures, Dudley said.  “We need to do more to create incentives to force banks to
act sooner to steer away from impending icebergs -- cut capital
distributions earlier, raise new capital faster, restructure
businesses sooner, and restructure senior management and boards
of directors more radically when the firm is not performing
well,” Dudley said.  “For example, one approach might be to implement a long-term debt requirement in a way that enhances market
discipline,” he said.  There’s also work to be done to strengthen plans for
resolving firms, particularly for those with operations in
multiple countries, Dudley said.  “Implementing the resolution regime on a cross-border
basis remains one of the most significant challenges,” he said.
“We need to continue to work with foreign regulators to iron
out any issues ahead of time so that the resolution regime will
work well for global, systemically important firms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  