-- Fed’s Evans Says Rates Wrong Tool for Financial Stability
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   D a l t o n   B a r k e r
-- 2013-10-18T19:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/fed-s-evans-says-rate-policy-wrong-tool-for-financial-stability.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans , an advocate of record stimulus, said
the Fed shouldn’t abandon its unconventional policy and raise
the main  interest rate  to contain risks in the financial system.  “If more restrictive monetary policies were pursued to
generate higher interest rates, they would likely result in
higher  unemployment  and a sharp decline in asset prices, choking
the moderate recovery,” Evans said in a speech in Chicago
today. “Stepping away from otherwise appropriate monetary
policy to address potential financial stability risks would
degrade progress towards maximum employment and price
stability.”  The U.S. central bank has deployed record monetary
accommodation to reduce joblessness, and officials are debating
when to begin reducing the pace of their $85 billion in monthly
bond purchases with a balance sheet now at  $3.81 trillion .
Kansas City Fed President Esther George is among those calling
for a reduction in the bond buying soon out of concern the
stimulus risks creating imbalances in the financial system.  The Fed’s new “regulatory efforts can effectively minimize
the risks of another crisis and increase the resiliency of the
financial system,” said Evans, who is a voting member on the
 Federal Open Market Committee  this year. “We can achieve these
objectives without having to resort to wholesale changes to the
financial system and without degrading our monetary policy
goals.”  Job Market  Speaking to reporters after the speech, Evans said the most
recent employment reports have made him nervous and that the
economic data have continued to surprise him. The Fed is looking
for increasing momentum in the economy, he said.  “I don’t think that we have enough positive additional
information going into the next meeting to all of a sudden
decide what is appropriate,” the Chicago Fed chief said.  The FOMC’s next scheduled meeting is Oct. 29-30.  In his speech, Evans added that because inflation is still
low and unemployment is “unacceptably high,” the Fed should
maintain low interest rates until the economy is on a
“sustainable path to its potential level.” The central bank’s
unconventional policies have helped reduce borrowing costs for
consumers and businesses, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Dalton Barker in  Chicago  at 
 dbarker40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  