-- Fidelity’s Mutual Funds Get Biggest Boost From Google
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-10-18T17:59:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/fidelity-s-mutual-funds-get-biggest-boost-from-google.html
Fidelity Investments  runs three of
the 10 mutual funds benefiting the most from today’s record 13
percent gain by search-engine company  Google (GOOG)  Inc.  The $2.7 billion Fidelity  Select Software & Computer
Services Portfolio (FSCSX) , with 12 percent of assets in Google, and the
$2.1 billion Select Technology Portfolio, with 8.8 percent, led
U.S. mutual funds with at least $1 billion in percentage
holdings dedicated to the  Mountain View , California-based
company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on Aug.
31 regulatory filings. Fidelity’s $9.6 billion OTC Portfolio had
the seventh-biggest concentration with 6.3 percent.  Google’s shares reached $1,000 for the first time amid
growing optimism about new advertising for wireless devices and
online video, joining a small club of U.S. stocks. The  Internet
company , along with its investors, is benefiting from ads for
new formats after expanding beyond delivering advertisements
alongside search results on desktop computers. Fidelity’s
 Contrafund (FCNTX) , the firm’s biggest stock mutual fund, bought shares
of Google in the third quarter, manager Will Danoff wrote in a
commentary posted on the Boston-based money manager’s website.  “Because we believe the firm possessed superior operating
advantages stemming from its dominant market share in Internet
search and highly innovative culture, we increased our position
in the stock on its weakness,” wrote Danoff, whose $101 billion
Contrafund holds 6.83 million Google shares, the most of any
 Fidelity fund. (FFIDX)   Fidelity has struggled to retain clients in its actively
managed stock funds amid a surge in popularity for index-based
mutual funds and ETFs. Assets in Fidelity’s active stock funds
dropped 16 percent in the five years through 2012.  Largest Shareholder  Fidelity’s  combined holdings  make it the largest single
owner of Google stock, with about 18.5 million shares, followed
by  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest asset manager, with 15.3
million shares.  The gain in Google helped Select Software & Computer
Services return 33 percent this year, beating 73 percent of
rival funds. Contrafund has returned 25 percent, ahead of 59
percent of competitors.  Google rose 13 percent to $1,007.98 at 1:10 p.m. in New
York. The stock, sold at $85 in a 2004 initial public offering,
has risen every year since except for 2010 and 2008.  Fidelity is the second-biggest mutual-fund manager in the
U.S., with $1.7 trillion in assets. Vanguard Group Inc. is the
biggest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  