-- First Puerto Rico ETF Planned by Van Eck Amid Market Flux
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-10-18T17:25:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/first-puerto-rico-etf-still-planned-by-van-eck-amid-market-flux.html
Van Eck Associates Corp. is moving
ahead with an exchange-traded fund focused on  Puerto Rico  and
other U.S. territories, the first of its kind, even amid the
biggest losses for the island’s securities since at least 1999.  The New York-based company  registered  the Market Vectors
Puerto Rico Municipal Index ETF with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission in August, regulatory filings show. Jim Colby, a senior municipal strategist at Van Eck who would co-manage the fund, said it may debut this year or in 2014,
depending on feedback from the SEC.  “A product like this takes away the individual security
risk and adds an element of liquidity,” Colby said in an
interview. “In this circumstance with this particular product,
my guess is we will have a little bit of pushback” given its
unique nature, he said.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman in Washington, declined to
comment on the filing.  Even after a rebound this week, Puerto Rico securities have
still lost about 19 percent this year through Oct. 17, the worst
performance since at least 1999 and more than six times the drop
in the $3.7 trillion market,  Standard & Poor’s  index data show.  The island’s bonds have rallied since commonwealth
officials gave a webcast briefing for investors on Oct. 15 in
which they said the territory has sufficient funding to avoid
borrowing before June 30. S&P’s Puerto Rico index jumped 2.1
percent yesterday, the biggest one-day increase since December
2008.  Lead Position  Though 77 percent of muni mutual funds hold bonds from the
commonwealth, Van Eck’s ETF would be the first of its kind to
focus primarily on Puerto Rico, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) 
Puerto Rico borrowings are tax-exempt in all states.  While ETFs are similar to mutual funds that track an index
of equities, bonds or commodities, they can be bought and sold
throughout the trading day.  The ETF would replicate Barclays Plc’s Custom Puerto Rico
Municipal Composite Index by investing at least 80 percent of
assets in tax-free debt sold within Puerto Rico,  Guam , the
Virgin Islands,  American Samoa  and the Northern Mariana Islands,
the  SEC filing  said. A “substantial percentage” of assets
would be from Puerto Rico.  The  PowerShares Insured New York Municipal Bond Portfolio (PZT) 
has the highest exposure to Puerto Rico of any ETF, at 15
percent, said Michael Rawson, an ETF analyst at Morningstar.  In the SEC filing, the company cited 19 risks of investing
in the fund, including that “several key economic indicators
have begun to indicate a significant slowing of economic
activity” in Puerto Rico.  A Puerto Rico Government Development Bank index measuring
the self-governing commonwealth’s economic activity fell 5.4
percent in August from a year earlier, the most since 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  