-- France Ranks Companies in Carrot-Baguette Gender-Equality Push
-- B y   L a u r a   C o l b y   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2013-10-18T11:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/france-ranks-companies-in-carrot-baguette-gender-equality-push.html
To foster equality between the sexes
at its biggest companies, France is using both the carrot and
the baguette.  Firms with the best records of getting women into positions
of power were given prizes yesterday by the Ministry of  Women’s
Rights , which ranked advancement of women at 120 publicly traded
companies that make up the  Societe des Bourses Francaises index .
Companies that fail to work on  gender equality  may be punished.  “The purpose of these rankings is to shine light on the
gap between men and women in the governance of companies, to
showcase the companies that have taken the matter to heart, and
to encourage others to do the same,” Najat Vallaud-Belkacem,
the minister, said in a statement. Vallaud-Belkacem this week
attended the ninth annual Women’s Forum in Deauville, France.  The  rankings  were based on criteria including the number of
women on the executive committee, the makeup of the board of
directors and its compensation and recruiting committees, and
whether managers’ pay was based in part on achieving goals of
equality between the sexes. Phone company  Orange SA (ORA)  came in
first, followed by Medica SA, which operates a chain of
retirement homes, and  Compagnie de St Gobain , a maker of glass
and building materials.  “I know how attached companies are to their images,”
Belkacem said. “From now on, the energy that companies spend
fighting inequality between men and women should also be a
criterion for a good or bad reputation.”  Ignoring inequality may hurt more than a firm’s reputation
if Belkacem gets her way.  Fines Seen  Last month, Belkacem, 36, who’s also the spokesman for the
government of President  Francois Hollande , introduced a wide-ranging draft law that would fine companies that fail to meet
standards for equality between the sexes up to 1 percent of
their total payroll per month.  The law would ban non-compliant companies from bidding on
public contracts. It also includes a measure to offer fathers a
six-month paternity leave. Mothers already have state-mandated
leave in France.  Female executives attending the Deauville Forum welcomed
the rankings.  “Having objectives is very important,” said Mouna Sepehri, executive vice president in the office of the chief
executive officer at  Renault SA. (RNO)  The carmaker has set a target
of 30 percent for recruiting women engineers, for instance,
based on the fact that about 30 percent of engineering graduates
are women. So far, the company is at 27 percent, Sepehri said.
Renault came in at No. 46 in the ranking.  Board Quotas  France  required large companies to have non-executive women
account for at least 20 percent of  board members  by 2014, and 40
percent by 2017.  “We have more women on boards,” thanks to the quota, said
Virginie Morgon, chief investment officer of investment firm
Eurazeo SA. “We have to translate this to the executive
level.” Morgon sits on the boards of hotelier Accor SA (ranked
No. 9) and L’Oreal SA (No. 37).  France’s biggest companies last year overtook the U.S. with
the highest proportion of women on boards of directors. A
quarter of board members in France are women compared with 20
percent in the U.S., according to a January 2013 survey by the
 Corporate Women Directors International .  While the quotas and laws about equal pay were passed
before Belkacem took office in May 2012, she has been applying
them aggressively, said Veronique Morali, president of the
Women’s Forum and founder of web site Terrafemina.  Rankings Pioneer  “When she was first named minister, she focused on
violence and women’s rights, but has enlarged the role,” Morali
said. “She’s put herself under the flag of the economy and
companies.”  France isn’t the only country to impose quotas for female
representation on boards, but it may be the first where the
government has come up with a ranking.  In the U.K., where quotas are voluntary, the 30 Percent
Club ranks  FTSE 100 (UKX)  companies by the scale of female
representation on boards, but doesn’t do a comprehensive ranking
that also weighs women’s roles in management.  “I think we should look to do similar in the U.K.,” said
 Helena Morrissey , CEO of Newton Investment Management Ltd. and
founder of the 30 Percent Club.  In the French rankings, even the top-ranked firms didn’t
get perfect grades. Orange, which has 35 women among its top 100
managers and has an internal women’s mentoring network, got 67
points out of a possible total of 100.  That was still way more than the two firms that tied for
last place,  Vilmorin & Cie (RIN) , a Paris-based producer of seeds for
agriculture, and AB Science, a biotechnology company. Both got
zero points.  “These rankings are a very powerful medium,” said Morali.
“They give visibility to actions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Colby in  New York  at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  