-- GE Rises to Five-Year High as Industrial Margin Widens
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-10-18T20:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/ge-profit-beats-estimates-on-aviation-drilling-sales.html
General Electric Co. (GE) , buoyed by
demand for jet engines and locomotives, assured investors that
its industrial business is poised to meet a goal for profit-margin growth and saw its shares climb to a five-year high.  Third-quarter industrial margins widened 1.2 percentage
points from a year earlier, setting up the company to hit its
full-year target of a 0.7 point gain, GE said today. Adjusted
profit from continuing operations of 36 cents a share beat the
35-cent average of 14 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are tracking the margins because Chief Executive
Officer Jeffrey Immelt seeks to boost manufacturing earnings at
Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE while shrinking the finance
unit, after access to capital vanished during the 2008 financial
crisis. GE rose 3.5 percent to $25.55 in New York, its highest
 closing price  since Sept. 25, 2008.  “It was encouraging to see the strength in their orders,”
 Nick Heymann , a New York-based analyst at William Blair & Co.,
said in an interview. He rates GE as market perform. “The
performance on margins was good and takes a little bit of
pressure off the fourth quarter to reach the levels they’ve
talked about.”  Record Backlog  Orders climbed 19 percent to $25.7 billion, including gains
of 17 percent in  China , 18 percent in sub-Saharan  Africa  and 51
percent in  Russia  and other parts of the former Soviet Union.
The company said its  backlog  of equipment and services at the
end of the quarter was a record $229 billion, $6 billion more
than three months earlier.  “We’re benefiting from being focused on these big economic
and demographic changes that are going on across the world that
we sell directly into,” Chief Financial Officer Jeff Bornstein
said in a telephone interview. “We’re in the big infrastructure
businesses that are exactly what these growth economies are
growing out.”  Adjusted profit from continuing operations fell 3 percent
last quarter to $3.7 billion from $3.8 billion, or 36 cents, a
year earlier, GE said in a  statement . Sales fell 1 percent to
$35.7 billion, trailing the $36 billion average estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 11 analysts.  Beat Expectations  Analysts at Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse Group AG and
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said in notes today that GE’s
quarterly gain in industrial margins exceeded their estimates.
The industrial margin for the third quarter was 15.4 percent, GE
executives said on a conference call with analysts. Margins have
expanded 0.4 percentage point this year compared with the first
nine months of 2012.  “We’re ready for a really strong fourth quarter,” Immelt
said on the call. Profit-margin expansion will be broad-based at
the industrial units in the year’s final three months, he said.  Revenue from industrial operations climbed 3 percent, led
by a 12 percent advance at the aviation unit and an 18 percent
gain at the oil and gas division. GE is the world’s largest
maker of jet engines and diesel locomotives.  GE Capital, the finance arm, reported sales of $10.7
billion, 5 percent less than a year earlier. Immelt is studying
a possible initial public offering for the unit’s consumer
lending business, and he promised investors that GE would
provide updates during a Nov. 15 presentation.  Including pension costs and discontinued operations, GE’s
net income fell 9 percent to $3.19 billion, or 31 cents a share,
from $3.49 billion, or 33 cents, a year earlier.  Costs to settle contracts with Avio SpA’s aviation
business, which GE acquired for $4.3 billion, reduced earnings
per share by 2 cents during the quarter, the company said. More
than 50 percent of Avio’s aviation revenue came from GE before
the acquisition, according to a statement last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  