-- German SPD’s Chief Presses Merkel for Third-Term Investment
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-10-18T12:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/german-spd-s-gabriel-presses-merkel-for-investment-in-third-term.html
German Social Democratic Party
leader Sigmar Gabriel said the SPD will press for more spending
on education and infrastructure in a coalition with  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  as he outlined his priorities for government.  Gabriel, in his first speech since he agreed to formal
negotiations aimed at joining Merkel’s bloc in coalition, said
the government needed to raise investment to ensure the
country’s economic success. Fair wages, correcting Germany’s
energy shift and stabilizing Europe were his other main themes
in a speech to union members in Hanover today.  German industry depends “on good and developed economic
infrastructure,” which “has been wearing out for years because
we didn’t even invest what is needed to maintain what we have,”
Gabriel said. “One of the biggest threats to Germany as a
business location would be to continue that way. We need to
invest.”  Gabriel was speaking the day after the SPD leadership
concluded a third round of talks with Merkel’s Christian
Democratic bloc with a recommendation that a party congress this
weekend give the go-ahead to what will be weeks of negotiations
on coalition-building beginning Oct. 23. Any final deal will
then be put to a ballot of the SPD membership before the party
can join Merkel in governing  Europe ’s biggest economy.  Putting the deal to a party vote is at once “bold and
dangerous,” said Fredrik Erixon, director of the European
Centre for International Political Economy in Brussels.  ‘Acute Challenges’  “The SPD will agree to a grand coalition because they fear
not clinching an alliance with Merkel even more than the acute
challenges of forming such a coalition,” he said by phone.  The national executive of Merkel’s  Christian Democratic
Union  met in Berlin today and unanimously endorsed negotiations
toward a so-called grand coalition with the SPD, CDU general
secretary Hermann Groehe told reporters. With the talks likely
to last through November and another two weeks needed for the
SPD vote, Groehe said he hoped an agreement could be signed by
Christmas.  In a speech to the same labor conference two days ago,
Merkel pledged to work for a stable euro area and push ahead
with the shift to renewable energy. Tackling demographic change
and financial relations between  Germany ’s 16 states and the
federal government are the other two priorities of this term,
she said.  Taxes, Wages  The CDU’s red lines in the talks are a rejection of tax
increases and a commitment not to take out new debt, Groehe
said. The SPD has set a national minimum hourly wage of 8.50
euros as a condition for coalition government. The CDU will push
to ensure that minimum wage rules do not cost jobs, he said.  Gabriel, in his speech to members of the IGBCE chemical and
mine-workers’ union, had a similar message to the chancellor on
energy and on helping Europe recover from the ravages of the
sovereign debt crisis that emerged in  Greece  in 2009.  “Germany only generates jobs when other countries around
us are in good enough shape to afford our products,” he said.
“The European Union and the euro is not a burden for Germany,
rather, 40 percent of our exports go to the euro zone, 60
percent go to Europe.” Helping the rest of the continent “is
in our self-interest,” he said. “Our economic future depends
on the future of Europe.”  Coal Plea  On energy, the transition to renewable power “has huge
opportunities to create industrial jobs,” he said. “But if
it’s continued in the current fashion, it has the potential to
destroy industrial jobs.” A new government needs to make
renewable energy affordable and recognize that coal has to be
part of the energy mix, he said.  Merkel led a grand coalition in her first term, from 2005
to 2009. In 2005, when Merkel saw off SPD Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder  by a single percentage point and was forced into
coalition with his party, her bloc won 226 parliamentary seats
to the SPD’s 222 seats.  On Oct. 22, when the lower house of parliament will meet
for the first time since Sept. 22 elections, Merkel’s Christian
Democratic Union and its CSU Bavarian ally will send 311 members
to the 631-seat Bundestag, with the SPD  taking  193 seats.  Gabriel, who served in Merkel’s first-term cabinet as
environment minister, may take over the Labor Ministry from
Ursula von der Leyen, Die Welt newspaper reported today, citing
unidentified SPD leaders. SPD caucus leader Frank-Walter Steinmeier, a former foreign minister, and chief whip Thomas Oppermann are candidates for finance minister, Die Welt said.  The CDU’s Groehe refused to comment on speculation over
future cabinet posts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  