-- Germany’s Bonds Rise Second Day on Bets Fed to Maintain Stimulus
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-10-18T15:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/german-bonds-hold-gain-amid-speculation-fed-to-maintain-stimulus.html
Germany’s government bonds rose for
a second day on speculation the partial U.S. government shutdown
this month slowed growth and will encourage the  Federal Reserve 
to maintain its asset-buying program.  French (GFRN10) , Dutch and Spanish securities also advanced as
investors awaited more signals from the U.S. central bank about
when it will start tapering stimulus that has capped borrowing
costs. Bunds headed for a weekly gain after Fed Bank of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said yesterday policy makers should
postpone slowing the $85 billion of monthly purchases after the
shutdown stopped the flow of economic data used to gauge growth.
 Italy ’s 10-year yields fell to the lowest level in two months.  “Since the U.S. fiscal agreement, markets have started to
contemplate the impact on the economy and monetary policy, and
the Fed might well delay the start of tapering well into the
first quarter of 2014,” said Mathias Van Der Jeugt, a fixed-income strategist at KBC Bank NV in Brussels. “That’s why
yields are trending lower. As you see U.S. yields go lower, the
bund follows.”  Germany’s 10-year yield fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.84 percent at 4:32 p.m. London time. The
2 percent bund due in August 2023 climbed 0.285, or 2.85 euros
per 1,000-euro ($1,369) face amount, to 101.465. The yield
dropped three basis points this week, having risen in each of
the previous two weeks.  France, Netherlands  Similar-maturity French yields declined three basis points
to 2.35 percent, while those of the Netherlands fell five basis
points to 2.19 percent and  Spain ’s dropped three basis points to
4.26 percent.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said yesterday the 16-day
federal shutdown “inflicted completely unnecessary damage” on
the economy and increased the government’s borrowing costs. He
spoke after lawmakers resolved the fiscal standoff that had
threatened to lead to a government default.  “Bonds are, to some extent, supported by the fact that the
government shutdown has weighed on U.S. growth,” BNP Paribas SA
strategists including  Patrick Jacq  in Paris, wrote today in a
note to clients. “As the Fed’s policy is data dependent, the
impact of the shutdown may lead to the expected timing of the
start to Fed tapering being pushed back further.”  BNP predicts German 10-year yields will increase to 2.10
percent by the middle of 2014, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The benchmark rate will climb to 2.16 percent by June
30, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts with the most
recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  Most Volatile  Volatility on Dutch bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of the Netherlands and  Germany ,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  Italy’s  10-year yield  fell three basis points to 4.17
percent after reaching 4.15 percent, the lowest since Aug. 13.  The nation’s benchmark yield has dropped from as high as
4.66 percent on Sept. 30 as Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
won a confidence vote in parliament, enabling him to press on
with structural reforms. The government will bear 2.5 billion
euros of the cuts and regional administrations will deliver 1
billion euros, Letta said this week after his cabinet approved
next year’s budget on Oct. 15.  Austria, France, Spain and Italy are scheduled to redeem
around 68 billion euros of government debt over next two weeks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  German bonds lost 2 percent this year through yesterday,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Spanish securities
returned 9.4 percent and Italy’s gained 5.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  