-- Ghana State Power Company to Sell $500M Debt to Double Capacity
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2013-10-18T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/ghana-state-power-company-to-sell-500m-debt-to-double-capacity.html
Volta River Authority ,  Ghana ’s
largest power producer, plans to sell $500 million of debt
abroad to fund a 10-year plan that will almost double
electricity generation in West Africa’s second-largest economy.  The state-owned company will add 2,500 megawatts to Ghana’s
power grid as part of a $4.5 billion expansion program,Ebenezer Tagoe, the director of finance, said in an interview in the
capital, Accra, on Oct. 16. The Accra-based company has a
capacity of 2,104 megawatts, or 79 percent of the nation’s
installed power and operates Akosombo Dam, also known as Volta
Dam. Sunon Asogli Power Ghana Co. Ltd, Cenit and Bui Hep produce
the rest.  “We have over 16 projects to develop across the country
made up of expansion and building of new thermal plants, solar
panels and renewable energy facilities,” he said. The
“financing strategy includes $500 million in foreign bonds.”  Electricity shortages are hampering Ghana’s economic
growth, which has already been limited by a drop in the price of
gold, the largest source of foreign revenue. The government is
turning to foreign markets to borrow money at lower costs for
infrastructure projects. Ghana, which imports a majority of the
motor fuel it needs, wants to double crude oil output by 2021.  The nation’s credit rating was cut yesterday by Fitch
Rating to B, five levels below investment grade. Ghana spends
about 70 percent of  tax revenue  to pay government workers,
sapping money needed for infrastructure investment.  Ghana gets about half of its electricity from thermal
energy and uses oil products to fuel the plants because of an
ANNUAL?  natural gas shortfall of about 230 million cubic feet,
Kofi Ellis, director of business planning, said in a separate
interview on Oct. 16. Electricity demand is growing at an
average 10 percent annually, Ellis said.  Shortage  “We will need 1 billion standard cubic feet daily in the
next ten years to power our plants and keep pace with economic
growth,” he said.  Ghana gets 70 million cubic feet from the West African Gas
Pipeline Co. and expects to get as much as 90 million cubic feet
from the Jubilee gas project by next year, Ellis said. That is
still short of the 300 million standard cubic feet it needs
daily, he said.  VRA will build a $150 million facility to offload liquefied
natural gas near Takoradi by the end of 2016, Ellis said. The
company will lease floating vessels to store the LNG and do the
re-gasification, he said. LNG is gas chilled to a liquid state
for transport by sea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  