-- Ghana Turns to Longer Term Debt After Fitch Cuts Rating
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u   a n d   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2013-10-18T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/ghana-turns-to-longer-term-debt-after-fitch-cuts-rating.html
Ghana  will sell more longer-term
debt to reduce borrowing costs after  Fitch Ratings  cut the
nation’s credit rating yesterday and warned of risks from the
public-sector wage bill and rising debt levels.  The government will not be able to meet its budget gap
target of 9 percent of gross domestic product this year and will
sell more five-year and seven-year bonds to lock in borrowing
costs, Deputy Finance Minister George Ricketts-Hagan said by
phone yesterday. Fitch cut the nation’s rating to B, on par with
Lebanon and the  Dominican Republic .  “They are making a conscious effort of reducing debt on
the short end of the curve,”  Razia Khan , the head of African
economic research at Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said by
phone yesterday. Short-term debt “is more expensive and puts
the government in a more precarious position. You will see more
longer dated issuance.”  Ghana began reducing subsidies on fuel, water and power and
limiting pay increases to government workers to curb a  budget
deficit  that ballooned to 12.1 percent of GDP last year, almost
double the target of 6.7 percent. While the government has made
progress in reducing the subsidies, it’s still being hampered by
the wage bill, which accounts for about 70 percent of  tax
revenue , Fitch said. Gold prices have dropped 22 percent this
year, further curbing earnings for  Africa ’s second-largest
producer of the metal.  Lower Costs  The average  interest rate  on Ghana’s three-month bonds,
used by local banks to determine their own lending rates, has
more than doubled since the end of 2011 to 20.446 percent. Ghana
sold 100 million cedis ($45.7 million) of seven-year bonds this
year, the longest maturity ever at a coupon of 17.5 percent.  “Ghana’s creditworthiness has been further weakened by the
government’s failure to fully implement its fiscal consolidation
plan in 2013,”  Carmen Altenkirch , a London-based Fitch analyst,
said in the note. “The authorities continued to overrun on
wages, interest costs and arrears.”  Fitch’s analysis is “extremely narrow,” Finance Minister
Seth Terkper said by phone after the decision.  “The rating is not fair, it does not reflect our efforts
at fiscal consolidation and short and medium adjustments to curb
the deficit,” he said. “No country completes adjustment within
one year.”  On Track  Last month, Terkper said Ghana was on track to reduce the
deficit to 9 percent this year through austerity measures.  The government may fall short of its budget deficit goal
this year because of the falling price of gold, Societe Generale
SA said in August. Economic growth will slow to 7 percent this
year from 8 percent in 2012, according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  Ghana will probably target a budget gap of 9.5 percent when
Terkper presents his new budget later this year,  David Cowan , a
Citigroup Inc. Africa economist, said in an interview from
Johannesburg yesterday.  “It will be a big test for them, because they have to get
it down,”  he said.  Spending on wages climbed to 72 percent of tax revenue last
year, fueled by an 18 percent wage increase for civil servants.
The state plans to lower the wage bill to between 30 percent and
35 percent of tax income by 2015.  The  Bank of Ghana  left the benchmark interest rate
unchanged for a second consecutive meeting on Sept. 18 to
counter sluggish growth and a weaker cedi, which has dropped 13
percent against the dollar this year. Inflation quickened in
September to 11.9 percent, the fastest pace this year, while the
currency remained at a record low, boosting the cost of imports.  The cedi fell 0.6 percent to 2.19 per dollar as of 3:39
p.m. in Accra yesterday. The yield on the 2023 dollar bond
dropped 3 basis points to 7.87 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net ;
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  