-- Gol Rises as Airline Seeks Tie-Up With Air France-KLM, Lufthansa
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-10-18T17:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/gol-rises-as-airline-seeks-tie-up-with-air-france-klm-lufthansa.html
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4) ,
 Brazil ’s second-biggest carrier, rose to a two-week high after
saying it’s in talks with European airlines including  Air
France-KLM (AF)  and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  for codesharing accords.  The Sao-Paulo based company expects to sign two to three
agreements to share booking codes with European partners in the
next year, Treasury Director Eduardo Masson Martins told
reporters at an event in Rio de Janeiro today.  “We have already expressed an interest in improving our
relations with Europe,” Martins said. “At the end, it’s an
empty seat that will be filled.”  Talks with Air France and Lufthansa are the “strongest,”
according to Martins. Gol also continues to negotiate with Rome-based Alitalia SpA and other European airlines, he said. Under
codesharing agreement, airlines can sell tickets on each other’s
flights to expand the number of cities that can be served.  Gol added 0.9 percent to 10.90 reais at 1:59 p.m. in Sao
Paulo, poised for the highest closing level since Oct. 4.
Brazil’s benchmark Ibovespa equity gauge gained 0.1 percent.  “Partnerships with these European giants would be very
good for the company,” Sandro Fernandes, an analyst at
brokerage firm Geraldo Correa in Belo Horizonte, Brazil, said in
a telephone interview. “With the flight sharing, they can act
where their partners have operations, expanding their range.”  TAM Linhas Aereas SA, the Brazilian unit of Latam Airlines
Group SA, is Brazil’s largest air carrier by market share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  