-- Goldman Sachs Cuts Arabica Coffee Forecasts by 7.7% on Weather
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-10-18T10:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/goldman-sachs-cuts-arabica-coffee-forecasts-by-7-7-on-weather.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its
price forecasts for arabica coffee traded in  New York  by 7.7
percent, citing favorable weather and the biggest stockpiles of
the variety favored by  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  in five years.  The beans traded on the ICE Futures U.S. exchange will be
at $1.20 a pound in three, six and 12 months, the bank said in a
report e-mailed today. That’s down from last month’s forecast
for $1.30 a pound. Arabica coffee futures fell 20 percent this
year on signs of bigger harvests in leading producer  Brazil  and
 Colombia , the second-biggest grower of the variety.  “Arabica coffee prices continued to decline last month on
larger than expected Colombian production and favorable weather
for the upcoming crop in Brazil,” Damien Courvalin, an analyst
at the bank in New York, wrote in the report.  Futures are heading for a third year of declines, the
longest losing streak since 1993. The commodity is the fourth
worst performer this year in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of
24 raw materials, with only gold, silver and corn down by more.
Stockpiles at the end of this season will be 30.5 million bags,
the highest since 2008-09, estimates the U.S. Department of
Agriculture. A bag of coffee weighs 60 kilograms (132 pounds).  Coffee prices could rebound if there are further cuts to
production in Central America, where leaf rust disease has hit
crops, or if funds decide to close out bets on lower prices,
Goldman said. Large and small speculators excluding  index funds 
have been betting on lower prices since 2011, data from the U.S.
Futures Trading Commission compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Arabica coffee for December deliver was little changed at
$1.1475 a pound on ICE by 5:53 a.m. in New York.  Sugar Surplus  While the global sugar surplus will be smaller this season
than previously expected because of import demand from China and
 Indonesia , stockpiles will rise for a fourth consecutive season,
Goldman said. Prices rallied 11 percent last month as rainfall
reduced output in Brazil’s center south, the main growing region
of the world’s leading producer, and funds started buying.  “We view the recent rally as likely excessive given
current fundamentals, exacerbated by the covering of large net
short ICE speculative positions,” Courvalin said.  Sugar prices will be at 17.50 cents a pound in three months
and 19 cents a pound in six and 12 months, the bank forecasts.
The sweetener, which fell to as low as 15.93 cents a pound in
July, was trading today at 18.96 cents a pound for March
delivery.  Cocoa Inventories  Global cocoa inventories will decline for a second year as
processing rises. Bean grinding in  Europe  gained 4.7 percent in
the third quarter, according to the European Cocoa Association.
In  Asia , grindings rose 12 percent and in  North America  advanced
8.2 percent in the same period, according to the Cocoa
Association of Asia and the  National Confectioners Association .  Futures will be at $2,500 a ton in three, six and 12
months, the bank said. The forecast is below current prices
because of record bullish speculators bets at a time of “high”
stocks-to-use ratio, the bank said.  Cocoa for December delivery was down 1 percent to $2,740 a
ton in New York. The beans used to make chocolate gained 22
percent this year, this year’s best performing commodity on the
GSCI, ahead of cotton and natural gas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  