-- Google Boosts Ad Volumes to Counter Mobile Price Declines
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-10-18T13:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/google-boosts-ad-volumes-to-counter-mobile-price-declines.html
As  Google Inc. (GOOG)  navigates a shift to
mobile promotions from pricier search-based ads on desktops, it
is relying on a simple maxim: volume, not just price.  The  stock  jumped a record 11 percent after Google yesterday
posted third-quarter sales and profit that topped analysts’
estimates. While Google struggles with declining mobile
premiums, it’s staving off a dent in revenue by selling more ads
at a faster rate. The volume of clicks on advertisements climbed
at the fastest pace this year, compensating for a drop in
average-ad prices.  Google stepped up investments to boost capacity and
introduce services that encourage marketers to direct more
spending toward wireless devices. The upshot: the Web company is
on track to make up 33 percent of the global online-advertising
market this year, up from 31 percent last year,  according  to
EMarketer Inc.  “As long as we continue to see that higher-than-expected
volume coupled with the lower pricing, I’m OK with it,” said
 Josh Olson , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co., who rates the
stock a buy. “It just signals they have good demand for that
mobile business.”  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , jumped to
$979.32 at 9:39 a.m.  New York  time. The stock had gained 26
percent this year through yesterday, while the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index gained 22 percent.  Revenue, excluding sales passed on to partner sites, was
$11.92 billion, the company said in a statement on its  website 
yesterday, exceeding the average analyst projection for $11.64
billion, according to  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The
volume of clicks on ads jumped 26 percent, making up for an 8
percent decline in average-ad prices.  Profit Engine  Profit excluding certain items was $10.74 a share, topping
analysts’ average projection of $10.36. Net income rose 36
percent to $2.97 billion from the year-earlier period.  The push to boost volumes -- which rose 23 percent in the
second quarter and 20 percent in the first -- took its toll on
Google’s gross profit margin, which shrank to 56.9 percent, the
lowest level this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Operating expenses jumped 9.3 percent during the quarter, though
they made up a smaller piece of sales. That’s happened as click-price declines have widened, from 6 percent in the second
quarter and 4 percent in the first.  New Ad Service  The search provider has been working to address falling
prices. The company earlier this year introduced a new
advertising service called “enhanced campaigns,” encouraging
marketers to funnel more of their spending to wireless devices.  The campaigns and other initiatives should help average ad
prices recover in the next year or so, according to Victor Anthony, an analyst at Topeka Capital Markets Inc.  “The results clearly demonstrate that Google remains kind
of the best of breed, best of class in the online advertising
space, really within the Internet space itself,” Anthony said.  Revenue at Google’s sites, including the search page and
YouTube, expanded 22 percent, faster than the 18 percent in the
previous quarter.  “My goal was to ensure that Google maintains the passion
and soul of the startup as we grow,” Chief Executive Officer
 Larry Page  said in a call with analysts yesterday. “That’s why
I worked so hard to increase the velocity and execution.”  Page, who became CEO in 2011, also said that he won’t join
every earnings call in the future, citing a need to prioritize
his time. The co-founder last missed a call in July 2012 after
he lost his voice, which forced him to miss other company events
as well. In May, Page disclosed a health condition resulting in
hoarse speech and labored breathing, noting that it wouldn’t
impede him from running the company.  Ad Growth  Google is also spending on investments, mainly for
equipment, data centers and real estate. Capital expenditures
rose to $2.29 billion from $1.6 billion in the second quarter.  “They continue to grow -- for a company this size, very
solid growth, still very profitable despite all the investments
they’re making,” said  Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert W.
Baird & Co. who rates the stock the equivalent of a buy.  Google is making other changes. Earlier this month, the
search provider said it would update its marketing rules to
allow users’ names and photos to be used in more promotions.  The company and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  are taking market share from
 Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , which earlier this week reported a decline in
revenue, while profit was bolstered by the Web portal’s stake in
China’s Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.  Google is pushing for better results in other areas,
including in hardware. Its Motorola mobile unit, which the
company bought last year in its biggest acquisition ever,
announced a flagship Moto X smartphone in August, an effort to
boost sagging market share. Revenue in the division declined 34
percent to $1.18 billion.  “Google has a lot of things going for it,” said  Sameet Sinha , an analyst at B. Riley & Co, who  rates  the stock a buy
and doesn’t own it. “Google has its fingers in every pie.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  