-- India Said to Consider Halting Dollar Supplies to Refiners
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s ,   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   D i v y a   P a t i l
-- 2013-10-18T08:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/india-said-to-consider-stopping-direct-dollar-supply-to-refiners.html
India ’s central bank is looking at
ending an emergency facility under which it has directly sold
dollars to state refiners since late August, according to three
people with knowledge of the matter. The rupee fell.  The  Reserve Bank  of India is in talks with the companies to
gauge the potential impact of withdrawing the measure on the
 exchange rate , two of the people said, asking not to be named as
the discussions are private. The facility stays operational and
“any tapering of the window, as and when it occurs, will be
done in a calibrated manner,” the RBI said in a statement on
its website today.  The dollar supplies were announced on Aug. 28, when the
rupee slumped to a record low of 68.845 against the greenback,
to temper excess demand for foreign exchange in the domestic
market. The local currency has rebounded more than 12 percent
since. India’s three biggest state refiners bought about $300
million a day from the local  spot market  to pay for oil imports
before the RBI move, Standard Chartered Plc said in August.
Asia’s No. 3 economy imports about 80 percent of its oil.  “The RBI could be trying to signal that some sort of
normalcy has been restored to the market,” said  Vishnu Varathan , a senior economist at Mizuho Bank Ltd. in Singapore.
“The markets will now be a bit cautious on the rupee and
investors will be less inclined to” buy the currency, he said.  RBI Governor  Raghuram Rajan , who raised the benchmark rate
last month for the first time since 2011 to counter inflation,
has said the bank will gradually scale back the dollar supplies
as the rupee stabilizes.  Rupee Falls  The rupee reversed the day’s 0.5 percent gains and slumped
as much as 0.8 percent to 61.7100 a dollar before trading at
61.3225 as of 1:46 p.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from
local banks compiled by Bloomberg.  One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, fell
38 basis points, or 0.38 percentage point, to 13.04 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge touched 12.83
percent earlier, the lowest level since Aug. 16.  Under the contingency measure, the RBI provided the U.S.
currency to Indian Oil Corp., Bharat Petroleum Corp. and
Hindustan Petroleum Corp., according to the central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Divya Patil in Mumbai at 
 dpatil7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  