-- Indian Rupee Volatility Declines to Two-Month Low on Fed Outlook
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   D i v y a   P a t i l
-- 2013-10-18T12:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/indian-rupee-volatility-declines-to-two-month-low-on-fed-outlook.html
Volatility in India’s rupee fell to
a two-month low on speculation a U.S. budget impasse that
weighed on the world’s largest economy will prompt the  Federal
Reserve  to prolong stimulus that’s buoyed  emerging markets .  Congress voted yesterday to halt a 16-day government
shutdown and avert a debt default.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific
Investment Management Co. said the Fed will postpone tapering
its bond purchases after the fiscal standoff. Global funds
bought a net $1.2 billion of Indian stocks this month through
Oct. 17, exchange data show, in a sign of improving confidence
in the rupee after the  Reserve Bank  of India stepped up efforts
since the start of September to boost dollar supply.  “The pushing out to next year of U.S. tapering and U.S.
fiscal concerns has allowed risk-taking behavior across
emerging-market foreign exchange,” strategists at Morgan
Stanley, including London-based  Hans Redeker , wrote in a
research report yesterday. “We’re tactically bullish on the
rupee as the RBI’s efforts on improving the balance of payments
seem to be working.”  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, fell 178 basis
points, or 1.78 percentage points, this week to 12.97 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The central bank is looking at ending an emergency facility
under which it has directly sold dollars to state refiners since
late August, according to three people with knowledge of the
matter. The facility stays operational and “any tapering of the
window, as and when it occurs, will be done in a calibrated
manner,” the RBI said in a statement on its website today.  The rupee reversed gains, sliding as much as 0.8 percent to
61.71 a dollar before ending the day at 61.265 versus 61.22
yesterday, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. It fell 0.3 percent this week.  Fed Outlook  The U.S. “fiscal shenanigans” undermined the case for
tapering the Fed’s $85 billion in monthly bond buying, Dallas
Fed President  Richard Fisher  said yesterday.  Standard & Poor’s  said suspending government operations
would shave at least 0.6 percent from fourth-quarter U.S. gross
domestic product growth, taking $24 billion out of the economy.
The Fed shouldn’t begin reducing bond purchases because, during
the shutdown, the government halted data used to gauge the
economy’s health, Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans , an
outspoken advocate of greater stimulus, said yesterday.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards rose 0.3 percent today
to 62.62 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore
non-deliverable contracts were little changed at 62.70. Forwards
are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date.
Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Divya Patil in Mumbai at 
 dpatil7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  