-- Iran’s Zarif Uses Twitter, Facebook to Deny Nuclear Deal
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-10-18T12:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/iran-s-zarif-uses-twitter-facebook-to-deny-nuclear-deal.html
Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif posted comments on Facebook and Twitter to deny
leaks of the Persian Gulf nation’s proposed deal with world
powers over its disputed nuclear program.  Zarif said in a Twitter posting today that members of the
Iranian negotiating team “are the only ones who know the
proposal and they only speak on-the-record. Anonymous sources
have no info.”  A report yesterday on Al-Monitor, a Washington-based
website, cited an unidentified Iranian saying  Iran  had offered
to freeze production of 20 percent-enriched uranium, pledged to
convert its stockpile of enriched material to fuel rods and hand
over the spent fuel from the Arak heavy water reactor to an
international body.  After a decade of talks punctuated by threats of military
action and trade sanctions, Iran may be moving toward a deal
with the P5+1 powers -- the U.S., U.K.,  France ,  Germany ,  Russia 
and  China . The two sides will hold another round of negotiations
next month.  European Union foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton said
the meetings in Geneva on Oct. 15 and 16 were the most detailed
talks “by a long way.”  No details of Iran’s plan have been leaked,  Zarif said on
his Facebook page , which has more than 480,000 fans. “Of course
we know that some groups are not keen for these negotiations to
be successful,” Zarif said. He added that  “the Zionists had
the greatest fear” from an agreement between Iran and the West.  In the past, Zarif, who was appointed to his post in
August, has used his Facebook page to share his views on
progress of talks during the United Nations General Assembly in
New York last month, as well as to issue comments against
hardliners in Tehran.  He is the only cabinet minister to have a Facebook page and
resorts to social media despite the Iranian government’s ban on
Facebook and Twitter.  Republican Senators Marco Rubio and Mark Kirk called for
more sanctions on Iran on Oct. 16 after the end of talks, saying
Iran cannot be trusted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in Geneva at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  