-- Japan Funds Lead Efforts for Renewable Projects With Local Money
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-10-18T09:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/japan-funds-lead-efforts-for-renewable-projects-with-local-money.html
Two Japanese clean energy funds plan
to raise about 1 billion yen ($10 million) from the public and
urge regional financial institutions to provide loans for wind
and solar projects to boost the local economy.  Ohisama Energy Fund Co . and  Japan Green Fund Co . will help
regional power producers raise money, they said in a statement
yesterday. The  Institute for Sustainable Energy Policies  will
help developers set up business plans.  The group is raising 350 million yen for a solar and
biomass project in Nagano prefecture and plans to raise money
for other developments in Hokkaido, Fukushima, Kanagawa and
Yamaguchi prefectures by early next year.  Local banks and credit unions must get involved for such
regional renewable projects to succeed, Koichi Ito, a professor
at the Graduate School of Accounting and Finance at Chiba
University of Commerce and an adviser to the group, said at a
Tokyo news conference yesterday.  “Big companies come to rural areas to produce power and
take money back to urban areas,” he said. “We need investment
by citizens and cooperation from local financial institutions to
help the  money flow  locally.”  To help local lenders new to solar projects, the  Ministry
of the Environment  is preparing a handbook. Japan introduced an
incentive program for clean energy in July 2012 which helped the
country’s mostly residential solar market expand into commercial
and utility-scale projects.  Local Loans  “There is increasing need for loans provided by local
financial institutions” for projects led by regional developers
and non-profit organizations, the ministry said in a draft of
the handbook, which is to be distributed early next year.
“There are increasing expectations that financial institutions
should be able to gauge the feasibility of each project in such
a new field as renewable energy.”  The two funds aim to raise about 2 billion yen for several
projects for the year starting April 1, Toru Suzuki, who heads
 Japan  Green Fund, said yesterday.  Japan Green and Ohisama Energy have been raising money for
renewable projects since 2003 and 2004, respectively, according
to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  