-- Japan Ruling LDP to Ask Mizuho’s Sato to Explain Crime Loans
-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2013-10-18T06:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/japan-ruling-party-to-ask-mizuho-s-sato-to-explain-crime-loans.html
Japan ’s ruling party plans to ask
 Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  President Yasuhiro Sato to appear
before its finance committee to explain the bank’s lending to
crime groups.  Isshu Sugawara, chairman of the Liberal Democratic Party’s
finance committee, said he wants Sato to speak to the panel
after Mizuho submits a business improvement plan to the
Financial Services Agency due Oct. 28. The lawmakers have begun
to examine whether the FSA’s supervision of Mizuho was adequate,
Sugawara told reporters in Tokyo today.  The financial regulator ordered Mizuho to improve
compliance on Sept. 27 for neglecting to break off loans made to
members of crime groups through its  Orient Corp. (8585)  consumer credit
affiliate. The Tokyo-based bank initially told the FSA that
compliance officials knew of the loans, only to say last week
that top managers were also aware of the transactions.  Sato, 61, said on Oct. 8 that he was in a position to have
found out about the loans in executive meetings as early as July
2011, when reports mentioning the transactions were distributed.  It was “outrageous” that Mizuho failed to address the
loans and the bank’s top executives bear a great responsibility,
Sugawara said. While the committee has no power to summon Sato,
it can propose law changes.  Masako Shiono, spokeswoman for Mizuho in  Tokyo , declined to
comment on the LDP committee’s plans.  Orient’s Pledge  Mizuho’s banking unit made 230 transactions through Orient,
mostly loans for automobiles, valued at about 200 million yen
($2 million), according to the FSA. Orient submitted a report to
the trade ministry this week pledging to promptly recall or
terminate outstanding loans to gangsters.  As well as propose measures to improve internal controls,
Mizuho has to explain to the FSA by Oct. 28 how and when top
management became aware of the transactions.  The case has prompted the Japanese Bankers Association to
explore ways to ensure its members avoid business with the
yakuza. The industry group, which has a database on criminal
organizations, is considering sharing information with consumer
credit companies, Chairman Takeshi Kunibe said yesterday. It has
also been in talks with the National Police Agency since 2010 on
sharing information from the agency’s database.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  