-- JPMorgan Said to Have $4 Billion Tentative FHFA Accord
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-10-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/jpmorgan-said-to-have-4-billion-tentative-fhfa-accord.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  reached a
tentative settlement for about $4 billion with the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency  over the bank’s sale of mortgage-backed
securities, according to a person familiar with the matter.  The possible accord with the agency, which originally asked
for $6 billion from the firm, could be included in a broader
deal the bank is seeking with federal and state authorities,
according to a different person briefed on the settlement talks.
If JPMorgan can’t reach a global settlement on pending mortgage
bond matters, it may instead seek to settle claims such as the
FHFA’s individually, said the person. Both people asked not to
be named because the talks are private.  JPMorgan is grappling with investigations in the U.S. and
abroad, including probes into a trading loss last year of more
than $6.2 billion and its hiring practices in  Asia . The bank has
tapped $8 billion of $28 billion in reserves set aside since
2010 to cover its legal costs.  The New York-based bank has been discussing a potential $11
billion deal with state and federal authorities that would
settle mortgage-related claims and investigations, including a
criminal probe by U.S. prosecutors in  California , a person with
knowledge of the talks said last month. The FHFA’s lawsuit was
the furthest along in negotiations, the person familiar with the
settlement talks said.  Taxpayer Losses  The FHFA sued JPMorgan and 17 other banks over faulty
mortgage bonds two years ago in an effort to recoup some of the
losses taxpayers were forced to cover when the government took
control of the failing mortgage finance companies in 2008.
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac , which are regulated by FHFA, have
taken $187.5 billion in federal aid since then.  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for the New York-based
company, and Denise Dunckel at the FHFA declined to comment on
the bank’s talks with the regulator.  The tentative agreement was reported earlier by the Wall
Street Journal.  The mounting litigation and regulatory probes led JPMorgan
to take a $7.2 billion charge in the third quarter, its first
loss under Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , the bank said
when it reported earnings Oct. 11.  “This is very painful for the company,” Dimon told
analysts on a call that day. “As we settle, as we negotiate,
remember there are multiple agencies involved in every case
now.”  Fines Paid  The company has so far paid more than $1 billion to five
different regulators to settle allegations involving the trading
loss last year.  Dimon spent two hours at the  Justice Department  in
 Washington  on Sept. 26 to personally discuss a possible global
settlement with Attorney General Eric Holder, a person familiar
the meeting said last month.  Others involved in the talks of a global deal include the
the Department of Housing and Urban Development and  New York 
Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, who is co-chairman of a
federal and state working group on residential mortgage-backed
securities.  The FHFA accused JPMorgan and its affiliates of making
false statements and omitting material facts in selling $33
billion in mortgage bonds to  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac from
Sept. 7, 2005, through Sept. 19, 2007. The regulator said
executives at JPMorgan, Washington Mutual and Bear Stearns Cos.,
which were acquired by JPMorgan in 2008, knowingly
misrepresented the quality of the loans underlying the bonds,
among other things, according to the lawsuit filed in federal
court in Manhattan.  UBS Settlement  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank, agreed to pay $885
million last month to settle claims it misrepresented the
quality of the loans backing $4.5 billion in residential
mortgage bonds it sponsored and $1.8 billion of third-party
mortgage bonds sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. UBS was the
third bank to reach an agreement with FHFA.  Citigroup Inc. and  General Electric Co. (GE)  both paid
undisclosed amounts to settle the regulator’s claims.  The case is Federal Housing Finance Agency v. JPMorgan
Chase & Co., 11-06188, U.S. District Court Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  