-- JPMorgan Sells Chase Manhattan Plaza in NYC to China’s Fosun
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-10-18T05:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/jpmorgan-selling-chase-manhattan-plaza-in-nyc-to-china-s-fosun.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  has agreed to
sell 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, the tower built by  David Rockefeller , to Fosun International Ltd., the investment arm of
China’s biggest closely held industrial group, for $725 million.  Fosun, which invests in properties, pharmaceuticals and
steel, is buying the 60-story, 2.2 million square-foot, lower
Manhattan tower, according to a statement it filed to Hong
Kong’s stock exchange.  China’s developers and companies are expanding in overseas
property markets as the government maintains curbs on housing at
home to cool prices. Greenland Holding Group Co., a Shanghai-based, state-owned developer, this month agreed to buy a 70
percent stake in a residential and commercial real estate
project in Brooklyn.  “There’s a lot of excess capital in China that needs a way
out at the moment,” Simon Lo, Hong Kong-based executive
director for Asia research and advisory at property broker
Colliers International, said in a phone interview today. “Also,
by investing in markets like New York, they believe they can
gain from the recovery of the  U.S. economy  and real estate
market.”  Fosun (656) , owned by Chinese billionaire Guo Guangchang, fell
0.3 percent to HK$6.79 at the midday trading break in Hong Kong.
Shares in the Shanghai-based company have gained 37 percent this
year, compared with the 2.6 percent increase in the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index .  Chinese Developers  Over the past year, other Chinese developers and wealthy
investors have been buying real estate in the U.S.  China Vanke Co., the biggest homebuilder listed in mainland
China, said in February it joined a residential real estate
venture in San Francisco. The families of Zhang Xin, co-founder
of  Soho China Ltd. (410) , the biggest developer in Beijing’s central
business district, and Brazilian banking billionaire Moise Safra
this year bought a 40 percent stake in New York’s General Motors
Building.  The landmark 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, designed by architect
Gordon Bunshaft and built in the 1950s, was once the
headquarters of Chase Manhattan Bank. Rockefeller, as head of
the bank’s building committee, selected the site and oversaw its
construction.  JPMorgan intends to relocate about 4,000 employees, most of
the people who work in the 60-story skyscraper, to other New
York locations,  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman, said in August.
JPMorgan occupies about half of its space.  Jane Zhang, a Shanghai-based spokeswoman for Fosun,
declined to comment on how the company plans to use the building
when contacted by  Bloomberg News  by phone.  An e-mail sent after business hours in New York to  Joseph
Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  