-- HKMA May Tighten Bank Funding Rules to Safeguard Credit Supply
-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-10-18T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/hkma-may-tighten-bank-funding-rules-to-safeguard-credit-supply.html
The  Hong Kong  Monetary Authority may
introduce measures to discourage banks from using short-term
funding for long-term loans as the regulator seeks to ensure
faster lending growth doesn’t destabilize the economy.  Loans have risen by a “relatively fast” annualized rate
of 18 percent to 19 percent from January through September, HKMA
Chief Executive  Norman Chan  told reporters in Beijing. If final
September data show growth stayed strong, the de facto central
bank will tell lenders to cut reliance on the  interbank market 
and seek more stable sources of funds, matching the maturities
of borrowing and lending more closely, he said.  The HKMA said in July it had summoned banks for meetings
after annualized loan growth doubled to almost 40 percent in
June, as a cash crunch in mainland  China ’s interbank market
increased Hong Kong’s relative attractiveness for borrowers.
Units of foreign banks have been subject to the maturity
matching requirements since late 2011.  “During a liquidity squeeze, banks could be forced to call
in loans from corporates just because funding stops due to a
mismatch,” said Chan. “We don’t want to see that. We wish to
ensure banks have stable funding sources.”  Total loans in the city may climb by 15 percent to 19
percent this year, HKMA Deputy Chief Executive Arthur Yuen said
last month. That compares with 20 percent in 2011 and 29 percent
in 2010, the  fastest pace  since 1990.  Separately, the HKMA is interested in seeking a higher
quota to invest in China’s interbank bond market, after using up
its 30 billion-yuan limit, Chan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  