-- Madoffs, Kohn Exonerated in Suit Over European Losses
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-10-18T23:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/kohn-wins-lawsuit-over-madoff-ponzi-scheme-losses-in-europe.html
Former Bank Medici AG chairwoman
Sonja Kohn and directors of  Bernard Madoff ’s European
operations, including his sons Mark and Andrew, don’t owe
anything to liquidators seeking to recoup losses to repay the
conman’s victims, a judge ruled.  Judge Andrew Popplewell dismissed a lawsuit yesterday filed
by liquidators of Madoff Securities International Ltd., based in
 London . They were seeking to recover about $50 million,
including payments for a luxury yacht and an Aston Martin sports
car.  Mark Madoff, who killed himself in 2010, and Andrew Madoff
were defendants in the six week trial. The judge cleared them of
any breach of duty. Peter, Bernard Madoff’s brother, was dropped
as a defendant in the trial and provided evidence via video link
from a U.S. prison. He had pleaded guilty to aiding the fraud.  “The stress imposed on them and their families must have
been immense, just as it must also have been on  Andrew Madoff ,
seriously ill with cancer, and his brothers families,”
Popplewell said of the defendants in the U.K. case. “Their
honesty and integrity has been vindicated.”  The exoneration of the U.K. defendants comes as five former
employees of the elder Madoff are on trial in  New York  federal
court for allegedly aiding his $17 billion Ponzi scheme. They
claim they were kept in the dark about the fraud and duped by
the fraud mastermind’s personality and reputation.  ‘Commendable Dignity’  Kohn and former SG Warburg executive Stephen Raven, both
long-time associates of Madoff, also gave evidence in the London
case, which ended in July. Lawyers for both Kohn and Raven said
they welcome yesterday’s ruling in separate e-mailed statements.  “I cannot forbear from recording the commendable dignity
and restraint which I have observed in each of” the defendants
in the trial, Popplewell said in the ruling. “Madoff’s fraud
itself blighted their lives and tainted their good names simply
by association, quite apart from the financial losses suffered
by some from investments in the  Ponzi scheme .”  Madoff, 75, is serving a 150-year sentence for what
prosecutors said was the biggest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.
Liquidators of his companies have sued banks, feeder funds, and
Madoff’s employees to recover some of the $17 billion lost by
victims.  “Mark and Andrew Madoff were honest directors who knew
nothing of their father’s fraud,” said David Archer Partner, a
lawyer for Andrew Madoff and Mark Madoff’s estate with Pitmans
LLP. “Andrew Madoff and his family are pleased that, after a
thorough review of all the facts, justice has been served.”  European Operations  Madoff’s European operations were owned almost exclusively
by Madoff and served as his proprietary trading unit. More than
$910 million was transferred between the London unit and Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC in New York from the time of
the office’s founding in 1983 until firm’s collapse in December
2008, the liquidators said when they filed the lawsuit in 2010.  “We are obviously extremely disappointed with the judgment
handed down today as claims made against the defendants were
serious and there was undoubtedly a case to answer,” Simon Rothschild, a spokesman for Grant Thornton LLP, the liquidators
winding down Madoff’s U.K. unit, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  The case is Madoff Securities International Ltd. v. Raven,
Case no. 10-1468,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  