-- N.J. Towns in Same-Sex Marriage Licensing Quandary on Legal Move
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-10-18T17:37:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/n-j-towns-in-same-sex-marriage-licensing-quandary-on-legal-move.html
While  Newark  Mayor Cory Booker irons
out legal issues before he’ll fulfill his hope of marrying gay
couples, other New Jersey town officials are preparing for the
Oct. 21 start date for same-sex marriages.  Barring a state Supreme Court stay requested by Republican
Governor  Chris Christie  that would put the legalization on hold,
New Jersey will become the 14th U.S. state to allow gay
nuptials, as ordered last month by Superior Court Judge Mary
Jacobson in Mercer County.  In Newark, New Jersey’s largest city, Booker has refused to
officiate any weddings until gay couples are allowed to marry.
Booker, 44, won this week’s special  U.S. Senate  election.  “As a passionate advocate for marriage equality, Mayor
Booker has long hoped to be able to marry same-sex couples in
Newark City Hall,” James Allen, a spokesman for Booker, said in
an e-mail. “The city is currently ironing out some legal issues
before determining the appropriate next steps. The mayor has
nothing to confirm or announce about ceremonies at this time and
no licenses have been issued.”  Maplewood Mayor Victor DeLuca would officiate at any
licensed ceremony, though his office hadn’t received any
marriage applications as of 11 a.m., said Elizabeth Fritzen, the
township clerk.  ‘Very Gray’  Asbury Park, the run-down beach resort revived by a surge
of gay homeowners, went against the advice of the state
registrar and accepted paperwork from three couples yesterday,
said Tom Gilmour, a city spokesman.  “Whether we’ll actually be able to make them official on
Monday or not is still very gray,” Gilmour said. “We’re
trying, just like everyone else in the world right now, to get
some firm direction here as to what we’re allowed to do.”  Applications are subject to a 72-hour wait for licensing,
Fritzen and Gilmour said. The  Supreme Court  hasn’t ruled yet on
Christie’s request for a stay, which Jacobson denied Oct. 10.  In Lambertville, a city of about 3,900 residents on the
 Delaware River  where restaurants and art galleries display gay-pride flags, Mayor David DelVecchio had plans to preside over
New Jersey’s first same-sex wedding at 12:01 a.m. on Oct. 21. He
had officiated in 2007 at one of the state’s first civil unions,
of Beth Asaro, 53, a city councilwoman, and Joanne Schailey, 56,
a registered nurse.  Legal Direction  Lambertville had a list of 10 to 12 couples interested in
licenses, though it hadn’t processed any applications,
DelVecchio said by telephone last night. He didn’t immediately
respond to a phone message today.  In an e-mail yesterday to New Jersey’s 21 county
registrars, State Registrar Vincent Arrisi said that his office
had received many inquiries on how to proceed and was “awaiting
legal direction on if and when we can start taking
applications.”  “At this point, you cannot take applications for  same-sex
marriages  until you hear from this office that we have the
authority to do so,” Arrisi wrote.  The e-mail was confirmed as genuine by Donna Leusner, a
spokeswoman for the state health department, which oversees
Arrisi’s office. It was distributed by state Assemblyman Reed Gusciora, an openly gay Democrat from Trenton, who questioned
whether Christie was cooperating with Jacobson’s ruling.  “By telling municipalities that they can’t accept same-sex
marriage applications, it appears the state registrar is
unilaterally issuing a stay on Judge Jacobson’s order before the
Supreme Court weighs in on the matter,” Gusciora said in a
statement. “And if this edict did not originate from the State
Registrar himself, then who’s pushing the buttons?”  Emergency Appeal  Michael Drewniak , a spokesmen for Christie, said in an e-mail that the governor had no role in Arrisi’s communication,
and he referred questions to Leusner.  “The issue of a stay is still not settled by the Supreme
Court,” Leusner said in an e-mail. “The registrar was merely
advising that he is awaiting legal guidance.”  John Hoffman, the acting state attorney general, was denied
an Oct. 1 request for Jacobson to put the start date on hold,
leading the state to file an emergency appeal. Peter Aseltine, a
spokesman for Hoffman, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail.  Christie, 51, vetoed same-sex marriage legislation in
February 2012. A practicing Roman Catholic, he has said he
believes marriage should be restricted to one man and one woman.  The governor has said that voters should decide the issue
and that he would abide by the results. Democrats, who control
the legislature, have said marriage is a civil right that
doesn’t belong on the ballot.  A majority of  New Jersey  likely voters, 61 percent to 32
percent, said Christie should drop his appeal, according to a
Quinnipiac University poll released Oct. 10. Christie leads his
Democratic challenger, state Senator Barbara Buono, 62 percent
to 33 percent in next month’s election, the poll found. Buono,
60, whose daughter is openly gay, supports same-sex marriage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  