-- Natural Gas Advances in Survey on Colder Eastern U.S. Weather
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-10-18T11:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/natural-gas-advances-in-survey-on-colder-eastern-u-s-weather.html
Natural gas futures may climb next
week on speculation that colder-than-normal Eastern U.S. weather
will stoke demand for the heating fuel.  Seven of 12 analysts, or 58 percent, predicted that futures
will rise on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through Oct. 25.
Four, or 33 percent, said gas will stay the same and one
predicted prices will fall. Last week, 70 percent of
participants said gas would advance.  The East Coast to the Rocky Mountains will see below-normal
temperatures from Oct. 22 through Oct. 31, according to
Commodity Weather Group LLC. A stockpile gain last week was
probably closest to the five-year average in four weeks, based
on analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Data for last week
was delayed because of the U.S. government shutdown.  “Based on the last forecasts I saw, it’s still going to
start cooling down this weekend and into next week,” said
 Martin King , an analyst with FirstEnergy Capital Corp. in
Calgary. “We will start to see some space-heating demand. Once
we get the data, we will get a better sense of storage
injections.”  Natural gas futures slipped 1.9 cents, or 0.5 percent, to
$3.757 per million British thermal units during the first four
days of this week on the Nymex. Prices climbed to $3.869 on Oct.
16, the highest intraday price since June 21. The futures are up
12 percent this year.  The EIA will release its gas storage report, which was
originally scheduled for yesterday, on Oct. 22 and then resume
normal Thursday releases,  Jonathan Cogan , a spokesman for the
government agency in  Washington , said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  Cold Weather  The cold push next week into the Midwest and also into the
Deep South and the East is “the biggest event so far this
heating season,” that will result in above-normal demand,  Matt Rogers , president of CWG in Bethesda,  Maryland , said in a note
to clients yesterday.  The low temperature in  Chicago  on Oct. 24 may be 30 degrees
Fahrenheit (minus 1 Celsius), 13 below normal, according to
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,  Pennsylvania .  New York City 
will drop to 36 degrees, 12 lower than usual.  About 49 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating
while 39 percent use electricity, according to the Energy
Information Administration, the statistical arm of the Energy
Department.  Supply Forecasts  Gas inventories probably expanded by 77 billion cubic feet
in the week ended Oct. 11, based on the median of 17  analyst
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Expected gains ranged from 72
billion to 90 billion cubic feet. The five-year average increase
for the seven days is 75 billion.  Inventories totaled 3.577 trillion cubic feet in the week
ended Oct. 4, 1.6 percent above the five-year average for the
period, EIA data show.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex gas futures will probably
rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This week’s
results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  7      1      4  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  