-- Shutdown Not Yet Over for Companies Dealing With Backlogs
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-10-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/nci-to-us-airways-navigate-federal-government-s-backlogs.html
Just because the government is back
in business doesn’t mean business is back to work.  NCI Inc. (NCIT) , a computer-network designer that gets all its
sales from federal dollars, is recalling about 200 furloughed
workers only dozens at a time now that the shutdown has ended.
 US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and  American Airlines  need regulatory
clearance to add a half-dozen new planes to their fleets. Even
imported ingredients for pesticides await inspectors’ approval,
creating potential delays for farmers next spring.  “It’s red tape -- the rat has to get through the snake
before I can get people back,” said Brian Clark, president of
Reston, Virginia-based NCI, who brought 80 people including
himself back to action yesterday, with another 50 set for today.  Government workers returned to their jobs yesterday after
Congress agreed to fund spending temporarily, ending a 16-day
shutdown that Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services estimates cost
the  U.S. economy  $24 billion this quarter. Now that the money is
flowing again, the corporations and small-business owners who
count on federal contracts and approvals are still suffering
from the lost business and delayed decision making.  In Annandale,  Virginia , Micheal Davis said he’s worried
about how quickly his Davis-Paige Management Systems LLC will
receive payments tied to about $3 million in outstanding
invoices. He had furloughed 60 of his 190 employees after
federal agencies told him to stop work on a handful of contracts
for program management and other services.  “There are lots of invoices that haven’t been acted on,”
Davis said. He started getting requests from agencies to put his
team back on the job as early as 6 a.m. yesterday, and by 2 p.m.
he had recalled all but four workers.  Money Lost  Some small businesses ranging from Pete’s Diner & Carryout,
a 50-year-old Capitol Hill eatery in Washington, to the iconic
 Cliff House  restaurant in  San Francisco  can’t make back the
money they lost during the shutdown, when there were no federal
workers to buy meals or national parks were closed.  “I’m looking at a loss of sales of over $300,000,” said
Ralph Burgin, general manager at the Cliff House, which is
located on federal land as part of Golden Gate National
Recreation Area. The restaurant was closed most of the first
half of October and “we also lost weddings, pre-booked events,
because no one knew when we were going to open.”  Delaware North Cos. yesterday reopened the lodging, dining
and other services it operates at eight national parks,
including Yosemite and Yellowstone.  “We are encouraged by the volume of calls and reservations
we have seen today,” said Glen White, a spokesman for Buffalo,
New York-based Delaware North, which lost about $600,000 a day
during the shutdown. “We hope it’s a sign that there is some
pent-up demand.”  Industry Regulators  Airlines, telecommunications companies and medical centers
are working through delays caused by the loss of agencies
overseeing their industries.  The shutdown of the FAA’s aircraft registry in Oklahoma
City delayed delivery of more than 150 new aircraft with a value
of at least $1.9 billion, according to the General Aviation
Manufacturers Association trade group.  Workers at the registry will be returning to a backlog at
an office that handles more than 10,000 transactions a month and
had already fallen behind as a result of across-the-board budget
cuts imposed earlier this year.  “I don’t know when deliveries will resume, but it’s
obviously a positive development,” Philippe Poutissou, vice
president of marketing at  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s commercial aircraft
unit, who has planes destined for  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  “Let’s
see how quickly operations at FAA can resume.”  Aircraft Deliveries  US Airways  now is making plans to take delivery of an
 Airbus A330  from Toulouse, France, on Oct. 22, spokesman Todd Lehmacher said.  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s America Airlines has three Airbus
A319s on the tarmac in Dallas, another Airbus in Hamburg and a
 Boeing Co. (BA)  737-800 in Seattle.  The Federal Communications Commission posted a notice on
its website yesterday asking companies for patience as it
resumes normal operations, and it has asked companies to refrain
from filing some documents. The FCC had suspended consideration
of more than $6 billion in deals involving purchases of airwaves
licenses and television stations -- transactions involving  AT&T
Inc. (T) , Gannett Co.,  Tribune Co. (TRBAA)  and  Sinclair Broadcast Group Inc. (SBGI)   The part of the FCC website that lets companies register
new electronic devices came back to life.  “We’re pleased to see it’s up,” Danielle Coffey, vice
president of government affairs for the Telecommunications
Industry Association, said of the FCC site. “The longer this
had gone on, the worse it would have been.”  Medical Grants  The U.S. government shutdown interfered with operations at
major medical centers across the country, particularly those
whose work is funded by the federal government. At research
centers, new initiatives were delayed as the  National Institutes
of Health  suspended grant applications. The NIH reviews grants
three times a year, with one cycle occurring right now.  “The shutdown will affect the timing of those awards and
may impact their ability to move forward,” said Sundeep Khosla,
director of the Mayo Clinic Center for Clinical and
Translational Sciences.  Pesticide registrations also have been set back more than
two weeks. CropLife America, a trade group representing
pesticide makers including  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and  DuPont Co. (DD) , said
it will try to work with the Environmental Protection Agency to
head off such a situation in any future shutdowns.  “The potential exists that farmers may not have access to
new tools in time for the 2014 planting season,” Barbara Glenn,
the group’s senior vice president for science and regulatory
affairs, said yesterday in a statement.  Future Conflicts  The potential for more conflict still exists. There are
budget talks with a Dec. 13 target. This week’s agreement funds
the government at Republican-backed spending levels through Jan.
15 and suspends the debt limit through Feb. 7.  Americans were the most pessimistic about the nation’s
economic prospects in almost two years in October, as concern
mounted that continued political gridlock will hurt the
expansion. The monthly  Bloomberg Consumer Confidence Index (COMFBTWR) 
expectations gauge plunged to minus 31, the lowest level since
November 2011, from minus 9 in September, a report showed today.  “With the tea leaves I read, I’m not going to be one bit
surprised if we’re going through the same drill 90 days from
now,” said Clark, the executive at NCI. “The government’s
opened, but nothing changed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  