-- N.Y. Man Charged With Trying to Join Yemen Terror Group
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-10-18T18:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/new-york-man-charged-with-trying-to-join-terror-group.html
A  New York  man was arrested and
charged with attempting to fly to Yemen to join al-Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula, according to federal prosecutors.  The man, Marcos Alonso Zea, 25, was intercepted by customs
officials in the U.K. while on his way to Yemen in January 2012,
U.S. prosecutors said in a statement today. After his trip was
interrupted, Zea helped a friend, Justin Kaliebe, with his plans
to fly overseas and join the terrorist group, prosecutors said.  Zea is scheduled to appear today in federal court in
Central Islip, New York, where he has been indicted on charges
of conspiracy, attempt to provide material support to terrorists
and obstruction of evidence stored on computer drives, according
to prosecutors. Zea, a U.S. citizen, faces a maximum sentence of
life in prison, they said.  “Inspired by terrorist propaganda, Mr. Zea traveled abroad
in 2012 in a vain attempt to reach  Yemen , join al-Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula and fight violent jihad,” FBI Assistant
Director George Venizelos said in a statement.  Zea, after he learned he was under investigation, asked an
associate to erase or destroy computer hard drives containing
extremist materials, including issues of al-Qaeda-affiliated
Inspire magazine with articles such as “Which is Better:
Martyrdom or Victory,” “Why Did I Choose al-Qaeda” and “What
to Expect in Jihad,” according to prosecutors.  ‘Betrayed’ Country  “Despite being born and raised in the  United States , Zea
allegedly betrayed his country,” Brooklyn U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch said in the statement.  Kaliebe, 18, was arrested in January while trying to board
a flight from New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport
to Muscat, Oman, prosecutors said in a criminal complaint filed
at the time. He pleaded guilty in February to two counts and is
to be sentenced Dec. 6, prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Zea, 13-cr-00072, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York ( Central Islip ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in Brooklyn, New York,
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  