-- News Corp. Executive Greg Clayman Is Said to Leave for Vimeo
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   E r l i c h m a n   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-10-18T21:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/news-corp-executive-clayman-is-said-to-leave-for-diller-s-vimeo.html
News Corp . executive  Greg Clayman ,
once publisher of the company’s defunct digital newspaper  the
Daily , has left for a position with the video-sharing site
Vimeo, according to executives with knowledge of the matter.  Clayman, who oversaw  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s digital efforts, departed
within the past few weeks, according to two people who asked not
to be named because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.
His title at Vimeo, part of Barry Diller’s  IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI) 
holding company, will be general manager of audience networks,
another person said.  With the closing of the Daily, Clayman’s role changed. In
December, the company said he would share responsibility for
News Corp.’s digital strategy and investments with Chief
Technology Officer Paul Cheesbrough.  Ashley Huston , a spokeswoman for New York-based News Corp.,
publisher of the Wall Street Journal, declined to comment.
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with News
Corp. in providing financial news and hosting conferences.  Vimeo, a video-sharing service, has more than 14 million
registered users. It hosts user-supplied clips and gets revenue
from subscription fees and advertising.  Like all newspaper publishers, News Corp. is seeking to
increase its digital revenue amid a decline in readership and
print advertising. The company recently said it will  sever ties 
with conference and website AllThingsD and invest in the Wall
Street Journal’s conference and technology coverage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Erlichman in  New York  at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  