-- NRG Energy to Buy Edison Mission Energy for $2.64 Billion
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-10-18T23:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/nrg-energy-agrees-to-purchase-edison-mission-energy.html
NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) , the largest
independent U.S. electricity producer, agreed to buy most of the
assets of  Edison International (EIX) ’s bankrupt Edison Mission Energy
for $2.64 billion to expand its coal and wind holdings.  The purchase price consists of about 12.7 million NRG
shares with the balance to be paid in cash on hand, Princeton,
New Jersey-based NRG said today in a statement. It includes
about $1.06 billion expected to be on hand at Edison Mission on
closing, anticipated in the first quarter of 2014.  Edison Mission operates coal-burning plants with capacity
of 4,300 megawatts, enough to power about 3.4 million average
homes, based on Energy Department data. It also owns about 1,700
megawatts of wind-driven generation and runs combined heat-and-power plants at refineries owned by  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  Edison Mission
filed for bankruptcy in December due to a collapse in power
prices and rising pollution control costs.  “Virtually 100 percent of their assets, their particular
expertises and the balance of their technologies deployed
complement NRG’s own assets,” NRG Chief Executive Officer David Crane said in the statement.  NRG is picking up Midwestern coal plants that can be added
to its existing fleet in other U.S. regions and could provide
additional revenue if gas prices rebound, said Travis Miller,
an analyst for  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  “We think that NRG can
integrate these units and they didn’t pay very much from them,”
Miller said in a telephone interview.  Wind Farms  NRG will pay about $180 a kilowatt for Edison Mission’s
coal and gas units, Miller said.  Dynegy Inc. (DYN) ’s deal in March to
take over five coal-fired power plants with 4,119 megawatts in
 Illinois  had an implied value of $189 a kilowatt, according to
Morningstar.  Edison Mission’s wind farms with long-term contracts are a
“good fit” for NRG’s  NRG Yield Inc. (NYLD)  subsidiary, Miller said.  NRG may sell 1,600 megawatts included in its deal to NRG
Yield, including 1,100 megawatts of wind power, according to
NRG’s statement.  NRG rose 4.8 percent to $29.30 at the close in New York,
bringing the increase in the year to date to 27.5 percent. NRG
Yield rose 7.7 percent to $33.70, the most since its initial
public offering in July.  NRG will assume about $1.27 billion of Edison Mission non-recourse debt, Karen Cleeve, a spokeswoman, said by phone.  Edison Mission Energy plans to ask a bankruptcy judge in
 Chicago  to approve the deal. A hearing is set to occur “on or
before” Oct. 25, the statement showed.  Approval Needed  The transaction will also need approvals from the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, the
U.S. Department of Justice and the Public Utility Commission of
 Texas , NRG said.  Baker Botts LLP served as legal counsel to NRG. Deutsche
Bank Securities Inc. and Barclays Plc’s investment-banking unit
served as financial advisers to NRG. Kirkland & Ellis LLP served
as legal counsel to Edison Mission and JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Perella Weinberg Partners, LP served as financial advisers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  