-- Oil-Sands Output Cut as TransCanada Restores Gas Delivery
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n   a n d   E l i o t   C a r o o m
-- 2013-10-18T13:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/oil-sands-output-cut-as-transcanada-restores-gas-delivery.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  was working to
restore gas deliveries to customers in  Alberta  after a pipeline
rupture that caused at least four oil-sands producers to curb
output, triggering a spike in Canadian  oil prices .  TransCanada’s North Central Corridor system resumed gas
shipments to “most” customers after isolating a pipe break and
was working with others to restore service, the Calgary-based
company said yesterday.  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO) ’s Kearl oil-sands
project and  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) ’s Horizon upgrader
halted output while the Syncrude upgrader stopped shipping
product.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) ’s Fort McMurray plant reduced rates.  The drop in production from the plants, with a total
capacity of as much as 920,000 barrels a day, sent Canadian
crude prices higher yesterday, with Western Canada Select oil
advancing $1.20 a barrel against the U.S. benchmark West Texas
Intermediate and Syncrude gaining $1, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. WCS climbed another $1.10 to a four-week high as
of 9:02 a.m.  New York  time today.  “Narrowing differentials for WCS and Syncrude are in
reaction to reports that CNRL, Syncrude and Suncor are slowing
or shutting production,” David Bouckhout, senior commodity
strategist for Toronto-Dominion Bank, said in an interview from
Calgary. “Production is down on this pipeline rupture and
there’s no clarity on how long it will last.”  Process units at Imperial’s Kearl complex were brought
“into a safe-park mode,” halting bitumen output, Pius Rolheiser, a spokesman for the company in Alberta, said by e-mail yesterday.  Production Curtailed  The Syncrude upgrader isn’t shipping product, Siren Fisekci, a spokeswoman in Calgary for  Canadian Oil Sands Ltd. (COS) ,
the project’s largest owner, said yesterday.  Canadian Natural shut the Horizon upgrader after initially
lowering output, and heavy-oil operations at Woodenhouse in
Alberta were slowed after gas supplies were disrupted, the
company said yesterday by e-mail.  Several natural gas-fired power units that serve the oil
industry reduced net generation yesterday, including ones that
serve Suncor’s Fort McMurray upgrader, the Syncrude project and
Canadian Natural’s Horizon upgrader, according to Genscape Inc.
Those units increased power late yesterday and early today.  Suncor’s unit had output of about 319 megawatts at 7:54
a.m. New York time today, up from 255 MW yesterday and below the
typical rate of more than 700 MW seen for most of October.  The unit serving the Syncrude project had output of about
271 MW at 7:54 a.m., up from 249 MW yesterday and below typical
rates of 350 to 400 megawatts seen for most of October.
Horizon’s unit produced about 70 MW at 7:37 a.m., up from zero
MW yesterday and below the typical rate of more than 100 for
most of the last month.  TransCanada detected a pressure drop on a section of its
North Central Corridor system at about 2:50 a.m. local time
yesterday, according to an e-mailed statement. The company is
still investigating the cause of the line break.  While TransCanada has resumed service on a 24-inch  gas
pipeline  that’s part of the corridor system, the 36-inch line
that ruptured remains shut, Rebecca Taylor, a spokeswoman for
Canada’s  National Energy Board , said by telephone yesterday. The
line will remain out of service until the board approves it to
restart, said Taylor, who didn’t immediately know how many
customers the pipe serves.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net ;
Eliot Caroom in New York at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  