-- Morgan Stanley Says Cost to Continue Even as Goal Reached
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-10-18T17:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/morgan-stanley-says-cost-to-continue-even-as-goal-reached.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  isn’t done with its
cost-cutting measures even as the firm reached the ratio it
hoped to attain when it set a $1.6 billion reduction goal, Chief
Financial Officer Ruth Porat said.  The bank’s third-quarter costs were less than 79 percent of
its revenue, excluding higher-than-normal litigation expenses,
Porat, 55, said today on a conference call. The bank earlier
this year set out a goal of cutting annual expenses by $1.6
billion, which implied an expense ratio of 79 percent.  “We’ve achieved it, but we’re only partially the way
through executing it,” Porat said. “The math would say that
we’re there, but we are continuing to execute on the programs
that we identified back at the end of 2012, so we’re feeling
very good about our ability to continue to reduce the expense
base.”  Chief Executive Officer James Gorman, 55, joined
competitors including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in cutting the
share of revenue set aside for compensation, the company’s
biggest expense. Firmwide pay costs represented 49 percent of
adjusted revenue in the first nine months of the year, down from
52 percent in 2012.  Morgan Stanley has reduced headcount by more than 5,000
since the end of 2011, including 1,700 job cuts at the beginning
of this year. The bank also closed some international offices,
moving employees to regional centers, and sold its European
wealth-management business to Credit Suisse Group AG.  “There is a culture of expense management across the firm
that we haven’t seen for a long time,” Gorman said. “Whenever
I travel around the world, local offices, sub-business groups,
everybody understands the program, everybody understands what
we’re doing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  