-- Morgan Stanley Says It Can Reach FICC Goals With Lower Revenue
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-10-18T19:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/morgan-stanley-says-it-can-reach-ficc-goals-with-lower-revenue.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  can reach its return-on-equity goals for fixed-income trading even if revenue falls
below $6 billion, the average for the past three years, Chief
Financial Officer Ruth Porat said.  Expense cuts and reductions in risk-weighted assets can
produce an ROE for the business above the New York-based firm’s
cost of equity even with annual revenue of less than $6 billion,
Porat, 55, said today on a conference call. The bank previously
said its cost of equity was 10 percent, and it posted an average
of $6 billion in fixed-income revenue in the past three years.  Porat’s statement means Morgan Stanley can produce a higher
margin from trading in the fixed-income, currency and commodity
unit, or FICC, or devote less capital to the business. A person
with knowledge of the matter said in May that unit would have to
generate at least $1.5 billion of average revenue each quarter
to earn a 10 percent return on equity.  “The main thing is controlling that which we control to
drive ROEs greater than the cost of capital within fixed
income,” Porat said today. “If there’s one metric to stay
focused on, it’s the ROE. That’s the way we’re managing the
business.”  Morgan Stanley generated $3.5 billion in fixed-income
trading revenue in the first nine months of this year, down from
$4.8 billion in the same period of 2012. This year’s revenue is
less than half any of its major U.S. competitors.  Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 55, said in June that
four of the five units within fixed income failed to meet their
cost of equity in 2012. Once the firm completed its risk-weighted asset reduction plans, four of the groups would exceed
that level, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  