-- Morgan Stanley Wins Dismissal of $600 Million Dexia Suit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-10-18T18:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/morgan-stanley-wins-dismissal-of-600-million-dexia-suit.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  won the dismissal of
a suit filed by the lender  Dexia SA (DEXB) , which accused the bank of
misrepresenting information about loans underlying more than
$600 million in mortgage-backed securities.  Dexia filed the suit in New York State Supreme Court in
 Manhattan  in January 2012 over 29 residential mortgage-backed
securities bought by its unit FSA Asset Management LLC from
Morgan Stanley for $626 million in 2006 and 2007. The securities
were assigned to Dexia and two entities in June 2009 and had
been downgraded to junk status by the time the suit was filed.  Morgan Stanley asked Justice Eileen Bransten to dismiss the
case, saying that Dexia didn’t have the right to sue because the
transaction assigned only ownership and contractual rights, not
claims. Morgan Stanley also argued that FSA couldn’t bring fraud
claims because it received face value for the securities and
didn’t suffer damages.  Bransten agreed with New York-based Morgan Stanley in a
ruling dated Oct. 16. FSA Asset Management didn’t assign fraud
claims to Dexia and didn’t suffer damages, the judge ruled.  “FSAM suffered no losses on the RMBS it purchased; it
received exactly the purchase price upon the sale to the Dexia
plaintiffs,” Bransten wrote. “There is also no allegation that
pass-through payments due to FSAM as holders of the
participation certificates were missed. To the extent FSAM did
receive pass-through payments, the RMBS were profitable to them,
and there can be no claim of damages.”  Former Leader  Once the world’s leading lender to municipalities, Dexia,
based in Brussels and Paris, is being dismantled by Belgium and
 France  because it could no longer fund itself when the
sovereign-debt crisis dried up short-term financing. The bank
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail request for comment on
the ruling.  “Even if the court is to accept as true that there have
been material misrepresentations” the claims must be dismissed,
Bransten said. “Deception without damages is not actionable.”  The case is Dexia SA/NV v. Morgan Stanley, 650231/2012,  New
York  State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 