-- Most German Stocks Rise as DAX Heads for Weekly Advance
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-10-18T13:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/most-german-stocks-rise-as-dax-heads-for-weekly-advance.html
Most  German stocks  rose, with the
benchmark  DAX (DAX)  Index heading for its second weekly gain, as data
showed China’s economic growth accelerated in the third quarter.  Rational AG (RAA)  surged 4.7 percent after Bankhaus Lampe KG
advised investors to buy the shares.  Bauer AG (B5A)  jumped the most in
eight months after Berenberg Bank AG upgraded the stock.  Adidas
AG (ADS) , the second-largest producer of sporting goods, gained 2.2
percent after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. added the company to its
conviction buy list.  SAP AG (SAP)  slipped 1.3 percent.  The DAX added 0.3 percent to 8,837.83 at 3:29 p.m. in
 Frankfurt , extending its weekly gain to 1.3 percent. Three
shares advanced for every two that fell. The gauge has climbed
2.8 percent this month as U.S. lawmakers reached a last-minute
deal to end a fiscal impasse and optimism grew that  Janet
Yellen , nominated to head the  Federal Reserve , won’t rush to
withdraw stimulus. The HDAX Index rose 0.4 percent today.  “The third quarter has been stronger in China,” Witold Bahrke, who helps oversee $55 billion as a senior strategist at
PFA Asset Management in Copenhagen, said by phone. “But there
are also early signs that this will be as good as it gets and we
will see a renewed slowdown in the fourth quarter, which is part
of a bigger picture of a macro economic slowdown. This is a
challenge for German exporters.”  China’s  gross domestic product  increased 7.8 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, the National Bureau of
Statistics said. That matched the median estimate of economists
in a Bloomberg survey. The world’s second-biggest economy posted
GDP growth of 7.7 percent and 7.5 percent in the first two
quarters, slipping from a 7.9 percent expansion in the final
three months of 2012.  Rational Rises  Rational, the biggest maker of automated cookers for
professional kitchens, surged 4.7 percent to 218 euros after
Bankhaus Lampe upgraded its recommendation on the shares to buy
from hold, citing signs of recovery in Europe in the third
quarter. The brokerage increased its price estimate on the
shares to 230 euros from 200 euros.  Bauer jumped 6.6 percent to 20.80 euros, the biggest gain
since Feb. 5, as Berenberg upgraded the shares to buy with a
price estimate of 24 euros. The stock is cheap relative to
earnings and is underperforming the  construction industry ,
according to Berenberg.  Adidas climbed 2.2 percent to 83.45 euros after Goldman
Sachs added the shares to its conviction buy list. Adidas will
deliver sustained growth, according to the brokerage, which set
a target price of 115.30 euros on the shares.  Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s biggest retailer, advanced 2.7 percent
to 34.32 euros after Societe Generale SA increased its target
price on the shares to 34 euros from 26 euros, citing growing
confidence in the company’s home market.  SAP, the largest maker of business-management software,
retreated 1.2 percent to 52.67 euros.  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 84 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  