-- Perry’s Failed Texas Prayers Drive Water Borrowing: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/perry-s-failed-texas-prayers-drive-water-borrowing-muni-credit.html
Texas  Governor  Rick Perry  asked
residents to pray for rain in 2011 during the worst drought in
state history. Now he wants voters to approve spending
$2 billion on top of a record borrowing to boost water supplies.  The Republican governor has been urging support for a
ballot measure to tap state reserves for water projects. The
money would be used to reduce debt costs for as much as
$6 billion of unissued bonds that voters passed two years ago.  Localities accessing the program will benefit from Texas’s
declining relative borrowing costs after it won a AAA grade from
 Standard & Poor’s  last month, making it one of nine states with
the top mark from all three major credit companies. Yield
spreads of the second-most-populous state are the lowest since
at least January, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The water bonds would be viewed as very secure
investments” because of the top ratings and an  economy  aided by
oil and gas, said Dick Berry, who manages more than $100 million
in municipal obligations at Brasada Capital Management LP in
Houston.  Almost a third of the country is suffering at least
moderate drought, according to the  National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration . About 94 percent of Texas, home to
26 million people, is experiencing some level of drought, based
on measures such as rainfall, soil moisture and crop damage,
according to the Texas Water Development Board.  Population Boom  State officials want to use the funds for reservoirs,
desalination plants and distribution systems as the population
is forecast to grow by 83 percent to 47 million in the next 50
years, said Carlos Rubinstein, chairman of the Water Development
Board, which would oversee the program. In 2011, the state had
its worst drought on record, with all 254 counties included,
said Rubinstein.  The impact can be seen in damaged wheat, corn and cotton
crops, falling lake levels and heightened fire risks. San
Angelo, a central Texas city of about 96,000, may run out of
water next year. The disaster caused almost $9 billion of
agricultural losses in 2011, according to a 2012 report by
Comptroller Susan Combs.  “We need to invest if we want to be prepared for growth
and any reductions in capacity,” Rubinstein said. “It drives
every aspect of our economy.”  Loaned Money  Proceeds from the bonds, which may include general-obligation and revenue debt, will be loaned to localities
developing new supplies, Rubinstein said. The $2 billion would
give borrowers flexibility to pay over a longer period or at
lower interest rates.  Texas voters on Nov. 5 will consider whether to change the
state constitution to allow use of the $2 billion. The state
will move forward with the $6 billion of issuance regardless,
said Merry Klonower, a spokeswoman for the Water Development
Board.  Top-rated munis are beating the $3.7 trillion municipal
market in 2013 as  Detroit ’s record bankruptcy filing has
penalized weaker credits. While the broad market has lost 3.8
percent, on pace for the worst year since 2008, AAA local debt
is down only 2.2 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data
show.  Texas should benefit from that backdrop, said Andrew Garvey, senior managing director at Dallas-based Orix USA, which
manages about $25 billion.  Hard Market  “The market is hard if you are a lower-rated credit, but
Texas is a premier credit,” Garvey, said. “That kind of credit
should have no problem in this market.”  Texas 10-year obligations yield about 2.71 percent, or
about  0.13 percentage point  less than benchmark debt, Bloomberg
data show. Interest rates on the state’s borrowings haven’t been
that far below the average AAA muni since at least January.  Before voters cleared the $6 billion in 2011, the Water
Development Board had sold about $3.3 billion of the $4.23
billion authorized for water projects since 1957, according to
board documents.  If voters approve use of the  reserve fund , the state
projects it would still have $7.6 billion in rainy-day cash in
2015, about 8.1 percent of general-fund spending.  Economy Driver  The expanding Texas economy, which is fueling demand for
water, has helped boost the reserves, which gets money from
taxes and extraction of oil and natural gas. The state collected
a record $4.5 billion in such levies in the year ended Aug. 31,
according to the Austin-based Texas Taxpayers and Research
Association, a nonpartisan group that studies state and local
fiscal policies.  “The fiscal health of the fund is strong and will not be
harmed,” the association said in an Oct. 8 statement. Next
year, voters will be asked to use part of the fund for
transportation needs.  A political action committee led by House Speaker Joe Straus, a Republican, has raised about $950,000 to urge voters
to support the measure, according to Texas Ethics Commission
reports.  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , which owns a petrochemical plant in
Freeport, Texas, and the Associated General Contractors, have
contributed more than half the total.  The measure faces opposition from Tea Party groups who are
against spending the rainy-day fund, and from environmentalists
who say it will do little good.  Linda Curtis, a political activist who organized news
conferences opposing the bond measure, said the proceeds may be
used to fund projects favored by Perry and business leaders
instead of those that have the most merit.  “Projects with the biggest political pull will get
funded,” she said.  Voters’ Nod  Voters support the measure by a 2-to-1 margin, according to
a poll by the  University of Texas  and the Texas Tribune released
Oct. 14. Those surveyed favored the measure by 52 percent to 19
percent. About one-fourth said they hadn’t decided. The margin
of error was 3.46 percentage points.  Perry, 63, issued his proclamation calling for three days
of “prayer for rain in the state of Texas” in April 2011 after
the state hadn’t experienced any rainfall for three months.
During that time more than 8,000 wildfires took several lives
and burned about 1.8 million acres of land, including 400 homes.  “Occasionally, drought is part of our lives in Texas,”
Perry said at an Oct. 10 news conference at Lake Travis near
Austin to tout the plan.  “Other states are watching what we are doing,” he said.
“When we compete with them for a major expansion site or a
relocation for major employers, you better believe water is part
of the conversation.”  Issuance Increase  Issuers nationwide have scheduled about $9.5 billion of
bond sales in the next 30 days, close to a two-month high, as
borrowing picks up after the agreement to raise the U.S. debt
ceiling.  Localities are borrowing as the  interest rate  on AAA 10-year munis is  2.84 percent , the highest since Sept. 20,
Bloomberg data show. That compares with  2.59 percent  on similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 110 percent, compared with an average of 94 percent since
2001. It has exceeded 100 percent since June 24. The higher the
figure, the cheaper munis are compared with federal securities.  Following is a pending sale:  Minnesota plans to sell about $768 million in general-obligation securities next week, with some proceeds marked for
highway projects and refinancing, Bloomberg data show. The
securities will be sold through competitive bidding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  