-- Petrobras Activists Winning Fuel Battle Signal New Tone
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e   a n d   G i u l i a   C a m i l l o
-- 2013-10-18T15:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/petrobras-activists-winning-fuel-battle-signal-new-tone.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  minority
shareholders are poised to secure their first victory after
winning a board seat in April.  Months of lobbying by investors led by  Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc (ADN)  spurred Energy Minister Edison Lobao’s assurance
on Oct. 14 the government would let state-run Petrobras raise
gasoline prices, after fuel subsidies caused 6.77 billion reais
($3.15 billion) in first-half net losses at the refining unit.  The Petrobras case shows how minority investors in  Brazil ,
the world’s second-largest developing economy, are increasingly
seeking a voice in management and strategy after long shunning
such activism. They’re making themselves heard at some of
Brazil’s biggest companies, said Jose Carlos Reis de Magalhaes,
founder and chairman of  Tarpon Investimentos SA (TRPN3) , which pushed
for a new board president at foodmaker  BRF SA (BRFS3)  this year.  “In recent years, we’ve seen the strengthening of both
local and foreign investor involvement,” said Pedro Rudge, a
partner at Rio de Janeiro-based Leblon Equities, which has won
board seats at Saraiva SA and  Springs Global Participacoes SA (SGPS3) 
and shaped strategy at both companies. “This year, big
investors have begun participating in meetings.”  Such activism follows a push in the U.S. by investors
chasing ever-larger companies, from Microsoft Corp. to Apple
Inc. Companies with a market value of more than $10 billion
accounted for 5.7 percent of targets this year, more than double
2010’s level, according to researcher Activist Insight.  Activism Study  The Brazilian investors association is studying behavior on
boards and at shareholder meetings to determine the level of
activism among minority shareholders, President Mauro Cunha
said. Amec, as the group is known, says its ranks jumped almost
80 percent to 62 members since 2006.  The boardroom struggle at Petrobras came amid President
Dilma Rousseff administration’s reluctance to raise fuel prices
on concern such a step would slow  consumer spending . Brazil’s
economy may grow at a 2.48 percent rate in 2013, according to an
Oct. 11 central bank survey of economists, down from 3.26
percent in the first survey of the year.  For minority shareholders, charging more for gasoline
became urgent as  profits  at the Rio de Janeiro-based company
tumbled 36 percent in 2012 to 21.2 billion reais. Aberdeen
championed the appointment of Cunha as a director, making him
Petrobras’ first minority shareholder representative. This week,
Energy Minister Lobao signaled that prices were going up.  “We’re confident that a new increase in fuel prices will
eventually happen,” he said in Brasilia. Petrobras rose 0.7
percent to 18.33 reais at 12:45 p.m. in  Sao Paulo  trading.  Profit Boost  A 5 percent increase for gasoline and diesel would produce
a 1 percent boost in Petrobras’ 2014 estimated net revenue while
raising estimated profits 10 percent, Caio Carvalhal, a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. analyst in Sao Paulo, wrote in an Oct. 9 report.  “The activism on Petrobras worked out quite well,” said
 Nick Robinson , head of Brazilian equities at U.K.-based
Aberdeen, which manages about $15 billion of Latin American
shares. Petrobras didn’t respond to requests for comment.  “Some companies understand completely the benefits of good
governance,” Robinson said in a telephone interview from Sao
Paulo. “Some companies don’t have that view because they may
have a controlling shareholder that doesn’t have the same
interest as the minority shareholders.”  Springs Global  Among the highest-profile examples of shareholder activism
was  Leblon Equities (LEBLONG) ’ entry onto the board of textile maker
Springs Global in April 2012.  With a 25 percent stake in Springs Global, Leblon Equities
seated two directors and helped the Montes Claros, Brazil-based
manufacturer recast itself as a retailer, said Marcelo Mesquita,
a  fund manager  at the firm who helps oversee 670 million reais.
Springs Global had 229 sales outlets, including e-commerce
points, by the end of the second quarter, according to a company
statement.  “We enter companies that we think are very cheap that
somehow the market is not seeing the value that they can have in
the future,” Mesquita said by telephone from  Rio de Janeiro .
“Usually this value comes from a transformation. If things stay
the same, it’s unlikely that the stock will move.”  Springs Global should return to  profit  next year, according
to Mesquita. Pedro Baptista, a Nau Securities Ltd. analyst,
projects 2014 net income of 49 million reais. The company didn’t
respond to requests for comment.  Stock Slump  While that would end net losses dating to 2010,
shareholders aren’t yet betting on a rebound. The stock tumbled
31 percent this year through yesterday, trailing the 9.2 percent
drop for Brazil’s benchmark Ibovespa index. Springs Global
closed at 2 reais.  The new stirrings of shareholder activism mark the latest
steps in an evolution in Brazilian corporate governance that
includes the creation the Novo Mercado in 2000. It’s the segment
of the stock exchange with the highest governance standards,
including a one-share, one-vote rule.  Investors are still learning how to navigate boardrooms,
said Guilherme Affonso Ferreira, who is chief executive officer
of closely held investment firm Bahema Participacoes SA and
serves as a director at publicly traded companies including
supermarket chain Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de
Acucar and homebuilder  Gafisa SA. (GFSA3)   “It still hasn’t reached an ‘optimum’ level, we’ve got a
long way to go,” Ferreira said by telephone from Sao Paulo.
“Some funds are activists, but I’d say that the bulk of
resources are allocated to funds that want to keep a distance.”  Diving In  Tarpon Investimentos isn’t reluctant to get involved.  The fund, which is focused on long-term investments, joined
with pension fund Caixa de Previdencia dos Funcionarios do Banco
do Brasil this year to get former Pao de Acucar Chairman Abilio Diniz elected to lead the board at BRF, Brazil’s biggest food
company.  Annual sales gains at Sao Paulo-based BRF slowed to 13
percent or less starting in 2011 after growth of at least 40
percent in each of the preceding three years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, and the two outside investors sought to
spur growth and increase efficiency.  BRF has announced management changes, and new CEO Claudio Galeazzi said on Aug. 14 that he’s considering selling forest
assets and poultry farms.  “Activism not only changes status quo and brings new
proposals,” Tarpon Investimentos’s Magalhaes said. “It also
takes responsibility for what it does and is conscious of the
impact it creates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net ;
Giulia Camillo in Sao Paulo at 
 gcamillo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  