-- Phillips 66 Said to Idle Borger Catalytic Cracker for Repair
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2013-10-18T21:34:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/phillips-66-said-to-idle-borger-catalytic-cracker-for-repairs.html
Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s Borger, Texas, oil
 refinery  may be forced to keep a fluid catalytic cracker shut
for at least two weeks for repairs, a person with knowledge of
the situation said.  The No. 40 fluid catalytic cracker, one of two of the
systems at the refinery, is shut for work on its regenerator,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public.  Borger reported to the Texas Commission on Environmental
Quality on Sept. 24 that it would perform planned maintenance on
Unit 40 through Oct. 3. On Oct. 13, the refinery reported
emissions from a process upset. Two days later, the company
reported there might be flaring related to the startup of the
unit.  Conventional, 85-octane gasoline to be blended with
ethanol, or CBOB, in the  Gulf Coast  dropped 4.25 cents to 17.25
cents a gallon below futures on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
at 3:50 p.m., the biggest drop since Sept. 4.  The Borger refinery has a second catalytic cracker known as
Unit 29, or No. 29. The crackers process fuel oil and other
products from crude distillation into gasoline and diesel fuel.
An extended outage may force a refinery to reduce crude
processing rates.  Rich Johnson , a spokesman at Phillips 66’s headquarters in
Houston, said there is planned maintenance under way at Borger.  The plant, a joint venture of Phillips and  Cenovus Energy
Inc. (CVE) , has a capacity of 146,000 barrels a day, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It processes mostly medium-sour crude
from West Texas, the Texas Panhandle, Wyoming and Canada,
according to Phillips’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  