-- Philippine Yields at 2-Month Low as Central Bank Likely on Hold
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2013-10-18T06:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/philippine-yields-at-2-month-low-as-central-bank-likely-on-hold.html
Philippine five-year bonds rose this
week, driving the yield to a two-month low, after a central bank
official signaled  interest rates  will stay on hold until early
next year. The peso headed for a weekly gain.  Felipe Medalla, a member of the monetary policy board, told
reporters today that the overnight repurchase rate and rates on
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas’ special-deposit accounts will
probably remain unchanged until the first quarter. All 10
economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict the benchmark borrowing
rate will be left at a record low of 3.5 percent on Oct. 24.  “There is no immediate concern on inflation so the central
bank will probably keep rates low for the time being,” said
Lito Mercado, head of trading at Rizal Commercial Banking Corp.
in Manila.  The yield on the 2.125 percent notes due May 2018 fell 10
basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 2.93 percent this
week as of 2:17 p.m. in  Manila , according to Tradition Financial
Services. That’s the lowest level since Aug. 14.  Philippine local-currency bonds handed investors a 6.4
percent return this year, the best performance among 10 Asian
debt indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  Inflation risks are “broadly balanced,” Bangko Sentral
Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo told reporters yesterday.
Average consumer prices are “slightly below target and can inch
up a bit” this year, Medalla said in Manila today. The central
bank is targeting inflation to average 3 percent to 5 percent
this year and next and 2 percent to 4 percent in 2015.  Consumer prices climbed 2.7 percent in September from a
year earlier, quickening from a four-year low of 2.1 percent in
August, official data show. Bangko Sentral kept interest rates
on 1.6 trillion pesos ($37 billion) of  SDA  funds at 2 percent
last month after three reductions earlier this year.  The peso rose 0.2 percent this week to 43.067 per dollar
and was little changed today, according to prices from Tullett
Prebon Plc. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell nine
basis points to 6.15 percent from a week earlier and was steady
on the day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  