-- Baltimore Port Fully Reopens on Contract-Extension Deal
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C h e n
-- 2013-10-19T01:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/port-of-baltimore-reopens-partially-for-container-work.html
Baltimore’s port, a gateway for
autos from  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) ,
fully reopened tonight after an agreement was reached to
temporarily extend local contracts. Longshoremen had partially
resumed work earlier today, leaving car shipments still idled.  Workers have agreed to a 90-day extension on local
contracts following talks today between Local 333 of the
International Longshoremen’s Association and the Steamship Trade
Association of Baltimore Inc., said Richard Scher, a spokesman
for the Maryland Port Administration. The extension ends the
stoppage and all cargo will be worked, Scher said in an e-mailed
statement.  Baltimore’s Local 333 announced a work stoppage on Oct. 15
after failed negotiations with the Steamship Trade Association
over its local contract, which covers the handling of items such
as automobiles, said Jim McNamara, a spokesman for the ILA. The
other three chapters, including 1429, which have no contract
disputes, joined 333 in the strike.  The port had partially reopened earlier today with the
chapters working under the master contract, a separate agreement
that covers containers and roll-on, roll-off farm and
construction heavy equipment.  Local 333 is the only local union that handles autos, Scher
said. Negotiations between Local 333 and the Steamship Trade
Association had taken place today, member Gwendolyn Williamson
said in an earlier phone interview.  The four chapters and the Steamship Trade Association
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment tonight.  A shipment of Mazda autos that was due in Baltimore today
was delayed en route for reasons unrelated to the strike, said
Nick Beard, a spokesman for the carmaker.  Mazda signed a five-year contract in August that will bring
as many as 65,000 vehicles a year to the port from  Japan .  Baltimore also handles autos from BMW,  Fiat SpA (F)  and  Daimler
AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz. BMW hasn’t had to use a contingency plan for
the port stoppage, Kenn Sparks, a spokesman for BMW North
America, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Chen in  New York  at 
 cchen509@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  