-- Previ to Invest With BlackRock, JPMorgan Funds in Overseas Bet
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-10-18T20:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/previ-to-invest-with-blackrock-jpmorgan-funds-in-overseas-bet.html
Banco do Brasil SA ’s pension fund,
Latin America’s largest, will invest in U.S. and European stocks
through funds of money managers including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  as it seeks to diversify holdings.  Previ, as the Rio de Janeiro-based pension fund is known,
is setting up its first vehicle to invest in large foreign
firms, Chief Investment Officer Rene Sanda said today, adding
that it will also invest through funds run by Schroders Plc and
Franklin Templeton Investments. The fund, in which Previ will
have a 25 percent stake will be managed by BB Gestao de Recursos
DTVM SA, the asset manager that is also a Banco do Brasil unit,
he said. Other Brazilian pension funds will participate in the
fund.  “BB DTVM will invest in funds already constituted by these
four managers, it’s a feeder,” Sanda told reporters today in
Rio. The objective is “portfolio diversification, not
returns.”  Previ, which manages 164 billion reais ($75.4 billion) for
Banco do Brasil employees, has approved global investments of as
much as 340 million reais this year in foreign stocks that may
include  Google Inc. (GOOG) , said Antonio Luiz Benevides, executive
manager of the fund. The pension fund may also invest in fixed-income and private equity abroad in the future as it accelerates
real-estate investments in Brazil, he said last month.  The fund for international stocks is expected to be set up
by mid-November, Sanda said today, declining to give an estimate
of its size until completion.  Brazil’s pension funds reported an average loss of 0.7
percent in the first half, according to to the Brazilian pension
fund association, known as Abrapp. Brazil’s benchmark Ibovespa
index  fell  22 percent during that period while Google, based in
Mountain View,  California , rallied 25 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  