-- Prudential Abandons Fight Over Risk Designation From Lew’s Panel
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-10-19T04:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/prudential-abandons-fight-with-lew-s-panel-on-systemic-risk.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, abandoned its challenge to a
U.S. designation from a Treasury Department panel that subjects
the company to increased regulatory oversight.  The insurer opted against filing a  lawsuit  seeking to
overturn its status as a systemically important financial
institution, or SIFI,  Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential said
yesterday in a statement.  The firm decided that “after careful review, it will not
seek to rescind the designation,” according to the statement.  Prudential, led by Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld,
in July became the first company to challenge a SIFI designation
from the Financial Stability Oversight Council. The council,
which counts Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew as chairman,
rejected Prudential’s appeal in September, and the insurer had
30 days in which to file a court challenge.  “Material distress at Prudential could pose a threat to
the financial stability of the  United States ,” Lew’s panel said
in September.  The council was authorized by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act and
charged with preventing another financial crisis by identifying
too-big-to-fail firms whose collapse could threaten the economy.
The vote to designate Prudential was 7 to 2, with Edward DeMarco, acting director of the  Federal Housing Finance Agency ,
and Roy Woodall, a former Kentucky insurance regulator, voting
against.  Asset Quality  “No large financial institution has more than a de minimus
amount of its equity capital exposed to Prudential,” DeMarco
said in his dissent. The FSOC’s analysis of Prudential’s balance
sheet “does not fully take account of the stability of
Prudential’s liabilities, the quality of its assets, or the
strength of its equity capital.”  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and  General Electric
Co. (GE) ’s finance unit were also labeled non-bank systemically
important financial institutions this year, and neither company
contested the decision. AIG took a U.S. bailout that swelled to
$182.3 billion amid the financial crisis. Prudential didn’t take
rescue funds.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, has said it’s
in the last stage of review to be designated systemically
important. Steve Kandarian, MetLife’s CEO, has said his firm
shouldn’t be deemed a SIFI. New York-based MetLife has about
 $816 billion  of assets, compared with $706 billion at
Prudential, as of June 30.  Leverage, Liquidity  The  Federal Reserve  can impose tighter capital, leverage
and liquidity rules on SIFIs and demand measures including
stress-testing and wind-down plans. The largest U.S. banks are
subject to similar measures. The final rules for non-banks that
are deemed SIFIs haven’t been written. Insurers have
traditionally been monitored by state regulators in the U.S.  MetLife and Prudential have been pressing the Fed to avoid
regulating insurers with bank-like capital rules tied to the
Basel III standard. MetLife has said bank standards may miss
risks related to insurance liabilities.  Prudential will work with overseers to “develop regulatory
standards that take into account the differences between
insurance companies and banks, particularly in the use of
capital,” the company said in its statement. Suzanne Elio, a
Treasury spokeswoman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  