-- Rajoy Meets Latin America Leaders as Economy Shows Signs of Life
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2013-10-18T14:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/rajoy-meets-latin-america-leaders-as-economy-shows-signs-of-life.html
Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy
meets with Latin American leaders today in Panama, where Madrid-based companies are helping expand the canal and build the
nation’s first subway as construction slumps at home.  Facing declining domestic demand and a  European debt
crisis , Spanish companies have sought investment and trade from
former colonies as the region outpaces Spain in economic growth.
This week’s Ibero-American summit comes as Spain’s economy shows
signs that it has stabilized amid a U.S. political stalemate
that almost pushed the world’s largest economy into default.  “Latin America cannot forget Europe,” Spanish Prince Felipe de Borbon y Grecia, who accompanied Rajoy, said at an
opening ceremony yesterday in Panama City. “We have a long way
to go, but the Spanish economy is finding its way.”  Rajoy and Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto are among 13
heads of state that will attend talks over the next two days in
 Panama  City. Venezuela, Brazil and Argentina are not sending
their presidents, according to meeting organizers.  In his opening remarks yesterday, Panama President Ricardo
Martinelli said the summit will give businesses leaders and
government officials a chance to boost foreign investment in
Latin America’s fastest-growing economy for the past two years.
Panama’s  economy  expanded 7.6 percent in the second quarter from
a year earlier.  Rekindle Growth  Rajoy needs exports and tourism to rekindle growth as tax
increases, spending cuts and an unemployment rate of more than
26 percent undermine domestic spending. Madrid-based Sacyr SA is
helping build a third set of locks as part of the $5.25 billion
expansion of the Panama Canal, while another Spanish builder,
 Fomento de Construcciones y Contratas SA , is nearing completion
of a subway system in Panama City, Central America’s first.  Spain expects European Union members to agree next month
that its banks don’t need further state aid as the euro region’s
fourth-largest economy starts to  recover  from a six-year slump.
Its 12-month borrowing costs fell this week to the lowest since
April 2010, when  Greece  requested its first bailout from the EU.  Spain’s economy will expand 0.6 percent next year,
according to the median estimate of 43 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  