-- Red Sox Defeat Tigers 4-3 to Take 3-2 Lead in MLB Playoff Series
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r   a n d   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-10-18T05:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/red-sox-defeat-tigers-4-3-to-take-3-2-lead-in-mlb-playoff-series.html
Mike Napoli  hit a home run and
scored on a wild pitch to lead the Boston  Red Sox  to a 4-3 win
against the Detroit Tigers that moved them within one win of
advancing to Major League Baseball’s  World Series .  The Red Sox have a three-games-to-two advantage in the
best-of-seven American League Championship series, which moves
to Boston tomorrow for Game 6. The St. Louis Cardinals can
secure a spot in the World Series with a victory tonight against
the visiting Los Angeles Dodgers in Game 6 of the National
League Championship series.  Napoli hit a home run off starter Anibal Sanchez in the
second inning and reached home on the pitcher’s wild throw in
the third inning as the Red Sox took a 4-0 lead at Comerica Park
in Detroit.  “Just come in here and try to hit mistakes,” Napoli said
in a televised interview. “We’re in a good position now, but
we’ve still got business to take care of.”  David Ross  hit a run-scoring double and Xander Bogaerts
scored on Jacoby Ellsbury’s single in the second inning for the
Red Sox.  “We had a good plan going in,” Ross said. “Nap putting
us on the board was huge. Lester didn’t have his best stuff
tonight, but he battled.”  Jon Lester  (1-1) allowed two runs on seven hits in 5 1/3
innings. Koji Uehara, the third Boston reliever, struck out two
in 1 2/3 innings for his second save of the series.  “By the time Saturday rolls around and we have the chance
to put tonight behind us, we’ve got two very good pitchers that
are against us,” Red Sox manager John Farrell said. “Once we
get to Saturday, we’ll be focused on the task at hand.”  Scherzer Next  Detroit’s Max Scherzer is scheduled to meet Boston’s  Clay Buchholz  tomorrow, while the Tigers’ Justin Verlander pitches
against  John Lackey  of the Red Sox if Game 7 is necessary.  The Tigers scored on run-scoring singles by  Miguel Cabrera 
in the fifth inning and Brayan Pena in the sixth. Their third
run scored as Cabrera grounded into a double play in the seventh.  “Our guys are well aware of where we are,” Farrell said
of his team being on the brink of reaching the World Series.
“The beauty of us is not to get ahead of ourselves.”  Sanchez (1-1) gave up four runs on nine hits and struck out
five in six innings.  “We’ve got to win one more game and take it from there,”
Tigers manager  Jim Leyland  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Clothier at Comerica Park in Detroit at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net 
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  