-- Romania Seeks $425 Million From Romgaz in Its Biggest IPO
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-10-18T10:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/romania-seeks-425-million-from-romgaz-in-its-biggest-ipo.html
Romania plans to raise at least 1.38
billion lei ($425 million) through the sale of a minority stake
in  Romgaz SA (0882666D) , its largest natural-gas producer, in the country’s
biggest initial public offering.  The government will sell 57.81 million shares, or a 15
percent stake, in Romgaz at a range of 24 lei to 32 lei per
share, Energy Minister Constantin Nita told reporters in
Bucharest today. It will sell shares directly to investors from
Oct. 21 to Oct. 31 on the Bucharest bourse and through global
depositary receipts in  London , Gabriel Dumitrascu, head of the
Energy Department’s asset-sale program, said at the briefing.  “It’s the state’s biggest offering, so I expect investor
interest to be elevated,” Nita said. “I expect the offer to be
oversubscribed.”  The eastern European country must complete the initial
public offering by the end of November to meet a pledge to the
 International Monetary Fund  to overhaul state companies under a
2 billion-euro ($2.7 billion) accord. The nation sold a minority
stake in nuclear power generator Nuclearelectrica SA last month
as part of the deal.  The government plans to sell 85 percent of the Romgaz
shares to institutional investors and the remainder to
individuals, according to Nita. The Romanian stock-market
regulator is expected to approve the sale prospectus today,
Dumitrascu said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Erste Group Bank AG, Banca
Comerciala Romana SA and Raiffeisen Capital & Investment SA are
managing the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  