-- Rosneft Invites CNPC Into East Siberian Oil Production Venture
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-10-18T09:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/rosneft-invites-cnpc-into-east-siberian-oil-production-venture.html
OAO Rosneft plans to sell  China 
National Petroleum Corp. 49 percent in an East Siberian venture,
as the world’s largest producer builds energy ties with  Asia ’s
largest consumer.  The venture will be based on the Taas Yuriakh unit, which
Rosneft gained full ownership of this month, the Moscow-based
company said in an e-mailed statement, after signing a
memorandum of understanding with CNPC. Output at the unit is
forecast to reach 6 million metric tons in 2016, or 120,000
barrels a day, from about 1 million tons this year, according to
a March presentation.  China is set to become Russia’s largest oil export market
after Rosneft and CNPC signed a $270 billion, 25-year supply
deal in the presence of Russian President  Vladimir Putin  in  St.
Petersburg  in June. China agreed to make advance payments,
helping Rosneft repay debt raised in its $55 billion acquisition
of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Russian venture TNK-BP this year.  “The agreements reached prove once again that Rosneft has
a sufficient resource base to meet its strategic goals,”
Rosneft Chief Executive Officer  Igor Sechin  said in the
statement. “The participation of our long-term partner in
exploration and production activities will help speed up the
start of production at Taas and will facilitate the expansion of
cooperation with CNPC in other areas.”  Asia Exports  The Taas Yuriakh unit’s Srednebotuobinsk field will supply
crude to Rosneft’s Komsomolsk refinery and the planned Far
Eastern Petrochemical Company, according to the statement. It
will also provide exports to China and other Asia-Pacific
markets, Rosneft and CNPC said in separate statements.  The East Siberian field also holds 155 billion cubic meters
of natural gas resources, according to the statement. Taas can
produce as much as 5 billion cubic meters of gas a year, the
unit said in December. The deposit neighbors the vast Chayanda
deposit controlled by the state-run gas pipeline and export
monopoly, OAO Gazprom. The government has approved gas shipments
from Taas through the regional network, Rosneft said.  Rosneft announced that it consolidated 100 percent of Tass
Yuriakh for an undisclosed price on Oct. 15. Rosneft initially
acquired a 35 percent share of the unit from Sberbank for $444
million in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  