-- Rothschild Chides Bumi for Ex-Director’s Inter Milan Deal
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-10-18T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/rothschild-chides-bumi-for-ex-director-s-inter-milan-deal.html
Nathaniel Rothschild  said the
investment in soccer club Inter Milan by a former  Bumi Plc (BUMI) 
director who is due to return $173 million to the coal producer
demonstrates the company’s inaction in recovering missing funds.  Bumi said in June it had agreed with Rosan Roeslani, a
former board member and ex-chief executive officer of unit  PT
Berau Coal Energy (BRAU) , on the repayment in return for waiving any
potential claims against him. A group led by three Indonesian
investors including Roeslani this week bought a 70 percent stake
in Italian Serie A team, FC Internazionale Milano SpA.  “Roeslani only has the funds and freedom to do this
because Bumi’s board have failed to take any legal action
whatsoever to date against him,” Rothschild, 42, said in a
phone interview. He owns 21 percent of Bumi voting rights.  Rothschild, scion of a centuries-old British banking
dynasty, quit the Bumi board in October last year amid a dispute
with fellow founders the Bakrie family of  Indonesia . Roeslani
departed in December and stepped down from Berau Coal in
January. Italian newspaper  Corriere Della Sera  reported last
month that an Inter Milan stake sale had been agreed on for
about 300 million euros ($411 million).  It’s “illogical” to make any link between the Inter Milan
investment and the situation at Bumi as they are “completely
different,” Roeslani said in comments e-mailed to Bloomberg
News.  ‘Full Commitment’  “We have an independent investment committee to identify
investment opportunities as well as risks,” Roeslani said.
“The Bumi issue is an old topic that was addressed already and
promptly, with full transparency and of course full
commitment.”  Roeslani agreed in June to return the cash and assets by
Dec. 26, Bumi said yesterday in an e-mailed statement to
 Bloomberg News . “Real value will be recovered for Berau through
the implementation of this agreement, which the company has
therefore been working towards as rapidly as possible.”  Edoardo Caldara, a spokesman for Inter Milan, said the club
wouldn’t be commenting beyond an Oct. 15 statement announcing
the sale to the Indonesian group.  Bumi’s agreement with Roeslani to return the assets states
he has made no admission of wrongdoing or liability, the company
said in June.  In May, an internal review of Berau Coal’s finances found
$201 million of spending with “no clear business purpose.” A
month later Roeslani agreed to transfer $173 million of assets
and cash back to Bumi in a dispute that was also brought to the
attention of the U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office.  Infighting, Probes  Since its inception Bumi has been plagued by board-infighting, hurt by a slump in coal prices and been the subject
of fraud investigations. That’s culminated in the stock falling
more than 80 percent in three years since the initial public
offering of Rothschild’s Vallar Plc, the precursor to Bumi. The
coal producer reported a net loss of $2.3 billion for 2012.  Rothschild said Bumi’s board, led by independent director
Julian Horn-Smith, commented in January that litigation for some
of the missing funds, known as the Chateau investment, would
begin immediately.  “Nothing has happened and more astonishingly another $207
million went missing through the end of 2012 for a total of $282
million,” he said. “I call again on U.K. regulators to act
decisively because the board is unwilling or incapable of doing
so.”  Rothschild has previously criticized Bumi’s board as being
“slow to act” on reclaiming the funds and repeatedly called
for chairman Samin Tan to resign.  Pursue Remedies  Bumi “has continued to pursue legal remedies in relation
to the Chateau investment in accordance with a litigation
strategy approved by its Litigation Committee,” it said
yesterday. “It would be highly inappropriate and potentially
damaging to comment on the details of that strategy at this
stage.”  International Sports Capital, indirectly controlled by
Erick Thohir, Roeslani and Handy Soetedjo, agreed with majority
 Inter Milan  shareholder Massimo Moratti to purchase the stake
through a capital increase reserved for them. The club didn’t
disclose financial details of the deal.  Thohir, who is based in Jakarta, is founder and president
of Mahaka Group, a media and entertainment business, according
to the Inter statement. He is co-owner of U.S. Major League
Soccer team D.C. United.  The Moratti family has long ties to Inter, a team founded
in 1908. Massimo Moratti’s father Angelo presided over the best
period in the club’s history when it won back-to-back European
Cups half a century ago.  Jose Mourinho  The younger Moratti spent millions trying to emulate him.
Inter lost 500 million euros during the three seasons before
eventually winning the European Cup again in 2010 under its
former Portuguese coach  Jose Mourinho .  Since then, the club has fallen down the standings as it
pared back spending. Last season’s 9th-place finish was Inter’s
lowest under Moratti’s ownership and worst since the 1993-94
season, when it ended 13th.  Roeslani is an investor in PT Idea Karya Indonesia. PT Idea
and Bloomberg LP are partners in Bloomberg Television’s
Indonesian-language service.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  