-- Royal Bank Cracks C$100 Billion Market Value
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-10-18T20:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/royal-bank-cracks-c-100-billion-market-value.html
Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s
largest lender and company, climbed to a market value of more
than C$100 billion ($97.1 billion) as its  share price  hit a
record.  Royal Bank advanced 1.2 percent to close at C$69.53 in
Toronto, a record high for the Toronto-based lender, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The gain took its market value to
C$100.1 billion, making it the country’s first bank to break
that mark.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Bank of Nova Scotia  and  National
Bank of Canada  also traded at record highs while  Bank of
Montreal (BMO)  is approaching its April 2007 peak. The eight-company
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Commercial Banks Index is also at a record
high, surging 16 percent since June 20.  Bank stocks, which have been undervalued compared with
other Canadian companies, are getting a lift from good housing
data, according  Peter Routledge , a National Bank Financial
analyst.  “The summer housing market put people’s concerns at ease,
at least for now, and you’ve seen valuations get back to where
they should be given where lifecos and consumer companies are
trading,” Routledge said today in an interview. “It’s a
revaluation trade.”  Canadian home sales rose 0.8 percent in September from
August, with average prices up 1.4 percent during the month, the
 Canadian Real Estate Association  said in an Oct. 15 statement.
Toronto and Vancouver, Canada’s two priciest property markets,
helped lift housing sales to its seventh straight monthly gain.
Housing starts also rose 5.3 percent last month, led by
construction of multiple-unit projects such as condominiums, the
Ottawa-based  Canada  Mortgage & Housing Corp. said Oct. 8.  The surge of bank shares probably won’t continue because of
slowing credit growth in Canada and the U.S., Routledge said.  “This rally, in my opinion, will be short lived,” he
said. “Enjoy it while it lasts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  