-- Russia May Lose 4 Million Tons of Wheat as Rains Hamper Planting
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-10-18T14:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/russia-may-lose-4-million-tons-of-wheat-as-rains-hamper-planting.html
Russia  may lose 4 million metric
tons of wheat from its potential harvest after rains restricted
planting of winter crops, the Institute for Agricultural Market
Studies said.  Winter-crop sowing in the Central Federal District will
fall 25 percent short of the original target, and farmers in the
Volgograd and Rostov regions in the south will also plant less
grain than planned, Dmitry Rylko, director of the Moscow-based
researcher, also known as IKAR, said in a phone interview
yesterday. The area planted with winter crops by Russian farmers
was 20 percent smaller than last year as of yesterday,
Agriculture Ministry data show.  “Plantings in central Russia and along the Volga are
significantly below the target, and there are problems in the
south as well,” Rylko said. “This may mean a potential
shortfall of four million tons of wheat for next year’s crop.”  Rains and cold weather delayed winter-crop planting in both
Russia and neighboring Ukraine. Planting of winter grains in
Russia may fall 4 million hectares (9.9 million acres) below the
target, Hamburg-based researcher Oil World said Oct. 15. Wheat
is heading for a fifth straight weekly gain in  Chicago , the
longest winning streak since July 2012.  Russian farmers planted 12.1 million hectares with grains
and other winter crops as of yesterday, compared with 15.1
million hectares a year earlier, according to the  Agriculture
Ministry . The government set a target of 16.4 million hectares
under all winter crops. The area may drop to 13 million
hectares, Agriculture Minister Nikolai Fedorov said Oct. 7.  Late Planting  Central Russia and Volga are unlikely to add to plantings,
while southern Russia may still sow more, said Alexander Korbut,
vice president of Russia’s Grain Union, a producer and trader
group. The total area under winter crops will come to 14 million
to 14.5 million hectares, he said.  “The problems are obvious: late planting, delayed
vegetation, higher risks on entering dormancy and spring
survival,” Korbut said. “As a result, the winter crop will be
lower, and winter grains define total crop.”  Russia’s Central district accounted for 26 percent of the
country’s grain crop last year, according to the Federal
Statistics Service. Farmers in the central Federal District will
plant 2.8 million hectares with winter crops, compared with 3.74
million hectares planned, Rylko said. Crops in the area may also
be weaker because about 10 percent of the planting was done at a
later than optimal time, Rylko said.  Rostov was the second-biggest grain-growing area last year,
accounting for 8.7 percent of the crop. Farmers in Krasnodar,
the top grain region, and Stavropol, the third-biggest, can
still increase areas under winter wheat compared with last year,
Rylko said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  