-- Russian-Dutch Spat Reignited as Embassy Employee’s Home Burgled
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2013-10-18T16:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/russian-dutch-spat-reignited-as-embassy-employee-s-home-burgled.html
A diplomatic dispute between Russia
and the Netherlands flared up again after a break-in at the home
of a Russian Embassy employee in The Hague.  The Russian Foreign Ministry said today on its  website  that
it expects the Dutch police to find the culprits, while the
police in The Hague said yesterday’s burglary appeared to be one
of a series of similar crimes in the area.  A high-ranking Dutch diplomat in Moscow was assaulted on
Oct. 15 when two assailants entered his home, in what may have
been a reprisal for the arrest of a Russian diplomat in The
Hague 10 days earlier after neighbors complained about a
domestic disturbance.  Russia and the Netherlands have been at loggerheads since
the Dutch government began international legal action to force
the Russian authorities to release a Greenpeace ship and
activists facing prison over an Arctic protest last month. The
dispute has cast a shadow over a planned Dutch royal visit to
 Russia  next month,  “We need to keep our heads cool and resolve the issues
step by step,” Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte told reporters
in The Hague today. “I’m aware that the occurrences raise
questions about the relationship with Russia in a broader
context.”  Two Dutch citizens are among the 28 Greenpeace activists
and two journalists in custody in the port city of Murmansk and
their boat, Arctic Sunrise, is Dutch-registered. The Dutch
authorities said Oct. 4 that they had started arbitration on the
basis of the United Nations Convention on Law of the Sea, a
decision Greenpeace said it “applauds.”  Dutch Apology  Dutch Foreign Minister Frans Timmermans apologized last
week for the Russian diplomat’s arrest, saying the envoy’s
diplomatic immunity had been violated. He refused Russian
requests to punish the police officers involved.  The Dutch diplomat’s beating in Moscow led to the Russian
ambassador in The Hague being summoned. The Russian Foreign
Ministry said it condemned the incident, while reiterating its
demand yesterday for measures against the Dutch police officers.  The assault in Moscow “had something to do with the
Russian government’s frustration at the way its diplomat was
treated in the Netherlands,” Masha Lipman, an analyst at the
Carnegie Moscow Center, said by telephone. “It’s deplorable
that it got to this level of tit-for-tat.”  Timmermans was cited by the Dutch news agency ANP today as
saying he assumes for now that the burglary had nothing to do
with the diplomatic incidents. Even so, the break-in complicates
matters, according to Timmermans, who said he’s doing everything
he can to resolve the impasse.  Diplomat’s Arrest  According to a police report filed after the Russian
diplomat’s arrest that was cited by de Telegraaf newspaper, he
was unable to stand when officers arrived at his front door.  The diplomat’s children appeared to have been completely
neglected and he was arrested on charges of child molestation,
according to the Telegraaf report. The oldest child, age 4, had
been repeatedly hit on the head by his father, according to the
neighbors who called in the police. The father dragged the two
children by their hair into the house, de Telegraaf said.  The Dutch royal couple, King Willem-Alexander and Queen
Maxima, are due to visit Russia Nov. 9 as part of a year of
joint cultural and economic events.  “The cabinet looks at it from a perspective that this
relationship benefits from constructive ties,” Rutte said. “In
that context there is, at present, no reason to adjust the
Netherlands-Russia year, including the royal visit as part of
it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  