-- Samsung, Keurig, KB Home, Orbitz: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-10-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/samsung-keurig-kb-home-orbitz-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s
biggest maker of smartphones, pledged to avoid legal injunctions
in Europe for key phone patents as it sought to end a European
Union antitrust probe triggered by a dispute with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Samsung won’t seek injunctions to block sales of
smartphones and tablets using its standard-essential patents for
five years against companies willing to seek fair licensing
terms, according to proposals outlined by the European
Commission in a statement yesterday.  “Abuses must be prevented so that standard-setting works
properly and consumers do not have to suffer negative
consequences from the so-called patent wars,” EU Competition
Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said in the statement.  The EU is cracking down on patent abuses as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Motorola Mobility unit,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Apple and Samsung trade
victories in divergent court rulings across the world on
intellectual property. Almunia has said he’s targeting “rules
of the game” to prevent companies from unfairly leveraging
their inventions to thwart rivals.  The proposed commitments “will not affect Samsung’s
distribution practices or production capabilities in any way,”
Rhee So-eui, a company spokeswoman in  Seoul , said by e-mail.  Seeking an injunction on a patent used in a standard agreed
by an industry may break EU antitrust rules if the patent-holder
previously promised to license the patents on fair, reasonable
and nondiscriminatory terms and a licensee is willing to pay a
fair fee, the commission said in its statement.  Almunia said forthcoming decisions on other standards cases
will give more guidance, including two involving  Motorola
Mobility (MMI)  Holdings. “There are some other elements that will
come in the next ones,” he told reporters in Brussels
yesterday.  Samsung must negotiate licenses for as long as 12 months
and agree to terms set by a court or an arbitrator if no
agreement can be reached. Samsung and a potential licensee will
have to accept arbitration if they can’t agree on a court or
arbitrator.  Green Mountain’s Keurig Loses Bid to Revive Sturm Patent Suit  Treehouse Foods Inc. (THS) ’s Sturm unit didn’t infringe patents
held by the Keurig unit of  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) ,
a federal appeals court said yesterday, affirming a lower-court
ruling.  The dispute involves patents covering the method of
operating the Keurig single-serve beverage brewer. The devices
use cartridges that are inserted into the machine, and Keurig
claimed that its patents were infringed by anyone who used Sturm
cartridges in the Keurig machine. Keurig sued  Oak Brook ,
Illinois-based Sturm for inducing patent infringement by making
the cartridges.  The appeals court agreed with the lower court that Keurig’s
patent rights were exhausted once it started selling the devices
covered by the patent. The company had no right to determine how
buyers of the machines used them, the court said.  Keurig, based in Waterbury,  Vermont , was “attempting to
impermissibly restrict purchasers of Keurig brewers from using
non-Keurig cartridges by invoking patent law to enforce
restrictions on the post-sale use of its patented product,” the
Washington-based appeals court said.  The lower court case is Keurig Inc., v. Sturm Foods Inc.,
1:10-cv-00841-SLR-MPT, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington). The appeal is Keurig Inc. v. Sturm Foods Inc., 13-1072, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  KB Home Sues Dissatisfied Customers Over Critical Website  KB Home (KBH) , the homebuilder that targets first-time buyers,
sued five Florida homeowners for trademark infringement after
they set up a website critical of the company.  The dispute stems from the customers’ unhappiness with
condominiums built in Florida’s Manatee County. Some of the
units were deemed unsafe by county officials and suffered
problems including sinking floors and water intrusion,  according
to  an August 2012 story in the Bradenton Herald.  The company is paying an independent contractor selected by
the condo association to make “extensive repairs,” according
to a complaint filed by KB Home in federal court in Tampa,
Florida. Los Angeles-based KB Home said it has already paid
“millions of dollars” for the repairs and expects to pay
millions more, according to the complaint.  The builder said the five named defendants have repeatedly
demanded that KB Home buy back their units at the original
purchase price plus damages and costs.  To that end, they have set up  www.theKBHome.com , which
criticizes the quality of KB Home’s construction, attempts to
discourage prospective buyers and tries to drive down the
builder’s share price, the company said in the complaint.  One defendant taught others how to hack into the
independent contractor’s computer system and intercept
confidential e-mail correspondence with KB Home, according to
the complaint.  The website confuses the public, KB Home said. The company
claimed that it’s damaged by the disparagement of its trademarks
and the interception of confidential e-mail. The builder is
seeking control of the website’s domain names, as well as money
damages, litigation costs and attorney fees.  The company also demanded the return of all copies of the
allegedly intercepted e-mails and an order barring the
defendants from attempting to register any Internet domain name
that infringes on its trademarks.  An e-mail sent to www.theKBHome.com seeking comment on the
lawsuit didn’t receive an immediate response.  The case is KB Home v. Smith, 13-cv-02644, U.S. District
Court, Middle District of  Florida  (Tampa).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Isohunt to Pay Film Studios $110 Million in Copyright Settlement  Isohunt Web Technologies Inc. , a BitTorrent file-sharing
system, settled a copyright infringement suit brought by the
major Hollywood movie studios, according to a court filing
yesterday.  Gary Fung, the founder of Isohunt, and his company agreed
to pay the studios damages of $110 million. Isohunt was the one
of the most popular BitTorrent sites, with 44.2 million users,
according to a  statement  from the Motion Picture Association of
America, a film industry trade group.  Studios including  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , Paramount Pictures and
Columbia Pictures Industries Inc. sued for copyright
infringement in federal court in Los Angeles in September 2006,
claiming Isohunt infringed their copyrights and facilitated
infringement by others.  U.S. District Judge Stephen H. Wilson in March 2010 barred
Isohunt and Fung from a wide range of what the judge deemed
infringing conduct. Earlier he found Fung and Isohunt liable for
infringement because they “engaged in purposeful, culpable
expression and conduct aimed at promoting infringing uses” of
their website.  A federal appeals court ruled in March that Fung and his
company induced others to infringe and that they were ineligible
for the Digital Millennium Copyright Act’s “safe harbor”
provisions because they profited from advertising and knew that
the content passing through the website was copyright-protected
and unlicensed.  In addition to paying the $110 million in damages, the
defendants agreed to shut down the Isohunt system. Fung was also
barred permanently from profiting from the infringement of
content owned by the movie studios.  The lower court case is Columbia Pictures Industries Inc.
v. Fung, 06-cv-05578, U.S. District Court, Central District of
 California  (Los Angeles). The appeal is Columbia Pictures
Industries v. Fung, 10-55946, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit, (San Francisco).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Orbitz Can Keep Indiana Hotel Rates Secret, Court Says  Orbitz Worldwide Inc. (OWW) , the online travel service, won the
right to keep its rates for  Indiana  hotels from public
disclosure in a state-court tax dispute.  The company asked the Indiana Tax Court to bar public
access to contracts it had with three hotels in the state,
claiming this information is proprietary.  In an Oct. 16 ruling, the court agreed, despite a general
rule in Indiana that anything submitted to public entities
should be accessible by the public.  The court determined that the rates constituted information
with economic value that’s not generally known by the public and
that Orbitz took “reasonable efforts” to maintain secrecy.  As such, the rates fell within the state’s definition of a
trade secret and deserved a mandatory exception to the public
disclosure policy, the court said.  The case is Orbitz LLC v. Indiana Department of state
Revenue, 49T10-0903-TA-10, Indiana Tax Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  