-- San Francisco Rapid-Transit Strike Resumes as Talks Fail
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-10-18T16:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/san-francisco-rapid-transit-strike-resumes-as-talks-fail.html
San Francisco’s Bay Area Rapid
Transit unions went back on strike today, disrupting travel for
about 400,000 daily riders after contract talks broke down.  The  Metropolitan Transportation Commission , which finances
transit in the region, approved a $21.5 million strike
contingency plan, including limited bus service to deal with the
walkout, said a spokesman, John Goodwin.  The strike against BART, as the system’s known, is a
follow-up to a four-day walkout in July that forced thousands of
riders into cars, jamming freeways, or long lines for too-few
buses and ferries. Others gave up and stayed home. It cost the
Bay Area economy $70 million, San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee said in
August.  At the MacArthur BART station in Oakland this morning,
Vincent Maccioli, 45, and Chris Santeramo, 49, waited for a bus
chartered by their employer, San Francisco-based social-gaming
company  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)   “I have a lot of sympathy for the workers, but I also
think they’re divorced from the private sector,” Maccioli said.  The union walked out even after both sides came to “an
overall understanding on economics,” Roxanne Sanchez, president
of BART’s largest labor group, Service Employees International
Union Local 1021, said yesterday in a statement. The Bay Area
Rapid Transit District, which runs BART,  offered  3 percent
annual raises over four years, according to its website.  Rule Changes  Sanchez said the talks broke down over “changes in
workplace rules that have historically protected workers from
issues like abuse of power, unfair treatment and sexual
harassment,” without providing specifics.  Grace Crunican, the transit system’s general manager, said
the district was seeking “essential work rule efficiencies BART
desperately needs to modernize our operations.”  “We are not going to agree to something we can’t afford,”
Crunican said in a statement.  BART hired 150 buses to take commuters directly to San
Francisco from stations in the East Bay, Goodwin said. The buses
will be able to carry only about 6,000 passengers a day, in each
direction, according to a  statement  on the district’s website.  Ferries will run between Alameda and San Francisco every 45
minutes, according to the commission. Service between San
Francisco and Oakland will run every 45 minutes during peak
travel times.  Brown’s Request  The transit system’s previous labor contract expired June
30. With no agreement on a new accord, workers walked out the
next day. While they returned to work, the unions threatened to
resume striking in August.  That move was blocked when a state judge in San Francisco
approved a 60-day cooling-off period at the request of Governor
Jerry Brown, a 75-year-old Democrat and former Oakland mayor.
The period expired on Oct. 10.  The July walkout was the first since 1997, when workers
struck for six days.  About 3,250 people work for BART, which pays an average of
$79,500 a year to its employees, who also receive $50,800 in
benefits annually, according to the agency’s  website .  BART’s major unions are the SEIU, representing mechanics
and clerical employees, and the Amalgamated Transit Union, which
bargains for train operators and station agents.  At the MacArthur station, Santeramo, the Zynga worker, was
resigned.  “This bus is already 10 minutes late,” he said. “It’s
going to be a long day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  