-- San Miguel Rises Most in 2 Years on Top Frontier Share Dividend
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2013-10-18T09:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/san-miguel-rises-most-in-2-years-on-top-frontier-share-dividend.html
San Miguel  Corp., the largest
company in the  Philippines  by sales, rose the most in more than
two years after saying it will declare 240.2 million shares of
majority owner Top Frontier Investment Holdings Inc. as a
property dividend.  San Miguel climbed 6.5 percent to 85 pesos at the close in
 Manila  trading, the largest advance since Jan. 27, 2011,
trimming this year’s loss to 19 percent. The benchmark
Philippine Stock Exchange Index advanced 0.7 percent to the
highest close since Aug. 14.  Every San Miguel shareholder will receive one share of Top
Frontier for every 10 San Miguel common shares they own. All Top
Frontier shares will then be listed by introduction on the stock
exchange. The fair value of Top Frontier is 178 pesos a share,
San Miguel said in an exchange filing yesterday.  “Not only are investors getting shares of Top Frontier for
free,” said Bernard Avinante, an analyst at Wealth Securities
Inc. The decision also “removes an overhang on the stock, which
is its cross-ownership structure. It will answer the question of
who owns who.”  Listing by introduction allows companies to float their
shares on an exchange without making an initial public offering.  Top Frontier owns 66 percent of San Miguel, which in turn
owns 49 percent of Top Frontier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Directors of Top Frontier include Ramon Ang, Inigo Zobel, former trade minister Roberto Ongpin, Ferdinand Constantino and Eric Recto, who are also either executives or
board members at San Miguel.  San Miguel President Ramon Ang wrote in a mobile-phone
message yesterday that Top Frontier’s listing will allow San
Miguel to raise funds for expansion and address the issue of
cross holdings.  “People are buying San Miguel shares because they are
motivated to own Top Frontier, expecting the latter to get
listed and perform well in the future,”  Jomar Lacson , an
analyst at Campos Lanuza & Co. in Manila, said by phone.
“Investors are speculating a lot and I think they’re wrong.
While Ramon Ang said Top Frontier will list, he didn’t say when.
The only asset of Top Frontier is San Miguel itself, so why buy
a company that owns that same company?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chua Baizhen at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  