-- SAP’s Plattner Calls for Privacy Rules as Big Data Takes Off
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-10-18T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/sap-s-plattner-calls-for-privacy-rules-as-big-data-takes-off.html
SAP AG (SAP)  Chairman  Hasso Plattner  said
governments need to design new rules that balance privacy with
the need to collect and analyze increasing amounts of data in
areas including health care.  “Before there were cars, there weren’t any traffic
rules,” he said yesterday at a press event in Potsdam, Germany.
“Since then people have tried everything to get a grip on
traffic, and now we’ll have to do the same with the
digitalization of data.”  The integrity of consumer records has come under scrutiny
since former U.S. National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden revealed in June that the government secretly collected
telephone records of millions of U.S. customers of  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  under a classified court order. Prism,
another program, collects Internet data from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , and other companies.  SAP’s data-crunching Hana software, developed under
Plattner’s tutelage, rapidly processes gigabytes of data ranging
from business data to genome sequences found in cancer patients’
blood. The vast quantity of information amassed by businesses,
governments and universities that requires powerful computers
for storage and analysis is often referred to as big data.  Billionaire Plattner, 69, said governments shouldn’t
elevate concerns about privacy over the benefit that big-data
technology offers when devising new rules.  Protection Ensured  “Protection of personal data must be ensured, but not at
the cost of keeping us from doing things that we could do and
that make sense,” Plattner said.  In the health-care industry, rules in Germany require that
medical records are anonymous and customers’ specific health
details are kept from insurance companies, he said. Hospitals
have to store patient data on their premises, improving their
protection while at great expense, he said.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Germany’s biggest phone company, is
lobbying the government to enforce tougher privacy protection by
helping to keep German  Internet traffic , including e-mail,
within national borders.  Google,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  shouldn’t be
allowed to publish how much data they turn over to intelligence
agencies as doing so would “cause serious harm to national
security,” the U.S. told a secret national security court,
according to court papers made public this month.  SAP, based in Walldorf, Germany, has said its corporate
customers can decide in which region of the globe their files
are stored and thereby help evade requests to provide data to
governments in other countries.  Plattner declined to say whether U.S. government agencies
are using the Hana software to analyze data. SAP has 2,200 Hana
customers, up from 1,500 in June, plus 1,000 startups developing
applications that run on Hana, Plattner said.  Plattner, who co-founded SAP in 1972, declined to say
whether he plans to remain chairman of the supervisory board
after his current term expires in 2017.  SAP is scheduled to report third-quarter earnings on Oct.
21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  