-- Saudi Arabia Declines Top UN Seat Citing Syrian Failings
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-10-18T15:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/saudi-declines-security-seat-citing-its-failure-in-syria.html
Saudi Arabia  refused to accept the
membership of the  United Nations  Security Council it won
yesterday, citing issues including Syria’s civil war that it
said show the world body is incapable of resolving conflicts.  The council’s “style, working mechanisms and double
standards” prevent it from ending the turmoil in Syria and the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the Saudi Foreign Ministry said in
a statement on the state-run Saudi Press Agency. The body has
also failed to rid the  Middle East  of weapons of mass
destruction and nuclear arms programs, it said.  The world’s biggest oil exporter becomes the first UN
member-state to reject the chance to fill one of 10 non-permanent seats on the 15-nation council. The kingdom’s
unprecedented move comes amid its heightened concerns over signs
of a thaw in relations between the U.S., an ally, and regional
rival  Iran . Saudi Arabia has repeatedly called for international
action against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and opposes
 Iran’s nuclear program .  The Saudi move is a “startling gesture,” said  Richard Gowan , associate director of  New York  University’s Center on
International Cooperation. “If the Saudis joined the council,
they would face huge pressure to support American efforts to
forge a compromise peace deal for Syria,” Gowan said in an e-mail. “They may find it more comfortable to stay outside and
criticize the process.”  Emergency Election  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said he has not received
any official notification from the Saudi government.  Iran and world powers this week held two days of talks on
the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear program, negotiations
described by diplomats present as the most-detailed ever.
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani and this U.S. counterpart
 Barack Obama  spoke by phone last month, the highest level
contact between leaders of the two countries since the 1979
 Islamic Revolution .  The General Assembly, the UN’s main deliberative body
representing 193 countries, votes every year by secret ballot to
fill the seats for non-permanent members. The council’s rotating
members, who sit for two years, don’t have a veto on its
decisions, which is reserved for the five permanent members.  An emergency election would need to take place as soon as
possible for a replacement country to represent the African-Asian regional group, Afaf Konja, spokeswoman for the UN General
Assembly’s president, said by phone. The group will need to
nominate a new candidate and hold elections before Dec. 31 to
ensure that it’s represented, Konja said.  Chemical Inspections  “It is imperative that the election takes place before the
new term begins so that the  Security Council  maintains its
neutrality and represents all regional groups,” she said,
adding that the council will have to operate with an empty seat
if no race is held in time.  Power in the Security Council, whose support is needed for
the strongest UN actions, such as imposing economic sanctions or
mandating armed interventions, rests with the five permanent
members: the U.S.,  France , U.K.,  Russia  and China.  The rotating members can approve or reject other Security
Council decisions, and are often relied on by the P-5 to build
consensus with other states to resolve regional issues.  China and Russia have used their vetoes on the Security
Council to block measures targeting Assad’s government. Even so,
the world body has authorized chemical weapons inspectors to
visit sites in Syria after the Security Council resolved last
month to rid the country of its stockpile on the back of deal
brokered by Russia.  Kerry Meeting  The Saudi kingdom was to replace  Pakistan , whose two-year
term ends on Dec. 31. It would have been its first time serving
on the council since joining the UN in 1945. The Saudi Foreign
Ministry said it wouldn’t consider taking a seat until reforms
were introduced, without providing details.  Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal canceled a
speech to the General Assembly last month. U.S. Secretary of
State  John Kerry  is scheduled to meet al-Faisal during a trip to
Paris next week. The Saudis have signaled concern the U.S. won’t
be tough enough in negotiations aimed at Iran’s nuclear program
that the West says is aimed at producing atomic weapons.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  