-- Schindler Rises as Price Increased to Propel Buyback Plan
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-10-18T10:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/schindler-rises-as-price-increased-to-propel-buyback-plan.html
Schindler Holding AG (SCHP)  rose the most
in more than two years after the Swiss elevator-maker outlined
plans to buy back $1.2 billion of stock at higher than recent
market pricing.  Schindler  jumped  as much as 5 percent, the biggest intraday
increase since late September 2011, and was trading up 4.9
percent at 128.10 Swiss francs as of 12:25 p.m. in Zurich.
Volume exceeded the three-month daily average by 34 percent.  The company will repurchase as much as 5.8 percent of
registered shares at 129 francs apiece and up to 8.9 percent of
participation certificates at 129.80 francs each in the first
two weeks of November, Ebikon-based Schindler said today in a
 statement . Until now, the manufacturer was acquiring shares at
stock-exchange prices under a program that began Jan. 3 and runs
through 2015.  “We have always been told that we should buy back more
actively,” and “this is an opportunity to do so,” Barbara
Zaech, Schindler’s investor relations head, said by phone. The
transaction was triggered by a family shareholder who offered to
sell a block of 2.37 million shares, she said. The Schindler and
Bonnard families and related parties hold 70 percent of the
manufacturer’s voting rights.  “Although it is part of the current buyback program,
Schindler never bought the full amount back,” Andy Schnyder, a
Zurich-based analyst at Bank Vontobel AG, wrote in a note to
investors. “Management, in a very uncommon way, is listening to
its shareholders and this is something that has been not always
the case.”  The gain today narrowed the decline in Schindler’s stock
price this year to 3 percent, valuing the manufacturer at 15
billion francs ($16.6 billion). The slump is counter to a 22
percent gain on the  Swiss Performance Index. (SPI)  Schindler’s price
has fallen in 2013 after two successive quarters of profit-target cuts, including an announcement on Oct. 15 that it won’t
meet this year’s goal because of spending on expansion in growth
markets, delays in reducing business costs and product-pricing
pressure.  “Schindler now wants to do something good for its
shareholders,” Vontobel analyst Schnyder said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  