-- Schlumberger Profit Rises as Customers Boost International Work
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-10-18T10:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/schlumberger-profit-rises-as-customers-boost-international-work.html
Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s
largest oilfield-services provider, said third-quarter profit
rose as higher crude prices led to more drilling worldwide.  Net income climbed to $1.7 billion, or $1.29 a share, from
$1.4 billion, or $1.07, a year earlier, Houston- and Paris-based
Schlumberger said in a statement on  Business Wire  today.
Excluding one-time items, the company exceeded the $1.24 per
share average of 31  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The quarterly average price for Brent oil, an international
benchmark, has remained above $100 a barrel since the start of
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Schlumberger
generates about two-thirds of  sales  outside of  North America ,
the highest ratio among the largest service providers, including
 Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)   “If you look at the entire world today, the weakest part
of the oilfield market is U.S. completions,” James Wicklund, an
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in Dallas, who rates the
shares the equivalent of a hold and owns none, said in a phone
interview before the earnings were announced. “If you have the
least amount of U.S. completions, you do better.”  This is expected to be the fourth consecutive year of
“double-digit” spending increases by customers for exploration
and production work around the world, Chief Executive Officer
Paal Kibsgaard told analysts and investors July 19. The spending
gains will be most marked in the  Middle East  and in Asia, he
said. In Brazil, Schlumberger is starting several projects in
the second half of the year, he said.  Schlumberger’s services include completing wells with
hydraulic fracturing work, which blasts water, sand and
chemicals underground to free trapped hydrocarbons.  The average number of  rigs  active around the world rose 0.9
percent to 3,403 in the quarter from 3,372 a year earlier,
according to Baker Hughes.  The earnings statement was released before the start of
regular trading on U.S. markets. Schlumberger, which has 31 buy,
four hold and one sell recommendation from analysts, fell 0.8
percent to $91.43 yesterday in New York.  (Schlumberger will hold an earnings conference call at 9
a.m.  New York  time, accessible at {EVTS }.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  