-- Scotland’s Grangemouth Refinery Stays Shut as Talks Fail
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-10-18T13:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/scotland-s-grangemouth-refinery-stays-shut-as-talks-fail.html
Grangemouth,  Scotland ’s only
refinery, will probably stay shut this weekend after talks broke
down between its owner Ineos Group Holdings SA and the Unite
union over plans to cut costs and changes to wages and pensions.  Ineos, which operates the 210,000 barrel-a-day facility and
a petrochemical plant, said the union refused to rule out
industrial action during a 60-day consultation on the company’s
cost-cutting plan. Unite, the U.K.’s largest union,  said  it
would only return to talks if the company suspends the proposal.  “For any negotiations to take place they have to drop the
imposition on the workers,” Peter Welsh, a spokesman for Unite,
said by phone today. Employees already offered to hold off on
any industrial action until Dec. 31 in the last round of
mediated talks, which ended without a deal this week, Welsh
said.  Unite called off a 48-hour strike on Oct. 16 which
threatened to cut about 45 percent of the U.K.’s crude
production. The site supplies power and steam to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
neighboring Kinneil processing plant, which handles crude from
the  Forties Pipeline System , gathered from more than 80 offshore
fields.  Workers at Grangemouth, which processes about 80 percent of
Scotland’s fuel, held a two-day strike in 2008 that curbed North
Sea crude output as well as disrupting fuel supplies.  “The union refused to accept Ineos offer to restart the
Grangemouth plant in exchange for a commitment that there will
be no further industrial action this year” after a meeting this
morning, Ineos said in an e-mailed statement today.  Supplying Steam  The facility will continue to supply steam to Kinneil while
the refinery is offline,  Richard Longden , a spokesman for Ineos
said by phone from London yesterday. The Grangemouth oil
refinery is jointly owned by Ineos and  PetroChina Co. (857)  Ltd.,
while Ineos is the sole owner of the petrochemical site, which
has a capacity of 1 million tons a year.  Scotland’s First Minister  Alex Salmond  met with both
parties yesterday, urging Ineos to restore production and
calling on the union to pledge not to strike until the end of
the year, according to a statement from the Scottish government.  Restoring full production after the outage could take
weeks, Ineos said yesterday. During the eight weeks it took to
reach normal refinery operations after the 2008 strike, a
compressor caught fire and crude oil leaked, the company said.  Workers had planned a walkout on Oct. 20 because of a
dispute over union leader Stephen Deans and disagreements over
pay and conditions. The parties failed to reach a deal after two
days of talks this week mediated by the U.K.’s Advisory,
Conciliation and Arbitration Service.  Ineos started direct consultations with employees
yesterday, including a  proposal  to replace a final salary
pension plan, change working terms and close inefficient units,
the company said. The company aims to get a response from
workers by Oct. 22 and will consult its shareholders about
resuming production after that, Longden said.  Unite is looking to take legal action over the plan, which
it  said  introduces “pay freezes and pay cuts,” the union said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  