-- Bond Manager in ‘Big Short’ Misled CDO Investors, SEC Claims
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-10-18T19:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/sec-accuses-wing-chau-of-misleading-cdo-investors-for-magnetar.html
Wing F. Chau, the bond manager who
sued  Michael Lewis  over his depiction in the 2010 book “The Big
Short,” was accused by U.S. regulators of violating his
fiduciary duty by accommodating requests from Magnetar Capital
LLC in managing financial products linked to subprime mortgages.  Chau, 46, and his firm Harding Advisory LLC didn’t disclose
giving Magnetar veto rights over selection and acquisition of
mortgage-backed assets for a 2006 collateralized debt obligation
known as Octans I, the SEC said in an administrative order filed
today. Magnetar bet against the CDO, which cost outside
investors $1.1 billion when it collapsed in April 2008, the SEC
said. Harding got $4.5 million for its role in the transaction.  “A collateral manager’s independent selection of assets is
an important selling point to potential CDO investors,” George Canellos, co-director of the SEC’s enforcement division, said in
a statement. “Investors had a right to know that Harding and
Chau had chosen to accommodate the interests of others and
abandon their own obligations to act in the best interests of
the CDO they advised.”  Managers such as Chau were integral to the proliferation of
mortgage-linked CDOs in 2006 and 2007 as defaults on subprime
loans increased. Collateral managers picked the securities that
went into CDOs and held themselves out as independent agents.  Goldman Sachs  The SEC has focused on those financial products’ role in
helping fuel financial market turmoil in 2008, reaching record
settlements with the banks that underwrote them. In 2010,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. agreed to pay $550 million to resolve
claims it misled investors about a hedge fund’s role in
selecting assets for such an investment.  The SEC last year dropped a lawsuit against former GSC
Capital Corp. executive Edward Steffelin related to his work as
a collateral manager for a CDO involving Magnetar.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  agreed to pay $153.6 million over claims it misled
investors in underwriting the deal.  Chau understood that Magnetar was interested in investing
as an equity buyer in CDO transactions, and that the firm’s
strategy also included hedging that position by betting against
the debt issued by the same instrument, the SEC said. Because
Magnetar stood to profit if the CDO failed to perform, Chau knew
that Magnetar’s interests were not necessarily aligned with
other Octans I investors, whose investments depended solely on
the CDO performing well, according to the order.  Magnetar’s Influence  Magnetar’s influence over the portfolio was omitted from
materials used to solicit investors for the CDO, and Chau and
Harding misrepresented the standard of care that Harding would
use in acquiring the collateral for Octans I, the SEC said.  Evanston, Illinois-based Magnetar has said it offered
limited input on the creation of CDOs and made bets that would
pay off if they soured as part of a market neutral portfolio
designed to profit no matter what happened, according to a 2010
letter to investors. Magnetar was not accused of wrongdoing.  The SEC is seeking proceedings to determine whether
financial penalties are appropriate for Chau and Harding,
according to the order.  Steven Molo, a lawyer for Chau, didn’t immediately return a
phone call seeking comment.  Reuters reported in April that a federal judge in  Manhattan 
rejected Chau’s claim that Lewis had defamed him in a chapter of
his book about the housing bubble that led to the biggest
financial crisis since the Great Depression.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  