-- Serb Central Bank Cuts Rates as CPI Returns to Target Band
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-10-18T16:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/serb-central-bank-cuts-rates-as-inflation-returns-to-target-band.html
Serbia ’s central bank cut borrowing
costs more than most economists forecast after a three-month
pause, citing confidence in the government’s fiscal restraint as
inflation returned to the target band and the dinar firmed.  The Narodna Banka Srbije in Belgrade, Serbia’s capital, cut
the  one-week repurchase rate  by a half point to 10.5 percent,
according to a statement on its website today. Four of 24
economists in a Bloomberg  survey  forecast the move. Eleven saw a
quarter-point cut and nine predicted no change.  With September inflation the slowest in 16 months at 4.9
percent, rate setters are brushing off the advice of the
 International Monetary Fund  to pause easing until fiscal
consolidation takes root. The Washington-based lender
recommended on Oct. 8 that Serbia remain cautious with loosening
policy, which “has been appropriately put on hold.”  The central bank has no excuse to keep the “real  interest
rate  above 6 percent” when the economy is “barely” growing,
Jasna Atanasijevic, chief economist at Hypo Alpe Adria Bank AD
in Belgrade, said by phone. Today’s rate cut probably won’t be
the last in 2013 and there is room to “cut to 10 percent or
even lower than that as long as the dinar is not depreciating
and inflation keeps on falling,” she said.  The dinar strengthened to 113.9245 per euro by 3:44 p.m. in
Belgrade, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield on Serbia’s
10-year Eurobond maturing in 2021 fell 3 basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 6.146 percent.  ‘Implicitly Targeting’  The central bank cut the benchmark rate amid appreciation
pressures on the dinar, having bought 35 million euros between
Oct. 11 and Oct. 17 to weaken the currency.  The euro purchases can be interpreted as a sign that the
bank is “implicitly targeting a nominal  exchange rate  rather
than inflation,’ according to Ljiljana Grubic, an economist at
Raiffeisen Bank AD in Belgrade.  The IMF called for ‘‘steadfast’’ and ‘‘credible’’
implementation of measures announced by Premier Ivica Dacic’s
cabinet to contain public debt. The plan followed Deputy Prime
Minister Aleksandar Vucic’s warning on Oct. 6 that the Balkan
nation is ‘‘on the verge of bankruptcy” and must cut public
wages and state subsidies to fend off looming insolvency.  The plan will rely on tax increases, a higher  retirement
age  for women, crackdown on the shadow economy and lower
subsidies to public companies.  “The executive board had in mind weaker risks related to
fiscal developments,” the central bank said in the statement.
“Weak demand, along with fiscal consolidation measures, will
represent a strong disinflationary factor next year.”  GDP, Inflation  Serbia’s economy will grow no more than 0.5 percent next
year, according to Oct. 14 estimates by Serbia’s Fiscal Council,
a three-member body appointed by parliament to oversee the
government’s fiscal compliance.  Inflation was the slowest in 16 months in September, with
consumer prices rising 4.9 percent from a year earlier after a
7.3 percent increase in August. The central bank is seeking to
keep price growth at 4 percent while tolerating a possible 1.5
percentage point deviation on either side. Inflation was last
within the target band in June 2012.  Policy makers cut the key rate in May and June by a
cumulative 75 basis points to 11 percent. They surprised most
economists by holding borrowing costs in July after the IMF said
relaxing policy would be premature.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  