-- Siauliu Slumps as Asset Writedowns Hurt Profit: Vilnius Mover
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-10-18T14:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/siauliu-slumps-as-asset-writedowns-hurt-profit-vilnius-mover.html
Siauliu Bankas AB, the only publicly
traded bank in the Baltic states, fell the most in eight months
after profit dropped on asset writedowns.  The stock fell as much as 3.9 percent and closed down 2.5
percent at 0.273 euro in Vilnius, valuing the Lithuanian bank at
68 million euros ($93 million). Volume of 285,838 shares was
triple the three-month daily average, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Nine-month net income fell 27 percent to 8 million litai
($3.2 million) on costs of integrating parts of bankrupt lender
Ukio Bankas AB that Siauliu took over in March, it said in a
statement today. The bank also booked 19 million litai of asset
impairments, including 11 million litai in the third quarter.  “Bigger than expected provisions spoiled the bottom
line,” Tadas Povilauskas, an analyst at Finasta investment bank
in Vilnius, said by e-mail. “The bank seems to have used
improved revenue as a chance to reassess its loan book, the
quality of which worsened after assuming Ukio Bankas loans.”  Net interest income jumped 20 percent in the first nine
months of the year to 48 million litai, while added business
from former Ukio clients helped double net commissions income to
12.3 million litai and boosted income from foreign exchange
transactions 43 percent to 5.1 million litai, it said.  “The revenue trends are a reason for optimism about this
bank’s outlook in coming quarters, assuming we won’t see more
provisions like in the third quarter,” Povilauskas said.  Siauliu Bankas said its consolidated net income, including
leasing and other companies, was 14.3 million litai in the first
nine months, up from 11.1 million litai a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  