-- Singapore Exchange Lifts Curbs on LionGold, Blumont, Asiasons
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-10-18T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/singapore-exchange-lifts-curbs-on-liongold-blumont-asiasons.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) ,  Southeast
Asia ’s biggest bourse, will end restrictions imposed on  Blumont
Group Ltd. (BLUM) , Asiasons Capital Ltd. and  LionGold Corp. (LIGO)  after
trading in the stocks stabilized.  The exchange said Oct. 6 that shares of the three companies
had been declared designated securities, prohibiting investors
from selling them unless they hold the same quantity of stock.
Those restrictions will be lifted from 8:30 a.m. Singapore time
on Oct. 21, SGX said in a statement yesterday.  “We’re lifting the designation status as trading has
become more stable,” Kelvin Koh, head of market surveillance at
SGX, said at a media briefing yesterday.  Regulators around the world have stepped up oversight of
 capital markets  after the global financial crisis in 2008 and
evaluated safeguards since the May 2010 plunge known as the
flash crash briefly erased about $862 billion from the value of
U.S. equities. SGX plans to add circuit breakers by early next
year after the fall in shares of the three commodity companies
erased $6.9 billion in market value over three days.  “These three stocks have garnered a lot of attention,”
Kelly Teoh, Singapore-based strategist at IG Asia Pte, said
yesterday. “The stocks, coming from a low base, should rally
after this restriction is lifted.”  Asiasons (ACAP)  tumbled 96 percent over the three trading days
through Oct. 8, while LionGold plunged 87 percent over the
three-day period. Blumont, which invests in minerals and energy,
slumped 94 percent over two trading days on Oct. 4 and Oct. 7.  Blumont’s designated chairman Alexander Molyneux said in an
e-mailed comment yesterday that the company can now focus on
growing its minerals and energy unit with the end of the trading
restrictions.  “The designation of the stocks and its ending are done in
the interest of the investing public and the market,” the
exchange said yesterday. “SGX will continue to monitor closely
the trading activities in the marketplace.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  