-- SMBC Nikko Opens San Francisco Office for Japan Equity
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-10-18T06:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/smbc-nikko-opens-san-francisco-office-for-japan-equity-business.html
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. (8316) , the
brokerage arm of Japan’s second-biggest bank by market value,
said it opened an office in San Francisco this month to tap
overseas investors’ demand for the Asian nation’s equities.  The unit of  Sumitomo Mitsui  Financial Group Inc. will also
double the size of its Hong Kong office by Dec. 31, adding a
second floor in Citibank Tower, Tadataka Ishida, a Tokyo-based
spokesman at SMBC Nikko, said in an interview.  SMBC Nikko Chief Executive Officer Tetsuya Kubo plans to
raise overseas headcount in equity and bond sales, trading and
 investment banking  by 25 percent within three years as Japan’s
stock rally attracts foreign investors and spurs domestic share
sales. The firm’s first  San Francisco  office since 1992 opened
Oct. 1 and will house several sales staff, Ishida said.  The company is competing for equity business with
brokerages including  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  amid a 40 percent
surge in the Nikkei 225 Stock Average that’s made Japan the best
performer among major markets. Stocks have gained since December
when Prime Minister Shinzo Abe took office on pledges of fiscal
spending and monetary easing to revive the economy.  Shares of Tokyo-based Sumitomo Mitsui rose or 0.4 percent,
to 4,895 yen in Tokyo today. The stock has climbed 57 percent
this year.  Trailing Rivals  SMBC Nikko is the fifth-ranked equity underwriter for Japan
stocks in 2013, eclipsed by No. 1 Nomura and second-placed  Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. (8601) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Japanese companies have raised 4.1 trillion yen ($42 billion)
this year, already exceeding 2.1 trillion yen for all of 2012,
the data show.  Expanding overseas will boost SMBC Nikko’s relationships
with foreign investors, helping it win more mandates from
Japanese companies looking to sell shares globally, Ishida said.  SMBC Nikko’s San Francisco office puts it closer to some of
the biggest U.S. institutional investors, including the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the nation’s
largest pension fund with $270 billion of assets, and the
California State Teachers’ Retirement System.  The new branch will be SMBC Nikko’s fifth to sell Japanese
equities outside of the country, joining offices in New York,
London, Singapore and  Hong Kong , Ishida said.  To bolster trading, underwriting and merger advising, SMBC
Nikko plans to add 100 equity and bond sales staff, traders and
bankers overseas to total about 500 by March 2016, Kubo said in
an interview in April. The brokerage increased its headcount
abroad by 30 people to about 450 from April to September, Ishida
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  