-- South African Bond Yields Fall to 4-Month Low on Fed Stimulus
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-10-18T08:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/south-african-bond-yields-fall-to-4-month-low-on-fed-stimulus.html
South African bonds gained for a
third day, driving yields to the lowest in more than four
months, after Federal Reserve officials signaled a delay in
reducing stimulus. The rand fluctuated between gains and losses.  Chicago Fed President Charles Evans said yesterday the
central bank should not begin reducing the pace of its $85
billion of monthly asset purchases as data used to gauge the
economy’s health stopped during the government shutdown.
Narayana Kocherlakota, Minneapolis Fed president, said in a
separate speech policy makers should maintain low interest rates
to reduce unemployment. Foreign investors  bought  a net 1.46
billion rand ($148 million) of South African bonds yesterday,
the most in three weeks, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The mood in global markets remains euphoric,” John Cairns, a currency strategist at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in an e-mail. “The end of the U.S. fiscal
impasse has resulted in foreigners flocking into local bonds.”  Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026
dropped six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 7.73
percent as of 10:07 a.m. in Johannesburg. A close at that level
would be the lowest since June 5. The yields are down 14 basis
points the past five days, a second week of declines. The rand
depreciated 0.3 percent to 9.8510 per dollar, paring a weekly
gain of 0.4 percent, the third in succession. The currency
retreated after gaining as much as 0.1 percent earlier.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index reached an eight-month low
after a deal by Congress extended funding and debt-limit
deadlines into next year and ended a partial government
shutdown, spurring demand for higher-yielding assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  