-- South African Soccer Look for New Income After Puma Snub
-- B y   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f
-- 2013-10-18T12:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/south-african-soccer-look-for-new-income-after-puma-snub.html
The South African Football
Association is finalizing new partnerships after German sporting
goods maker Puma ended its contract with the organization in
January 2013 following match-fixing allegations.  “We are in the middle of finalizing sponsorships that will
come on board,”  SAFA President Danny Jordaan said today in a
phone interview from Johannesburg. While looking for increased
revenue, SAFA is already “comfortable with our sponsorship,”
Jordaan said.  Puma issued a statement yesterday confirming it had
terminated its technical and licensed partnership with the
soccer organization with immediate effect following match-fixing
allegations, even though the partnership actually ended ten
months ago.  “The decision was taken at the time when the allegations
were made,” Tim Stedman, a spokesman for Puma, said in a mobile
phone interview from  Germany  today. “It was in direct response
to those allegations.”  Sponsorship of more than 250 million rand ($26 million)
accounts for 80 percent to 90 percent of SAFA’s revenue, Jordaan
said. The biggest sponsors are brewer  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , broadcaster
SuperSport, which is owned by  Naspers Ltd. (NPN) , and state-owned
South African Broadcasting Corp.  Puma became the official kit supplier to SAFA in 2011, a
year after South Africa hosted the Soccer World Cup. Allegations
about possible match-fixing in warm-up games involving the
national team before the tournament were made in a 2012 report
by FIFA, the sport’s world governing body.  South African President Jacob Zuma is yet to appoint a
commission of inquiry into the allegations after a proposal by
Sports Minister Fikile Mbalula, Zuma’s spokesman Mac Maharaj
said in a phone interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  