-- Structured Notes Tied to Credit Indexes Surge Amid Low Defaults
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-10-18T08:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/structured-notes-tied-to-credit-indexes-surge-amid-low-defaults.html
Structured notes tied to credit-default swap indexes are selling at a record pace as the
corporate failure rate declines in Europe.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , SEB AB and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  led $1.7
billion of issuance this year, a 35 percent increase from all of
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Notes that
speculate on the creditworthiness of the 50 junk-rated companies
in the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index accounted for 60 percent of
the sales, the data show.  “These products now have a recent history of performing
well with very few credit events,” said Peter Frosell, head of
investment products at Nordea in  Stockholm . “They are lower
risk than equities, and while the returns may not be as high as
with stocks, they are more than deposits and are less
volatile.”  Notes tied to default swap indexes allow investors to curb
losses should individual companies fail to pay their debts,
Frosell said. The failure rate among speculative-grade issuers
in  Europe  fell to 3.3 percent in the third quarter from 3.6
percent a year earlier, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Nordea was the biggest seller of notes tied to default
swaps indexes this year, with sales of $821.6 million, Bloomberg
data show. The Stockholm-based lender raised 50 million euros
from five-year securities linked to the latest series of the
Crossover index on Oct. 9 in its largest sale of the securities.  Credit-linked notes can have higher yields and tailored
maturities that may not be available in the  bond market . Buyers
of the securities, which include private banks and wealthy
individuals, typically suffer losses if the issuing bank or the
linked entity defaults.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  