-- Raw Sugar Surges to One-Year High as Fire Hits Brazil Port
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-10-18T22:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/sugar-rallies-as-warehouses-at-brazilian-port-of-santos-on-fire.html
Raw-sugar futures jumped to the
highest in almost a year after a fire left four injured and six
warehouses “totally compromised” at the biggest port in
 Brazil , the world’s largest producer and exporter.  A blaze that is now under control started at the port of
Santos at about 6:10 a.m. local time, affecting the six depots
owned by Copersucar SA and destroying 180,000 tons of raw sugar,
the Sao Paulo-based company said in statements today. Copersucar
didn’t say when it plans to resume sugar loading at the port
terminal, or how long it will take to rebuild the affected
facilities.  “In a preliminary assessment, Codesp informs that all the
affected facilities in the accident are totally compromised,”
Santos-based Codesp, the state-controlled operator of the Port
of Santos, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Copersucar, the world’s largest sugar trader after
Minneapolis-based Cargill Inc., shipped 5.12 million tons of the
sweetener in the crop year 2011-12 that started in April,
according to information on its website.  Copersucar’s sugar cargoes that are on the road heading to
the Port of Santos have been diverted to a neighboring terminal
controlled by a Cosan SA Industria & Comercio unit, Sao Paulo-based Cosan said in a separate statement.  Slower Harvesting  Sugar gained 11 percent in  New York  last month, the most
since July 2011, as rain will mean reduced output in Brazil’s
Center South, the country’s main growing region, according to
Sao Paulo-based industry group Unica. Dry periods will be short
and infrequent over the next 60 to 75 days, slowing harvesting
and exports, Celso Oliveira, a meteorologist with Somar
Meteorologia, said this week.  “One estimate is it could take up to six months to get
operational in some form again so the impact on the delivery and
next year’s harvest will be felt,”   Michael McDougall , head of
Brazil desk at Newedge Group in New York, said by e-mail.  Raw sugar for delivery in March rose 2.6 percent to settle
at 19.5 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York at 2 p.m.
Earlier, prices gained as much as 6.1 percent to 20.16 cents,
the highest for a most active contract since Oct. 22.  Copersucar trades sugar and ethanol from 47 mills,
including Virgolino de Oliveira SA and Aralco SA Acucar &
Alcool. Virgolino’s $300 million of 2018 securities rallied 2.7
cents to 77.4 cents. Aralco’s $250 million of 2020 bonds rallied
0.7 cents to 73.9 cents on the dollar.  Santos Depots  Fire affected depots 20, 21, VI, XI, XVI and XXI, according
to the Codesp statement. The terminal’s facilities have the
capacity to store 300,000 metric tons of sugar, Guilherme Pena,
a spokesman for Copersucar, said in a telephone interview from
 Sao Paulo .  Ten ships were scheduled to load sugar at Copersucar’s
terminal at Santos from yesterday through Nov. 3, Isis
Markarian, a market assistant at Santos-based SA Commodities and
Unimar Agenciamentos Maritimos, said by telephone today. The
ships were scheduled to load 38,000 tons of white sugar and at
least 340,000 tons of raw sweetener, according to Nicolle de
Castro, a business analyst at the company.  “The main issue is how long these warehouses and
surrounding parts of the loading terminals will be out of action
and how it will disrupt port operations,”   Kona Haque , an
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in  London , said by telephone
today.  Copersucar was the seller of 83 percent of raw sugar
delivered on ICE to settle the October futures, two people with
direct knowledge of the transaction said Oct. 1. The ICE
delivery totaled a record 1.49 million tons, and Louis Dreyfus
Commodities took all of the sweetener.  Eleni Androulaki, a spokeswoman for Louis Dreyfus, declined
to comment on how the fire will affect deliveries.  Global Surplus  About 398,659 raw-sugar contracts changed handed on ICE
today. That would be the highest aggregate volume for futures
since January 2008. Trading was more than triple the average in
the past 100 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Through yesterday, prices fell 47 percent since reaching a
30-year high in 2011 as farmers from Brazil to  Australia  boosted
output, resulting in a record global surplus of 10 million tons
last season, according to the  International Sugar Organization 
in London. For the current season, supplies will top demand by 2
million tons, according to London-based Czarnikow Group Ltd.,
which traded 2.4 million tons of raw sweetener last year.  Refined, or white, sugar for delivery in December gained
1.5 percent to $513.80 a ton on NYSE Liffe in London, after
reaching $529.40, the highest since March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in Houston at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  