-- Switzerland Seizes Bogus Pfizer Pills in Zurich Airport
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-10-18T14:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/swiss-authorities-seize-bogus-pfizer-pills-in-zurich-airport.html
Swiss authorities seized more than 1
million fake  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  Xanax anti-anxiety pills at Zurich
airport, part of a wider crackdown on counterfeit medicines
posing a public-health threat.  Four crates weighing more than 400 kilograms (880 pounds)
were intercepted while in transit from China to Egypt and
ordered to be destroyed after tests determined the pills
contained no active ingredients, Bern-based Swissmedic, the
country’s drug regulator, said in a statement today.  Governments are fighting to safeguard the distribution of
legitimate drugs and crack down on counterfeit products.
Systematic checks of medical shipments are carried out every
year, and imports of bogus medicines  have been declining  in
Switzerland, Swissmedic said in June. Counterfeit drugs
generated an estimated $75 billion in revenue in 2010, according
to the  National Association of Boards of Pharmacy .  “I’m angry,”  Erik Gordon , a professor of law and business
at the  University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , wrote in e-mailed
comments. “When criminals counterfeit Hermes scarves, money is
stolen. When they counterfeit pills, they kill people.”  Each year more than 100,000 people around the world may die
from substandard and counterfeit medications, according to an
estimate by Amir Attaran, an associate professor at the
University of Ottawa, and Roger Bate, an economist at the
 American Enterprise Institute .  The fake Xanax couldn’t be recognized as counterfeit at
first glance, said Swissmedic, whose official name is the  Swiss
Agency for Therapeutic Products . The regulator said it informed
authorities abroad of the discovery, in particular in  China  and
Egypt. No patients in Switzerland will be affected, it said.  The Swiss regulator said in June that it had already seized
about 90 shipments this year representing a high-potential
health risk. It also has ordered the shutdown of Internet
websites trading drugs illegally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Geneva at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  