-- U.S. Stocks Rising Most in Two Years Amid Earnings Focus
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   A u b r e y   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-10-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/u-s-stocks-rising-most-in-two-years-as-focus-shifts-to-earnings.html
U.S.  stocks  are rallying at the
fastest pace in almost two years after Congress resolved the
budget standoff and investors shifted their focus to Federal
Reserve stimulus and forecasts for record corporate profits.  While declining revenue dragged down shares of
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. yesterday, investors have reasons to be optimistic heading
into a time of year that has generated twice the return for
stocks than other periods. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  is up
4.7 percent in the past seven days, the most since December
2011, rebounding from losses spurred by concern the U.S. was
approaching a default.  With the debate over the budget and debt ceiling probably
over for this year, investor attention will turn to earnings and
the Fed’s schedule for tapering economic stimulus. Equities
climbed back to all-time highs yesterday and more than 260
companies in the S&P 500 are set to report quarterly results in
the next two weeks, the busiest time of earnings season.  “Everyone’s been paralyzed the past few weeks and today we
finally flipped,” Ken Bollinger, a technology trader for almost
two decades, said in an interview at the Raymond James Financial
Inc. office in New York. “The focus is back to earnings.
Tapering is on the back burner, so there’s still easy money
around. That’s good for stocks.”  Fed Stimulus  BlackRock Inc. and Pacific Investment Management Co. say
the Fed will postpone reducing its bond purchases as a result of
the debt-ceiling debate. Central bankers must assess how the
government shutdown affected the economy, according to Mohamed El-Erian, the chief executive officer at Pimco, which runs the
world’s biggest bond fund in  Newport Beach ,  California .  The S&P 500 rose 0.7 percent to 1,733.15 yesterday,
surpassing the previous record of 1,725.52 from Sept. 18. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange  Volatility Index (VIX) , a measure of
options prices for U.S. stocks, fell 8.4 percent to 13.48 to cap
the biggest two-day decline since January.  Gains in the S&P 500 have averaged 1.1 percent in the first
four weeks of earnings seasons since 2003, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s about twice the usual four-week
gain in the index.  American Express Co. (AXP) , the credit-card lender, had the
biggest rally in almost two years yesterday after reporting
third-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates. McDonald’s
Corp., Halliburton Co. and Texas Instruments Inc. are among  S&P
500  companies scheduled to give results next week, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Finance Hat  “Investors have to get back into a different mindset and
take off their political science-major hat, and put on their
finance-major hat again,” John Buckingham, chief investment
officer at Al Frank Asset Management Inc., said in a phone
interview from  Aliso Viejo , California. His firm oversees $4.5
billion. “I’m optimistic about stocks in general because I
think valuations are reasonable.”  While U.S.  equities  are the most expensive in three years
relative to earnings, Robert J. Shiller, a co-winner of this
year’s  Nobel Prize  in economics, recommended buying shares
instead of other assets. The S&P 500 trades at 16.7 times
reported operating profit, an 18 percent increase from the
beginning of 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The U.S. market is still not that overpriced, not like it
was in 2000,” Shiller, an economics professor at  Yale
University  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , said in a Bloomberg
Television interview with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen on Oct. 15.
“Looking at the alternatives, it should be a part of your
portfolio.”  Earnings Season  While the rate of  profit growth  is slowing in the S&P 500,
companies in the index have reported record annual earnings for
more than two years, holding valuations close to the historical
average even as the gauge’s price reached an all-time high in
March and kept climbing.  Profits for companies in the S&P 500 probably increased 1.4
percent during the third quarter as sales rose 2 percent,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Among
the 87 companies in the index that have  reported  so far, 72
percent exceeded analysts’ estimates, about the same proportion
as the previous quarter.  S&P 500 companies are projected to earn a record $107.90 a
share this year, up from $45.82 a share in 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Among the 20 biggest companies that
released results, the median one-day stock move afterward has
been a gain of 1.2 percent.  Weakening profit growth will limit stock gains, according
to  Donald Selkin , who helps manage about $3 billion as the New
York-based chief market strategist at National Securities Corp.
The shutdown has shaved at least 0.6 percent off of fourth-quarter 2013 gross domestic product growth, taking $24 billion
out of the economy, S&P Ratings Services said this week.  Not Great  “Earnings are not going to be so great,” Selkin said by
phone. “Companies are uncertain about the effect on growth from
the shutdown, they may not have gotten the contracts they
expected and they will generally be thrown off by this political
situation.”  IBM sank 6.4 percent yesterday, the most since April, after
posting its sixth consecutive drop in quarterly sales.  Goldman
Sachs (GS)  dropped 2.4 percent after revenue dropped the most among
the biggest Wall Street banks and fixed-income results were the
worst since the financial crisis.  The S&P 500 climbed 156 percent in the last four and a half
years. The rally has outlasted the average length of bull
markets since World War II, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and Birinyi Associates Inc.  Resilient Market  While  stocks  with the biggest gains may be vulnerable to
declines during the fourth quarter, the overall rally will
continue, said Terry Sandven, the Minneapolis-based chief equity
strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management. This S&P 500 advance
this year is the broadest since at least 1990, with 451 stocks
in the gauge posting year-to-date gains, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  It’s been a comparatively calm October for financial
markets. Daily  swings  in the S&P 500 have averaged 0.8 percent,
down from 0.9 percent for Octobers over the last eight decades
and less than a quarter the moves in 1929, 1987 and 2008, the
data show.  “I’m continually amazed at how resilient our broad equity
market has been,” Sandven said in an Oct. 16 phone interview.
He helps oversee $112 billion. “We’ve gone through the fiscal
cliff, sequestration, preliminary debt ceiling discussions,
tapering and the like, yet we’re still flirting with all-time
highs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Aubrey Pringle in New York at 
 apringle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  