-- UAW Trust Pushing Chrysler IPO Shows $3 Billion Shortfall
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-10-18T18:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/uaw-trust-pushing-chrysler-ipo-shows-3-billion-shortfall.html
The trust responsible for paying the
health-care costs of some union retirees of Chrysler Group LLC
faces $3 billion in unfunded obligations as it works to get the
most for its stake that  Fiat SpA (F)  wants to buy.  The trust’s benefit obligations narrowed by $414.9 million
to $13.4 billion during 2012, according to its amended 2012
financial statement. At the same time, the net value of its
assets rose to $10.3 billion, driven mostly by an increase in
the estimated value of its 41.5 percent stake in  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based Chrysler. Fiat owns the other 58.5 percent.  While the shortfall was reduced from more than $5 billion a
year earlier, the trust needs to maximize the value of its
Chrysler holdings to cover the projected cost of retirees’
health care. Unable to agree on a price with  Sergio Marchionne ,
the chief executive officer of Chrysler and Fiat, the union
trust last month forced him to file for a Chrysler initial
public offering.  Marchionne has been trying to merge the two companies for
four years to help create an automaker with the scale to compete
globally. The process of setting a value in the public offering
may end the stalemate that has kept the two sides from reaching
a deal that combines the two automakers.  Katie Merx, a Chrysler spokeswoman, declined to comment.
Matt Wood, a spokesman for the trust, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment.  Counting on Chrysler  More than a third of the value of the trust’s assets is in
Chrysler stock, according to the filing, which listed $3.6
billion in joint venture interests, up from about $2.7 billion a
year earlier. The trust provided health-care coverage for 61,214
people at the end of 2012, compared with 63,171 a year earlier.  The trust, which is structured as a voluntary employee
beneficiary association, or VEBA, received its Chrysler holding
as part of the automaker’s 2009 government-financed bankruptcy
that gave control of the company to Fiat.  Since then, Chrysler’s success has exceeded analysts’
estimates. The company’s U.S. sales have risen for 42 straight
months, and it’s been profitable for eight consecutive quarters,
while Fiat has struggled through  Europe ’s long economic slump.  Marchionne is seeking greater integration between the two
units, as well as access to Chrysler’s $11.9 billion in cash to
fund an expansion of the Alfa Romeo brand.  Although Fiat has the right to buy the stake for around $6
billion, Marchionne is seeking to pay much less. He said last
month the trust “should buy a ticket for the lottery” if it
wants at least $5 billion for its holding.  Chrysler’s value has climbed to $13.5 billion, UBS
estimates, as industry wide U.S. car sales may rise this year to
a level last seen in 2007. That would mean the 41.5 percent
stake owned by the VEBA is worth $5.6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  