-- Huawei Sees Resolution of U.S. Security Concern Taking a Decade
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-18T02:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/huawei-sees-resolution-of-u-s-security-concern-taking-a-decade.html
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s
largest phone-network equipment maker, said it may take a decade
to resolve the cybersecurity concerns that restrict its access
to the U.S. because the company is held to a “higher bar.”  “America has genuine concerns, and it’s Huawei’s
responsibility to satisfy those genuine concerns,” John Suffolk,
the company’s global cybersecurity officer, said in a phone
interview today. “We will continue to work with our American
colleagues to satisfy their needs and concerns and we believe we
can do that.”  Huawei is fighting to gain access to markets including the
U.S. and  Australia . To address concerns, the company today
released its second white paper detailing its approaches to
cybersecurity and calling for governments and industry to
develop globally consistent standards.  A U.S. congressional committee last year said Huawei and
crosstown competitor  ZTE Corp. (000063)  provide opportunities for Chinese
intelligence services to tamper with telecommunications networks
for spying. Huawei was barred by the U.S. in 2011 from
participating in building a nationwide emergency network.  Australia in March 2012 banned Huawei from bidding on a
national broadband network citing “national interests.”  It’s unacceptable for Huawei to create the backbone of
telecommunications networks as the company is likely to share
with China’s government knowledge of the foreign systems it is
involved with, Michael Hayden, the former director of the U.S.
Central Intelligence Agency, said in July.  Government Cooperation  Huawei denied Hayden’s claims at the time, and again in
today’s cybersecurity paper.  “We have never received any instructions or requests from
any Government or their agencies to change our positions,
policies, procedures, hardware, software or employment practices
or anything else,” Ken Hu, Huawei’s deputy chairman who leads
the company’s Global Cyber Security Committee, said in the
report released today.  “We have never been asked to provide access to our
technology, or provide any data or information on any citizen or
organization to any government.”  To help improve understanding of cyber security
requirements, Huawei said it plans to publish a list of the top
100 issues its customers have raised relating to security.  Suffolk joined Huawei in 2011 after serving as the U.K.
government’s chief information officer for seven years. Huawei
is employee-owned, with about 74,000 of the total 150,000
workers holding shares, according to the report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  