-- Human Rights Watch Says Ethiopia Inmates Tortured for Confession
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2013-10-18T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/human-rights-watch-says-ethiopia-inmates-tortured-for-confession.html
Inmates at  Ethiopia ’s Maekelawi
prison in the capital routinely suffer torture and are denied
legal representation during police interrogations in which they
are coerced to confess, according to Human Rights Watch.  The 70-page report titled ’They Want a Confession: Torture
and Ill-Treatment in Ethiopia’ describes how authorities at the
central police investigation center in Addis Ababa leave inmates
in darkness, handcuff or put them in chains for months and carry
out beatings.  “The coercive methods, exacerbated by the poor detention
conditions, are used by the authorities at Maekelawi to maximize
pressure on detainees to extract statements, confessions, and
other information, whether accurate or not, to implicate them
and others in alleged criminal activity,” it said.  Ethiopia’s Ministry of Federal Affairs, which is
responsible for the prison system, rejected complaints outlined
in the report about conditions at the detention center.  “Such confusing, baseless and unfounded allegations may
come from an ideological stand and attack on Ethiopia rather
than genuine concern to improve the human rights status in our
crime investigation center or elsewhere,” Minister of Federal
Affairs Shiferaw Teklemariam said in a written response to Human
Rights Watch, which is included in the report.  The biggest  human rights issues  in Ethiopia include
restrictions on freedom of expression and the press, and the
“politically motivated” trials and convictions of allies to
opposition parties, activists, the media and bloggers, according
to a report on the U.S. State Department’s website.  Opposition, Journalists  The New York-based group interviewed 35 former Maekelawi
prisoners, which have included opposition supporters and
journalists, as well as their relatives.  Swedish journalist Martin Schibbye, who was held in
Maekelawi, said he witnessed authorities cut contact with
detainees for up to three weeks to try and force an admission of
guilt from them, according to Human Rights Watch. Schibbye and
fellow Swedish reporter Johan Persson were pardoned in Sept.
2012 after being arrested with members of the outlawed Ogaden
National Liberation Front rebel group in July 2011.  “Police say it will be sorted out in court, but nothing
will be sorted out in court,” he said, according to the
statement. “It’s all built around confession.”  Human Rights Watch called on the government to investigate
the allegations of abuse and hold those responsible to account.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  