-- Hungary Bond Yields Fall to Four-Month Low: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-10-18T14:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/hungary-bond-yields-fall-to-four-month-low-budapest-mover.html
Hungary ’s 10-year bond yields fell
to the lowest level in four months on speculation that continued
stimulus from the  Federal Reserve  will allow the country’s
central bank to extend monetary easing this year.  Yields on the forint-denominated notes dropped seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 5.53 percent, the lowest
since June, at 4:53 p.m. in Budapest. The currency strengthened
0.3 percent to 293.59 per euro, for a 0.4 percent gain in five
days, the fifth straight week of advances.  Hungary’s central bank cut its benchmark rate in 14
consecutive steps to a record 3.6 percent by last month. The
“temporary” settlement found in the U.S. debt dispute this
week will probably spur the Fed to delay its “tapering” until
2014, letting Hungary cut rates further, Gergely Tardos and
Levente Papa, Budapest-based analysts at OTP Bank Nyrt., the
country’s largest lender, wrote in an e-mailed report today.  “The supportive global market mood helps forint bond
yields to go to lower levels,” the OTP analysts said.  Fed Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans  said yesterday
the U.S. shouldn’t reduce stimulus after some economic reports
stopped during a 16-day government shutdown.  “The setup is the best possible one for emerging-market
assets,” the OTP analysts said. “The end of talks came,
raising market optimism, but the remaining uncertainty is likely
to make the Fed delay tapering well into 2014.”  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank will cut its main rate by 20 basis
points on Oct. 29, according to eight of the 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. One economist sees a 10 basis-point cut
and another expects a 15 basis-point reduction.  “The central bank may use the positive sentiment for
further easing,” said David Nemeth, an economist at K&H Bank, a
unit of  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , who expects a 20 basis-point cut this
month. “The temporary solution to the U.S. budget and debt
problem significantly changed risk appetite so there is stronger
demand for forint assets,” Nemeth wrote in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  