-- Valeo Stock Rises as Revenue Gain Sustains 2013 Forecast
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-10-18T08:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/valeo-stock-rises-as-revenue-gain-sustains-2013-forecast.html
Valeo SA (FR) ,  France ’s second-biggest
auto-parts maker, rose the most in more than five weeks after
reporting third-quarter sales growth in  China  and North America
and signaling that the European car market is stabilizing.  Valeo  jumped  as much as 3.3 percent, the biggest intraday
increase since Sept. 10, and was trading up 2.6 percent at 69.50
euros at 10:15 a.m. in Paris. Volume was 51 percent of the
three-month daily average after a little more than an hour of
trading. The stock, which has been at the highest price since
January 2000 for the past week, has  gained  85 percent this year,
valuing the manufacturer at 5.53 billion euros ($7.56 billion).  The French manufacturer reiterated a full-year target
yesterday of a “slight increase” in operating profit as a
proportion of revenue, “assuming stabilized market conditions
in  Europe .” Industrywide car sales in the region are set to
shrink for a sixth consecutive year following an 18-month
recession in the euro region that ended in the second quarter.  Third-quarter sales at Paris-based Valeo increased 2.2
percent from a year earlier to 2.91 billion euros, the
manufacturer said yesterday in a  statement . Excluding
acquisitions, disposals and currency effects, sales to carmakers
rose 25 percent in  North America , 13 percent in  Asia  and 10
percent in both Europe and  South America , exceeding competitors’
growth in all markets, Valeo said.  ‘Fastest Growing’  “This leaves Valeo the fastest-growing European auto
supplier and highlights its credentials as an attractive growth
stock,” Philip Watkins, a London-based analyst at Citigroup
Inc., said today in a report to clients.  Valeo, whose products span windshield wipers, headlights
and stop-start ignition systems, is focusing on technology
promoting vehicle safety, comfort and pollution reduction to
increase profitability. Chief Executive Officer Jacques Aschenbroich pledged in March 2011 to boost annual revenue to 14
billion euros by 2015, propelled by sales of fuel-saving
components.  The third-quarter figures “reflect the gradual entry into
production of the high order intake recorded by the group over
the last three years and the strength of Valeo’s growth model,”
with gains in both original-equipment and spare-parts sales
demonstrating “balanced growth,” Aschenbroich said in the
statement yesterday.  Valeo is sticking to predictions that Europe’s car market
will shrink 2 percent to 3 percent this year, with worldwide
auto sales rising 2 percent, Aschenbroich told journalists and
analysts on a conference call yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  