-- Wal-Mart Names Two New China Executives Amid Revamp
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-10-18T20:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/wal-mart-names-two-new-china-executives-amid-revamp.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  today named two
managers to its China team as the retailer steps up efforts to
overhaul its flagging business in the Asian nation.  Adrian Blake will join as senior vice president of business
development for Wal–Mart China, according to an internal memo
obtained by Bloomberg News. Rob Bray, currently senior vice
president of real estate design, construction and store planning
for Wal-Mart U.S., will become senior vice president of real
estate in China, the company said.  The world’s largest retailer announced this week plans to
close more than 20 underperforming stores in China in the next
year -- representing about 2.5 percent of its total sales volume
there -- as part of a restructuring. The stores slated to close
didn’t have ideal locations and layouts, Doug McMillon, Wal-Mart’s international chief executive officer, told analysts Oct.
15.  The retailer continues to add new stores in China even as
it shutters less profitable ones. The retailer has said it plans
to open more than 100 new stores in the next three years in
China. While Wal-Mart China’s net sales excluding an online
grocer business rose 6.3 percent in the second  quarter  from a
year earlier, customer traffic declined 6.8 percent, according
to a transcript of the company’s earnings call in August.  Stiff Competition  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , faces stiff
competition in China from such regional rivals as  Sun Art Retail
Group Ltd. (6808)  and  China Resources Enterprise Ltd. (291) , which have
tailored promotions and shopping experiences to Chinese tastes.
Sun Art is China’s largest hypermarket operator, with a 14
percent share of the industry last year, according to
Euromonitor International. Wal-Mart and China Resources are tied
for second place with an 11 percent share each in 2012.  “These organizational changes support our overall strategy
of active portfolio management and disciplined and strategic
growth for China,” Kevin Gardner, a Wal-Mart spokesman, said
today in an e-mailed statement.  Before joining Wal-Mart, Blake was a consultant
specializing in property and construction, according to the
memo. He and Bray will report to Greg Foran, president and chief
executive officer of Wal-Mart  China .  Filling Bray’s current role will be JP Suarez, who now is
senior vice president of real estate strategy and process
improvement for Wal-Mart U.S., according to the memo.  “Aligning this way allows for additional collaboration as
we continue to transform our processes and align our resources
to build stores with greater speed and efficiency,” Wal-Mart
said in the memo.  Wal-Mart fell 0.1 percent to $75.71 at the close in New
York. The shares have risen 11 percent this year, compared with
a 22 percent advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  