-- Wall Street Dodging Bonds Lifts Risk in Tapering: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-10-18T14:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/wall-street-dodging-bonds-lifts-risk-in-tapering-credit-markets.html
Wall Street’s biggest banks are
demonstrating an unwillingness to wager on corporate debt in
times of stress, raising concern that any losses will be
magnified when the  Federal Reserve  tapers its record stimulus.  As speculation mounted in the two weeks ended Oct. 9 that
the U.S. could default on its debt, the 21 primary dealers that
trade directly with the central bank sold a net $180 million of
investment-grade notes, Fed data show. The flight was bigger
four months ago as the market spiraled into its worst
performance since the financial crisis, with dealers slicing
inventories by a net $4.77 billion.  Banks that traditionally sought to profit from debt-market
dislocations now are shunning risk during periods of
deteriorating sentiment as they eliminate proprietary trading
groups and reduce leverage. Dealer reluctance to use balance
sheets to absorb investment-grade credit amplified the 4.98
percent loss in May and June on the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. Corporate Index as central bankers considered
reducing the monthly bond purchases and Treasury yields soared
toward a two-year high,  New York  Fed researchers wrote in an
Oct. 16 report.  ‘Heightened Sensitivity’  “There is a heightened sensitivity on dealer desks for
risk at any given time,” said Jason Rosiak, the head of
 portfolio management  at  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific
Asset Management, the Pacific Life Insurance Co. affiliate that
oversees about $4.3 billion. “Portfolio managers can no longer
rely on the dealer community as insulation to market movements
and therefore that equates to more volatility.”  Corporate-bond prices are experiencing bigger swings as
policy makers debate slowing the economic stimulus that’s
boosted the Fed’s balance sheet to $3.8 trillion. The central
bank may start reducing bond purchases as soon as December,
according to 59 percent of 41 economists in a Sept. 18-19
Bloomberg survey.  After cutting a broad measure of  corporate and some asset-backed debt  from a peak of $235 billion in October 2007, dealers
pared investment-grade holdings to a net $11.5 billion as of
Oct. 9, Fed data show. That’s down from $13.5 billion at the end
of May, when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said sustainable
labor-market progress could prompt a reduction in the $85
billion of monthly bond purchases through the quantitative
easing program.  Volcker Rule  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Index lost
0.15 percent in the two weeks ended Oct. 9 with a partial
government shutdown shaving at least 0.6 percent from fourth-quarter gross domestic product growth,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  “Most desks take on a lot less risk than they used to,”
said David Tawil, the co-founder of Maglan Capital LP, a New
York-based hedge fund that oversees $60 million. “That’s
especially true when they start to see some turmoil or
volatility coming. ”  Banks are less able to generate debt-trading income using
their own capital because of the Dodd-Frank Act’s so-called
Volcker rule, which aims to prevent such activity. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. reported a 47 percent plunge in bond trading in the
three months ended Sept. 30 and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said debt-trading
revenue slumped 26 percent in the period.  Fixed-income trading revenue at the biggest U.S. firms
probably fell 20 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier in the face of lower volumes, according to Richard Staite, an analyst at Atlantic Equities LLP.  Lehman Failure  Fed data show primary dealers sold a net $5.6 billion of
investment-grade bonds in May and June, with the notes declining
more than at any time since the two months ended Oct. 31, 2008,
when credit markets seized up following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  “Dealers with greater ability to take on risk prior to the
selloff actually sold off more,” analysts including Tobias Adrian and Michael Fleming, vice presidents in the New York
Fed’s research and statistics group, wrote in the report. “This
relationship suggests that dealer behavior during the selloff
appears to have been driven more by differences in risk appetite
than by regulatory constraints.”  Wall Street’s biggest banks are failing to buffer against
price swings on investment-grade debt that are 1.5 times bigger
than last year’s, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.
After rising as high as 113.38 cents on the dollar on May 2,
prices on investment-grade bonds in the U.S. dropped as low as
103.98 cents on Sept. 5, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show. That compares with last year’s high of 114.8 cents
and low of 108.6 cents.  Holdings Cut  The biggest decline in primary dealers’ net fixed-income
holdings this year occurred between May 8 and July 17,
suggesting they reduced market-making activities during the
selloff, according to the New York Fed’s  research .  The only other years in which there were larger changes in
both long and short positions “are limited to a small number of
periods at the height of the financial crisis in 2008, during
the  bond market  selloff of 1994, and around the financial market
turmoil of 1998,” the Fed researchers wrote.  The biggest banks need to reduce risk-weighted assets by
more than 25 percent under new capital rules passed in 2010 and
lower compensation pools for fixed-income, currencies and
commodities employees by more than 20 percent, according to
estimates by Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Fed  data show Wall Street’s biggest banks cut investment-grade holdings by a net $2.77 billion in August as the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. investment-grade index lost 0.7
percent.  ‘Largely Dead’  “Less of the revenue of a bank comes from portfolio
positioning and more comes from lending,” said Zane Brown, a
fixed-income strategist at Lord Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey . “It means Dodd-Frank is working and the profits of
banks will have less to do with trading risks and more to do
with loan risk.”  Average daily  trading  of dollar-denominated investment-grade bonds declined to $9.3 billion that month, 4 percent below
volumes in August 2012, even as the market for the notes grew by
11 percent over the year, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority,
and Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  “As the inventories fell, liquidity dried up in the
corporate-bond markets and trade volume fell,” Brad Hintz, an
analyst at Bernstein, wrote in an e-mail. “Old fashioned ‘flow
trading’ in credit is largely dead.”  Default Swaps  While the dollar-denominated, investment-grade bond market
has increased 71 percent since 2008 to about $4.3 trillion, the
size of each transaction declined to about $565,000 in the three
months ended June 30, compared with about $970,000 in the first
three months of 2007, Trace data show.  “Dealers are not positioned to act as the system shock
absorbers they used to be,” said Jon Duensing, a managing
director at Amundi Smith Breeden, the U.S. subsidiary of the
French asset-manager Amundi that oversees about $1 trillion.
“If we experienced an environment where investors were
attempting to move capital through a narrower pipeline, that
could create some dislocation.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. decreased, with the
Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, declining 0.26 basis point to a mid-price of
71.1 basis points as of 10:43 a.m. in New York, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Verizon Bonds  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  A gauge of the health of U.S. financial conditions rose.
The Bloomberg U.S. Financial Conditions Index, which combines
everything from money-market rates to yields on government and
corporate bonds to volatility in equities, added 0.05 to 1.53.
The gauge, which rises as conditions improve, reached 1.54 on
Oct. 16, the highest in data dating back to January 1994.  Bonds of  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 6.6 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more, Trace data show. The New York-based telephone
carrier raised $49 billion on Sept. 11 in the largest corporate
 bond issue  ever.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  