-- Westports Advances in $644 Million Kuala Lumpur IPO Debut
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-10-18T09:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/westports-advances-in-644-million-ipo-debut-kuala-lumpur-mover.html
Westports Holdings Bhd. (WPRTS) , part-owned
by billionaire  Li Ka-Shing ’s Hutchison Port Holdings, surged on
its Kuala Lumpur debut after completing Malaysia’s second-largest share sale this year.  Shares of the terminal operator gained 6 percent to close
at 2.65 ringgit. The stock was the most active on the Kuala
Lumpur bourse with 202.6 million shares traded. The company
priced its shares for institutions at 2.50 ringgit each, the top
end of its marketed range.  Westports operates facilities at Malaysia’s Port Klang, one
of the main hubs serving container traffic along the Straits of
Malacca, which links Asia with the Middle East and Europe. The
company has a 69 percent market share of container volume at the
port, with six terminals and potential to build another three,
according to its  website .  “This company is like a utility company, where the business
and profit are quite secure,” Choo Swee Kee, who oversees 700
million ringgit as chief investment officer at TA Investment
Management Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur , said by phone today. Choo
didn’t subscribe to Westports shares.  The company’s IPO raised 2.03 billion ringgit ($644
million), making it Malaysia’s second-biggest this year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  UMW Oil & Gas Corp.’s (UMWOG)  share sale
raised 2.36 billion ringgit this month.  Westports, whose biggest shareholder is local billionaire G.
Gnanalingam, has a fair value of 2.90 ringgit, K&N Kenanga
Holdings Bhd. said in an Oct. 16 report, advising investors to
accumulate shares given its projected “decent” dividend yield
of 3.5 percent in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson in  Hong Kong  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  