-- Williams Says Fed Should Shelve QE Tool as Rates Rise From Zero
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-10-18T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/williams-says-fed-should-shelve-qe-tool-as-rates-rise-from-zero.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President  John Williams , who has supported record
stimulus, said the central bank should not rely on bond buying
to buoy the economy once its benchmark interest rate returns to
more normal levels.  “I don’t see LSAPs as being part of the FOMC’s toolkit
once we leave the zero bound behind us,” Williams said in the
text of prepared remarks given in  Boston  today, referring to
large-scale asset  purchases  and the  Federal Open Market
Committee . “We’re still much less certain about their effects
than we are about the effects of changes in the federal funds
rate.”  After driving its benchmark interest rate to near zero in
December 2008, the U.S. central bank has expanded its balance
sheet to a record  $3.81 trillion  and provided more guidance on
the future course of policy to support economic growth. Policy
makers are now debating when to begin dialing back their $85
billion in monthly asset purchases.  The Fed may continue communicating its expectations for
policy even after  interest rates  normalize, although it’s
unlikely officials will tie actions to specific economic
threshold as they are now, Williams said. The Fed last month
repeated its pledge to keep interest rates low as long as
unemployment is above 6.5 percent and inflation is no more than
2.5 percent.  “I see forward guidance typically being of a more
qualitative nature, highlighting the key economic factors that
will affect future policy actions,” he said. “If we again find
ourselves in a situation where conventional policy has reached
its limits, then we will have the ability to return to more
explicit forward policy guidance to provide additional monetary
stimulus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  