-- Won Rises to Nine-Month High After Overseas Investors Buy Stocks
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-10-18T08:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/won-pares-advance-as-authorities-signal-possible-intervention.html
The won rose to a nine-month high as
overseas investors bought more South Korean shares than they
sold for a record 36th day.  Government bonds  climbed.  The currency climbed 0.2 percent to 1,061.65 per dollar as
of 5:02 p.m. in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It touched 1,060.27 earlier, the strongest level since Jan. 21,
and has strengthened 0.9 percent this week and 7.6 percent since
the end of June.  Foreign funds have pumped $11.4 billion into local equities
since the buying streak started on Aug. 23, exchange data show,
helping push the Kospi index to a two-year high today.
Authorities said earlier today that they may intervene to limit
gains that threaten exports, which account for around half of
the country’s gross domestic product.  “The authorities must be on alert as the won is heading
toward the highest level this year,” Jeon Seung Ji, a currency
analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul, wrote in a research
note today. Foreigners buying equities has been a major driver
of the won’s rally, she wrote.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell 14 basis points,
or 0.14 percentage point, today to 6.07 percent.  South  Korea  is monitoring foreign-exchange inflows and
currency movements to see whether there are speculative
activities, Finance Ministry Director Kim Seong Wook said by
telephone today. The  Bank of Korea  will take active steps to
ensure market stability, including injecting liquidity and
changing rules on capital flows, if needed, it said in a report
to parliament today.  “Authorities are giving a strong signal that they may step
in as the won rises to near 1,060 against the dollar,” said
Jude Noh, the chief currency trader at Suhyup Bank in Seoul.  China GDP  The gross domestic product of  China ,  South Korea ’s biggest
export market, expanded 7.8 percent last quarter from a year
earlier, official data showed today, in line with the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Federal
 Reserve Bank  of Chicago President  Charles Evans  said yesterday
the U.S. shouldn’t reduce stimulus after some economic data was
halted during a 16-day government shutdown.  Uncertainty over the value of the dollar after the U.S.
shutdown may impact the foreign-currency market, South Korean
Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok told reporters today in Seoul.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent sovereign bonds due
June 2016 dropped two basis points to a two-week low of 2.83
percent, according to Korea Exchange Inc. prices. The rate fell
three basis points since Oct. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  