-- WTI Crude Trims Second Weekly Decline on Chinese Growth
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-10-18T11:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/wti-crude-fluctuates-near-three-month-low-before-china-data.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
trimmed a second weekly decline after economic growth picked up
for the first time in three quarters in  China , the world’s
second-largest oil user.  Futures advanced as much as 0.9 percent in  New York ,
curbing this week’s loss to 0.5 percent, as China’s gross
domestic product rose  2.2 percent  from the previous quarter,
compared with a projected 2.1 percent, and expanded 7.7 percent
in the first nine months of the year. WTI may drop next week
amid increasing inventories in the U.S., according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  “There were concerns about whether the Chinese recovery is
sustainable, and there are plenty of concerns still, but
nonetheless these numbers are positive and supporting oil prices
today,” said Amrita Sen, chief oil market strategist at Energy
Aspects Ltd., a research company in London.  WTI for November delivery increased as much as 87 cents to
$101.54 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , and traded for $101.52 as of 12:41 p.m.
London time. The contract fell $1.62, or 1.6 percent, to $100.67
yesterday, the lowest close since July 2. The volume of all
futures traded was about 20 percent below the 100-day average.  Goldman Forecast  Brent for December settlement advanced as much as $1.09, or
1 percent, to $110.20 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark crude was at a premium
of $8.37 to WTI for the same month. The spread narrowed for a
second day yesterday to $8.24.  Prices slipped earlier this week on speculation U.S.
lawmakers would fail to reach a debt agreement. After last-minute negotiations, President  Barack Obama  signed a bill
yesterday to reopen the government through Jan. 15 and extend
its borrowing authority to Feb. 7.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. maintained its forecast for the
Brent-WTI spread to shrink to $5 a barrel toward the end of this
year. Oil markets have been “myopic” in reacting to stockpile
changes at Cushing,  Oklahoma ,  Jeffrey Currie , Goldman’s head of
commodities research, said in an e-mailed report today. The
storage hub is the delivery point for WTI futures.  In China, industrial production increased by 10.2 percent
in September from a year earlier, the statistics bureau report
showed, matching the median forecast of 48 economists.  Soft Landing  “Chinese data has been improving for a few months now as a
result of easing actions taken earlier this year, but this is
more about stabilizing the process of their attempts to engineer
a soft landing, not the start of a new boom,” said Guy Wolf,
global head of market analytics at Marex Spectron Group in
London.  China accounts for about 11 percent of global oil demand
this year, compared with 21 percent for the U.S., the largest
consumer, according to the  International Energy Agency .  The industry-funded American Petroleum Industry reported a
surge in U.S. crude inventories on Oct. 16. Twenty-three of 38
analysts and traders, or 61 percent, surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast prices will decrease through Oct. 25. Ten respondents
said there will be little change and five projected a gain.  The U.S. government will release inventory data for the
week ended Oct. 11 on Oct. 21 at 10:30 a.m. Washington time,
according to the Energy Information Administration.  Futures are trading near a technical indicator that
supported prices from late April through June, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. On the weekly chart, WTI is above the
middle Bollinger band at about $100.31 a barrel. Buy orders tend
to be clustered close to chart-support levels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  