-- WTI Crude Rises as Chinese Economic Growth Accelerates
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-10-18T19:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/wti-crude-rises-as-chinese-economic-growth-accelerates.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
advanced after economic growth accelerated in  China , the world’s
largest oil-importing country, and on speculation the U.S. will
maintain economic stimulus.  Futures rose from a three-month low after China’s  gross
domestic product  expanded 7.8 percent in the July-through-September period from a year earlier, halting a two-quarter
slowdown. Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President Charles Evans said yesterday that the U.S. shouldn’t curb stimulus after
a 16-day government shutdown. The U.S. is the second-biggest oil
importer, according to the  Energy Information Administration .  “The market is getting some support from the Chinese
economic data and on expectations that the Fed will delay
reducing its asset purchases after the recent budget
wrangling,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research
at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  WTI crude for November delivery rose 14 cents to settle at
$100.81 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The
contract fell 1.6 percent to $100.67 yesterday, the lowest close
since July 2. Prices slipped 1.2 percent this week. The volume
of all futures traded was 16 percent below the 100-day average
at 3:51 p.m.  Brent for December settlement advanced 83 cents, or 0.8
percent, to end the session at $109.94 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Volume was 26 percent lower
than the 100-day average. The European benchmark crude traded at
an $8.83 premium to WTI for the same month.  Debt Agreement  Prices slipped earlier this week on speculation that U.S.
lawmakers would fail to reach a debt agreement. After last-minute negotiations, President  Barack Obama  signed a bill
yesterday to reopen the government through Jan. 15 and extend
its borrowing authority to Feb. 7.  “There’s nothing to be too excited about,” said  Chip Hodge , who oversees a $9 billion natural-resource bond portfolio
as senior managing director at Manulife Asset Management in
 Boston . “The can’s been kicked down the road for a few months
and we will have to deal with the same issues early next year.”  In China, industrial production increased by 10.2 percent
in September from a year earlier, the statistics bureau report
showed, matching the median forecast of 48 economists. The Asian
nation accounts for about 11 percent of global oil demand this
year, compared with 21 percent for the U.S., the largest
consumer, according to the International Energy Agency.  Sustainable Recovery  “There were concerns about whether the Chinese recovery is
sustainable, and there are plenty of concerns still, but
nonetheless these numbers are positive and supporting oil prices
today,” said Amrita Sen, chief oil market strategist at Energy
Aspects Ltd., a research company in  London .  The industry-funded American Petroleum Industry reported
Oct. 16 that U.S. crude inventories gained 5.94 million barrels
last week. The U.S. government will release inventory data for
the week ended Oct. 11 on at 10:30 a.m. Washington time on Oct.
21, according to the EIA. The figures are delayed because of the
government shutdown.  The EIA report will probably show that crude inventories
rose by 2.75 million barrels to 373.3 million in the week ended
Oct. 11, based on the median of eight analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. That would leave supplies at the highest level
since July 5.  Refinery Operations  Refineries may have reduced their  utilization  rate to 85.5
percent last week, the lowest level since April, the survey
showed. Units were idled for maintenance after the peak summer
gasoline-demand season, which ended with the Labor Day holiday
on Sept. 2.  “We have plenty of oil,” Hodge said. “There shouldn’t be
much of a run-up in prices unless there are additional sparks in
some of the world’s political hotspots.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  maintained its forecast for the
Brent-WTI spread to shrink to $5 a barrel toward the end of this
year. Oil markets have been “myopic” in reacting to stockpile
changes at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for the U.S.
benchmark grade,  Jeffrey Currie , Goldman’s head of commodities
research, said in an e-mailed report today. The storage hub is
the delivery point for WTI futures.  Futures are trading near a technical indicator that
supported prices from late April through June, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. On the weekly chart, WTI is above the
middle Bollinger band at about $100.31 a barrel. Buy orders tend
to be clustered close to chart-support levels.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
December was 18.7 percent, down from 19.7 percent from
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 468,794
contracts as of 3:52 p.m. It totaled 873,513 contracts
yesterday, the highest level since July 11 and 49 percent more
than the three-month average. Open interest was 1.81 million
contracts, the least since Aug. July 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  