-- Zuma Condemns Western Nations’ Intervention in Africa
-- B y   A m o g e l a n g   M b a t h a
-- 2013-10-18T15:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-18/zuma-condemns-western-nations-intervention-in-africa.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
criticized interventions by the U.S. and other Western nations
in African conflicts that he says have left countries such as
Libya worse off.  In an interview with Paris-based  France 24  today, Zuma
raised concerns about the U.S. raid on a Somali town earlier
this month to capture a leader of the Islamist group al-Shabaab.  “It does bother us, because we are here on the
continent,” Zuma said. “We need to be dealing with the
continent. People who feel they need to make a contribution or
assist should be assisting the Africans rather than to boldly
say we are coming into your continent and do what we want.”  At the same time as the Somali raid, U.S. special forces
captured an al-Qaeda leader, known as Abu Anas al-Libi, off the
streets of Libya, prompting criticism from the North African
government that the U.S. didn’t inform them of the operation in
advance. The U.S. and its allies in the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization used military force to help the opposition to
overthrow Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  in 2011, action that was
opposed by Zuma.  “As African countries we had a road map on how to deal
with the Libyan issue,” Zuma said. “Then the big countries
bombed it and killed Qaddafi and left a worser security
situation in the north of  Africa .”  Since Libya’s first free election in more than 50 years in
2012, militias who led the fighting against Qaddafi, including
some Islamists, have been using force to exact concessions and
expand their power.  Mali Intervention  Zuma defended his support of the French government’s
intervention in Mali in January to prevent Islamist rebels
allied to al-Qaeda from taking control of the north of the
country.  “Rebels were attacking  Mali , they were about to take over
Mali,” he said. “The French talked to us. They did not just
come in and bomb.”  Zuma also welcomed help from  France  in  Central African
Republic , which is struggling to restore order after Seleka
rebels ousted President Francois Bozize in a coup in March,
prompting international condemnation and the country’s
suspension from the  African Union .  “I think we have passed that stage when colonial countries
would come and do whatever by force because they had colonized
us,” said Zuma. “We are countries that are trying to look
after the security of the continent. There should be working
together to deal with terrorists all over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amogelang Mbatha in Johannesburg at 
 ambatha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Gordon Bell  at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net  