-- M&T Reaches Fed Money-Laundering Deal; Hudson City Jumps
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-06-18T20:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/m-t-reaches-fed-deal-on-money-laundering-hudson-city-jumps-1-.html
M&T Bank Corp. (MTB) , the lender that
postponed its purchase of Hudson City Bancorp amid a Federal
Reserve probe into money laundering, reached a deal with the
regulator to improve compliance.  Hudson City advanced 2.4 percent to $8.57 at 4:30 p.m. in
 New York , the biggest jump since January. M&T’s agreement with
the Fed added to investor confidence about the eventual
completion of the deal, said  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets .  “It’s definitive now,” he said. “Everyone knows what
they have to do, when they have to do it by.” Buffalo, New
York-based M&T climbed 1.1 percent.  M&T announced an agreement in August, valued at $3.7
billion at the time, to buy Hudson City as part of an effort to
expand in  New Jersey . The buyer said in April that the
regulatory review delayed the completion of the deal for Hudson
City, whose chief executive officer, Ron Hermance, 65, returned
to the bank in August after taking medical leave to receive a
bone-marrow transplant.  “Hudson City is a company that needs to find a buyer and
needs to sell itself,” said Bob Ramsey, an analyst at FBR
Capital Markets. “M&T is the best option that they have.”  M&T agreed to hire an independent consultant to review
transactions that involved “high-risk customer accounts” in
the second half of last year. The lender also will submit to the
Fed a revised anti- money-laundering  compliance program that
describes actions that will be taken, including timelines for
completion, within 60 days of the agreement, according to a
document released today by the regulator.  ‘Next Step’  “This is the next step in the process we started talking
about in April, and we need to complete this process before we
can move on to the Hudson City deal again,” said Michael Zabel,
a spokesman for M&T.  Cassidy said the delay may discourage other banks from
pursuing acquisitions.  “The message coming from the regulatory community, as
evidenced by this transaction, is that you need to have all your
ducks lined up to do a deal,” Cassidy said. “And even when you
think you have them lined up, you still may go through extra
regulatory scrutiny to get a deal done.”  Led by CEO Robert Wilmers, M&T counts  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  among the bank’s largest shareholders.
Wilmers, 79, added about $40 billion to both its loan and
deposit books since 2008 through at least four acquisitions,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan, Evercore  The bank dropped 4.5 percent on April 12 after announcing
the review. Paramus, New Jersey-based Hudson City declined 5.5
percent that day.  FBR’s Ramsey said the written agreement, which doesn’t call
for a fine, shows “the problems are going to be a little bit
more difficult to resolve than we previously would’ve thought.”
Still, the agreement doesn’t change his expectation that the
deal will be completed, he said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is Hudson City’s banker on the deal,
while Sullivan & Cromwell LLP provided legal advice. M&T is
using  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 Lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  