-- ABN Amro Trims Stock Holdings as VIX Rises on Fed Bets
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-06-18T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/abn-amro-trims-stock-holdings-as-vix-rises-on-fed-bets.html
ABN Amro  Private Banking trimmed its
global equity allocation for the first time in a year as
investor speculation that the  Federal Reserve  may reduce the
pace of its asset purchases sent a measure of volatility to a
15-week high this month.  ABN Amro’s wealth-management unit cut its equity holding to
40 percent in June from 44 percent in March after increasing it
for three consecutive quarters. It raised its cash investment to
13 percent from zero, the highest in a year. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX, a gauge of options
used to protect against losses in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, rose to 18.59 on June 12, the highest since Feb. 25.  “We’re seeing higher volatility across almost all asset
classes,” Didier Duret, chief investment officer for the
private bank, which manages 165 billion euros ($220 billion),
said in an interview from Amsterdam yesterday. “We want to
observe the volatility in the equity and currency markets, and
manage risk. Seeing volatility come down would be an opportunity
for us to go back into equities, which are the next target.”  The  S&P 500  has lost 1.8 percent from a record on May 21,
the day before Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central
bank could pare stimulus if the U.S. economy improves
sustainably. The Fed will hold its two-day policy meeting
beginning today, with Bernanke scheduled to speak after the
central bank’s decision tomorrow.  Economic Data  Investors have been watching economic data to determine
whether growth is strong enough to prompt the bank to scale back
stimulus measures. Bernanke may provide some visibility on when
the Fed plans to begin reducing its $85 billion in monthly asset
purchases, which will give investors more certainty and may
bring down volatility, according to ABN Amro’s Duret.  “It’s been a live experiment for the Fed to just observe
what could happen when they really do scale down asset
purchases,” he said by phone. “The Fed has done well to manage
what was an expectation of infinite Fed liquidity in the
system.”  ABN Amro Private Banking still maintained its overweight
position in equities for a fourth quarter, meaning it holds more
of the assets than represented in benchmark portfolios, as
recent drops provide opportunities to buy into an improving  U.S.
economy . Stocks with above-average earnings growth, like
information technology companies, will gain the most, Duret
said.  Not Worried  “We are not worried,” he said. “On the contrary, it’s
allocating from what has been dependent on central bank
liquidity to fundamentally grounded equities which have earnings
growth behind them. The strategy is really rotating into  growth
stocks .”  The VStoxx Index, a measure of volatility in the Euro Stoxx
50 Index, rose to 22.27 on June 5, its highest since April 17.  ABN Amro Private Banking started selling European equities
and reduced its position to underweight as the Euro Stoxx 50,
which tracks the largest companies in the euro-area, last month
reached its highest level since July 2011. ABN diversified its
stock holdings in the region after the rally made northern
European markets expensive, Duret said.  “What’s new is we’re not focusing only on northern
countries, but we also want to broaden our exposure in  Europe .
It’s more investing into the Stoxx 600 than the  Euro Stoxx 50 (SX5E) 
now, so now we have a broader exposure that also includes
peripheral markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  