-- Accused Sept. 11 Plotters Clash With Red Cross Over Files
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2013-06-18T18:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/accused-sept-11-plotters-clash-with-red-cross-over-files.html
The International Committee of the
 Red Cross  said its mission would be undermined if the U.S.
surrenders the group’s reports on prison conditions at a
military base in Cuba where five men accused in the Sept. 11,
2001 terror attacks are being held.  Lawyers for accused mastermind Khalid Sheik Mohammed and
four others asked a military judge to compel the government to 
turn over the reports received from the ICRC. The Geneva-based 
group, which visits prisoners worldwide to ensure they’re 
treated humanely, wants the judge to deny the request.  Matthew MacLean, a lawyer for the Red Cross, today said
that disclosure of the reports in this case would compromise
ICRC efforts to gain access to prisoners elsewhere. Governments
grant ICRC access to prisons because its reports aren’t made
public, he said.  “We go places that no one else goes to,” MacLean told the
judge, U.S. Army Colonel James Pohl, at a hearing at the U.S.
military base in Guantanamo Bay. The ICRC can do so because it
maintains “strictly confidential dialogues,” he said.  The request came on the second day of pre-trial hearings
this week. The five defendants are accused of organizing the
2001 hijacking of passenger airplanes that killed almost 3,000
people when they were crashed into the World Trade Center in
 Manhattan , the Pentagon in  Virginia , and in  Pennsylvania .  The five, who have been held by the U.S. for about a
decade, may face the death penalty if convicted. They are
charged with conspiring to finance, train and direct the 19
hijackers who seized the four planes, as well as terrorism,
hijacking aircraft, conspiracy, murder in violation of the laws
of war and attacking civilians. A trial is at least a year away.  Geneva Conventions  None of the defendants appeared in court today. Proceedings
began this morning with a military officer testifying that each
of the men waived his right to appear in court.  The Geneva Conventions, the international treaties that
govern how captives will be treated, permits the Red Cross to
visit prisoners seized during armed conflicts.  The ICRC shares its reports with only the “detaining
power” -- in this case, the U.S. -- to remedy violations of
international law, MacLean said. No other court in the world has
ordered a government to surrender ICRC reports, he said.  “We are above all else neutral, impartial and
independent,” MacLean said.  Prisoners’ Treatment  Lawyers for the detainees argued they need the ICRC reports
about the prisoners’ treatment to prepare their defense and to
seek evidence that they may eventually use to argue against
execution, should their clients be convicted.  “I don’t know of any other way to obtain the
information,” said Walter Ruiz, who represents Mustafa al
Hawsawi, a Saudi who allegedly helped finance the hijackers.  Mohammed’s attorney, David Nevin, said the U.S.
Constitution requires the government to provide defendants with
documents in its possession so that defense lawyers can argue
for their clients to “live, and not die.”  The prosecutor, Army Brigadier General Mark Martins,
opposed the defense request for what he termed “sensitive”
documents. He asked the judge to wait for four weeks before
ruling so that the prosecution and the ICRC may decide whether
some documents may be disclosed.  MacDonald Testifies  Pohl, who didn’t rule on the defense bid, was skeptical of
the ICRC’s claim that its reports are protected by a privilege
that only it can waive, even after the group provided the
reports to a government.  Separately, Cheryl Bormann, a lawyer for Walid bin Attash,
a Yemeni defendant charged with helping to train the Sept. 11
hijackers, continued questioning retired Vice Admiral Bruce
MacDonald, the former civilian head of the military tribunal.
MacDonald testified yesterday as well.  As Convening Authority, MacDonald last year designated the
charges on which the five men will be tried. Borman suggested in
her questions that MacDonald had insufficient experience in
criminal law to make a fair determination.  A broadcast of the testimony was viewed by reporters at
Fort Meade,  Maryland , near  Washington .  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commissions Trial
(Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in Fort Meade, Maryland,
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  