-- Adidas Sees World Cup Boosting Soccer Sales to $2.7 Billion
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-06-18T14:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/adidas-says-world-cup-will-boost-soccer-sales-to-2-7-billion.html
Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-largest sporting-goods maker, said soccer sales will rise to a
record 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) next year, boosted by the
 World Cup  in Brazil.  “We will once again underline our leading position,”
Chief Executive Officer  Herbert Hainer  said today at a press
conference about the event in Herzogenaurach, Germany.  Adidas, the global leader in soccer, said today it will
start introducing new products for the World Cup in the second
half of this year. The company is one of six global marketing
partners for the tournament, which kicks off in Sao Paolo on
June 12, 2014. Others include Coca-Cola Co. and Sony Corp.  Adidas had soccer sales of more than 1.7 billion euros last
year, helped by interest surrounding the European championships
held in Ukraine and Poland. Revenue from the category this year
will reach last year’s level, Markus Baumann, senior vice
president Adidas Football said today. The company has been
pushing product categories including running and fitness this
year because of the lack of a major soccer event.  Adidas faces competition from Beaverton, Oregon-based  Nike
Inc. (NKE) , whose soccer sales rose to $2 billion in 2012 from $1.8
billion in 2011. Nike sponsors the national team of Brazil,
where Adidas would like to become leader “sooner rather than
later,” Hainer told journalists today.  Cup Final  Adidas “is closing the gap” with competitors in the
country and the World Cup will help “reduce the gap further,”
the CEO said. The company will continue to have double-digit
growth in  Latin America , he said.  Brazil is hosting the World Cup for the second time since
the tournament was established in 1930. The country last
welcomed the global soccer event in 1950. The final will be
played on July 13 at the Maracana stadium in  Rio de Janeiro .  Adidas has supplied the official match ball to all World
Cup matches since 1970. It sold 13 million official match balls
at the last World Cup in  South Africa  in 2010 and expects to
beat that number next year, Baumann said today.  Adidas, the sponsor of teams including Germany, Spain and
Argentina, estimates it owns 37 percent of the global soccer
market, whose wholesale value is worth 5.4 billion euros.  The World Cup in Brazil will be “the biggest ever seen,”
Hainer said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net  