-- Adobe Profit Tops Estimates on Cloud Subscriber Growth
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-06-19T13:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/adobe-profit-tops-estimates-on-cloud-subscriber-growth.html
Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , the largest
maker of graphic-design software, reported fiscal second-quarter
profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates as subscribers signed
up for cloud-computing services at a faster clip.  Profit excluding some items for the period through May was
36 cents a share,  San Jose , California-based Adobe said in a
statement yesterday. That beat the average estimate for 34
cents, according to analysts’  projections  compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales were $1.01 billion, matching the average estimate.  Chief Executive Officer Shantanu Narayen is in the middle
of a drive to sell more of Adobe’s design tools as a
subscription service via the Web, reducing the company’s
reliance on programs for the declining personal-computer market.
The 700,000 users of Adobe’s Creative Cloud software -- which
includes online versions of its popular Photoshop, Illustrator
and Dreamweaver tools -- is better than a prediction by Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities LLC in
 Portland ,  Oregon .  “That’s the best indicator of what the future revenue
model’s going to look like and how far we are along in the
transition,” said Barnicle, who has a sector perform rating on
Adobe.  Amassing more than his estimate of 600,000 Creative Cloud
subscribers a year after the product’s debut is “pretty
encouraging” and puts the Adobe well on its way to reaching its
goal of 1.25 million subscribers by the end of its fiscal year
in November, Barnicle said.  Recurring Revenue  For the current fiscal third quarter, Adobe is  forecasting 
sales of $975 million to $1.03 billion and earnings of 29 cents
to 35 cents a share. Analysts on average are  projecting  profit
of 35 cents on $1.01 billion in revenue.  Shares of Adobe rose 6 percent to $45.97 at 9:36 a.m. in
 New York . They had advanced 15 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 16 percent gain for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  “The benefits of going to a recurring revenue model are
priced in right now,” said  Josh Olson , an analyst at Edward
Jones & Co. in  Des Peres ,  Missouri . “The market’s given them a
lot of credit for this transition,” said Olson, who has a hold
rating on the stock.  Adobe is throwing its weight behind Creative Cloud, which
is aimed at professional print, Web and video designers. Adobe
added 221,000 net new subscribers during the quarter, exceeding
Olson’s estimate of a 185,000 gain. Adobe is also promoting
digital-marketing tools for advertisers, which accounts for
about a quarter of sales.  Cloud Transition  Adobe said in May it would focus on developing and selling
the  Creative Cloud  and won’t release new editions of its desktop
Creative Suite beyond the current version 6 of the application.
That’s sparked an  online debate  among users who say the online
subscriptions are too pricey.  Narayen addressed the dissent on a conference call with
analysts yesterday, saying the decision to stop making desktop
versions of Creative Suite “has caused concern among some
customers.” Adobe will look at “additional options that will
help them with the transition,” he said.  Adobe is seeing an average sale price of $37 a month from
Creative Cloud users -- the list price for the full suite of
products is $50 a month -- and will continue promotions to
convert existing users to online products, Chief Financial
Officer Mark Garrett said in an interview. The company is also
looking into letting users access files even if they aren’t
paying subscribers, he said.  “It’s fair and we’re listening,” said Garrett. “You’ll
always have people who are upset about change.”  Creative Software  The transition to delivering software and tools over the
Internet is aimed at smoothing out sales growth by relying less
on product releases every two years. That’s sapping revenue as
customers sign up for subscriptions instead of paying for
packaged applications that can cost hundreds or thousands of
dollars upfront.  Second-quarter sales declined 10 percent, and  net income 
declined 66 percent to $76.5 million, Adobe said.  The company has said that  12.8 million  people are using its
desktop creative products -- 8.4 million of them on suites that
bundle multiple programs and 4.4 million using individual tools.
While Adobe has said it expects 4 million subscribers for the
cloud service by the end of 2015, there’s a potential market for
8 million creative professionals, according to the company.  Sales of Adobe’s online marketing software increased 11
percent to $285.4 million. Adobe, which has been making
acquisitions the past four years to expand in products for
creating and measuring online advertising campaigns, is
competing with  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  and others in
that market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  