-- African Minerals CEO Studies Copper, Steel Raw-Materials M&A
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-06-18T16:38:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/african-minerals-ceo-studies-copper-steel-raw-materials-m-a.html
African Minerals Ltd. (AMI) , studying a $2
billion iron-ore mine expansion in Sierra Leone, is considering
acquisitions in commodities such as copper and steelmaking raw
materials.  “There are significant opportunities in West Africa,
across commodities and across countries, that we will be
extremely well-positioned to take advantage of,” Chief
Executive Officer Keith Calder said in a phone interview from
London today, adding that his primary focus is the existing
Tonkolili mine and Pepel expansion project.  African Minerals, which has a market value of $1.2 billion,
began iron-ore shipments from Tonkolili in November 2011, making
it Sierra Leone’s largest producer. The price of the steelmaking
raw material, the most-shipped commodity after oil, more than
tripled in the past decade, encouraging mining companies to
expand in new regions and away from more traditional hubs such
as Brazil and  Australia .  “We are looking at anything that’s related to steelmaking,
anything that’s related to infrastructure like copper,” Calder
said. “The infrastructural-based commodities that are driving
the Chinese, the Indian, the South American economic growth, I
think those are very attractive.  ‘‘I don’t think we are targeting a specific size of
investment,’’ he said. ‘‘I think we will just be looking around
to find what makes sense and what’s available.’’  African Minerals said today it’s exporting at a rate of 20
million metric tons annually, meeting its second-quarter target.
The stock  jumped  the most in more than two months in London
trading, rising 8 percent to close at 235 pence after earlier
rising as much as 15 percent.  April Forecast  The company expects to meet an April forecast of 13 million
tons to 15 million tons of exports for the year ending June 30
after reaching its export capacity this quarter, it said in a
statement today. Ten shipments left its port over 30 days from
May 18 to June 16, it said.  ‘‘This is a crucial step for the company in remaining
relevant to the wider investor base and shows the group is
beginning to deliver under new CEO Keith Calder,’’ Citigroup
Inc. analyst Michael Flitton wrote in a report today.  Credit Suisse Group AG estimates earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization of $320 million in the 2014
fiscal year as production increases.  Chinese Funding  Investors are focused on the company expanding its
operations so ‘‘dividends for us are in the future, not in the
immediate,’’ Calder said today.  The company got a $1.5 billion investment from  China ’s
Shandong Iron & Steel Group Co. last year, giving it a 25
percent stake in the mine. It may seek debt funding from the
Asian nation for the Pepel mine expansion that’s estimated to
cost $2 billion to $2.5 billion and is scheduled for 2016. The
expansion is expected to boost capacity to 35 million tons a
year.  Tapping Chinese and western banks for financing is the best
option, Calder said. ‘‘The $500 million that we have earmarked
to kick off the project obviously puts us in a strong
position,” he said, referring to available cash and existing
credit facilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  