-- Magyar Telekom Drops to Record on Cut at Erste: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-06-18T15:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/magyar-telekom-drops-to-record-on-cut-at-erste-budapest-mover.html
Magyar Telekom Nyrt., the Hungarian
unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , fell to the lowest level on record
after a government plan to raise taxes prompted Erste Group Bank
AG to lower its recommendation on the shares.  The stock dropped 1.8 percent to 337 forint by the close in
Budapest and the benchmark BUX Index slipped 0.5 percent,
bringing a two-day decline to 1.8 percent. Hungary plans to
raise charges on telephone calls, mining and financial
transactions, Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  said yesterday.  Erste Bank (EBS)  cut its rating for the stock to reduce from
hold, lowering the price target by 21 percent to 330 forint. The
lender also cut Magyar Telekom’s dividend estimate, projecting
higher costs. The government said the tax measures are necessary
because it miscalculated revenue after the inflation rate
plunged to the lowest since 1974.  “After the higher telecom usage tax, we expect Magyar
Telekom to pay 32.3 billion forint ($147 million) of special
telecom taxes annually,” Vera Sutedja, a Vienna-based analyst
at Erste, wrote in an e-mailed report. “The weak macroeconomic
situation and the heavy political pressure overshadow the
underlying performance of Magyar Telekom.”  Trailing Shares  Hungary is seeking to raise the corporate phone tax to 3
forint per minute or per text message from 2 forint, Varga said
yesterday. Magyar Telekom shares have slumped 6.9 percent in
June, trailing a decrease of 0.4 percent for the BUX Index.
About 2.2 million Magyar Telekom shares were traded today, more
than 1.2 times the three-month daily average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  OTP Bank Nyrt. Hungary’s largest lender, slipped 1.5
percent to 4,800 forint, the lowest close since May 6.  Besides the higher tax on transactions, banks will also be
required to make a payment equivalent to 7 percent of loans that
the central government transferred to its books from debt-laden
municipalities in December, according to a draft bill posted on
Parliament’s website yesterday. The forint depreciated 1.1
percent to 293.9 per euro.  “The new and increased tax charges will add to the burden
on companies and may have a negative impact on economic
growth,” Imre Kerekgyarto and Karoly Bamli, Budapest-based
traders at Commerzbank AG, wrote in an e-mailed report on the
currency.  The Cabinet would like the tax measures, which need the
approval of parliament, to take effect on Aug. 1, MTI state news
service cited Varga as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  