-- AIG Falls as Bernstein Cites Risk to ILFC Deal
-- B y   M e g a n   H i c k e y   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-06-18T15:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/aig-falls-as-bernstein-cites-risk-to-ilfc-deal.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
fell in New York trading as Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. cut its
earnings projections on the prospect that delays in the sale of
a plane-leasing unit extend the wait to resume share buybacks.  AIG slumped 68 cents, or 1.5 percent to $44.47 at 11:12
a.m., the  biggest decline  in the 22-company Standard & Poor’s
500 Insurance Index.  The insurer said yesterday it is open to new offers for its
International Lease Finance Corp. and may pursue an initial
share sale of the business after extending for a second time a
deadline for a group of Chinese investors to buy the unit. The
group, led by New China Trust Co. Chairman Weng Xianding, agreed
in December to pay $4.2 billion for an 80 percent stake in ILFC.  “We think investors should recognize an announcement of
the deal’s termination may soon be coming -- and would expect
the shares to be weak on any headline making clear that the deal
is definitively off,” Bernstein analysts led by Josh Stirling
said in a note today. “The revised purchase contract shows
evidence of AIG itself beginning to disengage from these
buyers.”  Steven Lipin, a spokesman for the acquirers at Brunswick
Group, declined to comment. Matt Gallagher, an AIG spokesman,
didn’t respond to a request for comment.  AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  has been
targeting share repurchases to help boost the New York-based
company’s operating return on equity to 10 percent by the end of
2015. He has said the sale of ILFC would  simplify the company 
and reduce its debt, which he considers an essential step before
resuming buybacks.  “As the probability of a successful near-term closing
declines, we are recognizing this delay in our forecasts for
capital returns, and shift the timing of the firm’s dividends
and buybacks back by a quarter” to the last three months of
this year, the Bernstein analysts wrote.  Stirling is now projecting earnings of $4.03 a share this
year at AIG, down from his prior estimate of $4.10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Megan Hickey in  New York  at 
 mhickey18@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  