-- Air India Loan Case Sent Back to Ex-Im Bank for Review
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-06-18T21:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/air-india-loan-case-sent-back-to-ex-im-bank-for-review.html
The domestic impact of  U.S. Export-Import Bank  loan guarantees for Air India’s purchase of  Boeing
Co. (BA)  aircraft weren’t adequately explained, a federal appeals
court ruled in a challenge by Delta Air Lines Inc.  The agency failed to comply with its governing law when it
provided Air India with $3.4 billion in guarantees and other
support without specifically detailing its assessment of how it
might affect U.S. business, a three-judge panel of the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in Washington said today. It sent the matter
back to the bank for further explanation.  “The bank has not reasonably explained its apparent
conclusion that loans and loan guarantees to help a foreign
company provide a service (as opposed to a good) can never cause
adverse effects to U.S. industries and U.S. jobs,” the court
wrote.  Delta sued in 2011 to block the financing, arguing that the
bank didn’t consider the effect cheaper loans for a foreign
carrier would have on U.S. airlines. The judges said the ruling
didn’t overturn “any part of the bank’s actions in this matter
to date.”  “The bank now will be required to take the complaints of
industry participants seriously before proceeding with
potentially harmful subsidies to foreign airlines,” Atlanta-based Delta said in an e-mailed statement.  International Aircraft  “Export-Import financing for wide-body international
aircraft puts thousands of U.S. airline jobs at risk by
subsidizing foreign carriers that compete directly with Delta
and other U.S. airlines on key international routes,” Delta
said.  The bank hailed the decision as a victory, saying in an e-mailed statement that the ruling left in place financing for the
 Air India  deal.  “I am gratified by the court’s recognition that these
transactions should not be impeded by litigation,” Fred P. Hochberg, chairman and president of Export-Import Bank, said in
the statement. “This represents a victory for tens of thousands
of American aerospace workers.”  The bank approved the guarantees and other support for the
sale of 30 Boeing aircraft, including the new 787 Dreamliner, to
Mumbai-based Air India.  A spokesperson for Air India couldn’t be immediately
reached for comment after regular business hours.  The case is Delta Airlines Inc. v. Export-Import Bank of
the U.S., 12-5294, U.S. Court of Appeals for the  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in  Washington  at   azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  