-- Air Berlin Pilots Plan Pay Strike Amid Strategy Dispute
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-06-18T12:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/air-berlin-pilots-plan-pay-strike-amid-strategy-dispute.html
Pilots at  Air Berlin Plc (AB1) , Europe’s
third-biggest discount carrier, plan a short-term strike
sometime in coming days in a push for higher pay, arguing they
aren’t the ones to blame for losses at the company.  The carrier should make up for wages that lag behind the
average at competitors by at least 10 percent, Markus Germann,
chief negotiator for the Vereinigung Cockpit pilots union, said.
Air Berlin needs to narrow its business focus rather than basing
a turnaround push on employees’ concessions, he said.  “Air Berlin is doing a little bit of everything: touristic
flights, city shuttles and business passengers,” Germann said.
“That strategy obviously doesn’t work, and that’s not the
pilots’ fault.”  The airline outlined a strategy in January of reducing its
fleet and cutting 900 jobs, or 10 percent of its workforce, in a
push to increase earnings by 400 million euros ($535 million) by
2014. Air Berlin, based in the German capital, posted its first
annual net income since 2007 last year only after selling
control of its frequent-flier program to Etihad Airways PJSC,
the carrier’s biggest investor.  Germann declined to specify the union’s demand beyond
saying he wants a “strongly improved offer” from Air Berlin
that would raise pilot wages in about three years to the average
paid by  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s Germanwings low-fare unit,  TUI
AG (TUI1) ’s competing TUIfly division and  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG) ’s
Condor charter brand. He also declined to give dates or times
for the warning strike.  ‘Fair Offer’  Air Berlin made “a fair offer” to pilots on May 12, said
Mathias Radowski, a spokesman, declining to give figures. The
company will do everything it can to minimize effects of any
strike, he said.  Cumulative losses in the four years prior to 2012 amounted
to 610.6 million euros, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg,
and the first-quarter loss in 2013 totaled 196.4 million euros.
The company  plans  to generate an operating profit this year, and
reduce net debt to 500 million euros from 728 million euros on
March 31.  The company is also suffering from capacity constraints at
its Berlin home hub after the opening of a new airport being
built in the city was delayed.  Productivity at the company’s namesake brand is declining
as Air Berlin shifts routes to partner airlines abroad, Germann
said. The airline currently employs almost 1,300 pilots,
according to the labor representative.  Etihad, the Abu Dhabi-based airline that’s the third-biggest Persian Gulf carrier and the owner of a 29 percent stake
in Air Berlin, said in May that it’s recruiting pilots from the
German partner amid an expansion drive by the Middle Eastern
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  