-- Airbus A350 Pits Eager Sales Force Against Risk-Wary Engineers
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-06-18T13:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/airbus-a350-pits-eager-sales-force-against-risk-wary-engineers.html
Airbus SAS said it must strike a
balance in the ramp-up of its new A350 between a sales force
seeking to push out planes and engineers advocating a slower
approach to permit changes before too many aircraft are built.  The manufacturer wants to get production of the A350 up to
three airliners a month by the end of next year so customers can
get their planes on schedule, said Didier Evrard, who oversees
the Toulouse, France-based company’s latest program. Until then,
the aircraft must be put through 2,500 flight test hours to
analyze data and fine tune systems for certification.  “We must be able not only to deliver the first planes, but
to manage the scissor effect of technical challenges that have
diminished in intensity with an industrial ramp-up that grows in
intensity,” Evrard said in an interview at the  Paris Air Show .
“It’s a challenge for our suppliers as well.”  Lifting output while maintaining the flexibility for
retroactive changes on a new plane was a challenge that also
haunted  Boeing Co. (BA)  on its 787 Dreamliner, which had to undergo
fixes in areas such as the tail cone and electrical wiring on
dozens of airliners already built.  John Leahy , Airbus’s sales
chief, has said he would like to see output lifted on the A350
to fill additional slots, particularly for the largest variant.  Airbus is still analyzing the data gathered from the first
A350 flight last week, sifting through as many as 5,000
parameters, as it prepares for a possible second test run
tomorrow, depending on weather conditions, Evrard said.  The A350, made largely of lighter composite materials, aims
to challenge both the Boeing Dreamliner and the larger 777.
Airbus has sold 613 of the aircraft so far, with the mid-sized
-900 accounting for about two thirds of the orders. By 2018,
Airbus wants to more than triple production of the A350-900 to
10 units a month.  “If you have too much work in progress after entry into
service, you have to change the planes and then you can’t
deliver them,” Evrard, 59, said. “Less haste, more speed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  