-- Major League Baseball Sued by San Jose Over A’s Move
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-06-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/major-league-baseball-sued-by-san-jose-over-a-s-move.html
Major League Baseball was sued by
the city of San Jose,  California , accused of improperly keeping
the Oakland Athletics from moving there to shield the nearby San
Francisco Giants from competition.  San Jose alleged in a complaint filed yesterday in federal
court that there’s a “blatant conspiracy” by MLB to prevent
the A’s from moving and the city has lost millions of dollars in
new sales-tax revenue as a result.  San Jose sought baseball Commissioner Bud Selig’s blessing
to relocate the A’s in 2010, according to the complaint. He
hasn’t approved the move, which would place the A’s in the
defined territory of the Giants, according to the suit, which
names Selig as a defendant. The A’s currently play home games at
the O.co Coliseum in Oakland, on the east side of the San
Francisco Bay.  “The Giants have been able to build their base of support
down the west side of the bay,” said Paul Swangard, a
University of Oregon professor and managing director of the
school’s Warsaw Sports Marketing Center. “To have a team move
to San Jose would undermine the support they’ve built up, and
baseball is trying to protect that.”  Rob Manfred, MLB’s executive vice president, said the
league has acted in the best interests of fans and communities.  ‘Unfounded Attack’  “The lawsuit is an unfounded attack on the fundamental
structures of a professional sports league,” he said in an e-mail. “It is regrettable that the city has resorted to
litigation that has no basis in law or in fact.”  A’s owner Lew Wolff didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment about the lawsuit.  Major League Baseball intends to block the A’s move using
provisions of its rules that unlawfully restrict the transfer
and relocation of teams, San Jose said in the complaint. One
such rule says no team can move “within the operating territory
of a member without the written consent of such member.”  A team has exclusive territorial rights in the city where
it’s located and within 50 miles (80 kilometers) of the city’s
corporate limits, according to the complaint. The proposed site
for a new Athletics ballpark in San Jose is 48 miles from the
Giants’ AT&T Park in San Francisco.  Protect Monopolies  The rules let teams unreasonably restrain trade and protect
their monopolies, and deny consumers the benefits that would
flow from increased competition, according to San Jose.  “It has become abundantly clear that Major League Baseball
prefers to use territorial restrictions as an excuse to restrict
commerce and prevent the Athletics from relocating to San
Jose,” San Jose Mayor Chuck Reed said in an e-mailed statement.
“This restriction is costing San Jose residents millions of
dollars in new annual tax revenues that could go towards funding
more police officers, firefighters, libraries, gang prevention
efforts, road repairs and other critical city services.”  Construction of a new ballpark in San Jose has been stalled
by the Giants’ claim of territorial rights to Santa Clara
County, Reed said. The league’s failure to approve the
relocation interferes with an option agreement San Jose has with
the Athletics Investment Group LLC, the limited partnership that
owns and operates the A’s, to purchase property for the
ballpark, according to the e-mail.  Court Order  The city is seeking a court order saying baseball’s actions
violate antitrust law and barring MLB from prohibiting the
relocation of the A’s.  The dispute over moving a team to San Jose, the largest
city in California’s Silicon Valley, dates back to the 1980s,
when the Giants unsuccessfully tried to get San Francisco voters
to approve a new ballpark. The Giants got their own stadium in
San Francisco in 2000.  After San Jose began efforts to bring the A’s south in
2004, the Giants claimed to have exclusive rights to territory
including Santa Clara County, where San Jose is located, and MLB
has stalled progress in getting owners to vote on whether the
A’s can move, according to the complaint.  “San Jose emerged over the past 20 years and is now a
legitimate market unto itself,” Swangard said. “The Giants
don’t want to see the A’s come in and take away part of their
fan base.”  San Jose is California’s third-largest city and home to
Cisco Systems Inc. and  eBay Inc. (EBAY)  Oakland has recently brought in
former Los Angeles Police Chief Chief William Bratton to help
fight growing crime.  “Instead of lawsuits, Oakland is focused on building a new
stadium for the A’s here in their hometown,” Oakland Mayor Jean Quan said in a statement. “We’ve offered two sites: Howard
Terminal is a beautiful waterfront location facing the Bay, and
Coliseum City is one of the great development projects of our
time. Both would make fantastic sites for a new stadium.”  She also said the city continues to negotiate a lease
extension for the team “and I’m confident we can reach a fair
deal.”  The case is City of San Jose v. Office of the Commissioner
of Baseball, 13-cv-02787. U.S. District Court, Northern District
of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  