-- Alberta’s Oil Sands Raise Flaring Emissions as Rules Lag
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-06-18T04:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/alberta-s-oil-sands-raise-flaring-emissions-as-rules-lag.html
In the farming country of northwest
Alberta, heavy  oil wells  are becoming more common than cattle
and combines. Along with money and jobs, the boom has brought
smells and fumes that are adding to the greenhouse gas emissions
from  Canada ’s oil sands.  Emissions from flaring, or burning of natural gas, methane
and hydrogen sulphide associated with oil production, have risen
in each of the last three years as drillers increased activity
and the government failed to implement new industry targets.  “There’s no new absolute target to reduce flare or vent
emissions,” said James Vaughan, who works at the Alberta Energy
Conservation Board’s surveillance branch, in an interview. “The
economics for conserving gas just doesn’t seem to be there”
because of a decline in natural gas prices.  Flaring by companies including  Husky Energy Inc. (HSE)  is rising
even as the Canadian government touts the country’s efforts to
limit emissions to win support for  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone
XL pipeline. Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  met his European
counterparts last week in Paris and  London , appealing for them
to stop EU plans to single out Alberta as a source of high-polluting energy.  Environmental groups such as 350.org and the  Sierra Club 
have lobbied President  Barack Obama  to reject the Keystone XL
pipeline, which would carry crude from Alberta to U.S. Gulf
Coast refineries, saying that oil-sands production has a larger
climate-change impact. Globally, about 5.3 trillion cubic feet
of gas is flared annually, the equivalent of 25 percent of U.S.
consumption of the fuel, according to the  World Bank .  Surging Production  With bitumen production expected to surge to 6.7 million
barrels a day by 2030, flaring and venting will continue to rise
without new regulations, said Chris Severson-Baker, managing
director of the Pembina Institute, a Calgary-based environmental
research group and consultancy.  Flaring and vented gas from crude oil and bitumen
production increased 66 percent between 2009 and 2011, the most
recent figures available, according to ERCB data. The upward
trend continued last year, according to preliminary data from
the regulator.  Previous declines  from 1996 to 2009 resulted from the
implementation of recommendations from an alliance of non-governmental groups, industry, the public and government, known
as the Clean Air Strategic Alliance, helping Alberta achieve the
most “comprehensive” enforcement rules to manage flaring
globally, according to a 2004  World Bank  report.  Negative Impacts  Emissions from flaring in  Nigeria  have “negative impacts”
on lung function, according to a  report  in the Research Journal
of Environmental Earth Sciences published on March 8, 2012.
Inhaling vapors associated with heavy-oil production may result
in nose and throat irritation, headaches and nausea,  Baytex
Energy Corp. (BTE) , a Calgary-based producer, said on its website.  A 2005 report by the Environmental Rights Action and
Climate Justice determined gas flaring in Nigeria’s Bayelsa
State likely causes 49 premature deaths and respiratory
illnesses in 5,000 children annually.  Alberta, home to Canada’s oil and gas industry, relies on
companies to determine whether capturing, burning or releasing
gas, known as venting, is “economically viable,” said the
ERCB’s Vaughn. A combination of measures, including a previous
emissions target for the industry, allowed Alberta regulators to
slash flaring emissions by 80 percent between 1996 and 2009.  Progress Imperiled  That progress is at risk without stiffer regulations and
targets, said Severson-Baker.  “We knew because of industry trends that flaring and
venting was likely to start climbing upwards,” he said in an
interview. “When it came right down to it, industry wasn’t able
to spend more money on flaring and venting abatement and the
government wasn’t prepared to push any further.”  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ)  was responsible for the
largest volume of flared and vented gas in the province in 2011,
followed by Husky, according to regulatory data. Smaller
companies including  Manitok Energy Inc. (MEI)  flared more gas as a
proportion of their production.  Massimo Geremia, chief executive officer of Manitok, didn’t
respond to a request for comment. Husky spokeswoman Kim Guttormson declined to comment. Canadian Natural Resources
declined to comment.  Alberta’s energy regulator is tabling new rules, expected
by the end of the year. An increase in operators drilling oil
wells with small volumes of associated gas, which is difficult
and expensive to capture, has also contributed to the rising
flaring and carbon dioxide emissions, said Vaughn.  Open Wounds  “We are looking at expanding the test to look at other
parameters to take into account something outside of
economics,” he said. “When the public comes to us and asks why
isn’t this facility conserving and we go back to them and say
the economics aren’t there, that’s a hard pill for the public to
swallow.”  Those issues have surfaced in the Peace River district in
an area called Three Creeks. For Thera Breau, the increased
heavy oil production and flaring has coincided with open wounds
and eye problems for her four sons, all under the age of seven.  “My baby had a red spot behind his knee and by the end of
March the blotch spread to the other leg,” Breau, a 36 year-old
physiotherapist, said in an interview. “All the gas is free-vented and free-flared. The regulations are lagging.”  Leaving Home  Breau is among half a dozen families who have left their
homes in the Peace River area to get away from the fumes and bad
smells, she said. Neighbors Marcel and Vivianne Laliberte in
October left their farm where family members have grown grains
since 1928 after suffering from bleeding noses, headaches and
swollen glands.  “It’s a heart-breaking situation,” said Vivianne
Laliberte, in a phone interview. “Proper monitoring is not
being done and people’s concerns are being disregarded.”  Baytex voluntarily halted its drilling program in the area
near Three Creeks about a year ago and added equipment to
capture gas and a pipeline system to use or sell about 1 million
cubic feet of gas daily that would have previously been vented,
said Brian Ector, a Baytex spokesman.  “We’ve put a lot of time and effort into reducing the
amount of venting and reducing the emissions and reducing the
odors up at Peace River,” he said.  Baytex captured almost 95 percent of the gas produced
during oil extraction at its operations across  Alberta , better
than the industry average, according to ERCB data from 2011.  “We have always been fully compliant with the ERCB
regulations, but we want to go above and beyond that,” Ector
said.  North Dakota  Alberta isn’t the only jurisdiction in North America
wrestling with rising flaring and venting emissions.  Oil production in  North Dakota  has tripled since 2010 to
718,790 barrels a day in March and companies are flaring about
30 percent of the associated gases, said Ryan Salmon, director
of the oil & gas program at Ceres, a network of investors that
promotes sustainability through the adoption of environmentally
friendly business practices.  “You can’t underestimate how much is going up in flames--
$1 million a day alone in North Dakota,” he said. “Reluctance
on the part of companies comes down to near-term economics of
getting infrastructure in place. You need to have both voluntary
actions and regulation.” Ceres represents investors with $11
trillion worth of assets.  Oil producers can reduce flaring by connecting the produced
gas to pipelines and selling or using the gas. If that’s not
economic or practical, the “next best” option is to make sure
the waste gas is combusted at the well site using high-efficiency gas incineration equipment to destroy volatile
organic chemicals, said Audrey Mascarenhas, chief executive
officer of Calgary-based  Questor Technology Inc. (QST) , which
manufacturers gas-incineration equipment.  “Many will see the waste gas as still being combusted,
however, when combusted at high efficiency the waste gases are
being reduced to benign elements,” she said. “That is not
happening now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  