-- Almirall CEO Eyes $11.6 Billion COPD Market Smokers Fuel
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-06-18T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/almirall-ceo-eyes-11-6-billion-copd-market-smokers-fuel.html
Almirall SA (ALM) , the best-performing
Spanish pharmaceutical stock, forecast demand for the lung-disease treatment Tudorza Pressair will increase in the U.S. as
more managed-care plans cover the drug.  U.S. prescriptions for the product will significantly climb
as more insurers, including the government-run Medicaid program,
pay for the drug, Chief Executive Officer Eduardo Sanchiz said.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, often caused by smoking,
is the  third-leading cause  of death in the U.S. and the growing
$11.6 billion global market represents “a very important
business opportunity,” Sanchiz said.  Tudorza, also known as aclidinium bromide and Eklira, is
used to treat smokers’ diseases such as bronchitis and
emphysema. The medicine has been struggling to increase its
market share since it was introduced in the U.S. in December,
according to Sam Fazeli, a London-based analyst at Bloomberg
Industries. It was the ninth-most prescribed treatment for
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or COPD, with almost
6,000 prescriptions in the week ending April 26, he said.  “The level of new prescriptions was a bit stalled for a
couple of weeks, but the latest data show growth has resumed,”
Sanchiz, 57, said in an interview at the company’s headquarters
in  Barcelona , Spain. “We expect to make important progress
related to managed-care formularies, which would give a big
boost to the product in the coming weeks.”  Family Affair  Almirall shares have gained 71 percent in the past year and
closed yesterday at 9.60 euros, valuing the company at 1.64
billion euros ($2.2 billion) and outperforming all other Spanish
pharmaceutical stocks and the benchmark  IBEX 35 index . Almirall
said last month first-quarter profit dropped 44 percent to 10.2
million euros as sales fell 10 percent.  “This year’s earnings will be hampered, as it happened
last year already, by big marketing and R&D expenses as well as
the impact from austerity measures,” said Ignacio Ortiz de Mendivil, a Madrid-based analyst at Banco BPI. “Investors,
however, are betting on growth coming from the new drugs from
2014 onwards.”  Almirall’s biggest shareholders -- First Deputy President
Antonio Gallardo and President Jorge Gallardo, who are brothers,
as well as second Deputy President Daniel Bravo --  control
about 71 percent of all shares but “will very likely correct
their position” to as little as 68 percent of ownership,
Sanchiz said.  The Gallardos’ father founded the company in 1943. “The
family wants to keep its important presence in the company,”
Sanchiz said.  Rival Medicine  Smoking-related medical conditions such as COPD are rising
in  emerging markets  in tandem with growing tobacco use, with a
potential patient population of about 75 million in China alone,
according to Bloomberg Industries.  “Even if there’s an impression that people are giving up
smoking, the reality is the market is still growing in emerging
countries,” he said.  Tudorza, which Almirall licensed to  Forest Laboratories
Inc. (FRX)  for the U.S. market, competes with New York-based  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  and  Germany ’s Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s Spiriva lung
drug, which has almost 97 percent market share among the airway
muscle relaxers known as LAMA therapies, Fazeli said.  Tudorza is a powder that patients inhale twice a day, while
Spiriva is taken once a day.  Tudorza Forecast  With Tudorza’s “share of new and switch patients beginning
to plateau in the U.S., it’s possible the inconvenience of twice
a day dosing could be impacting patient uptake more negatively
than expected,” Barclays Plc analysts including Mark Purcell
said in a May 17 report.  Barclays cut estimates on Tudorza’s market share in the
U.S. from 5 percent to 3 percent in 2013, and from 8 percent to
4.5 percent in 2014.  Forest Laboratories said Tudorza sales will reach about  $90
million  in fiscal year 2014 compared with $23 million a year
earlier.  “The main obstacle isn’t the product but the ability to
introduce them into the formularies,” Sanchiz said, referring
to the managed-care system. “We are very convinced that there’s
going to be an evolution. We are optimistic.”  The pharmaceutical company, which in September will host
its first investors’ day since its initial public offering, will
submit for final approval in Europe and the U.S. a combination
product using a reinforced version of Tudorza for patients with
more severe symptoms, in the fourth quarter of this year. Peak
sales for Tudorza and the combo product could reach at least 1
billion euros by 2020, according to information provided by
Almirall.  Deal Strategy  Almirall, which is present in 22 countries through 14
affiliates, is also eyeing growth in  China  and  Brazil  in the
next three to five years, according to Sanchiz. Almirall is
exploring opportunities to enter those markets through a
partnership with a local company, he said.  The Spanish drugmaker would also consider acquisitions to
expand in any of its four divisions: pulmonary disease,
irritable bowel syndrome, skin disorders and multiple sclerosis,
Sanchiz said. No deal would be big enough to burden the balance
sheet with debt, he said. Banco BPI’s Ortiz de Mendivil
estimates Almirall could pursue acquisitions in the range of 100
million euros to 200 million euros from 2014 onwards, according
to a June note.  Meanwhile, the market in Almirall’s home country is cause
for concern, with government cost-cutting measures having a
“brutal impact” on the industry, Sanchiz said.  “The pharmaceutical market in Spain is shrinking to reach
2003 levels,” he said. “We’ve lost basically 10 years of
development.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  