-- FCC Drops Alpine in Austria’s Biggest Postwar Insolvency
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-06-19T14:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/alpine-may-face-austria-s-biggest-insolvency-since-2010.html
Alpine Holding GmbH, the Austrian
builder owned by  Fomento de Construcciones & Contratas SA ,
started a 2.56 billion-euro ($3.4 billion) insolvency today, the
country’s biggest failure since World War II.  Alpine Bau, the company’s operating unit with businesses in
 Austria ,  Germany  and eastern  Europe , filed for insolvency at
Vienna’s commercial court today, credit protection association
 Kreditschutzverband von 1870  said in a statement. Alpine
Holding’s insolvency filing is expected to follow in the next
few days, KSV said. The builder’s three bonds were suspended
from trading in Vienna after falling to record lows yesterday.  “The efforts of the debtor to restructure its liabilities
out of court have failed,” KSV, a group that represents
creditors in insolvency procedures, said in the statement. “An
additional funding of more than 400 million euros would have
been needed to avoid the insolvency.”  Alpine Bau, Austria’s second-biggest builder after  Strabag (STR) 
SE, has 2.56 billion euros in liabilities and equity, KSV said.
That exceeds the insolvencies of industrial group  A-Tec
Industries AG (ATEC)  in 2010 and that of retail cooperative Konsum in
1995, making it the biggest insolvency in Austria’s postwar
history, said Hans-Georg Kantner, a KSV spokesman.  20 Percent  Alpine has filed a recovery plan under which its viable
units would continue, retaining almost a third of its 6,500
employees, while the rest of the group is sold or shut down.
Under this proposal, the group would pay creditors about 20
percent of their claims within the next two years, according to
KSV. The plan will be reviewed by insolvency administrator
Stephan Riel, a Vienna-based lawyer who was appointed today, and
needs the approval of a majority of creditors.  The insolvency ends efforts of creditor banks led by  Erste
Group Bank AG (EBS)  and UniCredit Bank Austria AG, which had agreed to
cut their 520 million euros of claims by 30 percent in March.
That debt cut had left the holders of three bonds worth 290
million euros unscathed. A second debt cut would have required
bondholders to contribute to funding needs of 400 million euros
together with creditor banks and Madrid-based parent FCC, Alpine
said this week.  Michael Mauritz , an Erste spokesman, declined to say how
much the bank has lent to Alpine. The bank set aside
“sufficient” provisions for the loans in the fourth quarter of
last year, he said. UniCredit Bank Austria spokesman Matthias
Raftl said the bank set aside provisions that included Alpine’s
failure. Bawag PSK Bank AG, another large creditor, didn’t have
an immediate comment.  FCC Shares  Alpine’s insolvency will add a net charge of 289 million
euros to this year’s results, FCC said in a statement. Last
year’s accounts already included losses of 420 million euros
caused by Alpine, it said. The company’s  shares  fell as much as
6 percent, the most since Feb. 1, and traded down 5.7 percent at
4:44 p.m. local time.  FCC said in March it would overhaul its business, focusing
on its core areas of environmental services, infrastructure
works and water management as part of a three-year turn-around
plan after posting a 1 billion-euro loss in 2012.  The Austrian government has guaranteed loans to the company
to the extent of 150 million euros. How much of that will come
due because of the insolvency is unclear, Daniela Kinz, a
spokeswoman for the  Finance Ministry , said in response to e-mailed questions.  Porr Interested  Porr AG (POS) , Austria’s third-biggest builder, is interested in
buying parts of Alpine’s Austrian businesses, spokesman Juergen
Leitner said in an e-mailed response to questions. Talks are
already under way, he said. Strabag is not looking at Alpine’s
Austrian unit because a deal would probably not get the
regulator’s approval, Chief Executive Officer Hans-Peter Haselsteiner said at the company’s general meeting last week.  Alpine made a net loss of 449.7 million euros last year,
caused by its German and southeastern European business. The new
funding needs arose as a sale of units agreed in March couldn’t
be completed as quickly as planned, CEO Arnold Schiefer said
yesterday.  The number of corporate insolvencies in Austria climbed 3
percent last year, while the liabilities and equity affected by
the insolvencies rose 14 percent to 3.2 billion euros, according
to KSV, which mostly represents non-bank creditors such as
suppliers in insolvency procedures. The biggest case last year
was CE Gas Marketing & Trading GmbH.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  