-- Angelina Jolie Stunt Double Sues News Corp. Over Hacking
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-06-18T17:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/angelina-jolie-stunt-double-sues-news-corp-over-hacking.html
A British stunt double for actress
 Angelina Jolie  sued  News Corp. (NWS)  alleging the media company hired
private investigators to access her mobile phone voice-mail
messages to seek information for news stories.  The lawsuit, filed in federal court in Los Angeles, is the
first  News Corp. (NWSA)  has faced in the U.S. by someone claiming to
have been a target of phone hacking, according to a person
familiar with the situation who asked not to be identified
because the matter is private.  Eunice Huthart of Liverpool,  England , contends the
intercepts occurred while she was working in  California  in 2004
and 2005, and affected her marriage and family life, according
to the June 13 complaint.  News Corp.’s Sun and News of the World newspapers engaged
in phone hacking “to publish and exploit news articles
concerning the private and confidential affairs” of individuals
“to boost circulation and thereby increase profits,” Huthart
said in court papers.  Huthart said in the complaint that she sometimes didn’t
receive messages left on her cell phone, and at one point her
husband “suspected she was having an affair because she did not
return his voice messages.”  Overseas Calls  Huthart was “despondent” because she missed overseas
calls from her daughter, and “believed she had failed as a
parent,” according the complaint. Huthart said she had worked
with Jolie on films including “Beyond Borders,” “ Tomb Raider
II ” and “Mr. & Mrs. Smith.”  Huthart alleges she missed messages because rogue
journalists tapping into her voice mail would erase it to thwart
competition; let it move into “save” mode, eliminating the
phone alert; or sometimes reset her PIN number, so she was
unable to access her messages and they would eventually
disappear.  In the complaint, she cites violation of U.S. wiretap laws
and a California statute against privacy intrusion.  The New York-based company has been the focus of
investigations during the past three years that uncovered
alleged phone hacking and bribery at the two tabloids. News
Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed the News of the World after
revelations that journalists had illegally accessed messages on
the mobile phone of a murdered school girl.  Huthart seeks a  jury trial , compensatory and punitive
damages and return of ill-gotten proceeds from the hacking.  Nathaniel Brown, a spokesman for News Corp., declined to
comment on the filing.  In another lawsuit, in state court in  Delaware , News
Corp.’s directors agreed in April to a $139 million settlement
of investors’ claims that they turned a blind eye to illegal
conduct including phone hacking by employees.  Insurance covering News Corp.’s board will fund the
settlement of lawsuits seeking to hold directors accountable for
the scandal. As part of the settlement, News Corp. officials
agreed to tighten oversight of the company’s operations and set
up an anonymous whistle-blower hotline for tips about
misconduct.  The case is Huthart v. News Corp., 2:13-cv-04253, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  