-- Anthrax Alerts Delayed as Program Fails Test: Lawmakers
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-06-18T17:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/anthrax-alerts-delayed-as-program-fails-test-lawmakers.html
A U.S. alert  system  designed to
detect deadly pathogens such as anthrax in New York and 33 other
cities is stalled because lawmakers say they are concerned the
next phase may not work.  BioWatch has been delayed and cost estimates have increased
since the program started in 2003 under President George W. Bush
in response to the post-Sept. 11, 2001 anthrax attacks. The
Department of Homeland Security has spent more than $1 billion
on BioWatch over 10 years and hired contractors such as  Northrop
Grumman Corp. (NOC) , of Falls Church, Virginia.  Department of Homeland Security officials want to upgrade
to a system called Gen-3, which would use permanent boxes
containing small, automated laboratories to detect pathogens and
transmit the results to public health officials. Results would
be available in as little as four hours after exposure, compared
with 12 to 36 hours under the current Gen-2 system, which
requires technicians to manually retrieve samples.  “No procurement of this technology can proceed until after
the secretary of Homeland Security certifies the science is
proven,” Representative Tim Murphy, a Republican from
 Pennsylvania , said today at a House Energy and Commerce
subcommittee hearing. He said that would avoid a “boondoggle.”  Estimates of how much the next phase of the program may
cost vary, according to a House Committee on Energy and Commerce
 memo  last week. An internal department document from December
2011 projected spending as much as $7.7 billion over 15 years,
while a Government Accountability Office report estimated costs
would be $5.8 billion over 10 years. Those estimates were
“based on technologies that failed” to meet operational
requirements, the memo said.  ‘No Gen-3’  “Currently there is no Gen-3,” Michael Walter, BioWatch
program manager at the Department of Homeland Security, said
today at the hearing. It’s “been placed on hold,” he said.  Northrop, the fifth-biggest government contractor on
Bloomberg Government’s list of the 200 largest federal
contractors, has worked since at least 2009 to develop
technology for BioWatch.  Murphy said that if the science underlying the next phase
of BioWatch is proven, “DHS would be expected to pursue the
multibillion dollar” program.  Last year, Congress cut about $40 million from the program
that Homeland Security department officials had requested. It
also required the department’s secretary to “certify” the
technology is effective before the agency can begin procuring
the next phase of the system, according to memo.  Hasty Implementation  Representative Henry Waxman, of  California , the top
Democrat on the committee, said in a statement BioWatch was
“implemented too hastily” and that delaying the next phase
will “protect taxpayers.”  BioWatch is installed at undisclosed locations in cities
including Boston, Chicago and Houston. The system is set up to
detect pathogens indoors and out.  In at least one instance, the program has worked. After an
antiwar protest in 2005, BioWatch filters in Washington picked
up traces of a bacterium that causes a potentially deadly
infection called tularemia, according to the Department of
Homeland Security and city health department.  No cases of illness were reported. Health officials later
said the protesters may have kicked up soil contaminated with
harmless quantities of the bacterium.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Miller in  Washington  at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  