-- Anti-Hezbollah Group Wants UN Troops on Lebanon-Syria Border
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-06-18T18:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/anti-hezbollah-group-calls-for-un-troops-on-lebanon-syria-border.html
A Western-backed Lebanese group
called for the deployment of United Nations peace keepers along
the border with  Syria  as the spillover of violence draws Lebanon
deeper into its neighbor’s civil war.  In a letter to President Michel Suleiman today, the March
14 coalition also called for the immediate withdrawal from Syria
of Lebanese Hezbollah guerrillas who are shoring up Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad, Lebanon’s official National News
Agency reported today. The group, a coalition of Christian and
mostly Sunni Muslim political parties opposed to Assad, wants to
model the border force on one along the border with  Israel  that
includes both UN and Lebanese army troops.  With the spillover from the Syrian war escalating, Suleiman
sent a complaint to the UN today about violations against
Lebanese territory by all warring groups in Syria, NNA said.  The Syrian conflict has taken on an increasingly sectarian
tone as it pulls in pro- and anti-Assad forces in Lebanon.
Syrian helicopters have attacked border areas on the ground that
they harbored predominantly Sunni Muslim rebels, while Hezbollah
chief Hassan Nasrallah has accused anti-Assad forces of shelling
Shiite Muslim border villages in Lebanon.  One person was killed and four injured today in clashes in
the southern Lebanon town of Abra, NNA  said . The Daily Star
newspaper  said  the fighting pitted supporters of radical Sunni
cleric Sheikh Ahmed al-Assir and members of the Resistance
Brigades, a pro-Hezbollah group.  Ashton Visit  European Union foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton is
discussing the situation in Lebanon during a visit to Beirut.
Ashton met with Caretaker Prime Minister Najib Mikati yesterday
and with Suleiman today.  Her meeting today with Foreign Minister Adnan Mansour was
canceled, according to NNA, which didn’t give a reason. Mansour
has called on the Arab League to reinstate Syria as a member to
help to find a political solution to its war and criticized the
league for condemning Hezbollah’s involvement in Syria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in  Beirut  at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  