-- Arnold & Porter, Skadden, Cravath, Willkie: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-06-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/arnold-porter-skadden-cravath-willkie-business-of-law.html
Arnold & Porter  LLP’s Deborah Feinstein was named director of the Federal Trade Commission’s
Bureau of Competition by FTC Chairwoman Edith Ramirez, who also
named six other senior staff members with consumer protection
and antitrust law experience.  “I am very pleased to have such a strong leadership team
at the FTC,” Ramirez said in a statement. “Their knowledge and
experience will help keep the FTC at the forefront in promoting
competition and protecting American consumers.”  Feinstein is the head of Arnold & Porter’s U.S. antitrust
practice group. She joined the FTC in 1989 and was an assistant
to former Bureau of Competition Director Kevin Arquit and an
attorney adviser to former Commissioner Dennis Yao.  Among her representative matters are advising General
Electric and  NBC Universal  in connection with the Comcast-NBCU
joint venture; Unilever in its acquisition of the Alberto Culver
hair care business and Pepsi in the acquisitions of PepsiCo
Bottling Group Inc. and PepsiAmericas Inc., according to her
firm profile.  Additional FTC staff appointments include Jessica Rich to
lead the Bureau of Consumer Protection. Rich had been associate
director in charge of the division of financial practices since
January 2012.  Jonathan E. Nuechterlein, a Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale &
Door LLP partner who was chairman of his firm’s communications,
privacy, and Internet law practice group, will be general
counsel. He previously was deputy general counsel for the
Federal Communications Commission from 2000 to 2001 and an
assistant to the Solicitor General at the U.S. Justice
Department from 1996 to 2000.  Andrew I. Gavil, a Howard University School of Law
professor, will continue as director of policy planning.
Randolph W. Tritell continues as director of the office of
international affairs. He previously led the FTC’s International
Antitrust Division and was a partner at Weil Gotshal & Manges
LLP.  Jeanne Bumpus will remain director of the office of
congressional relations. Heather Hippsley will be chief of staff
to the chairwoman.  The Federal Trade Commission works to protect consumers
from fraudulent, deceptive, and unfair business practices.  Obama Chooses Skadden’s Sloan as Guantanamo Closure Envoy  Clifford Sloan, a partner at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher
and Flom LLP, was named as the State Department’s special envoy
to shut the U.S. military-run prison.  Sloan for several years has been an informal adviser to
Secretary of State  John Kerry , and has served in both Republican
and Democratic administrations.  The  Washington  litigator has handled cases involving a
range of industries, including intellectual property and media
and entertainment issues. In February 2012, he argued before the
U.S.  Supreme Court  in a case about the scope of double jeopardy
and he’s handled cases for  Rosetta Stone  and the Bon Jovi band.  From 2000 to 2008, Sloan was the general counsel of
Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive, The Washington Post Co.’s
online subsidiary. From 2005 to 2008, he also was publisher of
Slate Magazine, which was acquired by The Washington Post Co. in
2005.  He was associate counsel to President  Bill Clinton  from
1993 to 1995. From 1989 to 1991 he was assistant to the
Solicitor General.  Deals  Weyerhaeuser to Buy Longview for $2.65 Billion to Add Timber  Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP represented  Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) , a
U.S. real-estate investment trust that owns timberland, which
agreed to buy Longview Timber LLC for $2.65 billion including
debt from affiliates of  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A)  in the
third-largest forestry acquisition in  North America .  The Cravath team included partners Richard Hall and Erik R. Tavzel, mergers and acquisitions; James C. Vardell III, banking;
Andrew W. Needham, tax; and Matthew Morreale, environmental.  The deal is expected to close in July and immediately add
to Weyerhaeuser’s  funds for distribution , the Federal Way,
Washington-based company said in a statement. Weyerhaeuser plans
to boost its quarterly cash dividend to 22 cents a share in
September from 20 cents.  Weyerhaeuser, which also said that former Temple-Inland
Inc. Chief Executive Officer Doyle Simons will take over as its
chief executive officer in August, will get about 645,000 acres
(261,000 hectares) of timberlands in Washington and  Oregon  from
buying Longview. The deal will boost the U.S. acreage that it
owns or controls to about 6.6 million.  Weyerhaeuser said it plans to finance the deal by raising
about $2.45 billion through selling debt and equity and has a
committed senior unsecured bridge loan facility with Morgan
Stanley. It will offer 28 million common shares in a public
offering, it said in a statement yesterday.  Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP is advising Morgan Stanley. Weil
partners on the deal include Morgan Bale and Danek Freeman,
banking; Jennifer Bensch,  capital markets ; Raymond Gietz,
mergers and acquisitions; Larry Horton, tax; and Annemargaret
Connolly, environmental.  The takeover is the largest forestry acquisition in North
America after Resource Management Service LLC’s $5 billion
purchase of  International Paper Co. (IP)  assets in 2006 and Plum
Creek Timber Co.’s $3.34 billion acquisition of a timber
business from Georgia-Pacific LLC in 2001, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  For more, click here.  Rockwood to Sell Germany’s CeramTec to Cinven for $2 Billion  Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP partner Georg Linde led a team
that provided legal advice to  Rockwood Holdings Inc. (ROC) , the
largest producer of lithium products, which agreed to sell
German ceramics unit CeramTec to Cinven Ltd. for 1.49 billion
euros ($2 billion) to focus on its metal business and  return
cash  to shareholders.  Cinven, a buyout firm dedicated to investing in  Europe ,
expects to close the acquisition of CeramTec in the third
quarter, subject to European Union competition clearance,
Rockwood said in a statement.  CeramTec makes ceramic parts for replacement knees and hips
as well as components for the electronic and auto industries.
Rockwood Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Seifi Ghasemi is
selling the business as he narrows the focus of the company. He
said that Princeton, New Jersey-based Rockwood will use the
proceeds to support its “balanced approach” to  debt reduction ,
return of capital to shareholders and investment in other
businesses.  Cinven, with offices in Guernsey,  London ,  Frankfurt , Paris,
Milan,  Luxembourg  and  Hong Kong , won the bid for CeramTec over
competitors, which included Permira Advisers LLP and  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , according to three people familiar with the matter in
April. The  firm , which raised 5.3 billion euros this month,
invests in companies with needs of more than 100 million euros
in equity.  For more, click here.  Moves  Linklaters Hires Pan-Asia Antitrust Senior Partner  Linklaters LLP announced that antitrust lawyer Clara Ingen-Housz will join the firm in October as a partner in its pan-Asian antitrust practice, in Hong Kong. She is at Baker &
McKenzie LLP.  Ingen-Housz has experience in the U.S, Europe and  Asia ,
including  China , in antitrust work. Her appointment will enable
the firm to expand its focus on Chinese antitrust work and to
develop a practice across Asia, including Hong Kong.  Linklaters has lawyers at 28 offices worldwide.  Ogletree Deakins Adds Wage and Hour Practitioner in New York  Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart PC added Eric Su
as a shareholder in its  New York  City office. Su joins the firm
from Tarter, Krinsky & Drogin LLP, where he was a partner in the
firm’s labor and employment, litigation and construction
practice groups.  Su focuses his practice primarily on labor and employment
matters, as well as governmental affairs. His labor law practice
focuses on investigations conducted by federal and state labor
departments, collective bargaining negotiations, unfair labor
practice charges, and other union-related issues.  Su is the 18th shareholder to join Ogletree Deakins in 2013
and the third shareholder to join the firm’s  New York City 
office.  Ogletree Deakins has more than 650 lawyers located in 44
offices across the U.S. and in Europe.  Baker & Hostetler Hires Telecommunications Lawyer in Washington  Telecommunications lawyer Gary S. Lutzker and another
lawyer joins Baker & Hostetler LLP as partner in Washington. The
lawyers previously worked together at Dow Lohnes, PLLC.  Lutzker focuses his practice on communications and
telecommunications law, regulation, transactions and policy. He
counsels communications and media clients on transactions,
operational issues and agreements, franchising, regulatory
compliance and other matters.  Baker & Hostetler has more than 800 attorneys at 11 U.S.
offices.  Litigation  Drugmakers Opened to ‘Pay for Delay’ Suits by Supreme Court  Drugmakers can be sued for paying rivals to delay low-cost
versions of popular medicines, the U.S. Supreme Court said in a
decision that rewrites the rules governing the release of
generic drugs.  The 5-3 ruling is largely a victory for the Federal Trade
Commission and the Obama administration, reversing a lower-court
ruling that had effectively insulated pharmaceutical companies
from liability. The FTC says those “pay for delay” accords
cost drug purchasers as much as $3.5 billion a year. The
industry says the deals are legitimate patent settlements.  Deputy Solicitor General Malcolm Stewart argued for the
government and Jeffrey Weinberger, of Munger, Tolles & Olson
LLP, argued for the respondents.  The ruling may lead to lawsuits by wholesalers, retailers,
insurers and antitrust enforcers.  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,  Merck & Co. (MRK)  and
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  units already have faced claims. The
FTC says 40 pay-for-delay accords, also known as reverse
payments, were reached in fiscal 2012 alone.  “A reverse payment, where large and unjustified, can bring
with it the risk of significant anticompetitive effects,”
Justice  Stephen Breyer  said in the court’s majority opinion.  Breyer stopped short of adopting the FTC’s proposal that
such agreements should be presumed anticompetitive. He said the
accords should be evaluated under a longstanding antitrust test
known as the “rule of reason.”  A federal appeals court had said pharmaceutical companies
can’t be sued unless the patent litigation is a sham or a
generic-drug maker agrees to delay introduction even after the
patent has expired.  The high court case centered on Androgel, a treatment for
low testosterone in men that is made by Solvay Pharmaceuticals
Inc. The FTC sued Solvay and three generic-drug companies,
including  Actavis Inc. (ACT)   The case is Federal Trade Commission v. Actavis, 12-416,
U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Audio  Sullivan & Cromwell’s Cohen Says Fed Preventing Bank Mergers  H. Rodgin Cohen, a lawyer who has represented big banks as
senior chairman at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, says Federal Reserve
policy is “hindering” bank mergers.  Cohen talks with Bloomberg’s  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen on
 Bloomberg Radio ’s “ Bloomberg Surveillance .”  This is a Bloomberg podcast. For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  