-- Harper Ends Trip Unable to Win Canada-EU Trade Deal
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-06-18T16:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/harper-ends-trip-unable-to-win-canada-eu-trade-deal.html
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper 
concludes his eight-day European trip unable to complete a trade
agreement with the European Union, just as the opening of EU-U.S. talks raises the risk that  Canada  will be left out.  Harper, who met German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and Italian
Prime Minister Enrico Letta on the sidelines of the Group of
Eight leaders’ summit in  Northern Ireland , couldn’t persuade his
European peers to drop their remaining objections in the talks.
One of the biggest sticking points for Canada is access for the
country’s beef and pork producers, a concession that faces
resistance from France and Ireland, two of Europe’s biggest meat
suppliers.  Failure to ultimately reach an accord would undermine
Harper’s efforts to diversify  Canada’s trade  away from the U.S.,
its largest trading partner. While Harper has made free trade a
key plank of his economic agenda, completing six accords since
2006, none have been with major economies.  “The longer the matter is not brought to a conclusion, the
more likely it becomes that the European Union will turn its
attention to the U.S.,” said Lawrence Herman, a lawyer at
Cassels Brock & Blackwell LLP in Toronto who specializes in
trade issues, by telephone June 7. If a pact isn’t reached in
the next few weeks, it would represent “a rather serious
setback for Canadian trade policy, given all the efforts of the
Harper administration,” he said.  Biggest Deal  Harper returns to Ottawa tonight after the summit’s
conclusion, a day after Merkel joined U.S. President  Barack Obama , U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  in announcing that talks will begin next
month on what Cameron called “the biggest bilateral trade deal
in history.” Harper has no announcements scheduled today.  Cameron, speaking to reporters following the summit, said
Canada and the EU made a lot of progress this week and are very
close to a pact.  “One more go and it will be there,” Cameron said. “The
pressure of this G-8 I think really got through a lot of the
final issues and it’s now down to the last few yards and I’m
sure it will be done.”  The risk is that the U.S. will leapfrog Canada in talks
with Europe, as it did in finishing a trade pact with  South
Korea  last year. Negotiations between Canada and the Asian
nation  reached  an impasse in 2008 after 13 rounds of
discussions.  Progress Continues  Harper’s chief spokesman Andrew MacDougall said this month
he didn’t expect the prime minister to sign a pact with the EU
on the week-long trip, where he met Cameron, French President
 Francois Hollande  and Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny .  “We’re not quite there, but we continue to make progress
and we continue to be committed to progress,” Harper told
reporters today. While the start of U.S.-EU talks may give some
“disadvantages” for the negotiations with Canada, Harper said
it doesn’t change his view that “we should stay at the table
until we get a deal that’s in the best interests of Canadians.”  Former Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  has said the
nation’s poor export performance since 2000, the second worst in
the Group of 20 after the U.K, is due to the country’s reliance
on the  U.S. economy .  Canadian companies such as Toronto-based insurer  Manulife
Financial Corp. (MFC)  and Montreal’s commercial-jet maker  Bombardier
Inc. (BBD/B)  have backed an agreement, while European companies
including engineering conglomerate  Siemens AG (SIE)  of Munich and
London-based miner  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  are supportive.  Strategic Step  “A Canada-EU agreement can serve as a strategic and
important step towards the eventual creation of a comprehensive
transatlantic trade and investment area,” senior executives of
more than 100 European and Canadian companies said in a joint
 declaration  supporting a deal.  “We are very close to an agreement,” said  John Clancy , EU
trade spokesman, in an e-mailed statement today. “The EU has
shown pragmatism and flexibility and is ready to take the last
steps to achieve a political breakthrough in the negotiations.
We have been awaiting a similar message from Canada since the
Trade and Agriculture Ministers met in Ottawa in early
February.”  Canada has relatively more to gain from a deal, according
to a joint  study  released in 2008 by the Canadian government and
the European Commission. An agreement would increase annual
Canadian gross domestic product by 8.2 billion euros ($10.9
billion), equivalent at the time to about 0.77 percent of the
country’s output, the study found. The EU economy would increase
its annual output by 11.6 billion euro, or 0.08 percent.  Export Shares  While the EU bought 8.9 percent of Canadian exports in
2012, Canada represented 1.9 percent of total EU exports,
according to  Statistics Canada  and Eurostat data. The U.S.
received almost three-quarters of Canada’s exports in April.  The EU is seeking more access to Canada’s protected dairy
market, while Canada wants its beef producers to be allowed to
export more than 40,000 metric tons to Europe, according to
Matthias Brinkmann, the European Union’s ambassador to Canada.  Brinkmann said May 9 in Ottawa that while the EU is willing
to meet and potentially exceed the 40,000 metric ton figure, the
two sides remain apart.  “There’s a certain limit that we
cannot go above, because then our own producers in some
countries depend very much on that, like Ireland and France,”
he said.  Canada is seeking more benefits for its cattle farmers at a
time when live cattle prices have dropped 8.9 percent this year.  Politically Sensitive  The beef impasse is politically sensitive for Harper’s
Conservative Party because Alberta, Canada’s largest cattle-producing province, has Conservatives  holding  26 of its 28
districts in the federal legislature, including Harper’s.  Securing more access for beef and pork is “extremely
important” to Canada, Canadian Agriculture Minister Gerry Ritz
told reporters on a conference call June 7.  The country’s biggest federal opposition party is worried
the government may compromise Canadian interests in pushing for
a deal. “Desperation is a singularly bad adviser,” Tom Mulcair, leader of the  New Democratic Party , told reporters at a
news conference in Ottawa on June 7.  The agreement may increase the cost of  prescription drugs 
by expanding patent protection for European pharmaceutical
companies, harm Canadian dairy farmers and take away power from
cities and provinces to choose suppliers for procurement
projects, according to the NDP.  For its part, the EU wants to use a Canadian free trade
agreement as a template for other talks. “It will help us in
the negotiations with the U.S. and other developed countries if
we can show we managed this and we can do such a comprehensive
agreement,” Brinkmann said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Enniskillen, Northern Ireland at  amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  