-- Arsenal Will Make Club-Record Bid for Higuain: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-18T07:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/arsenal-will-make-club-record-bid-for-higuain-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Record Bid  Arsenal will make a club-record 22 million-pound ($34.5
million) offer this week for Real Madrid striker Gonzalo Higuain,
the  Daily Mail reported .  The Argentine forward, who has been told he can leave the
Spanish team, is said to have privately agreed to join the
Gunners this offseason and the two clubs now need to agree on a
price, the newspaper added.  Arsenal also wants to sign Real Sociedad’s 10 million-pound
rated defensive midfielder Asier Illarramendi, the Mail said.  Transfer Request  Liverpool will tell striker Luis Suarez that he has to put
in a transfer request if he wants to leave the Premier League
club, the  Sun reported .  The 26-year-old forward, who has a 40 million-pound buy-out
clause in his contract, has been courting a move to Spain while
playing for Uruguay at the Confederations Cup, the Sun added.  Shakhtar Donetsk midfielder Henrikh Mkhitaryan is scheduled
to have a medical exam today ahead of his proposed 23 million-pound move to Liverpool, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Tottenham Targets  Tottenham Hotspur will offer Corinthians 15 million pounds
for Brazilian midfielder Paulinho to fend off competition from
Inter Milan and Roma, the  Daily Mail reported .  Spurs, who could sell Emmanuel Adebayor to Fenerbahce to
help free up funds, may need to increase their bid to 18 million
pounds for the 24-year-old, the Mail added.  Tottenham manager Andre Villas-Boas also wants to sign
Internacional striker Leandro Damiao and Barcelona forward David Villa, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Malaga to Manchester  Manchester City expects to sign Malaga midfielder Isco
ahead of Real Madrid because it can offer the 21-year-old
regular first-team starts, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Isco, who will play for Spain in today’s European Under-21
Championship final against  Italy , said he’s considering offers
from City and Real, the Telegraph added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  