-- Ashtead CEO Looks to Steady U.S. Recovery to Double Market Share
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-06-18T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/ashtead-ceo-looks-to-steady-u-s-recovery-to-double-market-share.html
Ashtead Group Plc (AHT) , the  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX) ’s best performer over four years, said it has the
tailwind to grow sales “aggressively” for several years as the
U.S. market for rental equipment benefits from tight credit and
steady growth.  “A slow market with difficult credit conditions
accelerates our gain in market share and the switch to rental,”
Chief Executive Officer Geoff Drabble, 53, said in an interview
ahead of tomorrow’s announcement of results for the year ended
April. “Low, steady growth is the perfect environment for us.”  The increased use of rental equipment by cash-strapped
house builders and construction companies, coupled with the
recent recovery in the U.S. housing market, has boosted
Ashtead’s  share price  almost 12-fold since the start of June
2009. The  U.S. economy  grew 2.2 percent last year and may cool
to grow 1.9 percent this year while annualized sales of  new
homes  rose in April at the second-fastest pace in almost five
years.  “Right now I think we are about six to nine months into
that perfect two years where you get a little bit of recovery in
the market and you get the structural change,” Drabble said.
“We have always known our profit was going to grow and our
revenue was going to grow. It has probably grown a little bit
faster than we expected.”  Message Ingrained  That helped London-based Ashtead beat analysts’  estimates
for revenue  for the last 12 quarters and allowed it to raise its
profit forecast for each of the past seven. Ashtead will report
fiscal full-year pretax profit of 234 million pounds ($369
million), according to the average  estimate  in a Bloomberg
survey. That’s 75 percent higher than the record from a year
earlier.  “Ashtead has many years of super-normal growth ahead,”
Justin Jordan, an analyst at Jefferies Group LLC with a  buy
rating  on the stock, said by telephone. “The message that you
don’t need to tie up capital is getting increasingly ingrained
into the psyche.”  The group has scope to double its business just by having a
“mid-teens” market share, compared with the 6 percent it has
now, said Drabble, who has been CEO since the start of 2007. In
each of the past two years, revenue has jumped about 20 percent,
compared with 7 percent for the industry as a whole.  “We’re already at peak profits,” the CEO said. “Our
starting point is our previous high point. Where we are now,
these ought to be our new bottom of the cycle profits not our
new top of the cycle profits. That’s the bit I don’t think
people have quite got their heads around.”  Scarce Capital  The economic downturn and resulting credit crunch has
already resulted in rental market penetration increasing to
about 50 percent as companies reallocate scarce capital. That
will likely rise to about 65 percent, while construction output
needs to rise by about 60 percent just to match its previous
2006 peak, Drabble said.  Sunbelt Rentals, Ashtead’s  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
unit that accounts for about 95 percent of sales has been helped
by  United Rentals Inc.’s (URI)  $2.5 billion acquisition of RSC
Holdings Inc. last year. That resulted in its larger rival
focusing less on growing market share, Drabble said. United
closed the equivalent of 50 percent of Sunbelt’s business in the
past year, shuttering about 200 locations, he said.  Increase Spending  Some analysts think Ashtead needs to increase spending to
justify the current  share price , which has surged 167 percent in
the past year and closed yesterday at 623 pence. Market
capitalization of almost 3.2 billion pounds means it’s close to
entering the  benchmark FTSE 100 Index .  Even with 1 billion pounds more than currently expected in
 capital spending  over the next three years, net debt would be
below target, Mark Howson, an analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd.
who recommends investors buy the stock, said in a note.  Drabble expects construction output to match previous highs
in coming years, with housing playing a less prominent role and
non-residential construction exceeding 2006 levels, helped by
shale-energy development and associated hydraulic fracturing or
fracking.  “I have got enough tailwinds that my revenue should
continue to grow aggressively for a number of years unless we do
something seriously stupid,” Drabble said. ’’We are like a
supertanker. Once we start heading in the right direction we are
hard to stop.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  