-- Australia Clinches World Cup Spot With Iran, South Korea
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-18T18:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/australia-secures-soccer-world-cup-berth-by-beating-iraq-1-0.html
Australia  scored with seven minutes
remaining to beat  Iraq  1-0 and secure one of Asia’s final three
direct berths at next year’s soccer World Cup alongside Iran and
South Korea.  Striker Josh Kennedy scored five minutes after coming off
the substitutes’ bench at Sydney’s ANZ Stadium last night to
send the Socceroos to the four-yearly championship for the third
straight time. They join  Japan  in advancing from Group B in
Asia’s fourth qualifying round.  “It’s been a really tough campaign,” Australia captain
Lucas Neill said in a televised interview. “Sorry, it wasn’t
pretty. But we’ve beaten what was in front of us and pushed
ourselves on to a very exciting tournament.”  Iran  advanced as the  Group A  winner after Reza
Ghoochannejhad’s goal in Ulsan sealed a 1-0 victory against the
South Koreans, who secured their eighth straight World Cup
appearance as the group runner-up on goal difference ahead of
 Uzbekistan , which routed Qatar 5-1.  Uzbekistan, which scored all five goals in the second half
in Tashkent, finished in third place. It will face Jordan, 1-0
winner over Oman, in a playoff on Sept. 6 and 10. The winner of
that two-match series will take on South America’s fifth-ranked
team, currently Uruguay, for another spot at next year’s 32-nation tournament in  Brazil .  After qualifying for the 2010 edition with two games to
spare, four draws from its first seven matches had left
Australia needing to beat Iraq to guarantee a direct berth.  Substitute Scores  In front of a crowd of 80,532 in rainy Sydney, the
Socceroos struggled to break down an understrength Iraq until
the 83rd minute when Kennedy, making his first appearance for
the national team in 19 months, headed Mark Bresciano’s cross
past visiting goalkeeper Noor Sabri.  Kennedy ran to the corner flag to celebrate and was mobbed
by his teammates on the pitch and substitutes’ bench. His
arrival in place of fan favorite Tim Cahill minutes earlier had
been met with jeers from some sections of the crowd. Cahill, who
plays for the  New York  Red Bulls, had a downtown Sydney highway
temporarily named after him in the build-up to the match.  “I guess it was meant to be, the boss was saving me for
the last game obviously,” Kennedy said. “It was absolutely
amazing. It’s been a long road to get back where I am now and
this is the icing on the cake.”  The Socceroos finished with 13 points in Group B, four
behind Japan, which two weeks ago became the first time to
qualify for the World Cup. Brazil, the record five-time
champion, has an automatic berth as the tournament host.  Jordan got the win it needed to clinch third place in Group
B with a 1-0 victory over  Oman  in Amman, Ahmad Ibrahim scoring
in the 57th minute. Jordan finished on 10 points ahead of Oman
(9) and Iraq (5).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  