-- Aussie Falls as RBA Minutes Show Scope for Currency to Weaken
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-06-18T06:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/australian-new-zealand-dollars-snap-declines-before-fed-meeting.html
The Australian dollar extended this
quarter’s biggest decline among major counterparts after the
 Reserve Bank  indicated the currency may weaken further.  The Aussie slid against all 16 of its major peers after the
minutes from this month’s central bank meeting showed policy
makers see room to ease borrowing costs further. The Australian
and  New Zealand  dollars fell for a third day against the
greenback before the  Federal Reserve  begins a policy meeting
today that may point to when it will curtail quantitative
easing.  “The interpretation by the markets is the RBA is giving
the green light for the Aussie to go lower,” said David de Garis, a senior economist at National  Australia  Bank Ltd. in
 Melbourne . “Positioning in the Aussie has been excessively
short, so it’s probably got some support on the downside.” A
short position is a bet an asset’s price will decline.  Australia’s currency weakened 0.6 percent to 94.87 U.S.
cents as of 4:40 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it slipped
0.3 percent. New Zealand’s kiwi dollar lost 0.3 percent to 79.71
U.S. cents, following a 1.3 percent drop in the past two days.  “It was possible that the  exchange rate  would depreciate
further over time as the terms of trade declined, which would
help to foster a rebalancing of growth in the economy,”
according to minutes released today from the RBA’s June 4
meeting, when the central bank left its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at a record-low 2.75 percent. “The board also judged
that the inflation outlook as currently assessed might provide
some scope for further easing, should that be required to
support demand.”  Biggest Decliner  The Aussie has tumbled 9.8 percent in the past three
months, the most among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. New Zealand’s dollar is
the next biggest decliner, with a 4 percent drop.  Futures traders extended record bets that the Aussie will
fall against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission from last week showed. The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the Aussie compared with those
on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 63,277 on June 11, the
most in data going back to January 1993.  Trading in over-the-counter options on the Aussie against
the U.S. dollar jumped to $524 million, the most-traded pair in
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the
exchange rate accounted for 26 percent of trades compared with
19 percent for dollar-yen options, the second-most traded pair.  FOMC Meeting  The U.S. Federal Open Market Committee starts a two-day
policy meeting today. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month
the Fed may consider reducing its purchases of $85 billion in
bonds per month within “the next few meetings” if there are
signs of sustainable improvement in the labor market.  “Short term, I see quite a bit of volatility and
uncertainty” in  currency markets , said Janu Chan, a Sydney-based economist at St. George Bank Ltd. “And that’s largely to
do with the outlook for the U.S. and Fed policy. Among officials
there are mixed signals about what they want to do, whether to
taper or not, and I don’t think data has made the argument
stronger either way.”  The Fed will trim its quantitative-easing program to $65
billion of bond purchases a month at their Oct. 29-30 meeting,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  