-- Autism Tied to Air Pollution, Brain-Wiring Disconnection
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-06-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/autism-tied-to-air-pollution-brain-wiring-disconnection.html
Researchers seeking the roots of
autism have linked the disorder to chemicals in air pollution
and, in a separate study, found that language difficulties of
the disorder may be due to a disconnect in brain wiring.  Researchers from Harvard University’s School of  Public
Health  found that pregnant women exposed to high levels of
diesel particulates or mercury were twice as likely to have an
autistic child compared with peers in low-pollution areas. The
findings, published today in  Environmental Health Perspectives ,
are from the largest U.S. study to examine the ties between air
pollution and autism.  One in 50 U.S. children are diagnosed with autism or a
related disorder, according to the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention. Children with autism may be unresponsive to
people, become indifferent to social activity and have
communication difficulties. A separate study from Stanford
University and published in  Proceedings of the National Academy
of Sciences  is the first to suggest that weak connections
between brain regions for speaking and reward may be why.  “There isn’t a lot of data to strongly point at what are
the root causes of the social deficits in children with
autism,”  Daniel Abrams , a postdoctoral research fellow at
 Stanford University  in  California , said in a telephone
interview. “We think it has this important motivation and
reward component to it.”  The cause of autism isn’t known, though genetic factors are
thought to be important, according to the  National Institutes of
Health .  Previous Findings  The link to air pollution was  initially made in 2006  by a
group led by Gayle Windham at the California Department of
Health Services. Another study, published in November 2012, also
found links between air pollution and autism.  “People were skeptical” of the initial report from
Windham’s group, said  Marc Weisskopf , an author of today’s study
and an associate professor of environmental health and
epidemiology at Harvard University’s School of Public Health in
 Boston . “I went to do this in a larger setting, not at all
convinced we would see anything.”  The Harvard researchers used data from the  Nurse’s Health
Study 2 , a long-term study involving more than 116,000 nurses,
begun in 1989. Within that group, the scientists looked at 325
women who had a child with autism and 22,000 women who had
children without the disorder.  EPA Data  Using data from the Environmental Protection Agency,
researchers estimated the women’s exposure to toxins, a method
Weisskopf said is imperfect. Many of the compounds travel
together in the air, so separating their contributions was
difficult. What’s more, the EPA data is taken once every four
years, so it’s an imprecise way of estimating exposure, and
doesn’t take into account women’s contact from traveling to
places other than their homes.  “There’s a lot of error in estimating what the mother’s
exposed to,” he said. His study is large enough to suggest
follow-up studies with more precise methods of detecting
chemicals in the air, he said.  The study also found that including lead exposure was also
associated with increased risks of autism.  About 2 percent of American school children were diagnosed
with autism disorders in 2011 and 2012, according to the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention.  Language Study  In the language study, brain imaging determined that the
connections between brain regions for language and reward were
stronger in children who don’t have the disorder than in those
diagnosed with it, said Abrams. That’s important because
communication problems are key diagnostic criteria for autism.  Insensitivity to human speech can affect a child’s early
development, the authors said. Typical infants will listen to
human speech and engage with sounds as a way to develop early
language skills and emotional understanding, as well as to bond
with their parents, the authors wrote.  The researchers looked at how the speech part of the brain
was connected to other regions. Those with autism had weaker
connections between the temporal lobe, where speech is
controlled, and the dopamine reward pathway that elicits
pleasurable feelings, the study found.  They also found weak links between voice regions and parts
of the brain that process emotional information, Abrams said. In
the future, the researchers plan to look at whether there are
certain parts or types of speech that activate an autistic
child’s brain, he said.  The study included 20 children with autism who were
considered high functioning, with language skills and issues
with communication. Their  magnetic resonance imaging  scans were
compared with 19 children without the disorder who had similar
intelligence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  