-- Axa Plans to Invest $13.3 Billion in Infrastructure Debt
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-06-18T08:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/axa-says-it-will-invest-10-billion-euros-in-infrastructure-debt.html
Axa SA (CS) ,  Europe ’s second-largest
insurer, plans to invest 10 billion euros ($13.3 billion) in
infrastructure debt over the next five years as low  interest
rates  push European insurers to seek new investments.  Axa will invest through the real-estate business of its Axa
Investment Managers unit, the Paris-based insurer said today in
a statement. Axa Real Estate will underwrite loans of as much as
500 million euros, it said.  “It meets our need to find long-term investments and
diversify our credit portfolio in order to match the guarantees
we offer clients,” Axa’s chief investment officer, Laurent
Clamagirand, said in the statement.  Axa, like French rival CNP Assurances SA and Zurich-based
Swiss Re Ltd., is shifting new investments toward corporate and
infrastructure debt following Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.
Axa, which had 491 billion euros of invested assets at its
insurance operations at the end of 2012, targeted 40 percent of
new fixed-income investments to corporate bonds, 30 percent to
 government bonds  and 7 percent to loans, it said in February.  Axa rose 1.5 percent to 16.08 euros by 10:24 a.m. in Paris
trading, and has  gained  21 percent this year, reaching a market
value of about 38.5 billion euros.  Investment ‘Pipeline’  “Axa Real Estate has already identified a strong pipeline
of potential investments,” it said in a separate statement.
The unit appointed Charles Dupont to lead a new team working on
infrastructure-lending investments.  The insurer signed an accord this month with Commerzbank AG
to invest in corporate lending in  Germany , Austria and
Switzerland, mirroring partnerships it started in  France  last
year with Societe Generale SA and Credit Agricole SA’s corporate
and investment bank. CNP Assurances, France’s largest life
insurer, said last week that it will invest as much as 2 billion
euros in infrastructure loans over the next three years through
a new partnership with Natixis SA.  Insurers are partly shifting investments toward higher-yielding corporate and infrastructure debt as Europe’s recession
weighs on interest rates. The  European Central Bank  cut its
benchmark rate in May to a record low of 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  