-- Baht, Bonds Decline as Investors Look to Fed for Timing of Curbs
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-06-18T02:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/baht-bonds-decline-as-investors-look-to-fed-for-timing-of-curbs.html
Thailand’s baht and government bonds
dropped for a second day as investors focus on this week’s
 Federal Reserve  meeting for an indication of when it may curb
stimulus that’s driven demand for emerging-market assets.  Global funds have  pulled  a net $1.1 billion from Thai bonds
since May 22, when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said $85 billion
a month of debt purchases could be reduced should there be a
sustained improvement in the U.S. jobs market. The Bank of
Thailand can handle capital outflows given the size of foreign
reserves, Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul told reporters in
Bangkok yesterday. The  holdings  stood at $176.5 billion on June
7, up 2.7 percent from a year earlier, central bank data show.  “The main theme in the market continues to be speculation
about the Fed’s reduction in quantitative easing,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a researcher at the Japan Center for Economic Research
in Tokyo. “Such speculation is leading to capital outflows from
the region as Asia was a big recipient of funds.”  The baht lost 0.2 percent to 30.73 per dollar as of 9:09
a.m. in Bangkok, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It reached
31.19 on June 12, the lowest level since Sept. 7. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange
rate  used to price options, dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 7.09 percent.  The yield on the 3.625 percent government bonds due June
2023 rose one basis point to 3.8 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sovereign notes declined 1.3 percent this
month, less than a 3 percent drop in Indonesia and 1.7 percent
in the Philippines, indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc show.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  begins its two-day policy
meeting today. Investors have been monitoring U.S. economic data
to determine whether growth is strong enough to prompt the Fed
to trim bond purchases.  The Fed Bank of New York’s general economic index climbed
to 7.8 this month, the highest since March, a report showed
yesterday. Readings of greater than zero signal expansion in New
York, northern  New Jersey  and southern Connecticut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  