-- BOE to Reveal U.K. Banks’ Capital Holes in Transparency Test
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-06-19T09:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/boe-to-reveal-individual-bank-capital-holes-in-transparency-test.html
The Bank of England will reveal how
much capital U.K. banks need in the first public test of its
credibility and transparency since it took back the role of
financial regulator.  The central bank will release details on capital needs for
eight lenders including  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  at 7 a.m.
local time tomorrow, a person familiar with the report said.  The central bank, whose Prudential Regulation Authority
unit took over as the U.K.’s banking supervisor from the
Financial Services Authority, outlined potential losses for
banks of 52 billion pounds ($81 billion) in March, demanding
they raise 25 billion pounds of extra capital by the end of 2013
to strengthen their balance sheets.  The Bank of England is “clearly trying to be more
transparent,” Bob Penn, a financial regulation lawyer at Allen
& Overy LLP in London, said in a telephone interview. “The
question is how much confidence the market will have in the
numbers that get published.”  The BOE said in March that possible loan losses could
exceed provisions by 30 billion pounds, while future fines and
conduct-related penalties could be 10 billion pounds more than
banks expect. It said lenders underestimated assets weighted for
risk by 170 billion pounds, leading to a 12 billion-pound
capital shortfall in that category.  Eight Banks  The PRA “will publish details on 20 June setting out the
final conclusions of its capital exercise for all of the eight
major UK banks and building societies,” the central bank said
in an e-mailed statement on June 17. The lenders also include
Standard Chartered Plc, Nationwide Building Society and  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) ’s U.K. unit, according to the person, who requested
anonymity because the details haven’t been made public.  “We would expect that Lloyds and RBS would likely be most
at risk here due to having the highest proportion of U.K.
commercial real estate and Ireland exposures, but there could
also be material deductions for Barclays if a cautious view was
taken on Spain and Italy exposures,” a Morgan Stanley analyst
team led by Huw Van Steenis said in a research note in March.  Capital Estimates  The Morgan Stanley report estimated that Lloyds needed 7
billion pounds,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  needed 9.8
billion pounds and that Barclays has a capital shortfall of 9.1
billion pounds under the central bank’s measures.  Lloyds and RBS said they could meet the requirements
without needing to raise additional equity or sell contingent
convertible securities, known as CoCos, which convert to equity
automatically should capital levels deteriorate to a
predetermined level.  The BOE will seek to avoid comparisons with European Union
stress tests in 2010 and 2011, which were criticized for being
too soft and for failing to reveal weaknesses in the 27-nation
bloc’s banks.  In 2010, the now-defunct Committee of European Banking
Supervisors said that seven EU banks needed only 3.5 billion
euros ($4.7 billion) more capital, a 10th of the lowest analyst
estimate. Nomura Holdings Inc. said European banks would need to
raise 30 billion euros, while Barclays’s investment banking unit
said they’d need as much as 85 billion euros.  ‘World Changed?’  “Some people were asking, ‘have you really made them do
anything? Has the world changed as a result, because the banks
so far haven’t had to raise equity?’”  Sam Woods , a director at
the PRA’s domestic banking division, said in an interview in
London on May 29. “The answer is absolutely yes.”  Barclays and HSBC have also ruled out share sales,
according to two people familiar with their plans who asked not
to be identified because they weren’t permitted to talk
publicly.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  has said it already meets
requirements.  The BOE has a “middle course to pick” between calming
markets and appearing tough on banks’ capital positions, Penn
said.  The BOE has already revealed that the Co-Operative Bank Plc
needs to raise 1.5 billion pounds in common equity capital “in
order to absorb potential losses over coming years,” according
to a statement on the central bank’s website June 17. “We will
hold the Co-Operative to the delivery of its plans.”  The lender, which has abandoned a bid to buy branches from
Lloyds, said it will swap some debt for equity and trade on the
London Stock Exchange to plug the capital hole. The Manchester,
England-based lender’s credit rating was lowered four levels by
Moody’s Investors Service yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  