-- Boeing to Lead Embraer KC-390 Plane Sales Effort to Pentagon
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-18T12:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/boeing-to-lead-embraer-kc-390-plane-sales-effort-to-pentagon.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  is to lead sales of
 Embraer SA (EMBR3) ’s new KC-390 military transport planes in the U.S.,
the world’s largest defense market, and some other countries as
the planemakers expand their partnership on the jet.  Boeing will also be in charge of sales efforts in the U.K.
and some Middle East countries, Luiz Carlos Aguiar, head of
Embraer’s defense business, said today at the Paris Air Show.
The jet will vie for a market of more than 700 planes, he said.  Embraer, based in  Sao Jose dos Campos , Brazil, is
developing the KC-390 jet to compete with other models, such as
the C-130 made by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s largest
defense company. Boeing and Embraer agreed to cooperate on the
Brazilian plane last year with the Chicago-based company
offering expertise generated through programs such as the C-17
military airlifter.  “One of the things we like about this partnership is the
value and the performance the KC-390 can bring,” said Chris Raymond, vice president of business development for Boeing
defense. Boeing would also provide support for Embraer-led sales
efforts, he said.  Embraer expects to book initial KC-390 sales in the first
quarter, with the first flight due before 2015 after completing
its critical design review last month, Aguiar said.  In the U.S. “there will be a need to look at next
generation medium mobility,” Raymond said. Production of the
planes would likely take place in  Brazil , he said.  Any U.S. effort would comply with rules that require most
of the work on a Pentagon program to be done in the U.S., Aguiar
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  