-- BofA Should Face Foreclose Probe by TARP, Waters Says
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-06-18T20:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/bofa-should-face-foreclose-probe-by-tarp-waters-says.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-biggest U.S. lender, should be investigated for its treatment of
distressed homeowners, said Representative Maxine Waters, the
top Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee.  Employees say the lender told them to delay applications to
the Home Affordable Modification Program, or HAMP, to increase
fees and send customers into foreclosure, Waters wrote today in
a letter to the watchdog for the U.S. government’s bailout
program. She cited a June 14 Bloomberg article based on court
documents in making the request.  “Foreclosure is often the most profitable end result for a
servicer that does not own the loan they are servicing,” the
California Democrat wrote to  Christy Romero , the special
inspector general of the Troubled Asset Relief Program. “It
goes without saying that this is an outright abuse of consumers
and government mortgage-assistance programs.”  Bank of America is being sued by homeowners who didn’t
receive permanent HAMP loan modifications after making payments
under trial programs, according to court papers. Statements from
former employees of the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm
were included in a June 7 filing as part of the plaintiffs’
attempt to gain class-action status.  The bank has denied the allegations, saying that it has
completed more HAMP modifications than any other loan servicer,
and that it will address the suit in future court filings.  “These allegations are absurd, patently false and contrary
to Bank of America’s long-standing policy only to foreclose as a
last resort when other available options to help keep people in
their home have been exhausted,”  Jumana Bauwens , a Bank of
America spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail. “Foreclosure is
the worst outcome for the borrower, the servicer and the
investor who owns the loan.”  Waters also sent letters to the  Federal Reserve ’s board of
governors and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The
lender has received $992 million in incentive payments tied to
the HAMP program, she wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  