-- Brazil Protesters Surrounding Congress as Marches Turn Violent
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2013-06-18T00:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/brazil-protesters-surrounding-congress-as-marches-turn-violent.html
Hundreds of demonstrators surrounded
 Brazil ’s Congress and set fire to a car in the streets of Rio de
Janeiro as a wave of nationwide protests rocking Latin America’s
largest economy turned violent for a second straight time.  An estimated 100,000 people marched peacefully through
downtown Rio before a smaller group of activists overturned a
car, set it ablaze and began vandalizing the state assembly. In
Brasilia, a few thousand students were prevented from entering
Congress and instead climbed atop its roof as riot police looked
on. In Sao Paulo, where dozens were wounded when police clashed
with activists on June 13, demonstrations were more peaceful.  The demonstrations, initially to protest an increase in bus
fares, have grown larger and spread across the country in the
past two weeks as discontent about inflation and the economy
mount, fueling dissatisfaction with President Dilma Rousseff.
The president was jeered at a packed soccer stadium over the
weekend while inaugurating the Confederations Cup.  In Brasilia, activists shouted “Leave Dilma” and “Dilma,
what happened to the guerrilla?,” in reference to the
president’s past as a member of the Marxist underground that
battled Brazil’s 1964-1985 military dictatorship.  Rousseff, in a statement tonight, said “peaceful protests
are legitimate and a part of democracy.” Earlier, her
secretary-general, Gilberto Carvalho, said that the government
was concerned about the demonstrations that have been organized
spontaneously over the Internet and lack a single motive.  “These young people have something to tell us,” Carvalho
told journalists earlier in the day following a meeting with
organizers of the march in Brasilia. “The government has to
have the humility to listen and seek to understand this process
so it can react in an adequate manner.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  