-- Brazil’s Flamengo Won’t Make ‘Stupid’ Deal to Return to Maracana
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-18T18:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/brazil-s-flamengo-won-t-make-stupid-deal-to-return-to-maracana.html
Brazil ’s most-popular soccer club
Flamengo won’t be pushed to do anything “stupid” in its
negotiations to return to Rio de Janeiro’s Maracana stadium, a
senior executive said.  Flamengo, which says it has 40 million fans, is in
discussions with the consortium awarded the rights to run the
iconic arena after it was reopened in April following a $500
million, three-year renovation. Flamengo has played in Maracana
since it was built for the 1950 World Cup.  “We’re better off doing it today than tomorrow, but having
said that, I can take this decision in five years’ time,” Luis
Eduardo Baptista, Flamengo’s vice-president for marketing, said
in an interview.  The reconstruction of Maracana, which is currently being
used for  FIFA’s  Confederations Cup and will host next year’s
World Cup final, has proved controversial. Protesters have
complained that the privatization of the facility doesn’t offer
value for money to taxpayers who funded the upgrade, which cost
40 percent more than planned.  Consorcio Maracana, a group led by Brazil’s biggest
construction firm Odebrecht SA, and including billionaire  Eike
Batista ’s sports and entertainment vehicle IMX along with Los
Angeles-based arena operator Anschutz Entertainment Group Inc.,
was awarded a 35-year contract to run the stadium in May. Under
an agreement with Rio’s state government, it will pay 5.5
million reais ($2.7 million) annually for the concession, or
192.5 million reais in total.  First Game  Baptista, who’s also the president of satellite TV operator
Sky Brasil, said new and refurbished facilities being readied
for the World Cup offer Flamengo the chance to play in other
cities than Rio, where the team is based. The club’s first
league game of the new season was played in Brasilia’s new $750
million Mane Garrincha stadium against Santos, which gave up
home field advantage for the occasion. The majority of the crowd
wore Flamengo jerseys.  “I’m pretty sure other  World Cup  stadiums will be
expecting to host Flamengo,” Baptista said. “Flamengo has the
largest set of fans in 18 out of the 27 Brazilian states, so I
think the club would be very well accepted and hosted
everywhere. We would better off to have a home, a stadium to
call ours. But we’re not going to do anything stupid to fulfill
somebody else’s business model.”  Flamengo’s board announced in December that it had debts of
750 million reais, including about 500 million reais in unpaid
taxes. The renovated stadium seats more than 78,000. The
original Maracana hosted almost 200,000 people when Brazil lost
the final game of the 1950 World Cup to Uruguay.  No Agreement
      Flamengo  has held several rounds of discussions with
Consorcio Maracana without coming to an agreement. Baptista said
further talks are planned this week. The soccer team wants a
revenue sharing agreement that will include income from the
prestige and hospitality seats, though it has so far only been
offered a deal where it will be paid a fee per game, he said.  Odebrecht spokeswoman Mariana Scalzo declined to comment
because the negotiations aren’t complete.  “If you are foreseeing a relationship which is like a
marriage for 10 years plus, you expect you share the revenues of
the stadiums,” Baptista said. “We’re not going to accept to be
only paid to play in Maracana.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  