-- Brazilian Currency Touches Four-Year Low, Prompting Intervention
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-06-18T21:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/brazilian-real-pares-decline-after-central-bank-s-intervention.html
Brazil ’s real touched a four-year
low, prompting the central bank to intervene for a second
straight day as a report showed higher-than-forecast inflation.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini said policy makers
are working to reduce the inflationary pressure that may stem
from the currency’s decline. Wholesale, construction and
consumer prices rose 0.74 percent in the 20 days starting May
21, the Getulio Vargas Foundation reported. The median forecast
of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 0.65 percent
increase in the IGP-M index.  The real depreciated 0.5 percent to 2.1815 per U.S. dollar
at close in Sao Paulo. It earlier dropped 0.7 percent to 2.1856,
the weakest intraday level since May 2009. Swap rates on the
contract due in January 2015 surged 37 basis points, or 0.37
percentage point, to 10.19 percent, the highest level on a
closing basis since March 2012.  “If there’s more currency devaluation, there will be more
inflation,”  Jankiel Santos , the chief economist at Banco
Espirito Santo de Investimento in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone
interview. “On top of that, the IGP-M shows that wholesale
prices are under pressure again.”  Brazil is prepared to face the “adverse winds” of a
stronger dollar and has the capacity to make the currency market
function adequately, Tombini told the Senate’s Economic Affairs
Committee in Brasilia today.  Real’s Decline  The real has tumbled 6.7 percent in the past month, the
worst performance among 16 major dollar counterparts, on
speculation that the Federal Reserve will curtail a stimulus
program that has buoyed emerging-market assets.  To boost liquidity, the Treasury offered in its second
unscheduled auction since 2008 to buy back as many as 2 million
fixed-rate NTN-F and LTN government bonds, five days after it
bought back 200,000 NTN-Fs.  The real swung between gains and losses today after the
central bank sold $4.5 billion in foreign-exchange swap
contracts in two auctions today, the sixth day of interventions
in three weeks.  The currency rallied on June 13 after the government
removed a 1 percent tax charged on wagers against the dollar,
the second step taken this month to loosen capital controls. A
week earlier, it eliminated a tax on foreign investors who buy
Brazilian bonds in the domestic market.  The central bank raised its  target lending rate  by 50 basis
points on May 29 to 8 percent  to curb inflation, surprising 38
of 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, who had expected a
second straight increase of 25 basis points. The benchmark was
held at a record low 7.25 percent from October to March to
support growth.  Quickening Inflation  The annual pace of consumer price increases accelerated for
nine straight months through March to 6.59 percent, exceeding
the upper end of the monetary authority’s target range of 2.50
percent to 6.50 percent. The inflation rate eased to 6.49
percent in April and was 6.50 percent in May.  Brazil’s currency has fallen more than 5 percent since Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said on May 22 that the central bank
may taper its stimulus program if the outlook for employment
shows “sustainable improvement.” U.S. policy makers begin a
two-day meeting today.  President Dilma Rousseff, whose government’s approval
rating dropped in June for the first time since she took office,
pledged during an event in Brasilia today to listen to
demonstrators who staged the largest street protests in more
than two decades.  More than 200,000 people, most of them students,
demonstrated in 12 cities throughout Brazil yesterday, venting
discontent over a range of issues from inflation and corruption
to poor hospitals and schools.  Brazil’s gross domestic product expanded 0.9 percent last
year, down from 2.7 percent in 2011 and 7.5 percent in 2010.
Economists in the latest central bank survey forecast expansion
of 2.49 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  