-- Bruins Beat Blackhawks 2-0 for 2-1 Lead in NHL Stanley Cup Final
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-18T04:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/bruins-beat-blackhawks-2-0-for-2-1-lead-in-nhl-stanley-cup-final.html
The  Boston Bruins  got second-period
goals from Daniel Paille and  Patrice Bergeron  to beat the
Chicago Blackhawks 2-0 and take a two-games-to-one lead in the
 National Hockey League ’s Stanley Cup Final.  Bruins goaltender Tuukka Rask made 28 saves for the shutout
at Boston’s TD Garden, preventing the Stanley Cup Final from
having a third straight game go to overtime.  The Bruins will also host Game 4 of the best-of-seven
championship series tomorrow. Boston has won seven straight home
games stretching back to Game 7 of its first-round series
against the  Toronto Maple Leafs , when the Bruins won 5-4 in
overtime after erasing a 4-1 third-period deficit.  After a scoreless first period last night, the Bruins broke
through two minutes, 13 seconds into the second as Paille
collected a loose puck off a turnover and fired a 37-foot wrist
shot over the glove of Blackhawks goalie Corey Crawford.  Bergeron netted Boston’s goal about 12 minutes later and
seconds after the Bruins’ 5-on-3 power play ended.  As Chicago’s  Dave Bolland  skated out of the penalty box,
the Bruins’ Jaromir Jagr sent a pass across the mouth of the
goal to Bergeron, who collected the puck and fired it into the
net off the goalpost.  While the Bruins scored on one of their four power-play
opportunities, the Blackhawks went 0-for-5 with a man advantage
and have failed to score on their past 20 power-play chances.  Chicago’s Marian Hossa, whose 15 postseason points is tied
for the team lead, was scratched from the Blackhawks’ lineup
after being hit by a puck during pre-game warm-ups and suffering
an undisclosed upper body injury. Hossa had three game-winning
goals for the Blackhawks this postseason.  Chicago is now 0-4 in Game 3’s this postseason, while the
Bruins are 4-0 in the third games of their playoff series.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  