-- Can We All Divorce Like Rupert and Wendi Murdoch?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-18T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/can-we-all-divorce-like-rupert-and-wendi-murdoch-.html
How much  will  Rupert Murdoch , the
billionaire chairman of  News Corp ., and Wendi Deng have to pay
for their divorce? A significant sum, no doubt, but chances are
pretty good that they’ll be able to weather the financial storm.  Many divorcing spouses have a tougher time of it. Those
amicable enough to use mediators, collaborative lawyers or even
 do-it-yourself  forms can dissolve their marriages for no more
than a few thousand dollars. But when terms are contested, bills
in the U.S. typically run  $15,000 to $35,000 .  The high costs of figuring out a financial settlement were
emphasized in a  new analysis  by a New York state commission on
divorce policy. Not surprisingly, the commission found that
squabbling over spousal support, in particular, increases the
cost of divorce. Because judges handle awards inconsistently and
unpredictably, divorcing couples are easily frustrated and
discouraged from settling, further driving up legal expenses.  So what can be done? One idea is to establish a consistent
formula for spousal support -- at least for couples in fairly
ordinary financial circumstances.  A few states  have adopted  such
formulas  for the temporary assistance that is often put in place
while a divorce is in progress.  A bill  before the  New York 
Legislature would make the state the first to apply a formula to
post-divorce alimony.  Standardization has helped reform divorce before. Beginning
in the 1980s, all 50 states reduced litigation by creating a
basic structure for child-support payments.  The  formula proposed  in New York ensures that a spouse pays
alimony only if he or she is a much higher earner. It takes into
account the difference between the two spouses’ incomes and
ensures that the payee doesn’t end up earning more (or even as
much as) the payer.  A formula can enable low-income spouses to win awards they
could not have afforded to litigate. It doesn’t work so well,
however, for affluent couples with complicated sources of
income. In such cases, the equation can lead to a payment level
that seems unfair to one of the spouses, who ends up pursuing
even more litigation to seek an exemption from it. For this
reason, it’s worth putting in place caps under which the formula
is applied -- something that has been done with child-support.  Formulas that tie the duration of alimony to the duration
of the marriage -- an approach  Massachusetts  adopted in 2011 --
are worth considering, too.  The New York bill is a smart step that we hope will inspire
other states to adopt standard, predictable alimony
calculations. In all such formulas for divorce, judges need the
authority to deviate in specific cases, according to a list of
factors that vary by state. Having a formula to start with,
though, could help make an uneasy process a little less
expensive.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 