-- Canada Dollar Falls 3rd Day on Tapering Speculation as Fed Meets
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-06-18T21:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/canada-dollar-falls-third-day-on-bets-fed-will-boost-taper-talk.html
The Canadian dollar declined for a
third day versus its U.S. peer amid speculation the  Federal
Reserve  may indicate when it will begin slowing monetary
stimulus in the U.S., the nation’s largest trading partner.  The currency weakened even as futures on crude oil,
Canada’s largest export, rose 0.9 percent to $98.65 per barrel
in  New York  and the Standard & Poor’s  500 Index (SPX)  of U.S. stocks
gained 0.8 percent.  Bank of Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz makes
his first public speech tomorrow in Oakville, Ontario.  “A lot of chop but no real progress, and that will remain
the case until we hear from the Fed,” said Greg T. Moore, a
currency strategist in Toronto at Toronto-Dominion Bank.
Canada’s dollar has gained 1.6 percent this month versus its
U.S. peer, reflecting “the idea that tapering isn’t entirely
imminent and that tapering is not tightening. The Fed is still
in fact buying assets and using its balance sheet.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.3 percent to
C$1.0212 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched a one-month high of C$1.0137 on June 14. One loonie buys 97.92 U.S.
cents.  Canada’s 10-year benchmark  bonds  fell, with yields adding
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.16 percent. The
1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 fell 8 cents to
C$94.13.  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options on the
U.S. dollar-Canadian dollar pair totaled $606 million, or 2.3
percent of $26.1 billion overall, according to data reported by
U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing Corp. and tracked by
Bloomberg. Greenback-loonie options trading was 81 percent less
than the average for the past five Tuesdays at a similar time in
the day.  Poloz’s speech tomorrow follows testimony to lawmakers on
June 6, when he reiterated his predecessor  Mark Carney ’s view
that the central bank’s policy rate will rise as the economy
grows while declining to give “running commentary” on whether
the loonie is overvalued. His remarks will be published on the
Bank of Canada’s website at 12:25 p.m.  Poloz will lead the central bank’s governing council in
making its next interest-rate decision on July 17.  ‘Watered Down’  The official statement from the next meeting “could be
watered down to provide a slightly more dovish tilt than those
under the Carney regime,” UBS AG strategists including Cameron N. Umetsu in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , wrote in a note to clients
today. “One must assume that Poloz would be happy to see a
further retreat in the Canadian dollar from here even if he is
not explicit about it.”  Saying a “strong U.S. dollar theme will gain further
traction going forward,” the bank recommends buying the
greenback if it weakens toward support at C$1.0120 heading into
the Bank of Canada meeting.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will hold a press conference
tomorrow after Federal Open Market Committee policy makers end
their two-day meeting and issue a statement and economic
forecasts. Bernanke said last month the central bank could
reduce its $85 billion monthly bond-purchase program, known as
quantitative easing, if there’s sustainable improvement in
employment.  ‘Hawkish Rhetoric’  “The market is anticipating hawkish rhetoric from the
Fed,”  Dean Popplewell , head analyst at the online currency
trading firm Oanda Corp., said by phone from Toronto. “The
Canadian dollar was overvalued and the market is very much happy
to own U.S. dollars and play the percentages.”  The one-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate fell to
1.47. Risk reversals measure the premium on options contracts to
sell Canadian dollars versus buying U.S. contracts that do the
opposite.  Canada ’s currency has lost less than those of its fellow
commodity exporters in the past month among a basket of 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Index. The loonie dropped 1.8 percent, compared with
the New Zealand dollar’s 3.5 percent loss and the Australian
dollar’s 5.3 percent fall. The greenback declined 2.5 percent
and the yen gained 6.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  