-- Capital One Hires U.S. Immigration Chief to Oversee Compliance
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-06-18T00:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/capital-one-hires-u-s-immigration-chief-to-oversee-compliance.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , the
bank that agreed to pay $210 million to settle U.S. charges of
deceptive marketing of credit-card products, hired the nation’s
top immigration official to head compliance operations.  John Morton , director of U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, will join the McLean, Virginia-based lender in
August as a senior vice president,  Tatiana Stead , a company
spokeswoman, said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Compliance is a high priority for our company and we
couldn’t be more pleased that he will be joining our team,”
Stead said.  Regulators are pressing banks to improve their defenses
against money-laundering and other types of fraud. Last year, in
the first public enforcement case brought by the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, Capital One agreed to settle
charges that third-party vendors engaged in deceptive marketing
of credit-card “add-on” products such as payment protection
and credit monitoring.  “John has strengthened ICE’s investigative efforts, with a
particular emphasis on border crimes, export controls,
intellectual property enforcement and child exploitation,”
Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  said in a separate
statement.  Before joining ICE, Morton spent 15 years at the Justice
Department, serving in multiple positions including assistant
U.S. attorney and acting deputy assistant attorney general of
the criminal division, according to Napolitano’s statement.  Dow Jones Newswires reported on Morton’s new job earlier
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  