-- Carbon Capture ‘Vital’ to Meet Climate Goals, Shell Adviser Says
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-06-18T12:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/carbon-capture-vital-to-meet-climate-goals-shell-adviser-says.html
Carbon capture and storage, a way of
cutting emissions from industry by burying them underground,
needs more state support for the European Union to meet clean-energy goals, a  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  adviser said.  “We’ve got to be clear that the EU’s climate goals in the
long run cannot be met without clear policy intervention and
that CCS is vital for the delivery of that,” Graeme Sweeney,
who advises Shell on carbon-dioxide strategy, said by telephone.  The EU is debating  energy policy  for the next decade as
power utilities and industry seek clearer legislation to commit
investments. While CCS may provide a cost-effective way to cut
CO2, projects in the bloc have stalled as debt-strapped nations
struggle to fund construction. At stake is a binding EU target
to cut  greenhouse gases  20 percent from 1990 levels by 2020.  “We’ve made limited progress,” Sweeney said. “It’s time
for us all to recognize that we really need a reset if we’re
going to make all of this work.”  The first phase of a European Commission program to finance
as many as 12 demonstration plants failed to fund a single one
as  member states  were unable to supply the required matching
funds by the deadline. Nine projects applied for funding under a
second round that closes July 3, the commission’s  website  shows.  Sweeney sees a possible three to five demonstration
projects being built in the EU, putting it on course to start
commercial CCS plants in the late 2020s or early 2030s. He’s
also chairman of the European Technology Platform for Zero-Emission Fossil-Fuel Power Plants, or  ZEP .  Peterhead Project  The ZEP group includes Shell, which plans a CCS project in
 Scotland  with SSE Plc. The partners, chosen as preferred bidders
in a U.K. funding competition in March, intend to trap 90
percent of emissions from the Peterhead power station in what
would be the world’s first commercial CCS demonstration at a
gas-fired plant.  Efforts to develop CCS also have been set back by an
oversupply of carbon permits on the EU market, which pushed down
prices for the allowances to an all-time low in April, weakening
the incentive to invest in cutting emissions.  EU leaders must agree on a plan to reduce the surplus,
Sweeney said. He also called for an innovation fund to finance
projects and a certificate-based incentive system to pay for CCS
plants as they operate. Projects could also get unspent money
from the European Energy Program for Recovery, a fund set up in
2009 to boost reliability of supply and cut emissions, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  