-- Carney’s COO Choice Makes Hogg BOE’s Top Female Employee
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2013-06-18T14:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/carney-appoints-santander-s-hogg-as-boe-chief-operating-officer.html
Bank of  England  Governor-designate
Mark Carney appointed Charlotte Hogg as chief operating officer
and the central bank’s most senior female employee, in a move
reshaping the institution even before he begins work on July 1.  Hogg, head of retail distribution and intermediaries
executive at  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ’s British business, will lead
daily management of BOE functions including human resources,
finance, property, information technology and security,
according to an e-mailed statement from the London-based BOE.
The 42-year-old began her career at the central bank in 1992.  The COO position is a new role at the level of deputy
governor and was created to assist the governor in managing the
Bank of England, which has now expanded to encompass parts of
the former Financial Services Authority. The appointment marks a
further change in the BOE’s leadership as Carney replaces Mervyn King and Deputy Governor Paul Tucker prepares to exit this year.  “My tenure at the bank will oversee a significant
transition,” Carney said. “ Charlotte  brings an outstanding
track record and breadth of experience that will help to
catalyze that change and I look forward to working closely with
her to realize the full potential of the new institutional
structure of the bank.”  Job Search  Hogg will begin work on July 1, the same day as Carney, and
one of her first tasks will be to help appoint a finance
director. The central bank advertised for that position, which
reports to the COO, in the Sunday Times on June 16.  The Bank of England hasn’t had a woman on its rate-setting
panel since Kate Barker left in 2010. Most of its top managers
are men. Among other high-ranking female managers are Human
Resources Executive Director Catherine Brown, Gill Hammond,
director of the bank’s Centre for Central Banking Studies, and
Victoria Saporta, in charge of prudential policy.  King already sought to redress the gender balance last year
with the appointment of Lea Paterson, a former economics editor
at the Times newspaper, to be the most senior female monetary
policy official. She took charge of the division which produces
the bank’s quarterly report for economic forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  