-- Chiasson, Newman to Remain Free During Appeal, Court Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-06-18T18:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/chiasson-newman-to-remain-free-during-appeal-court-says.html
Level Global Investors LP co-founder
Anthony Chiasson and former Diamondback Capital Management LLC
portfolio manager  Todd Newman , sentenced to prison for insider
trading, can remain free while they fight their convictions, an
appeals court ruled.  Chiasson, of  Manhattan , was sentenced last month to serve
6 1/2 years in prison, while Newman, of Needham,  Massachusetts ,
was sentenced to 4 1/2 years after both were convicted by a
federal jury in Manhattan for being part of a $72 million
insider-trading scheme.  Lawyers for both men today told a federal appeals court in
New York that their clients should remain free because there is
a “substantial question” of law to be decided in the
case. Both fund managers said U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan, who presided over their case, issued a ruling during
the trial that made it easier for the government to prove
culpability for  insider trading .  The defense lawyers argued that two other federal judges in
Manhattan have ruled differently than Sullivan in securities
fraud cases, concluding that the recipient of a tip isn’t liable
for insider trading unless he knew the person who provided the
illegal information did so for a personal benefit.  ‘Fairly Debatable’  “The fact that well-informed judges can and have disagreed
confirms that the issue is the very paradigm of ‘fairly
debatable,’” Stephen Fishbein and John Nathanson, lawyers for
Newman, said in a motion filed with the appeals court.  “If this court accepts Mr. Newman’s legal argument that
knowledge of personal benefit is required, he is likely to win a
reversal of his conviction,” they said.  Sullivan had denied requests by both men to remain free
pending appeal. Sullivan ordered Newman to surrender to the U.S.
Bureau of Prison by July 8 and Chiasson to begin serving his
term by Aug. 13.  Prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said Sullivan didn’t make an error and both portfolio
managers should begin serving their terms.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 1:12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  