-- Chicago Man Pleads Not Guilty in North Korea Weapons Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-06-18T18:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/chicago-man-pleads-not-guilty-in-north-korea-weapons-case.html
A suburban  Chicago  man pleaded not
guilty to charges he and his father conspired to evade federal
regulations blocking access to the U.S. financial system by
people seeking to spread weapons of mass destruction.  Yueh-Hsun “Gary” Tsai of Glenview, Illinois, entered his
plea today before U.S. District Judge Charles R. Norgle in
Chicago. He and his father, Hsien Tai Tsai, also known as Alex,
were indicted by a federal grand jury earlier this month.  The U.S. has linked the elder Tsai to “the supply of
weapons machinery to North Korea,” acting Chicago U.S. Attorney
Gary S. Shapiro said in a May 6 statement announcing the arrest
of both men.  Alex Tsai of  Taiwan , whose access to the U.S. banking
system was blocked by the Treasury Department in January 2009,
was arrested May 1 in Estonia and is awaiting extradition.  Gary Tsai’s plea was entered for him by defense attorney
 Theodore Poulos .  U.S. Magistrate Judge Susan Cox last month conditioned his
release upon the posting of a $500,000 bond backed by the
Glenview home he shares with his wife and about $90,000 to be
deposited with the court. Today, Norgle left those requirements
in place.  Forged Invoices  Alex Tsai and one of his Taiwanese businesses, Trans Merits
Co., were convicted in that country of forging invoices and
shipping restricted materials to North Korea, Eric Shiffman, a
special agent with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, said in
an affidavit for a complaint filed against the older Tsai.  The U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets
Control designated the father, Trans Merits and another company,
Global Interface Co., as “proliferators of weapons of mass
destruction.” A U.S. citizen, business, or person or or company
in the country are barred from doing business with Alex Tsai,
Trans Merits or Global, according to Shiffman’s affidavit.  Gary Tsai is accused of aiding his father or one of his
businesses to acquire a center-hole grinder in September 2009.
The device is described in the indictment as a “a precision
machine tool used to grind a center hole with precisely smooth
sides.”  Poulos last month described the metal drilling machine as
an old and unsophisticated piece of equipment and the business
transaction “benign.”  The men are charged with six counts of violating the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act, each of which
carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $1 million
fine, the government has said, with conspiracy to commit that
crime, with conspiracy to defraud the U.S., which is punishable
by as long as five years imprisonment and two counts of money
laundering, each punishable by a prison sentence of as long as
20 years.  The case is U.S. v. Tsai, 12-cr-00829, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  