-- Chile Cost Surge Eroding Mine Competitiveness, Antofagasta Says
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2013-06-18T17:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/chile-cost-surge-eroding-mine-competitiveness-antofagasta-says.html
Chile’s copper mining industry, the
world’s largest, is losing competitiveness as costs surge on
falling ore quality and rising energy and labor costs, said
 Diego Hernandez , who heads  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO) ’s mining division.  Costs are approaching the same levels as the mining
industries of  Australia ,  Canada  and the U.S., Hernandez said
today at the Exponor mining trade fair in Antofagasta, Chile.  Mining companies may have delayed or suspended more than a
third of the $100 billion pipeline of projects that the
government estimates will go ahead over the coming decade,
Codelco Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Keller  said today at the
same event. As a result, Chile is losing its attractiveness as a
destination for mining investments, Hernandez said.  “We are going into a different stage,” Hernandez said.
“In the high cycle of copper prices, the emphasis was on
raising output, and now we have to look after costs and profit.
If we don’t do that, we will become increasingly less
competitive.”  Chile ’s energy costs have tripled since 2000 and there are
“no significant projects in the pipeline” to ease a growing
power shortage, he said. The average cost of doing business in
Chile has risen 46 percent since 2007, compared with an average
of 25 percent in other mining countries, Hernandez said.  Chile will still account for about 37 percent of world
copper output by 2020, compared with about a third now,
Hernandez said. Peru will account for 16 percent of world output
by the same year, he said.  The average copper content contained in ore has fallen
below 1 percent in the last five years and is declining faster
than in other mining countries, Codelco’s Keller said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  