-- China Says Trade Figures Inflated by Arbitrage With Hong Kong
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-18T10:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/china-says-trade-figures-inflated-by-arbitrage-with-hong-kong.html
  China  said data on trade with  Hong
Kong  were inflated by arbitrage transactions that skirted rules,
the government’s most explicit acknowledgment that  export  and
import figures this year were overstated.  The transactions “resulted in abnormal growth in mainland-Hong Kong trade for a few months” since the fourth quarter,
Shen Danyang, a Commerce Ministry spokesman, said at a monthly
briefing today in Beijing. “Even if these arbitrage trades are
not necessarily illegal, they are not fully compliant with
regulations. That’s why the government has been concerned about
this.”  Trade growth slowed “sharply” in May due to curbs on
China-Hong Kong transactions that were exchanges of money rather
than true trade, Shen said, building on a June 8 customs
administration statement that attributed the slowdown in part to
a crackdown on arbitrage deals. Weakness in trade may test
Premier  Li Keqiang ’s reluctance to add stimulus to support
expansion in the world’s second-biggest economy.  The May data reflected “the current grim and complicated
foreign trade situation,” Shen said.  Shen didn’t elaborate on the arbitrage transactions or how
much they inflated trade figures. Lu Ting, head of Greater China
economics at Bank of America Corp. in Hong Kong, said in a
report last month that ruses may have included exports and
imports that enabled money flows for people engaged in arbitrage
between the onshore and offshore exchange rates for the  yuan .  Ideal Channels  Lu speculated that shipments of gold in and out of Hong
Kong have been for this purpose, since valuable goods with low
transportation costs are “ideal channels” for hot money flows,
according to the report.  May exports rose 1 percent from a year earlier, down from
14.7 percent in April, while  imports  dropped 0.3 percent from a
year earlier. The median estimates of analysts were for 7.4
percent export growth and 6.6 percent import gains.  “The economic fundamentals for arbitrage trade are
shifting as expectations for the yuan to depreciate start to
emerge,” said  Ken Peng , a BNP Paribas SA economist in Beijing.
“Even without trade curbs, the motivations for bringing hot
money into China are limited.”  Economists in a survey last month said January-April export
growth was overstated by 4 to 13 percentage points. Shipments
abroad probably rose 8.5 percent in the first four months of
2013 from a year earlier, based on the median estimate of 15
economists, less than half the official 17.4 percent number.
Imports may have gained 8.25 percent, according to 14 analysts’
median estimate, compared with the government’s 10.6 percent
figure.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  