-- China to Resume IPOs When New Rules Take Effect, Official Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-18T11:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/china-to-resume-ipos-when-new-rules-take-effect-official-says.html
China  will allow initial public
offerings only after new rules aimed at boosting protection for
investors go into effect, a China Securities Regulatory
Commission official with knowledge of the matter said.  Companies that have already been cleared by the regulator
in a listing hearing will be allowed to proceed with their share
sales if they fulfill the  new requirements , said the official,
who asked not to be identified because he wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly about the matter. The regulator is seeking public
feedback on the new rules until June 21.  Chairman Xiao Gang, who took the helm at the regulator in
March, is extending predecessor  Guo Shuqing ’s measures to combat
fraud in  capital markets  by cracking down on brokerages that
fail to properly review clients’ filings. The CSRC has also been
auditing offer documents since December after initially stopping
IPO approvals in October as the benchmark stock fell more than 5
percent in the first nine months of 2012.  The number of Chinese companies seeking to sell shares in
IPOs had climbed to more than 800 in December, according to data
from the CSRC. About 80 of those companies had cleared the
listing hearing as of June 7, according to the regulator.  The CSRC will probably resume approving IPOs at the end of
July, Reuters reported earlier today, citing unidentified
sources present at an industry meeting with the regulator.  IPO Rules  The securities regulator plans to restrict companies and
their major stakeholders from selling stock below the initial
public offering price for two years after the lock-up period
ends, according to the proposed rules posted on the CSRC’s
website earlier this month. Issuers may also be required to
prepare and disclose plans to stabilize share prices that fall
below the net asset values within five years of their trading
debut, according to the draft rules.  IPO underwriters may also face greater scrutiny under the
new rules. If a company reports a net loss or a profit drop of
more than 50 percent in the same year as its IPO, the securities
regulator will stop reviewing any applications submitted by the
investment bank that advised it for an unspecified period of
time, according to the draft rules.  The securities watchdog has stepped up enforcement of
regulations since Xiao took office in March by rebuking or
punishing at least three brokerages for inadequate due diligence
on IPOs. It fined Ping An Securities Co. and barred the firm
from underwriting operations for three months, while Minsheng
Securities Co. was given a warning and fined. Nanjing Securities
Co. was censured, and bankers at all three firms were barred
from the securities industry for life last month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  