-- China Mengniu Climbs Most in a Month on Yashili Offer
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-19T09:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/china-mengniu-said-close-to-buying-more-than-51-of-yashili.html
     June 19（Bloomberg) --  China Mengniu Dairy Co. (2319)  rose the
most in a month in Hong Kong trading after the country’s largest
dairy producer offered HK$12.5 billion ($1.6 billion) to buy a
local infant-formula maker.  Mengniu rose 6.9 percent to close at HK$28.70, the biggest
gain since May 20.  Yashili International Holdings Ltd. (1230) , the
acquisition target, gained 3 percent while the city’s benchmark
 Hang Seng Index  fell 1.1 percent. The two companies resumed
trading today after the shares were halted since June 13.  Mengniu agreed to buy 75 percent of Yashili from Chairman
Zhang Lidian’s family and  Carlyle Group , it said in a statement
yesterday. It will also offer to buy the rest of the company for
HK$3.50 a share in cash, or about 5 percent more than Yashili’s
June 13 closing price.  Yashili should lift Mengniu’s 2014 earnings per share by 7
percent to 17 percent as it will help “rapid expansion into the
fast-growing milk powder segment,” Kevin Yin, a Credit Suisse
analyst, said in a note to clients today. He maintains an
outperform, or buy,  rating  on Mengniu.  The investment will help Mengniu build a bigger presence in
 China ’s baby-formula market, which is projected to expand more
than 70 percent to 133.5 billion yuan ($21.8 billion) by 2015,
according to Euromonitor International. The Hohhot, Inner
Mongolia-based company is making its third deal in two months
after scandals including contaminated milk powder and rat meat
sold as mutton fueled demand for safer products and pushed the
government to tighten regulations.  “The government is trying to consolidate the industry by
backing Mengniu to take control of smaller ones so it can better
monitor both upstream and downstream food quality,” Todd Yang,
an analyst at Guosen Securities Co., said by phone.  Milk Source  China will push to ensure the safety of baby  milk products 
and draft policies to support deals among producers, the State
Council said this month. COFCO, the state-backed agricultural
and food industry supplier, owns 19 percent of Mengniu,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yashili sources all its milk from  New Zealand  and is
building a plant there, according to its annual report. It has
1,500 regional distributors across China for its milk powder, it
said.  Mengniu listed Yashili’s “high brand recognition, imported
premium dairy raw materials and a proprietary formula” among
reasons for the acquisition.  Mengniu was among 22 dairy companies found to have sold
products containing the chemical melamine in 2008, when tainted
powder killed at least six infants in China. Moldy cattle feed
led to excessive toxin levels in its milk, Mengniu said in 2011.
Since then, the company has run marketing campaigns emphasizing
product quality to draw consumers back.  Danone Stake  Shareholders will have the option of selling for HK$3.50 in
cash or a combination HK$2.82 in cash and 0.681 share in a
private company set up by Mengniu. Yashili went public in 2010
at HK$4.20 a share.  Mengniu bought a stake last month in  China Modern Dairy
Holdings Ltd. (1117) , the country’s largest raw-milk producer, to get
greater control of milk supplies.  Danone (BN) , owner of Activia
yogurt and Evian water, said last month it will spend about 325
million euros ($435 million) to form a joint venture with
Mengniu for yogurt products in China.  The Paris-based company will also have an initial indirect
interest of about 4 percent in Mengniu, with the aim of
increasing that in the future. The Chinese company formed a
strategic partnership with Danish dairy firm Arla Foods in 2012
to improve quality inspection techniques and explore further co-operation.  Yashily, Scient  Founded in 1983, Yashili is about 52 percent owned by
Chairman Zhangand his brothers, and 24 percent by Carlyle. The
company reported a profit of 468.5 million yuan in 2012, an
increase of 53 percent. Its baby-formula brands include Yashily
and Scient.  Glenview, Illinois-based  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN)  had a
14 percent share in the Chinese milk formula market last year.
 Hangzhou Beingmate Group Co.  was second with a 10 percent share
followed by Danone’s 9.2 percent and 7.8 percent by Inner
Mongolia Yili Industrial Group.  Yashili ranked seventh with a 4.7 percent share while
Mengniu ranked 23rd with 0.2 percent.  “Mengniu and Yashili is the first milestone case under the
government’s new push to consolidate China’s infant milk formula
industry,” Sun Yiping, Mengniu’s chief executive officer, said
on an investor call.  Consumer Distrust  Mengniu sells liquid milk products including UHT milk and
yogurt under its namesake brand in China. It also produces ice
cream and other dairy products such as cheese and milk powder.
The company has the biggest share in China’s drinking milk
market, with about 34 percent in 2012, according to Euromonitor
International.  China plans to consolidate its milk powder industry and
targets creating 10 large companies within two years, each with
annual revenue of more than 2 billion  yuan , China National Radio
reported, citing Gao Fu, an official at the Ministry of Industry
and Information.  Chinese consumers’ distrust of local milk has been driving
domestic companies to look overseas. Inner Mongolia Yili
Industrial Group said in December it plans to invest NZ$214
million ($171 million) in a baby-formula project in New Zealand.  UBS AG is the lead financial adviser, while HSBC Holdings
Plc and Standard Chartered Plc. are joint financial advisers to
Mengniu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  