-- China Insiders Sell Most Shares in May in 4 Years, UBS Says
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-06-18T06:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/china-insiders-sell-most-shares-in-may-in-four-years-ubs-says.html
Major shareholders, senior
management and individuals with stakes of more than 5 percent
sold a net 24.7 billion  yuan  ($4 billion) of  Chinese A shares  in
May, the most for a month since June 2009, UBS AG said.  The biggest sales were in computer-related shares, media
and “special equipment” sectors, UBS strategists including Qin
Xia wrote in a report dated today. Net stakes rose only in
chemical raw materials and telecom operations, while the sell-off in smaller companies as a percentage of the free-float
reached new post-2008 highs, they wrote.  Insiders sold as the Shanghai Composite Index climbed 5.6
percent in May, the biggest advance since December, and as more
locked-up shares became tradable. The benchmark index has
slumped 6.5 percent in June as data from exports to industrial
production pointed to slowing growth and higher money-market
rates signaled tighter liquidity.  “Substantial shareholders are having an increasingly
important impact on share prices,” the analysts wrote. “The
purchase or sell-down of stocks of a particular listed company
reflects the genuine views of its substantial shareholders on
its pricing, and also constitutes a major leading indicator for
its market performance.”  World’s Worst  The Shanghai Composite added 0.3 percent at 2,155.90 at
2:30 p.m. local time, after touching its lowest level in almost
six months last week. The index has lost 25 percent in the past
four years, the most among the world’s 10 biggest stock markets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The MSCI All-Country
World Index has rallied 34 percent in that time.  The Shanghai gauge  trades  at 11.7 times reported earnings,
compared with an average of 16.6 over the past five years. The
 ChiNext index  of smaller, Shenzhen-listed companies is little
changed this month after surging 21 percent in May.  Confidence is fading in an economic rebound for  China  this
quarter, with investment banks from Morgan Stanley to Barclays
Plc cutting their 2013 expansion forecasts. The economy grew 7.7
percent in the first quarter, less than the 8 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  At the same time, slowing inflows are spurring the nation’s
worst cash crunch in at least seven years. A measure of capital
inflows fell to a six-month low in May, aggravated by a
government crackdown on hot money, a worsening growth outlook
and signs the  Federal Reserve  plans to rein in the supply of
dollars.  “We believe the market is subject to medium-term downside
risks if destocking continues, domestic investment growth
decelerates, and there is a lack of initiatives on the policy
front,” the UBS analysts wrote.  -- Editors: Richard Frost, Darren Boey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  