-- China Foreign-Investment Gains Ease as Economic Slowdown Deepens
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-18T02:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/china-foreign-investment-gains-ease-as-economic-slowdown-deepens.html
Foreign direct investment  in  China 
rose in May by the least in four months, a sign of concern that
growth is slowing in the world’s second-biggest economy.  Inbound non-financial investment increased 0.3 percent from
a year earlier to $9.26 billion, the  Ministry of Commerce  said
today in a statement in Beijing, after a 0.4 percent gain in
April. China’s outbound investment rose 20 percent in the first
five months of the year to $34.3 billion, compared with a 27.4
percent pace in January-April.  The report follows data indicating capital inflows slowed
last month while growth decelerated in exports,  industrial
production  and lending. Confidence is fading in an economic
rebound this quarter, with investment banks from Morgan Stanley
to Barclays Plc cutting their 2013 expansion forecasts.  “Growth in developed markets is picking up while China’s
growth is slowing down, and China is no longer an ideal place
for low-value-added manufacturing,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior
economist and strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong ,
said before the release.  South Korea-based  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
largest smartphone maker, may boost investment by $1 billion in
 Vietnam ’s Bac Ninh province, the state-run Dau Tu newspaper
reported last week.  The Chinese government is trying to streamline regulatory
procedures for foreign investors to boost inflows as Premier  Li Keqiang  seeks to pare the government’s role in the economy.
Huang Feng, deputy director of the Commerce Ministry’s FDI
department, said June 4 that the ministry’s examinations of
projects fell to about 100 in 2012 from more than 3,000 in 2005.  NDRC Projections  The  National Development and Reform Commission , China’s top
economic-planning agency, said March 5 that foreign direct
investment may rise about 1.2 percent to $113 billion this year.
Outbound  investment  was projected to increase 15 percent to
$88.7 billion, the agency said in its annual report to the
legislature.  Foreign-invested enterprises contributed half of the
country’s exports and imports in 2012, a quarter of industrial
output and a fifth of tax revenues, according to data from the
Ministry of Commerce.  Data earlier this month showed export growth slumped to a
10-month low in May and imports unexpectedly fell, while new
local-currency lending and industrial production trailed
estimates.  Yuan  positions at local financial institutions accumulated
from sales of foreign exchange, an indication of capital inflows,
rose in May by the least since November, central bank data
showed last week.  --Zhou Xin, with assistance from Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing.
Editors: Scott Lanman, Sunil Jagtiani  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  