-- China Home-Price Gains Add to Dilemma on Cash Crunch: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-18T04:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/china-may-home-prices-rise-as-major-cities-post-record-gains-1-.html
Chinese property prices rose at the
fastest pace in more than two years in major cities, defying
tougher government curbs and constraining the ability of policy
makers to ease credit in response to weakening economic growth.  New home prices in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou posted
the biggest gains in May since at least January 2011, and 69 of
the 70 cities tracked by the government showed increases, the
most since August 2011, National Bureau of Statistics data
showed today in Beijing. Inbound non-financial  investment  rose
0.3 percent in May from a year earlier, the weakest in four
months, according to the Ministry of Commerce.  The property gains limit the ability of Premier  Li Keqiang 
to counter an economic  slowdown  that showed signs of deepening
in May. The central bank today refrained from adding cash to the
financial system and money-market rates reached the highest
level in seven years this month, a liquidity squeeze that  Fitch
Ratings  says may accelerate a banking crisis.  “The government is in a dilemma right now,” said Zhang Zhiwei, Hong Kong-based chief  China  economist at Nomura Holdings
Inc., who previously worked at the  International Monetary Fund .
“It’s difficult for China to tighten the property market, while
it also needs to bolster the economy, which has a strong
reliance on property.”  China’s one-year  interest-rate swaps  rose to a 21-month
high today. The  yuan  weakened 0.1 percent, the most since June 6,
to 6.1291 per dollar, as of 11:25 a.m. in Shanghai. The MSCI
 Asia  Pacific Index of stocks fell 0.5 percent.  Property Tax  The government in March stepped up a three-year campaign to
cool home prices, with Beijing issuing the toughest measures
among 35 provincial cities. The country will widen property tax
trials, which have only been introduced in Shanghai and
Chongqing, the State Council said in a May 24 statement.  Local governments are reluctant to enforce policies aimed
at cooling the housing market, Zhang said. Former Premier  Wen Jiabao  in March ordered central bank branches to raise down-payment requirements for second mortgages in cities with
excessive cost gains and told local governments with the biggest
price pressures to tighten home-purchase limits and set price-control targets.  Today’s data showed the southern city of Guangzhou posted
the biggest gain with prices rising 15 percent from a year
earlier. Beijing prices climbed 12 percent, while they advanced
10 percent in Shanghai. All three cities had their biggest
advance since the government changed its methodology for the
data in January 2011.  Wenzhou Drop  The only decline in new  home prices  last month was in the
eastern city of Wenzhou, where they fell 3.6 percent from a year
earlier, according to the data.  Home prices in China had the biggest quarterly gain among
55 countries globally in the first three months of the year,
based on Beijing and Shanghai prices, broker Knight Frank LLP
said in an e-mailed report yesterday.  A slowdown in capital inflows has contributed to cash
shortages in China’s money market. Fund flows have declined
amid a government crackdown on hot money, an economic slowdown
and speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will rein in policies
that have boosted the supply of dollars.  Agricultural  Development Bank  of China Co. scaled back the
size of two bond offerings today by 31 percent after the  Finance
Ministry  failed to sell all of the debt offered at an auction
for the first time in 23 months last week.  Emerging Issues  “We are starting to see some issues emerging” in liquidity,
Charlene Chu, Fitch’s head of China financial institutions, said
in an interview today with Zeb Eckert on Bloomberg Television in
 Hong Kong . “It will be very important over the next month or so
to see how that plays out. If that doesn’t go away, some of this
may be moving ahead faster and earlier than we thought.”  Inbound non-financial investment increased to $9.26 billion,
the  Ministry of Commerce  said today in Beijing, after a 0.4
percent gain in April. China’s outbound investment rose 20
percent in the first five months of the year to $34.3 billion,
compared with a 27.4 percent pace in January-April.  The investment report follows data indicating capital
inflows slowed last month while growth decelerated in exports,
 industrial production  and lending. Confidence is fading in an
economic rebound this quarter, with investment banks from Morgan
Stanley to Barclays Plc cutting their 2013 expansion forecasts.  Shen Danyang, a Commerce Ministry spokesman, said at a
briefing today that China’s economic situation is stable while
the trade situation is “grim” for this year. The economy grew
7.7 percent in the first quarter, less than the 8 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Bubble Risk  China’s  property market  faces the risk of a “bubble,” and
it isn’t “light,” Wang Shi, chairman of China Vanke Co., the
nation’s biggest developer, said at a conference in Shanghai on
June 6.  “We expect property prices to start stabilizing by the end
of the year as it takes time for the market to adjust to
policies,” said Jenny Huang, an analyst at SinoPac Financial
Holdings Co. in Taipei, who follows  China’s economy . “This is
not a good time for the government to implement additional
measures as economic indicators still point to a weak economy.
Growth is still the bigger problem.”  Elsewhere in Asia, South Korean  producer prices  fell for an
eighth month as raw materials including crude oil declined. Hong
Kong’s unemployment rate probably held at 3.5 percent in May,
based on the median estimate of economists ahead of a report due
today.  In  Europe , German investor confidence probably rose in June,
while inflation in the U.K. may have quickened in May, according
to Bloomberg surveys.  Turkey ’s central bank will keep its three
 interest rates  unchanged for the first time in 10 months,
economists forecast ahead of a decision due today.  Inflation in the U.S. probably quickened in May from the
previous month, while housing starts may have increased, surveys
showed.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai  at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman at   slanman@bloomberg.net  