-- China Test Markets May Help Set Emission Cuts, GreenStream Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-06-18T15:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/china-test-markets-may-help-set-emission-cuts-greenstream-says.html
Karl Upston-Hooper, general counsel
at  GreenStream Network Plc  in Helsinki, comments on  emissions
trading  in  China , including the nation’s seven test carbon
markets and offsetting program called China Certified Emission
Reductions, or CCERs. He spoke by phone on June 14. China
started today its first test carbon market in Shenzhen.  On how China will use its test markets to help determine a
trajectory for its own emissions output after 2020:  China negotiators will travel to a key United Nations
climate conference in Paris near the end of 2015 “knowing what
they can achieve. Environmental problems are a potential
disruption to social harmony. The government knows it.”  On whether China is genuinely embracing carbon markets:  “I don’t think it’s a sham or a facade. I’ve got a very
positive impression of Shenzhen’s program.” The test programs
“are not going to burst into life as a liquid, functioning
market.”  On China’s preference for spot trading:  “The problem with having a  spot market  is you have no
long-term price signals. I can’t lock in the price of carbon. In
the EU, I can hedge.”  On challenges:  China will face setbacks as it sets up a system that links
its programs, transitions to a national market and allows
outside traders to participate, Upston-Hooper said.  On trading:  GreenStream expects it may after about 2015 be able to sell
some of the 3 million metric tons of CCERs it’s already arranged
to buy to emitters including in Shenzhen, Upston-Hooper said.
CCERs will become “a currency that links the pilots. We’re a
firm believer there will be in due course a functioning carbon
market in China.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  