-- China Carbon Permits Trade 22% Below Europe on Market Debut
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-06-18T16:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/china-carbon-permits-trade-22-below-europe-s-on-market-debut.html
China  traded its first carbon
dioxide permits for 22% less than today’s price in Europe as
the nation inaugurated the Shenzhen Emissions Exchange.  The permits were priced from 28 yuan to 30 yuan ($4.90) a
metric ton, according to Chen Hai’ou, chief executive officer
and president of the exchange. That compares with 4.70 euros a
ton ($6.30) today for European Union permits on  London ’s ICE
Futures Europe exchange, the world’s biggest carbon market by
traded volume.  Shenzhen, the first of seven test markets to start in the
world’s most populous nation, is one of China’s Special Economic
Zones designed to promote market policies. Its new cap-and-trade
program will initially include 635 companies as part of China's
plan to limit heat-trapping gases linked to climate change. The
Shenzhen exchange traded 21,112 tons of carbon in eight 
transactions valued at 613,236  yuan , according to a video
presentation at today’s opening ceremony.  “The meager volume and pre-approved price level of today’s
trades is likely to characterize the initial stages of all of
China’s seven ETS pilots,” said Richard Chatterton, a London-based analyst for New Energy Finance.  China had planned to start all seven pilot programs this
year, with Shenzhen’s market followed by Beijing, Shanghai,
Guangdong, Tianjin, Chongqing and Hubei. Some of the markets may
start in 2014, Xie Zhenhua, vice president of the National
Development and Reform Commission, said at today’s ceremony in
Shenzhen. He didn’t disclose which exchanges were behind their
original schedule.  Buying Permits  The new markets are set to regulate 800 million to 1
billion tons of emissions by 2015 in the world’s biggest cap-and-trade program after Europe’s, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  PetroChina Co., China’s biggest oil producer, and Hanergy
Holding Group Ltd., a renewable-energy company, each bought
10,000 allowances today from Shenzhen Energy Group, according to
the video presentation. PetroChina paid 28 yuan for its permits,
while Hanergy paid 30 yuan, according to the presentation.  Shenzhen City Bao’an Water Services Co. and five
individuals also bought permits. The names of the individuals
weren’t disclosed.  Shanghai ’s carbon exchange plans to reduce the supply of
carbon permits when prices are low and sell more when they are
high “to maintain relatively stable levels,” Xie said in an
April speech on climate legislation. Xie is China’s lead climate
negotiator.  Regulations governing transactions in Shenzhen are still
being worked out.  Non-Compliance Penalties  The penalties for non-compliance with the new emissions
program may be too low to pose a real threat, according to Tomas
Wyns, Europe director at the Center for Clean Air Policy, who
consulted on Hubei’s carbon market design. If profits outweigh
the cost of flouting the law, companies have no incentive to
reduce pollution. Concern of official corruption is also on the
minds of regulators.  China’s emissions from energy use rose 6 percent last year
to 9.2 billion tons, 27 percent of the world’s total, according
to statistics published June 12 by  BP Plc. (BP/)  That pace is less
than 9 percent in 2011 and is the lowest increase since 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  