-- China’s Stocks Rise as Bank Share Buying Overshadows IPO Concern
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-06-18T08:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/china-s-stock-futures-rise-as-sovereign-fund-raises-bank-stakes.html
Chinese stocks  rose after a unit of
nation’s sovereign wealth fund boosted its stakes in the biggest
lenders, overshadowing concern regulators will resume approving
initial public offerings next month.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. (601398)  climbed 1
percent after Central Huijin Investment Ltd. bought  shares  of
the biggest lender. Ping An Bank Co. jumped 2.6 percent and  Gree
Electric Appliances Inc. (000651)  led gains for consumer companies after
the China Securities Journal reported the central bank may cut
interest rates and Credit Agricole SA forecast a cut in banks’
reserve-requirement ratios. China Vanke Co., the largest
developer, advanced 1.1 percent after data showed property
prices rising at the fastest pace in more than two years.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.1 percent to 2,159.29
at the close. The CSI 300 Index climbed 0.6 percent to 2,418.75.
The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  slid 0.3 percent. The
Bloomberg China-US Equity Index jumped 1.9 percent yesterday.  “There’s a rumor the central bank will reduce interest
rates and the reserve-ratio requirement,”  Zhang Gang , a
strategist at Central China Securities Holdings Co. in  Shanghai ,
said by phone. “This is pure speculation, so the drive is not
that strong. Even if we do have rate cuts, it typically takes
two rounds before there’s a positive impact on the economy and
we have the added pressure of new IPOs.”  The Shanghai Composite has slumped 11 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 6 on concern about slowing economic growth,
tighter liquidity and that IPOs will restart after being
suspended since October. China will probably resume approving
IPOs from the end of July, Reuters reported today, citing
unidentified sources present at a meeting of China Securities
Regulatory Commission Vice Chairman Yao Gang and brokerages.  Rate Outlook  The Shanghai index trades at 8.9 times 12-month estimated
earnings, compared with the three-year average of 10.8,  data 
compiled by Bloomberg showed. Its 30-day  volatility  was at 15.3,
compared with this year’s average of 19.1. Trading volumes were
30 percent below the 30-day moving average today and were the
fourth lowest this year, data showed.  The central bank may cut borrowing costs, the China
Securities Journal cited  Liu Yuhui , a researcher at the Chinese
Academy of Social Sciences, as saying.  Ping An Bank led gains for lenders, advancing 2.6 percent
to 19.73 yuan. Industrial Bank Co. added 1.9 percent to 16.64
yuan. ICBC rose 1 percent to 4.16 yuan. Central Huijin increased
its stake in the four biggest lenders last week. China
Construction Bank Corp., the second-largest lender, advanced 0.4
percent to 4.65 yuan.  Gree Electric, the largest maker of home air-conditioners,
rose 5.5 percent to 25.31 yuan. Great Wall Motor Co. paced an
advance for automakers with a 6.4 percent gain to 35.10 yuan.  Liquidity Tightens  China Vanke paced gains for developers, rising 1.1 percent
to 10.44  yuan . Rival Poly Real Estate Co. climbed 1.4 percent to
11.12 yuan. Chinese home prices climbed from a year earlier in
69 of the 70 cities tracked by the government, the National
Bureau of Statistics said in a statement today. The southern
business city of Guangzhou posted the biggest gain with prices
rising 15 percent from a year earlier. Beijing prices climbed 12
percent, while they advanced 10 percent in Shanghai.  China’s one-year interest-rate swap rates, the fixed cost
needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate,
reached 3.90 percent today, the highest level since September
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The People’s Bank of China didn’t auction repurchase
agreements or reverse-repurchase agreements today, according to
a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the sales.  Economic Slowdown  “The PBOC has continued to surprise with its refusal to
inject liquidity through open-market operations despite
extremely high money market rates,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Credit
Agricole CIB strategist in Hong Kong, wrote in a report today.
“The situation is untenable and we expect the central bank to
inject liquidity in the near term either via reverse repos or a
cut in the require reserve ratio.”  Interbank market liquidity may continue to be tight until
the beginning of July, according to a commentary in the  China 
Securities Journal. The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of
interbank funding availability, has averaged 6.03 percent in
June, the most since the National Interbank Funding Center began
compiling a weighted average in 2006.  Foreign direct investment increased 0.3 percent from a year
earlier to $9.26 billion, the Ministry of Commerce said today in
a statement in Beijing, after a 0.4 percent gain in April.
China’s outbound investment rose 20 percent in the first five
months of the year to $34.3 billion, compared with a 27.4
percent pace in January-April.  The report follows data indicating capital inflows slowed
last month while growth decelerated in exports, industrial
production and lending. Confidence is fading in an economic
rebound this quarter, with investment banks from Morgan Stanley
to Barclays Plc cutting their 2013 expansion forecasts.  Jiangxi Copper, the biggest producer of the metal, lost 1.2
percent to 18.70 yuan. Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., the listed unit
of China’s second-biggest steelmaker, slumped 1 percent to 4.33
yuan.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  