-- China Swap Jumps Most Since 2011 as PBOC Fails to Ease Crunch
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-18T09:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/china-swaps-climb-to-2011-high-as-pboc-refrains-from-adding-cash.html
China ’s one-year interest-rate swap
jumped the most since August 2011 as the central bank refrained
from adding cash to the financial system amid concern housing
costs are climbing too fast.  New home prices rose in 69 of the 70 cities tracked by the
government in May, official data showed today, signaling the
latest policy measures meant to slow demand failed. The People’s
Bank of China didn’t auction repurchase contracts or reverse-repurchase agreements today, according to a statement on its
website.  “The PBOC has continued to surprise with its refusal to
inject liquidity through open-market operations despite
extremely high money-market rates,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a
strategist in  Hong Kong  at Credit Agricole CIB, wrote in a
report today. The housing report is “a negative for sentiment
as this will make it more difficult for the government to
stimulate the economy,” he said.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost needed to receive
the floating seven-day repurchase rate, jumped 17 basis points,
the most since August 2011, to 3.99 percent in  Shanghai ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 4.02 percent
earlier, the highest level since September 2011.  China’s central bank auctioned 2 billion  yuan  ($326
million) of three-month bills today at 2.91 percent, unchanged
from the previous sale, according to a statement on its website.  Swap rates have risen because “the PBOC didn’t meet market
expectations that it will conduct reverse-repo operations
today,” said Chen Qi, a strategist at UBS Securities Co. in
Shanghai. “The bill issuance shows the central bank’s firm
stance that it won’t adjust the prudent monetary policy.”  Cash Shortage  A slowdown in capital inflows has contributed to cash
shortages in the local money market. Fund flows have declined
amid a government crackdown on hot money, an economic slowdown
and speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will rein in policies
that have boosted the supply of dollars.  Yuan positions  at local financial institutions accumulated
from sales of foreign exchange, an indication of capital flows
into China, rose 66.86 billion yuan in May, the central bank
reported on June 14. That was the smallest gain since November.
 Agricultural Development Bank of China Co.  scaled back the size
of two bond offerings today after the  Finance Ministry  failed
last week to sell all of the debt offered at an auction for the
first time in 23 months.  ‘Banking Problems’  China’s worst cash crunch in at least seven years is an
indicator of shadow lending gone awry and a banking crisis may
appear earlier than expected if liquidity remains tight,
according to  Fitch Ratings .  “We are starting to see some issues emerging” in
liquidity, Charlene Chu, Fitch’s head of China financial
institutions, said in an interview today with Zeb Eckert on
Bloomberg Television in Hong Kong. “If that doesn’t go away,
some of this may be moving ahead faster and earlier than we
thought. We are going to have banking sector problems. Those can
manifest either in a crisis or they can manifest in slow
growth.”  She earlier estimated China’s total credit, including off-balance-sheet loans, swelled to 198 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012 from 125 percent four years earlier, exceeding
increases in the ratio before banking crises in Japan and  South
Korea . In  Japan , the measure surged 45 percentage points from
1985 to 1990, and in South Korea, it gained 47 percentage points
from 1994 to 1998, Fitch said in July 2011.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, decreased seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 6.82 percent, according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  Some 32 billion yuan of bills and repo contracts will
mature this week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The tight liquidity may last at least until the middle of
July,” UBS’s Chen said. “In the middle of this year, demand
for cash may get stronger because commercial banks will try to
meet loan-to-deposit requirements.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  