-- Clippers End Talks to Acquire Garnett, Rivers, ESPN Says
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-06-18T18:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/clippers-end-trade-talks-to-acquire-garnett-rivers-espn-says.html
The  Los Angeles Clippers  ended trade
negotiations to acquire center  Kevin Garnett  and coach  Doc Rivers  from the  Boston Celtics , ESPN said.  Representatives of the two National Basketball Association
teams have no plans to speak again, ESPN reported, citing
unidentified people familiar with the talks. The Boston Globe
said Celtics President of Basketball Operations Danny Ainge
confirmed that negotiations had ended.  Talks stalled this morning after Los Angeles rejected
Boston’s proposal that the Clippers trade 24-year-old center
DeAndre Jordan straight up for Garnett, 37, and give two first-round draft picks as compensation for the Celtics letting Rivers
out of his contract, ESPN said.  Spokesman Jeff Twiss of the Celtics said in an e-mail that
the club had no comment on the reports “and are not aware of
any plans going forward.” Seth Burton, a spokesman for the
Clippers, said in an e-mail that the team had no comment.  Rivers, 51, has led  Boston  to seven playoff appearances and
an NBA title in nine years. He has three years and $21 million
remaining on his deal, according to ESPN. The Celtics would
welcome Rivers back next season, Ainge said according to the
Boston Globe.  A 15-time All-Star and NBA Most Valuable Player in 2004,
Garnett averaged 14.8 points and 7.8 rebounds per game last
season. Jordan started all 82 games for the Clippers in 2012-13,
scoring a career-high 8.8 points per game along with 7.2
rebounds per game.  Los Angeles expects to hire a coach within the next two
weeks, ESPN said. The Clippers said on May 21 that Vinny del Negro wouldn’t return for a fourth season after leading the team
to 56 wins and a division title for the first time in its 42-year history.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  