-- CMBS Sales Face $15 Billion Drop on Interest-Rate Jump, S&P Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-06-18T15:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/cmbs-sales-face-15-billion-drop-on-interest-rate-jump-s-p-says.html
Rising  interest rates  may trim
issuance of commercial-mortgage bonds by $15 billion this year,
according to  Standard & Poor’s .  An increase of 55 basis points on 10-year Treasury yields
coupled with a rise of 30 basis points on relative yields on
top-ranked securities linked to property loans will put a damper
on the resurgent market, S&P analysts led by Howard Esaki said
yesterday in a note to clients. The analysts estimate 2013 sales
of $65 billion after adjusting for the rising rates.  Commercial-mortgage bond sales that Credit Suisse Group AG
says are poised to climb as much as 50 percent to $70 billion
are being checked by investor concern that the  Federal Reserve 
will soon pare $85 billion of monthly bond purchases. The
unprecedented stimulus has suppressed interest rates and pushed
investors into higher-yielding assets.  Wall Street banks have arranged $37.6 billion of bonds
linked to everything from strip malls to Hawaiian resorts this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Speculation on when the central bank will reduce its
stimulus spurred a decline across credit markets last month,
pushing the yield on the benchmark 10-year  Treasury (USGG10YR)  note to 2.29
percent on June 11, the highest since April 2012.  Sweetened Offer  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays Plc sweetened the terms
on a $1.2 billion commercial-mortgage bond deal last week,
paying investors 410 basis points more than the benchmark swap
rate on BBB- bonds maturing in 9.97 years, according to people
familiar with the offering who asked not to be identified
because terms aren’t public. The debt was initially marketed to
yield 375 basis points, or 3.75 percentage points, more than
swaps, the people said.  A rise in rates should reduce lending volumes “on the
margin,” according to Credit Suisse. The bank isn’t changing
its issuance forecast, New York-based analysts led by Roger Lehman said in a report last week.  “Rates are so low now relative to historical levels that
the recent backup still leaves  mortgage rates  very attractive,”
the analysts said.  The yield on 10-year Treasuries has fallen back to 2.19
percent as traders await more signals as to whether the  U.S.
economy  is strong enough for the central bank to curb its bond-buying. Fed policy makers gather today for the start of a two-day meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  