-- Cobham Seeks Aviation Services Deals Amid Communications Growth
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-18T08:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/cobham-seeks-aviation-services-deals-amid-communications-growth.html
Cobham Plc (COB) , the world’s largest
maker of airborne refueling kit, said it’s seeking acquisitions
in aviation services and communications to reduce its reliance
on defense sales.  Prices in both fields are still attractive as the Wimborne,
England-based company also looks to expand its in-house
activities in those activities, Chief Executive Officer Bob Murphy said today in an interview. Although growing commercial
aerospace is also of interest, prices in that segment are
generally too high to warrant a transaction, he said.  Cobham generates about 70 percent of revenue from defense
sales, the bulk of it from U.S. military spending. Murphy said
he is looking to better balance the company in light of spending
cuts from that country, without putting a specific figure on the
share of sales to come from commercial markets.  “I like to buy businesses that already grow organically,”
Murphy told reporters at the  Paris Air Show .  Cobham completed
the acquisition of Axell Wireless, a
communications specialist that made systems for the London 2012
Olympics, in May, adding to last year’s purchase of Thrane &
Thrane, a satellite and radio communications company.  Aviation services, which includes specialist training of
U.K. troops and flight operations supporting mining activities
in  Australia , could be expanded into other markets, Murphy said.
The business accounted for 327 million pounds of Cobham’s 1.75
billion pounds of sales last year.  Cobham, the world largest provider of military aviation
refueling equipment, should also see good growth in that market
with positions on the Boeing Co. KC-46A tanker, the Airbus SAS
A330-based refueler, and a new model, the KC-390, being
developed by  Brazil ’s  Embraer SA (EMBR3) , Murphy said.  While Murphy would not rule out an acquisition in defense,
he called it “unlikely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  