-- Commerzbank to Cut More Than 5,000 Jobs: Handelsblatt
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-06-18T04:48:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/commerzbank-plans-to-cut-more-than-5-000-jobs-handelsblatt-says.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) , the German lender
that got 18.2 billion euros ($24.3 billion) in state aid, plans
to cut more than 5,000 jobs,  Handelsblatt  reported.  The bank’s board and employee representatives reached an
agreement on group-wide job cuts, according to an e-mailed
extract from an article to be published in the newspaper today,
citing two people it didn’t name who are familiar with the
negotiations. The worker’s council is scheduled to vote on the
plan tomorrow and an agreement is seen as “very likely,”
according to the newspaper.  Germany ’s second-biggest lender by market value in January
told employees it will cut 4,000 to 6,000 jobs over the next
four years as part of its plans to meet profit goals and repay
debt to the government. The bank last month raised capital for
the fifth time in four years and reported a loss for the second
consecutive quarter after booking a 493 million-euro charge in
the first quarter for restructuring, including cutting staff.  Richard Lips, Frankfurt-based head of communications of
Commerzbank, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request
for comment on the newspaper report before business hours.  Commerzbank Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  last
month said the reorganization will start bearing fruit next year
as the bank sees revenue pressure as well as higher provisions
and costs this year. The bank hasn’t paid a dividend since the
financial crisis.  Commerzbank has slumped 31 percent this year, compared with
an 4 percent gain in the 40-stock Bloomberg Europe Banks &
Financial Services Index. Five capital increases since 2008 have
erased more than 90 percent of the bank’s share price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  