-- Company Credit Swaps in U.S. Hold as Fed Starts Two-Day Meeting
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-06-18T17:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/company-credit-swaps-in-u-s-hold-as-fed-starts-two-day-meeting.html
     June 18 (Bloomberg) --A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
held at about the lowest in a week as investors await a Federal
Reserve statement tomorrow for any clues that the central bank
may pare unprecedented stimulus efforts.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
0.4 basis point to a mid-price of 82.3 basis points at 1:18 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit traders are looking for an indication from the Fed
on whether it will maintain $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases that have suppressed  interest rates  and pushed
investors into riskier assets including corporate debt. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will hold a press conference tomorrow
after the  Federal Open Market Committee  ends its two-day meeting
and issues a policy statement and economic forecast.  “All eyes are on the Fed statement tomorrow, with people
waiting to see if there is any change in the tone of the
statement with respect to potential tapering,”  Michael Kraft , a
 money manager  at Vanderbilt Avenue Asset Management LLC in New
York, said in an e-mail.  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Mylan Offering  Housing starts in May climbed 6.8 percent, less than
economists forecast, to a 914,000 annualized rate, according to
a Commerce Department report today in Washington. That’s up from
a revised 856,000 pace in April. The  consumer price index  rose
0.1 percent, the Labor Department reported, less than the 0.2
percent median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Mylan Inc. (MYL) , the second-biggest generic-drug maker, is
offering $1.15 billion of debt in its first bond sale this year.
The Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based company may sell $500 million
of three-year securities to yield 135 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries and $650 million of five-year notes
paying a spread of 160, according to a person with knowledge of
the transaction.  Proceeds will be used to repay debt and for general
corporate purposes, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  The  risk premium  on the Market CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 1.6 basis points to 401.4 basis points, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt rose 0.8 basis point to 552.2 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at  Standard
& Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in New York at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  