-- Copper Declines to Six-Week Low in New York Before Fed Meeting
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-06-18T17:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/copper-falls-a-second-day-as-investors-await-fed-stimulus-signs.html
Copper fell to the lowest in six
weeks in New York as Federal Reserve policy makers begin a
meeting that may indicate when the central bank will start
curbing debt purchases intended to stoke the U.S. economy.  A two-day meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee
starts today. The Fed is buying $85 billion of debt a month.
Housing starts climbed 6.8 percent to a 914,000 annualized rate
in May, a government report showed today, trailing the 950,000
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  “People are really waiting to see what the Fed determines
as far as tapering their bond purchases,”  Adam Klopfenstein , a
senior market strategist at Archer Financial Inc. in  Chicago ,
said in a telephone interview. “The housing data is showing
that, while we’ve had some traction, future gains from these
levels are going to be harder to come by.”  Copper futures for delivery in September retreated 1.3
percent to settle at $3.1675 a pound at 1:16 p.m. on the Comex
in New York. The metal touched $3.151, the lowest for a most-active contract since May 3.  Construction generates about 40 percent of demand,
according to the Copper Development Association.  Production of refined copper will exceed demand by 127,000
metric tons this year, according to RBC Capital Markets LLC. New
projects will add an estimated 1 million tons of capacity, or 5
percent of global mine supply, in the coming year, according to
Macquarie Group Ltd.  “There is downside risk to both our copper demand and
price forecasts,” Fraser Phillips, an analyst at RBC in
Toronto, said in a report e-mailed today. “Without an
improvement in the outlook for global economic growth, there is
a risk that the copper market surplus could be much larger than
we currently forecast in 2013.”  On the  London  Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months fell 1.1 percent to $7,005 a ton ($3.18 a pound).  Aluminum, lead, nickel and tin dropped in London, while
zinc was unchanged.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  