-- Corporate VC Managers Counter Fred Wilson’s ‘Patronizing’ Attack
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n ,   C a l l i e   B o s t   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-06-18T20:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/corporate-vc-managers-counter-fred-wilson-s-patronizing-attack.html
Venture capital funds run in-house
by companies defended their ability to serve entrepreneurs at
the  Bloomberg Next Big Thing Summit  after Union Square Ventures’
 Fred Wilson  ridiculed them earlier this month.  Wilson said he would “never ever ever ever” do business
with corporate venture funds during an interview at a
 PandoMonthly New York  event on June 13. Wilson’s assertion that
corporations can’t effectively invest and nurture startups
without sapping them of resources for the benefit of the parent
company is wrong, said Deborah Hopkins, chairman of venture
capital initiatives for  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Citi Ventures, today in
Half Moon Bay,  California .  “The only way to be relevant is to truly be the champion
of the company,” Hopkins said. “We don’t believe in pushing
exclusivity at all.”  Corporate venture funds including Citi Ventures and Comcast
Ventures, a unit of the largest U.S. cable operator  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) , have invested millions in startups such as Square Inc.,
Flipboard Inc. and Fullscreen Inc., said Heidi Mason, co-founder
and managing partner at Bell Mason Group. They give
entrepreneurs instant credibility and access to partners with
international reach, she said.  “I happen to find that a patronizing, historical view of
corporate venture,” said Mason, a senior adviser to Global 1000
corporations at Bell Mason and formerly CEO and co-founder of
Acuity, a Silicon Valley marketing and communications agency.  Wilson didn’t immediately respond to a call and e-mail
seeking comment.  Citi Ventures  Citi Ventures has given mobile-payment startup Square
insight on how to expand internationally and implement
technology in a business with the scale of Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. bank by assets, Hopkins said. Square, founded by
Twitter Inc. Chairman Jack Dorsey, has raised money from
investors including Citi Ventures,  Rizvi Traverse Management  LLC
and Starbucks Corp.  Comcast Ventures, which has funded more than 100 companies
with 40 active in its portfolio, appealed to Fullscreen as an
investor because of the “insights and access” of the largest
U.S. cable operator, according to Michael Yang, managing
director of the unit.  Comcast, Chernin Group and WPP Digital  said  yesterday
they’re investing in the two-year-old Fullscreen, an independent
YouTube network with more than 10,000 channels. Comcast’s NBC
Universal unit also makes the venture fund an appealing equity
holder for many media companies, he said.  “I think in very specific industries, like health care,
education and media, you don’t get too far in those ecosystems
without a corporate partner,” Yang said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  