-- Croatia in Right Direction Before EU Entry, Vujcic Says
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-06-18T07:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/croatia-moving-in-right-direction-before-eu-entry-vujcic-says.html
Croatia ’s government is doing what’s
necessary to return to economic growth for the first time since
2008 as the Balkan nation gears up to become the European
Union’s 28th member, central bank Governor Boris Vujcic said.  Efforts during the past six months to restructure state-owned companies and improve the business climate should help
“reap the benefits of EU entry,” Vujcic said June 14 in an
interview in Dubrovnik, Croatia.  “The government has taken the right direction in terms of
structural reforms,” he said. The policies mark a departure
from 2012, when there was “too much reliance on public
investment to spur the growth.”  Croatia’s economy, which has suffered as Europe’s debt
crisis curbed foreign direct investment by about 80 percent,
will shrink 1 percent this year after a 2 percent contraction in
2012, the European Commission predicted May 3. The 17-month-old
 government  of Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic  is banking on 10
billion euros ($13 billion) in EU funds through 2020 to help
reverse the slump as the country of 4.2 million prepares to join
the bloc July 1.  The yield on Croatia’s dollar bond due July 2020 fell to
4.996 percent at 9:50 a.m. yesterday in Zagreb, the lowest since
June 5. The cost to insure debt against non-payment for five
years with credit-default swaps dropped to 306.02 from 308.25
yesterday.  Living Standards  Milanovic has earmarked the EU cash for energy, tourism and
infrastructure projects and plans to bring living standards up
to those of existing eastern members such as the Czech Republic,
Slovakia and  Poland . Vujcic, 49, who replaced Zeljko Rohatinski
last July, has previously called the government inefficient and
accused it of being slow to implement policies.  Vujcic said “speed is of the essence” in restructuring
companies such as state railway Hrvatske Zeljeznice d.d. and
flag carrier Croatia Airlines d.d. Initiatives such as
overhauling the labor and strategic investment laws should also
be accelerated, he said.  Croatia should join the euro area “as soon as possible”
because the kuna already tracks the common currency and almost
three-quarters of savings are held in euros, according to
Vujcic. Still, he said it’s too soon to discuss timing as
accession would require at least three years and an improvement
in the country’s economic performance, in particular a falling
government debt ratio.  For the time being, the central bank won’t allow “large
fluctuations” in the exchange rate in either direction and
exporters should boost productivity to improve sales, he said.  Debt Projection  Public debt will increase to 55 percent of economic output
this year, while state borrowing will total 27 billion kuna
($4.8 billion), the government forecasts. Croatia is rated BB+
by  Standard & Poor’s  and Ba1 by  Moody’s Investors Services ,
their highest junk assessments. Fitch Ratings has the nation at
BBB-, its lowest investment grade.  Gross domestic product fell 1.5 percent from a year earlier
between January and March, declining for a sixth quarter. GDP
will rise 0.7 percent this year, the  government  forecasts. The
central bank will update its 0.3 percent growth forecast next
month.  As Croatia enters EU budget scrutiny, the fiscal deficit
should be narrowed by half a percentage point a year starting in
2014, according to Vujcic. The government is seeking to limit
this year’s gap to 3.4 percent of GDP by cutting investment in
water projects.  While EU entry will help attract foreign investment in the
medium term, the immediate benefits will probably be “small”
because Croatia is at a different stage in its development than
earlier entrants, Vujcic said.  “For the EU, the main contribution of Croatia’s entry is
that it shows there is still attractiveness in the European
project,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  