-- Czech Central Bank Isn’t Behind the Curve on Easing, Lizal Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-06-18T08:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/czech-central-bank-isn-t-behind-the-curve-on-easing-lizal-says.html
Czech central bank isn’t behind the
curve on monetary easing even as inflation rate remains below
its forecast, policy maker Lubomir Lizal said. He commented on
economic developments and monetary policy outlook in an
interview in  Prague  yesterday.  On economy’s mixed signals:  “The economy is showing mixed signals. The overall GDP
decline and subsequent data showing slower inflation were
unpleasant news in terms of a surprising downward deviation from
our forecast.  ‘‘These are signals that the recovery is being delayed. On
the other hand, the structure of GDP wasn’t that pessimistic.  ‘‘So the numbers are ambiguous and they’re not offering an
explicit interpretation of the outlook for the economy.  ‘‘From the GDP structure, one could hope that the worst is
behind us. But from the overall GDP number, and from the price
developments, I’m not sure that it’s really behind us from the
monetary-policy point of view.  ‘‘It’s a situation when you don’t have a strong positive
message, and you have only some signals in both directions, so
it’s not possible to formulate a strong view about a turnaround
of the economy.  ‘‘In the past five years, the predicted ‘recovery’ always
came later and weaker than what was expected, so I’m a little
cautious.  ‘‘The situation is mixed, with some signs of improvement.
In inflation developments, which are more important from the
monetary-policy viewpoint, I’m recognizing materializing
disinflationary risks.’’  On Koruna:  ‘‘The koruna’s exchange rate has been moving at relatively
weaker levels, which helped to ease monetary conditions. From my
point of view, this was positive, because the situation warrants
more relaxed conditions rather than some stagnation.’’  On interventions:  ‘‘If the decision at the last policy meeting had been about
 interest rates , I would have very seriously considered cutting
rates. The exchange-rate channel is much faster. The standard
policy horizon for a change in rates is 12 to 18 months, while
the exchange-rate effect could be visible in the inflation as
early as in half a year.  ‘‘Now it seems much more likely that there will be a need
to intervene, compared with what it appeared to be at the
beginning of the year. But given the faster transmission of the
exchange rate channel, I do not believe we are getting behind
the curve.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  