-- Czech Bank Profits at Risk From Rising Yields, CNB Says
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-06-18T14:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/czech-bank-profits-at-risk-from-rising-yields-cnb-says.html
Czech government bond yields are
poised to rise, risking an erosion of bank profits, central bank
Governor Miroslav Singer said.  Yields in the country are now “unsustainably low” after a
“flight to quality” during  Europe ’s debt crisis, Singer told
journalists in Prague today. The share of domestic sovereign
debt held by the Czech banking industry rose last year to 17
percent of balance sheets from 15 percent, almost triple the
proportion in the euro area, he said.  Demand for Czech bonds, which had the biggest rally in a
decade last year, has eased on optimism the euro region will
contain its debt crisis and the global economy will recover.
While the domestic financial industry is “very resilient” to
external shocks, increased holdings in  government bonds  pose a
risk to some companies, Singer said at a presentation of the
central bank’s financial stability report.  “In some cases we’re beginning to look into whether or not
the concentration of bonds begins to be a reason for us to
consider to what extent a given bank is vulnerable to a
potential decline in bond prices,” Singer said. “Should the
yields suddenly start rising, the bonds need to be repriced and
the banks will book losses.”  First-quarter profit at Komercni Banka AS, the only listed
Czech lender, fell 9.9 percent from a year earlier as income
from fees and financial operations shrank and one-time gains
booked in 2012 were not repeated, the Czech unit of Societe
Generale SA said on May 7. The net income, which jumped to a
record 13.95 billion koruna ($728 million) in 2012, is set to
drop to 12 billion koruna this year, according to the median
estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Rising Yields  Yields on benchmark 10-year koruna notes rose four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point today, to 2.04 percent by 3:37
p.m. in  Prague , taking the advance over the past month to 56
basis points after touching a record-low 1.48 percent on May 17.
The premium over comparable German bunds was 47 basis points, up
from a 12 point  spread  five weeks ago, the narrowest since 2008,
according to generic indexes compiled by Bloomberg.  Increased ownership of government bonds are a “natural
reaction” to uncertainties associated with the EU’s debt
crisis, the  Czech Banking Association  said today in response to
e-mailed questions from Bloomberg. The holdings are higher than
the average for euro-region countries, it said.  Stability Call  “This is one of the reasons why the CBA has for several
years emphasized the need for a stable fiscal development in the
 Czech Republic , in order to avoid an increase in the risk
premiums on these securities,” Jan Matousek, the deputy
executive director at the association, said in the statement.  The three-year-old government of Prime Minister Petr Necas,
who resigned yesterday amid a spying and bribery scandal, has
credited its fiscal-austerity program with luring bondholders
and lowering its bond yields. It predicts its  budget deficit 
will shrink to below the European Union’s limit of 3 percent of
gross domestic product this year for the first time since 2008.  Czech bonds have the highest credit ratings in emerging
Europe, on par with Estonia, and are the cheapest to insure with
credit-default swaps. The contracts, which fall as perceptions
of creditworthiness improve, dropped two basis points today to
58 today, compared with 71 for higher-rated  France , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The Czech Republic’s current fiscal situation is stable
and sustainable,” Singer said. “The government is the banks’
biggest borrower, which represents an exposure that, should the
fiscal situation start worsening, would create a real risk of
concentration.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  