-- Czech Koruna Sales Deemed More Likely by Lizal on Inflation
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-06-18T14:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/czech-koruna-sales-deemed-more-likely-by-lizal-on-inflation-2-.html
The Czech central bank is more
likely to need currency interventions to weaken the koruna as
the inflation rate remains below its forecast, policy maker
Lubomir Lizal said.  The Ceska Narodni Banka in  Prague  isn’t “behind the
curve” on easing monetary conditions as currency sales have a
faster impact than interest-rate cuts, central bank board member
Lizal said in an interview in Prague yesterday. While mixed
signals from the  economy  are clouding the outlook, inflation is
surprising by missing the central bank’s forecast, Lizal said.  “Now it seems much more likely that there will be a need
to intervene, compared with what it appeared to be at the
beginning of the year,” Lizal said. “Given the faster
transmission of the exchange rate channel, I don’t believe we
are getting behind the curve.”  The $217 billion  economy  contracted for six consecutive
quarters through March, its longest  recession  since current
records started in 1996. With households and businesses curbing
spending, the central bank cut  borrowing costs  to what it calls
“technical zero” last year and policy makers began in
September deliberating whether weakening the koruna is needed to
meet their 2 percent inflation target within 18 months.  Koruna Slump  The koruna has lost 4.3 percent against the euro since
Sept. 17, the day before Governor Miroslav Singer first signaled
the possibility of currency sales. It reversed earlier gains
today to trade 0.2 percent weaker at 25.650 per euro as of 4:05
p.m. in Prague. The yield on the government’s 10-year koruna
bond rose 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.03
percent.  Lizal’s comments are part of effort to keep the koruna at
weaker levels, according to Michal Brozka, an analyst at
Raiffeisenbank AS in Prague.  “While we expect a cyclical economic recovery that would
support the koruna, the CNB will keep intervening verbally to
slow down the currency gains,” Brozka said by phone.  The central bank kept the benchmark two-week repurchase
rate at 0.05 percent for a fourth meeting on May 2, almost half
a point below the  European Central Bank ’s main rate.  Inflation Pickup  Consumer prices  grew 1.3 percent last month from a year
earlier, the slowest in almost three years as the cost of
natural gas fell and mobile-phone operators cut charges. That
compared with the central bank’s estimate of 1.6 percent.  Inflation relevant for monetary policy, defined as price
growth adjusted for changes in indirect taxes, was 0.6 percent
in May, below the 1 percent to 3 percent target band, according
to the central bank.  The economy contracted 2.2 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier. Even as the recession deepened, the GDP
data showed some signs of improvement as household spending
rebounded, Lizal said.  Still, in price trends, which are more important from the
monetary-policy viewpoint, “I’m recognizing materializing
disinflationary risks,” according to Lizal.  “If the decision at the last policy meeting had been about
 interest rates , I would have very seriously considered cutting
rates,” he said. “The exchange-rate channel is much faster.
The standard policy horizon for a change in rates is 12 to 18
months, while the exchange-rate effect could be visible in the
inflation as early as in half a year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  