-- Davis Polk Hires Former FTC Chairman Leibowitz as Partner
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-06-18T02:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/davis-polk-hires-former-ftc-chairman-leibowitz-as-partner.html
Davis Polk & Wardwell LLC hired
Jonathan Leibowitz, the former chairman of the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission, as a partner in its Washington office.  Leibowitz, who served as an FTC commissioner from 2004 to
2009 and as chairman from 2009 to 2013, will join the firm’s
antitrust team and provide counsel on privacy law, the firm said
in a statement.  “With the addition of Jon, we strengthen our commitment to
ensuring that our Washington office is a destination for solving
complex antitrust and merger clearance issues,”  Thomas J. Reid, the New York-based firms’s managing partner, said in the
statement.  Leibowitz, on his 55th birthday, today won a U.S. Supreme
Court victory in his long-standing crusade against reverse
settlement payments for generic drugs. The court ruled that
consumers and regulators can sue brand-name pharmaceutical
companies when they’ve paid generic drug makers to keep cheaper
versions off the market.  The court stopped short of adopting the FTC’s proposal that
such agreements should be presumed anticompetitive, saying the
accords should be evaluated under a longstanding antitrust test
known as the “rule of reason.”  At the FTC, Leibowitz oversaw a 20-month antitrust
investigation of  Google Inc. (GOOG)  that left the search engine
operator free to extend its dominance after the commission voted
to end its review without taking enforcement action and allowing
Google to make voluntary commitments.  Google Deal  Former FTC Commissioner  Thomas Rosch , a Republican, said at
the time that while he believed Google’s conduct in search
didn’t warrant action, the agreement the agency accepted created
a bad precedent and gave the impression that firms with deep
pockets could receive special treatment at the agency.  “After promising an elephant more than a year ago, the
commission instead has brought forth a couple of mice,” Rosch
wrote at the time in a separate statement.  Leibowitz said June 13 in a text message he was going on
vacation in the Galapagos Islands before starting his new
position because he needed to “leave civilization for a
while.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  