-- Detroit’s Recovery Plan Dips Into Pensions to Keep City Afloat
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-06-18T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/detroit-s-recovery-plan-dips-into-pensions-to-keep-city-afloat.html
Detroit  Emergency Manager 
Kevyn Orr's proposal to cut pension benefits previously thought 
sacrosanct  for 30,000 workers and retirees may tip Detroit into 
bankruptcy if unions don't play along.  Getting dispassionate bondholders to take partial payment
will be easier than wresting retirement cuts from unions, said
Ken Schneider, a Detroit bankruptcy lawyer. He said Orr’s June
20 meeting with unions and creditors meant to frame negotiations
over $17 billion in debt and obligations may presage the largest 
U.S. municipal bankruptcy.  “It’s one thing for union leaders to say, ‘This was forced
on us by a court,’ and something else to say, ‘We agreed to
this,’” Schneider said in a telephone interview. “That’s a
harder sell to your members.”  Orr’s plan will test retirees’ contention that  Michigan ’s
constitution protects vested pension benefits. No such shield
exists, the state-appointed manager’s advisers said June 14 when
they unveiled his plan to restructure Michigan’s largest city, a
former auto-manufacturing powerhouse that lost one-quarter of
its population since 2000. Orr has said that if he doesn’t get
what he wants, Chapter 9 bankruptcy would be a last resort.  Detroit missed a $39.7 million payment on debt issued to
bolster its pensions that was due June 14, its first failure to
repay bondholders. The city has about $1.5 billion of such
obligations, which Fitch Ratings cut yesterday to D, its lowest
credit grade.  Weighing Claims  Orr’s plan would pay creditors no more than 10 cents on the
dollar for $2 billion in unsecured debt, and the same for
unfunded pension liabilities that Orr estimates at $3.5 billion
-- an inflated figure, said Bruce Babiarz, a spokesman for the
police and firefighter fund. The result would be an unspecified
cut in benefits, which the funds are girding to fight in court 
with $5 million they’ve set aside.  Should Detroit wind up in Chapter 9, federal law may trump
Michigan’s, said Dale Ginter, a Sacramento, California, lawyer
who represented retirees who worked for bankrupt Vallejo in that
state, and has studied the issue. One of the biggest fights
would be over whether bond obligations and debt owed to vendors
has more protection than pension claims, said bankruptcy lawyer
James E. Spiotto, a partner with Chapman and Cutler LLP in
 Chicago .  Family Forestalled  Reducing benefits would be “heartbreaking,” said Chet
Kulesza, of Detroit’s Police Labor Council, which represents
civilian employees.  “You have people who are 75 years old and they’re used to
getting a pension, and they’re going to cut it,” Kulesza said
after hearing Orr’s presentation last week. “You have people
paying a penalty for something they are not responsible for.”  Brendan Milewski, 34, retired as a firefighter with
paralyzing injuries after a wall collapsed on him while he
fought a building blaze in August 2010. Milewski said he
receives $2,800 a month for his 12 years on the force.  Milewski said he and his wife, Angie, 30, have delayed
plans for children because of uncertainty about his income.
Milewski said firefighters face danger and family strains other
workers don’t.  “That pension at the end of the tunnel, that bred loyalty
for guys to stick around,” he said.  No Refuge  Union battles have played a role in three of the four
biggest municipal bankruptcies filed since 2008. That year,
Vallejo sought court protection after unions rejected wage cuts.  The onetime U.S. Navy town of about 120,000 on San
Francisco Bay imposed new contracts on workers, cut its police
force and eliminated medical benefits for retirees.  Last year, Stockton and San Bernardino in  California  filed
bankruptcy, citing pension and other labor costs. Both cities
have demanded that workers pay more toward their pensions.  “Bankruptcy has not been a panacea for labor unions,” Ron
M. Oliner, a lawyer who represented the police union in Vallejo.
“It is hard to fathom a circumstance where Detroit’s unions
would not want to negotiate in an effort to avoid a filing if
possible.”  Milewski, the firefighter, said the city should take care
of those who sacrificed for it.  “For years we kept saying they can’t, they can’t, there’s
no way they can cut us as retirees, and take away money these
guys earned in a career,” Milewski said. “It’s so
disheartening, and not just in my situation, where I lost the
use of my legs in the line of duty.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing, MI 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net . 