-- Deutsche Bank Sees ‘Subdued’ Commodity Prices as Supercycle Ends
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-06-18T12:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/deutsche-bank-sees-subdued-commodity-prices-as-supercycle-ends.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  said commodity
prices are poised to remain in “subdued territory for years to
come” after a bull run that drove prices up almost fourfold in
the last 12 years.  Banks from Citigroup Inc. to Goldman Sachs Inc. have called
an end to the commodities supercycle as the economy in China,
top user of raw materials, grows at a slower pace and the
country shifts to consumer-driven growth. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Index of 24 raw materials fell 2.5 percent this year after
almost quadrupling since 2001.  “Many of the factors and fears that drove the supercycle
have dissipated in the last few years,” Deutsche Bank’s
economists Taimur Baig and  Jun Ma  said in a report e-mailed
today. “ Emerging markets  demand is robust but not as insatiable
as once thought, especially with China’s appearing to be slowing
down. Fear of a global spike in inflation due to exceptionally
loose monetary policy has proven to be unfounded.”  Commodity prices began to lose momentum in 2011 despite
signs of “global tail-risk abating” and economic recovery, the
bank said. There are sufficient “pockets of demand” and
failures on the supply side to provide a floor to commodity
prices, the analysts wrote, adding they are not forecasting a
commodities “bust.” China accounts for a quarter of global
commodities demand, according to Deutsche Bank.  Prices will “remain lackluster for many years to come” on
weak consumption as global oil demand is projected to grow by
1.5 percent a year at most, companies ramp up output after years
of elevated prices and growth in key markets including  China 
becomes less commodity-intensive, the analysts wrote.  Energy prices will also be impacted by growth of shale
production in the U.S. and potentially “sizable” shale gas
production in China in the next four to eight years, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  