-- Deutsche Bank Settles Los Angeles ‘Slumlord’ Lawsuit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-06-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/deutsche-bank-settles-los-angeles-slumlord-lawsuit.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  reached a
settlement with the city of  Los Angeles  to resolve a lawsuit
claiming the bank acted like a “slumlord” and let foreclosed
homes in low-income neighborhoods fall into disrepair.  The bank and the Los Angeles city attorney filed a joint
notice of settlement June 17 in California state court. The two
sides reached an agreement in principle and are in the process
of completing the documentation, according to the filing.  Terms of the settlement of the two-year-old lawsuit, which
also accused Deutsche Bank of illegally evicting tenants,
weren’t disclosed in the filing.  Los Angeles sued the Frankfurt-based bank in May 2011,
claiming Deutsche Bank had become one of the major “slumlords”
in the city by buying more than 2,200 properties through
foreclosure.  California  Superior Court Judge Elihu Berle at an
April 8 hearing denied the bank’s request to dismiss the case.  City Attorney Carmen Trutanich had sought a court order for
Deutsche Bank to clean up the properties and comply with the
municipal code, a penalty of $2,500 a day for each violation of
the code and restitution. The bank faced liabilities of
“hundreds of millions of dollars,” the city attorney said in
2011.  The bank said when the lawsuit was filed that the city sued
the wrong party. Loan servicers, not Deutsche Bank as trustee,
were contractually responsible for maintaining the properties
and for any actions taken with respect to tenants of the
foreclosed properties, the bank said.  Duncan King , a spokesman for Deutsche Bank in  New York ,
declined to comment on the settlement. Representatives of
Trutanich didn’t immediately respond to calls and e-mails
seeking comment.  The case is People v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co.,
BC460878, Superior Court of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles federal court at
   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  