-- DiNapoli Says 24 N.Y. Municipalities Face Fiscal Distress
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-06-18T15:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/dinapoli-says-24-new-york-municipalities-face-fiscal-distress.html
Niagara Falls and Rochester’s home
county are among the 24 most fiscally distressed municipalities
in  New York , a report by Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  found.  The study examined 1,043 governments across the state and
ranked them based on 23 financial indicators, including cash on
hand, operating deficits and demographics. It found that eight
counties, three cities and 13 towns showed a pattern of deficits
and too little cash to pay bills.  It’s the first comprehensive review of New York localities
under a monitoring program DiNapoli started last year, his
office said.  “The challenges facing local governments have reached a
critical point, and these fiscal stress scores should serve as a
wake-up call,” DiNapoli said today in a statement. “We have
identified local governments from every region of this state
that are facing some level of fiscal stress and presented them
with a realistic picture of their financial condition.”  From  California  to New York, local governments,
particularly those that rely on sales and property taxes, have
yet to see revenue rebound after the recession that ended in
2009. DiNapoli, a 59-year-old Democrat, created the monitoring
system after his auditors found last year that almost 300 local
governments had deficits in previous years, and more than 100
didn’t have enough cash to pay their bills.  Monroe Worst  The report included only municipalities whose fiscal year
ended Dec. 31. It didn’t include New York, Buffalo, Rochester,
Syracuse and Yonkers, the state’s biggest cities.  Eighteen communities, including Nassau and Suffolk counties
on  Long Island , are still under review, DiNapoli said.  Monroe County, which includes Rochester, received the worst
score, and Niagara Falls was tied for third-worst.  Niagara Falls, the city of 50,000 named after the cascade
that divides New York and  Canada , had its  credit rating  cut last
month by Moody’s Investors Service to one step above junk. The
move came after the state and the Seneca Nation of Indians were
unable to settle a dispute over more than $600 million in  tax
revenue  from the tribe’s casinos.  Moody’s said at the time that the city was poised to run
out of cash by November. Since then, Governor  Andrew Cuomo  ended
the stalemate. Niagara Falls will receive an $89 million lump-sum payment for back taxes owed on the Senecas’ slot machines as
well as an annual share of casino revenue.  ‘Significant Boost’  “That issue being resolved will be a significant boost to
the city’s fiscal health,” DiNapoli said on a conference call
with reporters. “There will still be issues we’ll continue to
look at.”  Cuomo, a 55-year-old Democrat, is working with lawmakers to
strike a deal on a panel that would advise local governments on
how they can merge services such as human resources to find
savings. The panel may also serve as arbitrator in disputes
between fiscally stressed localities and their police and fire
unions, and may be able to limit growth in wages.  DiNapoli said his office is already offering services to
localities, including budget reviews for those that ask. He’s
also created a program to help them find ways to lower mandated
costs, such as pension payments. 