-- Diplomacy Heats Up After N. Korea’s Offer of Talks With U.S.
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-06-18T07:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/diplomacy-heats-up-after-north-korea-s-offer-of-talks-with-u-s-.html
North Korea’s recent offers to
resume negotiations with South Korea and then the U.S. set off a
series of meetings on how to proceed among countries involved in
stalled six-party talks over its nuclear program.  Russia  sees North Korea’s recent outreach as a potential
breakthrough for restarting nuclear disarmament talks, while the
U.S. and South Korea say that sincere action from the regime on
halting its nuclear ambitions must precede dialogue.  North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s offer earlier this week
of peace talks with the U.S. “may be a new dynamic that could
help to unfreeze the six-party talks process,” Russian Foreign
Ministry spokesman Alexander Lukashevich told reporters
yesterday in Moscow.  The U.S. believes bilateral talks outside of the
multinational process -- which also involves Russia, China,
 Japan  and South Korea -- are possible only after the North takes
“credible steps toward concrete denuclearization,” State
Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki told reporters yesterday in
 Washington .  A series of diplomatic maneuvers will take place this week
after months of tensions on the Korean peninsula following the
North’s February nuclear weapons test and subsequent threats of
preemptive atomic strikes. A senior North Korean diplomat will
meet his Chinese counterpart tomorrow in Beijing, as officials
from the U.S., South Korea and Japan meet in Washington.  Shuttle Diplomacy  The six-party talks member states are engaging in shuttle
diplomacy as part of “serious preparations” ahead of any
resumption of dialogue, Lukashevich said, adding that Russia’s
contact with the North continues as usual. “The gesture given
by Pyongyang signals that conditions are ripening for delayed
dialogues to move forward,” he said.  The six-party talks were last held in December 2008, with
North Korea officially quitting the process in 2009 and
revealing a new uranium enrichment facility.  “There seems to be a U.S.-led consensus among member
states on the need for a fundamental shift” on North Korea,
said Lee Nae Young, a political science professor at Korea
University in  Seoul . “Russia probably agrees that the six-party
talks have failed, but made the comment yesterday to stay
relevant in the discussion.”  Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Zhang Yesui will meet his
North Korean counterpart, Kim Kye Gwan, in Beijing tomorrow for
talks, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said at a
briefing in Beijing yesterday.  Improve Ties  Glyn Davies, the top U.S. envoy on North Korea, will hold
talks with his Japanese and South Korean counterparts Shinsuke Sugiyama and Cho Tae Yong tomorrow in Washington, the State
Department said.  Kim Kye Gwan will probably try to improve bilateral ties
after China backed stronger United Nations sanctions on North
Korea for its February nuclear test, Korea University’s Lee
said.  “The South Koreans and the Americans would like to see
 China  guide the North away from wanting to find an exit from its
isolation through partners other than the South,” Lee said.  South Korea President Park Geun Hye and Chinese counterpart
Xi Jinping, who will meet when she visits Beijing June 27-30,
are expected to announce a statement reinforcing the two
leaders’ agreement on the need for a nuclear-free North Korea,
the South’s Foreign Minister Yun Byung Se told lawmakers today
in Seoul.  ’No Possibility’  North Korea’s proposal for talks with the U.S. was the
second time this month it has reached out, after requesting a
meeting with the South a week earlier to discuss reopening a
joint factory park. The gathering would have been the first such
inter-Korean dialogue in six years, and was later called off by
North Korea after a dispute over who would lead each delegation.  There is “virtually no possibility” of talks between the
U.S. and North Korea, especially at the exclusion of the South,
Unification Minister Ryoo Kihl Jae told lawmakers yesterday in
parliament.  The U.S. and South Korea have emphasized the importance of
six-party member states in sending a unified message to the
North.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  