-- Doctors Call for Halt to Energy Drink Ads to U.S. Youths
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-06-18T21:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/doctors-call-for-halt-to-energy-drink-ads-to-u-s-youths.html
A group representing  225,000  U.S.
doctors called for a ban on marketing energy drinks, such as
those from Red Bull GmbH and  Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST) , to youths.  The  American Medical Association , in a vote at its annual
policy meeting in  Chicago , today endorsed a policy that called
for limiting how the caffeinated beverages are sold to those
younger than 18. The group cited studies that link the drinks to
heart problems and reports about emergency room visits by
children after consuming the drinks.  “Energy drinks contain massive and excessive amounts of
caffeine that may lead to a host of health problems in young
people, including heart problems,” Alexander Ding, a physician
and AMA board member, said in an e-mailed statement. “Banning
companies from marketing these products to adolescents is a
common sense action that we can take to protect the health of
American kids.”  Caffeinated energy drinks have been marketed heavily to
young people despite possible health risks, the doctor’s group
said in its  resolution . The group called for a temporary ban on
youth marketing “until such time as the scientific evidence
regarding the possible adverse medical affects that stimulant
drinks may have on children and adolescents is determined.”  Greater Scrutiny  Energy drinks have been under scrutiny after being linked
to deaths and hospitalizations. The U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  has looked into whether the drinks can cause harm
when consumed in excess or by young people or those with pre-existing heart conditions. Members of Congress have called for
more clarity on the drinks’ ingredients and health effects.  “We are disappointed that the American Medical Association
passed this resolution,” said Maureen Beach, a spokeswoman for
the  American Beverage Association , an industry trade group.
“Leading energy drink companies also voluntarily display total
caffeine amounts -- from all sources -- on their packages, as
well as an advisory statement indicating that the product is not
intended (or recommended) for children.”  The AMA provides medical and public health recommendations
and lobbies government. Any ban on advertising would have to be
legislated or enacted by Congress, state governments or a
regulatory agency. The industry could also agree to a voluntary
policy limiting marketing.  Monster is the largest U.S. energy drink maker by sales
volume.  Red Bull , Pepsi Co. and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  also market the
caffeinated drinks. The doctors’ association specified they
weren’t talking about sport drinks such as Gatorade.  Shares of Monster Energy were almost unchanged at $59.63 at
the close in New York.  Wide Variety  The AMA considered about 150 policy resolutions at the
meeting, including one that formally declared obesity to be a
disease, upgrading its status from a condition with a range of
causes. The change may affect the way doctors treat obesity and
how insurers and the government pay for treatment, according to
the AMA. About 1 in 3 Americans is obese, according to the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  “Recognizing obesity as a disease will help change the way
the medical community tackles this complex issue,” Patrice
Harris, a physician and AMA board member, said in a statement.  The group also voted to recommend alerting patients to the
health risks of sitting down all day, as many office workers do.
It called for sitting breaks, use of isometric balls instead of
chairs, and other ways of making long-term sitting less harmful
to health.  Prolonged Sitting  “Prolonged sitting, particularly in work settings, can
cause health problems,” Harris said. “Encouraging workplaces
to offer employees alternatives to sitting all day will help to
create a healthier workforce.”  The resolution cites a 2006 study of 222,000 Australians
that found sitting  more than four hours a day, often at work,
caused 6.9 percent of deaths. That was after controlling for
things such as obesity and physical activity. Other research has
determined that sitting or being sedentary most of the day can
raise the risk of  heart disease , obesity, diabetes and cancer,
as well as lower sperm count.  The doctors’ group also backed a  resolution  urging
lawmakers strengthen existing U.S. protections against
discrimination based on a person’s genetic information.  Current law doesn’t adequately bar discrimination by
disability insurance,  life insurance  or long-term care
insurance, the doctors said. As use of genetic information by
doctors becomes more common, patients will need stronger
protections, they said.  “Genomic medicine advancements are enabling better
individualized patient care, but it is important to make sure
that this unique personal information is not used against
patients,” William Kobler, a doctor and AMA board member, said
in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  