-- Draghi Says ECB Has ‘Open Mind’ on Non-Standard Measures
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-06-18T08:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/draghi-says-ecb-has-open-mind-on-non-standard-monetary-policy.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said the central bank is considering further non-standard monetary policy tools and will deploy them if
circumstances warrant.  “We will look with an open mind at these measures that are
especially effective in our institutional setup and that fall
within our mandate,” Draghi said today in a speech in
 Jerusalem . “Some of those measures may have unintended
consequences. This does not mean that they should not be used,
but it does mean that we need to be aware of those consequences
and manage them appropriately.”  Draghi has in recent months held out the possibility of
charging lenders to hold cash at the Frankfurt-based central
bank by introducing a negative deposit rate. The rate has been
at zero since July. That’s one of a range of tools, including
further long-term lending operations and adjusting collateral
requirements, that the ECB is mulling as the 17-member euro area
remains stuck in its longest-ever recession.  “There are numerous other measures – standard  interest
rate  policy and non-standard measures – that we can deploy and
that we will deploy if circumstances warrant,” Draghi said.  The euro fell as much as 0.3 percent to $1.3326 after
Draghi’s comments. It later reversed its decline to trade at
$1.339, up 0.2 percent, at 10:41 a.m. in  Frankfurt . The euro has
strengthened 1.5 percent against the dollar in 2013 and 4.5
percent, the most among 10 developed-market currencies,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Recovery Threat  The euro’s rise this year shows that some investors are
confident Draghi and government officials are doing enough to
hold the currency union together. It also threatens the ability
of member nations to export their way out of recession after six
quarters of economic contraction. While the ECB doesn’t target
the  exchange rate , Draghi has said that it is “important for
growth and price stability.”  Domestic demand in the euro area should benefit from the
ECB’s monetary policy,  lower inflation  and confidence as well as
wealth effects from gains in financial markets, Draghi said
today. The bank on May 2 cut its benchmark interest rate by a
quarter point to a record low of 0.5 percent  “The ECB’s Governing Council has stressed that monetary
policy will remain accommodative for as long as necessary and
let me say very clearly: we are far from any exits,” Draghi
said.  Save the Euro  The ECB President also reiterated the central bank’s
mission to save the common currency. Policy markers will do
“whatever it takes” to keep the euro, Draghi said today,
referring to his comments from a speech in  London  on July 26.  “In the period ahead, we will monitor very closely all
incoming information on economic and monetary developments and
stand ready to act if necessary,” he said.  The ECB’s Outright Monetary Transactions bond-purchasing
program, which has yet to be used, has caused a significant
decline in financial-market tension since its introduction last
year, according to Draghi.  In setting up a banking union, the European Union is moving
toward a longer-term solution to the crisis, he said, while
calling for further reforms by national governments.  The banking union “should provide an answer to many of the
challenges currently facing the euro area, including uneven
credit conditions and the fragmentation of financial markets,”
Draghi said. “Much work remains to be done for economic policy
makers across  Europe . Reforms need to continue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  