-- Draghi Loses War for Growth With Euro Beating Peers
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-06-18T12:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/draghi-loses-war-for-growth-with-euro-beating-peers.html
The euro has overtaken  Sweden ’s
krona as this year’s best performing major currency, revealing
how far European Central Bank President Mario Draghi is falling
behind his contemporaries in the foreign-exchange wars.  The euro has strengthened 4.6 percent in 2013, the most
among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes and outpacing the krona’s 3.1
percent gain. Strategists are raising their forecasts for the
17-nation currency, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While the gains show investors are confident that Draghi
and government officials are doing enough to hold the euro
region together, they threaten the ability of member nations to
export their way out of the longest recession on record. Goods
sold to countries outside the region fell 0.8 percent in the
first quarter from the previous three months, the European
Union’s statistics office said June 5.  “The euro is confounding all its critics once again,”
said David Bloom, the global head of currency strategy at HSBC
Holdings Plc in  London . With the threat of the ECB turning to
negative interest rates, “Draghi had a dabble in the war,”
though “everyone else is cutting rates or intervening, and
they’re all seeing their currencies weaken,” he said.  Raising Estimates  Strategists are having a hard time keeping up with the
gains. The composite estimate in a Bloomberg survey is for the
euro to end the first quarter of next year at $1.27. While
that’s below today’s level of $1.3352 as of 8:47 a.m. in New
York, it’s up from the forecast of $1.26 in May.  The euro touched a four-month high of $1.3390 last week,
and is about 10 percent above its lifetime average of $1.2141.
It’s 7.2 percent too strong against the dollar, based on an
index by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development in Paris that uses relative costs of goods and
services.  While Draghi cut the euro region’s  main interest rate  in
May to a record 0.5 percent and said policy makers were
considering a negative  deposit rate , the bond-buying program the
central bank unveiled in 2012 is yet to be activated. Draghi
said today that the central bank may use other tools.  “There are numerous other measures – standard interest
rate policy and non-standard measures – that we can deploy and
that we will deploy if circumstances warrant,” Draghi said in a
speech in  Jerusalem . “Monetary policy will remain accommodative
for as long as necessary.”  European banks have paid back about 300 billion euros of
the 1 trillion euros of three-year loans granted under its
Longer Term Refinancing Operations in 2011, leaving the
Frankfurt-based ECB’s balance sheet 18 percent smaller than at
its  peak  in June 2012.  Buying Bonds  The U.S. Federal Reserve is purchasing $85 billion of
Treasuries every month, boosting its balance sheet  assets  to
$3.41 trillion from about $2.91 trillion in September. The Bank
of Japan announced an unprecedented stimulus package this year
that includes a plan to double the nation’s monetary base in two
years, while the Bank of England has also bought debt.  The euro’s strength has made Stephen Jen, the managing
partner at SLJ Macro Partners LLP in London and the former head
of foreign-exchange strategy at Morgan Stanley, reluctant to
sell the currency, even though he thinks it should fall based on
the performance of the economy.  “The ECB has been harder to read than the Fed, the BOJ or
the BOE,” Jen said in an e-mailed response to questions. “The
euro is agitating to push lower, I believe. It’s been very hard
to trade.” Though a decline to $1.17 would represent a
“reasonable level” for the euro, Jen said he doubts “it will
fall that far.”  Shrinking Economy  Gross domestic product  fell  0.2 percent in the first
quarter, the EU’s statistics office in Luxembourg said on June
5. Investment as measured by gross fixed capital formation
dropped 1.6 percent, subtracting 0.3 percentage points off GDP.  Futures traders have decreased their bets that the euro
will decline against the U.S. dollar to the lowest level since
Feb. 19, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission released on June 14 showed.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those on a gain -- known as  net shorts  -- was 7,533 contracts,
compared with 51,621 a week earlier.  The shared currency also has been buoyed by gains in the
region’s government bonds from Spain to  Italy . The yield on
 Spain’s (GSPG10YR)  10-year bond fell to 3.94 percent on May 3, the lowest
since May 2010, from 5.27 percent at the end of last year.  Bond Rally  “As risky assets do well, the euro does well,” said Bill Street, the global co-head of active fixed income at State
Street Global Advisors, which oversees about $2 trillion in
assets. “Selling the euro was the classic de-risker, and this
has been unwound. The euro’s strength can continue.”  Much of the euro’s gains in 2013 have come this quarter,
with the  Bloomberg index  trading at 99.5227 today from 95.1156
at the end of March. This quarter would be the best for the
currency since the index jumped 7.9 percent in the final three
months of 2008.  The last time the currency appreciated for a full year was
also in 2008, when the  index  gained 10 percent to 118.8433.  While the economies of Italy and Spain have contracted
every quarter since the period ending September 2011, the
slowdown is  spreading  to richer countries such as  Germany ,
Europe’s largest economy.  The weak economy will weigh on the currency and force the
central bank to take more measures, according to Societe General
SA.  France ’s second-biggest bank recommends selling the shared
currency against the U.S. and Australian dollars.  “The rise in the euro isn’t welcome in an environment
where the economy is lagging,”  Vincent Chaigneau , the bank’s
global head of rates and foreign-exchange strategy in Paris,
said. “I don’t think it’s sustainable and, fundamentally, it
doesn’t make sense.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  