-- DreamWorks Animation CEO Says TV Will Give Revenue Boost
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-06-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/dreamworks-animation-ceo-says-tv-will-give-revenue-boost.html
DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , maker
of the “Madagascar” movies, will generate $100 million in TV
production revenue this year, Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Katzenberg said, lessening the company’s dependence on films.  That amount will increase to $200 million or more in 2015,
Katzenberg said yesterday on a conference call with investors
and reporters to discuss contracts the company has secured to
produce programs for  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the online video service, and
 Germany ’s Super RTL channel.  By expanding television production, Katzenberg is taking
steps to reduce the studio’s reliance on scoring hits with each
of its theatrical releases. DreamWorks Animation, which has
considered creating its own cartoon cable network, is now
focusing on Netflix’s growing subscriber base to deliver cash
and brand recognition for its properties.  “We are moving very aggressively into the TV business,”
Katzenberg said. “Television is a transformative line of
business and we expect going forward it will be a significant
source of revenue.”  The company will create a billion-dollar library of 1,200
TV episodes in the next five years, Katzenberg said. TV revenue
will result in a gross profit margin -- the percentage of
revenue after costs are deducted -- of about 30 percent,  similar 
to the company’s film business, he said.  The revenue projections from TV also exclude business from
potential merchandising, such as clothes and toys, said
Katzenberg.  Classic Characters  In the deal with Netflix announced on June 17, DreamWorks
Animation, based in Glendale,  California , will provide more than
300 hours of new programming, including shows inspired by
characters from its movies and its library of classic shows,
which include “The Lone Ranger.”  The agreement deepens ties between the companies. In
February, DreamWorks Animation agreed to create “Turbo:
F.A.S.T.,” a TV series for Netflix based on the studio’s
upcoming film “Turbo.” Netflix also signed an agreement in
2011 with DreamWorks Animation that gave it exclusive
distribution rights for first-run feature films.  DreamWorks Animation also announced yesterday that it will
sell half-hour children’s TV shows based on its films including
“How to Train Your Dragon” to Super RTL. The five-year
licensing agreement includes more than 1,100 half-hour episodes
for Cologne-based Super RTL, a children’s TV network. DreamWorks
Animation will begin delivering programs in September, the
company said.  Cable Network  The company’s shares climbed as much as 2 percent to $24.80
in extended trading yesterday, after gaining 2.4 percent to
$24.31 at the close in New York. The stock has climbed 47
percent this year.  DreamWorks Animation, which has previously licensed
programming to  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Nickelodeon and Time Warner Inc.’s
Cartoon Network, will focus on delivering animated series more
than creating a cable network of its own, which remains a future
possibility, Katzenberg said.  “To start a cable channel from scratch today, the barriers
to entry are very, very high,” Katzenberg said in a phone
interview yesterday following the conference call. “The success
of Netflix, the spectacular growth they have had and the strong
family audience there created this opportunity. We are more than
happy to be on someone else’s platform. There’s nothing wrong
with that.”  DreamWorks Animation in May agreed to acquire Awesomeness
TV, a popular teen network on Google Inc.’s YouTube, for $33
million in cash and as much as $117 million more through 2015 if
earnings targets are met. Last year it agreed to buy Classic
Media, owner of characters including “Casper the Friendly
Ghost,” and “Lassie,” for $155 million.  Classic Media will provide about $50 million in TV revenue
this year, Katzenberg said on the call yesterday. DreamWorks
Animation’s revenue last year was $749.8 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  