-- Duke Names CFO Good as Next Chief Executive Officer
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-06-18T20:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/duke-energy-names-chief-financial-officer-lynn-good-as-new-ceo.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  named Chief
Financial Officer Lynn Good to be its next chief executive
officer, replacing  Jim Rogers  who had agreed to retire as part
of a settlement with regulators probing the company’s $17.8
billion  Progress Energy  acquisition.  “Our unanimous support of Lynn as our next president and
CEO clearly demonstrates that the board is united in its vision
for the company and its confidence that Lynn is the best leader
to move Duke Energy forward,” board member Jim Hyler said in a
statement today. Rogers has been chairman and CEO of Duke for
seven years.  Rogers, 65, agreed in November to step down as head of the
largest U.S. utility owner at the end of this year under a
settlement with state regulators investigating a leadership
change after Charlotte, North Carolina-based Duke’s purchase
last year of Progress Energy. Hours after losing his role as
CEO, Rogers was reinstated as head of the merged companies after
a Duke-majority board voted to remove Progress’s  Bill Johnson .  “This pretty much cements Duke control over the company,”
Gregory Phelps, who manages $5 billion at Manulife Asset
Management US LLC in Boston and owns Duke shares, said today in
an interview. “I see Jim Rogers’s hand in this.”  Rogers didn’t participate in the selection process,  Tom Williams , a Duke spokesman, said in a phone interview. A search
committee comprised of four legacy Progress directors, four
legacy Duke directors and John T. Herron, appointed March 1,
voted to promote Good on June 12, he said.  Inward Focus  Good, 54, is the first female to be named CEO of Duke,
which began generating power for a South Carolina cotton mill in
1904, according to the company’s website. Duke will be the
largest U.S. energy company and the sixth-largest company by
market value on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to have a female
CEO, after International Business Machines Corp.,  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ,
 Mondelez International Inc. (MDLZ) , DuPont Co. and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   Duke rose 0.9 percent to $68.23 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 6.9 percent this year.  Good will take over on July 1. She has been CFO since July
2009 and joined a Duke predecessor company in 2003 after working
at  Deloitte & Touche LLP  and Arthur Andersen LLP.  “I’ll be more internally focused” than Rogers, who often
speaks on national and international policy, Good said today in
an phone interview. Work remains to win rate cases, finish some
new plants, and complete the integration of Duke and Progress,
she said today.  ‘New Normal’  As CFO, Good told investors in November that slow growth in
electricity use, 1 percent or less annually, may be the “new
normal” for Duke. As a result, the utility owner will focus on
cost cutting, she said.  Rogers will continue as chairman until the end of the year.
The board plans to decide on a chairman-elect from among its
independent directors in “the coming weeks,” and that person
will take over as chairman on Jan. 1, the company said.  Rogers took over as CEO of Duke in 2006, after the company
bought Ohio-based Cinergy, where he’d served for 11 years as
chairman and CEO. Duke supplies power to about 7.2 million U.S.
customers and owns utilities in six U.S. states. It also has
 power plants  in seven Latin American countries.  The company opted in February to permanently shut the
Crystal River nuclear power plant in  Florida  after deciding the
risks and costs of fixing the reactor outweighed the benefits.
Earlier this month, it began operations at the Edwardsport power
plant in  Indiana , a $3.2 billion coal-gasification project that
was delayed and over-budget.  “It’s not a bad choice,” Julien Dumoulin-Smith, a New
York-based analyst for UBS Securities LLC who rates Duke a buy
and doesn’t own the stock, said today in phone interview.
“Looking internally is always a favorable outcome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  