-- Health Law Allies to Focus on Uninsured in 18 States
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-06-18T18:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/health-law-allies-to-focus-on-uninsured-in-18-states.html
Supporters of the Affordable Care
Act said they’ll debut a campaign this week in 18 U.S. states to
promote a law still poorly understood by those designed to
benefit most.  Enroll America, a Washington-based nonprofit group, said it
will hold 50 community events to kick off the effort in states
with high numbers of uninsured residents, from  California  to
 Texas  to  Florida . An advertising campaign will follow as the law
approaches the Oct. 1 opening of enrollment for subsidized
insurance plans.  “There are millions of Americans without health insurance
today,” Anne Filipic, the group’s president, told reporters
today on a conference call. “We know if they don’t know about
it, they won’t enroll, and that is where we come in.”  About 7 million Americans are expected to buy coverage next
year through new online markets, called exchanges, according to
congressional estimates. Still, Republican critics continue to
attack the law and surveys suggest few of the potential
customers understand its provisions. An Enroll America poll
earlier this year found 78 percent of those without health
insurance don’t know about the law, Filipic said.  The lack of awareness has prompted anxiety among the law’s
backers. In April, Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, said
he feared a “train wreck” if the Obama administration didn’t
improve its outreach efforts. Organizing for Action, an advocacy
group born from the president’s campaign arm, introduced a
 television ad  yesterday as part of a “seven-figure” media buy
to spread the word.  Grassroots Effort  In an interview last month, Filipic, a former aide to
President  Barack Obama , said her group was creating a computer
model of the nation’s uninsured and using the information to
better target an organizing effort by local volunteers.  Kathleen Sebelius , the U.S. health secretary, drew
criticism from Republicans in Congress last month after she said
she had contacted health-care companies she regulates about
supporting the enrollment effort.  Filipic today declined to comment about specific goals of
the campaign, saying only that the organization would work with
local partners to mobilize thousands of volunteers to reach out
to the uninsured. She also declined to discuss the campaign’s
budget or fundraising goals. “We feel really good about having
the resources we need,” she said.  The campaign, called Get Covered America, will also work
with health-industry partners, Filipic said. The group’s
 advisers  include insurer  Kaiser Permanente  and drugstore chain
 CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  Enroll America is working with hospitals, for
example, to ensure their employees can answer questions if
patients want to enroll, Filipic said.  “We know that this is a personal issue to folks, an
overwhelming issue for many folks,” she said. “So we need to
think about how do we make this as easy as possible for
consumers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  