-- Heat Forecast to Build Next Week Across Northern U.S.
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-06-18T10:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/heat-forecast-to-build-next-week-across-northern-u-s-.html
Much of the northern U.S. and
southern  Canada  are expected to have warmer-than-normal weather
next week, said Matt Rogers, president of Commodity Weather
Group LLC.  Temperatures from central Oregon and California to Maine
and the Canadian Maritimes are expected to reach at least 3
degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 Celsius) above the norm from June 23 to
27, said Rogers, who’s based in Bethesda,  Maryland .  The area from Nevada to Kansas and Nebraska and the region
from around the Great Lakes into southern Ontario and  Quebec  may
reach 5 degrees higher than normal.  “The models show a decent heat event setting up, but there
is still the risk of offsetting showers and storms,” Rogers
said in a note to clients.  Above-average temperatures in large population areas of the
East and Midwest can spur natural gas demand as more people turn
to air conditioners to keep cool. Power plants will account for
32 percent of U.S. gas consumption this year, Energy Information
Administration data show.  Rogers said at least one computer model calls for the heat
across the northern U.S. to continue to July 2. He said he isn’t
ready to endorse that and expects the eastern U.S. and Canada to
have seasonal temperatures.  The region from  Chicago  to the west, not including Texas
and Oklahoma, will probably be 3 to 5 degrees warmer than normal
during that time, he said. A pocket in the Pacific Northwest may
reach 8 degrees above normal.  The normal average temperature on June 26 in  New York  City
is about 75 degrees, according to  MDA Weather Services  in
Gaithersburg, Maryland. In  Boston , it’s 71; in Chicago, 73; in
Houston, 84; in St. Louis, 79; and in Burbank, California, 72.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  