-- Legendary in Talks With ‘Everybody’ for New Movie Deal
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-06-18T21:50:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/legendary-entertainment-in-talks-with-everybody-on-movie-deal.html
Legendary Entertainment, the company
that co-financed “Man of Steel” and the “Dark Knight”
movies, is talking to “everybody” in Hollywood about a new
production alliance, including incumbent  Warner Bros .  The company, led by founder and Chief Executive Officer
Thomas Tull, expects to reach a decision in 60 days, Tull told
reporters today in  Los Angeles . The Burbank, California-based
company yesterday hired Bruce Rosenblum, Warner Bros.’ former
head of television, to lead its TV and digital media operations.  Tull, known mostly for financing and co-producing pictures
for Warner, has been trying to establish an independent identity
as a filmmaker. The company produced “42,” the Jackie Robinson
movie biography, and “Pacific Rim,” a big-budget science-fiction feature that arrives in theaters on July 12. In May,
Legendary agreed to make movies with China Film Co. to gain a
foothold in the second-largest cinema market.  “For us it’s really about the company that we want to
build and what could be the best place for us to fulfill that
vision,” Tull said. “It’s a process that’s pretty big in scope
and we want to make sure we put ourselves in the right
position.”  Legendary’s current deal with  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s film
division expires in December. Tull has had a tense relationship
with Jeff Robinov, who heads Warner Bros.’ film studio, people
with knowledge of the situation said earlier this year.  Tull said today that he gets along well with new Warner
Bros. Chief Executive Officer Kevin Tsujihara. Tsujihara,
Rosenblum and Robinov were rivals to replace Barry Meyer as CEO
in March. Meyer remains chairman of the studio.  ‘Straight Shooter’  “He’s a straight shooter,” Tull said of Tsujihara. “He’s
honest and he will look you in the eye, and that’s all you can
ask for. From my perspective Warner Bros., whether we’re there
or not, has a bright future under his leadership.”  Tull responded to questions after showing footage and
briefing journalists on new film projects, including the special
effects-heavy “Pacific Rim,” about a struggle between humans
and a race of giant, lizard-like aliens. Director Guillermo del Toro joined the briefing, saying he wanted to make a big action
film without political overtones.  “I didn’t want to make a war movie,” he said. “I didn’t
want a dystopian future.”  The agreement between Legendary East and China Film Co.
will be “impactful and meaningful,” Tull said. China Film is a
unit of government-backed China Film Group, the country’s
largest film producer and distributor.  “We’ll wait and see how this unfolds but it’s an important
place for growth for us,” Tull said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  