-- Egypt’s Black-Market Dollar Rate Jumps on Short Supply, Unrest
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-06-18T12:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/egypt-s-black-market-dollar-rate-jumps-on-short-supply-unrest.html
Egyptian black-market currency
dealers raised their dollar rates as demand for the U.S.
currency increases in the run up to nationwide protests planned
for later this month.  The dollar is selling for 7.57 pounds in unregulated
trading, an 8.3 percent premium over the official price,
according to the average of three quotes from dealers in Cairo,
who asked not to be identified because the trade is illegal.
That’s the highest since Bloomberg started the weekly surveys on
May 21. Last week, the black-market rate was 7.46 pounds, or a
6.7 percent premium.  The supply of dollars on the parallel market has fallen as
demand grows before pro- and anti-government activists start
nationwide demonstrations June 30, the anniversary of the day
Islamist President Mohamed Mursi took office last year. The
central bank has curtailed the pound’s decline in the past month
after the currency plunged more than 11 percent since Dec. 30,
when the regulator started dollar auctions to ration supply.  “It’s normal for the spread to increase as demand from the
retail segment rises amid instability ahead of planned
protests,”  Mona Mansour , head of research at Cairo-based CI
Capital, said by phone. “We may see the unofficial rate decline
if the central bank offers another exceptional FX sale this
month.”  Dollar Auctions  The central bank started auctioning the U.S. currency after
its foreign reserves fell by more than half since the start of
the revolt that ousted  Hosni Mubarak  in 2011. Those sales
typically take place three times a week, and the regulator has
also held exceptional currency auctions to provide banks with
dollars to cover imports of basic commodities. The extra funds
helped narrow the black-market premium from as much as 15
percent in early April.  The pound weakened 0.3 percent in past month to 6.9957 a
dollar as of 1:22 p.m. in Cairo, according prices compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with an average 1.2 percent monthly
decline from February to April, the first three months of
Central Bank Governor Hisham Ramez’s tenure.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards for the pound traded
at 8.45 a dollar today, reflecting investor expectations for the
currency to lose 17 percent in the period.  The yield on the government’s $1 billion of benchmark 5.75
percent Eurobonds maturing in 2020 was little changed at 8.64
percent, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. It has
increased 60 basis points, or 0.6 of a percentage point, this
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  