-- Telecom Italia Said to Face Regulatory Concern on Tariff Request
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-06-18T10:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/telecom-italia-said-to-face-regulatory-concern-on-tariff-request.html
Italy’s telecommunications authority
may oppose  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s efforts to keep the rate it
charges competitors for grid access once the company spins off
the fixed-line network, according to two people familiar with
the situation.  The Rome-based regulator, known as Agcom, is concerned that
Telecom Italia’s informal request to maintain the same pricing
for renting “last-mile” access to the copper-wire network is
unjustified, said to the people, who asked not to be named
because the discussions are private.  The regulatory commission will meet Thursday for an initial
review of Telecom Italia’s request to keep its monthly rate of
9.28 euros ($12.42) for operators who want access to the
network, according to the people. The regulator has held public
hearings on its proposal for a lower monthly rate of between
8.62 euros and 9.25 euros, they said.  Telecom Italia has argued that a less rigid regulatory
stance on its spinoff plan is crucial for its success. The
company’s directors on May 30 approved a plan to separate the
network, setting a precedent for  Europe ’s indebted phone
companies as they look for new ways to raise funds and bargain
for lighter regulations.  Telecom Italia’s fixed-line competitors, including Wind SpA
and Fastweb SpA, are pressuring the regulator to cut the monthly
access fee by at least 1 euro, according to a third person
familiar with the matter.  Agcom may consider allowing a gradual reduction of its
rules governing Telecom Italia’s new access unit from 2014 to
2016, said one of the people. That would hinge on the phone
company agreeing to give all competitors equal access to the
network, the person said. Representatives for Agcom and Telecom
Italia declined to comment.  Italy’s competition regulator on May 10 fined Telecom
Italia about 104 million euros for abusing its dominant position
in network infrastructure. The company is appealing the
decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  