-- Emerging-Market Stocks Drop on Fed as Currencies Tumble
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-06-18T21:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/emerging-stocks-drop-on-stimulus-concern-as-philippines-rallies.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, led by
Thai and Turkish shares, as concern grew that the  Federal
Reserve  will signal reduction in stimulus.  India ’s rupee and
 Russia ’s ruble paced losses among developing-nation currencies.  Siam Commercial Bank Pcl and  PTT Pcl (PTT)  led declines in
Bangkok on speculation overseas investors may add to the biggest
monthly net sales in almost two years.  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings
Ltd. (3800)  plunged after a unit of China Investment Corp. sold 1.2
billion shares.  Turkey ’s shares tumbled as the central bank kept
its benchmark rate unchanged amid unrest.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa
stock index climbed for the first time in three sessions, led by
companies controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista .  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index retreated 0.4 percent to
953.54, extending this month’s decline to 5.5 percent. The
 Federal Open Market Committee  starts a two-day policy meeting
almost a month after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said policy
makers could scale back stimulus efforts if the employment
outlook showed “sustainable improvement.”  “Emerging markets haven’t liked the taper talk,” Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at Oberweis Asset Management Inc., which
manages $700 million in assets, said in a telephone interview
from Lisle,  Illinois . “Whatever they say could drive the
markets in the immediate term.”  Seven out of  10 groups  in the emerging-market index fell
today as consumer staple and health-care shares had the biggest
losses. The broad measure has lost 9.6 percent this year,
compared with an 11 percent advance in the MSCI World Index of
developed-country stocks.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund rose 0.4 percent to $39.84. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
slid 4 percent to 26.19.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  gained 0.8 percent led by oil company OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, which surged 12 percent. Miner
MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA and port developer LLX Logistica SA
added at least 6.4 percent. The real touched a four-year low,
prompting the central bank to intervene.  Russia’s Micex Index added 0.7 percent as  OAO Rostelecom (RTKM) 
rallied after Sberbank CIB recommended buying the stock, citing
its slump this year. The shares have lost 19 percent in Moscow
since the end of 2012. The ruble sank the most in two months as
oil fell and investors bet on declines after the Finance
Minister supported a weaker currency.  Turkish Shares  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  and Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS
paced losses in Istanbul. The central bank had been cutting
rates this year to spur a slowing economy and prevent capital
inflows from strengthening the lira. The bank made no reference
in its statement today to the protests that have engulfed
Istanbul and other cities in the past three weeks, leading
business and tourism groups to warn of risks to the economy.  India’s rupee dropped the most in a week, while the  S&P BSE
Sensex (SENSEX)  ended a two-day advance. Oil & Natural Gas Corp., the
nation’s largest explorer, fell to a two-month low.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.1 percent after a unit
of nation’s sovereign wealth fund boosted its stakes in the
biggest lenders.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd .
added 1 percent. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index
retreated, while GCL-Poly sank 12 percent, the biggest decline
since October 2011.  Thai’s SET Index slid 3 percent, the steepest loss in a
week. Siam Commercial Bank, the nation’s third-biggest lender by
total assets, and PTT were the biggest drags on the index.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 320 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  