-- Tequila Crisis Lessons Learned Before QE Unwind: Mexico Credit
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-06-18T15:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/tequila-crisis-lessons-learned-before-qe-unwind-mexico-credit.html
Mexico  is proving to be one of the
least-vulnerable countries to an increase in global  interest
rates  by boosting the average maturity of its bonds to the
highest of Latin America’s biggest economies.  The Mexican government has an average of 8.25 years to pay
its $158 billion of peso debt, longer than Brazil,  Argentina ,
 Colombia  and  Venezuela  and more than developed nations including
the U.S.,  Canada  and  Switzerland , data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Its debt maturity is now 14 times longer than the average
of about seven months in 1994, when U.S. rate increases helped
spark a peso devaluation that fueled capital flight and caused
the so-called Tequila Crisis.  Mexico’s ability to extend maturities and lock in low rates
as central banks around the world suppressed borrowing costs
means the country is better able to withstand a jump in yields,
as speculation increases the  Federal Reserve  will pare its
unprecedented stimulus, Bank of America Corp. said. Eighty
percent of Mexico’s debt is in pesos, versus less than half in
1994, while the average coupon on the notes is 7.7 percent, the
lowest ever.  “They took advantage of the environment of low interest
rates,” Claudio Irigoyen, the head of Latin America fixed-income and foreign exchange strategy for Bank of America, said
in a telephone interview from New York. The mistake of the
Tequila Crisis “was to try to get cheap short-term financing in
dollars, and obviously that didn’t work.”  Yields Surge  Mexico has 200.6 billion pesos of bonds maturing this year,
equal to 11 percent of its outstanding debt.  A press official for the  Finance Ministry  declined to
comment on the nation’s debt profile.  Yields on Mexico’s benchmark peso bonds due in 2024 have
risen 60 basis points, or 0.60 percentage point, in the past
month and touched a six-month high of 5.56 percent June 10,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mexico’s 100-year
dollar-denominated bonds, the longest-dated  government
securities  in the world, have declined 12.04 cents on the dollar
in the past month, pushing up yields by 59 basis points to 5.58
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While investors have suffered losses in Mexico’s longer-dated debt, which is more sensitive than shorter-dated bonds
because they pay a larger number of coupons, the nation is
better shielded from the risk of refinancing at higher rates.  U.S. Maturities  “Extending maturities and making the average life of the
debt much longer always helps if you have any problems like we
saw in 2008 and the market closes,”  Henry Stipp , who oversees
$3 billion as co-head of emerging-market fixed-income at
Threadneedle Asset Management, said in a telephone interview
from  London . “It also helps the whole financial sector because
it’s easier for a local bank to lend money because they can
hedge themselves within the curve.”  The average  maturity  on  U.S. debt  is 5.4 years, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Roberto Ivan Garcia Castellanos, a bond trader at Casa de
Bolsa Finamex SAB, said that Mexico isn’t exempt from short-term
swings in borrowing costs.  “The volatility we’re seeing is global,” Garcia
Castellanos said in a telephone interview from Guadalajara,
Mexico. “The longer-dated your bonds are, the more your average
yields are going to rise.”  Default Swaps  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 200 basis points at 11:26 a.m. in
 New York , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps climbed four basis points
to 131 basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso fell 0.4 percent to 12.8878 per dollar. Yields on
interbank rate futures contracts due in December, known as TIIE,
rose one basis point yesterday to 4.31 percent.  Bank of America’s Irigoyen said longer maturities and
inflation that hasn’t exceeded 5 percent since 2009 are helping
limit increases in borrowing costs.  “They are extending maturities, they are keeping inflation
low, and therefore they can issue with low risk premiums in the
long end,” Irigoyen said. “They’re doing their homework.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  