-- Mercedes Sets Up New Sales-Support Unit for China Market
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2013-06-18T13:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/mercedes-sets-up-new-sales-support-unit-for-china-market.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz set up a
new sales-support unit for  China  and will step up the pace of
dealership openings this year in the world’s biggest car market
in a bid to catch rivals.  Sales Management China, based at Daimler’s headquarters in
Stuttgart, Germany, will coordinate marketing, sales and
training initiatives in China to support the local sales
organization, the company said today in a statement. Mercedes
will also add 75 new stores this year, including 36 in cities
where the brand hasn’t been present before.  “We have taken numerous measures for our Chinese business
in the past six months, and we’re keeping our foot on the gas,”
Hubertus Troska, who runs Daimler’s China operations, said in
the statement.  Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche ’s plan to retake the
top spot in the luxury-car industry has been hobbled by a
disjointed strategy in China. Two competing sales organizations
were merged in December, while Troska was appointed to the
management board to oversee the efforts. The expansion of sales
activities in China is aimed at supporting the introduction of
about 20 new or upgraded models there by 2015.  The reorganization has shown signs of helping. Mercedes
sales in China rose 6.5 percent in May to narrow the decline
through the first five months to 4 percent. Still,  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s deliveries climbed 15 percent in May and
sales of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi, China’s best-selling luxury
brand, jumped 16 percent.  Mercedes hired Benjamin Auer, a former sales manager for
Audi in China, to lead the new sales-support unit, which started
operating this month, according to Daimler.  The 75 new China dealers in 2013 outpaces the average
growth of 50 sales outlets a year, Daimler said. Mercedes had
260 stores in China at the end of 2012, trailing the more than
300 at BMW and Audi. Mercedes will also have seven training
centers in China, including the largest outside Germany, after
opening a planned facility in  Shanghai .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  