-- Erdogan Penalized at Bond Auction as Yields Surge: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-06-18T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/erdogan-penalized-at-bond-auction-as-yields-surge-turkey-credit.html
Turkey was forced to pay higher
borrowing costs in the first auction of debt since anti-government protests began more than two weeks ago.  The Treasury sold 742.3 million liras ($394.1 million) of
August 2014 zero-coupon notes yesterday at 6.76 percent, up from
5.07 percent at an auction of the same securities on May 21.
Credit-default swaps on Turkish debt has climbed 35 basis points
this month in the biggest increase among major emerging markets
in Europe, the Middle East,  Africa  and Asia.  Two-year note yields jumped 57 basis points yesterday after
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said he would empower police
“in every way” and not tolerate illegal protests as police
raided homes in Istanbul and Ankara, detaining dozens suspected
of violence. Yields also climbed as investors weighed whether
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will provide signals
today on when policy makers will scale-back stimulus.  “This means we should forget borrowing costs around 5.07
percent for a while,” Burak Cetinceker, a money manager at
Strateji Menkul Degerler in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments
yesterday. “We will price political risk even if tensions are
reduced for some time. If tensions linger on,  Turkey  will borrow
at even higher rates.”  Debt Sales  Turkey’s Treasury is scheduled to sell two-, five- and 10-year fixed-coupon debt, 10-year inflation-linked bonds and
seven-year floating-rate notes next week. The government is
seeking to raise 13 billion liras from the domestic market this
month, according to plans announced May 31.  The lira weakened 0.6 percent to 1.8848 per dollar at 5:15
p.m. in Istanbul yesterday, extending losses in the past month
to 2.3 percent. The cost to protect against default on Turkish
debt rose 10 basis points to 165 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts, which rise as perceptions
of creditworthiness deteriorate, pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities should a government or
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Protests against government plans to redevelop Gezi Park
near Taksim Square in Istanbul escalated at the end of May into
the biggest wave of unrest facing Erdogan since he came to power
in 2003. Police drove protesters from the park and square last
weekend, and state-run TRT television reported authorities
detained more than 80 people in raids yesterday.  ‘Nothing Solved’  “Investors don’t like political problems and it’s clear
that nothing has been solved yet, especially since there is no
real communication between the different parties,” Helena Clijsters, who helps oversee about $700 million in emerging-market debt at Dexia Asset Management in Brussels, said in e-mailed comments yesterday. “Investors probably prefer to remain
sidelined until the situation is a bit more clear.”  Yields on two-year notes rose to 6.81 percent yesterday,
extending the advance to 202 basis points, or 2.02 percentage
points, from a record low on May 17. A day earlier, Moody’s
Investors Service raised Turkey’s credit rating to investment
grade. Even after the jump in yields, the rate is down 231 basis
points in the past year, the biggest decline among  emerging
markets .  “The Turkish picture was misrepresented during the hype of
the upgrade,” Jack Arnoff, a partner at Elbrus Capital Partners
LLP in  London , said in e-mailed comments yesterday. “The risk
estimates are becoming more realistic -- current account, growth
and the political divisions.”  Rising Costs  Turkey’s central bank raised the weighted-average cost of
funding for lenders to 5.10 percent on June 17 from its record
low of 4.52 percent on May 31. It sold $250 million on June 11
as the lira reached its weakest level since 2011, and said
“additional tightening” would be used to support the currency.  “The short part of the yield curve is more sensitive to
the central bank’s tightening and investors are shunning debt at
these maturities for some time,” Tufan Comert, a strategist at
Garanti Securities in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments
yesterday. “The maturities will not attract investors unless
the central bank increases funding.”  Turkey’s central bank kept its three main interest rates
unchanged for the first time since August yesterday, citing a
“healthy” recovery in domestic demand, while exports remain
hobbled by a global slowdown. The decision matched the forecasts
of all economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Yield Spread  The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Turkish dollar
debt rather than U.S. Treasuries increased 10 basis points to
223 yesterday, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. That
compares with a three basis-point average advance to 319 for
emerging-market debt, the indexes show.  This week’s Fed policy meeting comes about a month after
Bernanke said quantitative easing could be scaled back if the
employment outlook showed sustainable improvement.  “It is definite that the cost of borrowing will be well
above last month in next week’s auctions,” Ugur Kucuk, a fixed-income strategist at Is Investment Securities, Turkey’s biggest
brokerage, said in e-mailed comments yesterday. “The cost will
rise further if the Fed says they are approaching the end of
asset purchases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  