-- Tesla Plans Model S Battery Swap as Fast Refueling Option
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-06-18T20:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/tesla-plans-model-s-battery-swap-as-fast-refueling-option.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , already adding a
network of fast-charging stations for its luxury electric cars,
is readying a service to rapidly swap a car’s battery with a
charged pack for added convenience.  The company, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , announced last
week plans for a June 20 press conference at its design studio
in Hawthorne, California, to show “a way for the Tesla Model S
to be recharged faster than you could fill a gas tank.”  Chief Executive Officer  Elon Musk , in a Twitter post today,
said the event would feature a “live pack swap” demonstration
at 8 p.m. California time on June 20. “Seeing is believing.”  The carmaker, which has more than tripled in market value
this year, is creating exclusive infrastructure for customers of
its all-electric sedan priced from $69,900. Tesla’s plans to
offer battery-swapping capability for the Model S may fare
better than a similar strategy by Better Place Inc., a provider
of electric car services that filed for bankruptcy this year.  “One of the problems with the Better Place model for
battery swapping was that it wasn’t cheap,” said Alan Baum, an
automotive analyst at Baum & Associates in West Bloomfield,
Michigan. Tesla has higher-income buyers, who are “likely more
willing to pay for a service like this that adds convenience.”  Better Place, also based in Palo Alto, offered charging
services and battery swapping for an electric  Renault SA (RNO)  model
at stations in Israel and Denmark. Better Place filed a motion
for liquidation with an Israeli court last month after failing
to attract new investments, according to a company statement.  ‘Always There’  Tesla didn’t provide details today on the battery swapping
service.  “Battery pack swap works with all Tesla Model S cars, past
and present,” Musk said in a later Twitter post. “It was
always there.”  The carmaker named for inventor  Nikola Tesla  said last
month it will triple the number of solar-powered supercharger
stations by the end of June to allow its customers to drive
cross-country.  Tesla rose 1.2 percent to $103.39 at the close in New York.
The shares surged have 205 percent this year, compared with a 16
percent increase for the Russell 1000 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  