-- Ethiopia Agrees With Egypt, Sudan to Study Nile-Dam Impact
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2013-06-18T09:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/ethiopia-egypt-sudan-plan-further-studies-on-nile-dam-impact.html
Ethiopia ,  Egypt  and  Sudan  agreed to
conduct further studies on what impact a hydropower dam on the
main tributary of the Nile River will have on downstream
countries, Egyptian Foreign Minister Mohamed Kamel Amr said.  Ethiopia also assured Egypt that the Grand Ethiopian
Renaissance Dam on the Blue Nile River is being built in a way
that will address Egypt’s water-security concerns, Ethiopian
Foreign Minister Tedros Adhanom said at a joint  press conference 
with Amr today in  Addis Ababa , the capital.  “We are embarking on a period of mutual cooperation,” Amr
said. “We’re looking to the future and I think the future will
be very good for both of us.”  Ethiopia is building the $4.3 billion, 6,000-megawatt dam
about 30 kilometers (18 miles) from the Sudanese border. The
facility is set to be  Africa ’s largest hydropower plant when it
is completed in 2017. A joint panel report finalized last month,
which hasn’t been made public, “didn’t clarify in detail the
impacts” the dam will have, according to the Egyptian
presidency.  The ministers agreed to “immediately initiate
consultations among Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan on how to move
forward” with recommendations, which included further studies,
made by the panel last month, they said in a statement handed to
reporters.  Friendly Talks  Talks were friendly and Egypt is convinced that Ethiopia is
“determined not to hurt” Egypt by blocking vital flows of the
Nile River, Amr said.  Ethiopia is the source of 86 percent of the water that
flows into the Nile, the world’s longest waterway, which Egypt
relies on for almost all its water.  The dam “will only reduce Nile water flow significantly
during the stage that the reservoir fills,” former U.S.
Ambassador to Ethiopia  David Shinn  said in a June 13 e-mailed
response to questions. The 74 billion cubic-meter dam will be
filled in about five to six years, according to Ethiopia’s
government.  Tedros will visit Egypt soon to continue discussions,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  