-- EU Carbon Market Needs Immediate Changes, Policy Exchange Says
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-06-18T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/eu-carbon-market-needs-immediate-changes-policy-exchange-says.html
Europe’s carbon emissions trading
system risks failing unless significant changes are made,
including an end to the bloc’s renewable energy target,
according to a paper published today by a U.K. research group.  The European Union’s emissions trading system, or ETS, is
on target to fall short of the region’s goal of cutting
greenhouse-gas discharges by 80 to 95 percent from 1990 levels
by 2050 unless the number of permits being handed out is
immediately reduced or steeper cuts are imposed after 2020,
according to the  Policy Exchange , a London-based research group.  Permit prices on the world’s largest carbon market have
plunged as much as 92 percent as an oversupply swelled to 1.8
billion metric tons, or 87 percent of the cap in 2012, according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Prices are too low to encourage
new investment in low-carbon power plants, according to Guy
Newey, one of the report’s authors.  “There’s no way you’d invest in carbon capture and storage
or renewable energy plant at the current price,” Newey said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “I’m not certain whether
the price is even strong enough to encourage switching from coal
to natural gas, which is the first thing you’d do.”  The paper recommended that the European Commission, the
market’s regulator, set a series of caps that reduce emissions
by 55 percent from 1990 levels by 2035, to give market
participants a longer-term indication of the bloc’s climate
ambition. The current target is a 21 percent cut by 2020.  Intervention Conditions  Policy Exchange also suggests that intervention in the
carbon market be allowed in three specific circumstances. An
independent advisory institution could be established to review
the system every two to three years and recommend changes to the
market, Newey said.  The specific circumstances in which the market could be
adjusted would include “when macroeconomic conditions change
significantly from what they were when the cap was set, if the
climate science changes, or if there is progress on an
international climate deal that would require the EU to take on
more ambition, or less,” Newey said.  Policy Exchange was founded by Michael Gove, Francis Maude
and Nicholas Boles, who are all now ministers in the U.K.’s
coalition government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  