-- EU Leaders to Affirm Bank Union Strategy to Break Crisis Cycle
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-06-18T11:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/eu-leaders-to-affirm-bank-union-strategy-to-break-crisis-cycle.html
European leaders next week will
affirm their aim to break the crisis-causing links between banks
and sovereign debt by centralizing bank oversight, while leaving
open how to resolve German reluctance on cost-sharing.  “In the short run, the key priority is to complete the
banking union” in line with previous commitments, according to
draft conclusions for the June 27-28 Brussels summit. Common
euro-area bank supervision, which the  European Central Bank  will
take up next year, needs to be accompanied by a common system
for dealing with failing banks that can prop them up or shut
them down as needed, according to the document obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  This single resolution mechanism “should include
appropriate funding arrangements, based on contributions by the
financial sector itself, and an appropriate and effective
backstop,” the June 17 draft states. EU leaders look forward to
a forthcoming European Commission proposal with an eye toward
reaching agreement among nations this year and with EU lawmakers
next year.  The leaders’ commitment contrasts with German and French
concerns about the pace of adopting a common backstop. A  joint
statement  released May 30 by  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and French
President  Francois Hollande  sought to delay plans to offer
direct bank aid from the euro-area’s firewall fund until all
other components of the resolution plan are in place.  Legal Foundations  Requiring lockstep moves could hamstring efforts to shore
up EU banking and prevent another crisis flareup, the Brussels-based European Commission warned in a report obtained by
Bloomberg News. That paper called for the EU to move ahead with
all components of the banking union plan as fast as it can,
saying that “concluding these steps should however not be
conditional on one another.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  has cautioned
that the EU’s bank-oversight strategy must not outstrip the
bloc’s legal foundations for joint action.  “The EU does not have coercive means to enforce decisions.
Its historical roots are young. Its democratic legitimacy could
be improved upon,” Schaeuble said on May 12. “What it has are
responsibilities and powers defined by its treaties. To take
them lightly, as is sometimes suggested, is to tamper with the
rule of law.”  The draft summit conclusions seek to reassure financial
markets that the EU hasn’t retreated from its financial
stability commitments. The document calls for banking union to
proceed in order to reduce financial fragmentation and restore
normal lending channels.  ‘Vicious Circle’  “The European Council recalls that it is imperative to
break the vicious circle between banks and sovereigns,” the
document states.  The leaders will also renew commitments to find ways to
boost employment while continuing budget consolidation. The
draft says leaders will scale back proposals for countries to
sign binding economic-reform contracts in exchange for European
financial support, saying further work is needed.  “Against the background of a weak short-term economic
outlook,  Europe  is facing unacceptably high levels of
unemployment, particularly for the young,” according to the
draft. “Immediate action must be taken in that respect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  