-- EU Lawmakers Probably to Back Carbon-Market Fix, Seeber Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-06-18T12:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/eu-parliament-probably-to-support-carbon-market-fix-seeber-says.html
The European Parliament will
probably back a restricted version of a rescue plan for the
European Union carbon market, according to Richard Seeber, a
senior member of the largest political group in the assembly.  The Parliament’s environment committee votes tomorrow on
the stopgap measure to help emission prices rebound from record
lows after the three biggest parties agreed on a compromise
version of the proposal. The whole Parliament, which in April
rejected the proposed intervention in the world’s biggest carbon
market, will decide again on the proposal two weeks later.  “There’s a view that we’ll get a majority for these
consolidated amendments, as we call them technically, so that
the environment committee can pass them,” Seeber, the speaker
of the European  People’s Party  on the panel, told reporters in
Brussels today. “The probability is quite high that we’ll get a
majority for that in plenary.”  EU carbon permits for delivery in December rose as much as
3.5 percent to 4.74 euros a metric ton following Seeber’s
comments, and were at 4.7 euros on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange as of 1:16 p.m. in  London .  The draft measure the Parliament is considering would
enable delaying auctions of some carbon permits to curb a record
glut of permits in the cap-and-trade program. The European
Commission’s plan postpone sales of 900 million permits from
2013-2015 to 2019-2020 has divided members of the assembly,
national governments and industry.  Economic Crisis  In the first vote on the proposal in April the Parliament
voted 334 to 315, with 63 abstentions, to reject the measure and
decided to send it to the environment panel for further talks.
The EPP voted 177 to 59, with 21 abstentions, against the market
fix amid concerns that it would undermine the competitiveness of
EU industry amid an economic crisis.  In the second round of talks the EPP, the Alliance of
Liberals and Democrats for  Europe , and the Socialists and
Democrats group agreed to restrict the proposal. Under the
compromise deal the postponed permits would return to the market
one year following the withdrawal of the last allowance. The
groups also agreed to restrict market intervention to a one-time
move and earmark 600 million of the delayed allowances for a
special fund for development of innovative technologies.  The three groups have 49 out of 69 members in the EU
assembly’s environment committee and 544 out of 754 votes in
plenary meetings. The Greens group, which has 58 members in the
assembly and supports the commission’s proposal, said it opposes
the restricted version of the carbon fix.  Backloading Proposal  The European Conservatives and Reformists group has
repeatedly said it will vote against backloading.  “There are certainly colleagues in our group as well as in
the Socialists group as well as in the Liberals who will vote
against, but if you do the calculations I’d say the probability
that it will pass this time is pretty high,” Seeber said.  The EPP members of the environment committee will hold a
preparatory meeting to decide about their position on the
compromise carbon fix proposal tonight, according to Corien
Wortmann-Kool, vice chairwoman of the group responsible for
economy and environment.  In the next step, the EPP will discuss the group’s position
a week before the plenary vote, in line with usual procedures,
she said. The temporary supply curbs are the first step toward a
deeper overhaul of the cap-and-trade program, according to the
commission.  ‘Energy-Intensive Industry’  “For the EPP a key issue is, both in the backloading and
in structural reforms, that we want to keep the energy-intensive
industry protected in Europe,” Wortmann-Kool said. “It has to
be possible in the future that they can be competitive at the
world level.”  A vote in favor of the proposed market fix in the plenary
vote would authorize Matthias Groote, the German Socialist
lawmaker in charge of the measure in the assembly, to start
talks with representatives of national governments on the final
wording of the legislation. The outcome of the talks will need
official approval by the Parliament and EU ministers.  In the second stage of the regulatory process, member
states will decide on the details of backloading in a separate
regulation, which will set the volume of allowances to be
postponed and timeline of auction delays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  