-- Ex-Systemax Unit President Indicted in Bribery Case
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-06-18T23:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/ex-systemax-unit-president-indicted-in-bribery-case.html
The former president of a  Systemax
Inc. (SYX)  electronics sales unit was indicted on charges that he took
bribes in exchange for steering more than $230 million in
business to suppliers.  Carl Fiorentino, 56, took more than $7 million from
companies in Taiwan and  California  from January 2003 to April
2011, the government alleged in a seven-count indictment
unsealed today in federal court in  Central Islip ,  New York .
Fiorentino used the money to pay for an $8 million home in  Coral
Gables ,  Florida , the services of a hip-hop music promotion
company and tennis lessons for his son, the U.S. alleged.  “Fiorentino had it all -- a lucrative job and a high-flying lifestyle,” Brooklyn U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch said in
a statement. “But as alleged in the indictment and court
papers, his loyalties were neither to his employer nor its
public shareholders but solely to himself.”  Formerly president of the Miami-based TigerDirect unit,
Fiorentino is charged with mail fraud,  wire fraud , money
laundering conspiracy and conspiracy to commit mail and wire
fraud. He faces a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison for
each charge, according to prosecutors.  Court Appearance  Silvia B. Pinera-Vazquez , his attorney, said Fiorentino
appeared today in federal court in Florida and was released on a
$1 million personal  surety bond . He is expected to appear in a
New York court next month, she said.  “He looks forward to his day in court,” Pinera-Vazquez
said in an interview.  Along with TigerDirect, Systemax, which is based in  Port
Washington , New York, owns assets of the CompUSA retail chain
and the e-commerce business of the former Circuit City.  Fiorentino was terminated by the company in April 2011, at
about the same time his brother, Gilbert Fiorentino, was placed
on administrative leave as chief executive officer of Systemax’s
technology products group. Gilbert Fiorentino resigned from the
company in May 2011, according to the firm.  The personnel changes came after an independent
investigation was completed of its Miami operations, according
to a May 2011 statement from the company. Gilbert Fiorentino
agreed to surrender $11 million in assets to the company, the
firm said.  Paid Penalty  In September 2012 Gilbert Fiorentino settled allegations
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that he
received $400,000 in undisclosed compensation from firms that
did business with Systemax and stole several hundred thousand
dollars’ worth of company merchandise, the SEC said.  He agreed to pay a $65,000 penalty without admitting or
denying the allegations, the SEC said.  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for Lynch, declined to comment
on whether Gilbert Fiorentino would be charged criminally,
citing an “active investigation.”  Daniel Gelber, a lawyer for Gilbert Fiorentino in the SEC
case, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Fiorentino, 13-cr-00338, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Central Islip).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  