-- Ex-UBS Trader Hayes Charged in U.K. Libor Fixing Probe
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-06-18T11:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/ex-ubs-trader-hayes-charged-in-u-k-libor-manipulation-probe.html
Tom Hayes, the former  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
Citigroup Inc. derivatives trader, was charged as part of the
U.K.’s investigation into manipulation of the London interbank
offered rate.  Hayes, 33, was charged with eight counts of conspiracy to
defraud at a central London police station today, the U.K.
Serious Fraud Office said in a statement. He will appear at a
London court on Thursday, said  David Jones , an SFO spokesman.  Hayes, a British national who worked in  Tokyo , was arrested
in the U.K. probe on Dec. 11 and charged by the U.S. Justice
Department the following day, along with one of his former co-workers from UBS. The U.S. charge was made public on Dec. 19,
the same day UBS was fined $1.5 billion by U.S., British and
Swiss regulators for trying to rig Libor and similar benchmarks.  Two employees of the brokerage RP Martin Holdings Ltd. were
arrested by  City of London  police in the same probe. Hayes, of
Surrey,  England , has been charged in the U.S. with  wire fraud 
and antitrust violations.  Hayes joined UBS in 2006 and worked at the Swiss lender
until 2009, when he joined  Citigroup. (C)  He was dismissed by
Citigroup less than a year later for involvement in suspected
rate-rigging, a person with knowledge of the matter said in
October. He worked at Edinburgh-based  RBS (RBS)  from 2001 to 2003.  Hayes’s London lawyer, Lydia Jonson, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone message and e-mail requesting comment.  Other Fines  Global regulators have fined UBS,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  about $2.5 billion in the past year
for distorting Libor and similar benchmarks. At least a dozen
firms remain under investigation around the world.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority said today it has followed
up with HSBC Holdings Plc and other banks to decide whether
there has been inappropriate conduct in their benchmark rate
submissions. Last week, Singapore’s monetary authority censured
20 banks for attempting to fix interest rate levels and ordered
them to set aside as much as $9.6 billion.  According to the U.S.  Justice Department , Hayes colluded
with brokers, counterparts at other firms and his colleagues to
manipulate the rate.  Yen Libor  Hayes “globally impacted transactions and financial
products tied to yen Libor,” defrauding counterparties
including New York-based financial institutions, the Justice
Department said last year. The trader led a “massive effort”
to manipulate yen Libor, at times daily, to profit from his bets
on derivatives, according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, which was one of the regulators that has levied
Libor fines.  He also allegedly worked with interdealer brokers to help
persuade other rate-setting banks to make favorable submissions.
Interdealer brokers line up buyers and sellers of securities and
take a percentage from every trade. As interbank lending
declined with the start of the financial crisis in late 2007,
submitters increasingly relied on information from the brokers
in determining what rates to submit, the Justice Department has
said.  More than $300 trillion of loans, financial products and
contracts are linked to Libor. Regulators are looking at how
derivative traders and bankers who submitted interest-rate data
colluded to ensure benchmarks benefited their own trades, and
whether lenders low-balled submissions in 2008 to hide their
true cost of borrowing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  