-- Tinkler Exits Whitehaven Stake as Magnate Battles Creditors
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-06-19T06:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/farallon-takes-part-of-tinkler-stake-in-whitehaven-buys-more.html
Former Australian billionaire Nathan Tinkler, who’s been battling creditors, sold his shares in
 Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) , with Farallon Capital Management LLC
paying A$301 million ($285 million) for more than half his stake.  Farallon paid A$2.96 a share for the 9.91 percent stake, a
40 percent premium to yesterday’s close, Tinkler Group said
today in an e-mailed statement. Farallon agreed to buy a further
1.63 percent, subject to regulatory approval. His remaining
shares were sold to other members of a syndicate of his lenders,
Whitehaven said in a statement, without identifying them.  Tinkler, an electrician-turned-entrepreneur, was ranked as
 Australia ’s youngest billionaire at the age of 35 by BRW
magazine in 2011 before a series of court cases and asset sales
combined to reduce his wealth. The transactions mean San
Francisco-based Farallon replaces Tinkler as Whitehaven’s
largest shareholder, his last major listed investment.  “ Nathan Tinkler ’s personal and financial problems are
well-documented and have also become a significant distraction
to the board,” Stan Shamu, a markets strategist at IG Markets
Ltd. in  Melbourne , said today by phone. “Investors will be glad
that uncertainty has been removed and that the distraction will
no longer be seen to have any impact on the performance of the
business.”  Whitehaven climbed 4.3 percent to close at A$2.20 in Sydney,
valuing it at A$2.3 billion. The stock has fallen 37 percent
this year as coal at the port of Newcastle, the Asian benchmark,
has dropped 8 percent.  Wife’s Allowance  Tinkler, who sold his house in 2006 to buy into a  coal mine ,
made a A$5.3 billion bid for Whitehaven last year, which
collapsed in August as coal prices fell. He testified in court
in March that he’s living on an allowance that he gets from his
wife who controls a A$1.4 billion trust.  “Farallon believes the current market price of Whitehaven
shares does not reflect the value of the company,” the U.S.
firm said in the statement. “The Farallon funds now have a
sizable investment in Whitehaven, and Farallon looks forward to
growth in  shareholder value  over time.”  Tinkler owed as much as $700 million to his backers
including Farallon, Credit Suisse Group AG and Kuok Group and
missed a $200 million payment in October, people familiar with
the matter said in November.  Farallon is an  investment adviser  that employs 160 people
in six offices in  London ,  Singapore ,  Hong Kong  and  Tokyo  and  Sao
Paulo , according to its  website . Farallon, which already owns
5.1 percent of Whitehaven, will end up with a 16.62 percent
stake subject to approvals.  Emotional Attachment  Tinkler, who held 19.4 percent of Whitehaven , according to
an October statement, said it was a difficult decision to sell
the stake due to his “emotional attachment” to the assets,
specifically the Maules Creek coal project in New South Wales
state.  “No longer being a substantial shareholder of Whitehaven
will benefit all existing shareholders,” Tinkler Group said.
While happy with the price, “we feel strongly that this still
significantly undervalues the company’s underlying asset base,”
it said.  Tinkler agreed this month to pay A$12 million to settle a
dispute with Blackwood Corp. over a failed share purchase. The
Blackwood liquidators applied on May 22 to freeze his assets,
including the Whitehaven stake and a family trust managed by his
wife.  Mirvac Group (MGR)  sued Tinkler companies Ocean Street Holdings
Pty and Buildev Group Pty for failing to complete a land
purchase north of Sydney. The Tinkler companies settled on Oct.
23 as a court hearing was due to begin, agreeing to pay Mirvac
A$16.6 million.  Singapore Move  Tinkler, who moved to Singapore last year, in April put up
for sale his Patinack Farm thoroughbred racing business,
including 1,000 racehorses, stallions and broodmares. He also
put his seven-bedroom Queensland mansion up for sale.  He gained his stake in Whitehaven after the coal producer
took over Tinkler’s Aston Resources Ltd. and other Tinkler
assets in a A$2.7 billion deal in 2011. Farallon owned 9.5
percent of Aston prior to the Whitehaven takeover, while Kuok
Group owned a 5.5 percent stake, according to an Aston
presentation in 2011.  Tinkler’s business journey began when he sold his house to
help buy the A$30 million Middlemount coal lease in Australia,
before selling it a year later to Macarthur Coal Ltd. for about
A$465 million. In May 2008 he sold his Macarthur stake to
 ArcelorMittal (MT)  and bought the Maules Creek mine from Rio Tinto
Group two years later. Tinkler made an initial public offering
of Aston Resources, containing Maules Creek, in August 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  