-- FBI Offers Reward for Information on 2008 New York Attack
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-06-18T21:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/fbi-announces-probe-of-small-nyc-bombings-dating-back-to-2005.html
The FBI is offering $65,000 for
information leading to the people responsible for a 2008 predawn
attack on a military recruiting center in New York’s Times
Square that may be connected to two unsolved bombings at
consulates in the city.  The Times Square attack took place early in the morning of
March 6, 2008. A bicyclist left an ammunition can half filled
with black powder -- a device “commonly found on the
battlefields of Iraq and  Afghanistan ” -- outside the center,
lit a fuse and rode away, the  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
said. The blue Ross bicycle was later found in a trash container
near Madison Avenue and 38th Street.  Nobody was hurt in the bombing, which punched a hole in the
center’s glass wall, although the attack could have caused
“significant casualties” if people were nearby, the FBI said.
Details of the attack are similar to two other unsolved
bombings, one at the British consulate in May 2005 and one at
the Mexican consulate in October 2007. No one was hurt in those
incidents.  More People  In all three incidents, the devices were delivered by a
person and detonated between 3 a.m. and 4 a.m., the FBI said.
The suspect on the bicycle in the Times Square attack appeared
to be working alone, although he may have had a surveillance
team of as many as five people in the area at the time, the FBI
said.  Someone riding a bicycle threw two small explosive devices
over a fence at the Mexican consulate, police said. In the
incident at a midtown office building that housed the British
consulate, explosives blew an hourglass-shaped hole in a glass
panel between two revolving doors, police said.  “Someone, somewhere, knows something about a bomber who’s
still on the run,” George Venizelos, assistant director-in-charge of the FBI’s  New York  office, said in a statement.  The suspect in the Times Square attack was last seen
wearing a gray sweatshirt and pants of an unknown color, and a
more detailed description couldn’t be provided, said the FBI,
which released  new video  of the suspect in the incident and a
picture of the device.  Grand Jury  A  Brooklyn , New York, man, Gerald Koch, was jailed last
month for refusing to testify before a federal grand jury
probing the Times Square attack, Susan V. Tipograph, his
attorney, said in a telephone interview.  Koch, who isn’t a target of the grand jury probe and has
been offered immunity from prosecution, has declined to testify
since he was first subpoenaed in 2009, Tipograph said. U.S.
District Judge John F. Keenan in  Manhattan  on May 21 found Koch
in contempt and ordered him jailed, Tipograph said.  Koch, 24, is being held at the Metropolitan Correctional
Center, the federal jail in  Lower Manhattan , and the  Federal
Bureau  of Prisons lists his release date as “unknown.” Koch
went to jail as a “matter of principle” because he knows
nothing about the Times Square incident, Tipograph said.  “The government knows that he knows nothing about this
bombing,” Tipograph said in a telephone interview. “He didn’t
know it in 2009 and he doesn’t know it now.”  ‘No Recollection’  Koch, a former student at the New School, said in a
statement that the government told his lawyers in 2009 that
authorities believed Koch was in a bar in 2008 or 2009 where
another patron indicated “knowledge of who had committed the
bombing.”  Koch said he “had no recollection of any such incident”
and that the second subpoena is part of a “fishing expedition”
to gain information about his “personal beliefs and political
associations,” according to his statement, a copy of which is
posted on a  website  seeking support for Koch that describes him
as an “anarchist and legal activist.”  Koch said in his statement that he believes the grand
juries are being used to get information about his friends and
loved ones and activists for whom he has provided legal support.  “My decision to stay silent in defense of individual
agency will most likely result in incarceration for a period up
to 18 months,” Koch said in his  statement . “I accept this
recompense, understanding that in doing so I will reinforce a
tradition of defending individual rights in the face of state
repression.”  Julie Bolcer, a spokeswoman for the office of Manhattan
U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined to comment on Koch’s case.  The appeals case is U.S. v. Koch, 13-2271, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State  Supreme Court  at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  