-- FDA Investigating Lilly’s Zyprexa Injection After Two Die
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-06-18T20:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/fda-investigating-lilly-s-zyprexa-injection-after-two-die.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s injectable form of
the antipsychotic Zyprexa is being investigated by U.S.
regulators after two patients died three to four days after
receiving the drug.  The two patients, given intramuscular injections of Zyprexa
Relprevv, were later found to have very high levels of the drug
in their systems, which can cause delirium, cardiac arrest and
arrhythmias and coma or loss of consciousness, the  Food and Drug
Administration  said in a statement today. The agency isn’t
calling the deaths an overdose, and said the patients hadn’t
been given an inappropriate amount of the drug.  “Based on the information available to us, we are unable
to conclude whether the two deaths were related to
administration of Zyprexa Relprevv,” Morry Smulevitz, a
spokesman for Indianapolis-based Lilly, said in an e-mail.
“However, we are continuing to evaluate this important safety
issue and will communicate any clinically significant safety
information that affects the product.”  Zyprexa is used for the treatment of aggression,
depression, manic episodes, schizophrenia and bipolar disorders.
The pill form of the drug lost patent protection in 2011, while
the injectable version has no generic competition.  Zyprexa generated $1.7 billion in  revenue  for Lilly last
year, and sales peaked in 2010 at $5.03 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Zyprexa Relprevv sold less than $60
million in 2012, according to Smulevitz.  The FDA investigation relates only to the injectable
version.  Patients who get the injections are supposed to be watched
for three hours afterward. Administration of the drug is tightly
controlled, and doctors, patients and health facilities have to
be approved before being allowed to use it.  Lilly  shares  fell less than 1 percent to $52.35 at 4 p.m.
 New York  time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  