-- Feingold Named U.S. Special Envoy to Africa’s Great Lakes
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-06-18T16:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/feingold-named-u-s-special-envoy-to-africa-s-great-lakes.html
Secretary of State  John Kerry  said
that he is appointing former Wisconsin Senator  Russ Feingold  as
the U.S. special envoy to  Africa ’s Great Lakes region.  “The suffering in the Great Lakes region of Africa and the
ongoing crisis in the east part of the  Democratic Republic  of
Congo troubles all of us greatly,” Kerry said today in making
the announcement. “The stakes in this part of the world,”
Kerry said, “are very significant.”  The new post for Feingold, a Democrat, will focus in large
part on conflict-torn and resource-rich Congo, an area almost
the size of Western Europe that produces about half the world’s
cobalt, used in rechargeable batteries, and about 3 percent of
its copper.  Despite an official end to conflict there in 2003, the
country has struggled to subdue rebel groups and control border
regions such as eastern Congo, an area rich in tin, gold and
coltan, an ore used in electronics. The Congolese government and
rebels have been negotiating in  Uganda  since December under a
United Nations peace framework.  Kerry and Feingold were colleagues in the Senate for 18
years and served together on the Foreign Relations Committee,
where Feingold was chairman of the subcommittee on Africa.
Describing Feingold as “the Senate’s leading advocate and
expert on Africa,” Kerry said the new envoy will focus on
cross-border security, political and economic development,
dealing with rebel groups, and the need to build confidence and
capacity, Kerry said.  Feingold said in a statement that “people in the region
have arrived at a time of significant opportunity for peace.”  The appointment of former Irish President Mary Robinson as
a United Nations special envoy to the region, and a February
2013 agreement on a framework for peace and cooperation “have
brought a renewed focus to the causes of instability in the
region, and created an historic opportunity for this important,
but challenged, region of Africa,” Feingold said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  