-- Fewer Workers File Disability Claims as Economy Improves
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2013-06-18T12:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/fewer-workers-file-disability-claims-as-economy-improves.html
The number of U.S. workers filing
long-term disability claims declined for the first time in at
least four years in 2012 amid an improving economy and
employment picture.  About 662,000 workers filed claims, a 2 percent decline
from a year earlier, the  Council for Disability Awareness  said
in a report based on data from 2008 through 2012. Still, total
claims payments grew to $9.4 billion in 2012, the fifth straight
year of increases, the CDA said in its report, scheduled for
release today.  “Claims are improving,” Barry Lundquist, CDA president,
said in a telephone interview. “ Consumer confidence  levels are
higher. The employment rate is improving. People have better
opportunities to go back to work, and that’s an important part
of the services insurance companies help provide.”  The  U.S. unemployment rate  hit a four-year-low of 7.5
percent in April before rising to 7.6 percent last month.
Household wealth jumped to a record in the first quarter,
exceeding its pre-recession peak for the first time, the  Federal
Reserve  said on June 6.  Workers 50 and older have been driving new claims as the
population ages, the council said in its report. Lundquist said
insurers’ back-to-work efforts and employers’ wellness programs
are helping workers return to the job faster.  “The longer you’re away, the harder it is to get back
physically and mentally,” he said. “It’s a way-overlooked side
benefit to disability insurance.”  CDA’s members include insurers  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) ,  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  Nineteen member
companies representing more than 75 percent of the disability-insurance market contributed claims data for the survey, CDA
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in San Francisco at 
 kchaykowski2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  