-- FIFA Logs Seven More Brazil Soccer Trades Seen as Irregular
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-06-18T14:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/fifa-logs-seven-more-brazil-soccer-trades-seen-as-irregular.html
FIFA  logged seven transfer payments
this year to second-tier Uruguayan soccer clubs for Brazilian
players who never appeared for them, as the soccer ruling body
studies whether to ban the tax-avoiding arrangements that date
back to the 1990s.  FIFA recorded the payments by teams including  Brazil ’s
Fluminense and Zhejiang Greentown of  China  on its so-called
 Transfer Matching System , according to data published on the
 Uruguayan soccer federation website  on March 18. The players
include strikers Ciro Henrique Alves, 24, and Renato Carlos
Martins, 26, the data show.  Such arrangements, which have involved at least $56 million
of transfers since 1999 according to Bloomberg News
calculations, allow investors in player transfer rights to
structure trades more beneficially. The deals comply with FIFA
rules, Fernando Sobral, the treasurer of the Uruguayan soccer
federation, said by phone, adding it has received no
communication from FIFA about ending the practice.  FIFA said in an e-mail it is looking into the so-called
“bridge” transfers and declined to comment further. The amount
paid for the transfer of the seven Brazilians wasn’t shown by
the Uruguayan soccer federation.  Brazilian teams and investors move athlete registrations
through Uruguayan clubs to reduce tax on the trades to as little
as 5 percent from 20 percent, said  Rodrigo Garcia , a lawyer at
Laffer Abogados in Madrid who has advised teams on such deals.  Brazil’s sports minister Aldo Rebelo said in August last
year that FIFA should end the so-called “ghost” transfers
through Uruguayan clubs including Club Atletico Rentistas and
 Deportivo Maldonado .  Monthly Fee  Rentistas gets a monthly fee to register the Brazilian
players and is not breaking any rules, the Montevideo-based
club’s president Mario Bursztyn said in an interview last year.
Maldonado officials declined to comment.  Argentine players are also being traded via clubs in  Chile 
for which they never appear, according to Ricardo Echegaray,
head of  Argentina ’s tax agency. Echegaray told a June 14 news
conference that team directors have allowed Argentine clubs to
become impoverished by the use of the practice.  Cash-strapped teams sometimes sell a portion of a player’s
transfer rights to investors to raise money.  “They’ve acted so irregularly and with such impunity for
so much time that they haven’t even bothered to tell the
players” which organization owns their transfer rights,
Echegaray told reporters, according to a recording of the news
conference on the agency website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid  at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  