-- IRS Scandal’s Origins Become Clearer Amid Other Questions
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-06-19T18:24:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/first-tea-party-case-labeled-high-profile-irs-manager.html
Internal Revenue Service employees
flagged a  Tea Party  case to their bosses in 2010 because they
thought it might receive media attention. They couldn’t have
known just how right they would be.  The IRS didn’t turn that concern in its Cincinnati office
into an efficient process for handling the applications by
politically oriented nonprofit groups for tax-exempt status,
agency officials say. Instead, the case ballooned into a
controversy that has led to resignations, congressional
inquiries and a criminal probe.  The origin of the U.S. tax agency’s scrutiny of small-government groups is becoming clearer as lawmakers release
transcribed interviews with IRS workers. The latest came
yesterday, when Democrats posted the text of congressional
investigators’ meeting with John Shafer, a screening manager
based in Cincinnati.  What’s less clear is exactly why the groups’ applications
were delayed for so long, why the IRS couldn’t come up with
clear rules and why senior executives didn’t tell interested
lawmakers about concerns earlier.  “We’re still early in that process,” said Representative
Charles Boustany, a Louisiana Republican.  FBI Director  Robert Mueller  said the federal criminal
investigation into the IRS is a “high priority” and that he
has more than a dozen agents working on the case.  ‘Pushed Aggressively’  “It’s a high-priority investigation and it needs to be
handled with care, but it also needs to be pushed aggressively
because it’s an important case,” Mueller told lawmakers on the
Senate Judiciary Committee today.  Amid concerns from Republican senators about the pace of
the investigation, Mueller said his agents have moved
“expeditiously” and that the FBI is taking the investigation
“very seriously.”  “I can tell you it’s not languishing,” Mueller said.  According to Shafer, the case that started it all was
reviewed by an employee who looks at 20 to 25 nonprofit
applications a day.  That particular case -- the name of which isn’t known
because of privacy rules -- indicated “potential political
activity” and lacked information that would have enabled the
IRS to immediately decide whether to grant tax-exempt status,
Shafer said.  More Attention  “Because of media attention that he had seen, he had
concerns about this being a high-profile case” that deserved
more attention than a typical application, Shafer said of his
employee.  Shafer’s interview -- like the others released so far --
show no evidence of political motivation or involvement from
government officials outside the IRS exempt organizations
division. Shafer is a self-described “conservative
Republican.”  The lack of information on that application presented a
challenge for the IRS as it tried to decide whether to grant
nonprofit status under section 501(c)(4) of the  tax code .  Such groups must be operated “exclusively” for social
welfare. IRS rules interpret that to mean they can’t have
politics as their primary purpose.  Shafer decided to flag that case to his bosses and IRS
lawyers in Washington, who then decided to look at similar cases
together.  Tea Party  Shafer’s statement fits with what Elizabeth Hofacre,
another IRS employee in Cincinnati, told investigators. She said
that employees initially focused so much on whether anti-tax Tea
Party groups should qualify for tax-exempt status that she sent
groups that self-identified as conservative and liberal back to
the general pile.  “We had a Tea Party case come in, so we used the word Tea
Party” in flagging groups requiring special attention, said
Gary Muthert, who also worked in the Cincinnati office that
processed applications for tax-exempt status. He said he
conducted some of the first searches for the groups in the
agency’s database.  Muthert said he broadened his search to include terms such
as “patriots” and “9/12” because he noticed those words used
on Tea Party websites. He also said he had been told that
someone in Washington wanted such cases reviewed.  According to Shafer, Holly Paz, a lawyer in the tax-exempt
division in Washington, was involved in 2010 in deciding to
collect these cases together. IRS officials have described this
effort as an attempt to collect similar cases so they could
apply consistent rules. Paz was replaced June 7.  Releasing Transcripts  Representative  Elijah Cummings  of  Maryland , the top
Democrat on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee,
 released  the  transcript  yesterday. He continued a feud with
Republicans over when transcripts should be made public.  “It debunks conspiracy theories about how the IRS first
started reviewing these cases,” Cummings said in a letter to
committee Chairman  Darrell Issa , a California Republican.
“These facts are a far cry from accusations of a conspiracy
orchestrated by the White House to target the president’s
political enemies.”  Issa, who has released some partial transcripts, said in a
statement that he was “deeply disappointed” by Cummings’s
decision and that it will hurt the investigation.  ‘Wrongly Argued’  “Cummings has wrongly argued that questions about IRS
conduct are somehow not legitimate,” Issa said. “His own
previous release of excerpts from this very same transcript
undermines his claims that the committee is somehow trying to
keep some specific revelation from public view.”  Shafer, who has worked for the IRS since 1992, said
repeatedly that cases were decided on their merits without
outside influence or politics.  In the interview, Shafer said he supported his employee’s
decision to label the Tea Party application as a case that
potentially merited extra attention.  Shafer’s decision on the first case didn’t necessarily mean
subsequent Tea Party cases were singled out due to applications
that lacked information. He said he was looking for cases that
might set precedents.  His statement that the scrutiny started with one case
undercuts the IRS’s argument that it encountered a flood of
applications from politically oriented nonprofits. Later on,
employees saw more Tea Party cases come in and tried to find a
consistent approach to handling them.  Review Exceptions  Shafer said he didn’t direct his employees to select all
cases with “Tea Party” in the name for further scrutiny. In
the interview, he said he looked at one case from 2010 that had
Tea Party in the name that didn’t go into the pile of cases
awaiting additional review.  He also referred to a document from March 16, 2010, showing
that three cases were approved before others were held.  Shafer wasn’t involved in the later stages of the IRS
effort, when the agency’s responses slowed as employees awaited
guidance from  Washington  lawyers and the IRS sent what it later
said were inappropriate questions to the groups.  “So many of these things are beyond what the scope of my
job is,” he said. “The first three days of life, you might
say, of an application is what I dealt with.”  James Sallah, one of Shafer’s attorneys, said in a
statement that the interview speaks for itself.  “It is clear that Mr. Shafer was carrying out his job
without any political motivation,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  