-- Food Use Seen by Oil World Driving Cooking Oils as Biofuels Slow
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-06-18T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/food-use-seen-by-oil-world-driving-cooking-oils-as-biofuels-slow.html
Food use will drive demand for
vegetable oils and fats in 2012-13 as the world population grows
and per-capita consumption rises, while biofuel use will
increase at the slowest pace in a decade, Oil World forecast.  Total use of 17 oils and fats in the year through September
is predicted to climb to 187.7 million metric tons from 183
million tons in 2011-12, the Hamburg-based industry researcher
wrote today in an e-mailed report.  The world population is forecast to expand 1.1 percent this
season, while rising incomes and changing diets are also lifting
consumption of oils and fats, according to Oil World. An index
of  cooking-oil  prices tracked by the  United Nations ’ Food &
Agriculture Organization was little changed in May from the
previous month and down 15 percent from a year ago.  “While per-capita consumption is largely saturated in
advanced economies, there is partly still significant upward
potential in emerging and developing economies,” Oil World
wrote in the report.  Food use of oils and fats is forecast to climb to 164.2
million tons from 159.7 million tons, with a larger population
accounting for 1.77 million tons of the increase and per-capita
consumption for 2.71 million tons.  “ Population growth  is an important parameter for demand of
oils and fats, but in most years, the more important component
in absolute terms is higher per-capita consumption as a result
of rising income and changing diets,” Oil World said. Lower
vegetable-oil prices are favoring a “relatively large increase
in per-capita consumption,” the researcher wrote.  Demand for Biofuel  Biofuel use of oils and fats will climb to 23.5 million
tons from 23.3 million tons, the smallest increase in at least
10 years, according to Oil World.  While larger U.S. biodiesel production will be required in
2013 to meet a higher mandate, the bulk of increased output may
only come in the last quarter of the calendar year, Oil World
said. Increased soybean-oil production at the end of the year
will improve conditions for biodiesel makers, it said.  In the European Union, biofuel demand is expected to “move
sideways” after mandates were frozen at the 2012 level, while
double-counting of waste oils for biofuel mandates may cut fuel
demand for primary oils and fats, Oil World said.  Biodiesel production is still climbing in Brazil and
 Indonesia , according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  