-- Forint Drops Most in Week as Hungary Yields Jump: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-06-18T14:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/forint-drops-most-in-week-as-hungary-yields-jump-budapest-mover.html
The forint fell the most in more
than a week on speculation that  Hungary ’s planned tax increases
will hurt economic growth and as investors awaited a signal from
the U.S. Federal Reserve about when it will taper stimulus.  Hungary’s currency weakened 1.1 percent to 293.92 per euro
by 3:45 p.m. in Budapest, the biggest decline since June 10. The
forint pared its advance in the second quarter to 3.5 percent,
still the best performance among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on the government’s 10-year bonds rose 26 basis points, or 0.26 percentage point, to
5.85 percent. Stocks fell for a second day.  The government plans to raise charges on telephone calls,
mining and financial transactions, Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga 
said yesterday. The measures contributed to the forint’s
weakness by threatening to weaken economic growth, traders at
Commerzbank AG and Equilor Befektetesi Zrt said. The  Federal
Open Market Committee  starts a two-day policy meeting today, a
month after Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said stimulus efforts could
be scaled back if the employment outlook shows sustained
improvement.  “The package announced by Varga had a relatively smaller
impact on the currency, stocks were hit more,” Pal Saaghy, a
Budapest-based trader at Equilor, said by phone today.
“Currency volatility is mainly caused by the uncertainty over
the fate of the Fed’s quantitative easing.”  The benchmark BUX stock  index  slid 0.6 percent, extending
its two-day loss to 1.9 percent.  Transaction Taxes  Besides the higher tax on transactions, banks will also be
required to make a payment equivalent to 7 percent of loans that
the central government transferred to its books from debt-laden
municipalities in December, according to a draft bill posted on
Parliament’s website yesterday.  The charge won’t constitute “selective default” because
the debt assumption and the payment obligation will be separate
both in timing and in legal terms, the  Economy Ministry  said by
e-mail today.  The tax hikes and the charge on the municipal debt are “a
disappointment” as they add to Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s
track record for “unorthodox” policies, Peter Attard Montalto,
a London-based strategist at Nomural International Plc, wrote in
an e-mailed report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  