-- French Schools Show Pitfalls for U.S. Common Core
-- B y   P e t e r   G u m b e l
-- 2013-06-18T22:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/french-schools-show-pitfalls-for-u-s-common-core.html
On June 17, tens of thousands of
French 18-year-olds participated in a rite of passage for which
they had been preparing all their lives: writing the philosophy
essay that kicks off the gantlet of national high-school-completion exams required to earn the  baccalaureat .  Nothing is easy about this first hurdle. Students are
handed an abstract question and given four hours to write a
reasoned analysis buttressed by philosophical quotes and
cultural allusions. The  2013 themes  included: “Is language only
a tool?” and “What do we owe the state?” In subsequent days,
students will face a battery of similarly difficult tests of
their knowledge in other disciplines such as math, foreign
languages and science.  For better and for worse, France’s rigorous national
curriculum offers important lessons as the U.S. sets out to
raise standards by introducing a  Common Core  program in 45
states and the District of Columbia by 2014.  Certainly, the brightest products of the French high-school
system often have an impressive range of knowledge -- a
structured,  analytical approach  that makes them appear wise
beyond their years -- and are ranked among the best in the world
for their command of math.  Human Cost  Yet France’s excellent standards also come at a human cost.
Its  education system  is plagued by a high failure rate and
worsens social inequality. About 20 percent of pupils struggle
with basic reading, writing and math throughout their school
years, according to recent government and international reports.
A decade ago, that figure was 15 percent. The vast majority of
those in difficulty come from poor or disadvantaged families.  Most troubling, the proportion of students who complete
high school is lower in  France  than in the U.S.; one-third drop
out before getting to the baccalaureat, and most of these are
working-class and first- or second-generation immigrant
children. Comparative data compiled by the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development’s PISA program show that
the socioeconomic background of schoolchildren is as much a
determinant of their performance in  France  as it is in the U.S.  It is noteworthy that the best French schools are usually
public, and free, and that U.S.-style private schools charging
$30,000 or more a year simply don’t exist. Yet the education
system also produces a level of social discrimination that can
seem Darwinian: Poor kids are likely to fail, while the rich are
likely to succeed. That’s in a nation that takes pride in a
meritocratic tradition dating to the French Revolution and where
the word egalite is inscribed on school buildings.  Why doesn’t the system perform better? The French agonize
over that question, and President Francois Hollande has made
fixing schools a priority. Money isn’t the issue: The national
school system is the single-biggest item in the budget -- $60
billion a year, compared with $40 billion for defense. Still,
Hollande’s education minister, Vincent Peillon, has determined
that 850,000 teachers aren’t enough, and is proposing to hire
60,000 more.  The Cour des Comptes, the government accountability office,
issued a report last month that torpedoed the logic of that
proposal; there’s no shortage of teachers, it said. The average
class size for 15-year-olds in French schools is 26.9 pupils,
slightly higher than the OECD average of 24.6 pupils, according
to the report. The fault lies with the centralized national-education administration, which is inflexible, costly and highly
bureaucratic and offers little opportunity for mobility.  Declining Standards  The most delicate issue in the national debate is over
standards. A recurrent refrain among French conservatives is
that the educational level has steadily declined, and that the
“ bac ” is no longer as rigorous as it once was. Educational
progressives vigorously contest that assertion. Whatever the
truth, the dropout rate suggests that the academic demands are
simply too high for most pupils.  Attempts to ease the requirements have had mixed results,
and in some cases have hardened the social rigidities in the
system. In the 1980s, two less academic, vocational
qualifications -- “technologique” and “professionel” -- were
created for school leavers. They are also called the
baccalaureat, but don’t have the same rigorous academic demands.  The “real” bac, the one with the philosophy paper, is taken
by just  one-third of pupils . The life-determining decision about
who will be able to take the exam is made at the end of middle
school. The 14- and 15-year-olds deemed not to have the
intellectual wherewithal for higher education are shunted into
the vocational high schools, often against their will.  All in all, the high pressure and heavy-handed selectivity
make for an unhappy atmosphere. PISA studies show that French
students are among the most stressed and are more likely than
their peers elsewhere to complain that teachers don’t listen to
them and aren’t interested in their well-being.  How should the French experience inform the U.S. push for a
 Common Core ? The first lesson is that national standards can be
an effective way to improve the quality of education and to
benefit students. Yet care must be taken to avoid  standards  that
are too rigid or too ambitious and would worsen the race-class
divide in education that has been a cause of concern in the U.S.
since a 1983 national commission report warned of “a rising tide
of mediocrity.”  Avoiding those pitfalls requires the transition to national
standards to be accompanied by a serious support system to
detect and help failing students as early as possible, and
provide significant tutoring for those at risk of falling
through the cracks.  Learning the tools of the philosophe, it turns out, isn’t a
smart idea for everyone.  (Peter Gumbel, a Paris-based journalist, is the author,
most recently, of “France’s Got Talent: The Woeful Consequences
of French Elitism.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Gumbel at  Petergumbel@orange.fr   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  