-- Gevo Resumes Commercial Production at Closed Isobutanol Site
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-06-18T20:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/gevo-resumes-commercial-isobutanol-production-at-minnesota-plant.html
Gevo Inc. (GEVO) , a U.S. biofuel producer
backed by French oil company  Total SA (FP)  and specialty-chemicals
maker  Lanxess AG (LXS) , has resumed production at its only commercial
isobutanol plant, which shut down in September. The shares
surged the most in five months.  One fermenter at Gevo’s Luverne, Minnesota, plant was
restarted last month, and the remaining three will be in
production by the end of the year, said Chief Executive Officer
Patrick Gruber.  Gevo’s  sales  plummeted 92 percent in the third quarter from
the prior period after contamination issues prompted the
Englewood, Colorado-based company to halt isobutanol production
at Luverne. The single fermenter isn’t running at full capacity
and Gruber wouldn’t say how much of the renewable biofuel it’s
making.  When the rest of the fermenters are back in operation “the
plant will be fully running normally,” Gruber said in an
interview yesterday. “We expect ongoing sales and ramping up in
the last quarter.” He declined to provide an output forecast
for the year.  Gevo gained 20 percent to $2.07 at the close in New York,
the most since Jan. 4.  When the plant opened in May 2012, the company said it
would be able to produce as much as a million gallons (3.8
million liters) of isobutanol a month. When it shut down
production four months later, Gevo said it needed to adjust the
manufacturing process and that output hadn’t reached expected
levels. The plant has an estimated annual capacity of 18 million
gallons, according to Gevo’s  website .  Fermentation Tanks  The facility is now using the proprietary Gevo Integrated
Fermentation Technology system, which separates isobutanol from
a “broth” in million-liter fermentation tanks, Gruber said. It
wasn’t in use when production was halted in September.  “The reason we shut down wasn’t because the technology
didn’t work -- we were hit with a microbial contamination,”
Gruber said. “Now we are running our GIFT system the way it was
designed.”  The company said last month that isobutanol production
would resume in the second half of this year, putting Gevo
“slightly ahead of schedule,” Gruber said.  Gevo uses corn and plant waste to make isobutanol, a
compound that may be blended with gasoline or converted into
hydrocarbon fuels and chemicals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  