-- GM Holden Says Labor Costs Must Be Cut to Save Australia Plants
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-06-18T07:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/gm-holden-says-labor-costs-must-be-cut-to-save-australia-plants.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Holden unit and
its labor unions will begin talks to reduce costs enough to keep
its Australian plants viable, a month after  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said
it will stop making cars locally.  “Every single option is on the table,” Mike Devereux,
Holden managing director, told reporters in Melbourne today in
response to a question on possible wage cuts. “Our employees
will be presented with a very difficult decision, I know that,
but it’s also one that I believe can help save the industry of
making automobiles in this country.”  Holden said it will cut about 400 jobs in  Australia ,
blaming the strong local currency and devaluations in competing
markets for making its local plants among the world’s most
expensive. Devereux said it costs about A$3,750 ($3,570) more to
produce a car in Australia than at other GM plants.  “If you want to build anything in this country, you do
face significant cost penalties,” he told reporters. “The goal
is to make labor-related cost savings.”  Australia’s three carmakers have struggled as a 13 percent
rise in the local dollar against the yen over the past year
stoked sales of cheaper imported vehicles and cut exports.
 Japan ’s  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  is the largest manufacturer of cars
in Australia.  Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s government has set aside
A$5.4 billion until 2020 to support the car industry. Purchases
of locally made cars fell 18 percent in the past four years,
according to Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries data.  Ford Australia plans to cut 1,200 jobs from its two plants
in Melbourne and Geelong by October 2016 after costs rose to
double those in Europe and four times those of its Asian
divisions, the company said last month.  “Holden is committed and remains committed to building
cars here,” Devereux said, reiterating a May 23 statement after
Ford announced its cuts. “We believe it has a crucial and
strategic importance to the Australian economy. But we also
recognize that there’s a need to improve our competitiveness.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in  Melbourne  at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  