-- GM Vows to Show China That Cadillac of Autos Isn’t Audi
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-18T03:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/gm-vows-to-show-china-that-cadillac-of-autos-isn-t-audi.html
As Vincent Qiu weighed his options
for buying a new sport-utility vehicle in Beijing, he was drawn
to the Cadillac SRX.  The SUV’s aggressive chrome grille, massive vertical
headlamps and sharp creases along the body make the vehicle
unique on  China  roads, where the rounded and organic shapes of
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi and  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Buick are popular.  “You can easily spot Audis on the roads, but not
Cadillacs,” Qiu, 41, who runs an office-supply company, said
last week in an interview. “But it is a big-ticket purchase and
in the end my wife talked me into playing it safe and buying
something that is more popular.” He bought an Audi Q5.  Qiu’s purchase underscores the challenge Detroit-based GM
faces as its races to establish Cadillac as a premium brand in
China, where Audi outsold the 110-year-old icon 14-to-1 in 2012.
GM aims to more than triple Cadillac sales by 2015 in China to
100,000 as it brings out a new model every year through 2016.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson, who is slated to be in
Shanghai tomorrow to break ground on a new Cadillac assembly
plant, has said the luxury brand is “a priority” in the
company’s $11 billion China investment plan through 2016.  “It’s estimated that 40 percent of luxury vehicles will be
sold in China by the end of this decade,” Akerson told analysts
June 12 during a presentation in suburban Detroit. “We have
about five or six years, in my opinion, to really establish
Cadillac as the premium brand on the same footing as you see
from our competition.”  Mulally Visit  Punctuating the attention that Detroit is paying to China,
Alan Mulally, the CEO of  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest U.S.
automaker, will also visit this week. Ford’s Mulally will be in
the southeastern city of Nanchang for the start of a factory of
Jiangling Motors Corp., a Chinese commercial-vehicle maker in
which Ford is the  largest investor , and a celebration at the
Changan Ford engine plant in Chongqing.  While behind GM in China, Ford is growing quickly with a
lineup of new vehicles and ambitious plans for its Lincoln
luxury brand, which is scheduled to go on sale in China during
the second half of next year. The Dearborn, Michigan-based
automaker is investing $4.9 billion in China to try to catch up
with market leaders GM and Volkswagen.  “China is massively important to us,” Matt VanDyke,
global director for the Lincoln brand, told analysts June 13 at
a conference hosted by Deutsche Bank. The “brand values” that
Ford has for Lincoln in the U.S. “will really translate very
well to our target customer in China -- inviting, elegant
simplicity. Warm, comfortable environments will be very, very
important for us there.”  Status Seekers  China became GM’s largest market in 2010 and while the
 Detroit  company lags behind luxury competitors, it’s No. 1 among
foreign automakers in total sales on growing deliveries of Buick,
Chevrolet and small, commercial vehicles sold under the Wuling
brand.  “The challenge for them in China luxury is really to
position into the Chinese status-seeking, consumer-branded
culture, because the Chinese luxury consumer starts out thinking
German equals car, French equals wine,” Brian Johnson, an
industry analyst with Barclays Plc, said last week in a
telephone interview.  GM makes this effort from a position of strength, having
generated 13 quarters of net income that boosted its stock to a
two-year high earlier this month. The company has returned to
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and is introducing redesigned
high-margin models in the U.S., such as the Chevrolet Silverado
and GMC Sierra full-size pickups.  U.S. Lineup  Cadillac’s resurgence in the U.S. should help it in China.
A new compact sedan called the ATS and new full-sized sedan
named the XTS have helped boost Cadillac deliveries in the U.S.
38 percent through May to 69,750, the biggest year-to-date
increase since 1976.  “For the first time, they have a sedan-coupe lineup that
mirrors the major German competitors,” Johnson said.  The new plant in  Shanghai , which is scheduled to open in
late 2013 or early 2014, is one of four assembly plants GM is
adding in China. The company already has 17 manufacturing
facilities in China, including 13 vehicle-assembly factories, GM
said in a May 7 e-mail.  “This is another one of our keys to additional growth,”
Bob Ferguson, head of Cadillac, told analysts and investors last
week of the new Cadillac plant.  At another factory, GM said it began local assembly of the
Cadillac XTS in March. The XTS “has huge potential,” Ferguson
said. “Spacious luxury cars are very much in demand there.”  The new car will help increase Cadillac sales in China 50
percent this year to about 50,000 vehicles, Ferguson said. “The
reception to the car is absolutely excellent.”  Akerson’s strategy is to build Cadillac into a powerhouse
on par with its profitable truck lineup in the U.S.  “It’s our objective to be the overall sales leader in both
the two largest markets in the world -- the United States and
China,” he told the analysts.  --Tim Higgins and  Craig Trudell  in Southfield,  Michigan , and
Tian Ying in Beijing. Editors: Jamie Butters, Bill Koenig, John Brecher.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Tian Ying in Beijing at   ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  