-- Google Considering Private-Equity Alliances
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n ,   J o n a t h a n   E r l i c h m a n   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-06-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/google-actively-considering-acquisitions-uses-toothbrush-test.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , actively on the lookout
for acquisitions, is for the first time considering forging
alliances with private-equity firms to help it structure deals.  Buyout firms can assist an acquirer by providing needed
financing or advice on how a target could be restructured or
carved up after a deal closes. While Google may invest cash to
get a return on the investment, it may also take part in a deal
to acquire an asset, said Don Harrison, Google’s mergers and
acquisitions chief.  Google, seeking to boost sales through acquisitions, uses
an approach it dubs the “toothbrush test” to assess how
frequently a potential target is used by consumers, Harrison
said in an interview yesterday at the  Bloomberg Next Big Thing
Summit  in Half Moon Bay,  California . The company, operator of
the world’s most popular search engine, is closing deals at a
pace of about one every other week, he said.  “We apply something called the toothbrush test, which is
we ask ourselves, ‘Is this something people use once or twice a
day and does it solve a problem?’” Harrison said in televised
remarks.  More than 11,000 mergers and transactions have been
announced this year, with an average size of $168 million and a
total value of $1.04 trillion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The average size of a technology deal was $93.4 million, and
private-equity firms were the top acquirers, according to the
data.  Google Deals  “There are opportunities,” Harrison said. “At some point
I think you’ll see a transaction.”  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, bought Waze
Inc. for $1.1 billion earlier this month, gaining technology
that draws on user input to make maps more accurate.  “Crowdsourced information will allow us to make our maps
vibrant and useful, more accessible,” Harrison said.  While Google takes valuation into consideration during
acquisitions, the company will pay a premium for an asset with
“aggressive” user growth, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Giles in  San Francisco  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Erlichman in  New York  at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  