-- Google Asks Intelligence Court to Let It Release Data
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-06-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/google-asks-intelligence-court-to-let-it-release-data.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  urged the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court for permission to publish the
aggregate numbers and scope of national security requests it
receives from the U.S. government.  The filing with the secret court, which issues warrants for
collecting foreign intelligence inside the U.S., is the latest
effort by Google to ease restrictions on disclosing the
information the government has asked for under the surveillance
program code-named Prism.  Google, along with other technology companies, including
Apple Inc. and Facebook Inc., is seeking greater latitude to
disclose information about the government requests for user data
collected by intelligence agencies.  “We have long pushed for transparency so users can better
understand the extent to which governments request their data --
and Google was the first company to release numbers for National
Security Letters,” Niki Fenwick, a spokeswoman for Google in
 Washington , said in an e-mail. To promote greater transparency,
the company is seeking “to publish aggregate numbers of
national security requests, including FISA disclosures,
separately,” she said.  Google is seeking a declaration from the court that would
allow it to release the statistics without violating the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, according to the filing,
which was provided by Google.  Corporate Scrutiny  The role of private companies has come under scrutiny since
Edward Snowden, a computer technician who did work for the
National Security Agency, disclosed this month that the agency
is collecting millions of U.S. residents’ telephone records and
the computer communications of foreigners from Google and other
Internet companies under court order.  Prism traces its roots to warrantless domestic-surveillance
efforts under former President  George W. Bush . According to
slides provided by Snowden, Prism gathers e-mails, videos and
other private data of foreign surveillance targets through
arrangements that vary by company and are overseen panel of
judges who work in secret.  Google, based in Mountain View-California, asked the FISA
court to affirm it has “the right under the First Amendment to
publish, and that no applicable law or regulation prohibits
Google from publishing,” statistics on the requests, including
the total number of users or accounts implicated by the
requests, according to the filing.  Sheldon Snook, a spokesman for the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court, declined to comment on the filing.  Yahoo Disclosure  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , yesterday became the latest technology company
to give details of government data collection, following
disclosures by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Facebook Inc. and Microsoft Corp.,
all of whom have revealed thousands of warrants for data from
government entities.  Yahoo!, the largest U.S. Web portal, said it got as many as
13,000 requests for information from U.S. law enforcement
agencies in the six months ending in May, with the most common
types related to fraud, homicides and criminal investigations,
Yahoo said in a posting on Tumblr. The Sunnyvale, California-based company said it can’t lawfully break out FISA requests,
and it urged the U.S. government to reconsider its stance on the
issue.  Google said it’s pushing authorities to let it
differentiate between varying types of government requests.  “Lumping national security requests together with criminal
requests -- as some companies have been permitted to do -- would
be a backward step for our users,” said Google’s Fenwick.  Terrorist Attacks  Intelligence-gathering efforts by the U.S. have helped
prevent more than 50 terrorist attacks in more than 20
countries, including one planned on the  New York  Stock Exchange,
government officials said in testimony before the House
Intelligence Committee yesterday.  John Chris Inglis, NSA deputy director, said at the hearing
that the agency approved inquiries on fewer than 300 phone
numbers in 2012.  Surveillance of communications between a known al-Qaeda
extremist in Yemen and an individual in the U.S. allowed the FBI
to “detect a nascent plot” to bomb the exchange and arrest
those involved, Sean Joyce, deputy director of the bureau, said.  Monitoring of foreigners’ Internet activity also helped in
the discovery of a plot to bomb the office of a Danish newspaper
that published cartoon depictions of the  Prophet Muhammad , Joyce
said.  That plot involved David Headley, a Pakistani-American who
was arrested in 2009 for helping to plot the 2008 shooting and
bombing attacks in Mumbai that killed 166 people. Headley was
convicted in January in a  U.S. federal court  for his role in the
attacks.  Plots Disrupted  Government officials last week said surveillance helped the
U.S. to disrupt a plot to bomb the New York City subway system.  The disclosures by Snowden, who also previously worked for
the Central Intelligence Agency, have sparked a criminal inquiry
by the  Justice Department  as well as a review by U.S.
intelligence agencies of how the leak occurred.  Snowden, 29, fled to  Hong Kong  last month before revealing
himself as the source, and U.S. lawmakers said they want to know
more about what led him to act.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  