-- Fed’s Decision Day Guide From Statement to Bernanke's Press Talk
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-06-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/guide-to-fed-decision-day-from-statement-to-bernanke-press-talk.html
Here’s what to look for when the
 Federal Open Market Committee  releases a statement and new
economic forecasts at 2 p.m. after a two-day meeting in
Washington and Chairman Ben S. Bernanke holds a press conference
at 2:30 p.m.:  -- An indication from Bernanke during the news conference
that any tapering of the Fed’s large-scale asset purchases would
be conditional on an improving economy, according to  Michael
Hanson , senior U.S. economist at Bank of America Corp. in  New
York . The  yield  on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes climbed to 2.19
percent as of 5 p.m. yesterday from 1.93 percent on May 21, the
day before Bernanke told a congressional committee the FOMC
“could” reduce purchases in “the next few meetings” if the
outlook for the labor market improves and the Fed is convinced
the improvement can be sustained.  -- Possible guidance in the 2 p.m. statement about the Fed’s
monthly  bond-purchasing program . The FOMC may signal the amount
by which it would begin decreasing the pace of purchases,
currently $40 billion a month in mortgage bonds and $45 billion
in longer-term Treasuries, according to  John Herrmann , director
of U.S. interest-rate strategy at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA
Inc. in New York. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg this month
said the Fed will probably make its first move at its Oct. 29-30
meeting, trimming to $65 billion a month.  Inflation Forecast  -- A revised inflation forecast in the projections at 2 p.m.
based on the recent slowdown in prices. While participants in
March expected 1.3 percent to 1.7 percent inflation for 2013,
the Fed’s preferred price gauge increased 0.7 percent in April,
well below the bank’s 2 percent goal. Still, with economic
growth likely to pick up in the second half of this year,
officials may be “somewhat sanguine toward what appears to be a
transitory inflation soft patch,”  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S.
economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York, said in
a note.  -- A possible improvement in the projections in the Fed’s
outlook for the  unemployment rate , which in May stood at 7.6
percent. In March, officials expected an unemployment rate of
6.7 percent to 7 percent for the fourth quarter of 2014. The
bank has pledged to keep  interest rates  near zero as long as
joblessness is above 6.5 percent and the inflation outlook is no
more than 2.5 percent.  -- A comment by Bernanke at the press conference on the
conditions under which the bank would slow bond purchases later
this year, how it might be implemented, and what implications
that would have for how long to keep the Fed’s target interest
rate near zero.  ‘Slower Pace’  -- “Our expectation is for Bernanke to use the press
conference to emphasize the message that even when the QE
purchase size is cut, the Fed will still be easing policy,
albeit at a slower pace,”  Millan Mulraine , director of U.S.
rates research at TD Securities USA LLC in New York, said in a
report. “Moreover, he will likely reiterate that any policy
tightening remains well into the horizon.”  -- A comment from Bernanke on his plans when his current
term expires in January, following President  Barack Obama ’s
comment in an interview this week that “he’s already stayed a
lot longer than he wanted or he was supposed to.”  -- Editors: Kevin Costelloe,  Carlos Torres   To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net 
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  