-- Ibovespa Rises as Higher Pulp Prices Boost Suzano; OGX Rallies
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-06-18T21:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/ibovespa-futures-decline-as-brazil-inflation-exceeds-forecasts.html
The Ibovespa climbed for the first
time in three sessions as higher pulp prices boosted Brazilian
producers including Suzano Papel & Celulose SA, outweighing
losses by homebuilders.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , the oil company
controlled by the billionaire  Eike Batista , led gains on the
benchmark stock index after slumping 15 percent yesterday. Iron-ore producer Vale SA rose to a one-week high.  The Ibovespa added 0.8 percent to 49,464.94 at the close of
trading. The real weakened 0.5 percent to 2.1816 per dollar at
5:48 p.m. in Sao Paulo even after the central bank intervened to
strengthen the currency. Average pulp prices reached $820.91 per
ton in the week ended June 18, the highest since the end of
August 2011, according to Helsinki-based FOEX Indexes Ltd.’s
BHKP global pulp price index.  “The outlook for pulp prices is positive,”  Pedro Galdi ,
the chief strategist at Sao Paulo-based brokerage SLW Corretora,
said in a phone interview. “And exporters such as Suzano
benefit from a weaker real, so investors are also taking that
into account now.”  Suzano jumped 4.6 percent to 7.79 reais.  Fibria Celulose SA (FIBR3) 
added 3.8 percent to 23.80 reais. OGX advanced 12 percent to 92
centavos.  The Ibovespa dropped as much as 1.4 percent earlier today
after the Getulio Vargas Foundation reported that the  IGP-M
price index  of wholesale, construction and consumer prices
increased 0.74 percent in the 20 days starting May 21. That was
more than the median forecast of 0.65 percent among economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  MRV, Rossi  “There seem to be too many imbalances in the Brazilian
economy, with high inflation, slow growth and a weak currency,”
 Luciano Rostagno , the chief strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil
SA, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “It’s driving people away
from equities.”  Homebuilder  MRV Engenharia e Participacoes SA  dropped 2.7
percent to 6.78 reais.  Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3)  slipped 2.5 percent
to 3.19 reais.  Votorantim Cimentos SA,  Brazil ’s biggest cement producer,
suspended an initial public offering of as much as $3.7 billion,
according to two people familiar with the decision who asked not
to be named because the decision hasn’t been officially
announced yet. The company was scheduled to price the shares on
June 20.  Votorantim’s IPO is the first to be postponed or canceled
in the world’s second-largest emerging market this year. Its
press office in Sao Paulo declined to comment.  Bear Market  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge plunged into a bear market
last week after falling more than 20 percent from this year’s
peak in January on concern that accelerating inflation will
limit the central bank’s ability to spur growth.  The Ibovespa trades at 11.9 times analysts’  earnings
estimates  for the next four quarters, compared with a multiple
of 10.2 for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of 21 developing
nations’ equities.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 6.76 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.85 billion reais this year
through June 14, according to data from the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  