-- Microsoft Said to Add Qualcomm as Surface RT Supplier
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-06-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/microsoft-said-to-add-qualcomm-as-surface-rt-supplier.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , seeking to break
into the market for tablet computers, will update its Surface RT
using chips from  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , people with knowledge of the
company’s plans said.  Some new versions of Surface will be based on Qualcomm’s
Snapdragon processors, which can deliver fast wireless data
connections, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because Microsoft has yet to announce new models.  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) ,
whose Tegra chip is used in the current Surface RT, will
continue as a supplier for some versions, one person said.  By adding Qualcomm, the largest supplier of chips for
smartphones, Microsoft will be able to expand the capabilities
of Surface. Sales of the device, designed and sold by Microsoft,
have fallen short of analysts’ estimates, leaving the tablet’s
Windows RT operating system with less than a percentage point of
market share in the first quarter, compared with 40 percent for
Apple Inc., according to IDC.  Representatives for Microsoft, San Diego-based Qualcomm and
 Santa Clara , California-based Nvidia declined to comment.  Qualcomm dominates the market for chips that enable so-called LTE, or long term evolution, wireless connections.  The RT version of Microsoft’s Windows is designed to get
the company into the $64 billion tablet market dominated by
Apple and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software. It’s the first
Microsoft computer operating system that works on chips which
use  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  technology, a standard that dominates in
smartphones and tablets.  Earlier this month, Microsoft reaffirmed its commitment to
RT at the Computex show in  Taiwan  and said it will add a version
of the Outlook e-mail and calendar application in an attempt to
make it more attractive to businesses.  The Redmond, Washington-based company also makes a version
of Surface that features  Intel Corp. (INTC)  chips and the full Windows
8 operating system. That device is capable of using programs
written for older versions of Windows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  