-- Tim Hortons Gains After Scout Capital Buys Stake
-- B y   L a u r e n   S   M u r p h y
-- 2013-06-18T20:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/tim-hortons-gains-after-scout-capital-buys-stake.html
Tim Hortons Inc. (THI) , Canada’s largest
fast-food chain, had its biggest gain in almost two years after
Scout Capital Management LLC bought a 5.5 percent stake in the
company.  Tim Hortons rose 4 percent to C$56.05 at 4:28 p.m. in
Toronto, the largest one-day  gain  since Aug. 11, 2011. The
shares have risen 15 percent this year.  Scout Capital, the New York-based hedge fund, said in a
filing dated June 6 it has “engaged in discussions” with Tim
Hortons about its capital structure, spending, share buybacks
and compensation. Scout’s stake is worth about C$467 million
($457 million) at today’s share price, making it the second-largest shareholder, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The hedge fund makes “concentrated investments in high
quality businesses it believes are misunderstood and incorrectly
valued by the markets,” the company said in an e-mail today. As
of May 2013 it had more than $6 billion of assets under
management.  Scout Capital is the second activist investor to take a
stake in the Oakville, Ontario-based company. Highfield Capital
Management LP took a 4 percent stake in the Canadian coffee and
doughnuts chain in May, recommending it use debt to fund
“capital return” and halt a push in the U.S.  Tim Hortons has faced criticism from investors after its
U.S. expansion yielded poor operating profits last year. U.S.
stores brought in $20,000 per shop compared with C$182,000 in
 Canada , according to Derek Dley, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity
Corp.  Increase Leverage  “The two parties and other investors think the debt levels
can be expanded at Tim Hortons,” Kevin Chu, a Toronto-based
retail analyst with Accountability Research Corp., said by
phone. “If they increase their leverage then there’s  a
possibility that there can be much larger share buybacks and or
maybe raising its dividend further.”  The company does not talk about individual shareholders,
Scott Bonikowsky, a spokesman for Tim Hortons, said. It is
focused on continuing its track record of creating value and
welcomes all feedback, Bonikowsky said in a e-mail.  Tim Hortons is committed to the U.S. market and believes it
holds “great potential,” Paul House, acting chief executive
officer, said in a May earnings call. Cynthia Devine, chief
financial officer, said there may be potential to create value
by adding debt which could be used for several purposes
including “potential share repurchases.”  Marc Caira, a former executive with  Nestle SA (NESN)  takes over as
CEO in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren S Murphy in Toronto at 
 lmurphy48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  