-- IMF Warns Russia Against Fiscal Stimulus as Forecast Cut
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-06-18T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/imf-warns-russia-against-fiscal-stimulus-as-forecast-cut.html
The  International Monetary Fund  cut
its economic growth forecast for  Russia , cautioning against the
danger of stoking inflation with fiscal stimulus and urging
policy makers to improve the business climate.  Gross domestic production will expand 2.5 percent this year
and 3.25 percent in 2014, the Washington-based lender said in a
statement today, compared with April predictions of 3.4 percent
for 2013 and 3.8 percent next year. The Economy Ministry
projects 2.4 percent growth this year and 3.7 percent in 2014.  “Fiscal stimulus at this time would likely be ineffective
and merely intensify inflationary pressures, given that the
economy is operating at full capacity,” IMF Mission Chief
Antonio Spilimbergo said in the statement after completing the
Article IV consultation of Russia’s economy. “ Monetary policy 
should remain geared toward achieving inflation objectives.”  The IMF is inserting itself into a debate over a mix of
policy tools needed to revive an economy growing at the weakest
pace since a contraction in 2009. The government sees room to
bolster the economy through a weaker ruble after rejecting calls
to make the central bank partially responsible for growth,
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said in an interview last week.  The ruble weakened 0.5 percent against the dollar to
31.8950 as of 10:32 a.m. in Moscow. The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 50 stocks
fell 0.3 percent percent to 1,321.62.  ‘Investment, Diversification’  The world’s largest energy exporter is hurting from slower
growth in its biggest trade partners  China  and the euro area,
which is mired in a record-long recession. A better business
climate would be an “impetus to investment, diversification,
and growth,” according to the IMF.  Mining output contracted 4.9 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, while manufacturing growth slowed to 1.3
percent from 6.2 percent, the Federal Statistics Service in
Moscow said yesterday. It reiterated that GDP grew 1.6 percent
in the first three months, decelerating for a fifth quarter.  Russia remains vulnerable to a rapid drop in crude  oil
prices  as well as an intensification in net capital outflows
that may follow from a deterioration in financial and economic
conditions, the IMF said in the statement.  “The pre-crisis growth model, based on increasing  oil
prices  and rising use of spare capacity, is no longer viable,”
Spilimbergo said. “Growth in the next decade will need to rely
on improving efficiency and productive investment.”  While Russia is on target to see inflation slow to within
the top end of the central bank’s 5 percent to 6 percent range
this year, Bank Rossii may miss 2014’s goal of 4 percent to 5
percent without additional policy measures, the IMF said.  “Calls for near-term policy stimulus may jeopardize newly
minted macroeconomic anchors, and financial stability risks from
rapid unsecured consumer credit growth are rising,” Spilimbergo
said. “Ambitious economic policy reforms are necessary to
realize the Russian economy’s medium-term potential and reduce
its vulnerabilities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  