-- India Rupee Declines Most in a Week Before Federal Reserve Meet
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-06-18T11:39:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/india-rupee-declines-most-in-a-week-before-federal-reserve-meet.html
India’s rupee dropped the most in a
week on concern the  Federal Reserve  will signal a reduction in
asset purchases that have boosted inflows to  emerging markets .  The Fed starts a two-day meeting today, almost a month
after Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said stimulus efforts could be
scaled back if the U.S. employment outlook shows sustainable
improvement. Global funds have cut  holdings  of Indian debt from
a record $38.5 billion after the comments, as the premium
offered by 10-year sovereign bonds over U.S. Treasuries dropped
by 34 basis points. The  Reserve Bank  of India held its
 repurchase  rate at 7.25 percent yesterday, as predicted by 15 of
25 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “Any hints of hawkishness out of the Fed could potentially
impart further nervousness towards emerging markets and  Asia ,”
Emmanuel Ng, a strategist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in
 Singapore , wrote in a report today. The RBI’s “hawkish stance
may do the rupee no favors in the current environment.”  The currency slid 1.5 percent to 58.7725 per dollar in
Mumbai, the biggest drop since June 10, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It touched a record low of 58.9850 per
dollar on June 11. One-month implied volatility, a gauge of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose
68 basis points, or 0.68 percentage point, to 11.29 percent.  Current Account Gap  Any policy easing will depend on India’s growth, inflation
and balance of payments, the RBI said in a statement yesterday.
This indicates that the monetary authority’s focus has shifted
to a measure that includes financial flows rather than just the
current-account deficit, which is a gauge of trade, according to
a Nomura Holdings Inc. research note yesterday. This signals
that financing of the record current-account gap is important to
the central bank, Nomura added.  India, the world’s biggest consumer of gold, could
implement more measures to curb imports, Economic Affairs
Secretary Arvind Mayaram told Bloomberg Television  India  in an
interview yesterday. The government is unlikely to sell bonds to
overseas citizens to attract capital flows, Bloomberg TV India
channel reported today, citing people it didn’t identify.  Inward shipments of gold and silver jumped almost 90
percent to $8.39 billion in May from a year earlier after the
metal’s price slid in April, data from Director General of
Foreign Trade Anup Pujari showed yesterday. Overall Indian
exports slid 1.1 percent to $24.51 billion, while imports
advanced 7 percent to $44.65 billion, leaving a deficit of $20.1
billion.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 1.7 percent from
yesterday to 59.68 per dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts dropped 1.7
percent to 59.76. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets
at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled
in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  