-- India Can Take More Steps to Cut Gold Imports, Mayaram Says
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-06-18T10:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/india-can-take-more-steps-to-temper-gold-imports-mayaram-says.html
India (INGDPY) , the world’s biggest consumer
of gold, could implement more measures to curb imports, a top
economic official said as the country seeks to narrow a record
current-account deficit and check the currency’s drop.  “We are not at the end of our wits as far as gold imports
are concerned,” Economic Affairs Secretary Arvind Mayaram told
Bloomberg Television  India  in an interview yesterday. “If
required, there are other measures that can be taken and they
will be considered at the appropriate time.”  India this month increased a tax on gold imports as it
tries to curb demand for the metal that’s contributed to the
current-account gap and hurt the currency. The rupee dropped the
most in a week yesterday as the central bank left borrowing
costs unchanged, after falling in each of the last six weeks and
touching a record low of 58.9850 per dollar on June 11.  “They may come up with stricter policies from import point
of view by putting some controls or limits on tonnage if the
measures already taken do not help,” Haresh Soni, chairman of
the All India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation, said by phone
from New Delhi. The government may also explore the option of
further raising taxes and tightening financing norms, he said.  India raised the import duty to 8 percent from 6 percent on
June 5, a fourfold increase from January last year and the
central bank placed curbs on shipments on a consignment basis
and limited imports for local consumption against cash only.  Bear Market  Imports surged in the past two months as buyers thronged
shops for ornaments, coins and bars after bullion entered a  bear
market  in April as investors sold the metal in favor of riskier
assets on speculation that the global economy was recovering.  Any fresh steps to contain gold demand will spur illegal
trade and hurt the domestic jewelry industry, which is already
facing a supply shortage, Soni said. Banks are charging jewelers
a premium of $5.50 an ounce to $6 an ounce over the London cash
price for bullion, he said. Gold for immediate delivery fell 0.5
percent to $1,378.26 an ounce by 3:39 p.m. in Mumbai.  Overseas purchases tumbled to an average $36 million a day
in the 14 business days through June 7, compared with an average
$135 million a day through 13 days until May 20,  Raghuram Rajan ,
chief economic adviser in the  Finance Ministry , said on June 11.
Gold and silver imports surged 90 percent to $8.39 billion in
May from a year earlier, the Commerce Ministry said yesterday.  The shortfall in the  current account , the broadest measure
of trade, was $32.6 billion in the last quarter of 2012 and is
the biggest risk to the $1.9 trillion economy, according to the
central bank.  The Finance Ministry is finalizing measures to attract
foreign investments, including liberalizing foreign direct
investment caps in various industries, Mayaram said. The slide
in the rupee value is temporary, he said.  “We need to continue to push for long-term capital inflows
and therefore the FDI policy has to undergo a revamp,” Mayaram
said. “We need to move in this direction quickly and it needs
to be a paradigm shift in how we look at FDI.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  