-- India’s Bonds Snap Two-Day Gain as Rupee Seen Fueling Inflation
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-06-18T04:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/india-s-bonds-snap-two-day-gain-as-rupee-seen-fueling-inflation.html
Indian bonds due 2022 snapped a two-day advance on concern a slide in the rupee will fuel inflation,
limiting room for the central bank to cut  interest rates .  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao kept the
repurchase  rate  unchanged at 7.25 percent yesterday, saying a
weakening exchange rate would spur price increases. The rupee
has lost 7.1 percent this quarter, the worst performer among
Asia’s 11 most-traded currencies. India’s consumer-price  index 
rose 9.31 percent in May, official data showed last week, while
a similar gauge gained 2.1 percent in China.  “The currency remains a worry” for the  bond market , said
Debendra Kumar Dash, a fixed-income trader at  Development Credit
Bank Ltd. (DEVB)  in Mumbai. “While there is hope that the central bank
will cut rates, there are several conditions attached to it.
There are no positive triggers for the bond markets to rally.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.47 percent as of 10
a.m. in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system.  India ’s monetary-policy stance will be determined by the
evolution of economic growth, inflation and the balance of
payments in the months ahead, the central bank said in its
statement yesterday, adding it stands ready to “respond rapidly
and appropriately to any adverse developments.”  “It is only a  durable receding  of inflation that will open
up the space for monetary policy to continue to address risks to
growth,” the RBI said.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, rose one basis
point to 7.21 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
fixed payment to lock in borrowing costs for a year is six basis
points below the RBI’s 7.25 percent repo rate. The gap had
widened to as much as 17 basis points on May 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  