-- India Panel Said to Back Looser FDI Caps Amid Record Deficit
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-06-19T06:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/india-panel-said-to-recommend-higher-foreign-investment-limits.html
An Indian Finance Ministry panel has
recommended easing foreign investment rules in more than a dozen
industries to help fund a record current-account gap, according
to three government officials with knowledge of the matter.  Overseas investors would be able to own all of a
telecommunications company under the proposals, up from 74
percent, with the ceiling for retail chains selling multiple
brands rising to 74 percent from 51 percent, the officials said,
asking not to be identified as the information isn’t public. The
defense cap would rise to 49 percent from 26 percent, they said.  India  faces the widest current-account  deficit  in the BRIC
group of largest emerging nations, which also includes Brazil,
Russia and  China , adding pressure for steps to attract capital
to finance the shortfall. The rupee, weighed down by the
imbalance, slid to a record low against the dollar last week and
has weakened 7.5 percent this quarter, the biggest drop in  Asia .  Steps toward liberalization “are good to boost sentiment,”
said  Madan Sabnavis , chief economist at Credit Analysis &
Research Ltd. in Mumbai. “But what’s more important is creating
an enabling environment as doing business in India is becoming a
big headache. Why will investments come to India when things are
much easier in other countries?”  The limit for news broadcasting and print media would climb
to 49 percent from the current 26 percent, according to the
recommendations of the panel headed by Economic Affairs
Secretary Arvind Mayaram, the officials said.  Insurance, Retailing  Other industries where investing would become easier
include insurance, retailers selling single brands, tea and tea
plantations, courier services, asset reconstruction, public-sector petroleum refining, and commodity and power exchanges,
the officials said.  The rupee strengthened 0.2 percent to 58.6775 per dollar as
of 11:41 a.m. in Mumbai. The S&P BSE Sensex index slid 0.3
percent. The yield on the 8.15 percent bond due June 2022 was
little changed at 7.48 percent.  The review of investment caps is part of a nine-month push
by Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government to fight the
slowest growth in a decade and avert a credit-rating downgrade.  Other steps have included liberalization of foreign
investment limits in the retail and aviation industries, faster
approvals for public works, lower levies on overseas buyers of
local bonds and higher taxes on gold imports.  Etihad Airways PJSC agreed in April to buy a 24 percent
stake in Mumbai-based Jet Airways (India) Ltd. for 20.6 billion
rupees ($350 million), taking advantage of the changes.  Fitch Ratings  revised India’s credit-outlook to stable from
negative on June 12, providing some succor for Singh, whose
coalition has faced graft scandals as well as depressed growth.  Foreign-direct investment slid about 21 percent to $36.9
billion in the last fiscal year from the previous 12 months.  The current-account deficit widened to $32.6 billion in
October through December, equivalent to 6.7 percent of gross
domestic product.  Economic growth  was 5 percent in the year
ended March, the slowest since 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddhartha Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  