-- Indonesia Fund Jamsostek Sees Opportunity in Stock Slump
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-06-19T09:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/indonesia-fund-sees-opportunity-in-stock-slump-southeast-asia.html
PT Jamsostek ,  Indonesia ’s biggest
pension fund, said the nation’s benchmark stock index will
extend losses, giving the manager an opportunity to boost equity
holdings amid optimism about the country’s economic growth.  There will be short-term volatility and further declines in
the  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI) , which lost as much as 12 percent
after reaching a record on May 20, before the market resumes its
climb, Jamsostek President Director Elvyn Masassya said in a
June 17 interview. The gauge will reach about 5,000 at the end
of 2013, Masassya said, compared with 4,840.45 yesterday. The
index gave up its earlier gains and ended 0.7 percent lower
today, snapping three-day rose.  Foreign investors sold a net $2 billion of Indonesian
equities since last month’s peak, wiping out almost $40 billion
of the stock market’s value. Jamsostek, which manages 144.2
trillion rupiah ($14.6 billion), has been buying shares over the
past three weeks and increased the proportion of funds invested
in equities to 19 percent from 18 percent at the end of May,
according to Masassya.  “The turbulence will still be there because some stocks
are not cheap enough,” Masassya said. The Jakarta index “will
stabilize” when it trades at 12 times to 13 times estimated
earnings, he said. The gauge is  valued  at 14.2 times profit.  Jamsostek’s investments in equities returned 33.5 percent
in the first five months of 2013,  outpacing  the 17 percent gain
in the benchmark index, said Masassya, who turned 46 yesterday.  Fed Stimulus  “Selling pressure from foreign funds has decreased while
domestic investors are starting to enter the market again, so
the worst should be over,” said Agus Yanuar, chief investment
officer at PT Samuel Asset Management, who sees the Jakarta
gauge rising to 5,200 at the end of the year. “We might see the
index moving sideways for the near future, June and July, but
there is a very small probability for a deep correction.”  The Jakarta index’s declines have come amid a 9 percent
slump by the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index since May 22, when
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank
could consider paring stimulus. Fed officials weighing the pace
of monetary stimulus are due to announce the results of a two-day policy meeting later today. All 38 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey expect the central bank to keep its benchmark  interest
rate  unchanged at 0.25 percent.  Jamsostek plans to boost its investment allocation for
stocks to between 20 percent and 25 percent over the next five
years from 18 percent to 22 percent currently, Masassya said.
Investments would focus on stocks that will benefit from
infrastructure projects, he said, declining to identify specific
companies.  Infrastructure Investments  The fund will also boost direct investments into
government-backed infrastructure projects, Masassya said. This
will double the fund’s allotment for direct investments to 10
percent, he said.  “We expect that we can increase our allocation in direct
investment, especially for infrastructure,” he said. “The
demand for infrastructure funds is still huge in Indonesia, such
as for  power plants , toll road, seaports and airports.”  Indonesia plans to boost spending to support growth.
 Southeast Asia ’s largest economy is forecast to expand 6.3
percent this year, according to the government. That rate is
almost three times the 2.2 percent pace estimated for the global
economy by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The  Jakarta Construction, Property and Real Estate Index 
has gained 57 percent this year, the most among nine industry
group in the benchmark gauge, which has gained 13 percent.  New Members  Jamsostek expects to more than triple assets under
management to 473 trillion rupiah in the coming five years as
more workers start contributing to the fund, Masassya said. This
means assets will increase by 25 percent to 27 percent each
year, he said.  The fund has 11.7 million members, a number Masassya
expects will increase to 37 million in five years. To help reach
that target, Jamsostek has increased the number of customer
service outlets across the country to 627, of which 127 are full
branches.  Masassya, who composes music, plays the guitar and has
recorded several albums, was Jamsostek’s investment director
until he was promoted to head the fund in August last year.  Among Southeast Asian markets, the valuation of Jakarta’s
benchmark index is lower than the  Philippine Stock Exchange
Index (PCOMP) , which trades at 18 times estimated earnings, and Kuala
Lumpur’s FTSE Bursa Malaysia  KLCI Index (FBMKLCI) , with a price-earnings
ratio of 16. The Jakarta gauge may climb to 5,518.85 over 12
months, according to price targets for index members compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s 14 percent above yesterday’s close.  PT Citigroup Securities Indonesia said in a report
yesterday that recent market weakness is a “buying
opportunity” and that it prefers domestic-oriented sectors such
as media, toll road operators, cement and property.  “If you take a look the regional market, Indonesia still
has a huge opportunity for potential gain this year,” Masassya
said. “There is room to build your equities holdings, and the
time is now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  