-- Mining CEOs Punished as FTSE 100 Peers Keep Pay: Commodities
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-06-19T15:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/mining-ceos-punished-as-ftse-100-peers-keep-pay-commodities.html
The largest mining companies traded
in London cut pay for their chief executive officers by an
average 23 percent last year, as boards punished several top
managers after a wave of failed deals.  Average compensation for the 13 CEOs at companies valued in
excess of 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) skidded to $3.6
million in calendar and fiscal 2012 from $4.7 million in 2011,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s  Cynthia Carroll , who left in April, had the biggest drop as her total
pay fell 61 percent to 3.19 million pounds. In contrast, CEOs
who run members of the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  eked out an average
1 percent increase.  Four of the six biggest mining companies in the industry
trade in London and their managers oversee assets from  Australia 
to  Zambia . Some lost their bonuses -- and their jobs -- after a
mergers and acquisition binge over a decade to buy into a
commodities-price boom that stalled in 2011.  “A number of these managers paid the price for poorly-timed acquisitions, expensive acquisitions or pursuing gold-plated expansions which resulted in a poor use of shareholder
capital,” said  Jeff Largey , a mining analyst at Macquarie Group
Ltd. in London. He is the top-ranked analyst on  BHP Billiton 
Ltd. and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  according to the Bloomberg Absolute
Return Ranking.  Companies in Britain and the U.S. have been under mounting
pressure to curb executive remuneration amid an investor revolt
dubbed the shareholder spring.  Paycuts Welcome  The total return on FTSE 100 mining stocks was a drop of
2.6 percent last year, the sixth-worst performer of 33 industry
groups in the index tracked by Bloomberg. The 10 mining
companies have lost a further 13 percent this year, as the
broader index returned 8.1 percent.  “Where paycuts have occurred, it’s definitely welcome and
it probably should have happened in more cases,” said Luke
Hildyard, head of research at the High Pay Centre, a U.K.
monitoring body set up in 2009 after an inquiry into public and
private sector remuneration. “There is an air of deflecting the
criticism. They want to win the spin war and distract from the
issue.”  Failed deals in aluminum and coal caused $14 billion in
writedowns at  Rio Tinto  and cost CEO Tom Albanese his job, while
cost overruns at an iron project Carroll purchased in  Brazil 
contributed to her departure from Anglo.  BHP Billiton (BHP)  and
 Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  CEOs also took pay cuts last year before leaving
their jobs.  Carefree Investors  “Investors are very carefree in a rising market
environment and tend to overlook how much the CEO is getting
paid,” said Largey. “Once the cycle turns, the scrutiny really
steps up.”  The backlash was carried over from financial institutions,
with Barclays Plc giving former CEO  Robert Diamond  about a 10th
of his full entitlement on departure after politicians pointed
to his role in the Libor-fixing scandal that saw the bank fined
290 million pounds.  Eurasian Natural Resources (ENRC)  Corp. was the worst performer
last year, shedding 54 percent of its value, while Anglo
American dropped 26 percent. Fresnillo Plc, the best performer,
gained 24 percent.  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  CEO  Mark Bristow  bucked the trend
as a bumper share award saw his compensation jump 53 percent to
$6.99 million pounds in 2012, making him the best-paid CEO among
his peers. A $4 million share award to recognize Bristow’s
“outstanding contribution” to the company was opposed by 39
percent of votes at the company’s annual shareholder meeting in
April.  Deal Spree  Natural resources companies went on a deal spree in the
past decade, spending $1.1 trillion chasing growth, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Mergers and acquisition activity
peaked in 2006 when mining and metals businesses spent more than
$200 billion.  The mining industry’s M&A missteps have been compounded by
higher costs for energy, labor and construction materials. That
has trimmed profits, sapped investor appetite for further deals
and spurred calls for greater returns.  The U.K.’s top 100 CEOs received a 1 percent median
increase in total awarded remuneration, according to a survey by
proxy voting agency Manifest and London-based pay consultants
MM&K.  Burberry Group Plc’s Angela Ahrendts was the FTSE’s best-paid CEO with total realized remuneration of 16.9 million
pounds, according to the survey. Barclays’ Diamond topped the
earning chart last year with 20.9 million pounds.  Moderation Helps  “If you put your head above the parapet, then you’re
liable to be highly visible, you’re going to attract a lot of
negative feedback,” Cliff Weight, a director at pay consultant
MM&K Ltd., said in an interview. “If you show a bit of
moderation then it helps. It’s good that people seem to be
listening.”  Former BHP Billiton CEO Marius Kloppers declined a bonus
last year after the company took a $3.3 billion charge on gas
and nickel assets. His total remuneration fell to $6.6 million
from $11.1 million in the previous fiscal year.  Kloppers’ successor,  Andrew Mackenzie , is paid an annual
base salary of $1.7 million. Kloppers’ base salary in 2007, when
he became CEO, was $1.85 million, growing to $2.2 million in
fiscal 2012. BHP said “some downward rebasing at this time is
appropriate,” when it announced Mackenzie’s pay in April.  Spokesmen for Anglo American, BHP, ENRC and Randgold
declined to comment for this article.  Share Slump  Rio Tinto’s Albanese pocketed $4.4 million last year, even
after forsaking his annual bonus for a third time over failed
deals in aluminum and coal. In its annual report, Rio said it
was “deeply disappointed” by the writedowns.  Total compensation for ENRC’s CEO Felix Vulis fell 1.8
percent to 2.98 million pounds, its annual report published
April 30 shows, after the company’s shares declined 55 percent
last year. The Kazakh-focused mining company and power producer
is currently under investigation by the U.K.’s Serious Fraud
Office for alleged fraud and bribery.  “If you look at the share-price performance of most of
these companies it is understandable why investors question why
bonuses should have been given or up-sized,” said Largey. “I
don’t think investors saw the returns they were expecting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in  London  at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  