-- Investors Switch Bonds for Stocks, BofA Survey Shows
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-06-18T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/investors-switch-bonds-for-stocks-bofa-survey-shows.html
Investors cut bond holdings to a
near two-year low this month, and bought stocks, as expectations
the  Federal Reserve  may remove monetary stimulus bolstered
growth forecasts, a  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  survey showed.  A net 50 percent of 190 global fund managers, who together
oversee about $572 billion, said they now hold fewer bonds than
are represented in asset-allocation benchmarks, while the
proportion who are overweight on stocks rose to 48 percent from
41 percent as they bought U.S. and European shares. Emerging-market equity holdings slumped to the lowest level since
December 2008.  “Investors’ sentiment has been surprisingly resilient in
recent weeks despite the jump in volatility in financial
markets,” New York-based Michael Hartnett, chief investment
strategist at Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit, wrote in a
note to investors today. “While our fund-flows data shows bond
capitulation, the survey shows that there has been no
capitulation in equities in the U.S. and  Europe .”  The MSCI World Index has fallen 2.9 percent from its five-year high on May 21 after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May
22 that the central bank may taper its bond-purchasing plan if
economic growth is sustained. The comments spurred ten-year
Treasury  yields  to the largest monthly jump since January 2009,
while the  Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index (VIX) 
climbed to a near four-month high.  Overweight U.S.  A net 25 percent of investors said they are overweight U.S.
 equities , meaning they hold more of the shares than are
reflected in benchmarks, the highest level in 13 months.  Holdings of euro-area equities increased to a net 6 percent
overweight from a net 8 percent underweight, Bank of America
said. Allocations to Japanese equities fell for the first time
in eight months, with a net 17 percent of investors this month
saying they hold more of the stocks than called for in
benchmarks.  A net 56 percent of participants said they expect the
global economy to grow in the next 12 months. Still, a net 31
percent said they expect slower Chinese growth, the worst
negative reading since October 2011, the survey showed. As a
result, a net 9 percent of investors said they are underweight
emerging-market  stocks , the first negative stance since early
2009 and most bearish reading since December 2008.  Globally, technology, healthcare and luxury-consumer goods
are the most favored industries, according to the survey.
Utilities, phone companies and providers of basic-resources are
the least in demand.  Commodities Allocations  Allocations to commodities fell to a net 32 percent
underweight, the lowest level since the data started in January
2006, the survey showed.  “Contrarians should note that commodity and emerging
market assets tied to China growth and bond volatility are at
extremely bearish levels,” Hartnett said.  Bank of America’s MOVE Index climbed to a 12-month high of
84.75 on June 6, up from a record low of 48.87 in May. The
gauge, which measures volatility based on prices of over-the
counter options on Treasuries maturing in two to 30 years, is
below the average of 82.05 since the start of 2010.  The global survey was conducted from June 7 to June 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  