-- Lions Get ‘Reality Check’ in Last Rugby Game Before Australia
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-18T16:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/lions-lose-to-brumbies-in-final-tour-match-before-rugby-series.html
The British and Irish Lions lost to
provincial opposition for the first time since 1997 as their
perfect rugby tour record ended with a 14-12 defeat to the ACT
Brumbies four days before the series opener against  Australia .  The Brumbies, missing their frontline Wallabies, scored the
only try at Canberra Stadium through center Tevita Kuridrani and
got three penalties from full-back Jesse Mogg to hand the Lions
their first loss in six matches in 2013. It was the combined
team’s first defeat to a provincial team since South Africa’s
Northern Transvaal beat them 16 years ago.  “We have been building nicely, there has been a lot of
momentum,” Lions head coach Warren Gatland said after last
night’s game. “Maybe it’s sometimes not the worst thing to take
a bit of a knock and get a bit of a reality check, and we had
that today. There are a lot of people disappointed.”  Gatland will name his lineup for the June 22 opener against
Australia tomorrow as the squad from the U.K. and Ireland seeks
its first Test series victory since beating South Africa in
1997. The Wallabies won 2-1 when the teams last met in 2001.  Stuart Hogg and Owen Farrell each kicked two penalties as
the Lions were held try-less last night after amassing 261
points and allowing 54 in their previous five games.  Following a spate of injuries, the Lions picked a makeshift
lineup against the Super Rugby-leading Brumbies that included
six starters who weren’t even on the original 37-man roster.  ‘Beaten Up’  “We are not looking for excuses, we brought in quality
players and we had a quality team,” Lions captain Rory Best
said in a televised interview. “We just got beaten up on the
gain line. We let our standards drop and it’s up to the 15 and
23 picked on Saturday to reassert that.”  The Lions trailed 14-3 with 25 minutes left, and got
themselves back into contention only to be repelled by the home
defense as the Brumbies became the first Australian provincial
team to defeat the combined squad since Queensland 42 years ago.  “It’s one of the highlights of my life,” said Brumbies
coach Jake White, who guided South Africa to the Rugby World Cup
title in 2007. “They showed so much ticker at the end there.
There’s a lot to be proud about.”  The Brumbies took a fourth-minute lead after Mogg’s long
pass sparked a counterattack and Kuridrani fended off winger
Christian Wade before stepping inside Irish full-back Rob
Kearney on a run to the line.  With the Lions struggling to get out of their own half and
their new combinations misfiring, Hogg missed a 19th-minute
penalty that would have pulled the tourists within two points.
The Brumbies then failed with two kicks of their own before Mogg
was successful in the final minute of the first half.  Seconds Away  The Lions were seconds away from their first scoreless
opening half since the 1980 tour of South Africa when Hogg
landed a penalty kick to make it 8-3 at the break.  Two penalties from Mogg then put the Brumbies 11 points
ahead and the Lions lack of cohesiveness in attack was summed up
in the 48th minute when they took the ball through 10 phases,
only to lose 15 meters in the process.  Hogg kicked a penalty and then hit the post with another
attempt before being replaced by Farrell with 21 minutes left as
Gatland made a raft of substitutions.  With Farrell more familiar with the all-English center
pairing of Billy Twelvetrees and Brad Barritt, the Lions attack
had more cohesion. The touring team could only add another two
penalties from Farrell’s boot, though, as the Brumbies held on
for the victory.  “We didn’t want to lose momentum but we did that,” added
Best. “We now have to face the heat, dust ourselves down and
see where we are. Credit to the Brumbies, they were hungrier
than us right across the board.”  Wallabies Boost  Australia, which hasn’t played since beating  Wales  in
Cardiff on Dec. 1, received a boost yesterday when winger Digby Ioane said he’s recovered from knee surgery in time to be
selected for the opening Test in Brisbane.  “I’ll be ready for this weekend,” Ioane told reporters.
“I just had to do the little things first to get it right but
now I’m right to go. All I have to do is just get picked for
this weekend.”  Wallabies coach Robbie Deans also is scheduled to name his
team tomorrow. Deans may pick Ioane and rookie Israel Folau to
start on the wings and Berrick Barnes at full-back because of
concerns about Kurtley Beale’s lack of match fitness, the
Australian Associated Press reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  