-- Iran Is Ready to Suspend 20% Uranium Enrichment, Russia Says
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-06-18T15:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/iran-is-ready-to-suspend-20-uranium-enrichment-russia-says.html
Iran is ready to suspend enrichment
of uranium to 20 percent, a key demand of world powers at talks
over its disputed nuclear program, Russian Foreign Minister
 Sergei Lavrov  said.  In return, the Persian Gulf nation must be offered
“weighty reciprocal steps,” including a gradual lifting of
unilateral and United Nations sanctions, Lavrov said in an
 interview  with the Kuwaiti news service Kuna posted today on the
Foreign Ministry’s website.  “This could become a breakthrough agreement that could
largely remove the tension surrounding the existing problems,
including concern about enrichment rising to weapons level,” he
said. “It would be unforgivable not to use this opportunity.”  Progress on an interim proposal by the world powers for
Iran to suspend its 20 percent enrichment of uranium in return
for limited relief from sanctions was scuttled at the latest
round of talks in April by  Iran ’s insistence on being assured
that what it sees as its right to peaceful enrichment of uranium
will eventually be recognized.  Iranian chief negotiator Saeed Jalili said that while his
country would consider the step of suspending enrichment at 20
percent levels, “we must know upon what foundations it rests.”
Recognition of Iran’s right to enrich uranium for peaceful use
under the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty would move the talks
forward, he said.  The six world powers -- the U.S., Britain,  France ,  Germany ,
 China  and  Russia  -- haven’t yet set a date and place for the
next round of talks with Iran.  Iranian President-elect Hassan Rohani said yesterday that
he’ll make the country’s nuclear program more transparent as he
seeks to ease tension with the U.S. and reduce “brutal”
sanctions that have crippled the economy.  The U.S. and its allies suspect Iran is seeking to build
nuclear weapons, while the Islamic republic insists its atomic
program is to generate electricity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  