-- Iranian Rial Gains as Rohani Pledges to Seek Sanctions Relief
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-06-18T11:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/iranian-rial-gains-as-rohani-pledges-to-seek-sanctions-relief.html
The Iranian rial, whose plunge
triggered an inflation crisis, is gaining in the unregulated
market after President-elect Hassan Rohani said he would seek to
ease international sanctions crippling the economy.  The currency strengthened to 34,650 rial a dollar today in
unregulated trading, marking a 4.6 percent appreciation from
June 13, the day before Rohani’s surprise first-round victory,
according to Daily Rates For Gold Coins and Foreign Currencies,
a Facebook page used by businessmen based in Iran and abroad.  Rohani, who succeeds President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  in
August, said yesterday that he will seek to improve Iran’s
relations with the world and make the nuclear program more
transparent. While Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei, 73, retains the
power over national security, past presidents have been able to
influence the tone of foreign policy. The rial had lost more
than two-thirds of its value in the past two years as of April
30, according to the  U.S. Treasury .  The Iranian currency is gaining because “the impression
would be that Rohani’s election would mean there could be some
scope for greater negotiation and compromise with the West,”
Edward Bell, London-based analyst at the Economist Intelligence
Unit, said by phone today. “Whether or not that can be born out
by reality is still pretty uncertain. Immediately after the
election, we’re still in the same economic conditions in  Iran .”  ‘Greater Inspection’  Sanctions have pushed the Iranian economy into recession.
The country’s  gross domestic product  is set to shrink 1.3
percent this year after contracting 1.9 percent in 2012,
according to International Monetary Fund estimates. Inflation
will average 27 percent this year, the highest among oil
exporters in the  Middle East , IMF data show.  Israel  and the U.S. say Iran is trying to develop nuclear
weapons capability. Both have threatened to attack Iran should
other means fail to stop the Islamic republic from trying to
obtain nuclear weapons. Iranian officials say Iran, a signatory
to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, is entitled to conduct
nuclear work and maintains its program is solely for energy
generation and medical research.  Western powers may ease some sanctions if Rohani “is
willing to allow greater inspection” of Iranian nuclear
facilities by the  International Atomic Energy Agency , Bell said.
Still, the U.S. and the European Union are unlikely to lift
sanctions on Iranian oil exports “until they see some real
positive signs from Iran that it’s willing to make some major
changes,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  