-- Third Point Boosts Sony Stake as Daniel Loeb Seeks Talks
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-06-18T09:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/third-point-funds-boost-stake-in-sony-as-daniel-loeb-seeks-talks.html
Third Point  LLC, the hedge fund led
by billionaire  Daniel Loeb , increased its stake in  Sony Corp. (6758) 
while pushing for talks with the board on a proposed initial
public offering of the company’s entertainment business.  Funds controlled by Third Point own 70 million shares
through direct ownership and cash-settled swaps, according to a
June 17 letter from the investor to Sony Chief Executive Officer
 Kazuo Hirai  obtained by  Bloomberg News . That equals about 6.9
percent of the Tokyo-based company’s shares on issue.  Directors of Sony, which holds its annual shareholder
meeting June 20, are discussing Third Point’s proposal to spin
off as much as 20 percent of its music and movie assets so the
company can focus on reviving consumer electronics earnings.
Loeb, whose fund increased its stake by 9.4 percent, said the
company is regaining its edge with the new PlayStation 4 game
console and Xperia smartphones.  “It’s positive for Sony; Loeb is acknowledging Sony’s
potential,” said  Mitsushige Akino , chief fund manager at
Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “It would be good for
shareholders if Sony spins off its entertainment unit as it
would boost its value.”  The new holding compares with the 64 million shares Third
Point said it had “exposure to” in a May 14 letter.  Mami Imada, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Sony, said the
company received the letter and is considering the proposal.
Elissa Doyle, a spokeswoman for New York-based Third Point,
declined to comment.  Jim Kennedy , a U.S.-based spokesman for
Sony Entertainment, said he had no immediate comment.  Shares Gain  Sony  shares  rose 4.4 percent 2,036 yen in Tokyo trading,
while the Topix index rose 0.2 percent. The stock has more than
doubled this year and gained 8.5 percent since Third Point’s
first letter.  “This shows Third Point is serious,” said Yasuo Nakane,
an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Tokyo. “The suggestion itself
is reasonable. Becoming a listed company will improve disclosure
of the entertainment business and add pressure to management.”  Loeb said a spinoff of the entertainment assets should
include a “semi-independent governance structure” with Hirai
serving as chairman of both companies. By creating an
independent entertainment board, managers would be more
accountable and would help in setting growth targets and making
decisions on allocating capital, Loeb said in the letter.  The hedge- fund manager  said a lack of capital had forced
the company to resort to joint ventures and “costly loans” in
music publishing, such as its purchase of EMI Group assets.  A Sony-led group, including billionaire  David Geffen ,
agreed in November 2011 to pay $2.2 billion for EMI’s publishing
unit from Citigroup Inc.  Increased Transparency  “It seems difficult to argue that entertainment would not
be strengthened by the transparency that comes with public
reporting,” Loeb wrote in the letter.  Sony’s share of  Japan ’s smartphone market rose to a three-year high this month, widening its lead over Apple Inc., as new
Xperia models and a discount program from the nation’s largest
wireless carrier helped stoke sales.  The company unveiled its new PS4 this month, with orders
for the new console running ahead of internal projections,
Andrew House, president and group chief executive officer of
Sony Computer Entertainment, said last week in an interview.  In a face-off between Microsoft Corp.’s Xbox One and the
PlayStation at the annual E3 video-game conference in  Los
Angeles , Sony won the first round by pricing its machine $100
below Microsoft’s and offering more flexibility about how to
play, trade and sell games.  TV Losses  The new machines face a difficult market. U.S. retail sales
of video-game hardware, software and accessories fell 25 percent
to $386.3 million last month as consumers shifted to digital
titles played on mobile devices and awaited next-generation
consoles,  Port Washington , New York-based NPD Group Inc. said in
e-mail yesterday.  “Sony appears to be regaining its competitive edge,” Loeb
said in the letter. “Given our large stake, we reiterate our
offer to serve on Sony’s board of directors.”  Sony last month forecast a 16 percent increase in profit
for the year started April 1 following job cuts, asset sales, a
weaker yen and blockbuster movies including “Skyfall” and
“The Amazing Spider-Man.”  Sony Pictures Entertainment  this
week announced dates for the third and fourth installments of
the rebooted “Spider-Man” franchise.  Apple Deal  The company reiterated its target for the TV operation to
post a profit this year after racking up 800 billion yen ($8.4
billion) in losses since 2004 and seeing its global share of
revenue from flat-panel TVs fall to fifth from third in the
quarter ending March 31, according to researcher  DisplaySearch .  The company accounted for 5.1 percent of sales in the
period, compared with 6.6 percent in the three months ended
December, it said.  Apple signed an agreement with Sony’s music business this
month to enable the iPhone maker to start its online radio
service, said people with knowledge of the situation. The
Japanese company’s artists include  Alicia Keys .  Sony is working with Morgan Stanley and Citigroup as it
considers the Loeb plan, people familiar with the matter said
last month.  “It’s unlikely the proposed plan for an entertainment IPO
will move forward swiftly,” said Keita Wakabayashi, an analyst
at Mito Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “Sony has said its stance is
not to sell it. Still, you can’t rule out other possibilities,
especially that the company’s board will be renewed.”  Board Revamp  Shareholders at the June 20 meeting will vote on Sony’s
nomination of three new board directors, including two former
Apple executives, to replace four that will retire.  The electronics and entertainment businesses should be
managed together because that would allow the company to
coordinate the release of ultra-high resolution TVs with
compatible movies, Hirai said in an interview with the Nikkei
newspaper published June 14. Hirai promised to increase sales 5
percent to 10 percent a year by expanding TV programming, cable
channels and “other platforms.”  “The entertainment arm is one of our three core pillars,
along with electronics and the financial arm, so the hardware
and software businesses are managed in an integrated manner,”
Hirai told Nikkei.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in 東京 at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  