-- Israel’s Peres Clings to Hope of Peace in Lifetime as 90 Nears
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   E l l i o t t   G o t k i n e
-- 2013-06-18T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/israel-s-peres-clings-to-hope-of-peace-in-lifetime-as-90-nears.html
Diplomacy and negotiation should be
given more time to solve the crisis over containing  Iran’s
nuclear program , according to Israeli President  Shimon Peres .  “To be honest and responsible, I wouldn’t recommend that
the attempt to prevent the Iranians from having nuclear weapons
should be started by shooting,” said Peres, 89, interviewed at
his official residence in  Jerusalem  last week. He spoke before
the election Friday of a new Iranian president, Hassan Rohani,
who has promised to work to end his country’s isolation.  The emphasis on negotiations contrasts with Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu’s view that “only a credible military
threat” would deter  Iran  from building a bomb.  Peres’s optimism that a diplomatic solution can still be
found to defuse tensions with Iran is emblematic of a political
career often viewed more positively abroad than in his own
country. The president, who is celebrating his 90th birthday at
an international conference in Jerusalem beginning today, has
won as many critics as supporters for his insistence that peace
between Arabs and Jews is not a pipe dream.  “Peres has been a divisive figure, with supporters viewing
him as a visionary, and detractors as a fantasist,” said
Abraham Diskin, political science professor at the  Hebrew
University of Jerusalem . “Though some of his visions have been
fulfilled, others were not, and his final legacy will depend on
history’s judgment.”  Failed Peacemaking  Peres doesn’t hesitate a second when asked what has been
his biggest disappointment in a seven-decade political career
that predates his country’s 1948 birth.  “My greatest hope -- if you can call it a disappointment -
- is peace,” said Peres. “I still think it’s the most
important thing for us, for the Arabs, for our mothers, for our
children.”  Peres is best-known internationally for the role he played
in the secret negotiations that yielded  Israel ’s first accord
with the Palestinians in 1993. That agreement won him a Nobel
Peace Prize the following year, along with  Yitzhak Rabin  and
Yasser Arafat, then the Israeli and Palestinian leaders.  Much of the region is mired in turmoil two decades after
Peres prophesied a “new  Middle East ” born of the historic
accords he promoted with the Palestinians. Still, the Nobel
peace laureate remains optimistic he’ll see his dream fulfilled.  “There are changes -- maybe not as dramatic as I would
like them to be -- but there are changes,” he said of the
Middle East, singling out what he calls an “Arab peace camp”
headed by Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas .  Peace Partner  Peres, who is not supposed to delve into politics as
president, speaks more highly of Abbas than the current Israeli
government does, viewing him as a partner for peace. He also
responds more warmly to the Arab peace initiative, which
proposes normalizing relations with the Arab world in exchange
for Israel’s return to borders it held before the 1967 Mideast
war, saying he appreciates it as an “opening position.”  The Polish-born former leader of Israel’s Labor party held
every major ministerial position, while failing four times to
win election to the premiership outright against more hawkish
rivals. He earned a two-year term in 1984 as part of a rotation
agreement with Likud incumbent Yitzhak Shamir, and succeeded the
assassinated Rabin in 1995 before losing office in May 1996 to
 Benjamin Netanyahu , who now sits again in the prime minister’s
seat.  Drew Fire  During that brief tenure at the helm, Israel drew fire for
a military operation against Lebanese militants that was meant
to end shelling of Israel but backfired when more than 100
civilians were killed by artillery shells that hit a United
Nations compound.  Entering the final year of his seven-year term as
president, Peres has finally found in this ceremonial role the
wide Israeli public appreciation that eluded him in his
political career.  As president, he’s been credited with restoring dignity to
an office tarnished by predecessor Moshe Katsav, who resigned in
disgrace and later went to jail on a rape conviction.  Peres, who oversaw the development of Israel’s nuclear
reactor in Dimona while deputy defense minister in the 1950s,
sees nothing hypocritical in his country’s insistence that
Iran’s efforts be curtailed. Under a policy of nuclear
ambiguity, Israel has never publicly acknowledged having atomic
weapons; defense publication IHS Janes includes it in its list
of nine nuclear states.  Dimona Visit  When Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Moussa was head of the
 Arab League , he asked Peres to take him to the Dimona reactor so
he could “see what you are doing there,” the president
recalled.  “I told him, ‘Amr, are you crazy? I would take you to
Dimona, you would see there is nothing there, and you would stop
being worried -- which means I would have to start being
worried. I don’t mind you are worried.’ We are not threatening
anybody; we are being threatened.”  While his actual birthday is Aug. 2, Peres’s 90th is being
celebrated this week in Jerusalem to coincide with an annual
policy conference organized by his office that attracts
prominent public figures from abroad. In addition to more
typical guests like former Soviet president Mikhail Gorbachev
and U.K. prime minister  Tony Blair , this year’s festivities have
drawn entertainers  Barbra Streisand  and  Sharon Stone .  Hawking Canceled  One conspicuous absence will be British physicist Stephen Hawking, who canceled his participation last month to protest
Israel’s settlement policy in the  West Bank . “Such a
distinguished scientist must learn the facts,” said Peres,
adding that Hawking “should be oriented toward the future, not
the past.”  His own orientation toward the future led Peres to become a
pioneer supporter of Israel’s burgeoning technology industry,
and he personally promoted electric car network developer Better
Place Inc. to its partner, Renault. Peres rejects the notion
that Better Place’s bankruptcy announcement last month  damaged
Israel’s image as a “startup nation.”  “If you don’t try, you’ll never succeed; if you do try,
you’ll fail occasionally, that’s natural in my eyes,” Peres
said.  Israel’s president is chosen by parliament for a single
term. Among the possible successors to Peres floated in the
media is Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer , who steps down
from that role at the end of this month.  “He would be an excellent candidate, but I can’t take a
position,” Peres said. “I can say that I have the highest
regard for Stanley Fischer. He is a real man, he is
knowledgeable, a real public servant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Elliott Gotkine at 
 egotkine@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  