-- Tissue Regenix Licenses Technology to U.S. Tissue Bank
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2013-06-18T06:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/tissue-regenix-licenses-technology-to-u-s-tissue-bank.html
Tissue Regenix Group Plc (TRX) , a U.K.
maker of replacement body parts, agreed to license its cell-removal technology to a U.S. tissue bank that will produce a
human-skin replacement for sale next year.  Tissue Regenix will pay  Community Tissue Services  of
Dayton,  Ohio , a processing fee for decellularized skin that the
tissue bank produces with the company’s dCell technology,
managing director Antony Odell said.  The agreement gives the York, England-based company a
supply of tissue to make the product, which it can then sell in
the U.S. and in other countries. U.S. laws prohibit the non-profit bank, which handles 10 percent of tissue grafts in the
U.S., from making money on the tissue, though the bank can
provide the tissue to its own service users, Odell said.  “They will get to distribute the dermis to some of their
customers,” Odell said in a telephone interview. “It enables
them to use more tissue. We can also market the tissue through
selected partners in the U.S. to increase the coverage beyond
what they can achieve.”  The skin tissue produced with Tissue Regenix’s dCell
technology will be used in wound-care products for chronic skin
ulcers and potentially for burns and orthopedic and dental
purposes, Odell said. The projected market for wound-healing
devices and equipment is $1.5 billion in 2016 in the U.S., he
said. The agreement with the tissue bank covers other potential
applications in orthopedics and vascular conditions.  Removing Cells  Tissue Regenix was unchanged at 8.88 pence in London
yesterday, giving the company a market value of 57.9 million
pounds ($91 million). The stock has fallen 30 percent this year.
The company’s  biggest shareholder  is  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , which owns
29.5 percent of the shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The dCell technology involves taking animal tissue and
removing cellular material from it that would cause humans to
reject the implant. That allows doctors to replace worn out or
diseased body parts without anti-rejection drugs.  “We take human tissue, apply a series of very gentle
washes and remove the cells and DNA,” Odell said. “What you
end up with is a matrix which, when it’s placed into the wound
space, it repopulates with the patient’s own cells. It’s a
natural healing mechanism.”  A  pilot study  of Tissue Regenix’s technology found there
was complete wound healing in 12 of 20 patients who had 13-centimeter to 14-centimeter (5-inch to 6-inch) skin wounds that
had existed for an average of just under five years, Odell said.  Tissue Regenix is establishing a sales force to help
promote the wound-care product in the U.S. in the first half of
next year and is talking to a number of distributors who are
interested in selling it there, too, Odell said. He declined to
identify the potential partners and said Tissue Regenix is
weighing whether to ally with multinational companies or smaller
U.S.-focused ones.  “There are pros and cons to both,” Odell said. “We don’t
want to become a little thing in somebody else’s portfolio.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in  London  at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  