-- Itau to Buy 51% of Cencosud’s Chile Credit-Card Unit
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-06-18T14:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/itau-to-buy-51-of-cencosud-s-chile-argentina-credit-card-unit.html
(Corrects date in last paragraph.)  Itau Unibanco Holding SA,  Latin
America ’s largest lender by market value, will become the
biggest credit-card operator in  Chile  after agreeing to manage
the in-house cards of Santiago-based retailer  Cencosud SA. (CENCOSUD)   Itau will buy 51 percent of the credit-card operations of
Cencosud in Chile and  Argentina  for $307 million, and fund 100
percent of future credit-card loans in both countries, the
companies said in a statement yesterday.  “This is a strategic growth opportunity,” Cencosud’s
Chief Executive Officer, Daniel Rodriguez, told reporters in
Santiago yesterday. “This partnership will help us build up and
strengthen the credit-card business.”  Itau will have about 2.3 million cards in Chile once the
deal is completed, with an outstanding loan portfolio of $1.3
billion, according to the statement. The bank will pay $280
million for the Chilean operations and $27 million for the
Argentine unit. Cencosud will use the payment to pay down debt
and fund expansion plans, Rodriguez said.  Cencosud, Latin America’s third-largest retailer by sales,
said in a filing to Chile’s regulator last week it was
negotiating a deal with banks to handle its credit-card
operations in Argentina and Chile, without specifying which
banks. Santiago-based Diario Financiero had reported the day
before that the retailer was in talks with Itau.  Cencosud signed in August 2011 a deal with Brazilian lender
Banco Bradesco SA to operate branded credit cards for Cencosud’s
supermarkets in  Brazil .  In May, Cencosud said it would set aside provisions of 20
billion pesos ($40 million) after Chile’s  Supreme Court  ordered
the retailer in April to compensate clients affected by
“abusive” clauses on its credit-card contracts.  Rodriguez said yesterday that the deal with Itau had
“nothing to do” with the court’s fine and that the two
companies had been negotiating the accord for 10 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  