-- Japan Eased Short-Sale Rules Become Permanent in November
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-06-18T00:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/japan-eased-short-sale-rules-become-permanent-in-november.html
Rules making it easier for investors
to short  Japanese stocks  will become permanent in November,
according to the nation’s markets regulator.  Investors selling borrowed securities in hopes of profiting
by repurchasing them at a lower price and pocketing the
difference will be allowed to make a trade at any price, unless
the stock has fallen 10 percent from the previous close.
Currently, short sellers aren’t allowed to accept bids or offer
to sell shares below the lowest price offered by long investors.
The law is part of  a package  that will for the first time
explicitly include trades made on alternative platforms that
display prices, known as proprietary trading systems.  The rule changes will replace a series of ad-hoc short-selling regulations that  Japan ’s Financial Services Agency has
been periodically renewing, including a ban on short sales
without holding the underlying security, known as a naked short,
in place since October 2008. The announced rules, including the
restriction on naked shorts, will become permanent in November,
according to an April 23  statement  from the regulator.  “The removal of the uptick rule will make easier to take
short positions and this will provide more liquidity in the
market,” said Makoto Kikuchi, chief executive officer of Myojo
Asset Management Co., a Tokyo-based hedge fund advisory firm.
“The new reporting and disclosure rule may cause more work on
administration and compliance side.”  Sellers will have to report a short position to the
regulator once it reaches 0.2 percent of the issued shares, and
send a public notice once it reaches 0.5 percent. Reporting and
public disclosure are now required for any position above 0.25
percent.  Short Sales  Short sales have accounted for an average of 10 percent of
the  value of stocks  traded on the Tokyo Stock Exchange over the
past 30 days and 11 percent over the past five days, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The regulator is still reviewing whether and how to widen
the scope of trades that could be covered in regulations,
according to the statement.  “Making the rules clear and permanent provides greater
business certainty, a key feature for investor confidence,”
said Jessica Morrison, Asia Pacific head of market structure at
Deutsche Bank AG. “Allowing short sellers to place orders
outside the spread will encourage more participation at
different  price levels , reducing volatility while increasing
crossing opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  