-- Japan Won’t Pander to Markets in Abenomics Policies, Amari Says
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p ,   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-06-18T09:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/japan-won-t-pander-to-markets-in-abenomics-policies-amari-says.html
Japan  isn’t setting its policies to
“pander” to markets, which will swing round if the economy
improves, said Japan Economy Minister Akira Amari.  “While market movements are important in themselves, the
government isn’t making policy to pander to markets and should
have confidence that markets will follow its policies,” Amari,
63, said today in an interview at his office in  Tokyo . “If we
are confident and improve the real economy, stock prices will
naturally follow,” he said.  The Japanese government and  Bank of Japan  have faced
increased swings in currency, stock and bond markets as
investors react to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s efforts to revive
economic growth. The mix of regulatory reform and fiscal and
monetary stimulus known as Abenomics is aimed at lifting Japan
out of 15 years of deflation.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average has dropped almost 17 percent
from a five-year peak on May 22 and is about 3 percent higher
than on April 4, when Bank of Japan Governor  Haruhiko Kuroda 
unleashed unprecedented monetary easing. The yen traded at 95.18
per dollar at 5:41 p.m. in Tokyo, more than 1 percent stronger
than when the BOJ acted. Ten-year Japanese government bond
yields were at 0.82 percent late today in Tokyo, after tripling
from a record low of 0.315 to 1 percent.  BOJ Communication  Amari also urged the Bank of Japan to communicate clearly
with financial markets, saying it should convey its reasoning
“properly.” He praised steps that the central bank has taken
to achieve a 2 percent inflation target.  “The BOJ will proactively make decisions, and communicate
properly with markets,” Amari said. “The BOJ should continue to
make an effort to properly convey its thoughts to the market.”  Minutes from the Bank of Japan’s May 21-22 policy meeting
showed concerns over the bank’s communications from within the
BOJ’s nine-person board. One member said the central bank’s
communication about its easing plans “might be destabilizing
expectations for the  bond market ” and increasing volatility.  Amari is currently the minister in charge of economic
revitalization, reform of social security and tax, and minister
of state for economic and fiscal policy. He is also leading
Japan’s negotiations for entry to the Trans-Pacific Partnership,
a U.S.-led regional trade agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  