-- Japan Shares Gain Before Fed Meeting as Shippers Advance
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-06-18T07:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/japan-s-topix-rises-third-day-as-miners-developers-climb.html
Japanese  shares  closed higher, after
swinging between gains and losses most of the day, as volume
remained below the 30-day average and the yen traded above 95 to
the U.S. dollar ahead of a Federal Reserve Policy meeting.  Shipping companies climbed the most among the  Topix (TPX) ’s 33
industry groups, while exporters provided the biggest support.
 Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503)  led advances on the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average after a report new safety guidelines for nuclear plants
may be put into effect on July 8. Sony Corp. rose 4.4 percent as
a fund run by activist shareholder Daniel Loeb said it increased
its stake in the electronics maker while continuing to urge the
company to change. Drugmakers provided the biggest drag among
the Topix sector groups.  The Topix rose 0.2 percent to 1,086.40 at the close of
trading in Tokyo, with volume about 45 percent below the 30-day
intraday average. Almost as many shares rose as fell on the
1,709-member gauge. The measure advanced as much as 1 percent
and retreated 0.5 percent. The Nikkei 225 slid 0.2 percent to
13,007.28. Futures traded in  Singapore  were little changed.  “The market has become very reactive to even small
speculative reports,” said  Akio Yoshino , chief economist in
Tokyo at Amundi Japan Ltd., which oversees about 2.6 trillion
yen ($27 billion). “Investors are going to be waiting on the
sidelines until the Fed results. Japanese shares are cheap on a
valuation and technical level, so once there’s a catalyst
investors are going to be buying again.”  Fed Meeting  Attention will focus on Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s
press conference tomorrow after the two-day policy meeting.
About $2.5 trillion has been erased from global markets since he
said on May 22 that the central bank could begin winding back
stimulus if the U.S. job market shows sustainable improvement.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The gauge rose 0.8 percent yesterday as investors
weighed economic data with prospects for stimulus cuts. Data
showed  New York  manufacturers were more optimistic, while U.S.
homebuilder confidence surged to the highest in seven years.  U.S. shares pared gains after the Financial Times reported
that Bernanke may signal the central bank is close to tapering
its $85 billion in asset purchases.  “We’re going to be flung around by newsflow related to the
Fed,” said  Toshihiko Matsuno , a senior strategist at SMBC
Friend Securities Co. in Tokyo. “There’s been a report the Fed
is likely to signal it will reduce easing soon. But the Bank of
Japan has started its own easing so I don’t think we need to be
too worried if global liquidity scales back a little.”  Shippers Jump  Shippers led gains on the Topix today. Mitsui OSK Lines
Ltd., which  accounts for  36 percent of the Topix Maritime
Transport Index, climbed 6.1 percent to 381 yen after being
rated outperform in new coverage by Credit Suisse Group AG. The
brokerage cited the sector’s low valuations and recovering dry
bulk rates. Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, the world’s largest merchant
fleet operator, rose even after one of its ships suffered damage
amid bad weather in the Indian Ocean, causing the crew to
abandon and some cargo to be lost.  Exporters advanced as the yen held losses against the
dollar. A weaker yen boosts overseas earnings at exporters when
repatriated. Toyota Motor Corp., which gets 75 percent of its
revenue from outside  Japan , advanced 1.8 percent to 5,800 yen.
Canon Inc., the world’s biggest cameramaker, climbed 0.5 percent
to 3,175 yen. Sharp Corp. advanced 1.2 percent to 429 yen.  Yen Falls  The yen traded at 94.91 per dollar today, falling for a
second day, after strengthening last week and touching 93.98
against the greenback on June 14. The Japanese currency weakened
against 15 of its 16 major peers today, after a Bank of Japan
report showed its current-account balance will rise to a record
amid unprecedented monetary stimulus.  Among other stocks that rose, Kansai Electric Power
advanced 6.2 percent to 1,384 yen, the bigget jump on the Nikkei
225. New safety requirements for nuclear plants may be put into
effect from July 8, Kyodo news reported, without citing anyone.
Kansai Electric said May 28 that they plan to submit an
application to restart nuclear reactors as soon as they can
after the new guidelines are put into place.  Sony also gained today after Third Point LLC, the hedge
fund led by billionaire Daniel Loeb, said it increased its stake
in the electronics company. Third Point are pushing for talks
with the board on a proposed initial public offering of the
company’s entertainment business. Sony advanced 4.4 percent to
2,036 yen, the second-biggest boost to the Topix.  Relative Value  The Topix has dropped about 15 percent from an almost five-year high on May 22. Shares have declined amid a strengthening
yen, disappointment about Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s growth
strategy and concern global stimulus will be reduced.  Drugmakers were the biggest drag on the Topix, falling for
the first time after posting a 5.8 percent gain in the past two
days. Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. and Astellas Pharma Inc., which
have a combined weighting of more than 40 percent on the Topix
Pharmaceutical Index, each fell more than 1.5 percent.  Shares on the Topix trade at 1.17 times  book value ,
compared with a high of 1.37 in May. The S&P 500 trades at 2.4
times book, while the figure is 1.6 times for the Stoxx Europe
600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Topix has swung an average of about 3.5 percent daily
since May 22. The gauge’s 30-day  historic volatility  was at
41.49 today, near its highest since the 2011 earthquake and
tsunami. The Nikkei Stock Average Volatility Index, which is
calculated using options prices, fell 1.9 percent to 38.34,
indicating traders expect a swing of about 11 percent for the
measure in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  