-- Japan Seen Ending Protectionism, Avoid ‘Second-Rate’ Role
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-06-18T15:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/japan-seen-ending-protectionism-avoid-second-rate-role.html
Japan  sees an urgency in overhauling
policies that favor domestic industries as it seeks to revive
the economy and join talks on a Pacific-region trade deal, the
government’s ambassador to the U.S. said.  “For the first time, people are seriously thinking that we
need to change some things,” Ambassador Kenichiro Sasae said
today during a Bloomberg Government breakfast in Washington.
“Otherwise we will become second-rate citizens of the world.”  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is seeking to end 15
years of deflation in the world’s third-largest economy through
regulatory reform and fiscal and monetary stimulus policies that
are known as Abenomics. Japan next month will join 11 nations
negotiating the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a free-trade
agreement that will create a region with annual economic output
of $26 trillion.  The  American Automotive Policy Council , representing  Ford
Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC, which is
majority-owned by Fiat SpA, has opposed Japan’s inclusion in the
talks, saying the government in  Tokyo  manipulates its currency
to favor exports and shuts out foreign competitors. The yen has
depreciated 23 percent against the dollar since September.  “The government can’t really manipulate these exchange
rates, to be frank,” Sasae said. “We haven’t really intervened
for some time to the market because it’s impossible to
control.” Perceptions of Japan as an inward-looking society
favoring domestic industries are “out of date,” he said.  Rice Hurdles  While the 11 nations in the Pacific talks seek to reach an
agreement by the end of the year, adding an economy with $5.9
trillion in annual output may complicate the process. The U.S.
Trade Representative’s office also has cited some of Japan’s
agricultural policies, including protections for rice farmers,
as barriers.  Sasae said he doesn’t expect Japan’s participation to slow
down negotiations. “There are some concerns expressed that
Japan is coming late, so there might be some delay of the
process,” he said. “I don’t think we are going to do it
because I think basically our market is open.”  Sasae said reaching an agreement this year with Australia,
Brunei, Canada,  Chile , Malaysia, Mexico,  New Zealand ,  Peru ,
Singapore, the U.S. and  Vietnam  is achievable.  “That is a very ambitious target, probably, but I don’t
think that that is an impossible task,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  