-- Afghans Take Lead Security Role as Karzai Outlines Peace Bid
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-06-18T09:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/karzai-hails-transition-as-afghan-forces-take-lead-security-role.html
Afghan forces are taking the lead
role in security nationwide, President  Hamid Karzai  said at a
ceremony in Kabul to mark the end of a transition as the U.S.-
led international coalition winds down its 12-year war.  As Karzai and NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen
prepared to speak in the capital, a suicide bomber exposed the
challenges facing the Afghan police and army as they confront
the insurgents, striking a convoy carrying a prominent lawmaker
and killing at least three civilians.  “Today is a historic day for Afghanistan,” Karzai said of
the milestone, as he stood alongside Rasmussen. “Afghan forces
are leading security” operations across the country.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  in January announced an
accelerated transfer to Afghan-led operations ahead of a
complete withdrawal of the 66,000 American combat troops
currently in  Afghanistan  by the end of 2014. As the exit of
foreign fighting forces nears, efforts to find a negotiated end
to the conflict will receive a boost later today with the
Taliban expected to open a political office in Qatar to aid
talks. Karzai said today he would soon send a team of High Peace
Council members to the Gulf state, and expressed his hope the
Taliban would recognize them as a talks partner.  International forces began the security transition in 2011
in the relatively peaceful central province of Bamiyan. Control
of the last 95 districts was formally handed to Afghan forces
today, according to the British Broadcasting Corp.  Of those, 13 are in Kandahar province, where the Taliban
insurgency began. Others are in Nangarhar, Khost and Paktika
provinces, all of which lie along the country’s disputed border
with  Pakistan , the  BBC  reported.  Security Void  While international training programs and assistance have
helped boost the manpower of the Afghan army and police to
352,000, they don’t yet have the expertise and equipment to fill
the void left by the departure of coalition troops, said Jawed
Kohestani, an independent Kabul-based security and political
analyst.  If that doesn’t change, “the transition may severely
affect Afghanistan’s security,” he said by phone.  Former U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said in February
that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization has talked about
leaving a force of 8,000-12,000 troops in Afghanistan for a
post-combat training role. Rasmussen and U.S. military officials
have declined to endorse any estimate of how many coalition
troops will be needed in Afghanistan to train and advise local
forces when NATO’s combat mission concludes.  Kabul Strikes  While NATO’s combat role will end, “Afghanistan will not
stand alone,” Rasmussen said earlier this month. “We will
still be there to train, advise and assist the Afghan security
forces.”  Today’s attack targeted Mohammad Mohaqiq, Hashmatullah
Stanekzai, the spokesman for Kabul’s police chief, said by
phone. Mohaqiq is a leader of the country’s ethnic Hazara
minority who was formerly part of the Northern Alliance that
fought the Taliban. He was unhurt while three of his security
guards were wounded.  Two strikes earlier this month in the heavily guarded
capital were aimed at the country’s  Supreme Court  -- killing at
least 15 people -- and buildings under construction adjacent to
the city’s airport.  Since the invasion of Afghanistan following the 2001
attacks on  New York  and  Washington , 3,336 coalition troops have
died, 2,238 of them from the U.S., according to the
 iCasualties.org  website which tracks the war. Deaths peaked at
711 in 2010 and have fallen to 87 so far this year, the website
data show.  Afghan civilians have paid an even greater price, with
2,754 killed amid clashes between the Taliban and security
forces in 2012 alone, according to the latest annual survey by
the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  