-- Kentucky Derby Winner Animal Kingdom Flops at Royal Ascot
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-06-18T17:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/kentucky-derby-winner-animal-kingdom-is-beaten-at-royal-ascot.html
Animal Kingdom , winner of the 2011
Kentucky Derby, finished down the field as Declaration Of War
won the Queen Anne Stakes on the first day of England’s Royal
Ascot meeting.  The four-year-old winner, ridden by Joseph O’Brien and
trained by his father Aidan, had odds of 15-2. Aljamaaheer was
second at 8-1 with Gregorian (16-1) third.  “I was going very well,” jockey O’Brien told Channel 4
television after accelerating to victory. “I just went into the
gap. I was going exceptionally well. He’s a very good horse.”  Animal Kingdom, the 5-4 favorite ridden by  John Velazquez 
and trained by Maryland-based Englishman Graham Motion, finished
almost last of the 13 runners after his first straight-mile
contest. The race, on turf, carried a top prize of 198,000
pounds ($310,000).  “He went up to the start perfectly well and he came out of
the gates fine,” Velazquez said. “He was pulling pretty
strong, and when I let him go he didn’t have it. There were no
signs early and he was there for me, but he wasn’t when I needed
him. I’m very disappointed for him.”  In March, Animal Kingdom won the $10 million Dubai  World
Cup , the world’s richest race. The five-year-old American-bred
colt was the first  Kentucky Derby  winner to compete at Royal
Ascot since Omaha 77 years ago.  Barry Irwin’s Team Valor, which bred Animal Kingdom, sold a
majority interest in him to John Messara’s Arrowfield Stud in
 Australia . After more than $8 million in lifetime winnings, the
horse is now set to retire from racing and begin his stud career
there in September.  Other Races  Among other races today, Dawn Approach (5-4 favorite) won
the St. James’s Palace Stakes after flopping in the Epsom Derby.
Sole Power (8-1) won the King’s Stand Stakes sprint, and trainer
O’Brien’s War Command (20-1) took the Coventry Stakes.  The five-day Royal Ascot meeting, west of  London , is the
richest in the U.K. with prize money of 5 million pounds.  Queen Elizabeth II  and other members of Britain’s Royal Family were
present today.  There was a minute’s silence before racing in honor of
Henry Cecil, who died last week at age 70. He trained a record
75 winners at the royal meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 