-- King Eyes Parting Shot at Bankers Gearing Up for Carney
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-06-19T09:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/king-eyes-parting-shot-at-bankers-as-london-gears-up-for-carney.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
will return to the scene of some of his most acidic public
encounters today for the annual occasion that helped define his
relationship with Britain’s banking industry.  King will speak for the 10th time at the Mansion House,
less than 400 feet from the BOE’s doors in the  City of London ,
as the capital’s financial district is known. His appearance at
the event for bankers alongside Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  occurs just days before he cedes his role to
former Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney .  King previously used the occasion to tell banks they need
more capital and to call for the government to work out how to
curb the  budget deficit . Since his last speech, he has wondered
aloud on why citizens aren’t angrier with bankers, and relations
with the finance industry reached a nadir as he forced out
Barclays Plc Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  in the Libor
scandal.  “I wouldn’t be surprised if he has a few choice words to
say about the City, remuneration and risk taking,” said Keith Wade, chief economist at  Schroders Plc (SDR) , which has $359 billion
under management. “Carney has been a banker at Goldman so he’ll
probably be different. He’ll probably be more sympathetic to the
banking system and recognize the pressures that exist there.”  King, who began his career as an academic, will be replaced
on July 1 by Carney, who previously worked at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. He will deliver his speech, a traditional June
highlight of the City’s calendar, at 9 p.m. at the 18th century
residence of the  Lord Mayor  of  London .  Shifting Views  King’s Mansion House speeches have shifted from reflections
on the success of inflation targeting, to veiled criticism of
the previous Labour government’s fiscal plans, to presenting a
 united front  with Osborne.  At his first one in 2004, King predicted robust growth and
pledged the central bank would maintain focus on  price
stability . He also warned then-Chancellor  Gordon Brown  to ensure
his spending plans were “sustainable.”  “He spoke about the great moderation with evident
satisfaction,” said  John Greenwood , chief international
economist at Invesco Asset Management in London. “That
concealed growing leverage and the potential for enormous
instability.”  By 2007, on the eve of the financial crisis, he noted the
potential risks of exotic financial instruments and concerns on
credit expansion, while also musing on the “remarkable decade”
the British economy had just enjoyed.  Neglect  “The truth of the matter is that he neglected his
financial stability objective ahead of the crisis, though I
guess he would say he didn’t use his megaphone,” said Chris Scicluna, an economist at Daiwa Capital Markets in London and a
former Treasury official.  A run on deposits at Northern Rock Plc took place less than
three months later. By the time of his June 2008 speech, the
crisis was about to intensify, while inflation had strayed well
above the government’s 3 percent limit. Both then-Chancellor
Alistair Darling and King recognized the squeeze on living
costs. King noted a global credit crunch heralded the end of a
‘NICE’ decade of non-inflationary consistent expansion.  The 2008 event was the scene of the “unforgivable” leak
that  John Gieve  would quit as deputy governor, which the
government had agreed wouldn’t be announced for a few days,
Darling wrote in his memoirs. King was “livid” and blamed the
office of then-Prime Minister Gordon Brown.  Storm Clouds  Storm clouds gathering over the financial system soon
provoked the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September. Within days, the government rescued banks including
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, which remains in public hands.
By the 2009 event, the BOE had cut its  interest rate  to a
record-low 0.5 percent and started printing money to stave off a
depression.  King’s speech publicly called on the government to produce
a “clear plan” to tackle the deficit, a gauntlet thrown at
Darling in the audience. He also called for the bank to receive
enhanced powers to improve financial resilience.  Darling received a copy of King’s speech just hours before
delivery, and regarded it as “a blatant bid for the bank to
take over the regulation of banks.” King was straying “into
dangerous territory,” Darling wrote.  The Labour government was replaced in May 2010 by the
current Conservative-led coalition. Since then, King and Osborne
have tended to present a more united front at the Mansion House
as the government squeezes the  budget deficit .  BOE Minutes  Today’s event is the last before a regime change at the
BOE, and follows an acrimonious year in London’s finance
industry. After the 2012 speech, King forced Diamond to quit
Barclays, while on a radio interview this month, he said Britons
have “every right to be angry” with banks.  The bank published the minutes of his final Monetary Policy
Committee meeting today, and they show he and two colleagues
suffered a fifth consecutive defeat in a push to expand
quantitative easing by 25 billion pounds ($39 billion). The six-member majority said the impact of previous quantitative-easing
rounds and the Funding for Lending Scheme, announced at last
year’s Mansion House speech, were yet to be felt.  “There’s a tradition in the City of regulation by the
raising of the governor’s eyebrow, and Carney is going to have
to pull the same trick,” Malcolm Bracken, an investment manager
in Hitchin, England at 138-year-old stockbroker Redmayne
Bentley. “Carney’s got a big reputation but he also has big
boots to fill. King is quite well respected in the City.”  Japan Exports  Elsewhere, Japan’s exports rose more than forecast in May
as a weaker yen boosted the value of overseas sales,
underscoring the profit boon for manufacturers from Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s reflation campaign. The value of shipments
abroad increased 10 percent in May from a year earlier, the most
since 2010 and exceeding the 6.4 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists, a Finance Ministry report
showed in Tokyo. At the same time, export volume dropped 4.8
percent.  In Europe, an index of Swedish  consumer confidence  rose to
98.2 in June from 97.7 in May, while the  unemployment rate  fell
to 8.2 percent in May from 8.7 percent the previous month. In
 Switzerland  an index of investor confidence was unchanged at 2.2
in June. The U.S. Federal Reserve concludes a two-day meeting on
monetary policy in  Washington , with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  set
to give a press briefing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  