-- King of Down-Market Offices Bets on Rentals: Real Estate
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-06-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/king-of-down-market-offices-bets-on-rentals-real-estate.html
Los Angeles ’s largest private office
landlord, a former doctor with a portfolio of buildings that
have seen better days, is turning his focus to apartments as the
city’s demand for rentals surges.  David Lee, the founder and president of  Jamison Services
Inc. , has $3.5 billion of mostly 20-to-30-year-old properties
with minimalist lobbies, mid-tier retail on the bottom floors
and often little or no landscaping. He is converting five of his
about 60 Los Angeles office buildings, many located in the
Koreatown neighborhood, to multifamily and is seeking more
opportunities, including ground-up development, to capitalize on
rising demand from apartment renters.  “I follow money,” said Lee, 58, who focused on internal
medicine at  Northwestern University  and was a general
practitioner until 2004. “We need more apartments. If you
create creative residential space, you can get double the rent
as compared to office.”  Jamison’s 13.3 million square feet (1.2 million square
meters) of offices make it the largest closely held office owner
in the Los Angeles area, according to  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) 
and  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP)  Shrinking demand for corporate space has
sent vacancies at Lee’s properties up to an average of 25
percent, more than triple what they were four years ago.
Apartment demand, meanwhile, is climbing as parts of the city
including downtown, Hollywood and now Koreatown undergo a
renaissance, said Bennett Kim, managing principal at  Big Rock
Partners LLC .  Makes Sense  “Conversions do make sense for him,” said Kim, whose
Beverly Hills, California-based real estate investment firm has
owned Koreatown properties. Gross monthly rents for offices in
the area are the “lowest in all of L.A.” at $1.50 a square
foot -- half what multifamily buildings in the neighborhood
draw, he said. “Seeing that opportunity, it makes sense to
shift.”  Across Los Angeles County, office vacancies averaged 16.8
percent in the first quarter, up from 5.8 percent during the
market’s most recent peak, in the first three months of 2008,
according to brokerage CBRE Group Inc. Gross monthly rents fell
to $2.58 a square foot from $2.84 over the same period.  Apartment vacancies in the county, meanwhile, dropped to
3.2 percent in the first quarter from their most recent high of
5.5 percent in early 2010, according to New York-based research
firm  Reis Inc.  Gross monthly rents for one-bedroom apartments in
 Santa Monica , an area Lee hopes Koreatown will eventually
resemble in its mix of trendy multifamily complexes, young
residents and hip restaurants and stores, climbed to $3.23 a
square foot in the first quarter from $3.06 three years earlier.  Shifting Demand  “After the recession, many people have been relocating
into downtown and other areas of the city,” said Don Hankey,
chairman of  Hankey Group , a partner with Lee on an office-to-apartment conversion in Koreatown. “They don’t want to or can’t
own a home, but instead they don’t mind smaller living spaces
that are close to entertainment and culture.”  Jamison Services’ headquarters in Koreatown reflects the
type of real estate the 30-employee firm owns, as well as Lee’s
style of property management. The 12-story building at  3424
Wilshire Blvd. , with its grayish-brown facade, has a RadioShack
and a Big 5 Sporting Goods discounter on the ground floor, and a
small, unadorned lobby with low ceilings.  Lee’s uncluttered corner office on the top floor,
overlooking many of his company’s buildings, is decorated with a
handful of golf plaques on otherwise empty walls. Lee, in an
interview from a seating area in the room, said he plays the
game once or twice a month.  Hands Off  “Lee has a reputation for never doing much to or at his
office buildings, and he rarely ever increases rents,” said
 Curtis Palmer , head of CBRE Capital Markets’ multifamily group,
based in  Beverly Hills . “So he never delivers much in terms of
yield increases. But there is good yield to be had in
multifamily.”  At  California  Market Center in downtown Los Angeles, the
rent on Michael Gay’s office has risen little in the eight years
Lee has owned the property. In that time, indications that the
wholesale center for fashion is being actively managed have all
but vanished, Gay said.  “Since Lee’s company took over the building, they cut back
on staff and the upkeep of the building,” said Gay, 63, owner
of the Rep Et Trois showroom. “We always move around large
rolling racks, so there’s a lot of chipped paint on corners.
Areas where there are garbage chutes are stained black. No one
from management is going around to take care of this. It all
looks quite dilapidated.”  Management Style  Jamison’s management style is to provide little maintenance
or extra amenities, Lee said.  Lee, who has a master’s degree in business administration
from the  University of California, Los Angeles , has more than
 100 commercial properties  through Jamison Services, including
two Las Vegas golf courses. There is about $2 billion in debt on
the $3.5 billion portfolio, and Lee holds about 30 percent of
the equity on the properties, he said. The rest belongs to high-net-worth individuals including family and friends.  In December 2011, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
ordered Lee’s removal as a director of Premier Business Bank,
and he had to pay a civil penalty of $75,000, according to
regulatory filing. The alleged violation related to a loan
secured by one of Lee’s office buildings made by Premier Bank to
an entity owned by his mother-in-law and her daughters,
including Lee’s wife, Miki M. Nam. Lee, who denied the
allegations, agreed to step down.  He wouldn’t comment on the issue.  Buying Buildings  Lee has six siblings and four grown children with Nam, a
dentist by training. He immigrated with his parents from  Seoul 
in 1971, and started buying office properties in Los Angeles at
the end of 1994, two years after the Rodney King riots ravaged
the neighborhood and months after the Northridge earthquake
shook the region. Debt-to-equity ratios averaged 75 percent at
the time, compared with 65 percent to 70 percent today, he said.  “If he can hold on to all his buildings, he is sitting on
a goldmine,” said Carl Muhlstein, a managing director at
brokerage Jones Lang LaSalle. “There is an insatiable
residential demand, especially on mid-Wilshire, where most of
his properties are.”  The drop in occupancies and the U.S. economic slump have
probably hurt the values of Lee’s properties, Muhlstein said.  “Nobody could come out pristine buying over 100 buildings
in a 15-year time frame using debt,” he said.  Paramount Plaza  Among Lee’s holdings where demand has slumped is Wilshire
Boulevard’s Paramount Plaza. The property was built in 1969 and
backs a loan with an original balance of $96 million, according
to a March 7 regulatory filing. Occupancy at the building,
appraised at $141.4 million as of October, dropped to 72 percent
as of January from 90 percent in 2007, according to the mortgage
prospectus.  When Lee made his first purchases in the early 1990s, real
estate “wasn’t that analytical,” he said. “We didn’t have all
the  information systems  we have today. But I knew prices had
dropped dramatically, and since I have a Korean background, I
just thought I could get Koreans into my buildings.”  Today, Jamison Services is seeking rezoning approval to
turn another Wilshire Boulevard office building into an 84-unit
apartment property, according to Palmer of CBRE. Lee, who tends
not to use brokers for his transactions, declined to give
details of buildings slated for redevelopment because the plans
haven’t been disclosed yet to current tenants.  Loft-Like  Lee is close to completing the reconstruction of a 10-story
office building at 3075 Wilshire Blvd. into 123 apartments, in a
partnership with  Hankey Group , a Los Angeles-based investment
firm. The property, which had a 40 percent vacancy rate when it
was a mid-tier office building, will have loft-like units with
high ceilings, a fitness center and sauna, lobbies where
residents can “hang out with friends,” and a business center,
Lee said.  Don Hankey, who also is seeking entitlements to construct
an apartment building in the area, estimates the value of the
redeveloped property at $38 million, given an expected gross
rent of $2.50 a square foot. That’s more than triple the $12
million it was worth as a vacant office building, he said.  The area Lee focuses on “is already one of most densely
populated areas of L.A., and it has public transportation,”
said Muhlstein of LaSalle. “A residential bonanza could be
imminent there,” as happened downtown, he said.  Of the 30,602 residential units in downtown Los Angeles,
more than 60 percent were developed since an adaptive-reuse
ordinance was put in place in June 1999, according to  Cushman &
Wakefield  and the  Downtown Center Business Improvement District .
Office-to-residential conversions include the San Fernando
Building in 2000, and the Historic Gas Company Lofts in 2004,
with a total of 51 buildings reworked since 1999, according to
Cushman data.  Modern Desire  One possible obstacle to success for Lee’s conversion plans
is that many young tenants today prefer newly built apartment
properties, such as a $190 million project that developer Jerry Snyder is erecting in the Koreatown area.  Snyder is constructing two towers with 464 units and
ground-floor retail on the busy corner of Wilshire Boulevard and
Vermont Avenue. The project will feature a pool, spa, meeting
rooms and above-street parking. Units start on the eighth floor
and will all have views of the cityscape, said Snyder, founder
of Los Angeles-based J.H. Snyder Co.  ‘On Fire’  “The residential market is on fire, but particularly here
it is very strong,” he said. “The type of people that are here
want new, they want modern, they want big gyms, they want
meeting rooms.”  Lee, for his part, is focusing on repurposing buildings he
believes will draw residential tenants -- particularly those
young renters who appreciate the “edgy feel” of a redeveloped
building, he said. More apartment properties also will help draw
additional nightlife and restaurants to the area, Lee said.  “I saw the demand for downtown lofts, where people
literally had to step over the homeless to get to their
apartments, but they still were coming into the area,” he said.
“Now you have all this entertainment and restaurants down
there. That’s when I said let’s do conversions here too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  