-- NASA Courts Industry to Put 500-Ton Asteroid in Moon’s Orbit
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-06-18T10:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/nasa-courts-industry-to-put-500-ton-asteroid-in-moon-s-orbit.html
The U.S. space agency is counting on
private investors to help invent and manufacture new
technologies to protect the Earth from stray asteroids.  Industry executives will be  briefed today  in  Washington 
about the planned 2025 mission to drag a giant space rock
into orbit around the moon, in a test of whether asteroids can be
steered clear of earth, National Aeronautics and Space
Administration chief Charles Bolden told reporters today in
Vienna during a visit to the United Nations space agency.  “The technology isn’t developed yet,” Bolden said. “The
things we’re trying to do are global issues bigger than any one
nation can or should undertake.”  While most large asteroids that could trigger a global
catastrophe have been found and tracked, smaller space objects
remain a threat. A Feb. 15 meteor blast over  Russia  blew out
windows and injured 1,200 people in Chelyabinsk. The unforeseen
event reignited debate over defending again space threats.  “The average person is oblivious to the threat,” Bolden
said. “Unlike other natural disasters, we can avert this. It
allows us to avoid becoming like the dinosaurs.”  A 10-kilometer-wide asteroid is  said  to have caused the
extinction of dinosaurs 65 million years ago when it struck off
the coast of  Mexico ’s Yucatan peninsula.  NASA has already identified three potential asteroids
measuring as much as 10 meters (33 feet) in diameter that could
be targeted by the mission, Bolden said. Astronauts could need
as long as 18 months to drag the object into the moon’s orbit.
Its 500 metric-ton weight would compare to the 560 metric-ton
maximum  takeoff weight  of an Airbus A380 superjumbo.  An asteroid on a collision course could possibly be
deflected with a spacecraft, redirected with a “gravity
tractor” hovering nearby or, as a last resort, targeted with a
nuclear explosion. Bolden declined to speculate which
redirection technologies would be used on the mission.  Placing an asteroid in orbit around the moon will also
create legal and diplomatic challenges here on Earth, Bolden
said.  NASA  is consulting with the UN and allies to discuss
asteroid rights of use and ownership when it reaches orbit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  