-- National ‘Dog’ ETFs Beat MSCI Gauge Since 1997: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-06-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/national-dog-etfs-beat-msci-gauge-since-1997-chart-of-the-day.html
Stock investors would be better off
focusing on the world’s worst-performing markets each year than
spreading their money around globally, according to the results
of a new study.  The CHART OF THE DAY illustrates this by comparing the
performance of a “Dogs of the World” strategy with the MSCI
All-Country World Index, tracking shares of companies based in
developed and  emerging markets , since 1997. The dogs were the
five biggest laggards among countries in the index.  Exchange-traded country funds were used to calculate the
figures depicted in the chart. The numbers came from a June 13
paper by  David M. Smith , an associate professor at the State
University of New York at  Albany , and Vladimir Pantilei, a
student at the school.  The strategy surpassed the All-Country World “to a degree
that compensates for its higher return volatility,” their  paper 
said. One example of the latter was recorded in 2011, when the
dogs fell 19 percent as MSCI’s index lost 7.6 percent.  Smith and Pantilei assumed each country ETF was bought at
the beginning of a year and held for five years. The period was
set to capitalize on mean reversion, or a tendency for returns
to average out over time. They also assumed 20 percent of the
total amount was invested each year from 1997 through 2001.  The strategy is a variation of the “Dogs of the Dow,” or
buying the five stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average with
the highest dividend yield at the beginning of each year. Both
approaches were developed by Michael O’Higgins, a Miami-based
investor who runs his own money-management firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in  New York  at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  