-- NCAA Is Studying Lacrosse Championship’s 42% Attendance Skid
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-06-18T18:46:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/ncaa-is-studying-lacrosse-championship-s-42-attendance-skid.html
The  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  and lacrosse coaches are trying to determine why
attendance at the sport’s top event has declined for five
straight years even as participation is setting records.  The NCAA’s committee that oversees championships will
discuss the decline from 48,970 in 2008 to 28,224, or 42
percent, in August. The Intercollegiate Men’s Lacrosse Coaches
Association has appointed a  committee  to research the issue and
report its findings to the NCAA.  The decline comes as the sport is setting records for
participation. The number of high school boys’ and girls’
lacrosse programs increased 30 percent between 2007-08 and
2011-12, according to the  National Federation of State High
School Associations participation report . The number of men’s
and women’s teams in the NCAA’s top division rose 16 percent
since 2007-2008, according to the NCAA.  “We want to see if we can get back to some of the numbers
we had in the past,” said Anthony Holman, the NCAA’s associate
director of championships and alliances. “But we don’t want to
be too quick to react, thinking something is broken.”  Attendance at the women’s championship, which draws about a
third of the men’s, has risen for two years.  Among the potential reasons for the decline that will be
explored are more television exposure, higher ticket prices and
the tradition of holding the event Memorial Day weekend, Holman
said.  “Five to 10 years ago, if you wanted to see top level
lacrosse you were going to come to our championship,” Holman
said. “But the things that used to be unique to our
championship aren’t necessarily unique anymore.”  Holman says fans used to look forward to one opportunity to
see the best players in the nation gather on championship
weekend. Now, they watch them all year at home. ESPN broadcast
35 regular-season games this past season, averaging 51,000
viewers per telecast across three ESPN channels.  TV Ratings  The TV audience for the championship game was 496,000 U.S.
households this May, up 27 percent from last year, according to
the network.  While television is probably good for growing the sport, it
can also negatively affect a fan’s decision to spend thousands
of dollars to travel to a three-day tournament on a holiday
weekend, Holman said.  “We’re not burying our heads in the sand,” Holman said in
an interview. “There is an uninttended consequence to growth,
broadcasts and exposure.”  While attendance at the sport’s premier event is slipping,
lacrosse is growing.  The number of high school boys’ and girls’ lacrosse
programs increased by 1,017, according to the National
Federation of State High School Association’s participation
report. Meanwhile, the number of men’s and women’s teams in the
NCAA’s top division increased by 23, or 16 percent, between
2007-2008 and this year, according to the governing body.  Women’s Attendance  While the men’s championship attendance has been in
decline, women’s has been  rising  the past two years.  North Carolina beat  Maryland  13-12 in triple overtime to
capture the Division I women’s title in front of 9,391 at
Villanova University outside Philadelphia, up 32 percent from
last year’s 7,127. The best turnout was in 2010 when 9,782
witnessed Maryland beat Northwestern 13-11 in Towson, Maryland.
All-session general admission tickets sold for $25, up from $20
the past two years, according to the NCAA.  For the men’s championship, an all-session pass that
allowed fans to watch the Division I semifinal and championship
games and the Division II and Division III championship games in
premium seating cost $135 this year, more than twice the $60 it
cost in 2006. For comparison, a four-day ticket to last  week’s
U.S. Open at Merion Golf Club near Philadelphia were priced at
$175.  Ticket Prices  Individual lacrosse game tickets that cost $40 for the
Division I championship were held back until the beginning of
May to encourage fans to buy the more expensive package.  Lee Stevens, tournament director for this year’s
championship, is recommending the NCAA start selling single game
tickets now for next year’s tournament in Baltimore, and
consider hosting just the Division I, II and III finals so the
tournament can be pared to one or two days, rather than three.
That would reduce the time commitment and cost of hotels and
restaurants for families, he said.  Attendance  at the Division I men’s lacrosse championship
peaked in 2008 when 48,970 watched Syracuse beat  Johns Hopkins
University , 13-10, in Foxborough,  Massachusetts .  Attendance hasn’t been as low as this year’s 28,224 for
Duke’s 16-10 victory over Syracuse at Lincoln Financial Field in
Philadelphia since the 2002 game when Syracuse defeated
Princeton 13-12 in front of 19,706 in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey .  Position Paper  In addition to the NCAA conversation in August, the coaches
association will submit a position paper to the NCAA in time for
the summer meeting.  Duke Coach John Danowski said the NCAA should delay the
championship a week so it doesn’t interfere with the holiday,
and should consider moving the games out of 75,000-seat NFL
stadiums and into smaller venues.  “You make it supply and demand. ‘I have to get my ticket
early,’” Danowski said. “It might only be 25,000, but it’s
sold out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  