-- Netflix Creates ’Families’ Page in Bid to Win Subscribers
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-06-18T14:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/netflix-creates-families-page-in-bid-to-win-subscribers.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the biggest online
subscription video service, is making it easier for families and
new customers to find and watch its films and television shows,
as it pushes kids programming to win more subscribers.  “Netflix Families,” a new page on the company’s website
introduced today, will feature rows of curated content, designed
to appeal to families as they embark on vacations and keep kids
occupied in the summer months when family viewing hours increase
by about 30 percent, the company said in a statement.  “We’ve used our proprietary algorithm to create lists we
think families will love,” said  Ted Sarandos , Netflix’s chief
content officer.  Netflix, with more than 36 million subscribers globally, is
seeking to grow its user base and distance itself from rivals by
adding more exclusive and family-oriented programming to its
service. The company yesterday said it agreed to buy content
from  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , giving it shows inspired
characters from the company’s movies and its library of classic
programs.  New rows on the “Families” page include “Are We There
Yet?,” and “TV for Curious Kids,” the latter featuring
programs that “will help keep kids’ minds active,” the company
said. The page will also offer information on the best ways to
stream and will be available to members and non-members.  Individual Profiles  This summer, Netflix will also begin allowing family
members to set up individual profiles, recommendations and
viewing lists on the new page, Joris Evers, a spokesman, said in
a separate e-mailed statement.  Netflix charges $7.99 a month for its mix of TV reruns, old
movies and original shows.  The company’s stock surged 7.1 percent yesterday after
announcing the DreamWorks Animation deal, extending its lead as
the best performer in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index this year.
The shares rose 0.2 percent to $229.66 at 10:47 a.m.  New York 
time today. Netflix will get 300 hours of new programming in
what it says is its biggest commitment yet to original content.  The agreement builds on other exclusive rights Netflix has
to family-friendly entertainment, including shows and movies by
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  