-- News Corp. Reporter, Prison Guard to Be Charged in Bribery Probe
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-06-18T11:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/news-corp-reporter-prison-guard-to-be-charged-in-bribery-probe.html
A  News Corp. (NWSA)  journalist at its Sun
tabloid and a prison guard will be charged with conspiring to
commit misconduct in a public office as part of a probe into
wrongdoing at the company.  Nick Parker, the newspaper’s chief foreign correspondent,
paid Lee Brockhouse 1,750 pounds ($2,735) for information on
well-known individuals from 2007 and 2009, the U.K. Crown
Prosecution Service said in an e-mailed statement. The pair were
ordered to appear at a London court July 11.  News Corp. newspapers have been the focus of wide-ranging
investigations over the past three years that have uncovered
alleged phone hacking and bribery at the two newspapers. News
Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed the News of the World
tabloid after revelations journalists had illegally accessed
messages on the mobile phone of a murdered school girl.  “It is alleged that information provided by Lee Brockhouse
included that relating to the movement of prisoners, prison
procedures and methods used by prisoners to smuggle items into
prison,” Gregor McGill, a lawyer with the CPS, said in a
statement about the latest charges.  Dan McMillan, a spokesman for News Corp.’s U.K. unit,
declined to comment.  The charges against Parker follow similar bribery
allegations against other editorial staff, including the
tabloid’s executive editor Fergus Shanahan and deputy editor
Geoff Webster.  Brockhouse is also alleged to have given information to
 Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI) ’s Sunday People tabloid in exchange for 900
pounds, CPS said. A Trinity Mirror spokesman declined to comment
on the allegations.  About 80 journalists and public officials have been
arrested in connection with the criminal probes so far. A three-month trial into allegations of voice-mail interception is
scheduled to start in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  