-- NLB First to Transfer Bad Loans to Slovenia’s Bad Bank
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-06-18T12:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/nlb-to-be-first-to-transfer-bad-loans-to-slovenia-s-asset-co-.html
Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., will be
the first Slovenian bank to transfer bad loans to the state-owned bank  asset management company  this month as part of
efforts to recapitalize the ailing financial industry.  NLB will transfer 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) in bad
loans, more than the initially planned 1.3 billion euros, the
asset management company, known as the bad bank, said in a
document in the capital Ljubljana today. Bad loans held by
Slovenian banks amounted to 19 percent of total loans, or about
7 billion euros, according to an April report by the
Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development.  The bad bank will focus on the top three Slovenian banks
including NLB, Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. and Abanka Vipa
d.d., while other lenders may also transfer their assets at a
later time, bad bank President Andrej Sircelj told reporters in
Ljubljana today. The government wants to move 3.34 billion euros
of bad loans to the bad bank, it said in its overhaul program
last month.  “I am quite confident that the first transfers will happen
by June 28 and we are talking about the first substantial
assets,” Torbjorn Mansson, the asset company’s acting executive
director, said at the same briefing.  The Adriatic nation pledged to fix its bank industry by
transferring bad loans to the state-owned agency as well as by a
direct capital boost of about 900 million euros for the largest
banks, to avoid asking its European partners for aid.  Budget Gap  The European Commission, which extended the deadline for
Slovenia to narrow the budget gap to 2015, said the Cabinet of
Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek must be ready to provide more
capital for lenders and ordered an independent assessment of the
banks’ capital needs.  The bank asset management company said it won’t speculate
on the amount of bad loans at Slovenian banks and said it will
do its own valuation of assets when they are transferred,
Mansson said.  The estimate of 900 million euros capital need for
Slovenia’s top banks comes from the central bank, the government
has said. The government also plans to change legislation to
allow for a longer lifespan than the bank asset company’s five
years, Finance Minister Uros Cufer has said.  ‘Fire Sale’  “We will not be selling prices at fire sale prices and we
should be able to hold on to assets as long as it’s economically
viable,” Lars Nyberg, vice president of the management board
said today. The company “will aim to get higher value for bad
assets than the banks themselves could have done.”  Nyberg said the bad bank will also seek to change
legislation so the company doesn’t need to sell 10 percent of
assets each year.  The yield on Slovenia’s benchmark dollar-denominated bond
maturing in 2022 declined for a fifth consecutive session today,
dropping 1 basis point from yesterday to 6.046 percent at 12:33
p.m. in Ljubljana, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost of operating the bank asset management company
will be as much as 40 million euros and will be borne by banks
transferring their bad loans to the company, Mansson said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  