-- Norway Seen Keeping Rates Unchanged After Tempering Krone Gains
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-06-18T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/norway-seen-keeping-rates-unchanged-after-tempering-krone-gains.html
Norway ’s central bank will probably
keep interest rates unchanged after successfully curbing gains
in the krone and bringing inflation closer to its target.  Norges Bank will leave its overnight deposit rate at 1.5
percent in a decision scheduled to be announced at 10 a.m.
tomorrow in Oslo, according to 21 of the 22 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. One economist estimates the bank will cut to 1.25
percent.  DNB ASA (DNB)  and  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the two-largest lenders in
Norway, predicted the bank will raise its forecast for rates,
removing any signal of a reduction this year.  After easing twice, Governor Oeystein Olsen has kept the
benchmark unchanged for more than a year while signaling the
bank is ready to act to prevent krone strength from undermining
its inflation target and the economy. The krone has slid 4.9
percent this year versus the euro as the bank in March warned
rates may be cut and the region’s debt turmoil eased.  “The market isn’t prepared for an upward revision of the
interest rate forecast,”  Erik Bruce , senior economist at Nordea
Bank AB, said in a note. “By taking out the rather high
probability for a cut in the third quarter and forecast a
somewhat earlier hike, market rates should move upwards and the
kroner should strengthen.”  Housing Market  While flagging for lower rates, policy makers have been
reluctant to cut rates to avoid stoking debt growth even as
inflation has held below the 2.5 percent target since mid-2009.
Near record-low borrowing costs have helped boost  house prices 
by 24 percent since 2010 and pushed private debt levels to about
200 percent of disposable incomes.  The bank’s efforts to bring inflation toward target by
limiting krone gains paid off last month as headline price
growth accelerated to 2 percent, the highest since January 2011.  The overheating housing market will keep the bank from
cutting rates, Arne Lohmann Rasmussen, chief analyst at  Danske
Bank A/S (DANSKE) , said by the phone.  “They will probably try to underline to households that
eventually, rates will go up,” he said.  The weakening krone may also mitigate some of the
difficulties brought on by the currency’s 20 percent surge since
2008. Norway, which is western  Europe ’s biggest oil exporter and
has no net debt, emerged as a haven during the debt crisis.  Slowing Growth  The $480 billion economy is starting to suffer from the
fallout of the euro area’s shrinking economy, pushing
unemployment to the highest since May 2010 as companies grapple
with the strong krone and manufacturing labor costs that are
nearly 70 percent higher than the average in the European Union.  The central bank also said last week that Norwegian oil
suppliers see slowing growth over the next six months and most
areas of enterprise in the Nordic country have lowered growth
estimates since the start of the year. The bank said that
manufacturing focused on Norway, as well as the export industry
and retail businesses foresaw “slightly higher” growth, while
oil industry suppliers expected slower growth, the bank said.  DNB said it anticipates the central bank will lift its
 interest rate  forecast by 5 basis points to 1.5 percent in 2013,
removing a “short-term downward bias” from March.  “In our view, on balance, inflation-related factors and
real economic factors will cancel each-other out,” said Kjersti Haugland, a senior economist at DNB, in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  