-- Tombini Says Brazil Working to Limit Price Impact of Weaker Real
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-06-18T19:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/tombini-says-brazil-working-to-limit-price-impact-of-weaker-real.html
Brazil ’s central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said policy makers are working to reduce the
inflationary pressure that may stem from a drop in the real, the
worst performing major currency in the past month.  Brazil is prepared to face the “adverse winds” of a
stronger dollar and has the capacity to make the currency market
function adequately, Tombini told the Senate’s Economic Affairs
Committee in Brasilia today. Speculation that the U.S. Federal
Reserve may dial back its asset-buying program has strengthened
the dollar worldwide, including against the real, which touched
a four-year low today.  “The actions of the central bank are meant to consolidate
lower inflation and mitigate the effects of the dollar’s
strengthening in relation to the real,” Tombini said. “A
flexible exchange rate regime and the adequate management of
monetary policy reduce the possible pass-through of currency
depreciation to inflation.”  Brazil’s central bank today intervened in the currency
market for the eighth time in June to arrest the real’s slide.
Finance Minister Guido Mantega this month lifted taxes on bets
against the dollar in the futures market and foreign purchases
of Brazilian debt as a means of boosting liquidity. Still,
Brazil’s currency has fallen 6.4 percent over the last month.  President Dilma Rousseff’s administration is caught between
inflation at the upper limit of the central bank’s target range
and growth that has fallen short of economists’ forecasts for
five straight quarters. Her government this year extended tax
cuts and subsidized credit lines to fuel recovery, while the
central bank started raising interest rates in April to cool
consumer prices.  Swap Rates  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2014, the most
traded in Sao Paulo today, rose nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 8.97 percent at 4:10 p.m. local time. The
real weakened 0.3 percent to 2.1776 per U.S. dollar.  The world’s second-biggest emerging market expanded 0.55
percent in the  first three months  of 2013, missing economists’
forecasts of a 0.9 percent increase.  Economists have cut their 2013 growth forecast for five
straight weeks to 2.49 percent from 3 percent on May 10,
according to the latest weekly central bank survey. The bank
forecasts 3.1 percent expansion this year.  Consumer prices rose 6.50  in May  from last year, compared
with 6.49 percent in April. Inflation prompted policy makers to
double the pace of benchmark rate increases last month by
raising the Selic 50 basis points to 8 percent. The central bank
targets inflation at 4.5 percent plus or minus two percentage
points.  Tombini said annual inflation will probably accelerate in
the short term, before receding in the second half.  “I can assure you that the central bank is vigilant and
will do what it takes, in a timely way, to put inflation in a
declining path in the second half,” Tombini said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  