-- Lone Star Tops Property Raising With $6 Billion Target
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-06-18T20:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/lone-star-tops-property-raising-with-6-billion-target.html
Lone Star  Funds, the biggest buyer
of delinquent mortgages, is leading the fundraising pack for
real estate private equity with a $6 billion target for a pool
to buy distressed commercial-property debt and equity.  The firm, based in  Dallas , plans to begin gathering pledges
for Lone Star Real Estate Fund III as early as this month,  John Grayken , the company’s founder and chairman, said at a meeting
with the state of  Oregon ’s pension trustees in May. Lone Star is
seeking as much as $6 billion, according to Anthony Breault,
interim senior real estate investment officer for the Oregon
State Treasury, a longtime investor in  Lone Star funds .  Lone Star is among firms including Carlyle Group LP, TPG
Capital and KKR & Co. that are seeking more money for real
estate and capitalizing on investors’ search for higher returns
as 10-year Treasury notes hover around a 2.2 percent yield.
Blackstone Group LP last year collected $13.3 billion of pledges
for the biggest-ever private real estate fund.  “Fundraising is still quite difficult out there, but Lone
Star has a longstanding track record of success in raising large
amounts of capital,” said Steve Coyle, chief investment officer
for global private real estate opportunity strategies at  Cohen &
Steers Inc. (CNS)  in  New York . “I would expect them to be one of the
winners.”  Lone Star last month finished raising a residential-focused
real estate fund, Lone Star Fund VIII, with $5.1 billion.  Jed Repko, a spokesman for Lone Star at the public
relations firm Joele Frank, Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher, declined
to comment on fundraising.  Seventh Fund  Carlyle, the world’s second-biggest manager of alternative
assets, is seeking to raise $4 billion for its seventh real
estate fund, the Washington-based company’s biggest-ever
property fund, a person with knowledge of the plans said last
week. Randall Whitestone, a spokesman for Carlyle, declined to
comment.  “We’re suddenly seeing a lot of the large mega-funds back
in the market,” Coyle said in a telephone interview. “It’s a
good point in the cycle. People still see distress, and
opportunistic real estate is a place where a lot of folks think
they can make money.”  The Lone Star target was first reported yesterday by real
estate news service PERE.  Larger firms with established track records probably will
have an easier time raising capital from limited partners, or
investors in their funds, Breault said.  “LPs are somewhat risk-averse still,” he said. “Those
seeking opportunistic investments will rely very heavily on past
performance. It’s much more competitive for the smaller firms
without the same track record or name behind them.”  Morgan Stanley  Even some large firms have struggled as investors flocked
to more predictable income-producing real estate after the
credit freeze drove down property values.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the
biggest property investor among Wall Street banks before the
financial crisis, is trying to raise $1 billion to $3 billion
for a new global real estate fund, two people with knowledge of
the effort said in May.  Morgan Stanley is seeking a large contribution from China
Investment Corp., which owns 6.4 percent of the New York-based
firm, one of the people said.  Matt Burkhard, a Morgan Stanley spokesman, declined to
comment.  The new fund would be Morgan Stanley’s eighth for global
real estate. Morgan Stanley is betting the profitability of its
current real estate fund, a $4.7 billion pool raised in 2010,
will help it win pledges from investors, one of the people said.  KKR Fund  KKR, the buyout firm run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , has begun marketing its first fund dedicated to real
estate investments with an initial $500 million committed to the
pool. The firm committed a significant amount of its own money
to put investors at ease as it geared up to pitch the fund to
additional limited partners, a person with knowledge of the
matter said in March. KKR hadn’t set a target for the fund as of
March, the person said.  Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for KKR, declined to comment.  TPG Capital, founded by  David Bonderman  and  James Coulter ,
has formed real estate funds with sole investors as the firm
prepares to raise its first multiple-investor real estate fund,
which investors have said will likely be about $1 billion or
more.  Owen Blicksilver , a spokesman for TPG Capital with Owen
Blicksilver Public Relations, declined to comment.  Carlyle is replenishing capital after a record-setting sale
of a New York property earlier this month. The firm agreed to
sell 650 Madison Ave., a 600,000-square-foot (55,700-square-meter)  office tower  in  Manhattan ’s Plaza district, for $1.3
billion, setting a per-square-foot record for a U.S. office
building.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  