-- Moody’s Amplifies Bahrain’s Bad Timing on Bond Sale: Arab Credit
-- B y   S a m u e l   P o t t e r   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-06-18T10:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/moody-s-amplifies-bahrain-s-bad-timing-on-bond-sale-arab-credit.html
Bahrain, the Persian Gulf kingdom
planning to sell bonds as early as this week, faces rising
borrowing costs after its yields jumped to a nine-month high.  The island kingdom is set to conclude investor meetings
today before what may be its first international sale since
issuing $1.5 billion of Eurobonds almost a year ago. The yield
on the 6.125 percent 2022 debt has jumped about three times more
than Middle East peers this month, climbing 101 basis points to
5.52 percent at 1:28 p.m. in Manama. It rose to 5.67 percent
last week, the highest since Aug. 30.  Moody’s Investors Service placed the debt of Bahrain, which
hosts the U.S. Fifth Fleet and borders  Saudi Arabia , on review
for a possible downgrade last week due in part to the “high and
rising” oil price needed to balance its budget. The selloff was
sparked by prospects that the  Federal Reserve , which starts a
two-day policy meeting today, will scale back economic stimulus.  “The timing of Bahrain’s possible bond issue looks
somewhat challenging,” Chavan Bhogaita, head of markets
strategy at  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD) , said by e-mail
yesterday. “The kingdom should be able to get the deal done if
it is willing to pay up in the current environment.”  Paying Premium  Bahrain, which has almost $12 billion of outstanding debt
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, is rated Baa1 at
Moody’s, three levels above non-investment grade and on par with
 South Africa  and  Mexico . Like its neighbors in the six-nation
Gulf Cooperation Council, Bahrain’s government relies on oil
sales for more than 85 percent of fiscal revenue.  The yield on the 2022 securities has risen in the past five
weeks, including a 69 basis-point jump last week as Moody’s
released its note June 13. The average yield on HSBC/Nasdaq
Dubai’s Middle East Conventional Sovereign U.S. Dollar Bond
Index posted a weekly increase of 11 basis points to 4.97
percent on June 14. It was 4.93 percent yesterday.  Bahrain hired BNP Paribas SA, Citigroup Inc., Gulf
International Bank BSC and JPMorgan Chase & Co. for the
potential benchmark-sized sale.  “It’s increasingly clear that, in a risk-off environment,
new issuance will have to come to market at a premium to
secondary issues,”  Usman Ahmed , Dubai-based head of fixed
income at Emirates NBD Asset Management Ltd., said by e-mail
yesterday. “Bahrain sovereign debt already trades wide to its
investment-grade status, potentially pricing in any impact from
the rating agency downgrades.”  Limited Appetite  Still, the country may struggle if it wants to sell bonds
maturing in 10 years or longer as appetite for that tenor is
“limited” amid debate over whether the Fed will wind down
asset purchases, said Aliasgar Tambawala, a fixed-income
investment manager at Mashreq Capital DIFC Ltd. in Dubai.
Bahrain sold 10-year dollar-denominated securities in 2010 and
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are also likely to watch for any Moody’s
downgrade. The ratings company said it would conclude its review
within three months and expects the rating to remain within
investment grade.  Bahrain’s rising debt burden “introduces uncertainty into
the country’s longer-term debt sustainability,” Moody’s said.
Bahrain will need oil to be at $118.70 a barrel this year to
balance its budget, according to Moody’s, which cited the
 International Monetary Fund .  Brent crude , used to price two-thirds of global oil sales, has averaged $108 a barrel so far
this year.  Oil Shocks  The nation’s five-year credit default swaps have risen 45
basis points to 224 yesterday since hitting a two-year low on
Jan. 25. The contracts rose as high as 430 last year as Bahrain
faced the largest popular unrest in the GCC amid the so-called
Arab Spring. Economic growth accelerated to  3.9 percent  last
year from 2.1 percent a year earlier, the slowest since 1994.  “Given the budget’s significant dependence on oil
revenues, Bahrain’s government finances are less flexible and
its shock-absorption capacity is lower than that of its regional
and global rating peers,” Moody’s said in its report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Samuel Potter in Dubai at 
 spotter33@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  