-- Co-Op Bank Cut Four Steps by Moody’s a Day After Bond Plan
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-06-18T16:50:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/moody-s-cuts-co-op-bank-debt-four-more-steps-after-bond-plan.html
Co-Operative Bank Plc, the U.K.
lender that yesterday proposed a debt swap to plug its capital
shortfall, had its  credit rating  lowered four levels by Moody’s
Investors Service, a month after a six-step cut to junk.  Moody’s reduced customer-owned Co-Op Bank’s senior
unsecured debt and deposit ratings to Caa1 from Ba3, the rating
company said in a statement today, seven steps below investment
grade. The outlook on the debt is “developing,” Moody’s said.
 Standard & Poor’s  subsequently cut Co-Operative Group Ltd., the
bank’s parent entity, two levels to BB- from BB+.  The downgrade of the Manchester, England-based bank, which
traces its roots to 19th century social-reform movements,
reflects a risk that “further burden sharing may be required at
some point if these efforts to recapitalize and restructure the
bank prove unsuccessful,” Moody’s said. The capital shortfall
was revealed during Co-Op’s failed attempt earlier this year to
buy 632 branches from  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   The latest rating cuts “reflect two uncertainties,” said
 Christopher Wheeler , an analyst at Mediobanca SpA in London.
“The first is timing. The bail-in is not due to be implemented
until October. A great deal can happen in the next four months
that mean the planned bail-in is just not sufficient. Second,
whether the exchange will be successful, regardless of the
suspension of interest payments on the junior debt subject to
the bail-in.”  Bonds Fall  Co-Op Bank plans to raise 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion)
by asking existing bondholders to exchange subordinated debt for
new equity and senior debt, raise 500 million pounds with the
sale of insurance assets, and list shares on the London Stock
Exchange. The lender, which has been replacing its senior
management, has said it won’t need government support.  “Moody’s response is entirely anticipated and we expect
the rating agencies to improve their ratings in due course upon
successful completion of the exchange offer,” Co-Op Bank said
in a statement today.  Co-Op Bank’s 9.25 percent Lower Tier 2 notes due April 2021
dropped 3.4 pence to 71.07 pence on the pound today, the lowest
since May 14, according to Bloomberg prices. Lower Tier 2 bonds
are subordinated securities that have a maturity date and must
pay coupons.  The bank’s capital has been depleted by soured consumer and
commercial real estate loans stemming from the purchase of
Britannia Building Society in 2009. Loan impairments more than
quadrupled to 468.7 million pounds in 2012, the company said in
March. The bank had a pretax loss of 673.7 million pounds in
2012, versus a profit of 54.2 million pounds a year earlier.  Co-Op Group, which also owns drugstore and grocery units,
may have “pressure on its financial covenants” after the
bank’s restructuring increases its indebtedness, S&P said.  “The additional debt at the trading group level raises the
question of how far the group will commit to provide further
financial support to the bank,” S&P said. “The trading group
would have limited capacity to provide any further capital
support to the bank once this transaction is completed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  