-- Mortgage-Bond Auction Failures Reach Most in 2013 as Prices Drop
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-06-18T16:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/mortgage-bond-auction-failures-reach-most-in-2013-as-prices-drop.html
U.S.  home-loan bonds  without
government backing are failing to trade at investor auctions at
the fastest pace this year as prices tumble after a rally.  The share of non-agency bonds reported by dealers as not
trading after being included in widely marketed auctions rose to
44 percent in the first half of June, up from 18 percent last
month, according to data from New York-based  Empirasign
Strategies LLC , which tracks the information. A total of $9.5
billion of the debt was offered, about the same pace as in the
first four months this year, after $32.3 billion in all of May.  Typical prices for senior securities backed by option
adjustable-rate mortgages dropped to 68 cents on the dollar last
week from 74 cents a month earlier, as concern that the  Federal
Reserve  will curb its bond buying roils financial markets,
Barclays Plc data show. Such  declines  are slowing trading as
potential buyers offer bids that sellers consider too low, and
Wall Street banks fail to take up the slack.  “The Street is long from a lot of customer sales in the
last six weeks, and the move down in price has had an impact on
their ability to provide liquidity,”  Scott Buchta , head of
fixed-income strategy at New York-based brokerage Brean Capital
LLC, said today in a telephone interview. Potential buyers are
being “much more opportunistic,” while some sellers are trying
to “execute at yesterday’s levels.” Others are seeking bids
simply to gauge current prices, he said.  Values Drop  Values in the $900 billion non-agency market are slumping
after soaring through early May as the Fed’s stimulus efforts
drove investors to seek potentially higher returns and housing
rebounded with the fastest gains in prices since 2006, according
to S&P/Case-Shiller index data on values in 20 cities.  The option ARM securities, which fell as low as 33 cents on
the dollar in 2009, rose from 65 cents at the start of the year.
The underlying loans can allow borrowers to pay less than the
interest due by increasing how much they owe.  Investor auctions of non-agency bonds known as bids wanted
in competition are slowing again. Volumes earlier this year
were depressed by holders seeking to benefit from later gains.
Trading was boosted last month by an $8.7 billion sale from
Lloyds Banking Group Plc.  Trading Stifled  “The non-agency market continues to be impacted by wide
bid/ask spreads, which stifled trading activity,” Bank of
America Corp. analysts  Chris Flanagan , Ryan Asato and Justin Borst wrote in a June 14 report.  Non-agency securities lack guarantees from government-supported  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  or U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae.
Bonds backed by the riskiest subprime mortgages issued to
borrowers with poor credit before housing collapsed have fallen
3.7 percent this month, trimming their gains this year to 7.6
percent, Barclays index data show.  “Given the increased volatility in the markets and
concerns over Fed policy, further price declines in non-agencies
cannot be ruled out,” Barclays analysts including Jasraj Vaidya
and Sandeep Bordia wrote in a June 14 report. “Despite that
near-term possibility, we remain constructive on non-agencies
over the medium term” because of the higher yields the debt
offers relative to other risky assets and housing’s improvement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 