-- Osborne Preparing to Detail RBS, Lloyds Plan Vows Taxpayer Value
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-06-18T09:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/osborne-preparing-to-detail-rbs-lloyds-plan-vows-taxpayer-value.html
George Osborne  said his Mansion
House speech tomorrow will outline plans for returning  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  to
private hands and vowed taxpayers will recoup their investment.  “We want to return these banks to private ownership,” the
U.K. chancellor of the exchequer said in an interview with BBC
Radio today. “We want to make sure the taxpayer gets value for
money. We want to get the money back. We want these banks to be
strong supporters of the economy in Britain.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in an interview last week
that U.K. voters are more interested in getting their money back
 from RBS  than in its quick return to the private sector. RBS
Chief Executive  Stephen Hester , who joined the bank in 2008
following its 45.5 billion-pound ($71.3 billion) bailout, said
last week he will quit his job by the end of the year, without
naming a successor.  “He’s done a very good rescue job,” Osborne said. “Now
we’re moving to the recovery phase of RBS.” He said Hester made
the decision to quit, though as chancellor his “consent and
approval” was sought.  The U.K. Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards is
set to publish a report on the industry. Lawmakers hadn’t
reached a consensus over whether to recommend RBS should be
broken up, three people familiar with the discussions said last
week. RBS, which has started to cut 2,000 investment-banking
jobs, said in a memo to employees last week it will exit its
equity derivatives and structured retail products divisions.  Breakeven Price  RBS closed yesterday at 316 pence a share, below the 407
pence where taxpayers break even. Lloyds closed at 61.3 pence,
just above the 61-pence-per-share cost of the state bailout. The
U.K. owns 39 percent of London-based Lloyds and 81 percent of
Edinburgh-based RBS after the previous Labour government
injected 65.8 billion pounds into the two lenders during the
financial crisis.  “We can begin to think about returning RBS to private
ownership, with the very important provision that we get our
money back,” Osborne said. How the government achieves its
objectives “is going to depend on market conditions at the
time,” he said.  “Absolutely at the heart of this is my determination that
we have a banking system that works for the British economy
rather than an economy that supports the banking system, which
is what we inherited,” Osborne said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in in Enniskillen,  Northern Ireland  on
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  