-- House Votes to Ban Abortions After 20 Weeks of Pregnancy
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-06-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/house-republican-leadership-tested-on-anti-abortion-bill.html
The  House of Representatives  voted
to ban abortions nationwide past 20 weeks of pregnancy, joining
at least 10 states in seeking to expand prohibitions on the
procedure further than the U.S. Supreme Court has allowed.  The bill, passed yesterday on a mostly party-line 228-196
 vote , would make such abortions a crime with a possible prison
sentence. At least 10 states have approved similar laws, with
those in  Arizona  and Idaho declared unconstitutional by federal
courts.  “These late-term abortions are incredibly, incredibly
painful” for the fetus, Republican Representative Marsha Blackburn of  Tennessee  said during floor debate. “The American
public is with us on this.”  The Democratic-controlled Senate won’t take up the bill
passed by the majority-Republican House.  “This bill is unconstitutional,”  California  Democrat Zoe Lofgren said on the House floor. “It’s a direct challenge to
Roe v. Wade,” the 1973 decision in which the U.S. Supreme Court
legalized abortion nationwide.  The court in 1992 reaffirmed that the government can’t ban
abortions before the fetus is capable of living outside the
womb, which is generally considered to begin at about 24 weeks.
The Obama administration said it “strongly opposes” the House
measure and the president would veto it.  Major medical groups, including the American Congress of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists, have disputed claims that
fetuses can feel pain at 20 weeks.  Health-Care Law  The House measure is “intrusive and patently
unconstitutional” and has been “blocked everywhere it has been
challenged in court,” Nancy Northup, chief executive officer of
the Center for Reproductive Rights, said in a statement after
the vote.  Marjorie Dannenfelser, president of the anti-abortion group
Susan B. Anthony List, said, “Women and the unborn deserve
better than abortion, and making late-term abortions illegal is
a simple step in that direction.”  Six Republicans voted against the measure, including Paul Broun of Georgia, Charlie Dent of  Pennsylvania , Rodney Frelinghuysen of New Jersey, Richard Hanna of  New York , Jon Runyan of New Jersey and Rob Woodall of Georgia.  Six Democrats voted for the measure. They are Daniel Lipinski of  Illinois ,  Jim Matheson  of  Utah , Mike McIntyre of
 North Carolina ,  Collin Peterson  of  Minnesota , Henry Cuellar of
 Texas  and Nick Rahall of West Virginia.  Sending Messages  The House has taken a number of votes on legislation doomed
to fail in the Senate, to send a message to voters and allow
Republican lawmakers to go on the record on a particular topic.
On May 16, the House voted for the 37th time to repeal or defund
at least part of Obama’s 2010 health-care law.  Jean Schroedel, a politics professor at Claremont Graduate
University in Claremont, California, said  House Republicans  are
seeking to “placate” their supporters on abortion, even as
they recognize the measure won’t become law.  “What they are trying to do is give some red meat to their
socially conservative base” with the abortion vote as Congress
debates immigration legislation opposed by many Republicans,
Schroedel said.  Republican-led states increasingly have restricted when and
how women can end their pregnancies. At least 10 have enacted
laws since 2010 banning abortions after the 20th week of
pregnancy. The Texas Senate dropped such a provision in a
measure still pending in the chamber yesterday. It would impose
other restrictions on the procedure.  Kermit Gosnell  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, told
reporters that after the murder case of Philadelphia abortion
provider Kermit Gosnell, “the vast majority of the American
people believe in the substance of this bill.” Gosnell was
convicted in May of killing three babies born alive at his
clinic.  Only 1.5 percent of abortions in the U.S. in 2006 were
performed after 20 weeks, according to the Guttmacher Institute,
which researches and compiles reproductive health data in New
York.  The House bill, H.R. 1797, would make it a crime,
punishable by as many as five years in prison, to perform
abortions on patients beyond the 20th week of pregnancy.  It was  revised  by the Republican majority to add  exceptions 
for cases of rape or incest after the bill’s sponsor,
Representative Trent Franks of Arizona, drew criticism for
saying the number of pregnancies caused by rape was “very
low.” Leaders also replaced Franks with Blackburn to manage the
floor debate.  Medical Evidence  Franks’s bill says there is “substantial medical
evidence” that a fetus can feel pain “at least by 20 weeks
after fertilization, if not earlier.”  The vote is opening Republican congressional leaders, most
of whom are men, to fresh criticism from Democrats that they
disrespect women. The issue cost Republicans votes in the 2012
election after statements like losing Senate candidate Todd Akin’s remark that pregnancy rarely results from “legitimate
rape.”  Obama won 11 percentage points more support from women than
Republican  Mitt Romney , according to exit polls in the November
2012 election.  “Women should be able to make their own choices about
their bodies and their health care, and government should not
inject itself into decisions best made between a woman and her
doctor,” the Obama administration said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  