-- Housing Starts Probably Rose in May as U.S. Expansion Gets Boost
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-06-18T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/housing-starts-probably-rose-in-may-as-u-s-expansion-gets-boost.html
Housing starts probably rose in May,
extending a rebound that is helping shore up the U.S. expansion,
economists said before a report today.  Builders  broke ground  on 950,000 houses at an annualized
rate, up 11.4 percent from April’s 853,000 pace, according to
the median estimate of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Another report may show the cost of living increased in May for
the first time in three months.  Historically low  mortgage rates , improvement in the labor
market and pent-up demand are spurring optimism among builders
such as  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV)  The recovery in residential
real estate shows how record monetary stimulus from Federal
Reserve policy makers, who meet today and tomorrow, is
bolstering economic growth.  “The underlying demand is improving on strength in the job
market and stronger  consumer confidence ,” said  Mark Vitner , an
economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina . “The key for the Fed is seeing a sustainable
recovery. As far as housing goes, I think they’re feeling pretty
good about that.”  The Commerce Department will issue its housing starts data
at 8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from rates of 875,000 to 1.02 million.  The number of building  permits , a proxy for future
construction, fell to 975,000 last month from an almost five-year high of 1.01 million in April, according to the median
estimate in the Bloomberg survey. The pace of applications
exceeds projected starts and points to further gains in
homebuilding.  Mortgage Rates  Improving property values and cheaper borrowing costs have
encouraged some Americans to buy homes before  mortgage rates 
head even higher. The average  rate  on a 30-year fixed loan
jumped to a 14-month high of almost 4 percent last week from a
four-month low of 3.35 percent in early May, according to
Freddie Mac data.  Mortgage rates are climbing because of heightened consumer
demand for loans, Neil Dutta, an economist at Renaissance Macro
Research LLC in  New York , said in a note to clients yesterday.  “ Interest rates  have risen, but they’re still at historic
lows,”  Robert Niblock , chief executive officer of Lowe’s Cos.,
the second-largest U.S. home improvement retailer, said
yesterday in an interview. The Mooresville, North Carolina-based
company’s sales in the second quarter have recovered from March
and April when rainy, colder-than-normal weather limited demand,
he said.  Builder Optimism  Builders are also gaining confidence. A measure of  builder
sentiment  climbed in June to its highest level since March 2006,
according to a report yesterday. The  National Association of
Home Builders /Wells Fargo’ gauge rose to 52 from 44 in May,
according to the Washington-based group.  “A lot of us are expecting that we need 1.6 million to 1.9
million housing starts to keep up with  population growth ,” Brad G. O’Connor, chief accounting officer at  Red Bank , New Jersey-based builder Hovnanian Enterprises, said in a June 13
presentation. “Housing creation shows that we should still have
a fair amount of pent-up demand and an ongoing recovery to the
housing market, that we’re just in the beginning of that
recovery.”  Homebuilder shares have outperformed the broader market.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index has
surged 62 percent in the past 12 months, compared with a 22.1
percent gain in the  S&P 500 .  The improvement in housing is extending beyond builders, to
companies such as  Lumber Liquidators Holdings Inc. (LL) , a hardwood
floor retailer based in Toano, Virginia.  ‘Nice Growth’  “We’ve seen some nice growth in our comp stores sales and
there is no question that a more positive backdrop is in
place,” Daniel E. Terrell, chief financial officer, said in a
June 12 presentation. “I think we’re only beginning to see a
recovery now.”  Another report today will show the consumer-price index
rose 0.2 percent in May after a 0.4 percent decline a month
earlier, according the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
The Labor Department will also release figures at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington.  Compared with May 2012, consumer prices may have climbed
1.4 percent after a 1.1 percent year-over-year gain in April
that was the smallest since November 2010.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  Washington  
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 