-- How to Understand What the Fed Says
-- B y   J u s t i n   W o l f e r s
-- 2013-06-18T15:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/how-to-understand-what-the-fed-says.html
The world will be paying close
attention tomorrow when the  Federal Reserve  announces the
results of its two-day policy-making meeting. The big question
is what, if anything, the announcement will communicate.  At its previous meeting, the Fed  reaffirmed  its promise to
keep injecting $85 billion a month into the economy “until the
outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in the
context of  price stability ” -- a message markets took to mean
that stimulus would continue for the foreseeable future.  Now, thanks to the utterances of various Fed officials,
markets aren’t so sure. Investors are on tenterhooks in
expectation of an announcement about when the Fed will start to
reduce, or “taper,” the rate at which it is injecting money into
the economy. The uncertainty has sent bond yields, currencies
and stock markets around the world into gyrations.  There’s no guarantee that the Fed’s statement, or the
subsequent news conference by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , will
provide clarity. A decision to taper bond purchases could mean
any of three things about the economy: The situation is
improving, the Fed doesn’t think it can do more to help, or the
Fed is abandoning its past promises to keep stimulus going.  Let’s walk through the possibilities.  1. Good news. A pullback on bond purchases could project
confidence about the strength of the economy. If Bernanke and
company are willing to take their foot off the accelerator, we
can infer that they must see sunny times ahead. Studies have
documented that Fed forecasts are typically more accurate than
those of private-sector economists, so even sophisticated
economists should become more optimistic when the Fed’s outlook
improves. Bernanke’s confidence could have a positive effect on
businesses, making them more likely to invest and helping to
strengthen the recovery.  2. Mission accomplished. The tapering of stimulus, at a
time when job growth remains middling, might tell us more about
the Fed than it does about the economy. Maybe the Fed thinks
that the unsatisfactory pace of economic recovery is good
enough. Consider it the monetary equivalent of a “Mission
Accomplished” banner: premature and unconvincing.  Such a decision might signal that Fed officials think the
labor market can’t improve much faster. Or perhaps they no
longer believe that further bond purchases will make a
difference.  The prospect that the  U.S. economy  is dependent on a Fed
that is willing to put down its weapons and declare victory when
the battle isn’t yet won is deeply worrying. Such an
announcement would lead businesses to think twice before
investing, hurting the recovery.  3. Bait and switch. A shift away from stimulus could mean
that Bernanke is reneging on his pledge to stimulate the economy
until the labor market improved “substantially.” He promised
open-ended quantitative easing, hoping to stimulate investment.
Now that those investments have been made, he doesn’t need to
actually deliver.  If this is what’s happening, it could be particularly
harmful. Promises to maintain stimulus in the future -- known as
policy guidance -- are one of the Fed’s few remaining tools at
times like the present, when short-term  interest rates  have
fallen to zero. If the Fed reveals that it can’t be trusted,
then businesses that had been thinking of investing based on the
Fed’s past promises to keep rates low will hold off, and the
recovery will sputter.  The range of possible interpretations demonstrates that the
Fed has botched its communications policy. Transparency isn’t
about talking a lot. It’s about being clear. Had the Fed clearly
explained how it would respond to changes in the economic
outlook, then Fed watchers would know what changes in its policy
mean. Sadly, that’s not the case.  The language that Fed officials have chosen -- continuing
bond purchases, known as quantitative easing, until “the labor
market has improved substantially” -- is so slippery that nobody
knows what the talk of tapering signals. Add to this the escape
clause they have built in -- that in deciding how to proceed
with asset purchases “the Committee will continue to take
account of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases” --
and they are practically inviting you to believe they were never
really committed to maintaining stimulus until after the
recovery took hold.  When you are reading the Fed decision, don’t focus on
whether they decide to taper asset purchases or not. It’s much
more important to understand why, and what this says about
future policy. The best outcome would be if Fed officials took a
truly revolutionary step: Tell us what they are going to do,
then follow through by doing it.  ( Justin Wolfers  is a professor of public policy and
economics at the  University of Michigan , a nonresident senior
fellow of the  Brookings Institution  and a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writers of this article:
Justin Wolfers at  jwolfers@umich.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 