-- Lloyds Bank Says No Political Pressure to Sell Branches to Co-Op
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-06-18T13:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/lloyds-bank-says-no-political-pressure-to-sell-branches-to-co-op.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  Chairman
 Win Bischoff  said there was no political pressure from the U.K.
government to sell 632 branches to Co-Operative Bank Plc over
any other bidder.  Britain’s biggest mortgage lender chose Co-Op over a
competing offer from  NBNK Investments Plc (NBNK) , created by former
Lloyd’s of London Chairman  Peter Levene , because it offered more
money, Bischoff told the Treasury Select Committee in London
today. Levene said that the government had decided that Co-Op’s
customer-ownership made it the “preferred and definitive
solution,” in a separate statement to the committee.  “We would have been perfectly happy for NBNK to have won
this particular transaction,” Bischoff, 72, said. “There was
no political pressure. We looked at it purely from the point of
view of execution and price.”  Co-Op Bank, a British customer-owned lender, dropped its
bid for the branches in April after regulators expressed concern
that its managers didn’t have enough banking experience to run
the enlarged business and the firm lacked capital. Co-Op Bank
said yesterday it would plug a 1.5 billion-pound ($2.3 billion)
capital shortfall by asking existing bondholders to exchange
subordinated debt for new equity and senior debt, and raise 500
million pounds with the sale of insurance assets.  Capital Hole  Bischoff said Lloyds only identified the capital shortfall
at Co-Op in December when it submitted a more detailed bid and
was reassured by the mutual that it could plug the hole.  “In our own analysis of that combined information for us,
it was reasonably clear that the assumptions of the plan had
changed and there was a shortfall of capital,” Lloyds Chief
Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio, 49, told the committee.
When we approached Co-Op they told us “we have several options
and we are revising the plan and the options we have together
with the regulator to address this situation,” he added.  Regulator’s hadn’t warned about the capital shortfall,
though said the Co-Op bid would need to be approved, Horta-Osorio said.  Co-Op’s bid was valued at about 700 million pounds,
compared with NBNK’s offer of 630 million pounds, he said.  Lloyds also chose the Co-Op bid because the mutual already
had an established bank, a relationship with the U.K. regulator
and a rating from the credit agencies, Bischoff said.  Lloyds said it had approached 42 potential bidders with
details of the branches and eight or nine parties showed some
interest in the assets.  The 39 percent government-owned  lender  has been told to
sell the branches by the European Union after it received more
than 20 billion pounds of state aid during the banking crisis.
It’s planning an initial public offering of the outlets next
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  