-- HP’s Whitman Reassigns Bradley in Revamp Amid PC Slump
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-06-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/hp-s-bradley-to-lead-stategic-growth-in-china-in-pc-slump.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief Executive
Officer  Meg Whitman  is reorganizing the company’s struggling
personal-computer business, replacing longtime head Todd Bradley
with one of his deputies amid a global PC slump.  Bradley is becoming executive vice president for strategic
growth, charged with expanding in  China  and forming alliances
with startups around the world, Hewlett-Packard said yesterday.
Dion Weisler, hired by Bradley last year from  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) 
to lead PCs and printing in  Asia , is assuming global
responsibility for those units.  CEO since 2011, Whitman is working to turn around  Palo
Alto , California Hewlett-Packard after seven straight quarters
of declining  sales  and years of management tumult and strategic
missteps. While Hewlett-Packard overtook  Dell Inc. (DELL)  to reclaim
the No. 1 position in the PCs for six years under Bradley, the
company has been slow to adapt to a global shift away from
desktop machines to smartphones and tablets.  “Todd went from running half of HP to looking at little
companies, which seems like a demotion,” said  Brian Marshall ,
an analyst at ISI Group who has a neutral rating on the shares.
“Weisler isn’t a known entity on the street but is battle
tested and worked at a high level job at Lenovo.”  Under former CEO  Leo Apotheker , Hewlett-Packard was
weighing a spinoff of the personal-computer division -- a
proposal that Whitman scrapped. The company still plans to keep
the PC and printing divisions, Michael Thacker, a spokesman for
Hewlett-Packard, said in an interview.  Keeping PCs  “We’re 100 percent committed to the printing and personal
systems business,” Thacker said. Yesterday’s “announcement
doesn’t change that,” he added.  He said the job change represents “a lateral move” for
Bradley.  While a spinoff is not currently under serious
consideration, and the company hasn’t retained bankers to handle
a deal, management occasionally discusses the prospect,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  Former CEO  Mark Hurd  brought Bradley to the company in 2005
from PalmOne Inc. to help establish the PC business as a
separate unit from printing, a decision that was reversed last
year by Whitman. She placed Bradley in charge of both businesses
in March 2012 after deciding against Apotheker’s spinoff
proposal as part of a turnaround effort.  Microsoft Dependence  Each pivot in the direction of the computing business has
made Hewlett-Packard’s customers uncertain about the brand,
exacerbating the effects of the global PC slowdown.  “ Todd Bradley  has made a series of strategic mistakes; his
departure should have happened long before,”  Trip Chowdhry , an
analyst at Global Equities Research, wrote in a research report.  Among other shortcomings, Bradley has been overly reliant
on machines running Microsoft Corp.’s new Windows 8 software,
which hasn’t caught on with consumers, Chowdhry said.  Microsoft’s latest version of its flagship operating
system, which can work on touchscreen devices, didn’t sell as
well as expected in the months following its debut in October,
Bradley said in a January interview with Bloomberg Television.  While printers and PCs generated sales of $60.1 billion for
Hewlett-Packard in the 2012 fiscal year, or half of all revenue,
those businesses contributed 60 percent of sales in the 2005
fiscal year, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Lenovo Rivalry  Lenovo overtook Hewlett-Packard to claim the the top spot
in the PC market last year, highlighting the challenges facing
Whitman as she strives to revive growth.  At the same time, global PC shipments plummeted 14 percent
in the first quarter of 2013, the worst decline since researcher
IDC began tracking data in 1994.  “The entire market has slowed down,”  Richard Shim , an
analyst at NPD DisplaySearch, said in an interview. “No one has
done a good job of managing this shift from notebook PCs to
tablets other than Apple.”  Hewlett-Packard’s share of the notebook market in China and
the Asia-Pacific region was 7.3 percent in the first quarter,
Shim said, in fifth place trailing companies including Lenovo
and Dell.  Weisler has more than 23 years of experience in the
technology industry, much of it at Asia-based computer makers.
Before Lenovo, he worked at  Acer Inc. (2353)  Nick Lazaridis will take
over Weisler’s duties in Asia, Hewlett-Packard said.  The shares rose 1.1 percent to $25.44 yesterday in New
York. They had gained 79 percent this year through yesterday,
compared with a 16 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in  New York  at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  