-- Pena Nieto Confident 75-Year Pemex Oil Monopoly to End This Year
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n ,   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z   a n d   H e l d e r   M a r i n h o
-- 2013-06-18T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/pena-nieto-confident-75-year-pemex-oil-monopoly-to-end-this-year.html
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto
said he’s confident Congress will end the state oil monopoly
this year, opening the way for companies such as Exxon Mobil
Corp. and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to tap the nation’s reserves.  In the model envisioned by Pena Nieto, state-owned
 Petroleos Mexicanos  would develop some fields, while others are
tapped by foreign and private companies. He declined to discuss
more details of the proposal, or whether it would require a
change in the constitution.  Seven decades after his party seized fields from the
predecessors to Exxon and Shell, Pena Nieto is preparing for the
return of international  oil companies  to arrest eight years of
decline in crude output. An opening would probably be broad,
from offshore drilling to shale fields similar to those that
have revived the U.S. petroleum industry, Pena Nieto said.  “It’s obvious that Pemex doesn’t have the financial
capacity to be in every single front of energy generation,” the
46-year-old president said in an interview in  London  yesterday,
before traveling to  Northern Ireland  for meetings with Group of
Eight leaders. “Shale is one of the areas where there’s room
for private companies, but not the only one.”  Pena Nieto said his administration will send the energy
bill to congress by September, when regular sessions resume,
along with a tax proposal. The support of the top three
political parties in the Pact for  Mexico  should ensure the bill
is approved by Congress before year end, he said.  Skeptical Investors  Mexico is seeking to attract capital for deep-water and
shale deposits found in the past decade as reserves dwindle in
Cantarell, the 1976 oil discovery that ranked among the world’s
largest.  Investors became more skeptical about the depth of the
energy reform after it wasn’t included in the schedule for
special congressional sessions in July and August, leaving it
for the final four months of the year along with a crowded
agenda that includes the tax overhaul and next year’s budget.  Mexico’s peso pared its drop yesterday after Pena Nieto’s
comments, falling 1 percent to 12.8361 per  U.S. dollar  after
losing as much as 1.3 percent. Yields on peso-denominated fixed-rate  government bonds  due in 2024 increased 11 basis points, or
0.11 percentage point, to 5.31 percent. Yields on $2 billion
Pemex bonds due in 2022 added one basis point to 3.98 percent.  Pena Nieto’s comments boosted confidence he’ll make good on
his pledge to open the state-controlled energy industry, said
 Ramon Cordova , a currency trader at Banco Base SA.  ‘Good Path’  “What the market wants is the reforms to pass,” Cordova
said by phone from San Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico. The comments
indicate “the energy reform is on a good path and it gives some
more information, because up until now it’s been very opaque.”  Opening oil and gas exploration for private investment
would help Mexico revive oil production that is heading for its
ninth year of decline. Crude output averaged 2.52 million
barrels a day this month through June 9, compared with 3.38
million barrels a day in 2004.  When Pena Nieto took office in December, he inherited an
economy that had started to grow faster than Brazil in the final
two years of predecessor  Felipe Calderon ’s administration amid
record Mexican auto exports and waning Chinese demand for
Brazilian commodities. Mexico’s gross domestic product will
expand 3.2 percent this year, faster than 3 percent for Brazil,
according to the median estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Government Spending  While Mexican growth eased to 0.8 percent in the first
quarter, the least since the 2009 recession, Finance Minister
Luis Videgaray said in an interview yesterday that the expansion
will quicken as the government increases spending in the second
half of the year.  “We expect much more accelerated spending in the second
semester,” Videgaray said. “The budget is there and the
revenue is there.”  Pena Nieto said there’s political momentum to pass more
reforms after the approval of sweeping education and
telecommunications laws and the creation of the Pact for Mexico.
His  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI, dropped its
opposition to an oil-law overhaul in March.  “We’re approaching key deadlines,” Pena Nieto said. “I’m
optimistic that this political climate of understanding and
agreement will be maintained.”  The start of July will mark one year since Pena Nieto’s
election returned the PRI to power after a 12-years hiatus.
Opening the  energy industry  to more private investment would be
the “signature issue” for judging his presidency, Pena Nieto
said during the campaign.  Pact for Mexico  Pemex bondholders are losing confidence in his ability to
achieve the needed changes after signs of fraying in the Pact
for Mexico alliance that Pena Nieto engineered between his own
PRI, the  National Action Party , or PAN, of predecessor Felipe Calderon and the Democratic Revolution Party, or PRD.  “The PRD cannot sign on for an ambitious energy reform,
and they’ve been quite explicit about that,” Duncan Wood,
director of the Mexico Institute at the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars in  Washington , said in an
interview. “It’s going to be very difficult for the elite of
the PRD to continue working with the government if the
government and the PAN push through an energy reform that
they’re opposed to.”  Yields on $2 billion Pemex bonds due in 2022 jumped 72
basis points in the past month through last week to 3.97
percent. Yields on Brazilian oil producer Petroleo Brasileiro
SA’s 2021 notes rose 63 basis points over the same period.  Changing Reputations  Pena Nieto has been working to overturn the country’s
reputation for violence, while strengthening the economy. His
administration passed a balanced budget and an education
overhaul that created an independent institute to evaluate
schools and foster competition for teaching jobs and promotions
based on performance, a move that sparked violent protests. The
government also arrested the powerful head of the teachers’
union, Elba Esther Gordillo, on corruption charges, taking on a
leader long considered to be untouchable.  Some of his other goals, such as progress in the war
against organized crime, have proved more elusive. While the
Milenio newspaper reported a 2.5 percent drop in drug violence
in the first four months of the administration, communities in
southern Mexico have armed themselves and kidnapped law-enforcement officials, saying police can’t protect them from
cartels.  ‘Excellent Job’  Pena Nieto’s energy and tax pledges, and his early
legislative success, helped attract overseas asset managers
including Pacific Investment Management Co., the world’s biggest
bond fund, and lift foreign holdings of peso bonds to record
levels. Yields on government peso debt due in 2024 dropped to a
record low and the currency climbed to the strongest level in
almost two years against the dollar last month. Yields have
since climbed and the currency weakened on the prospect that the
 Federal Reserve  will scale back its stimulus program.  Pena Nieto’s energy initiative may be the industry’s
biggest overhaul since then-President  Lazaro Cardenas  seized  oil
fields  from British and U.S. companies in 1938, said James R. Jones, the U.S. ambassador to Mexico when the  North American
Free Trade Agreement , negotiated under U.S. President  George H. W. Bush  and Mexico’s Carlos Salinas de Gortari, took effect in
1994. The expropriation is celebrated March 18.  Pena Nieto has “done an excellent job in his first six
months in office,” Jones said in a telephone interview from
Washington on June 14. “He has the best political sensitivity
and touch I’ve seen since President Salinas was able to marshal
various factions of Mexico to pass Nafta.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho in São Paulo at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 