-- PensionDenmark Invests in Wind Farm Offshore Nantucket
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-06-18T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/pensiondenmark-invests-in-wind-farm-offshore-nantucket.html
PensionDanmark has pledged $200
million in funding for a wind farm in Nantucket Sound, in the
first committed investment in Cape Wind Associates LLC’s
proposed 468-megawatt park offshore Cape Cod.  The Danish pension fund, with $26 billion under management,
is providing the investment as a mezzanine loan. The $2.6
billion project has encountered opposition from residents in
affluent Nantucket,  Massachusetts , members of the Kennedy family
and the Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head. It will be the first
offshore wind park in the U.S., the Copenhagen-based pension
fund said late yesterday in a statement.  “Investing in energy infrastructure is not new to us,”
Chief Executive Officer Torben Moger Pedersen said. “At a time
when bond yields are very low, this is expected to be an
attractive investment opportunity for us.”  The fund plans to invest an additional $2.2 billion in  wind
energy  and other infrastructure assets over the next four to
five years after plowing $1.1 billion into investments such as
three U.S. onshore wind parks and two Danish offshore park.  The investment is an “important milestone” said Jim Gordon, founder and owner of Boston-based Energy Management
Inc., the parent of Cape Wind. The project has been 12 years in
the making after encountering opposition from some residents,
who cited concerns of the effects on the local fishing industry.  PensionDanmark said its investment is conditional on a
final decision this year to construct the farm, which may have
as many as 130  Siemens AG (SIE)  3.6 megawatt turbines. The first phase
includes construction of 101 turbines.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  is advising
Cape Wind on raising the remaining financing, the developer said
in a statement in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  