-- Pentagon Shoots Down Kerry’s Syria Airstrike Plan
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-06-18T19:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/pentagon-shoots-down-kerry-s-syria-airstrike-plan.html
Twenty years ago, in a debate over
the war in Bosnia, Madeleine Albright, then the U.S. ambassador
to the United Nations, issued a challenge to the chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Colin Powell. Albright wanted the
U.S. to confront an aggressive Serbia; Powell and the Pentagon
were hesitant. Albright grew frustrated: “What’s the point of
having this superb military that you’re always talking about if
we can’t use it?” Albright asked. Powell later said that he
thought Albright was going to give him an aneurysm.  Flash-forward to this past Wednesday. At a principals
meeting in the White House situation room, Secretary of State
John Kerry began arguing, vociferously, for immediate U.S.
airstrikes against airfields under the control of Bashar al-Assad’s Syrian regime -- specifically, those fields it has used
to launch chemical weapons raids against rebel forces.  It was at this point that the current chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, the usually mild-mannered Army General Martin Dempsey, spoke up, loudly. According to several sources, Dempsey
threw a series of brushback pitches at Kerry, demanding to know
just exactly what the post-strike plan would be and pointing out
that the State Department didn’t fully grasp the complexity of
such an operation.  Dempsey informed Kerry that the Air Force could not simply
drop a few bombs, or fire a few missiles, at targets inside
 Syria : To be safe, the U.S. would have to neutralize Syria’s
integrated air-defense system, an operation that would require
700 or more sorties. At a time when the U.S. military is
exhausted, and when sequestration is ripping into the Pentagon
budget, Dempsey is said to have argued that a demand by the
State Department for precipitous military action in a murky
civil war wasn’t welcome.  Military Wariness  Officials with knowledge of the meeting say that Kerry gave
as good as he got, and that the discussion didn’t reach
aneurysm-producing levels. But it was, in diplomatic parlance, a
full and frank vetting of the profound differences between State
and Defense on Syria. Dempsey was adamant: Without much of an
entrance strategy, without anything resembling an exit strategy,
and without even a clear-eyed understanding of the consequences
of an American airstrike, the Pentagon would be extremely
reluctant to get behind Kerry’s plan.  As we know now, the Pentagon’s position is in sync with 
President  Barack Obama ’s. The outcome of the meeting last week
was to formalize a decision made weeks ago to supply the more
moderate elements of the Syrian opposition with small arms and
ammunition. The assessment by U.S. intelligence agencies that
Assad had used chemical weapons against small pockets of rebels
-- confirming those made several months earlier by the
intelligence agencies of U.S. friends in Europe and the Middle
East -- forced the administration to make a gesture of support
for the opposition.  Members of the White House national security team, who tend
to be more hawkish than Obama or Dempsey (though not as quite as
militant as Kerry), had been arguing that, in the words of Tony Blinken, the deputy national security adviser, 
“superpowers don’t bluff.” Once Obama had drawn a red line
around chemical weapons, the White House had no choice but to
take some sort of action.  Blinken was clever to use the word “bluff” in his
arguments to the president, implicitly linking his posture on
Syria to his position on  Iran ’s nuclear program. Last year, in
an interview with me on the subject of Iran, Obama said, “As
president of the United States, I don’t bluff.” On Iran, he has
lived up to his words, but he was in danger -- and remains in
danger -- of being seen as a bluffer on Syria.  No Bluffing  What is so odd about Dempsey’s adamant opposition to
Kerry’s aggressive proposals is that it hasn’t previously been
made public. Obama told Charlie Rose this week that he is
worried about sliding down the slippery slope toward greater
intervention in Syria. Having Dempsey openly in his corner would
be useful to him, but the administration hasn’t made hay over
the Pentagon’s opposition to airstrikes. (When I asked the
Pentagon for official comment, Dempsey’s spokesman would only
say that he would not “discuss classified internal
deliberations,” though he went on to say that the National
Security Council principals “routinely debate a wide range of
options to include how the military can and should support a
comprehensive, regional approach to this conflict.”)  One senior administration official explained it this way:
The White House doesn’t want Dempsey to make an enthusiastic
case on “Meet the Press” against intervention, just in case
Obama one day decides to follow Kerry’s advice and get more
deeply involved. At that point, Dempsey's arguments against
greater involvement could come back to haunt the administration.  The decision to provide small arms to the Syrian opposition
has made no one happy -- not the rebels, who understand that
these quite-possibly ineffective weapons will take many months
to reach them; not Kerry, who, while arguing that these
shipments may become a “force multiplier” in the conflict,
thinks that only a show of American air power will convince
Assad and his Hezbollah allies that the U.S. is making a serious
attempt to level a playing field that has been tilting their way
for some time; and not the Pentagon, which thinks that Obama,
despite saying that he is wary of the slippery slope, might be
pushed down that slope anyway, by interventionists on his team
or by events on the ground.  It is possible, even for those of us who have been inclined
toward intervention, to have a great deal of sympathy for
Dempsey’s position. There are those in the Pentagon who think
that the State Department has romanticized the Syrian
opposition. What diplomats see as a civil war featuring bands of
poorly armed moderates struggling to free themselves from the
grip of an evil dictator, the generals see as a religious war
between Hezbollah and al-Qaeda. Why would the U.S. risk taking
sides in a battle between two loathed terror organizations?
Memories of  Iraq , too, are fresh in the minds of Dempsey and his
colleagues.  On the other hand, a Kerry partisan told me, U.S.
intervention in Syria would not necessarily have to look like
U.S. intervention in Iraq. When I mentioned the Albright-Powell
exchange of 20 years ago, he pointed out something obvious:
President Bill Clinton eventually decided to use air power in
the Balkans. And it brought the Serbian government to its knees.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  jgoldberg50@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 