-- Petrominerales CEO Says Colombia Asset Sale Creates Interest
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i l l i s
-- 2013-06-18T14:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/petrominerales-ceo-says-colombia-asset-sale-creates-interest-1-.html
Petrominerales Ltd. (PMG) ,  Colombia ’s
worst-performing major stock in the past year, said it’s
receiving interest from prospective buyers of oil pipeline
stakes as the Calgary-based company seeks to reduce debt.  “There are parties by the day that are continuing to enter
the data room,” Chief Executive Officer Corey Ruttan, 42, said
in a telephone interview yesterday.  The company announced in May that it was hiring TD
Securities Inc. to act as an adviser to monetize assets
including its 5 percent stake in the Ocensa pipeline, which
links Colombia’s oil-rich eastern plains with the Caribbean
coast. Petrominerales also holds 9.65 percent of the
Bicentenario pipeline, also in Colombia. The interest in the
Ocensa pipeline alone is worth about $300 million, Darren Engels, an analyst at FirstEnergy in Calgary, said by telephone.  The company hopes to use the pipeline asset sales to pay
holders of $195 million in convertible bonds this August, with
all holders expected to exercise a  put option , said Ruttan.  Petrominerales also has access to a $250 million credit
facility with a group of 10 banks led by Standard Bank Group
Ltd, which the company may have to use before selling one or
both of the pipeline stakes, said Ruttan.  The stock surged 10 percent to 12,280 pesos at 9 a.m. in
Bogota trading, the highest intraday since May 6. The company
reported late yesterday that its Curito-1 discovery well
produced over 5,900 barrels of oil per day in tests.  The oil explorer whose operations are mainly based in
Colombia has lost 42 percent in the past 12 months, the biggest
decline in Colombia’s IGBC equity index, as it sought to tap new
finds amid declining output. The company is looking to develop
 oil deposits  trapped between sand in the Gomo reservoir in
 Brazil .  “Our goal is to maintain and modestly grow production this
year,” said Ruttan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Willis in Bogota at 
 awillis21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  