-- Philippine Stocks Rally for Third Day as Consumer Shares Advance
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-06-18T03:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/philippine-stocks-rally-for-third-day-as-consumer-shares-advance.html
Philippine  stocks  rallied for a
third day, led by consumer stocks, after funds sent home by
overseas Filipinos grew more than expected and UBS AG said
domestic consumption is continuing its “growth momentum.”  SM Investments Corp. (SM) , owner of the nation’s biggest grocery
and department store operators, rose 2.6 percent.  Philippine
Long Distance Telephone Co. (TEL) , owner of the nation’s largest
mobile phone provider, jumped 4.1 percent.  Alliance Global Group
Inc. (AGI)  rose 2.2 percent after the Philippine Daily Inquirer
reported today that the nation’s gaming revenue may reach $2.5
billion this year.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  climbed 2.3 percent to
6,483.23 at 11:08 a.m. in Manila, poised for its biggest three-day gain since September 2011. The gauge has rebounded 6 percent
since sinking to a five-month low on June 13. Funds sent home by
Filipinos, which account for 10 percent of the economy, grew 6.1
percent in April from a year earlier, compared with a 4.1
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  “Positive sentiments brought about by better-than-expected
remittance growth is helping sustain the market rebound,” said
Astro del Castillo, managing director at First Grade Finance
Inc. in  Manila . “The positive consumer outlook by UBS
reinforces expectations that spending will remain resilient.”  Earnings at the nation’s consumer sector companies are
forecast to grow 17 percent in the next two years, boosted by
double-digit sales growth, according to a UBS report today.  “Established brands with extensive distribution networks,
sound strategies and a good track record on execution will be
the winners,” Chesca Bugia Tenorio, a UBS analyst, wrote in the
report. “Overall consumption growth is evident in the food-manufacturing and restaurant segments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  