-- Philippine Bonds Fall on Retail Debt Speculation; Peso Weakens
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-06-18T08:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/philippine-bonds-fall-on-retail-debt-speculation-peso-weakens.html
Philippine bonds fell, pushing the
six-year yield to a three-month high, after the government
outlined plans to sell more debt. The peso weakened.  The Bureau of the Treasury is in talks with banks over a
possible retail notes offer, plans to sell inflation-linked
securities for the first time in the fourth quarter and will
return to the global market in 2014 after this year’s absence,
Treasurer Rosalia de Leon said yesterday. The  Federal Reserve 
starts a two-day meeting today that may provide more information
on whether it will reduce debt-buying, known as quantitative
easing, that has fueled fund flows to  emerging markets .  “The market is speculating on a retail bond issuance next
quarter,” said Bunny Bernardo-Recto, vice president at
Chinatrust  Philippines  Commercial Bank Corp. in Manila. “The
market is also waiting for Fed comments on QE.”  The yield on the 3.875 percent bond due November 2019 rose
30 basis points, or 0.3 percentage point, to 3.15 percent as of
4:02 p.m. in Manila, according to Tradition Financial Services
prices. That was the highest level since March 5 and the biggest
increase since the notes were sold in November.  The Philippines sold a record 188 billion pesos ($4.4
billion) of 25-year retail bonds in October 2012. The Treasury
raised 30 billion pesos today from a regular debt auction.  The peso fell 0.6 percent to 43.115 per dollar, according
to Tullett Prebon Plc. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
rose five basis points to 8.36 percent.  President  Benigno Aquino  met with his cabinet yesterday to
determine ways to sustain economic growth after a 7.8 percent
expansion in the first quarter that was the fastest in Asia,
Cabinet Secretary Jose Rene Almendras told reporters today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  