-- Pimco Cools on Covered Debt After Record Rally: Credit Markets
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-06-18T15:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/pimco-cools-on-covered-debt-after-record-rally-credit-markets.html
Europe ’s covered bond market is
falling out of favor with Pacific Investment Management Co.
after a record rally sent relative yields to a three-year low.  “Investors are looking for other asset classes where they
can achieve a better return on their risk,” said Timo Boehm, a
 money manager  focusing on European covered debt at Pimco, which
manages about $2 trillion of assets including the world’s
biggest bond fund. Some highly rated alternatives including
sovereign-backed and agency notes are “much cheaper,” he said,
speaking by telephone from Munich last week.  Euro-denominated covered notes yielded 63 basis points more
than swap rates in May, down from last year’s high of 208 basis
points in January and the least since April 2010 following the
steepest rally in Bank of America Merrill Lynch data going back
to 1996. The securities, sold in Europe since the 18th century
and backed by mortgages and public sector loans, are about the
most expensive relative to quasi- government bonds  since 2008.  Pimco has reduced bets on covered notes after previously
holding a greater percentage than is contained in the benchmarks
it tracks, Boehm said. Global sales of the debt slumped 43
percent to $136.1 billion this year as a European central bank
funding plan and sluggish credit growth in the recession-plagued
region deterred issuance, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  New Markets  Yields on European covered bonds have plunged to an average
1.66 percent, from 5.43 percent at the height of the financial
crisis in 2008, the Merrill Lynch indexes show. Italian lender
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) of 4 percent
covered notes due January 2018 yielded 97 basis points more than
swaps as of June 14, Bloomberg prices show. Similar-maturity
Italian government bonds offered a 217 basis-point spread.  The securities, which are generally guaranteed by the
issuer with the assets staying on their balance sheets, are
highly rated. More than 60 percent of Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s covered bond index is graded AAA, boosting their appeal
when risk-sentiment deteriorates.  “Investors definitely have appetite for covered bonds,
which is why they are trading extremely tight,” said Lucette Yvernault, a London-based  fund manager  at Schroder Investment
Management Ltd., which has about $359 billion invested.  Default Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. rose. The Markit CDX
North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 0.7 basis point to a mid-price of 82.6 basis points as
of 10:57 a.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, increased 0.7 basis point to 17 basis points
as of 10:56 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when investors
seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows
when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of Chevron Corp. are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today, accounting
for 9.8 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1 million or
more as of 10:59 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Investment Grade  The second-largest U.S. oil company sold $6 billion of
bonds yesterday in a four-part offering, Bloomberg data show.
Its $2.25 billion of 3.191 percent, 10-year notes issued at par
rose to 100.654 cents on the dollar to yield 3.114 percent,
Trace data show.  The  Bloomberg Global Investment Grade Corporate Bond Index (BCOR) 
has gained 0.78 percent this month, paring the decline for the
year to 1 percent.  Investors have earned more from holdings of euro-denominated covered bonds this year than debt sold by eurozone
sovereigns or investment-grade companies in the region.  The securities  returned  2.2 percent in 2013, including
reinvested interest, as government bonds and company debt each
gained 1 percent, Bloomberg indexes show. Spreads closed June 14
at an average 74 basis points, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  Investors, borrowers, analysts and policy makers are
gathering in Brussels this week to discuss the asset-backed
 securities market , including covered bonds, at a conference put
on by the Information Management Network and the Association for
Financial Markets in Europe.  Australia, Belgium  Offerings outside Europe are accounting for a larger
portion of the market as traditional issuers stay away. Sales in
currencies other than the euro comprised 29 percent of the
total, from 18 percent in 2010, the data show.  Banks from  Australia  to  Belgium  have started issuance in
the last two years, while  South Korea  and  Singapore  are mulling
legislation to follow suit.  Covered bond sales this year are likely to fall short of
forecasts, with lenders on pace to sell 80 billion euros to 100
billion euros of benchmark securities, Pimco’s Boehm said.  Spanish mortgage lending  fell  to 3.1 billion euros in
March, a decline of 90 percent from the peak of the credit boom
in January 2007,  Spain ’s national statistics institute said May
28. U.K. lenders have approved an average 51,700 mortgages a
month since June last year, about half the average in the decade
before the financial crisis struck,  Bank of England  data show.  ‘Gaining Traction’  The U.K.’s Funding for Lending Scheme and a European
Central Bank financing program are helping banks access cash to
encourage lending, which is further reducing lenders’ reliance
on bond investors.  Some banks are taking advantage of the pent-up demand to
use new collateral types to sell notes. Covered bonds supported
by loans to small- and medium-sized enterprises are “gaining
traction as a new funding tool,” Moody’s Investors Service
wrote in a report this month.  Commerzbank AG paid 94.2 basis points more than government
debt to sell Europe’s first notes backed by the asset class in
February, data compiled by Bloomberg show. German issuers pay an
average 25 basis points more than the sovereign benchmark to
sell covered debt, Merrill Lynch indexes show.  While European credit growth has shown some signs of
recovery, the extra bank funding needs aren’t yet trickling into
bond markets, said Gareth Davies, head of European asset-backed
securities research at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London .  “Lending is moving in the right direction in Northern
Europe, but it’s from such a low starting point that there’s
little for people to be shouting about,” Davies said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  