-- Prudential Defends Captives Amid Regulator’s Critique
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-06-18T13:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/prudential-defends-captives-amid-regulator-s-critique.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, defended its use of
reinsurance subsidiaries to transfer liabilities, a week after
 New York ’s financial regulator said such deals can mask risk.  “We don’t use captives to reduce the reserves that we
hold, and we don’t use captives to reduce the capital that we
hold.” Prudential Vice Chairman Mark Grier said today in a
presentation held by the  Newark , New Jersey-based insurer. “The
economic benefit to us arises from the efficiency that we get
from isolating and managing certain kinds of risk in separate
entities, and that’s the end of the story.”  Some insurers use captives to lower the amount of capital
they’re required to hold, New York Department of Financial
Services Superintendent  Benjamin Lawsky  said in a report last
week that didn’t identify the firms. He said the subsidiaries,
typically based in other jurisdictions, are sometimes
capitalized with letters of credit or intra-company guarantees,
which can leave the parent vulnerable if losses mount.  Grier said that Prudential bases its captives in the same
locations as the entities that are offloading risk. That helps
provide transparency to regulators and ratings companies, he
said. Prudential avoids risky assets in the captives, he said.  “We hold appropriate assets backing reserves in our
captives,” he said. “No letters of credit, no naked parental
guarantees, no hollow assets.”  Prudential has  advanced  35 percent this year through
yesterday, and MetLife Inc., the largest U.S. life insurer, has
gained 36 percent.  MetLife (MET) , based in New York, announced plans last month to
combine an offshore reinsurer with U.S. units, citing the
regulatory review and derivatives rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  