-- Putin Agrees to Call for Syrian ‘Transitional Government’
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-06-18T17:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/putin-agrees-to-sign-call-for-syrian-transitional-government-.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
agreed to sign a statement at the Group of Eight summit calling
for the establishment of a “transitional government” in Syria
as quickly as possible, putting more pressure on his ally,
President Bashar al-Assad.  The text of the statement on Syria called for “a
transitional governing body with full executive powers, formed
by mutual consent,” while stopping short of calling for Assad’s
ouster. U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  told reporters it was
“unthinkable” that a transition government could include
Assad.  The G-8 declaration says the leaders endorse a negotiated
end to the civil war and commits $1.5 billion for humanitarian
aid to Syrian refugees.  Putin was isolated among fellow G-8 leaders, including host
Cameron and U.S. President  Barack Obama , for backing Assad in a
bloody conflict that has killed more than 93,000 people. A
British official, who asked not to be identified, called the
summit a clarifying moment in differences over Syria.  While backing a transitional government marked a move
toward the position of the U.S. and other Western nations,
differences remain. Putin said today there is no proof that the
Syrian government has used chemical weapons, as stated by the
U.S., U.K. and  France , and that arming the rebels may
destabilize the situation more.  He said Assad’s opposition includes extremists, comparing
them to the killers of a British soldier last month in  London .  ‘Strong Evidence’  “Among the Syrian opposition there are very many such
criminals, not all but many, who committed the brutal murder in
London,” he said. “The Europeans want to supply weapons to
these people? And who will then control where and in whose hands
they end up?”  After a meeting with French President  Francois Hollande 
today, Obama said both governments “have strong evidence” that
chemical weapons have been used in Syria.  Ben Rhodes , a White House deputy national security adviser,
told reporters traveling with the president to Berlin that the
U.S.  is “pleased with the language” in the G-8 declaration.
He said it represented a “good convergence” of views from all
the leaders.  Russian Pressure  The next step will be a meeting of representatives from the
U.S.,  Russia  and the  United Nations  next week, he said.  “We want the Russians to work with the regime to make sure
they come to the table in a serious fashion,” Rhodes said.  The language on transition in the statement went no further
than that agreed to in Geneva in June 2012 by the United
Nations-sponsored  Syria  Action Group. Still, Cameron said it
represented progress. “That was something that was slipping
away over the last few weeks, bought back onto the table and
agreed right here,” he said.  Cameron made a direct offer to Assad’s supporters within
Syria. “To those who have been loyal to Assad but who know he
has to go, and who want stability in their country, they should
take note at this point,” he said. “Let’s get on with the
process of naming people from the regime, from the opposition
that can sit down and talk.”  The prime minister also said it was an achievement to get
the G-8 to call for an investigation into whether chemical
weapons have been used in Syria. “Reaching this agreement was
not easy,” he said. “It was made possible only by the frank,
open, leader-to-leader discussion at this G-8.”  At the same time as Cameron was hailing progress, Putin was
attacking Obama’s decision to supply small arms to the
opposition elsewhere at the summit. He told reporters it would
destabilize the situation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Enniskillen,  Northern Ireland  at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Enniskillen, Northern Ireland at  iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  