-- QBE Sees Queensland Housing Boost From Currency, Tasmania Lag
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r   a n d   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-06-18T06:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/qbe-sees-queensland-housing-boost-from-currency-tasmania-lag.html
Housing in Australia’s Queensland
state will benefit from a recovery in tourism, while Tasmania’s
jobless rate, the country’s highest, will hurt confidence there,
according to  QBE Insurance Group Ltd. (QBE) ’s Lenders Mortgage
Insurance unit.  Queensland’s housing market, which was battered by a
decline in visitors last year due to a strong currency, is now
on the path to recovery due to recent Australian dollar
weakness, said Jenny Boddington, chief executive officer of QBE
LMI. Tasmania’s market will struggle, she said.  The Australian dollar has fallen 10 percent in the past
three months and the central bank indicated today that the
currency may weaken further. Tasmania had an unemployment rate
of 7.3 percent in May, compared with a national rate of 5.5
percent, government data show.  “With the dollar on a downward trend it can be quite
stimulating,” Boddington said in an interview in Sydney.
“Tasmania is not looking at all optimistic in terms of the
unemployment.”  The LMI unit of  Australia ’s largest insurer provides
lenders’ mortgage insurance on home loans that are more than 80
percent of the value of the home.  Home-buyer sentiment is on the rise across Australia, with
more than a quarter considering buying a property in the next 12
months, compared with 20 percent in 2012, a report from QBE LMI
showed. More than a third of respondents expect  home prices  to
rise this year, according to the survey.  The online survey was based on 1,107 responses between May
1 and 13 from people who had a mortgage or planned to buy a
residential property in the next five years.  Home prices across Australia’s eight state and territory
capitals rose 2.9 percent in May from a year ago, according to
Brisbane-based real estate researcher RP Data.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s 2 percentage points of
 interest-rate cuts  since November 2011 to a record-low 2.75
percent enabled almost half of all home-loan borrowers to get
ahead on payments last year, according to the survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net ;
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  