-- Trade Deal Could Stick U.S. With EU’s Bank Bomb
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2013-06-18T22:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/trade-deal-could-stick-u-s-with-eu-s-bank-bomb.html
With grand rhetoric, Group of Eight
leaders this week seized upon the prospect of a deal between the
U.S. and Europe that would reduce or eliminate tariffs and other
trade barriers. David Cameron, the U.K. prime minister,  called
it  “the biggest bilateral trade deal in history” and “a once-in-a-generation prize” that “we are determined to seize.”  But would the proposed  trans-Atlantic trade agreement 
really be a prize, or would it more closely resemble a poisoned
chalice for the U.S.?  I think the latter is more likely. The European economy is
a mess, with big unanswered questions about how sovereign debt
will be handled and whether a strong fiscal union will be built
in the euro-currency area. The periphery countries are
struggling to recover, and even the two biggest economies,
France and  Germany , seem likely to show unimpressive growth in
the near term.  Italy will continue to have a great deal of public debt and
very little growth for the foreseeable future (see  this 2012
paper  by Bill Cline of the Peterson Institute for International
Economics). Keeping interest rates low rarely works as a
strategy over the business cycle -- unless you are prepared to
accept substantial inflation. Does any of the Italian debt
become a joint obligation of other euro-area members at some
point? It is very hard to see through the murk.  The biggest danger, however, is the European banking
system.  Undercapitalized Banks  The U.S. financial system suffers from large banks
operating globally that are funded with too little equity,
relative to their debts (and relative to their balance sheets).
The most complex U.S. financial institutions are
undercapitalized, posing a significant macroeconomic risk as the
credit cycle unfolds.  Executives at these banks try to allay such concerns by
pointing out that they have more capital than their European
competitors. That is correct.  In a recent report, Fred Cannon, the director of research
at KBW Inc., compares the capital levels at large banks in the
U.S. and Europe, with an emphasis on leverage ratios, by looking
at loss-absorbing equity capital compared with total assets,
without any risk-weighting. (He has graciously allowed  free
access  to his report, for this week only.)  This approach is appealing because risk weights have proved
mistaken in every crisis, most recently in the fiscal
dislocations of the euro area. Euro-area government debt is
regarded by regulators as zero or very low risk weight. That
assumption is dubious at best; future historians will probably
view it as ludicrous.  Comparing leverage ratios across different accounting
regimes involves making assumptions. Cannon provides a
consistent approach to  banks ’ exposure by including all over-the-counter derivatives. This is entirely reasonable because it
implicitly assumes there is risk in gross derivative positions
even when some bets are offset by so-called master netting
agreements with counterparties.  Cannon will probably get a lot of pushback for his
approach, because it has a significant impact on the size of
U.S. banks’ balance sheets by making their total assets and
liabilities larger and their equity levels smaller. But his
calculation is a valid attempt to bridge the difference between
the generally accepted accounting principles in use in the U.S.
and the International Financial Reporting Standards practiced in
Europe.  Failure Risk  In a public discussion recently, a senior financial-services executive insisted that netting agreements never fail.
The assertion was undermined by the fact that his company once
held the view that U.S.  housing prices  never fall, that AAA-rated collateralized debt obligations are always a safe bet and
that there is no default risk in euro-area sovereign debt.  In addition, net exposures mask the risk of runs and
potential insolvency; as my colleague John Parsons has
explained,  gross exposures  can tell us a great deal about
vulnerability and therefore systemic risk.  Using the leverage ratio as defined under the international
bank capital and liquidity rules known as Basel III, Cannon
calculates that  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  has equity worth 4.6
percent of total assets, while  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  stands at
4.5 percent, and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  (with the most leverage of the
big eight U.S. banks) is at 3.8 percent.  The slightly good news in recent months is that regulators,
both at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Federal
Reserve’s Board of Governors, have indicated that they would
like to increase the amount of loss-absorbing equity at U.S.
banks, as calculated on a leverage ratio basis. Sheila Bair, the
former chairman of the FDIC, has long called for  a leverage
ratio  of at least 8 percent for big U.S. banks. (I’m a member of
the  Systemic Risk Council  created by Bair after she left public
office.)  Whatever your view of the right level of loss-absorbing
equity capital in the U.S., the European numbers are alarming.
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  does worst, with a Basel III leverage ratio of
2 percent (up only slightly after recent capital raising), while
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  is at 2.7 percent, and BNP Paribas is at 3.3
percent. (Their Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratios are much
closer to the U.S. levels thanks to  risk-weighting calculations 
that are deeply flawed.)  Barclays Plc (BARC)  is hardly better, with a leverage ratio of 2.9
percent, though Anat Admati and Martin Hellwig’s book, “ The
Bankers’ New Clothes ,” which argues for higher equity
requirements, has been well received in some official circles in
the U.K. But the U.K.’s European partners reject the idea of
higher levels, and the web of European treaty commitments makes
any change difficult.  To the French and German governments, very low levels of
bank equity are a feature of their financial systems, not a bug.
This, of course, is a recipe for distortions, instability and,
most likely, repeated disaster.  Should the U.S. be tied more closely to the European
economy under such circumstances? The benefits seem dubious --
trade analysis doesn’t include assessments of how further
integration would increase U.S. volatility, or who bears the
brunt of credit crunches when they occur.  And it would be a very bad idea for the U.S.-Europe
negotiations to include financial services in any significant
form, as the industry is  strongly requesting .  The Europeans’ policy on financial regulation is a
millstone. It shouldn’t also be tied around the neck of the U.S.
economy.  (Simon Johnson, a professor at the MIT Sloan School of
Management, as well as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, is  co-author  of “White House
Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 