-- RBS Breakup Suggested as Option for Cameron by U.K. Lawmakers
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-06-18T22:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/rbs-breakup-suggested-as-option-for-cameron-by-u-k-lawmakers.html
The U.K. government should consider
breaking up  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and hiving off its
toxic assets into a “bad bank,” lawmakers said in a report
that suggests the lender isn’t ready to return to private hands.  “The government should immediately announce a process for
considering alternative strategies for the future of RBS,
including splitting the bank and putting its bad assets in a
separate legal entity,” the Parliamentary Commission on Banking
Standards said in its final  report  published in  London . It urged
the government to carry out a “detailed analysis” and report
by September.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has said he
doesn’t favor breaking up RBS, which is 81 percent owned by the
government, partly because a full nationalization costing
billions of pounds of public money would be required. Osborne
will set out his plans for RBS and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,
which is 39 percent state-owned, in his speech at London’s
Mansion House tomorrow.  RBS, based in Edinburgh, was bailed out during the global
financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 in a 45.5 billion-pound ($71
billion) rescue, the costliest ever for the banking industry.  The timetable for privatizing the bank was thrown into
question last week when Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester 
said he plans to quit before the end of the year at the request
of the board, instead of presiding over the exit from state
ownership as he had hoped. No successor has been named.  ‘Weak’ Position  RBS’s “capital position remains weak, impairing its
ability to provide the levels of lending or competition needed
for the restoration of vitality to the banking sector and for
the U.K.’s full  economic recovery ,” the commission said. The
bank also “continues to be weighed down by uncertainty over
legacy bad assets and by having the government as its main
shareholder.”  The commission said the case for  restructuring Lloyds ,
Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, was weaker.  Lloyds “has suffered far less from the effect of public
ownership and the perception of political interference than
RBS,” the lawmakers said. “Lloyds appears better placed to
return to the private sector without additional restructuring.”  RBS  closed  today at 323 pence a share, below the 407 pence
where the government says taxpayers break even. Lloyds closed at
62.18 pence, just above the 61-pence-per-share cost of the state
bailout. Osborne has vowed taxpayers will recoup their
investment in the two banks, which required 65.8 billion pounds
of public money to keep them afloat.  King’s View  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King , who steps down at the
end of the month, urged in March that RBS be split into a good
bank that could fund itself and a bad bank containing
unprofitable assets, with the government taking the loss.
Osborne has said he isn’t persuaded, and wants to transform the
bank into an institution focused on increasing credit to U.K.
companies and households.  Splitting RBS could lead to “significant advantages” by
“focusing the good bank on U.K. retail and commercial banking
and, by freeing it from legacy problems, strengthening its
ability to lend,” said the commission. A split would make RBS
“a more attractive investment proposition which could
subsequently be privatized at a good price,” it said.  The commission also said the government should consider
whether a split would lead to a quicker privatization of the
good bank, examine which assets would go into the good and bad
banks and evaluate costs to the taxpayer accordingly.  “If the operational and legal obstacles to a good bank/bad
bank split are insuperable, the government should tell
Parliament why and submit its analysis to scrutiny,” the report
said. “The government should also examine and report to
Parliament on the scope for disposing of any RBS good bank as
multiple entities rather than one large bank, to support the
emergence of a more diverse and competitive retail banking
market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in in Enniskillen,  Northern Ireland  on
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  