-- Treasury 10-Year Notes in Narrowest Range in Month as Fed Meets
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-06-18T21:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/treasuries-hold-losses-before-fed-meeting-consumer-price-data.html
Treasury 10-year note yields were in
the tightest range in more than a month amid speculation the
 Federal Reserve  may indicate when it will begin slowing bond
purchases at the end of its two-day policy meeting tomorrow.  Yields rose earlier even after reports showed consumer
prices increased in May at a slower pace than forecast, staying
below the Fed’s target inflation rate, and housing starts
trailed forecasts. The yield  gap  between 10-year Treasuries and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of traders’
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was
at almost a 17-month low.  “No one wants to take on too much risk before they hear
from the Fed,” said  Scott Graham , head of government bond
trading at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit in
 Chicago , one of the 21 primary dealers that trade with the
central bank. “If we get some sign of tapering sooner than
later, the market will take it rough and we should see new highs
in yields. And if they are dovish, we should rally.”  The benchmark  10-year yield  was little changed at 2.19
percent at 5 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices, after rising three basis points earlier, or 0.03
percentage point, and falling one basis point. The price of the
1.75 percent security maturing in May 2023 lost 1/32, or 31
cents per $1,000 face amount, to 96 1/8. The yield climbed five
basis points yesterday.  Ten-year note yields traded in a 4.88 basis-point  range 
between 2.216 and 2.1673 percent, the narrowest since May 9.  Real Yields  Real yields on 10-year Treasuries after subtracting the
annualized increase in consumer prices for May were about 80
basis points, compared with an average of about nine basis
points this year.  The 10-year  break-even  rate increased three basis points to
2.09 percentage points after touching 2 percentage points on
June 13, the lowest level since January 2012. The average over
the past 12 months is 2.38 percentage points.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will hold a press conference
tomorrow after Federal Open Market Committee policy makers end
their meeting and issue a statement and economic forecasts.
Bernanke said last month the central bank could reduce its $85
billion in monthly bond purchases, known as quantitative easing,
if there’s sustainable improvement in employment.  Investors should buy U.S. 10-year notes as yields rise
toward 2.3 percent before the FOMC announcement,  William O’Donnell , head U.S. government-bond strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , a primary dealer, wrote in a note to clients.  ‘Bit Dovish’  Investors should not “be selling into weakness ahead of
the meeting on this most recent tapering fear,” O’Donnell
wrote. While the Fed “would like to begin the tapering
process,” it will probably go “no further than that in
advancing the conversation and if anything, being a bit dovish
away from that in order to soothe ruffled market feathers.”  The central bank will trim its bond purchases to $65
billion a month at the Oct. 29-30 Federal Open Market Committee
meeting, according to a  Bloomberg News  survey of economists.  The Fed bought $1.46 billion of Treasuries today maturing
from February 2036 to February 2043, according to the  website  of
the Fed Bank of New York. Dealers submitted $2.82 billion of the
securities.  The U.S. consumer price index was up 0.1 percent after
falling 0.4 percent in April, the Labor Department reported in
 Washington . The median forecast of 82 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for an increase of 0.2 percent. The core
index, which excludes volatile food and fuel costs, climbed 0.2
percent as projected.  Stimulus Space  For the 12 months that ended in May, consumer prices
increased 1.4 percent, versus a 1.1 percent year-over-year gain
reported in April that was the lowest since 2010. The central
bank’s inflation target is 2 percent.  Low inflation gives the Fed room to maintain record
economic stimulus as policy makers seek to lower a jobless rate
of 7.6 percent, even amid signs of economic improvement. Reports
yesterday showed homebuilder confidence climbed to a seven-year
high and New York-area manufacturing unexpectedly increased.  The data put “more things on the question list,” said  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at FTN Financial in  Memphis ,
 Tennessee .  ‘So Ambiguous’  “It’s not that you lay out the evidence and say, ‘Oh, my
God, it’s so obvious,’” Vogel said. “You lay out the evidence
and say, ‘Oh, my God, it’s so ambiguous.’”  Thirty-year bond  yields declined one basis point to 3.34
percent after increasing two basis points earlier and falling as
much as three basis points.  The yield gap between 10- and 30-year Treasuries narrowed
to 1.16 percentage points today after touching 1.19 on June 14,
the widest on an intraday basis in three weeks. Historically, a
so-called steeper yield curve reflects diminishing demand from
investors anticipating faster economic growth and inflation. A
flatter yield curve reflects rising demand from investors
anticipating slower economic growth and inflation.  Housing starts  rose 6.8 percent in May to a 914,000
annualized rate, the Commerce Department reported. A Bloomberg
survey forecast a 950,000 rate.  U.S. Treasury note investors’ optimism climbed this week,
according to a JPMorgan weekly poll of clients that showed the
first net-long position, or bet the securities would increase in
value, since April. It was the highest net-long reading since
January.  The net percentage increased to 4 percent, from negative 17
percent the previous week. The net figure is the difference
between the percentage of investors expecting prices on the debt
to increase and those taking short positions on the securities,
or betting that prices will fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  