-- Boehner to Insist on Republican Immigration-Bill Majority
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-06-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/rohrabacher-warns-of-boehner-ouster-on-u-s-immigration.html
House Speaker John Boehner said he
won’t bring an immigration bill to a vote unless it has the
support of most Republicans in the chamber.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, sought to quell any idea that
he might rely on Democrats and a handful of Republicans to pass
a rewrite of U.S. immigration law after a fellow Republican said
that could cost the speaker his job. Boehner’s comments show it
will be difficult for Congress to pass a comprehensive bill,
particularly in the House.  Representative Dana Rohrabacher, a California Republican,
said yesterday that Boehner should be ousted if he pushes an
immigration measure through the House without the Republican
majority’s support.  “If the majority of Republicans in the House are opposed
to the immigration reform bill, then if the speaker tries to
shove that through anyway he should be removed from his
leadership position,” Rohrabacher said in an interview. “He
can use his influence to try and get the majority of Republicans
on his side. He’s got every right to twist arms and use his
influence.”  Boehner told reporters yesterday he doesn’t “see any way”
that he would bring an immigration bill to the floor without the
backing of most House Republicans. He said Republicans will hold
a special conference July 10 to map out strategy for an
immigration measure.  Boehner spoke on the same day the Congressional Budget
Office  estimated  that a bipartisan immigration bill being
debated in the Democratic-led Senate would reduce the  federal
budget  deficit by about $175 billion over a decade and by $700
billion during the second 10 years it is implemented.  Citizenship Path  The Senate bill seeks to balance a path to citizenship for
about 11 million undocumented immigrants, sought by Democrats,
with Republicans’ goal of tighter border security. Democratic
leaders are seeking to pass the measure by July 4.  “Any immigration reform bill that is going to go into law
ought to have the majority of both parties’ support,” Boehner
said. He has said an immigration rewrite is a top priority for
this Congress.  Under an internal House practice routinely used by former
Speaker Dennis Hastert, an Illinois Republican, the speaker
doesn’t bring legislation to the floor unless most of the
Republican majority support it. Boehner, speaker since 2011,
hasn’t always applied the informal custom. In January, he relied
on Democratic support to pass a budget deal backed by less than
half of his Republican caucus.  ‘Limited Chance’  Senator Richard Durbin of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-ranking Democrat and a co-sponsor of the Senate immigration
bill, said yesterday that the only way to pass a comprehensive
measure is with bipartisan support.  “I hope that Speaker Boehner realizes the only way to
success in the House on the same issue is on a bipartisan basis.
If he insists on this being a Republican-authored and inspired
program, it has limited chance of success,” Durbin said in an
interview.  The Obama administration said the CBO analysis, along with
last month’s report by the Social Security Administration’s
chief actuary, bolsters its argument for changing the
immigration system.  The CBO report is “more proof that bipartisan common-sense
immigration reform will be good for economic growth and deficit
reduction,” White House press secretary Jay Carney said in a
statement.  Tax Revenue  The nonpartisan congressional scorekeeper said increased
tax revenue from new U.S. residents would outpace growth in the
demand for government services. Republicans have maintained that
the measure would be a drain on the federal budget.  CBO estimated that the legislation would result in about 8
million undocumented immigrants gaining legal status and add
about 10.4 million U.S. residents by 2023.  Senate Democrats and Republicans are negotiating tougher
border security measures to add to the bill. Republicans
including Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky  and
Marco Rubio of  Florida , one of the measure’s sponsors, have said
they won’t support it without more stringent border control.  Senator John Hoeven of North Dakota is among the
Republicans participating in the talks. He said yesterday he was
developing a proposal to create “metrics that verify that the
border is secure” before any undocumented immigrant could gain
permanent legal residency.  ‘More Acceptable’  Hoeven said his proposal would provide $3.2 billion for
resources based on what the administration says it would need
for drones and other technology to strengthen the border.  That would be a “much more acceptable approach,” Durbin
said. “We’re waiting to see if they come back with anything
like that.”  Boehner said the Senate bill’s initial border-control
provisions were “laughable,” echoing the stance of other House
Republicans that border-security measures should be
strengthened.  “We know that border security is absolutely essential if
we’re going to give people confidence that we can do the rest of
what’s being suggested,” Boehner told reporters in  Washington 
yesterday.  The House has yet to consider immigration proposals. A
bipartisan group of lawmakers is expected to announce a
comprehensive plan as soon as next week.  Strengthening Enforcement  The House Judiciary Committee, led by Chairman Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican, is considering individual
pieces of legislation. The panel started yesterday with a bill
that would strengthen enforcement of existing immigration laws,
including giving states the authority to carry them out.  That bill is drawing criticism from a Democratic member of
the House bipartisan group.  “While our country demands solutions and leadership,
Republicans are feeding the partisan monster red meat as if
their calendars already read 2014,” Representative Luis Gutierrez of Illinois said on the House floor yesterday,
referring to next year’s midterm elections. “Do not push
forward a bill that criminalizes every immigrant family and
makes everyone think twice before they call 9-1-1.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  