-- Rolls-Royce Jet-Engine Head Reviews Operations Ahead of Ramp-Up
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-18T16:39:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/rolls-royce-jet-engine-head-reviews-operations-ahead-of-ramp-up.html
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  is
undertaking a review of its civil aerospace-engine operations
under a new unit head to prepare for an an unprecedented
production increase in a booming wide-body market.  Tony Wood, who moved to the post from the marine turbine
unit at London-based Rolls-Royce, said he’s found the business
to be in “good shape” as he combs through his remit and
reviews a possible strain on suppliers from higher output.  Rolls-Royce announced a surprise change in management at
its most important division at the start of last month when Mark King said he would step down for undisclosed reasons. Wood said
he is shifting attention from meeting customers to gain clarity
on operations to determine if changes are needed to cope with
extra demand.  Rolls-Royce, which powered the Airbus SAS A350 first flight
on June 14 with its TrentXWB, also will have a Trent engine on
offer for the  Boeing Co. (BA)  787-10 the Chicago-based planemaker
introduced today.  “This is the clearest view we’ve had in our history on our
volume,” Wood said in an interview at the  Paris Air Show . “We
had 2,200 Trents in service at the end of last year and that
will double over the course of the next five years.”  Rolls has focused on the market for long-range planes after
exiting a joint venture that included  United Technologies
Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt & Whitney unit to power short-haul models.  “We have made big commitments in investing in both the 787
and A350,” Wood said. “We are now starting to move through to
a huge focus on the profitable execution of those programs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  