-- Brazil Protests Persist After Cities Revoke Fare Increase
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-06-20T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/rousseff-vows-to-listen-to-message-of-brazilian-protests.html
A series of paralyzing street
protests showed little sign of abating after officials in
 Brazil ’s two largest cities bowed to popular demand and revoked
an increase in bus fares.  Authorities in  Sao Paulo  and Rio de Janeiro yesterday said
they were scrapping the increases even as they struggle with
strained budgets to pay for the cuts. Starting June 24, bus and
subway tickets in Sao Paulo will cost 3 reais ($1.35), the same
price before a 20 centavo increase took effect this month.  Organizers of the nation’s biggest protests in almost two
decades had vowed to remain on the streets until fares were
lowered. Still, the decision over transport costs may be too
late to quell a movement that has mushroomed into a catch-all
for discontent over everything from  inflation  to the quality of
public education. Last night, masked protesters tried to
commandeer  Latin America ’s longest bridge, and a march is
scheduled in Sao Paulo today.  “We don’t expect people to just quit protesting,” Rio
Mayor Eduardo Paes said while announcing the fare cuts. “People
are protesting for more than just bus fares, and that’s their
right. We’re just listening to what they’re saying, and this is
a way to show it.”  The nation’s attention yesterday was on the city of
Fortaleza, in the country’s northeast, where the unrest stole
the spotlight from the nation’s love of soccer.  Blatter Leaves  There, police battled an estimated 25,000 demonstrators who
gathered outside of the stadium where the national team was
hosting  Mexico  to protest excessive spending ahead of next
year’s FIFA  World Cup . Police fired tear gas and rubber bullets
to repel the crowd, some of whom responded by throwing stones.  Inside the arena, fans held up signs denouncing corruption
and bearing what’s become the student-led movement’s rallying
cry: “the giant has awakened,” a reference to Brazil’s
national anthem. Soccer legend Pele, in a  video , called on
Brazilians to “forget all this confusion that’s happening in
Brazil” and refrain from booing the national squad.  Amid the unrest Sepp Blatter, head of soccer’s governing
body, departed Brazil, surprising officials who had expected him
to remain for the length of the two-week Confederations Cup, a
warm-up to next year’s tournament. FIFA said Blatter was
traveling to  Turkey  to attend the Under-20 World Cup and will
return to Brazil June 26 for the semi-finals.  Market Turmoil  President  Dilma Rousseff , who was jeered at a packed
stadium June 15, has been trying to get ahead of the protests,
which reached a peak June 17 when more than 200,000 people
marched in 12 cities.  “The voices of the street want more citizenship, health,
transportation, opportunities,” Rousseff, who was jailed and
tortured for taking up arms against Brazil’s 1964-1985 military
dictatorship, said earlier this week. “My government hears
those voices.”  The crisis comes as  emerging markets  are being battered by
investors and Brazil struggles to recover from its second-worst
economic performance in 13 years. Latin America’s biggest
economy is forecast to grow 2.49 percent this year after
expanding 0.9 percent in 2012.  The real plunged 1.9 percent yesterday, the most in a year,
and Brazilian stocks fell to a four-year low as investors
abandon emerging markets on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
begin tapering an $85 billion per month bond-buying program that
has helped keep  interest rates  down.  Yesterday was also marked by some of the first daytime
disturbances in Brazil, as protesters burned tires and blocked
traffic on a highway in Sao Bernardo, a working-class suburb of
Sao Paulo. In Brasilia, activists backed up traffic for miles.  Airport Closure  Come nightfall, some of the protests turned violent. The
13-kilometer (8-mile) bridge connecting Rio with sister city
Niteroi was closed during rush hour as riot police tried to
block a violent group working their way to the thoroughfare.
They instead tried to set fire to a bus with a motorist inside.
Security was beefed up at Sao Paulo’s main domestic airport,
known as Congonhas, amid fears it would be occupied.  Since the start of protests, several state capitals,
including Cuiaba and  Porto Alegre , have reduced bus fares. Sao
Paulo Mayor Fernando Haddad, a member of Rousseff’s Workers’
Party, had resisted such a move for fear it would bankrupt his
government, which already spends 1.2 billion reais on subsidies
for transportation.  Olympic Host  Paes said the decision to cut fares will cost Rio, the host
city of the 2016  Olympic Games , as much as 500 million reais a
year. Earlier in the day Haddad said that freezing fares at 3
reais would cost 2.7 billion reais in annual subsidies by 2016.  A bill working its way through the Senate that would cut
taxes for public transport companies could provide some relief
as well.  The Free Fare Movement, which has helped organize the
protests, said it will go ahead with a march scheduled for
today, adding that it hopes for a record turnout to celebrate
its gains and to pressure cities that have yet to lower fares.  “This is a big victory for the population, for the street,
for the fight,” Marian Vivian, a 23-year-old waitress and
geography student who speaks on behalf of the movement, said by
phone from Sao Paulo. “The governor and the mayor were scared
to death. They’re not used to movements this big.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Goodman  in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  