-- Ruble Falls Most in Two Months as Ministry Seeks Weaker Currency
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-06-18T11:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/ruble-falls-most-in-two-months-as-ministry-seeks-weaker-currency.html
The ruble sank the most in two
months as oil fell and investors bet on declines after the
Finance Minister supported a weaker currency.  The ruble dropped 1.1 percent against the central bank’s
dollar-euro basket, the most since April 17, to trade at 36.8825
by 1:26 p.m. in Moscow. The yield on OFZ ruble bonds due 2027
rose eight basis points to 7.64 percent.  Russia  is weighing a weaker ruble to spur flagging growth
and is considering buying foreign currency on the market before
sending oil and gas revenue to its  Reserve Fund , Finance
Minister Anton Siluanov said in an interview last week. Crude
oil, Russia’s main export earner, declined 0.2 percent to
$105.26 a barrel in  London . The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar
Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-traded currencies, slid
to the lowest level since Sept. 12.  A drop in emerging-market currencies and oil are the main
reasons for the ruble’s retreat, Dmitry Polevoy, analyst at ING
Groep NV in Moscow, said in e-mailed comments. “Siluanov is
only an additional factor to realize that authorities prefer
weaker ruble.”  The ruble depreciated 0.8 percent against the dollar to
31.3997. Three-month volatility rose 13 basis points to 10.015,
compared with this year’s high of 11.1950 on June 7, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Conducting transactions for the Reserve Fund on the market
would be “a neutral operation in terms of buying and selling
currency, which, according to estimates, may weaken the ruble
exchange rate by 1 to 2 rubles,” Siluanov said.  In current market conditions, the net impact of the  Finance
Ministry ’s purchases on the local  currency market  should be
relatively muted, Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief economist at
Otkritie Financial Corporation, said in an e-mailed note.  Psychological Effect  “If  oil prices  remain at their current levels, the Finance
Ministry will need to buy a maximum of $2 billion to $3 billion
a month, which accounts for only 0.5 percent to 1 percent of the
monthly turnover in dollars on the Moscow Exchange,” Tikhomirov
said.  The comments are having a psychological effect on the
currency, according to Mikhail Palei, foreign exchange trader at
VTB Capital.  “If the finance minister says the ruble to dollar could be
1 to 2 rubles weaker, people start worrying,” Palei said in e-mailed comments.  The  Bloomberg Composite Index (BEM)  of emerging-market dollar-denominated debt rose less than 0.1 percent on June 17 to
133.56, climbing for a fourth day.  Bank Rossii, which reports FX intervention data with a one-day lag,  spent  the equivalent of 2.2 billion rubles of foreign
currency on June 14, about a third of what it spent in previous
four days. According to traders, the central bank intervenes
after a level of 35.65 rubles against the basket.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  