-- Russia to Tailor Dividend Payout Plans for Each State Company
-- B y   E v g e n i a   P i s m e n n a y a ,   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-06-18T10:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/russia-to-tailor-dividend-payout-plans-for-each-state-company.html
Russia’s government plans to set
dividend policies individally for each state-controlled company
as the Finance Ministry works out a deal to boost budget revenue
and attract investors.  “The decision was made to develop a dividend policy for
each company, taking into account its specific situation,”
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said in an interview in Moscow
after a meeting led by President Vladimir Putin on economic
stimulus measures last week.  The world’s largest energy exporter is seeking to balance
its budget after Putin pledged to boost social spending during
his campaign for a third term in Kremlin. Russia will face its
biggest budget strains starting from 2016 and needs to find new
ways to boost fiscal revenues, Siluanov told officials after
Putin’s annual budget address on June 13. Russia had planned to
close the gap by 2015.  “The Economy and Finance Ministries, along with the
ministries overseeing the specific industry, should calculate
the amount of dividends to be paid by each company, preferably,
for future years,” Siluanov said.  The Finance Ministry has been pushing to increase payouts
by state companies to 35 percent of net income from 25 percent,
battling opposition from the  Economy Ministry .  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , the
world’s biggest oil producer by output, pledged last year to
disburse 25 percent of profit according to international
accounting standards.  ‘Additional Funds’  Higher dividend payouts “will raise the market value of
the companies and provide additional budget funds,” Siluanov
said. “The funds received may be channeled into state
investments.”  Russia may raise the payout ratio for state companies by
2015 if the economy is stable and shows “good growth rates,”
First Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov said May 23. The first
step is to get the companies to pay out at least a quarter of
earnings under Russian accounting standards and then to shift
them to International Financial Reporting Standards.  “We’ve reached an understanding that companies reporting
under IFRS must pay dividends under IFRS,” Siluanov said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Evgenia Pismennaya in Moscow at 
 epismennaya@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  