-- Russian Schools to Teach Putin’s Version of History
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-06-18T14:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/russian-schools-to-teach-putin-s-version-of-history.html
Like  Josef Stalin  before him,
Russian President  Vladimir Putin  has decided that schoolchildren
are confronted with too many versions of their country’s
history.  So he’s planning to provide his own.  This week, the newspaper Vedomosti  published  a document in
which government officials set out guidelines for a definitive
series of history textbooks, meant to replace the myriad texts
currently being used in Russian schools. Under Putin’s orders,
the Russian Academy of Sciences and the Historical Society must
submit proposals for the official books by November 1, after a
public discussion period.  History has always been a political issue in Russia. In the
1980s, the Soviet Union was arguably undermined as much by a
flood of public revelations about Stalin’s purges as by falling
energy prices. Now, as Putin works to establish a new Russian
ideology, based on Orthodox Christian values and a sense of
national pride, he needs his own official version of history for
the classroom.  “This is a battle for the future,” eminent historian Yuri
Pivovarov  told  TV Dozhd. “What version of the past we get will
determine our future.”  Judging from the guidelines, the official version of
history will hew close to Putin’s. For example, they paint a
stark picture of the rule of Russia’s first president,  Boris Yeltsin : “By the end of the 1990s the country started losing
manageability. A crisis of central authority was exacerbated by
economic failures, rapid changes of government and a war in
Chechnya. Public discontent and separatist sentiment in the
regions grew. The integrity of the country was at stake.”  The section on Putin, who took over from Yeltsin in 2000,
glosses over some important episodes. It makes no mention of a
second war in Chechnya and describes the economic crisis of 2008
and 2009 as a “tactical correction in socioeconomic
development.”  It’s possible that the Putin section won’t make it to the
final version. Two government ministers have said they favor
ending the textbooks in 2000. As Culture Minister Vladimir Medinsky put it, under the Romanovs “the textbooks only
mentioned the previous emperor.”  The guidelines also attempt to paint a “balanced” picture
of Stalin’s rule. They describe Stalin as a modernizer who
brought about  Russia ’s ultra-fast industrialization, laid the
foundation for the Soviet Union’s scientific achievements and
its victory in World War II, but also orchestrated mass purges
“to liquidate a potential fifth column” and used forced labor to
achieve an economic breakthrough.  The soft-lens picture of Stalin is consistent with some of
Putin’s utterances on the tyrant. “I very much doubt that had
Stalin had the atomic bomb in the spring of 1945, he would have
used it on  Germany ,” Putin  said  during a recent visit to the
state-owned Russia Today TV station.  In the 1930s, Stalin  presided  over his own effort to craft
a version of Russia’s 1,000-year history. He personally edited
textbooks, painstakingly marking up manuscripts with a pencil
and criticizing academic working groups for ideological lapses.
The exercise culminated in the publication, in 1938, of the
“Short Course of the History of the Communist Party of the
 Soviet Union ,” a chiseled propaganda masterpiece for which
Stalin wrote a chapter on Marxist philosophy.  Until the demise of the Soviet Union, all history books
were based on Stalin’s structure, terminology and
interpretations, slightly modified by the dictator in charge at
the time. Yeltsin allowed multiple history textbooks that needed
to be vetted only by the Education Ministry. Teachers could
choose freely which book or books to use in class.  Would a single textbook be a totalitarian throwback? Not at
all, according to Putin: “It is the teacher’s business to bring
it to the students’ attention that there are divergent views of
such and such an event.”  The real problem, according to Putin, is the lack of an
official version of events. “Without an official assessment
there will be no backbone of understanding what happened to our
nation in the past decades and centuries,” he  said  during a
call-in session with voters in April. “Last year, we had 41
recommended 10th grade history textbooks, this year we have 65.
Is that normal?”  The guidelines have already provoked harsh reactions. The
popular nationalist blog Sputnik and Pogrom  slammed  them for
being too soft on Stalin: “The ’new education standard’
illustrates the disgusting things that can replace historical
memory if the people (or the ruling Soviet elites) refuse to
talk honestly and frankly about their past.”  The outcome probably won’t please anyone. Given the amount
of disagreement that exists among Russians over the
interpretation and even the facts of their history, it may be
impossible to write a single fair and balanced text.  “We live in transitional times. So the textbook and the
standard approach to history can only, of necessity, be
transitional,” political scientist Dmitri Oreshkin  told  Echo
Moscow radio. “The only thing we can hope for now is a departure
from the Soviet tradition of direct lies and historical
falsification.”  To be fair, the new guidelines are an improvement on the
Stalin textbooks. Still, I’ll miss the heedless pluralism of the
Yeltsin era. In Russia, teaching dozens of versions of national
history may be the only honest approach.  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 