-- Russian May Industry Output Unexpectedly Shrank as Slump Spreads
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-06-18T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/russian-may-industry-output-unexpectedly-shrank-as-slump-spreads.html
Russian  industrial  production
unexpectedly shrank for the first time in three months,
reflecting a slump in foreign demand and weak domestic spending.  Output at factories, mines and utilities declined 1.4
percent in May from a year earlier after a 2.3 percent increase
in April, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said today in
an e-mailed statement. The median estimate of 22 economists in a
Bloomberg  survey  was for a 0.6 percent increase.  Struggling industry suggests sluggish growth is extending
into the second quarter after the $2 trillion economy of the
world’s biggest energy exporter expanded in the first three
months at the weakest pace since a slump ended in 2009, with
mining and utilities output contracting on an annual basis.
That’s hurt valuations of steelmakers including  Evraz Plc (EVR) ,
Russia’s biggest, which has plunged 55 percent this year in
 London  while  OAO Severstal (SVST)  has lost 42 percent.  “May statistics will probably be among the weakest this
year,” Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief economist at Otkritie
Financial Corp. in Moscow, said by phone yesterday. There were
three fewer working days in the month compared with a year ago,
“and it’s very significant for manufacturing,” he said.  The ruble weakened for a fourth month against the dollar in
May, the longest stretch of monthly declines in three years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Russian currency
fell to 32.52 per dollar on June 11, the weakest level since
Aug. 31, before rebounding to 32.0305 at 3:46 p.m. in Moscow.  Manufacturing Shrinks  Russian manufacturing dropped 4.4 percent from a year
earlier in May for the biggest monthly decline this year,
compared with a 1.2 advance in April, according to the
statement. Mining grew 2.3 percent while production at utilities
increased 0.5 percent.  Gross domestic product grew 1.6 percent in the first three
months from a year earlier, decelerating for a fifth quarter and
missing the medium-term target of 5 percent set by Prime
Minister  Dmitry Medvedev . Exports failed to grow in real terms
for an eighth quarter, Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said
last month.  Deteriorating domestic demand has taken a toll on
carmakers, with sales of new vehicles dropping 12 percent in May
from a year ago, according to the Association of European
Businesses in Russia. That was the biggest drop since February
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  May’s data can be explained by the high base effect, with
industry surging 3.7 percent in the year-earlier period,
according to Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist for Russia at  ING
Groep NV (INGA)  and the second-most accurate forecaster of Russian
industrial output in the last two years based on data compiled
by Bloomberg.  ‘Perfect Storm’  “It’s like a perfect storm for industrial output,”
Polevoy said today by e-mail. “Only June’s statistics will give
an accurate picture of reality.”  Lower corporate incomes and profitability led to a
“sharp” decrease in income-tax intake in May after four months
of increases, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said yesterday at
a government meeting.  “There aren’t too many prospects for recovery,” Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist for  Russia  at Bank of America Corp.
in Moscow, said by phone yesterday. “Export demand is
stagnating and domestic demand is not really growing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  