-- SAG Solarstrom May Buy Inverters in China to Offset EU Duties
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2013-06-18T13:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/sag-solarstrom-may-buy-inverters-in-china-to-offset-eu-duties.html
S.A.G. Solarstrom AG, a German
developer of solar-power plants, may buy inverters in  China  to
offset falling margins from European anti-dumping duties that
have made Chinese cells and modules more expensive.  Solarstrom, which has sourced its inverters in Europe from
producers including  SMA Solar Technology AG (S92) , is looking at
alternative suppliers including China’s  Sungrow Power Supply
Co. (300274) , Chief Executive Officer Karl Kuhlmann said today in a phone
interview. The Freiburg-based company may also purchase modules
in  India  and  Korea , he said, adding that he expects a
“revival” for thin-film panels.  “The German modules are too expensive and their quality
doesn’t justify the higher price,” Kuhlmann said. “We’re in
the process of making arrangements to our entire cost structure
so that we can offset moderate price increases.”  The European Commission set provisional duties of 11.8
percent on photovoltaic products from more than 100 Chinese
manufacturers on June 4, an initial rate that’s set to increase
more than fivefold in August should negotiations with China
fail. The duties will cause uncertainty in the markets for two
months and close access to some of them,  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  said
last week.  Those tariffs “are not the right step,” as they raise
project prices and the cost of solar power for developers and
consumers, Kuhlmann said. He likened them to “shooting an own
goal in an empty stadium.”  Inverters, which convert power from solar panels for use in
the grid, are not covered by the EU’s trade spat with China, nor
are modules from countries such as the U.S., India or Korea.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  