-- Saudi Aramco, Dow Venture to Pay 1.25% Above Libor on Bank Loans
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-06-18T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/saudi-aramco-dow-venture-to-pay-1-25-above-libor-on-bank-loans.html
Sadara Chemical Co., the Saudi
Arabian company that raised $10.5 billion in debt this week,
will pay initial interest of 125 basis points over the benchmark
on its dollar loans, a banker familiar with the matter said.  Interest on the loans to Sadara, a venture of Saudi Arabian
Oil Co. and  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , will rise to 155 basis points, or
1.55 percentage points, above the London interbank offered rate
for the first five years after construction of its chemicals
facilities is completed, according to the banker, who asked not
to be identified because the information is private. The rate
will be 185 basis points above the benchmark for the remainder
of the loan’s 16-year tenure, the banker said.  Sadara, which is building the chemicals complex at Jubail
in the  Eastern Province  of the kingdom, raised $2.2 billion from
33 commercial banks this week as part of the financing,
according to the banker. Half that facility was in dollars and
the rest in Saudi riyals, the banker said.  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest crude exporter, is
boosting capacity to refine oil and produce chemicals, to meet
domestic fuel demand and make materials used to manufacture
 consumer goods . The Sadara venture is one of state-run Saudi
Arabian Oil Co.’s biggest projects, along with a refinery and
chemical plant built with  France ’s  Total SA (FP)  in Jubail.  The venture raised $2 billion from the sale of Islamic
bonds in April for the $19.3 billion project. The first units of
the chemicals facility will begin production in the second half
of 2015 and full completion is expected in 2016. The complex
will be the world’s biggest erected in a single phase.  Interest on the riyal loan begins at 75 basis points above
the Saudi interbank offered rate, rising to 120 basis points for
the first five years after construction is completed and then to
135 basis points thereafter, according to the banker. Sadara
also raised $7.05 billion from export credit agencies and $1.3
billion from the Public Investment Fund, the banker said.  An official at Sadara’s public relations department didn’t
immediately comment when contacted by phone and e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  