-- SDL Stock Falls by Record on Profit-Drop Forecast: London Mover
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-06-18T16:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/sdl-stock-falls-by-record-on-profit-drop-forecast-london-mover.html
SDL Plc (SDL)  fell by a record as
faltering economic growth caused first-half earnings to miss the
company’s predictions and the U.K. maker of translation software
forecast a drop in full-year earnings.  SDL declined 30 percent to 271 pence, the biggest fall
since the Maidenhead, England-based company’s initial public
offering in 1999. It was the largest drop among the 600
companies on the FTSE All-Share Index. The number of SDL shares
traded was more than 29 times the three-month daily average.  “The company is now on the back foot, competitors are big
and ugly, and its supporting bedrock of translation services is
of little help to its software ambitions,”  George O’Connor , an
analyst at Panmure Gordon, said in a note to investors. “SDL
should think about what has made the company successful and
consolidate to a narrower customer offer,” said O’Connor, who
maintained a hold recommendation on the stock while cutting his
share-price estimate to 400 pence from 480 pence.  Profit before tax and amortization this year will be in a
range of 15 million pounds ($23.5 million) to 20 million pounds,
down from 35.5 million pounds in 2012. Sales momentum and
bookings at the technology unit in the first half have been
below expectations, while profit in the period at the services
unit is expected to be “significantly below management
expectations,” SDL said in a statement.  “Whilst we did not plan for investments to deliver revenue
in the first half, we expected greater momentum from last year
to carry into the first half,” Chief Executive Officer Mark Lancaster said in the statement.  The stock has lost 47 percent this year, giving the company
a market value of 217.5 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  