-- Shareholders Vote No-Confidence in GSW Immobilien’s CEO
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-06-19T11:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/shareholders-vote-no-confidence-in-gsw-immobilien-s-ceo.html
Shareholders of  GSW Immobilien AG (GIB) ,
Berlin’s largest residential landlord by market value, passed a
vote of no-confidence against its chief executive officer
following investors’ complaints over how he was hired.  The no-confidence motion for CEO Bernd Kottmann got 63.3
percent of votes at the annual shareholder meeting yesterday in
Berlin, exceeding the 50 percent required for passage. A motion
to oust Chairman Eckart John von Freyend, who supervised
Kottmann’s recruitment, got 69.6 percent of votes, falling short
of the 75 percent needed.  “I would have hoped for a different outcome and am sad
about the result,” Kottmann said in an interview after the
vote. “I would like to continue my work at the company.”  GSW, which owns 60,000 apartments in Berlin, said on March
18 that Kottmann would succeed Thomas Zinnoecker as CEO on April
16. A month later, investor PGGM NV called for votes on the
appointment, saying the speed with which Kottmann was chosen
raised questions about whether the search was thorough. The
Dutch pension administrator also criticized Kottmann and Freyend
over their tenure at  IVG Immobilien AG (IVG) , a German real estate
company now in debt-restructuring talks with creditors.  While the vote represents a rebuke for GSW over Kottmann’s
hiring, it doesn’t require him to resign.  ‘Strong Statement’  “This is a very strong statement from shareholders,”
Jorrit Arissen, PGGM’s portfolio manager in charge of European
real estate stocks, said in an interview at the meeting. “Since
the majority of shareholders voted against him, the chairman
should reach his own conclusion and step down.”  PGGM owns about 3 percent of GSW, according to  data
compiled by Bloomberg . Its biggest shareholders are  Sun Life
Financial Inc. (SLF) ,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and  Singapore ’s wealth fund.  The votes were counted after a seven-hour shareholder
meeting in which Freyend repeatedly defended himself against
accusations that he had failed to cast the net widely for a more
qualified candidate and instead hired a former colleague.  Responding to shareholder questions, Chief Operating
Officer Joerg Schwagenscheidt and Chief Financial Officer
Andreas Segal said they hadn’t been asked if they were
interested in the position.  Almost half of GSW shareholders unsuccessfully tried to
obtain information from Freyend about the hiring process before
motions were filed, PGGM said in a statement at the meeting.  Bigger Effort  “We will have to make a bigger effort to communicate about
this and other processes,” Freyend said after the vote. “I
didn’t expect we’d get so much opposition.”  Freyend declined to say whether he or Kottmann would step
down.  “We’ll have to discuss the results in a supervisory board
meeting to be set soon,” he said.  Freyend and Kottmann worked together at IVG Immobilien,
which has lost about 98 percent of its market value since 2008
and is in talks to restructure 3 billion euros ($4 billion) of
debt.  GSW has declined  12 percent  since PGGM called on Kottmann
to quit on May 15, compared with an 8.7 percent decline in the
 EPRA FTSE/NAREIT index  of German property stocks.  Regulatory Probe  The search for a CEO began on Feb. 13 after former GSW CEO
Zinnoecker informed Freyend that he was considering leaving,
Freyend said at the meeting. On Feb. 26, Zinnoecker asked to be
relieved of his contract, Freyend said. On March 11, GSW issued
a statement saying that Zinnoecker is leaving, and on March 18
said it had hired Kottmann.  Germany ’s financial regulator Bafin is investigating why
GSW didn’t inform shareholders about the possible CEO change
immediately after the search began on Feb. 13, a Bafin
spokeswoman said by phone on May 17.  GSW has received Bafin’s questions and is preparing
answers, the company said at the shareholder meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge in London at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  