-- Singapore Voices Concern to Indonesia Over Worst Smog Since 1997
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-06-18T23:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/singapore-voices-concerns-to-indonesia-over-16-year-smog-nadir.html
Singapore  expressed “concerns” to
Indonesia after forest fires in the Indonesian island of Sumatra
enshrouded parts of Malaysia and the city-state, causing its
worst smog in 16 years.  Singapore’s Foreign Affairs and Law Minister K. Shanmugam
emphasized the urgency of the situation and the country’s
commitment to help fight the fires in Sumatra during a telephone
call with Indonesia’s Foreign Minister Marty Natalegawa
yesterday, according to a statement by the city-state
government.  “Minister Shanmugam and Minister Marty agreed that
bilateral and regional cooperation could be further strengthened
to tackle the haze problem and that Indonesian Environment and
Forestry officials could discuss with their Singapore
counterparts ways to better cooperate and deal with the haze
issue,” the government said in the statement late yesterday.  Singapore’s pollution index reached 155 on June 17, the
worst level since 1997 when it reached 226, according to the
Straits Times. The Malay Peninsula has been plagued for decades
by forest fires in Sumatra to the west and Kalimantan on Borneo
island to the east.  Singapore’s Minister for Environment and Water Resources
Vivian Balakrishnan also spoke with his counterpart Minister
Balthasar Kambuaya to share relevant information to improve
monitoring of hotspots and land clearing activities, the city-state’s government said.  ‘Illegal Burning’  The two ministers asked the Indonesian government to share
the names of the errant companies involved in “illegal burning,
though primary responsibility to take legal and enforcement
actions against these companies lies with  Indonesia  as they have
clearly violated Indonesian laws within Indonesian
jurisdiction,” the Singapore government said.  “Both Minister Shanmugam and Minister Balakrishnan
referred to the claim by an Indonesian forestry ministry
official in the media that Malaysian and Singapore palm oil
companies that had invested in Indonesia may be responsible for
starting the fires in Riau,” according to the statement.  Marty and Balthasar offered their reassurances that
Indonesia would address the haze problem, the Singapore
government said.  As many as 187 hotspots were detected over Sumatra the last
two days and the hazy conditions are expected to persist for the
next few days, according to the  National Environment Agency . The
pollution index reading fell to a “moderate” 78 as of 7 a.m.,
after reaching “unhealthy” 134 at 12 a.m., the agency said on
its website.  Cost of Haze  The fires hit a peak in 1997, when haze cost the economies
of Indonesia,  Malaysia  and Singapore an estimated $3.5 billion,
based on figures published in a report by the Center for
International Forestry Research in Bogor, Indonesia showed. The
current smog could hurt the city-state’s services industry,
according to Wai Ho Leong, an economist at Barclays Plc in
Singapore.  Large tracts of peat lands around the coastal city of Dumai
facing Singapore have caught fire, leading to the smog,
according to The Straits Times, which cited Indonesian
officials. Farmers are also burning plantations to clear land
for the next sowing season, the report said. Indonesia is the
world’s largest producer of palm oil.  Pasir Gudang in Malaysia’s Johor recorded a reading of 148,
according to the environment department’s 5 p.m. report
yesterday. Three of the four areas in Johor indicated levels
above 100.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  