-- SolarCity Seeks $201 Million in Debt as Musk Boosts Stake
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-06-18T18:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/solarcity-seeks-201-million-in-debt-sale-luring-cash-from-musk.html
  SolarCity Corp. (SCTY) , the owner of
rooftop solar plants that’s more than quadrupled in value since
its December initial public offering, is seeking to raise $201
million from investors as executives boost their stakes.  The company plans to offer $175 million of convertible
senior notes due in 2018, according to a statement today. If
underwriters led by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. exercise an over-allotment option, the offering may exceed $201 million.  SolarCity, based in  San Mateo ,  California , is also loaning
Goldman Sachs 2.8 million newly issued shares that some buyers
of the notes may use to hedge their purchases. The solar
company’s Chairman Elon Musk and Chief Executive Officer Lyndon Rive intend to purchase as many as 560,000 shares, a vote of
confidence, according to Pavel Molchanov, analyst at Raymond
James & Associates Inc.  “That’s always a good thing to see,” Molchanov said in an
interview today. “Investors love it.”  SolarCity is well-known in large part because of
billionaire Musk, who is also chairman and CEO of  Tesla Motors
Inc. (TSLA)  He increased his stake in the electric car company last
month through a similar transaction, Molchanov said.  “He’s putting his money where his mouth is,” he said.  The company said it expects to install about 270 megawatts
of solar systems this year, up from a May forecast of 250
megawatts.  Musk is SolarCity’s biggest shareholder, with about a 28
percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Rive
owns 3.63 percent stake as does his brother, SolarCity Chief
Technology Officer Peter Rive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  