-- Soros Alumnus Is Said to Join SAC as Asia Trading Co-Head
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-06-18T05:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/soros-alumnus-is-said-to-join-sac-as-asia-trading-co-head-1-.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP, the Steven
Cohen-led hedge-fund manager under an insider trading probe by
the U.S. government, hired former Soros Fund Management LLC
employee Adam Odorczuk to co-head Asia trading, said a person
with knowledge of the matter.  Odorczuk, who is based in Hong Kong, has been licensed as a
representative of the  Stamford , Connecticut-based hedge fund
manager from June 13, according to  information  posted on the
website of the city’s Securities and Exchange Commission.
Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC at Sard Verbinnen & Co.
in New York, declined to comment on Odorczuk’s hiring.  Cohen and five other senior SAC employees have been
subpoenaed to appear before a grand jury as part of a multiyear
U.S. probe into insider trading. SAC employees expected clients
to put in withdrawal notices for most of the $4 billion they
hadn’t marked for redemptions by early next year, people with
knowledge of the matter said earlier this month.  Odorczuk’s license as a representative of Soros’s family
office was removed earlier this month, SFC data showed.  The scrutiny on Cohen and his firm grew in November when
former portfolio manager Mathew Martoma was charged in what U.S.
prosecutors called the biggest insider-trading scheme in
history. It was the first time the SAC founder was directly
linked to trades that allegedly used inside information.  Remaining Open  SAC told employees that it planned to remain open to
outside investors after redemptions and it didn’t plan
significant staff reduction, two people with knowledge of the
matter said this month.  The firm oversaw $6 billion for outsiders at the start of
this year. Founder Cohen has about $7.5 billion in SAC’s funds
and employees account for $1.5 billion of assets, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It was once one of the best in the
industry, with returns averaging 25 percent since 1992.  SAC still has a stable capital base and has been performing
well this year, President Tom Conheeney wrote in a June 4 e-mail
to employees, according to the people.  Soros Fund Management, which oversaw $24 billion earlier
this year, returned client capital in 2011 to become a family
office. Odorczuk worked for Tudor Investment Corp. before
joining Soros Fund Management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  