-- South Korea Eases Crude Import Rules for Non-Middle East Supply
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2013-06-18T04:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/south-korea-eases-crude-import-rules-for-non-middle-east-supply.html
South Korean regulations aimed at
diversifying the nation’s crude supply will reduce freight costs
for cargoes shipped from non- Middle East  countries, including
those in the European Union.  The government cut the minimum amount required for a buyer
to claim the deduction of shipping charges for oil shipped from
non-Middle East regions to 2 million barrels a year from 7
million previously, effective June 1, according to a statement
posted on the energy ministry’s website and Kelvin Han, a
spokesman for state-run Korea National Oil Corp.  A South Korean buyer can take a refund of as much as 90
percent of the difference in freight between the Middle East and
more distant regions including America,  Africa  and  Europe ,
making longer-haul crude more economical. The freight-cost
deduction is taken out of the 16-won ($0.01) a liter levy on
crude imports.  Brent crude futures traded in  London  touched the highest
level in more than two months on June 14 after U.S. President
 Barack Obama  was said to have authorized arming Syrian rebel
groups, renewing concern that unrest in the country will spread
to other parts of the region. The contract for August was at
$105.57 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange today, up
5.2 percent this month.  Separately, South Korea amended rules that allowed refiners
a tax rebate on crude imports if they exported the refined
fuels. As of July 1, companies can no longer take this product-export deduction on duty-free imports from the European Union,
according to a trade ministry official who asked not to be
identified, citing internal policy.  North Sea  While this change closes the loophole that had allowed
buyers to claim the product-export rebate on tax-free crude, EU
imports will still be exempt from a 3 percent tariff as granted
under a Free Trade Agreement with  Korea , said the official. The
pact, which went in to effect July 2011, has resulted in an
unprecedented flow of oil from the  North Sea  toward Asia.  Vitol Group booked the very large crude carrier Maersk
Sandra to load Forties crude from Hound Point,  Scotland , this
month and ship it to Daesan, South Korea, according to ship-tracking data from IHS Inc. and shipbroker reports. It is the
fifth such cargo so far this year, compared with 12 over the
same period last year. A VLCC typically carries 2 million
barrels.  Middle East sources accounted for roughly 83 percent of
South Korea’s 2.5 million barrels a day of crude imports during
the first four months of this year, according to data from  Korea
National Oil Co.  Cargoes from the U.K. and Norway made up 4.8
percent, by comparison.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net ;
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  