-- Korea Won Falls Most in a Week Ahead of FOMC Meeting; Bonds Rise
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-06-18T07:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/south-korean-won-government-bonds-decline-ahead-of-fomc-meeting.html
South Korea’s won fell the most in a
week as investors assess the odds of a reduction in U.S.
economic stimulus before the Federal Reserve reviews policy.
 Government bonds  advanced.  Asia’s fourth-largest economy must boost its ability to
prevent and cope with any crisis stemming from policy changes in
the U.S. and other advanced economies, the  Bank of Korea  said in
a report submitted to parliament yesterday. The  Federal Open
Market Committee  begins its two-day policy meeting today, almost
a month after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said asset purchases
could be scaled back should the U.S. employment outlook show
“sustainable improvement.”  The won fell 0.4 percent to 1,130.96 per dollar in Seoul,
the biggest drop since June 11, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency touched 1,137.75 on June 11, the lowest
level since April 10. One-month implied volatility, a gauge of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell
six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 10.39 percent.  “The won fell on concern the Fed’s possible early exit
from its stimulus measures may prompt outflows from  emerging
markets ,” said Han Sung Min, a currency trader at Busan Bank in
Seoul. “The won’s fall may be limited as investors are in a
wait-and-see mode ahead of the FOMC meeting.”  Investors have been monitoring U.S. economic reports to
determine whether growth is strong enough to prompt the Fed to
rein in its program of buying $85 billion of debt a month. The
FOMC may add language in this week’s statement that details
timing and pace of tapering its stimulus measures,  Ward McCarthy 
and Thomas Simons, economists at Jefferies Group LLC, wrote in a
June 14 note to clients.  Amending Bills  South Korea plans to amend bills that may “excessively”
hamper business activities, Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said
in a meeting in Seoul today with the heads of the National Tax
Service, Fair Trade Commission and the Korea Customs Service.  Local producer prices fell 2.6 percent in May from a year
earlier, an eighth straight decline, as the costs of raw
materials such as crude oil dropped, Bank of Korea said in an e-mailed statement today.  The yield on the 2.75 percent sovereign bonds due March
2018 fell two basis points to 2.98 percent, prices from Korea
Exchange Inc. show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  