-- Sprint Sues Dish Seeking to Block Clearwire Acquisition
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-06-18T21:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/sprint-sues-dish-seeking-to-block-clearwire-acquisition.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. sued  Dish
Network Corp. (DISH)  to block a buyout of  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , a maneuver
intended to promote its sale to  Japan ’s  SoftBank Corp. (9984)  and repel
a higher bid from Dish.  The suit is the latest salvo in a battle of billionaires
pitting Charlie Ergen at Dish against Masayoshi Son of SoftBank,
Japan’s third biggest mobile phone company. Sprint agreed last
week to sell itself to SoftBank for $21.6 billion, spurning a
$25.5 billion bid by Dish that Sprint has called not
“actionable.”  Sprint and Dish are both trying to buy Bellevue,
Washington-based Clearwire and its wireless network to bolster
their ability to compete for U.S. mobile phone customers.
Sprint, the No. 3 U.S. wireless carrier which owns slightly more
than 50 percent of Clearwire, has offered $3.40 a share. Dish
topped Sprint’s offer last week, offering $4.40 a share for all
of Clearwire. Clearwire’s board has endorsed Dish’s bid.  “Sprint’s lawsuit is a transparent attempt to divert
attention from its failure to deal fairly with Clearwire’s
shareholders,” blocking them from getting a fair price for
their shares, Dish spokesman Bob Toevs said in a statement.
“Dish is confident that its superior offer will be upheld and
Clearwire shareholders will be free to realize the 29 percent
premium represented by the DISH offer.”  Dish’s Design  Sprint says Dish’s offer is designed to coerce Clearwire
shareholders into handing over their shares “or else be left
holding stock in a corporation that will be handicapped by
unlawful corporate governance restrictions, onerous debt
provisions and subject to massive monetary damages claims,”
according to the suit, filed yesterday in state court in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  The offer for Clearwire by Dish, the Englewood, Colorado-based satellite-TV provider controlled by Ergen, values all of
the shares in Clearwire, including a stake already held by
Overland Park, Kansas-based Sprint, at about $6.5 billion.  Sprint said in its Delaware Chancery court suit that Dish
executives were “successful in fooling Clearwire’s minority
shareholders into voting against” Sprint’s offer in hopes of
getting a higher price for their stock.  Mike DiGioia, a spokesman for Clearwire, said in an e-mail
that the company doesn’t comment on pending litigation as a
matter of policy.  Clearwire fell 1.5 percent to $4.56 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading today in New York. The shares have gained about 59
percent this year amid the bids and counterbids. Dish rose about
0.7 percent and Sprint gained about 1.4 percent.  Increased Bid  Sprint has been trying to buy the rest of Clearwire’s
shares since December. It boosted its offer last month to $3.40
a share to satisfy a bloc of investors who oppose the deal.
Sprint trails Verizon Wireless and  AT&T Inc. (T)  among U.S. wireless
carriers.  SoftBank’s $21.6 billion offer has the backing of Sprint’s
board and the wireless company’s second-largest investor,
Paulson & Co. Son is “determined to be No. 1 in the world very
soon in my industry,” he said in a speech last week. “You are
lucky not to be my competitor.”  Ergen, the chairman and co-founder of the satellite-TV
company, is angling for both Clearwire and Sprint as part of a
plan to expand into wireless services. Institutional Shareholder
Services Inc., the largest investor-advisory firm, has endorsed
Dish’s Clearwire bid, citing the “significantly higher” cash
amount and the board’s support for the offer.  Execute Plans  If Dish can buy the portion of Clearwire that Sprint
doesn’t own, it could force the carrier to reconsider whether
SoftBank is its best suitor, said Walt Piecyk, an analyst at
BTIG LLC. Without full control of Clearwire and its valuable
airwaves, Sprint won’t be able to execute on its plans for a
fourth-generation network, he said.  “Sprint without Clearwire is a company without spectrum to
do many of the 4G things they want to do,” said Piecyk, who is
based in New York.  Sprint contends Dish’s bid for Clearwire is flawed because
it depends on obtaining at least 25 percent of Clearwire’s
shares and would let the satellite company appoint at least
three directors to the board, according to court filings.  Handing over such governance rights to Dish would violate
Delaware corporate law, Sprint’s lawyers said in the lawsuit.  Dish’s bid also runs afoul of an equity holders’ agreement
forged in 2008 when Clearwire was created as a joint venture
between Sprint and other companies, Sprint’s attorneys said in
the suit. Accepting Dish’s offer would violate that accord, they
added.  The case is  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  v. Dish Network Corp.,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  