-- MStar Takeover Lures Traders to Asia Top Return: Real M&A
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-06-18T07:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/mstar-takeover-lures-traders-to-asia-top-return-real-m-a.html
Traders willing to bet that a pair
of  semiconductor companies  from  Taiwan  will get their
combination past authorities in  China  stand to reap the biggest
return in Asia.  Almost a year after  MediaTek Inc. (2454)  agreed to buy  MStar
Semiconductor Inc. (3697)  for $3.8 billion, the Hsinchu, Taiwan-based
companies are still waiting for approval from China’s antitrust
regulator and yesterday delayed the deal’s closing for a third
time. MStar now trades 15 percent below MediaTek’s stock-and-cash bid, the biggest discount of any pending deal in Asia
higher than $500 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While the combined company would control more than half of
the global market for chips used in televisions, regulators in
 South Korea  -- home to two of the world’s largest makers of  flat
panel televisions  -- approved the deal with certain conditions.
China’s Ministry of Commerce is likely to follow suit as
competition keeps prices from rising, said Kim Eng Securities
Ltd. China has barred only one proposal in the five years since
it adopted new anti-monopoly laws and instead may insist on
discounts on some products to appease Chinese TV manufacturers,
said Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “The deal will be approved,” said Mark Li, a
semiconductor industry analyst at Bernstein in  Hong Kong . “It
is actually better for China to get concessions from MediaTek
and MStar, instead of an outright disapproval.”  Opaque Process  MediaTek announced the acquisition on June 22 of last year,
saying it planned first to buy 48 percent of MStar -- a stage
that has been completed -- followed by a full takeover.  While it initially said the deal would close by January,
that deadline has been extended three times as the companies
await approval from China’s antitrust regulator. Saying the
application is still in progress in China, the companies
yesterday extended the closing date to Nov. 1 from Aug. 1.  MStar rose  1.3 percent  at NT$239.5 today, reversing an
earlier decline of as much as 3.8 percent after the delay was
announced. MediaTek advanced 0.4 percent to NT$355.5.  Under anti-monopoly laws enacted in 2008, China requires
any global transaction that will influence domestic markets to
be approved by the  commerce ministry . Delays are common when a
deal affects state-owned enterprises or an industry that’s
important to the country’s economy, said Andrew Foster, a
Beijing-based lawyer at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
LLP.  Shaken Confidence  “They are not looking to prohibit international
transactions but are very interested in the impact of those
transactions on China, on Chinese consumers and on Chinese
industrial policy,” he said in a phone interview. “It’s a very
opaque and confidential process.”  Yesterday, before the timeline was further extended, MStar
shares closed at NT$236.5, compared with the NT$282.08-per-share
value of MediaTek’s cash-and-stock bid. That offered
shareholders a 19 percent return if the deal closes, more than
any other pending offer in  Asia  valued at more than $500
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  If the deal closes by the new Nov. 1 deadline, traders who
bought MStar shares at yesterday’s closing price still would
reap an annualized return of about 52 percent, based on the
value of the bid yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Blocking Coke  MediaTek Chief Financial Officer David Ku declined to
comment on whether the company has been asked to offer the
Chinese regulator concessions in order to get approval. MStar is
still in discussions with Mofcom, and declined to say what phase
of the approval process the application is currently in.  Shen Danyang, a spokesman for the commerce ministry, said
he had no information to release about the deal.  Since China’s anti-monopoly law was introduced, Mofcom has
blocked only one takeover: Coca-Cola Co.’s $2.3 billion bid for
China Huiyuan Juice Group Ltd. in 2009. As of the end of
September 2012, the ministry had handled 474 cases, according to
its website.  MediaTek, which may wind up with as much as 80 percent of
the Chinese market for chips used in TVs once the deal closes,
is facing resistance from Chinese TV manufacturers, Li at
Bernstein wrote in an e-mail before the Nov. 1 extension was
announced. To gain China’s approval, it may need to offer
discounts on certain chips or sell competing products so Chinese
TV makers are given a choice, he said.  ‘Corrective Measures’  “If the Korean regulator has no issue, then I don’t see
why the Chinese will,” Warren Lau, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Kim Eng, said in a phone interview. “Just like the Korean
regulators, they will be closely monitoring the pricing front.
But prices mostly will continue to be on the downward trend --
you can hardly find any tech product where the price goes up.”  The Korea Fair Trade Commission approved the deal on March
18, imposing “corrective measures,” including demands on price
reductions to certain products. The combined company would have
a 57 percent share of the global market, the regulator said  Mofcom has given 18 conditional clearances to deals since
2008, and in recent years has appeared more willing to impose
remedies such as pricing restrictions, or insist that the
companies keep their branding, marketing or other operations
separate, said Mark Jephcott, the Hong Kong-based head of Asia
competition law at Herbert Smith Freehills LLP.  Glencore, Xstrata  In the case of commodities trader Glencore Plc’s
acquisition of rival Xstrata Plc, China vetted the deal for 13
months before requiring Glencore to divest a  copper mine  in
 Peru , among other conditions.  “With relatively high market share expected in China,
regulators do get nervous,” Jephcott said. “It’s fairly likely
there are remedy discussions going on.”  Still, not everyone is confident the deal will be approved.
MediaTek may have to settle for the 48 percent of MStar that it
already owns, said Chelsey Su, an analyst at Masterlink
Securities Corp. in Taipei.  “It’s very difficult to accomplish this deal,” she said
in a phone interview before the extension was announced
yesterday. “If it can’t be accomplished before August, then I
don’t think three years later it can be accomplished.”  Working to the deal’s advantage is the fact that
semiconductor prices continue to fall, while MediaTek and MStar
face competition from companies including Taiwan’s  Novatek
Microelectronics Corp. (3034) , Kim Eng’s Lau said. At the same time,
customers are getting more powerful, he said.  Decision Timeline  “Suppliers of TV chip sets are consolidating, but their
customers -- the TV vendors -- are also consolidating, so the
playing fields are actually quite even,” Lau said.  The regulator’s own guidelines mean it may not have to
reach a decision for months. The review of a deal can take up to
180 days after the ministry deems the application ready for
submission, a separate process that could take several weeks. If
a transaction isn’t approved in the first 30 days, the regulator
can extend the process for another 90, and then a further 60
days before a decision must be made to approve, approve with
conditions, or prohibit the deal.  The clock on MediaTek’s latest application may have begun
in early March, according to both Jephcott at Herbert Smith
Freehills and Foster at  Skadden Arps , neither of whom are
involved with the filing. That would give Mofcom until September
to make a decision, under its own guidelines.  The deal is likely to close by the fourth quarter, said Kim
Eng’s Lau.  “The acquisition is quite likely to be approved by the
Chinese regulators, subject to several conditions,” he said.
“This is a TV market. It’s not something that has anything to
do with national security.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debra Mao in Taipei at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  