-- STX Pan Ocean Falls as Receivership Filing Accepted: Seoul Mover
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-06-18T10:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/stx-pan-ocean-falls-as-receivership-filing-accepted-seoul-mover.html
STX Pan Ocean Co. (028670) ,  South Korea ’s
biggest commodities carrier, fell to a record low in  Seoul 
trading after a court accepted its filing to seek protection.  Pan Ocean  fell  by its daily 15 percent limit to close at
2,185 won, the lowest price since it debuted on the Korea
Exchange September 2007. Trading in the  shares  had been halted
since June 6, and the company filed for court receivership the
next day. Shares in  Singapore  slumped 46 percent.  The court acceptance means investors will see their
shareholding written down and creditors will swap debt for
equity as part of any restructuring plan, said Cho Byoung Hee,
an analyst at Kiwoom Securities Co. in Seoul. The shipping
company sought court receivership after  Korea Development Bank ,
the main creditor and Pan Ocean’s second-biggest  shareholder ,
decided against buying the company from debt-ridden STX Group.  “This is only the start of more pain for Pan Ocean and
other units of STX Group,” said Cho. “It’s important that
court filing and other measures that will follow are done
quickly to minimize the impact on Pan Ocean’s business.”  STX Group -- with businesses ranging from shipbuilding to
components that go into vessels -- is the  largest shareholder  of
Seoul-based Pan Ocean. The parent has been trying to raise 2.5
trillion won ($2.2 billion) by selling stakes in units as a
slump in bulk  shipping rates  caused ship orders to tumble.  Korea Development Bank, which was considering buying Pan
Ocean through its private-equity arm, decided against using that
route after evaluating the shipping company, the lender’s
Executive Director Ryu Heui Kyoung said on June 7.  Baltic Rates  Pan Ocean currently has about 300 vessels, including 97 it
owns. About a third of those ships are operated under long-term
contracts with companies such as  Brazil ’s Vale SA and South
Korea’s Posco.  The  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , a global measure of commodity-shipping rates, has fallen more than 90 percent from its peak
five years ago because of excess capacity, according to the
 Baltic Exchange .  Since the credit crisis, orders to build new ships have
plunged. Contracts for new vessels halved to $84.7 billion last
year, compared with $174.7 billion in 2008, according to
 Clarkson Plc , the world’s biggest shipbroker.  Pan Ocean had 4.5 trillion won of loans, ship financing and
other debt, according to Korea Development Bank. It had  cash and
near cash  of 173 billion won at the end of March, compared with
287.8 billion won at the end of last year and 501 billion won in
2011, according to its financial statements.  Life Savings  STX Group was founded in 2001 by Kang Duk Soo, who used
life savings from a 27-year career at another South Korean
conglomerate, or chaebol, Ssangyong Group, to build a business
group spanning the manufacture of  cruise ships ,  wind turbines 
and apartment blocks.  The group was built partly by buying financially struggling
companies. In 2001, Kang bought Daedong Shipbuilding Co., then-South Korea’s eighth-largest shipbuilder, which had just exited
court protection, and renamed it STX Offshore. Kang bought Pan
Ocean three years later while it was in  bankruptcy protection .  STX Offshore & Shipbuilding Co. (067250) , a unit of STX Group and
the third-biggest shareholder of Pan Ocean, and two other group
companies earlier this year voluntarily sought debt rescheduling
with their creditors.  STX Group has said it will focus on its shipbuilding
business. Korea Development Bank will put together a
restructuring plan for STX Offshore this month based on a due
diligence of the company, Ryu said June 7.  STX Offshore jumped 11 percent as creditors may help revive
the company after a due diligence found it to be viable, Korea
Economic Daily said citing unidentified officials in the
financial industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore (STX)  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  