-- Sudden Stock Crashes Usually Caused by Human Error, SEC Says
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-06-18T22:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/sudden-stock-crashes-mostly-show-human-error-sec-s-berman-says.html
Concern that American stock markets
have become more susceptible to split-second crashes due to
computerization isn’t supported by the data, a Securities and
Exchange Commission official said.  Most “mini-flash crashes,” a term sometimes applied when
an individual U.S. stock briefly surges or plunges for no
obvious reason, are the result of human errors, not broken
software, said Gregg Berman, head of the SEC’s Office of
Analytics and Research.  Scrutiny of market disruptions increased in the wake of
malfunctions including the flash crash of May 2010, when the Dow
Jones Industrial Average fell almost 1,000 points in minutes
before rebounding. In September, the Senate Subcommittee on
Securities, Insurance and Investment held hearings on the impact
of computerized trading amid concern algorithmic and high-frequency strategies are contributing to investor uncertainty.  “A popular meme has emerged that, taken collectively,
sudden price spikes indicate a broken market” and may be
harbingers of another crash like the one in 2010, Berman said in
New York today at a conference sponsored by the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association. Critics who blame
everything on electronic trading “may be looking in the wrong
place,” he said.  Princeton Physicist  SEC staff found that swings in individual stocks are more
often caused by human mistakes such as “fat finger” trades --
when a person enters the wrong number of shares to trade or some
other typographical error -- or incorrectly entered limit
orders, Berman said. While the errors reflect sloppiness and
highlight a lack of checks, they can be fixed by better risk
management and oversight, he said.  Berman, who trained as a physicist at Princeton University,
was appointed to his SEC post in January. He  joined  the agency
in 2009 from RiskMetrics Group and led the development of Midas,
the SEC’s system for examining the U.S. stock market.  Sudden stock swings have spurred fluctuations in the paper
value of some of America’s biggest companies. On May 17, shares
of  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , which had a market value of $45
billion at the time, briefly plunged 99 percent in the final
minute of trading. Most of the transactions were later voided.  A week later,  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  let stand trades that sent
 American Electric Power Co. (AEP)  and  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE)  down at
least 54 percent, while labeling them “aberrant” and excluding
them from records showing the stocks’ lows of the day.  Bigger Moves  While crashes may be started by humans, today’s market
structure means mistakes are more likely to snowball rapidly,
said Sal Arnuk, a partner at Themis Trading LLC and a frequent
critic of the way markets have evolved.  “I would ask Mr. Berman, how can you explain or justify
that a large-cap or very liquid stock, when there is a fat-finger trade, sees the market widen out as much as it does,”
Arnuk said in a telephone interview. The current structure of
markets “is set up to extract the most amount of pain from any
mistake.”  A study published by Credit Suisse Group AG on Jan. 17
found that few sudden swings are directly attributable to
computer errors.  Ana Avramovic, an analyst at Credit Suisse Trading
Strategy, examined mandatory halts prompted by volatility in
individual stocks between June 2010 through December 2012. After
excluding “extremely illiquid or cheap stocks,” she found that
85 percent were caused by news and 9 percent by human error.  Latency Arbitrage  Only 6 percent -- or 21 instances in 31 months -- were
caused by a bad print, when a quote at an extreme price caused a
halt, suggesting a computer algorithm was responsible.  Recent research from the University of  Michigan  explored
another point of contention regarding high-frequency trading:
whether investors generally benefit from the practice.  The  report  found that while a technique known as latency
arbitrage -- in which traders exploit delays in sending market
data among the 13 exchanges and about 40 alternative venues in
the U.S. -- enriches some firms, overall market efficiency is
harmed “with no countervailing benefit in liquidity or any
other measured market performance characteristic.”  Berman said today that while the SEC continues to study
computer trading, other measures should limit human mistakes. He
highlighted the  proposed  Regulation Systems Compliance and
Integrity, which seeks to limit technology breakdowns at venues
handling stocks, options and bond trades and ensure they can
withstand malfunctions that could jeopardize markets.  Risk Checks  Another initiative, the market-access rule adopted in 2010,
requires risk checks on any order sent for execution. The two
together are a message to market participants and venues to
improve, Berman said.  In remarks to the Sifma audience, Berman also questioned
critics who suggest computers have made buying and selling
stocks too fast for the good of the market. He said the SEC’s
analysis will look at the speed of trades, and he will reserve
judgment until it’s complete.  “I’m not sure why, absent other facts, it should be a
concern that trading take place faster than a blink of an eye,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in New York at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  