-- Sumatra Forest Fires Cause Worst Singapore Smog for 16 Years
-- B y   J a s m i n e   N g
-- 2013-06-18T11:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/sumatra-fires-cause-worst-singapore-smog-for-16-years.html
Forest fires on the Indonesian
island of Sumatra shrouded Singapore and  Malaysia  in smog for a
fifth day, leading to an advisory asking people to stay indoors.  Singapore’s National Environment Agency said its pollution
index eased to a “moderate” 82 by 6 p.m., after rising to an
“unhealthy” 152 late on Monday, which was the worst level
since 1997, according to The  Straits Times  newspaper. The
reading for smaller PM2.5 particulates, linked to lung diseases,
stayed above 149 micrograms per cubic meter, compared to a U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency safe standard of 12.  Malaysia’s Johor state registered readings above 100 on the
country’s pollutant index at 5 p.m., according to the country’s
Department of Environment. The Malay Peninsula has been plagued
for decades by forest fires in Sumatra to the West and
Kalimantan on Borneo island to the East.  “Reduce outdoor activity and drink a lot of water during
this period,” Malaysia’s Prime Minister Najib Razak said in a
Facebook post today, adding that the haze is expected to worsen
in coming days.  The annual fires hit a peak in 1997, when the haze cost the
economies of  Indonesia , Malaysia and Singapore an estimated $3.5
billion, figures published by the Center for International
Forestry Research in Bogor, Indonesia showed. The current smog
could hurt the city-state’s services industry, according to Wai
Ho Leong, an economist at Barclays Plc in Singapore.  Palm Plantations  Large tracts of peat lands around the coastal city of Dumai
facing Singapore have caught fire, leading to the smog,
according to The Straits Times, which cited Indonesian
officials. Farmers are also burning plantations to clear land
for the next sowing season, the report said. Indonesia is the
world’s largest producer of  palm oil .  “For too long, commercial interests in Indonesia have been
allowed to over-ride environmental concerns,”  Singapore’s
Environment and Water Resources Minister Vivian Balakrishnan,
said in a Facebook post yesterday.  In a separate post today, Balakrishnan asked Indonesia’s
Minister of Environment Balthasar Kambuaya to name the companies
responsible for the fires and to publish maps of land ownership.
“The combination of satellite photos, which are updated daily,
and these concession maps would enable us to pinpoint the errant
companies,” he added.  Singapore’s manpower ministry yesterday issued an advisory
urging employers to minimize strenuous work outdoors.  At least 138 hot spots were detected over Sumatra, with
hazy conditions expected to persist for the next few days, the
NEA said yesterday. The fires typically occur during a dry
season for the region from June to September, it said.  Pasir Gudang in Malaysia’s Johor recorded the highest
reading of 148, according to the environment department’s 5 p.m.
report today. Three of the four areas in Johor indicated levels
above 100.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Ng in  Singapore  at 
 jng281@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  