-- SunOpta Seen Gaining as Shoppers Go Organic
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-06-18T20:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/sunopta-seen-gaining-as-shoppers-go-organic.html
SunOpta Inc. (SOY) , the Canadian food
manufacturer that processes more organic soybeans in the U.S.
than any other company, is poised to increase investor returns
as consumers buy more non-genetically modified and organic
foods.  SunOpta has surged 46 percent this year, the best return
among six food-processing stocks in  Canada  and almost four times
the 10-percent average. Analysts covering Brampton, Ontario-based SunOpta expect the shares to gain 2.9 percent over the
next 12 months, according to ratings compiled by Bloomberg.  “SunOpta is almost entirely focused on natural and organic
foods and there are no direct comparable competitors,” said
Peter Prattas, a Toronto-based analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald LP
who recommends investors buy the shares. “The ongoing trend is
that people want to eat healthy food and that segment is growing
much faster than the broader food market.”  Food labeled organic is about $30 billion or about 10
percent of the $400 billion North American food retail market,
and is growing “in the teens,” Kenneth Shea, a food and
beverage analyst at Bloomberg Industries said in a phone
interview yesterday. “Virtually all supermarkets are dedicating
more and more shelf space to organics. That’s gradually bringing
organic products to a wider group of consumers.”  SunOpta, which posted record profit of C$24.2 million
($23.8 million) on revenue of C$1.1 billion  last year , is the
world’s largest producer of oat fiber for the  food industry , the
largest producer of private label natural and organic fruit
snacks as well as the leading U.S. organic soybean processor,
according to its website.  Packaged Food  The company is considering growing faster through
acquisitions as it moves toward producing more packaged goods
from raw materials and distribution, according to an investor
presentation on its website. SunOpta has made four  purchases 
over the past three years and plans to sell stakes in businesses
unrelated to its main operations, the presentation said.  Chief Executive Officer Steven Bromley declined requests
for an interview, through company spokeswoman Susan Wiekenkamp.  “We believe that 2013 will be another successful year for
our company as we continue to execute on our core strategies of
growing our value-added packaged foods and ingredients
portfolio,” CEO Bromley said in a May 7 statement when the
company reported first-quarter results. “We believe SunOpta is
well positioned to capitalize on future growth opportunities as
consumers around the world are increasingly focused on healthy
eating and healthy living.”  Acquisition Potential  Management is aware of the acquisition opportunities out
there, said Sheila Broughton, an analyst at PI Financial Corp.
in  Vancouver , who rates the shares “buy” with a target price
of $9.41. “Their performance is a reflection of a healthier
consumer eating bias. SunOpta is also adding capacity in an
orderly strategy, adding a line when demand is there.”  The company has seven buy ratings, two holds and one sell,
according to analyst ratings compiled by Bloomberg. The average
 price target  is C$8.41 over the next 12 months, indicating a
potential return of 2.9 percent from SunOpta’s closing share
price of C$8.17 in Toronto today.  West Face  “We’re very pleased with the company’s execution and
share-price performance,” said Greg Boland, chief executive
officer and founder of activist fund West Face Capital Inc. in
Toronto. The firm is the largest shareholder of SunOpta with a
12 percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  West Face first began investing in SunOpta in mid-2011,
Boland said. One of the fund’s founders, Peter Fraser, joined
the board in June 2012. West Face also owns about 11 percent of
meat processor  Maple Leaf Foods Inc. (MFI)   Boland declined to comment on whether the firm plans to
either increase or decrease its holdings in SunOpta.  SunOpta’s net income  will rise  17 percent to $28.2 million
this year, according to the estimates of five analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  “SunOpta’s strategy is to expand its value-added and
higher-margin consumer packaging and ingredient processing
capabilities,” said PI Financial’s Broughton, in a note to
investors on May 8. The company is introducing new products
including re-sealable pouches in 2013 which “offer the best
opportunities for long-term revenue and profitability growth.”  Health Benefits  SunOpta is the only Canadian manufacturer in a group of 12
companies identified by Shea and colleagues as the largest
companies whose sales consist mostly of packaged foods
emphasizing fresh or organic ingredients or promoting health
benefits such as gluten-free.  The company’s 2013 price-to-earnings ratio is the third-lowest in the group at 18.8 times, trailing Chiquita Brands
International Inc. and Fresh Del Monte Produce Inc. which offer
lower valuations for earnings growth, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The organic food market is “huge” and growing at five
times the pace of the overall market as consumers seek healthier
options, said Walter Robb, co-chief executive officer of  Whole
Foods Market Inc. (WFM) , the largest natural-goods grocer in the U.S.,
in an April 29 interview with Bloomberg TV. At the same time,
regulators are beginning to demand labeling of genetically
modified organisms, including Connecticut legislators who passed
a bill earlier this month requiring such labeling if nearby
states adopt it.  Genetically Modified  Genetically altered  Monsanto Co. (MON)  wheat was found in an
Oregon field in April, almost a decade after the company
abandoned plans to sell the herbicide-resistant wheat variety.
Farmers growing genetically-modified crops face export
restrictions, while scientists warn that such incidents are
likely to persist, given weak federal rules and the strength of
natural selection.  Catalysts that could boost the organic sector further
include more “clarity” from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration regarding the benefits of organic food, Shea at
Bloomberg Industries said. “Those will take time to come out,
but could help the sector reach a mass audience,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  