-- Suntech Rises on Moratorium as Spreadtrum Gains
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-06-18T21:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/suntech-rises-on-moratorium-as-web-retailers-gain.html
Chinese equities advanced in New
York as  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  climbed after a moratorium on
claims from creditors was extended in Europe while online
retailers rallied on an improving outlook for second-half sales.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. rose 0.5 percent to a one-week high
of 88.50 yesterday. Suntech, whose China unit was forced into
bankruptcy in March after defaulting on a bond payment, climbed
to the highest close this month.  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) 
gained for a fifth day while  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) 
reached the highest price in 13 months.  Suntech, once the world’s largest solar-panel maker, said
its European unit has been granted a “definitive” six-month
moratorium on debt repayment from judicial authorities in
Switzerland. Premier  Li Keqiang  said China’s growth rate is in a
“reasonable” range, China’s Central Television reported
yesterday, while a Commerce Ministry spokesman said retail sales
will improve in the second half after signs of recovery.  “Suntech equity at this point is an option if you believe
the company will be able to effectively restructure in
bankruptcy proceedings,” Chris Kettenman, Chief Energy
Strategist at Prime Executions Inc. in New York, said by phone.
“The Chinese government and banking parties have already made a
clear investment in the space. It makes sense that the current
government would want to offer support and encourage banks to be
flexible in lending policies.”  Moratorium Extension  The iShares FTSE  China  25 Index Fund, the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., climbed 0.2 percent to $34.56
in a second day of advances. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
gained 0.8 percent to 1,651.81, the highest level this month, as
investors awaited the outcome of a Federal Reserve policy
meeting for clues to the central bank’s stimulus plans.  Suntech’s American depositary receipts jumped 5 percent to
$1.05, the highest close since May 30.  The six-month moratorium granted in Shaffhausen,
Switzerland to Suntech’s European unit may be extended again,
the Wuxi-based company said yesterday. Suntech was given a two-month provisional moratorium in Europe on April 9.  Spreadtrum, a Shanghai-based mobile-chip designer, soared
4.8 percent to $22.98, the highest level since October.  Credit Suisse Group AG analyst Randy Abrams raised
Spreadtrum’s earnings and sales  estimates  for the second quarter
in a note June 17, after the company boosted its revenue
 forecasts  last week. Abrams maintained an outperform rating,
equivalent to buy, and a price target of $27.  Consumer Confidence  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS) , an online fashion retailer based in
 Guangzhou , advanced 1.5 percent to a three-day high of $32.99.
E-Commerce, a Beijing-based online retailer known as Dangdang,
climbed 1.1 percent in its fourth day of gains to $8.17, the
highest price since May 2012.  China’s  consumer confidence  is recovering and retail sales
will show improvement in the second half, Commerce Ministry
spokesman Shen Danyang said yesterday in Beijing.  ADRs of  PetroChina Co. (PTR) , the nation’s largest oil producer,
gained 1.1 percent to $110.70. The stock’s rating was raised to
buy from neutral by Ji-Asia Research Ltd. yesterday.  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd., a casino operator in Macau,
increased 2 percent in its fourth day of gains to a record high
of $25.13.  Hotels guests in Macau rose 17 percent in April from a year
earlier, which helped business in casinos, according to a report
by Bloomberg Industries.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index in  Hong Kong  slipped
0.1 percent to 9,733.54, extending its retreat this month to 8.2
percent. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.1 percent to
2,159.29, taking its loss to 6.1 percent this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  