-- Supreme Court Ties Up Arizona Voters in Red Tape
-- B y   A n t h o n y   T .   C a s o
-- 2013-06-18T14:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/supreme-court-ties-up-arizona-voters-in-red-tape.html
The U.S. Supreme Court took the easy
step when it  ruled  yesterday that the state of Arizona must
“accept and use” the form prepared by the federal Election
Assistance Commission to register voters.  The harder question is just what “accept and use” means.
Arizona was perfectly willing to accept the mandatory federal
form for voter registration. It just wanted proof of
citizenship, as well. Can a state require you to prove that you
are eligible to vote, that you meet the state voter-qualification requirements?  One analogy discussed by both the majority and dissenters
on the  Supreme Court  was that stores often “accept and use”
credit cards for payment, but may also require some proof that
it is your credit card. We are all familiar with these
requirements. When you go to the airport, it isn’t enough to
show your boarding pass. You must also show a government-issued
picture identification to prove that it is your boarding pass.
Your bank requires proof of identity when you want to gain
access to your account, even if you have your checkbook or
account number.  Banks, merchants, airlines -- all “accept and use”
different types of documents and require proof of identity.  In a world-class blunder, however, the majority of the
Supreme Court rejected our ordinary, everyday understanding of
these words. In  Arizona v. Inter Tribal Council of Arizona , it
ruled instead that federal law prohibited  Arizona  from requiring
anything other than the federal voter-registration form.  Prohibiting Enforcement  To reach this conclusion, the court ignored the
Constitution, which gives Congress the power to regulate the
“time, place, and manner of elections,” and only the states
the power to regulate voter qualifications.  In deciding that Congress probably intended its voter-registration law to prohibit Arizona from requiring additional
information, the Supreme Court  seems  to be saying that Congress
meant to prohibit states from enforcing state voter-qualification rules. Yet the court recognized that Congress has
no such power.  The solution, according to the 7-2 majority, is for Arizona
to apply to the Election Assistance Commission to alter the
federal form so that it includes Arizona’s proof-of-citizenship
requirement. Indeed, the court  suggests  that this federal
commission is probably required to grant such a request by
Arizona.  There is only one obstacle: This commission currently has
no members and is therefore legally incapable of acting on
Arizona’s request. In a footnote, the court said that Arizona
could always sue the commission for failure to act on its
application to amend the voter-registration form. The court also
acknowledged, however, that it may not have the power to order a
commission that has no commissioners to take action.  This  ruling  creates a perfect ball of bureaucratic red
tape. Let’s get this straight: Sure, Arizona has the exclusive
institutional power to set qualifications for voters, but it
must first ask permission of a nonexistent commission which
legally can’t take any action. Then Arizona must jump through
the hoop of suing the commission for failing to take the action
that the law prohibits it from taking. The federal court,
however, may have no power to order the commission to act
because the commission can’t act without commissioners.  The Supreme Court could have avoided this meaningless paper
shuffling with a common-sense interpretation of the federal
statute, one that follows the simple “accept and use”
transaction policies of banks, stores and airlines, which
require proof of identity.  Arizona’s voter-registration law was no different. Yet now
the state must endure years of red tape, litigation -- and the
prospect of noncitizens voting in state and federal elections.  (Anthony T. Caso is associate clinical professor at the
Chapman University School of Law in  California . He represented
the Center for Constitutional Jurisprudence as amicus in support
of Arizona in Arizona v. Inter Tribal Council of Arizona.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Anthony T. Caso at  caso@chapman.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 