-- Sweden Increases Nordea Share Sales Size on Strong Demand
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-06-19T13:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/sweden-to-cut-nordea-stake-to-7-8-to-reduce-national-debt.html
Sweden sold 260 million shares in
 Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  for 19.5 billion kronor ($3.03 billion) to reduce
public debt after boosting the size of its divestment in the
Nordic region’s largest lender because of strong demand.  The government cut its stake in the Stockholm-based bank to
7 percent from 13.4 percent, after it sold 20 million more
shares than it had planned yesterday, according to a statement.
The final price was 75 kronor apiece, at the low end of an
original range of 75 kronor to 76 kronor.  “Our role is not as an owner of banks,” Financial Markets
Minister Peter Norman said at a press conference in Stockholm.
Bank stocks are “risky” and “we should not expose the Swedish
citizens and Swedish taxpayers to unnecessary risks.”  Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt ’s government earmarked
Nordea for sale after coming to power in 2006 as part of a
strategy to sell state holdings including the largest phone
company,  TeliaSonera AB. (TLSN)  It cut its Nordea stake from 19.8
percent in February 2011 after selling shares at 74.5 kronor.  The government will put more than half of the proceeds from
today’s sale in its bank stability fund, while the rest will be
used to cut debt, the National Debt Office said. The fund, set
up during the financial crisis, is financed by the banks and
will be used as a backstop in the event of a financial crisis.  Bill Sales  Proceeds from the Nordea sale “will, in the near term, be
handled in liquidity management and by lower volumes in treasury
bills,” the debt office said. “The debt office will gradually
use the income to repay maturing loans” as “supply of
 government bonds  continues to be stable,” it said.  Nordea’s shares had jumped 27 percent this year as of
yesterday. They reached a five-year high of 83.8 kronor on May
22, fueling speculation of a share sale. The stock fell 4.4
percent to 75.3 kronor as of 3:19 p.m. in the Swedish capital.  Morgan Stanley was global coordinator and joint bookrunner
of the sale with Credit Suisse Group AG and SEB AB. Carnegie was
co-lead manager. Sweden has agreed not to sell any additional
Nordea shares for 90 days.  State ownership of Nordea traces its roots to the nation’s
banking crisis in the early 1990s, when predecessor Nordbanken
was nationalized after loan losses wiped out its equity.
Nordbanken was later  merged with Nordic lenders  such as
 Finland ’s Merita Bank to create Nordea. Its largest  shareholder 
is Finland’s  Sampo (SAMAS)  Oyj, which owns the biggest Nordic non-life
insurer If, with a 21.4 percent holding.  Cutting Debt  Since coming to power, the government has cut public debt
to 38.1 percent of gross domestic product at the end of last
year, helped by the sale of Absolut vodka maker Vin & Sprit AB,
real estate company Vasakronan and stakes in stock-market
operator OMX AB and TeliaSonera. The National Financial
Management Authority forecast on June 17 that public debt will
rise to 42.1 percent of GDP this year before gradually falling
to 33.3 percent by the end of 2017.  Sweden’s government is pushing through some of the world’s
strictest bank capital requirements to make them more resilient
in a crisis. It last month decided to raise banks’ risk-weights
on mortgages to tame record-high Swedish  household debt .  “We should be a thumb in the eyes if the banks. We should
regulate it hard,” Norman said at the press conference.
“That’s what we’ll do also in the future.”  Asset Sales  Sweden’s debt office did not include any proceeds from
asset sales when it yesterday forecast that state net borrowing
will increase to 183 billion kronor this year, from 25 billion
kronor last year, before falling to 65 billion kronor in 2014.
The government in April forecast it will post budget deficits
this year and in 2014 as the economy struggles amid a recession
in the euro area.  Sweden “will maintain the auction volume of government
bonds at 3.5 billion kronor in 2014,” the debt office said in a
statement today. Yesterday it forecast that the volume would
rise to 4 billion kronor next year.  “Borrowing in foreign currency will decrease,” the debt
office said. “The revenue from the sales transactions will
reduce the funding requirement and the national debt.”  Shares owned directly by state and the Swedish stability
fund were sold on a pro rata basis, the government said today.
Mannheimer Swartling was the government’s legal adviser on the
sale while Morgan Stanley provided financial advice.  “The state through this transaction has committed to not
sell more during a 90-day period and when that’s over we will
have to, once again, as we always do, try the circumstances to
see if we should continue” Norman said. “We have no finished
plan for that today.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in  Stockholm  at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  