-- U.S. Charges Loom for Swiss Banks as Chamber Rejects Bill
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-06-18T18:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/swiss-lower-house-votes-against-debating-u-s-untaxed-assets-law.html
Swiss banks face the risk of further
indictments for helping U.S. citizens evade taxes after Swiss
lawmakers rejected a bill that would help resolve a tax dispute.  Unless legislators change their mind in a second vote later
this week, there is a “real risk of escalation” from the U.S.
side, Swiss Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf told
parliament today. The Swiss government announced a July 1
deadline for the bill to take effect.  Switzerland wants to prevent the indictment of another
Swiss bank. Wegelin & Co. was indicted last year and pleaded
guilty in January to helping U.S. taxpayers hide assets from the
Internal Revenue Service. The bank had taken over clients from
 UBS AG (UBSN) , which avoided prosecution in 2009 by admitting it aided
tax evasion, paying $780 million and handing over client names.  “There’s a real risk of further banks being targeted,”
Widmer-Schlumpf said in parliament in Bern today, warning of the
consequences of a rejection. “Any bank with U.S. clients or
which broke U.S. law could be affected.”  Department of Justice spokeswoman Dena Iverson declined to
comment.  ‘No Chance’  After almost three hours of deliberations, lawmakers in the
lower house voted 126 to 67 against discussing the draft law,
following recommendations of the economics committee. The
proposal has proved controversial among parliamentarians, who
called it a “black box,” because its terms were held secret.  Tomorrow morning, the upper house will vote on the proposal
for a second time after passing it last week. If that chamber
approves it again, the bill returns to the lower house for
another vote tomorrow afternoon, according to the parliament’s
services office. Should the lower house come to the same verdict
as today, the law fails.  “At the moment I see no chance the lower house will
approve the bill,” said Thomas Widmer, a political scientist at
the University of Zurich.  The Swiss government proposed the bill three weeks ago in a
bid to solve a long-running disagreement with the U.S. over
Swiss banks that allegedly helped U.S. tax evaders. The
government wants it to come into effect in July, though
parliamentarians have voiced skepticism about the measure,
saying its terms were set out by the U.S. and still remain
secret.  ‘Blank Check’  “I have a deep sense of unease about the law before us,”
Jacques-Andre Maire, a lawmaker for the Social Democrats SP,
said during the debate. “We’re being asked to sign a blank
check for banks’ misdeeds.”  Still, parliamentarians have changed their vote in the
past. In 2010, the UBS tax treaty for resolving a tax-evasion
dispute between the U.S. and Switzerland’s biggest bank was
approved by lawmakers in its three-week June session after
initially being rejected by the lower house.  “More than a whole party will need to change course, and I
think that’s difficult,” said Andreas Ladner, a professor of
public administration at the University of Lausanne. “One is
within the realm of speculation. Possibly there could be an
indictment.”  Four Groups  The bill, which the country’s banks support, divides
institutions into four categories based on the size of their
American business and allows them to cooperate with the U.S. and
hand over some information -- though not client names. Banks
would have 120 days to decide whether to participate and to
announce into which category they fall. They then have another
120 days to individually negotiate with the U.S. Department of
Justice.  The program does not include at least 12 financial
institutions, among them  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Julius Baer
Group Ltd. (BAER)  and the state-backed Zuercher Kantonalbank and  Basler
Kantonalbank (BSKP) , which are already the subjects of a U.S. probe.  “At this stage it seems parliament is rejecting the
bill,” said Paolo Dardanelli of the Swiss Politics Center at
the U.K.’s University of Kent. “The government may have to act
without parliamentary approval to authorize banks to cooperate
with the U.S.”  While Swiss companies are usually prohibited from sending
evidence to assist foreign legal proceedings, the country’s
government authorized an exemption in April last year at the
request of an undisclosed number of banks. Firms already under
investigation including Credit Suisse and Julius Baer turned
over employee names and information on cross-border business
operations to the U.S. authorities.  Bank Defense  A Swiss court in April rejected an appeal by a former
lawyer at HSBC’s Swiss private bank against the handover of his
and other employee names to U.S. authorities.  “The government will have to deal with it and probably
give some authorizations to the banks so that they can defend
themselves in the proceedings they are involved in with the
U.S.,” Michel Derobert, Geneva-based Secretary General of the
Swiss Private Bankers Association by phone.  Still, Widmer-Schlumpf has stressed that the government
won’t resort to emergency law, as it did with UBS, if the bill
gets rejected.  Any decree the government would pass instead of a bill
would have a smaller scope, she told Swiss public broadcaster
SRF today.  “Within the framework of the law we will do what we can do
via a decree, but we can of course not go as far as with a bill
and there are parts of the program that you then can’t
implement,” Widmer-Schlumpf said in a SRF interview.  The finance minister proposed the plan on May 29, saying it
would give banks back legal certainty and draw a line under
their U.S. business. Due to the urgency of the matter, the
government is taking the unusual step of rushing it through
parliament in the same session.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net ;
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  