-- Syria Counts on $1 Billion Iran Fund to Support Pound
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-06-18T10:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/syria-counts-on-1-billion-iran-fund-to-support-pound.html
Syria ’s central bank said a $1
billion credit line from Iran will help support the pound as the
currency extended its record slump after the U.S. decided last
week to arm rebels fighting President Bashar al-Assad.  The central bank has set up a mechanism to use the credit
to “finance a big part of the local market’s need, which will
contribute to reducing the pressure” on the pound’s exchange
rate, the state-run Sana news agency quoted Central Bank
Governor Adib Mayaleh as saying. The report did not say when the
credit line was given.  The Syrian central bank plans to sell foreign currencies to
banks and exchange houses starting today to finance imports and
meet citizens’ needs, Mayaleh said, according to Sana. Every
Syrian citizen can buy as many as 1,000 euros ($1,333) a month,
the news agency reported.  The pound has depreciated to a record this year amid the
conflict, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
fell 0.5 percent to 99.5295 a dollar on June 14 after President
 Barack Obama  decided to send light weapons to the rebels.  Mayaleh called the drop “unjustified,” the state-run news
agency reported. The central bank will continue to defend the
exchange rate “whenever necessary,” he said.  Black Market  The weakness is greater on the black market, where the rate
is at about 200 to the dollar, according to a money changer in
 Beirut  who asked not to be identified because the practice is
controversial. A Facebook page that tracks the exchange rate in
the unregulated market showed that the currency was trading from
200 to 225 to the dollar yesterday.  The latest weakness “took people by surprise,” said Zaid,
a 27-year-old Damascus-based lawyer who declined to give his
last name for fear of repercussions. “It has created panic
among Syrians, whose salaries are not keeping up with the drop
in the value.”  Iran  is a longtime ally of the Assad dynasty, which has
ruled Syria for more than four decades. Hezbollah, the  Iranian-backed Lebanese militant group, is fighting with the president’s
forces against rebels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  