-- U.K. Banker Bonuses Face Decade Delays in Industry Overha
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n ,   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-06-19T11:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/u-k-bankers-face-proposed-decade-s-delay-for-bonuses.html
Senior employees at  U.K. banks  may
face a 10-year wait for bonuses under proposals put forward by a
committee investigating the failures of the industry, which also
recommended making “reckless” management of lenders a crime.  A “substantial part” of variable compensation for the
highest earners at banks including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  should be deferred for up to a decade to better
align their interests with shareholders, the Parliamentary
Commission on Banking Standards said in a statement today. Its
proposal to introduce a criminal offence for mismanagement,
which could see executives of failed firms facing jail time, was
endorsed by Prime Minister  David Cameron .  “The potential rewards for fleeting short-term success
have sometimes been huge, but the penalties for failure, often
manifest only later, have been much smaller or negligible,” the
authors of the report said. “Banks should understand that many
consider the levels of reward in recent years to have grown to
grotesque levels at the most senior ranks.”  Pay reform is part of a program of sweeping change proposed
by the commission, a cross-party group of lawmakers set up last
year by Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  after a
series of scandals and five years of poor returns for the
financial industry. The report also called on the government to
introduce a register for bankers and consider breaking up  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc .  EU Clash  While some lawyers today criticized the potential criminal
offense as unworkable in practice,  Andrew Tyrie , the lawmaker
who leads the committee, said the proposals are better than the
plan adopted this year by the European Union over U.K.
resistance. The EU aims to block banker bonuses of more than
double fixed pay.  “We’re not trying to stop people earning a lot of money,
but making sure that they’ve demonstrated that they’ve really
earned it,” Tyrie, a member of Cameron’s  Conservative Party ,
said in an interview this morning on BBC Radio 4. “Trust in
banking has collapsed. We’ve got to restore it, not least
because banking is essential for the British economy and the
British economic revival as a whole.”  The committee didn’t call for a bonus cap because there’s
evidence the EU plan is having a “perverse effect” and pushing
up fixed pay, he said.  “Penalizing, including criminal penalties against bankers
who behave irresponsibly, I say yes,” Cameron told lawmakers in
the House of Commons in London today. On the question of clawing
back bonuses, “I say yes too,” Cameron said.  Mansion House  The government welcomes the report and plans to respond by
the summer Parliamentary recess, a Treasury spokesman said in an
e-mailed statement. Jean-Christophe Gray, a spokesman for
Cameron, told reporters in London today that the commission’s
report was “an impressive piece of work.”  “The right thing to do is consider it in detail but
consider it very swiftly as well,” Gray said.  Osborne will address senior financial figures on the
recommendations and the future of state-controlled RBS and
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  in his speech at London’s Mansion House
later today. He has sought to simultaneously defend London’s
financial district from EU restraints, placate British voters
and retain well-paid jobs amid speculation banks may be tempted
to relocate some of their operations to  New York ,  Hong Kong  or
 Singapore  for a lower tax and regulatory burden.  Deferred Compensation  “This is the most significant report into banking for a
generation,” British Bankers’ Association Chief Executive
Officer Anthony Browne said in an e-mailed statement. “We want
the U.K.’s banking industry to once again set the gold standard
for professionalism and integrity. We look forward to working
with government and regulators to take forward the constructive
proposals contained in the report.”  Bank shares fell in London trading today. HSBC  declined  1.5
percent at 12:12 p.m. local time, Lloyds and  Standard Chartered
Plc (STAN)  both fell 0.7 percent, and RBS declined 1.2 percent.
Barclays dropped 0.4 percent.  Compensation should be deferred by up to 10 years to
reflect the length of time it takes for profits and losses from
banking transactions to be realized, the U.K. committee said.
Banks should also be given the right to claw back pay after
employees leave a firm, as wrongdoing can take several years to
come to light, they said.  ‘Pincer Movement’  “Banking pay now feels as if it is caught in a pincer
movement, with political and regulatory pressure suddenly now
both addressing the same issues at the same time,” said  Isabel
Pooley , a lawyer at CMS Cameron McKenna LLP. “The 10-year
deferral proposal is realistically just the start of further pay
restrictions. Clawbacks of bonuses which have already been paid
to employees can be difficult, including recovery of any tax
already paid, so firms generally prefer to reduce unvested
awards instead.”  The proposals go further than changes introduced by U.K.
regulators after the financial crisis, which forced bankers to
wait up to five years to get their bonuses.  “Deferral has a role to play in creating more sustainable
pay practices, but too much focus on deferral is misguided,”
said Tom Gosling, the head of the reward practice in  London  at
consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. “It’s more
important to focus on what people are getting paid for than how
they are getting paid. With less deferral, it’s possible to pay
people less in the first place.”  Payment in Bonds  Other suggestions by the commission include paying staff in
bail-in bonds that convert into capital to absorb losses,
leaving managers exposed to losses if their firm goes bust.
Performance should be assessed using a range of measures rather
than just return on equity, which creates “perverse
incentives,” the committee said.  Unite, a labor union that represents 1.5 million workers in
Britain and Ireland, said the proposals aren’t sufficient.  “Tinkering at the edges is not enough,” the union said in
an e-mailed statement. “The difference between the pay of the
highest and lowest paid in Britain’s biggest banks is completely
unacceptable.”  Over more than 600 pages of recommendations, Tyrie and his
committee said a culture of greed and short-termism opened the
door to mis-selling and market manipulation scandals and created
a deep rift between bankers and the rest of the population.  Prison Threat  “The public are customers of the banks,” the committee
said. “Taxpayers have bailed out the banks. The public have the
sense that advantage has been taken of them, that bankers have
received huge rewards, that some of those rewards have not been
properly earned, and in some cases have been obtained through
dishonesty, and that these huge rewards are excessive, bearing
little or no relationship to the value of the work done.”  The committee recommended introducing an offence for
“reckless misconduct” and potential prison time for bankers
found responsible for the worst mismanagement, the first such
sanctions. The offence would apply for the “most serious of
failings, such as where a bank failed with substantial costs to
the taxpayer, lasting consequences for the financial system, or
serious harm to customers,” the report said.  “It seems extraordinarily difficult to imagine that an
offence of reckless misconduct in the management of a bank will
be successful,” Alistair Graham, a lawyer at Mayer Brown, said
in an e-mail. “As a criminal offense, it will have to be proved
beyond all reasonable doubt. The pressing question today is
whether this is a significant step towards U.S.-style
enforcement.”  Banker Registry  The authors said they would like to see a register of
senior bankers whose roles and responsibilities are clearly
defined to avoid situations where executives claimed to have no
knowledge of deals and decisions in their banks or said they
were group decisions, thus avoiding blame for losses.  “One of the most dismal features of the banking industry
to emerge from our evidence was the striking limitation on the
sense of personal responsibility and accountability of the
leaders within the industry for the widespread failings and
abuses over which they presided,” said the report. “Ignorance
was offered as the main excuse.”  The commission also asked the government to carry out a
“detailed analysis” by September of the merits of hiving off
the “bad bank” troubled assets of RBS, which is 81 percent
government-owned. Splitting the lender may lead to “significant
advantages” by “focusing the good bank on U.K. retail and
commercial banking and, by freeing it from legacy problems,
strengthening its ability to lend,” according to the lawmakers.  A split would make RBS “a more attractive investment
proposition, which could subsequently be privatized at a good
price,” the commission said.  The proposals were endorsed by  Ed Balls , Osborne’s critic
from the opposition  Labour Party .  “This report sets out a radical blueprint for change on
professional standards, regulation, competition, pay and
accountability,” Balls, the shadow chancellor, said in an e-mailed statement. “It is vital that the government and the
banks rise to the challenge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Campbell  at   k.campbell@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at +33-1-5365-5063 or  fconnelly@bloomberg.net  