-- U.K. May Become Rapeseed Net Importer After Rain, Slugs Cut Crop
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-06-18T08:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/u-k-may-become-rapeseed-net-importer-after-rain-slugs-cut-crop.html
The U.K. may become a net importer
of rapeseed for the first time in four years after excess rain
swamped fields and crops were damaged by pigeons and slugs.  Production of  rapeseed  may drop to 1.5 million to 2 million
metric tons during the 2013-14 harvest, which starts in July,
said Owen Cligg, trading manager at Devizes, England-based
 marketing company  United Oilseeds. That would be the  smallest 
since at least 2009 and compares with last year’s harvest of
2.56 million tons, according to data from the Department for
Environment, Food & Rural Affairs.  Through March, the U.K. had exported about 572,500 tons of
last year’s crop, down 29 percent from the same time a year
earlier, against imports of 16,200 tons, according to the most
recent customs data distributed by the Kenilworth, England-based
Agriculture & Horticulture Development Board. The U.K. was last
a net importer in the 2009-10 season.  “The rapeseed situation is still very uncertain, and is
where the majority of concerns lie,” Jack Watts, a senior
analyst at AHDB, said in an interview last week. “We were hit
very hard by the weather, which created a very late, variable
crop. There is debate what side of the  trade balance  we’ll be
on, a net importer or exporter.”  Rapeseed crops are maturing two to three weeks behind the
normal pace, Cligg said by phone yesterday. Some farmers planted
winter rapeseed about a month later than normal last September
after wet weather slowed the wheat harvest and limited the
number of fields available for sowing oilseeds, he said. The
U.K. had its second-wettest year on record last year and the
coldest spring this year since 1962, the  Met Office  says.  Winter Crops  Some farmers have replanted failed winter rapeseed crops
with spring varieties, which typically yield less, Cligg said.
Total production of 2 million tons would be the smallest crop
since 2009, while output at 1.5 million tons would be the least
since 2002, according to Defra.  “We’ve had some quite challenging conditions,” said
Cligg, whose company handles 20 percent of the U.K.’s rapeseed.
Crops were “hit with a barrage of pigeons and slugs and
generally cold weather. It was a very late spring, which meant a
lot of rapeseed was torn up because it was never really viable,
because it had been destroyed by pests and cold winds.”  The U.K. will drop to fourth place for rapeseed production
in the European Union this season, behind Germany, France and
 Poland , according to Brussels-based farm lobby Coceral. Rapeseed
futures on NYSE Liffe in Paris rallied to a record 526.25 euros
($702.60) a ton in July, as world oilseed supplies were reduced
by U.S. drought. The price has slid 21 percent since then, with
the August contract closing at 416.75 euros a ton yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  