-- U.S. Needs Oil Sands as Surge From Shale Bonanza Seen Overdone
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y ,   E d w a r d   W e l s c h   a n d   M a t t   W i n k l e r
-- 2013-06-19T06:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/u-s-needs-oil-sands-as-surge-from-shale-bonanza-seen-overdone.html
The U.S. will continue to need crude
from  Canada ’s oil sands because rising production from its shale
formations is too expensive to maintain.  Increased crude output from U.S. shale isn’t “sustainable
production,” Mike Tims, chairman of Canadian investment bank
Peters & Co., said yesterday at a Bloomberg energy forum in
Calgary. Producers need to invest too much to sustain production
from wells in the Bakken and Permian basins, which falls as much
as 70 percent in the first year, Tims said.  “The optimism about additions to the U.S. oil production
needs to be tempered a little bit,” Tims said.  Oil-sands  capital spending  fell 10 percent last year to
C$20.4 billion ($20 billion), as some Canadian producers cut
budgets amid competition from lower-cost oil supplies in U.S.
shale basins, Alberta energy regulators said in a report last
month. Production from the Bakken Shale in  North Dakota  has more
than  doubled  from 2011 through April to 727,150 barrels a day,
according to the North Dakota Industrial Commission.  The U.S., the world’s largest economy, will probably never
be able to meet its own supply needs, said Chris Seasons,
president of  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN) ’s Canadian division. Devon
produced 8.5 million barrels of crude from Canada in the first
quarter, including from its Jackfish oil-sands project.  “They’re still importing a lot of oil and my view is I
don’t see U.S. oil self-sufficiency, perhaps, ever,” Seasons
said on the panel.  Price Discount  Canadian oil producers are being paid less for their crude
than global prices, as proposed pipelines to the continent’s
coasts are delayed amid rising North American supplies. Canada’s
crude output will more than double to 6.7 million barrels a day
by 2030, provided new export conduits are built, according to
the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers.  Seasons put U.S. approval at 90 percent for  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed $5.3 billion Keystone XL pipeline that would
deliver oil-sands crude to Gulf Coast refineries. Tims also said
the project will probably proceed, though he estimated the risk
of rejection is higher because it’s a political decision.  Beyond the next five years, challenging economics will
threaten oil-sands spending more than lack of transportation as
costs rise, Seasons said.  “While  oil prices  have gone from that $18 to $19 range
where they sat for decades to today’s price of $98 a barrel, the
economics haven’t really changed” since 1998, Seasons said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Winkler in  New York  at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  