-- U.S. Bank Regulator Says Firms Taking More Risks Chasing Returns
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-06-18T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/u-s-bank-regulator-says-firms-taking-more-risks-chasing-returns.html
As U.S. banks take more risks
hunting higher returns, regulators are keeping a close watch on
the safety of new strategies and products, according to an
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency report.  In the effort to maintain record profits, banks may take
excessive risks in the sluggish economy, also facing the chance
that an increase in the unusually low interest rates could make
them vulnerable to capital erosion, the OCC said in its twice-yearly report on industry hazards. It also noted growth in other
dangers to banks, such as from computer hackers and increasingly
sophisticated money laundering.  “Large banks are grappling with the need for fundamental
changes to their business models as a result of weakening
revenue growth, including shifts in trading, securitization, and
consumer fee income,” according to the OCC’s Semiannual Risk
Perspective. “OCC supervisory staff will focus on strategic
business and new product planning to determine whether adequate
consideration of safe and sound business practices is evident.”  The agency is taking lessons from the banks’ mortgage-servicing faults during the 2008 credit crisis, according to the
report, and staff will look at high-volume, rapid-growth revenue
activities to find potential weaknesses.  As investors chase more yield, the agency has also seen
greater demand for high-yield products such as collateralized
loan obligations, and the OCC said the surge will produce
“greater quantities of weakly underwritten loans.”  Loan Growth  “Against a backdrop of sluggish economic growth and
interest rates that remain near historical lows, loan growth is
at half its average pace over the last 25 years,” the OCC said
in the report. Strong commercial and industrial lending may slow
in the next few years as businesses reduce the growth of their
inventories, the report said, which would probably intensify
current “aggressive competitive conditions” and weaken
underwriting.  Revenue from trading dropped 31 percent from 2011 to 2012,
the report said, partially crediting “well-publicized losses”
at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  along with tightening credit spreads. It
predicted net interest margins will show little improvement “in
the near term,” and many banks will increase their exposure to
interest-rate risk by investing extra cash in longer-maturity
securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 