-- Hungarian Banks Face Record Tax Burden in Cabinet's Plan
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-06-18T12:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/hungarian-banks-face-record-tax-burden-in-cabinet-s-plan.html
Hungarian commercial banks, which
pay the highest bank levy in  Europe , face a further erosion in
profitability as Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  raises taxes and
adds new charges on the financial industry.  Economy Minister Mihaly Varga yesterday said authorities
will boost the financial-transaction tax to 0.6 percent on cash
withdrawals from 0.3 percent and to 0.3 percent on wire
transfers from 0.2 percent, based on an agreement with lenders,
which the bank association denied. The Cabinet also wants banks
to return 7 percent of municipal loans assumed by the state, or
48 billion forint ($219 million), the ministry said today.  “Predictability suffered a blow again,” said analyst
Attila Gyurcsik at Concorde Securities Zrt. in Budapest “Just
when we thought we were approaching a consolidation stage and a
return to business as usual, it turns out no to be the case.”  Hungary ’s banking industry was unprofitable for the second
consecutive year in 2012 as total lending fell and bad loans
rose. “Weak profitability” will persist in the next two years,
the central bank said June 14, citing Orban’s reliance on
extraordinary taxes on banks and other industries to rein in the
budget  deficit  and exit European Union monitoring for budget
offenders after nine years.  The government last year backtracked on a pledge to cut the
special bank tax in half even as a slump in lending jeopardized
the country’s emergence from a  recession .  ‘Better Off’  The charge on local council loans doesn’t qualify as
selective default as the debt assumption and banks’ payment
obligations are “legally separate issues,” the  Economy
Ministry  said in a statement today. Banks “are better off” as
the debt takeover allows the industry to free up provisions, the
ministry said.  OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, fell as much as
2.5 percent yesterday after the announcement, the most in more
than two weeks. The stock traded 0.5 percent weaker at 4,848 by
2:29 p.m. in Budapest. The benchmark BUX index declined 0.4
percent to the lowest in more than a week, falling for a second
day.  OTP competes with  Italy ’s  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Austria ’s  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG. (RBI)   Hungary’s Bank Association denied reaching an agreement on
tax changes during talks with the Cabinet, it told state news
agency MTI yesterday. Banks will only support taxes that help
economic growth, the body said.  Tax Compromise  Bank Association President Mihaly Patai said on April 10
that banks were seeking a bank-tax compromise that would allow
them to write off part of the extraordinary levy in exchange for
higher lending once Hungary exits the EU’s excessive-deficit
procedure.  Banks also received “a firm pledge” from the government
that the Cabinet won’t impose a haircut on municipal bonds taken
over by the state, he said on April 8.  Orban announced last year the central government would take
over debts from municipalities to ease their repayment burden.
Under the program, the state consolidated the entire debt load
of municipalities with 5,000 inhabitants or less and partially
took over the debt of the rest.  Under the government’s program of assuming local council
debt, banks were promised not to incur any losses, Raiffeisen
said in a focus presentation on May 28. The bank refused to
comment on the government’s latest measures.  Other Taxes  Hungary, which also raised a tax on phone calls and mining
royalties, is taking the additional measures to keep the country
out of budget monitoring once the exit is granted, Varga said
yesterday. The  inflation  rate, at 1.8 percent in May, resulted
in a revenue shortfall on the value-added and financial-transaction taxes, he said.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank, which is trying to prop up lending
to boost growth, is offering 750 billion forint ($ billion) in
interest-free funds that commercial banks will use to extend
credit to small and medium-size companies.  The plan “may realistically lead to a turnaround in
lending,” central bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy said on May
29.  Policy makers slashed the benchmark interest rate for a
10th month in a row in May, bringing borrowing costs to a
record-low 4.5 percent in a bid to help ignite growth after last
year’s recession.  The central bank probably will keep cutting  interest rates 
in quarter-point steps, Monetary Council member Gyula
Pleschinger told the Wall Street Journal yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  