-- UniCredit Among European Banks Needing More Capital, ICV Says
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-06-18T12:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/unicredit-among-european-banks-needing-more-capital-icv-says.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) 
and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  are among banks in Europe most susceptible to
stress because they didn’t deleverage enough, according to a
study by Switzerland’s Independent Credit View.  The rating company found that 25 banks in Germany, Italy,
Spain, the U.K., France, Austria, Denmark, the Netherlands,
Poland and Ireland have a capital shortage of 776 billion euros
($1.04 trillion) in stress tests that included assigning higher
risk weightings to some government bonds, Christian Fischer, a
partner and banking analyst at ICV, told reporters in Zurich
today. ICV doesn’t see any capital shortage for the eight banks
it tested in the U.S. and  Canada .  “Banks in Europe haven’t really moved from the spot”
compared with last year, Fischer said. “The U.S. addressed the
pressing issue, which is capital, whereas in Europe banks just
got liquidity in the hope that better times will come at some
point. This liquidity wasn’t passed through to the economies but
quasi animated the banks to buy more  government bonds .”  European banks’ exposure to the sovereign bonds of
countries in the region exceeds 1 trillion euros, according to
ICV. Banking assets have risen 9 percent between 2007 and 2012,
while risk-weighted assets have fallen 6 percent over the same
period, suggesting that rather than deleveraging and building
capital the banks have simply been replacing some assets with
government bonds against which they need to hold less capital,
if any at all, according to ICV.  Government Bonds  UniCredit, Italy’s biggest bank, owns more than 96 billion
euros in European Union government bonds and would need to boost
capital by an amount equivalent to almost 17 percent of its
market capitalization if it were required to hold reserves
against those assets, according to the study.  ICV assigned risk weightings to government bonds similar to
those used for corporate debt and using its own ratings for the
countries’ creditworthiness. For Intesa and Commerzbank that
capital need would amount to 21 percent and 23 percent of their
respective market capitalization.  “There has been significantly less improvement in leverage
compared to the risk-weighted  capital ratios ,” Fischer said,
adding that banks have also been reluctant to provision for or
get rid of non-performing assets. “The banks are sitting on the
same non-performing loans that are not being cleaned up because
if they were, it would hurt capital.”  Non-performing loans at the 25 banks made up 7.3 percent of
total loans in 2012 compared with 6.6 percent in 2011, while
only 52 percent of them were covered by provisions last year
compared with 57 percent in 2011, ICV said.  Other European banks among the most-susceptible to a stress
situation include  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP) ,  Bank of Ireland ,
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , according to the
study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  