-- UnitedHealth Delays Force Pentagon to Take Action Again
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-06-18T17:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/unitedhealth-delays-force-pentagon-to-take-action-again.html
The Pentagon will step in for the
third time to combat medical-care delays under  UnitedHealth
Group Inc. (UNH) ’s $20.5 billion contract, as an analyst warned they
risked hurting the company’s earnings.  The bottlenecks began after the nation’s biggest health
insurer took over the contract for coordinating medical services
in April. The delays forced the Defense Department to
temporarily ease insurance requirements twice in May, with the
military today announcing another extension until July 2.  The delays may have “negative implications” for
UnitedHealth’s earnings in the second quarter,  Sheryl Skolnick ,
a  Stamford , Connecticut-based analyst with CRT Capital Group
LLC, said in a report today.  “The bad news is that the problem isn’t solved yet,”
Skolnick said. “The pipe is still clogged.”  While the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based insurer has improved
its performance, “there is a need for additional progress in
the area of specialty-care referrals,” Austin Camacho, a
spokesman for the military’s Tricare health program, said in an
e-mail.  The backlog affected members of the Tricare Prime plan for
active-duty troops, retirees and their families in 21 states,
most in the western region of the U.S. Many of the complaints
have been centered on UnitedHealth’s slow authorizations of
specialty-care referrals.  Bruce Jasurda, a UnitedHealth spokesman, didn’t respond to
an e-mail and phone call seeking comment.  Contract Penalties  The Pentagon’s action today will allow the plan’s members
to temporarily sidestep UnitedHealth’s approval process for
specialty-care referrals without incurring any fees. The Defense
Department first waived the requirement through May 18 and then
extended it through June 18.  The good news is that the Pentagon’s extension is for two
weeks -- not months, wrote Skolnick, who is maintaining a
“buy” rating on the company. She said she didn’t believe the
contract was at risk, as embarrassing as it must be for
UnitedHealth.  “However, we can’t rule out monetary penalties, etc., that
the Pentagon may be able to impose under the contract,”
Skolnick said.  The loss ratio, or percentage of premiums paid out for
medical claims, on the Tricare contract, “could be
significantly higher than anticipated,” she said. “We see it
as a drag on a contract that probably wasn’t going to be
profitable this quarter anyway.”  Less Control  Because the Pentagon waivers allow enrollees to obtain
medical care without UnitedHealth’s authorization, the insurer
has less control over health-care costs under the plan, Skolnick
said.  In an interview last week, she said the failures may also
hurt the company’s ability to win more federal contracts.  UnitedHealth last week changed the leadership of the unit
overseeing the Pentagon contract. Lori McDougal, former chief
executive officer for the division, accepted a new position with
the company.  Tina Jonas, a former Defense Department comptroller, is now
president of UnitedHealth’s military and veterans unit, which
oversees the Pentagon contract. No one has been named CEO of
that unit, Matt Stearns, a UnitedHealth spokesman, said last
week.  “The change in leadership feels to me like a  mea culpa ,”
 Ana Gupte , an analyst with Dowling & Partners in Farmington,
 Connecticut , said in a phone interview. “If they have this go
on for another several months, it’s an issue. Given that they
just announced a change in leadership, it probably is worth
giving them some time to fix it.”  Reputation Damage  The delays under the contract have “certainly” damaged
UnitedHealth’s reputation, Gupte said. For now, it’s unlikely
the Pentagon contract delays will affect the company’s share
price, she said.  UnitedHealth cracked the  U.S. military market  with the
contract, awarded in March 2012. The Pentagon spent almost $61
billion on health care during the year that ended Sept. 30,
2012, said Wayne Plucker, a global industry manager at  Frost &
Sullivan , a consulting and market research firm based in
 Mountain View ,  California .  The contract covers 21 states in Tricare’s western region,
including  Colorado , California,  Hawaii ,  Minnesota  and  Arizona .
There are 1.6 million Tricare Prime beneficiaries in the region
served by UnitedHealth.  The military chose UnitedHealth over TriWest Healthcare
Alliance Corp., a Phoenix-based company that coordinated care
for military families for 17 years, for its better “technical
approach,” according to a federal government review published
last year.  TriWest has cut 1,500 employees since losing the contract,
said Scott Celley, a spokesman for the company. David McIntyre Jr., TriWest’s founder, has said the contract was the company’s
“only business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  