-- Erdogan Calls Protests Conspiracy, Vows to Strengthen Police
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-06-18T14:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/turkey-detains-protest-suspects-eu-meetings-reported-canceled.html
Turkey ’s Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan accused the main opposition party of inciting weeks of
protests and vowed to strengthen police in “every way” to
fight a “conspiracy” by traitors and foreign agitators.  Earlier today, Turkish police raided homes in Istanbul and
Ankara, rounding up 85 people suspected of violence against
police, Interior Minister Muammer Guler said. Overnight, they
fired tear gas and water cannons to disperse hundreds of
protesters in Ankara. The European Union has denounced the use
of force by police, and today, members of the European
Parliament canceled a planned visit.  In a speech to parliament, Erdogan alleged, without saying
where he got the figure, that 76 percent of the protesters who
occupied Istanbul’s Gezi Park had voted for the secular
Republican People’s Party. He accused its leader,  Kemal Kilicdaroglu , of acting like a “militant of a terrorist
organization” and said other opposition lawmakers disseminated
“lies on Twitter” to incite masses.  “From now on, police will not turn a blind eye to any
illegal activity,” said Erdogan, who has promised to probe the
use of excessive force by police against protesters. “We will
further strengthen our police in every way, so it can intervene
in these kind of incidents more forcefully.” He did not
elaborate.  Conduct Assailed  The biggest street demonstrations against the decade-old
Erdogan government erupted May 31 in frustration over what
protesters say is his increasingly authoritarian conduct and
attempts to impose Islamic ways on the country. At least four
people have died in clashes between demonstrators and police,
and thousands have been injured.  “The time has come for Turkey to get rid of the
dictator,” opposition leader Kilicdaroglu retorted to Erdogan
in parliament today.  Financial markets have been reeling, with stocks and bonds
extending losses today. The  benchmark equity index  dropped 0.6
percent at 3:40 p.m. in Istanbul, taking its decline this month
to 8.7 percent. Yields on two-year lira debt rose 40 basis
points to 6.64 percent.  Last weekend, police drove protesters from Gezi Park and
nearby Taksim Square, the center of the unrest, arresting
hundreds. A single man stood for hours in Taksim until early
today, triggering a silent protests by dozens of people as word
of his vigil spread on social media.  Banned Groups  Most of the suspects detained in today’s round-up were
linked to banned left-wing groups, state-run TRT television
said. Targets included a newspaper and news agency linked to a
Marxist group, TRT said.  Erdogan said his government foiled a conspiracy that was
well planned by “traitors” backed by “circles abroad,”
including international media and a group he calls the
“interest rate lobby.” Ministers have said a group of
international banks and individuals is stoking the unrest to
keep Turkey’s interest rates high and benefit on speculative
trading.  “Turkey has emerged stronger from a test of democracy,”
he said, inviting supporters to rallies in central Turkey this
week, following similar rallies in Istanbul and Ankara over the
weekend.  Criticism Rebuffed  Erdogan has rebuffed EU criticism of the Turkish police
crackdown. The friction led the European Parliament’s foreign
affairs committee to cancel a planned trip to Turkey.  “In the face of the declarations made by representatives
of the government of Turkey, the committee has decided to
postpone its visit. I regret this,” Elmar Brok, chairman of the
foreign affairs committee, said in a statement today.  State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki told reporters
yesterday in  Washington  that the U.S. believes most Turks at the
demonstrations were “peacefully protesting, expressing their
rights to freedom of speech.”  She cited concerns about “reports of activity including
police brutality,” and also said the U.S. is “very troubled by
any pressure being placed on journalists or media
organizations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  