-- Turkey Yields Jump Most in 2 Weeks, Lira Drops on Erdogan Speech
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-06-18T14:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/turkey-yields-jump-most-in-2-weeks-lira-drops-on-erdogan-speech.html
Turkey ’s bond yields rose the most
in two weeks and the lira and stocks reversed gains as Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  accused opposition lawmakers of
inciting protests and vowed to strengthen the police response.  Two-year benchmark  yields  surged after Erdogan blamed
“certain capital groups, the interest rate lobby and certain
organizations inside and outside” the country for organizing
protests, in his address to the  Justice and Development Party  at
Parliament in Ankara today. The central bank left its three main
 interest rates  unchanged today, citing a recovery in domestic
demand. Investors awaited signs from the U.S. Federal Reserve
about when it may start to reduce stimulus, as that would cut
investors’ appetite for riskier assets.  “The yields were already up before the rates decision as
political tension lingers,” Pinar Uslu, a private banking
strategist at ING Bank in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  Two-year  yields  climbed 57 basis points, the most on a
closing basis since June 3, to 6.81 percent at 4:31 p.m. in
Istanbul. Ten-year yields increased 24 basis points to 7.50
percent, rising for a second day.  The Fed starts a two-day policy meeting today, about a
month after Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said quantitative easing
could be scaled back if the U.S. employment outlook showed
sustainable improvement.  The markets are “in essence, waiting for what Bernanke
will say,” ING’s Uslu said. “Any statement from the Fed that
would result in higher U.S. yields would also have a similar
effect on our markets, especially 10-year yields.”  Lira Weakens  The lira weakened 0.5 percent to 1.8834 per dollar,
extending its loss this year to 5.3 percent, the second-biggest
depreciation among European, Middle Eastern and African
currencies monitored by Bloomberg. The Borsa Istanbul National
100 index fell 0.9 percent, sliding for a second day, after
gaining 1.1 percent in earlier trading.  “The lira has depreciated with the market reacting
negatively to Erdogan’s comments,” Uslu said.  The central bank kept the benchmark one-week repo rate at
4.5 percent at its policy meeting today, while maintaining the
overnight lending and borrowing rates at 6.5 percent and 3.5
percent, respectively. The move is in line with the median
estimate of all economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Erdogan accused the main opposition party of inciting weeks
of protests and vowed to strengthen police in “every way” to
fight a “conspiracy” by traitors and foreign agitators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  