-- US Airways-AMR Antitrust OK Said Unlikely by Mid-August
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-06-18T15:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/us-airways-amr-antitrust-ok-said-unlikely-by-mid-august.html
US Airways  Group Inc. and  AMR
Corp. ’s  American Airlines  won’t learn if their $11 billion
merger passes U.S. antitrust review before a court hears
American’s request to confirm its bankruptcy reorganization plan
in August, people familiar with the matter said.  The  Justice Department  still is analyzing whether the
combination will create a monopoly in any markets and isn’t
close to issuing a decision, said three people, who asked not to
be named because process is confidential. The ruling is one of
the few remaining hurdles to be cleared before the carriers can
combine to form the world’s largest airline.  “Ordinarily this might seem like a long time for the
merger review,” said Seth Bloom, the former general counsel of
the Senate Antitrust Subcommittee who’s now in private practice
in  Washington . “But because they’re waiting for the bankruptcy
court to confirm the plan, I wouldn’t read substantive
conclusions into that.”  American will ask the bankruptcy court overseeing its
Chapter 11 case in  Manhattan  to confirm the airline’s
reorganization plan at an Aug. 15 hearing.  Ed Stewart, a spokesman for Tempe, Arizona-based US
Airways, declined to comment on the timing, as did American
spokesman  Michael Trevino .  Competitors including JetBlue Airways Corp. and Southwest
Airlines Co. have questioned the extent of control the new
American will have over Washington’s Reagan National Airport. US
Airways Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker, who will lead the
combined carrier, has said he doesn’t expect any antitrust
issues to be raised.  Airport Slots  U.S. regulators limit takeoff and landing slots at the
airport, where US Airways has said the post-merger American will
control 67 percent of daily departures. The combined carrier
will have 25 percent of the aircraft seats in the  market , which
includes Washington Dulles International and
Baltimore/Washington International Thurgood Marshall airports,
US Airways has said.  In addition to securing approval from the  bankruptcy court 
and antitrust regulators, US Airways shareholders have to
support the combination in a July 12 vote before the merger can
close. The companies have said they expect that to happen in the
third quarter.  US Airways and American agreed in February to combine as
part of AMR’s bankruptcy restructuring. AMR creditors will own
72 percent of the equity in the combined airline, while 28
percent will go to US Airways shareholders. Together, they will
pass United Continental Holdings Inc. as the biggest airline,
based on passenger traffic.  US Airways rose 0.12 percent to $16.97 at 10:02 a.m. in  New
York  trading. The shares climbed 26 percent in this year through
yesterday, trailing a 41 percent rise in the Bloomberg U.S.
Airlines Index.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-bk-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 