-- Vale Lifts Output as Ore-Price Drop Hits Mines: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-06-18T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/vale-lifts-output-as-ore-price-drop-hits-mines-corporate-brazil.html
Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, aims to increase production to record levels in an
attempt to win back market share while higher-cost competitors
are hurt by falling prices, said Executive Director for Ferrous
and Strategy Jose Carlos Martins.  The Rio de Janeiro-based company can produce as much as 350
million metric tons next year, 40 million tons more than this
year, Martins said in a June 14 interview. Vale is sticking with
an official target of 326 million tons given in  December , the
press department said by e-mail yesterday.  “Forty million is something we believe is possible,”
Martins, 63, said from the company’s Rio headquarters. “There
is space for Vale to grow by recovering market share and by kind
of squeezing high-cost producers.”  Vale is seeking to stem a slide in market share since 2007
after its biggest rivals,  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
increased output at a faster pace. While  Rio Tinto  and BHP, the
second- and third-largest iron-ore miners, raised production of
the steel-making raw material by 37 percent and 43 percent,
respectively, from 2007 to 2012, Vale’s output rose 5.5 percent
in the period amid environmental permit delays and aging mines.  Startups Squeezed  The Brazilian miner will weather lower iron-ore prices
better than startups that began when prices were higher, Martins
said. Some mines aren’t profitable when prices fall below
current levels because of lower ore quality and scale, he said.
Prices have fallen as much as 31 percent since February.  Vale’s first-quarter  operating margin  rose to 38 percent,
the highest in six quarters, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with an average of 10 percent for 15
comparable mining and steel companies, the data show.  “Many of the juniors will fail,” Martins said. “I don’t
think they can live with the price below $110,” he said,
declining to name firms that may face financing shortages.
“Many junior companies will be absorbed by big guys.”  Vale isn’t planning any more  acquisitions  as it continues
to work on consolidating recent purchases, Martins said. “We
have to digest what we ate,” he said.  Iron-ore prices may rebound “a little bit” at the end of
the year before the Chinese winter after trading around $110 per
ton for the next few months, Martins said. The  raw material 
gained 1.2 percent to $115 a ton yesterday, based on a  price
index  compiled by The Steel Index Ltd. Prices may weaken to $100
a ton by 2016 after averaging $125 a ton this year, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares Drop  Vale  shares  declined 31 percent in  Sao Paulo  this year
compared with a 19 percent drop by  Brazil ’s benchmark. BHP and
Rio Tinto, the largest mining firms, fell 12 percent and 20
percent in Sydney and  London , respectively, over the same span.
Vale gained 0.4 percent to 28.40 reais in Sao Paulo yesterday.  While Vale probably will gain market share from Chinese and
other small producers, it will be harder to capture volume from
BHP and Rio Tinto, which are also low-cost producers, said
Leonardo Brito, an analyst at hedge fund Teorica Investimentos.  “The big companies as a whole are likely to get market
share from the higher cost producers in  China ,” he said by
phone from Rio. “BHP and Rio will also increase their
capacity.”  Press officials for BHP and Rio Tinto didn’t reply to e-mails yesterday seeking comment.  Expansion Delays  Vale is scheduled to start five iron-ore projects by the
end of 2014 with an estimated combined capacity of 87 million
tons at a cost of $8 billion, the company said when reporting
first-quarter  results  April 24. The Carajas Additional 40 Mtpy
project in Brazil’s northern state of Para and the Conceicao
Itabiritos venture in  Minas Gerais  are planned for the second
half of 2013, and the Vargem Grande Itabiritos, Conceicao
Itabiritos II and the Serra Leste projects are set to start next
year.  The company is also advancing with its Serra Sul S11D
project in Carajas, the world’s largest iron-ore complex, which
is the industry’s most expensive venture with a cost of almost
$20 billion for the mine and logistics. The project is expected
to start operating in the second part of 2016.  While the company is experiencing delays at expansions of
its Carajas and Minas Gerais mines because of Brazil’s tight
labor market, the holdups are unlikely to change its schedule,
Martins said in the interview.  “It will not be a big delay because we have several
projects, so one month here, two months there, three months
there,” he said.  Vale’s new projects will allow the company to recover the
market share lost since 2007, Martins said.  “When this new capacity comes on stream we are going to
get market share back because our cost is much lower than
others,” he said. “A big part of those guys are not cost
effective in a lower price scenario.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio De Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  