-- Vanguard to Aberdeen Bet on Singh’s Asset Sales: Corporate India
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-06-18T18:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/vanguard-to-aberdeen-bet-on-singh-s-asset-sales-corporate-india.html
Overseas funds are raising holdings
in India’s state-controlled companies to a two-year high as
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government sells stakes and
attracts investments to revive the weakest economy in a decade.  Stakes of money managers including Vanguard Group Inc. and
 Aberdeen Asset Management Plc. (ADN)  in the 40 biggest companies on
the 60-member S&P BSE India PSU index was an average 8.37
percent at the end of March, the highest level since December
2010, data compiled by Bloomberg at the end of May show.  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  and  Oil India Ltd. (OINL)  are among the
top performers this year on the gauge of state companies after
the government in January eased controls on diesel prices as
part of a policy push to spur growth. Singh plans to raise 400
billion rupees ($6.8 billion) by March selling state assets to
narrow the widest budget gap among major emerging economies.  “Foreign funds are investing in public-sector companies
ahead of a significant government move to divest as the value of
these units is likely to increase significantly once they are
divested,”  John Praveen , New Jersey-based chief investment
strategist at Prudential International Investments Advisers LLC,
wrote in an e-mail. “The government has taken steps to improve
the investment climate,” he said, citing moves to pare
subsidies and open retailing and aviation to further foreign
investment.  Funds’ stakes in the 40 companies fell to an average 7.31
percent at the end of June 2012, a three-year low, amid concern
the government, beset by policy logjam and graft scandals, was
sacrificing shareholder returns while trying to revive growth.  Coal Prices  The Children’s Investment Fund Management, a London-based
hedge fund, sued the government and  Coal India Ltd. (COAL)  in July,
alleging state directives on keeping prices unchanged to shield
utilities from higher raw-material costs hurt its investment in
the miner. ONGC said in May last year its annual  profit  would
have almost doubled had it not been for the discount offered to
refiners on oil supplies. Net income rose 33 percent in the year
ended March 2012.  Foreigners’  stakes  in Coal  India  stood at 5.44 percent as
of March 31, 2013, unchanged from a year ago. The company last
month raised prices for the first time in more than two years,
saying that the increase will add about 21.2 billion rupees to
revenue in the year that started April 1. The government plans
to raise 200 billion rupees selling 10 percent of the miner,
paring its holding from 90 percent.  “State enterprises tend to socialize shareholder profits
via subsidy or investment in projects with low internal rates of
return; so when there’s potential for a step-like change in
profitability due to reform, the sector is bound to attract
interest and fund flow,” Masha Gordon, who oversees $2 billion
in assets as London-based head of emerging-market equities at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said by e-mail on June 17.  ONGC Stake  Foreign funds held 6.27 percent of ONGC as of March 31, up
from 5.35 percent a year ago and the highest since the quarter
ended September 2008. Vanguard, the world’s top mutual-fund
company, added more than 17 million shares to take its stake in
the company to 0.6 percent as on March 31, the data show.  Funds’  stake  in Oil India climbed to 7.65 percent at the
end of the last quarter, from 1.83 percent on March 31, 2012.
The funds owned 1.91 percent in  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) , the largest
refiner, compared with 0.88 percent a year ago. Aberdeen held
9.24 percent of  Container Corp. of India  on May 31.  Attractive valuations may have lured offshore funds to
state companies, according to Andrew Holland, chief executive
officer at Ambit Investment Advisors Pvt. in Mumbai.  ‘Beaten Down’  “Some of these stocks, like those in the banking sector,
were beaten down quite a lot and the price-to-book was quite
low,” Holland said by phone. “Maybe that’s why we’re seeing
some pick up there.”  The PSU index is valued at 8.1 times estimated earnings,
compared with 13.6 times for the benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX) , data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The Sensex has dropped 1.1 percent
this year versus the 15 percent slump in the PSU measure.  Foreigners raised stakes state-run lenders including  State
Bank  of India, the nation’s largest, Punjab National Bank and
 Bank of Baroda  in the March quarter, the data show.  The increase in overseas holdings isn’t limited to state
companies. Average foreign stake in the nation’s  biggest 200
companies  was 17.9 percent on March 31, the highest quarterly
proportion since Bloomberg began compiling the data in 2009.
Inflows of $14.9 billion into Indian equities this year is the
second-highest among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Singh and Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram have
changed policies since September to spur  growth  and avert a
downgrade of the nation’s credit rating. Chidambaram last week
signaled more policy changes to revive growth and said measures
are being taken to stabilize the currency that touched a record
low on June 11.  Fitch Ratings  upgraded India’s credit-rating
outlook to stable from negative on June 12.  “Clients I meet are interested in the reform agenda in
India and there’s a perception that the government is starting
to make some progress in that regard,”  Jonathan Garner , chief
strategist for  Asia  and  emerging markets  at Morgan Stanley, said
in an interview in Mumbai on June 5. “It’s not surprising to me
that they are accumulating some of these names.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 