-- Venezuela Central Bank Plans Expanded Dollar Auctions
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v
-- 2013-06-19T16:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/venezuela-to-boost-dollar-sales-to-aid-imports-leon-says.html
Venezuela will boost supplies of
dollars to importers as it seeks to alleviate a shortage of
goods that is fueling the fastest inflation in the region,
central bank director  Armando Leon  said.  “In the next two months, the supply of goods and services
should normalize,” Leon said in a telephone interview from
Caracas yesterday. Inflation will slow from May, when consumer
prices climbed a record 6.1 percent in the month, he said.  The U.S. currency will be offered through auctions that
will begin early in the second half of the year, Leon said.
Unlike an earlier system, which was abandoned after one sale in
March, small and medium-sized companies as well as individuals
will be allowed to enter bids, he said.  Last month’s price increases were fueled by shortages of
goods from toilet paper to milk after falling crude production
and non-cash oil sales reduced inflows of dollars. Importers,
unable to buy dollars through the official system, turned to the
black market where they pay about five times more than the
official rate.  Venezuela  devalued the currency by 32 percent in
February.  In May and June, the government has focused on alleviating
shortages by supplying more dollars to small and medium-sized
companies through the official exchange system, Leon said.  Alternative System  “The final alternative system to the official Cadivi
system will be expanded and will be made as efficient as
possible,” Leon said, adding that the government was working to
allow public and private banks and companies to be able to sell
dollars on the alternative platform known as Sicad.  Venezuela’s government has not ruled out allowing Sicad to
sell bonds in addition to cash, he said.  “The announcement represents a step forward toward a more
flexible FX system,” Caracas-based brokerage BancTrust & Co.
said in a note to clients today, referring to Leon’s comments.  The central bank’s scarcity index, which tracks staple
goods out of stock, fell to 20.6 percent in May from a five-year
high of 21.3 percent in April.  President Nicolas Maduro previously stated that the
alternative Sicad platform would be re-activated in May. On May
30, Finance Minister Nelson Merentes said that the complementary
foreign exchange system would be made more flexible without
providing a date for a new auction.  Growth R  “The main reasons for the slow implementation of new
reforms are a lack of leadership, ideological differences within
the cabinet, and resistance from groups that benefit from the
status quo,” Barclays Plc said in a note to clients today.  Cabinet changes and the political and economic situation in
the country are producing a more pragmatic approach from the
authorities, the bank said, adding that it expected the Sicad to
be re-activated next month.  The South American country is likely to issue $6 billion of
dollar debt in September or the fourth quarter of the year,
Barclays said.  Venezuela’s GDP growth will be positive in second quarter
of the year and “robust” in the fourth quarter as dollar
shortages are resolved in  South America ’s biggest oil exporter,
Leon said. The country’s economy expanded below estimates at 0.7
percent in the first three months of the year.  Venezuela’s credit rating was cut to B, five levels below
investment grade, by  Standard & Poor’s  yesterday on concern that
divisions within President Nicolas Maduro’s administration may
impair the government’s ability to shore up a sputtering economy
in a move that Leon said was “unfortunate.”  Oil Exports  “They made this decision even as Venezuela has worked to
get foreign currency flowing to the productive sector,” Leon
said. “We have a position of solid reserves and Venezuela
doesn’t have important debt maturities until 2017. Not even the
rating agency questions our ability to pay debt.”  The oil sector, which accounts for 96 percent of the
country’s dollar earnings, will transfer $40 billion to the
central bank in 2013, energy minister  Rafael Ramirez  said last
month. The central bank distributed $59 billion last year,
according to its president, Edmee Betancourt.  Venezuelan oil exports fell 5.6 percent in volume and 13
percent in value in the first quarter of 2013 from the previous
period, according to central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Caracas at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 