-- Verizon Says It’s Considering Deal for Canada’s Wind Mobile
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r ,   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-06-18T22:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/verizon-said-to-express-interest-in-canadian-carrier-wind-mobile.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  has
expressed interest in acquiring wireless carrier Wind Mobile, a
move that would let the leading U.S. mobile-phone service expand
into  Canada .  Wind Mobile is “one of many” options under consideration,
 Bob Varettoni , a spokesman for Verizon, said today in an e-mail.
“We constantly evaluate a wide variety of business
opportunities.” The remarks followed a comment at a Wall Street
Journal conference by Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo, who
said, “This is just us dipping our toe in the water.”  Wind Mobile also has been approached by suitors from Canada
and elsewhere, said two people familiar with the negotiations,
who asked not to be named because the process isn’t public.  UBS
AG (UBSN)  is advising Wind Mobile, the people said.  Verizon’s interest comes five years after the Canadian
government began efforts to boost competition in the wireless
sector with a 2008 spectrum auction. Wind Mobile and fellow new
entrants Mobilicity and Public Mobile Inc. bought spectrum set
aside for them in that auction. So far, the three have struggled
against incumbent carriers  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) ,  BCE Inc. (BCE) 
and  Telus Corp. (T) , which control about 90 percent of Canada’s
mobile-phone market.  The acquisition of Wind Mobile by Verizon could be a
“potential game changer,” though it’s hard to tell if the deal
makes sense, said Drew McReynolds, an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  in Toronto.  ‘Key Question’  “The key question is whether the capital and time
commitment is worth the prize,” he said. “At this juncture, we
are not convinced the prize is big enough.”  Shares of New York-based Verizon rose 1.7 percent to $51.55
today. Wind and Mobilicity are both closely held.  Telus agreed in May to pay about $373 million to buy
Mobilicity before its bid was blocked by the government on June
4. Public Mobile said on June 6 it had been acquired by Thomvest
Seed Capital Inc., an investment firm associated with Peter Thomson, and Cartesian Capital, a New York-based private-equity
firm, for an undisclosed price.  Thomson is the brother of  David Thomson , whose $24.6
billion net worth makes him the world’s 23rd-richest person,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Wind Mobile, based in Toronto, has more than 600,000
subscribers, Tony Lacavera, the company’s founder and chief
executive officer, said earlier this year. Alexandra Maxwell, a
spokeswoman for Wind Mobile, declined to comment yesterday on
the Verizon report, as did UBS spokeswoman Megan Stinson.  Verizon seriously began to consider a bid for Wind Mobile
following the decision by Canadian Industry Minister Christian Paradis to block Telus’s purchase of Mobilicity, one of the
people said. Paradis said at the time that he wouldn’t allow any
of the incumbents to bid for spectrum owned by new entrants
until a moratorium on such transfers ends next year.  The prospect of bidding for Wind Mobile without having to
compete with one of Canada’s three biggest carriers further
encouraged Verizon, the person said.  Verizon’s interest in entering the Canadian market was
reported yesterday by the Globe and Mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  