-- Vietnam Adds to Dong Intervention With Plan to Cut Dollar Rates
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-18T08:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/vietnam-adds-to-dong-intervention-with-plan-to-cut-dollar-rates.html
Vietnam  looks set to ratchet up
intervention in the foreign-exchange market to stem losses in
the dong and promote greater use of the currency.  The State Bank of Vietnam is considering lowering the
maximum  interest rate  that lenders can offer on dollar deposits
to curb demand for the U.S. currency, Nguyen Thu Ha, deputy head
of monetary policy at the central bank, said in a telephone
interview in Hanoi today. She said no timeframe has been set.
The cap will be cut “sharply,” news website VnExpress reported
yesterday, citing central bank Governor Nguyen Van Binh.  The move comes as Asian policy makers seek to temper
declines in their currencies amid concern a reduction in U.S.
monetary easing will spur capital outflows, putting pressure on
inflation as exchange rates weaken. The State Bank intervened
“with reasonable volume” to slow a slide in the dong fueled by
increasing dollar demand from importers, according to a
statement on its website yesterday. The local currency tested
the upper limit in which it’s allowed to trade for a second day.  “This would show the  State Bank  is concerned about dong
deposit rates and is trying to make dollars less attractive in
order to encourage people to shift into dong,” said Fiachra MacCana, managing director of Ho Chi Minh City Securities Corp.
“That could make dong deposits relatively more attractive and
ease pressure on the dong without the State Bank having to
actually adjust the  reference rate .”  Black Market  The central bank caps rates on dollar deposits for
individuals at 2 percent, compared with 7.5 percent for the dong.
The government has embarked on an “anti-dollarization” program
to reduce the use of the greenback and cut black market trading.  The dong was little changed at 21,036 per dollar as of 1:26
p.m. in Hanoi, matching the low reached on six of the last seven
trading days, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s 0.99
percent weaker than the central bank’s  reference  rate of 20,828,
which has remained unchanged since Dec. 26, 2011. The currency
is allowed to trade as much as 1 percent on either side of it.  Still, the dong is faring better than some of its regional
counterparts this quarter. The currency dropped 0.5 percent, a
fraction of the 5.5 percent loss in the Philippine peso and a
4.9 percent decline in the  Thai baht .  Indonesia ’s rupiah is down
2.6 percent and  Malaysia ’s ringgit 2 percent.  Weaker black market rates for the currency can drive up
costs for any importers who have to source dollars using
unofficial prices. A dollar was buying as much as 21,300 dong
last week and 21,155 yesterday, according to separate research
notes from Ho Chi Minh City Securities.  Vietnam’s trade  deficit  widened for a fourth month in May
to reach $1.2 billion, from $936 million in April. It posted a
surplus for eight months through January.  ‘Harmoniously Manage’  Government borrowing costs have increased over the last
week, while stocks have plunged. The  yield  on five-year bonds
climbed 48 basis points, or 0.48 percentage point, to 7.8
percent since April 7, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It
touched 7.23 percent on June 6, the lowest level since June 2007.  The  VN Index (VNINDEX)  of shares fell 0.2 percent today, adding to
yesterday’s 2.1 percent drop that was the worst since April.
It’s still up 20 percent this year.  For the rest of 2013, the  State Bank of Vietnam  will
“closely watch” currency movements and balance of payment
figures “to harmoniously manage the dong’s exchange rate and
interest rates in a manner that will encourage dong holdings and
limit shifting to U.S. dollar holdings,” the central bank said
in a statement yesterday on its website.  The State Bank may also “get into the market” again in
the second half of 2013 “in a timely manner and flexibly manage
money supply channels to control  cash flow ,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  