-- Vietnam Says Asset Company Will Start Operations in Mid-July
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-18T05:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/vietnam-says-asset-company-will-start-operations-in-mid-july.html
State Bank of Vietnam  plans to start
operations of its  asset management company  in mid-July to clean
up nearly $5 billion of bad debt at lenders and accelerate the
country’s banking restructuring process.  “Banks must do two parallel duties: resolve bad debts and
prevent existing loans from becoming bad ones,” according to a
statement on the government’s website, citing central bank
Governor Nguyen Van Binh at the mid-year review with the
nation’s commercial lenders.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung last month approved the
formation of an asset management company, effective July 9, that
will acquire non-performing loans from lenders. Officials are
under pressure to rejuvenate an  economy  that last year grew at
the slowest pace since 1999, as one of the highest bad-debt
levels in  Southeast Asia  crimped credit to businesses.  Lenders with bad-debt ratios of 3 percent and above will be
required to sell their non-performing loans to the asset
management company, according to a May 22 government statement.
The company will have an initial registered capital of 500
billion dong ($24 million) and be overseen by the central bank.  The asset management firm is expected to resolve about 100
trillion dong of bad debt, Vu Viet Ngoan, chairman of the
National Financial Supervisory Commission, said last month. It
will aim to clear 40 trillion dong to 70 trillion dong of non-performing loans this year, Governor Binh said on May 30.  Vietnam ’s banks reported bad debt made up 4.51 percent of
total loans as of the end of March, Deputy Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc said on May 20. That figure compares with the central
bank’s estimate of 7.8 percent at the end of 2012.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  