-- Virtual Currency, EU Rulebook, U.K.-EU Clash: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-06-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/virtual-currency-eu-rulebook-u-k-eu-clash-compliance.html
Transactions within virtual
economies or using virtual currencies may produce taxable income
and the U.S. Internal Revenue Service should find low-cost ways
to make taxpayers aware of compliance risks, according to a 
report  by the Government Accountability Office.  The IRS has agreed with the recommendation, according to
the GAO.  “Virtual economies and currencies pose various tax
compliance risks, but the extent of actual tax noncompliance is
unknown,” the GAO said in its  report .  Compliance Policy  EU Nations Clinch Deal on Markets Law, Irish EU Presidency Says  European Union nations brokered a deal on a wide-ranging
overhaul of the bloc’s financial market rulebook that seeks to
prevent flash crashes and stop banks building up huge hidden
risks.  Ambassadors from the EU’s 27 nations reached an agreement
on the more-than 300-page rulebook at a meeting yesterday in
Brussels, according to an e-mailed statement by Ireland, which
holds the EU’s rotating presidency.  The plans, which must be agreed on with the European
Parliament to take effect, would also toughen oversight of high-frequency trading, curb speculation with commodity derivatives,
and push more transactions onto regulated platforms.  Separately, the U.K. said that giving a European Union
agency emergency powers to ban some securities trades may be
illegal -- in the country’s latest clash over EU decision-making
after failing to derail curbs on banker bonuses.  Britain said draft EU rules that were endorsed by
governments yesterday may cede too many powers to the European
Securities and Markets Authority, according to a document
setting out the U.K.’s stance, obtained by Bloomberg News.  Britain, which lacks a veto on financial laws, has often
found itself on the defensive in EU discussions on financial
regulation.  The latest clash concerns plans to revamp the EU’s Markets
in Financial Instruments Directive, or Mifid. While the overhaul
foresees giving broader powers to ESMA, the Paris-based agency
could only use them as a last resort if there was a threat to
the EU’s financial stability, and if national regulators were
unwilling or unable to act.  Ambassadors for the EU’s 27 nations reached a deal on the
Mifid law yesterday, setting up negotiations with the European
Parliament on the final version of the text. Under yesterday’s
deal, exchanges will be obliged to share their trade data with
clearinghouses owned by other operators. The accord allows this
access to be refused if there are signals that it could pose a
threat to financial stability.  Lawmakers at the European Parliament must agree on the
draft Mifid law before it can take effect.  EU Banks Face Targets for Loss-Absorbing Debt in U.K.-Dutch Plan  Large European Union  banks  would be forced to meet minimum
targets for issuing debt and other liabilities that could be
written down by regulators in a crisis, under a proposal by the
U.K.,  Netherlands  and  Finland .  The three countries are urging other EU states to insert
the minimum-target levels into draft rules for imposing losses
on failing lenders’ creditors, according to a document obtained
by Bloomberg News. The targets would apply to banks identified
by regulators as systemically important, while minimum rules for
smaller banks would be drawn up by national regulators.  Systemic banks should be forced to issue loss-absorbing
securities whose value is either equivalent to 15 percent of
their risk-weighted assets or 10 percent of their total capital
and liabilities, according to the document, dated June 17.
Regulators could choose which number to apply.  The EU’s 27 governments are racing to meet an end-June
deadline to agree on the bank-failure plans, which leaders have
said will be a first step toward more ambitious moves to
centralize  bank  interventions in the 17-nation euro area.  Nations have clashed over key aspects of the law. Finance
ministers will meet in Luxembourg on June 21 in a bid to thrash
out a deal.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Ex-UBS Trader Hayes Said to Face U.K. Libor Charge This Week  Tom Hayes, the former  UBS (UBSN)  AG derivatives trader at the
center of a global investigation into manipulation of benchmark
interest rates, may face criminal charges in the U.K. as soon as
this week, two people familiar with the investigation said.  Hayes may be charged by the U.K. Serious Fraud Office with
conspiring to rig the London interbank offered rate, said the
people, who requested anonymity because the probe isn’t public.
Hayes has already been charged in the U.S., which is running a
parallel criminal probe.  Hayes was arrested in a U.K. criminal investigation on Dec.
11 and charged by the U.S. Justice Department the following day.
The U.S. charge was made public on Dec. 19, the same day UBS was
fined a record $1.5 billion by U.S., British and Swiss
regulators for trying to rig Libor and similar benchmarks.  Hayes joined UBS in 2006 and worked at the Swiss lender
until 2009, when he joined  Citigroup Inc. (C)  He was dismissed by
Citigroup less than a year later for involvement in suspected
rate-rigging, a person with knowledge of the matter said in
October. He worked at Edinburgh-based  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  from 2001 to 2003.  One of the highest-earning traders at UBS, Hayes generated
about $40 million in revenue for the bank in 2007, $80 million
in 2008 and $116 million in 2009 before he left to join
Citigroup, according to the on derivatives, according to the
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, one of the regulators
that have levied Libor fines. The CFTC didn’t identify Hayes by
name.  David Green, the director of the SFO, said June 5 that
“significant developments” in the case are coming by the end
of the quarter.  UBS spokesman Richard Morton and SFO spokesman David Jones
declined to comment. Hayes’s London lawyer, Lydia Jonson, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message and e-mail requesting
comment. The Wall Street Journal reported the possible charges
earlier yesterday.  Global regulators have fined UBS,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and RBS
about $2.5 billion in the past year for distorting Libor and
similar benchmarks. At least a dozen firms remain under
investigation around the world. Last week,  Singapore ’s monetary
authority censured 20 banks for attempting to fix interest rate
levels and ordered them to set aside as much as $9.6 billion.  For more, click here.  Interviews  Levitt Says SEC Money Market Plan to ‘Scare Investors’  Arthur Levitt, former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, said the agency’s plan to regulate money
market funds will see investors “rush to the doors.” Levitt
talked with  Tom Keene  and Michael McKee on Bloomberg Radio’s
“ Bloomberg Surveillance .”  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  Liberty Mutual Hires Citigroup’s Dowling for Public Affairs  Liberty Mutual Holding Co., the third-largest seller of
property-casualty coverage in the U.S., hired Colin Dowling to
lead its public-affairs office in  Washington  as policymakers
weigh capital standards and laws on terrorism protection.  Dowling joins from Citigroup Inc., where he was a managing
director running state and local government-affairs programs,
according to a Business Wire statement yesterday from Boston-based Liberty Mutual.  U.S. and international lawmakers are scrutinizing the
balance sheets of the largest financial companies as they seek
to avoid a repeat of the 2008 rescues required of banks and
insurers. Policyholder-owned Liberty Mutual, which didn’t take a
bailout from the U.S. Treasury Department, said its government-relations group is also evaluating possible changes in laws
about taxes, trade and terrorism.  Mark Costiglio, a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup,
declined to comment on the move.  Murton to Take Role of New FDIC Director of Complex Institutions  Arthur J. Murton will take over as director of the Office
of Complex Financial Institutions at the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. on July 28, the office said in the e-mailed
statement.  Murton will replace James Wigand, who plans to retire,
according to the statement. Wigand will serve in the office of
the chairman as a senior adviser until Sept. 30.  The FDIC also appointed Diane Ellis as director of the
Division of Insurance and Research. Her appointment also will
become effective July 28. She’s currently deputy director for
financial risk management and research in the Division of
Insurance and Research.  Top Finra Regulator Resigns After Word of Bingo Fraud Is Leaked  A top official for the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority resigned after the agency was informed he was indicted
for felony theft and charitable bingo fraud in 1993, the year he
joined the agency.  Mitchell C. Atkins, a senior vice president who managed
Finra’s work in 11 states, quit after spending 20 years with the
brokerage industry self-regulator and its predecessor. A
Wisconsin broker who was the target of enforcement actions
overseen by Atkins wrote Finra about the indictment on May 21.  Nancy Condon, a Finra spokeswoman, confirmed that Atkins,
42, resigned. She declined to answer other questions, including
when he resigned and whether the regulator knew about his
indictment before he was hired. Atkins didn’t return a phone
message seeking comment.  Atkins joined the National Association of Securities
Dealers, Finra’s predecessor, in 1993, according to a statement
released when he took over the organization’s Florida office. He
oversaw a staff of 160 people regulating 850 brokerages,
according to his Finra  biography .  David Evansen, a Wisconsin-based broker who is appealing a
Finra decision to bar him from the industry, said Atkins’s past
probably would disqualify him from working in the brokerage
industry.  Atkins and his father, Wilbur D. Atkins Jr., were indicted
and charged with felony theft and charitable bingo fraud in
March 1993 for misusing the proceeds of bingo games, according
to a copy of the indictment obtained from the Supreme Court of
Louisiana. He eventually pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor and did
community service. His father was disbarred for his role in the
matter, according to the Louisiana Attorney Disciplinary Board.  Evansen said he looked into Atkins’s past after he decided
Atkins and his staff weren’t adequately considering a case
against him. Finra banned Evansen from the industry, according
to a record available on its website. Evansen, who was based in
South Florida at the time, contends that the discipline was
retaliation for a whistle-blower complaint he made about a large
brokerage and clearing firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  