-- Votorantim Cimentos Said to Suspend $3.7 Billion IPO
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-06-18T20:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/votorantim-cimentos-said-to-suspend-3-7-billion-ipo.html
Votorantim Cimentos SA (VEBM11) ,  Brazil ’s
biggest cement producer, suspended an initial public offering of
as much as $3.7 billion, according to two people familiar with
the decision.  The company postponed the share sale because of market
conditions, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the decision hasn’t been officially announced.
Votorantim Cimentos’s press office in Sao Paulo declined to
comment on the IPO.  Volatility in stock and currency markets has increased
since the company started its promotional tour for investors
earlier this month, making it impossible to price the units,
each of which represent three shares, within the range of 16
reais ($7.34) to 19 reais Votorantim Cimentos was seeking, one
of the people said. The company isn’t in a rush, the person
said.  The Brazilian stock exchange had net outflows of 5.1
billion reais in foreign investments this month, according to
BM&FBovespa SA. Foreigners typically acquire more than 50
percent of Brazilian IPOs.  Votorantim’s decision was probably the result of stock-market deterioration caused by Brazil’s weak economic growth,
rising inflation and government interventionism, Felipe Rocha,
an analyst at brokerage Omar Camargo, said by phone from
Curitiba.  Stock Drop  The benchmark Ibovespa index fell 19 percent this year, as
economists lowered their estimates for gross domestic product.
The economy expanded 0.9 percent in 2012, capping the slowest
two-year expansion in a decade.  “All of this has made investors so concerned and cautious
this year,” Camargo said. “Brazil’s image is so hurt right
now.”  Votorantim Cimentos, based in  Sao Paulo , and its parent
company, Votorantim Participacoes SA, said in a May 29
regulatory filing that they would offer 400 million units for
listing in Sao Paulo or their equivalent in American depositary
receipts in  New York . The company had planned to use the
proceeds for expansion outside Brazil and potential
acquisitions.  It’s the first IPO to be postponed in Brazil this year,
after eight initial share sales were suspended or scrapped last
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Companies have raised
$7.3 billion in IPOs in Brazil this year, compared with $1.8
billion for all of last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  