-- Wells Fargo Sold Risky Program as Safe, Lawyer Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 2013-06-18T17:46:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/wells-fargo-sold-risky-program-as-safe-lawyer-says.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  marketed a risky
securities-lending program as safe and cost institutional
investors millions of dollars in losses, a lawyer said at the
start of trial.  “Securities lending was represented by Wells Fargo to be a
minimal or no-risk investment,” Mike Ciresi, a lawyer for Blue
Cross Blue Shield of Minnesota and 11 other plaintiffs, said
today in his opening statement in federal court in St. Paul.  The case is one of  at least five  against Wells Fargo over
its securities lending. The suits were brought in Minnesota,
where Wells Fargo’s securities-lending program was located. The
San Francisco-based bank lost the first to go to trial in 2010,
when a state court jury awarded  Minnesota Workers’ Compensation
Reinsurance Association  and three charitable foundations about
$30 million. That judgment was upheld on appeal.  Wells Fargo is scheduled for a third trial on the same
claims from different plaintiffs in September, brought on behalf
of a class of about 100 institutional investors. Two other cases
are also pending in federal court, including one by  Minnesota 
Life Insurance Co. seeking $40 million in damages.  The trial before U.S. District Judge Donovan W. Frank in
St. Paul covers allegations from Blue Cross Blue Shield of
Minnesota, the El Paso County Retirement Plan and 10 other
nonprofit groups seeking reimbursement of losses plus punitive
damages. A jury of eight women and four men was selected
yesterday.  Custodial Accounts  Under the program, Wells Fargo held its clients’ securities
in custodial accounts and would make temporary loans of these
securities to brokers. The brokers would use these securities to
support their trading activities, such as short sales and option
contracts. The clients “had the right to recall their loaned
securities at any time, for any reason,” according to the
complaint. The brokers borrowing the securities posted
collateral, primarily cash.  “Wells Fargo promised to invest the cash in conservative
investments, which Wells Fargo repeatedly represented would be
‘high-grade money market instruments’ where the ‘prime
considerations’ would be ‘safety of principal and liquidity,’”
Blue Cross said in court papers filed Sept. 11.  ‘Heavily Invested”  Wells Fargo, they claim, “heavily invested” the
collateral in risky or highly illiquid securities, such as
structured investment vehicles and mortgage-backed assets.
Instead of gaining a small profit, the investors lost money,
according to the lawsuit.  Wells Fargo engaged in “systematic, intentional and
unlawful conduct -- including breaches of fiduciary duty,
breaches of contract, and fraud -- in a multibillion-dollar
securities-lending program,” the plaintiffs said in the
complaint.  The alleged misconduct included “a pattern of improper
investments in risky securities,” failure to disclose material
information about the investments to the plaintiffs, and a
coverup of wrongful actions, the plaintiffs said. They said
Wells Fargo continued to pursue the investments as they began to
falter.  “Wells Fargo promised a safe and small return to help
offset the fees the bank charged as custodian and safekeeper of
clients’ assets,” Ciresi told the jury today.  Wells Fargo has denied the claims, blaming any losses on
the financial crisis.  ‘Highly Rated’  “The allegations made by the plaintiffs are without
merit,” Laura Fay, a spokeswoman for the bank, said in an e-mailed statement. “The investments made by Wells Fargo on
behalf of clients in the securities-lending program were in
accordance with investment guidelines and were highly rated and
suitable at the time of purchase.”  The company sold the majority of its securities-lending
program to Citigroup Inc. in 2011, Fay said. Wells Fargo remains
liable for any damages sought in the lawsuits, she said.  The case is Blue Cross Blue Shield of Minnesota v. Wells
Fargo Bank, 11-cv-02529, U.S. District Court, District of
Minnesota ( St. Paul ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Hawkins in Minneapolis at  hawkins@visi.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  