-- Western Sees Half-Point Yield Jump Easing Drought: China Credit
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-06-18T03:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/western-sees-half-point-yield-jump-easing-drought-china-credit.html
Chinese high-grade companies may
have to pay half a percentage point higher than current yield
premiums to revive dollar-denominated bond sales amid the
longest pause since February, Western Asset Management Co. said.  The two-week hiatus comes as average yields on Chinese debt
in the U.S. currency soared last week to an 11-month high of
6.03 percent, the most among the major Asian nations tracked by
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  indexes . Borrowers from  China  and Hong Kong
have still sold $44.2 billion of dollar bonds since Dec. 31,
accounting for a record 54 percent of regional issuance in the
busiest first half for any year in figures compiled by Bloomberg
dating back to 1999.  “Chinese companies will continue to take the lion’s share
of bond sales this year because the need for funds continues to
be quite large and liquidity onshore is tightening,” said
Desmond Soon, a Singapore-based fund manager at Western Asset,
which managed $459.5 billion as of March 31. Still, “there will
be a significant drop-off in sales until companies acknowledge
they need to offer investors a fairer price.”  China’s dollar bonds have erased this year’s gains amid
signs the Federal Reserve plans to rein in the supply of cash. A
measure of capital inflows into the world’s second-largest
economy fell to a six-month low in May just as Premier Li Keqiang tightens control on lending to curb a property bubble.  China Huaneng  Investors may demand credit spreads on Chinese investment-grade debt that are 40 to 50 basis points wider than current
levels if risk aversion continues, according to Soon.  The premium to hold Chinese corporate notes with a BBB-score or higher from Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings Ltd.,
or the equivalent Baa3 from Moody’s Investors Service, climbed
to 212 basis points on June 14, matching the highest in nine
months, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. The
spread on speculative-grade company bonds jumped to a near six-month high of 784 basis points, the data show.  No Chinese companies are currently marketing dollar bonds.
The most recent offering was on June 4, when China Huaneng Group
Corp., which isn’t rated by the major assessors, sold $400
million of notes, data tracked by Bloomberg show. The 3.375
percent coupon on the electricity generator’s debt due June 2018
compares with a rate of 13.875 percent on five-year notes sold
in November by  China Aoyuan Property Group Ltd. (3883) , which holds a
B2 score from Moody’s, five levels below investment-grade.  Limited Demand  The extra premium investors demand to hold China Huaneng’s
securities over government debt is 268 basis points compared
with a sale spread of 240 basis points, Bloomberg-compiled
prices show.  “Companies are refraining from selling at this point
because there won’t be major investor demand in the current
environment,” said Raymond Chia, the Singapore-based deputy
head of credit research for Asia fixed-income at Schroder
Investment Management Ltd., which oversaw more than $359 billion
as of March 31.  A JPMorgan index tracking Chinese company bonds in the U.S.
currency has posted a 1.65 percent loss this year as of June 14,
compared with a 1.03 percent  decline  for a gauge tracking debt
by firms in Asia outside  Japan .  ‘China-Dominated’  Even with the recent slowdown in bond sales, Chinese firms
raised more than half of the $82.3 billion in issuance from the
region in 2013, up from a 42 percent share last year, according
to Bloomberg-compiled data.  Nomura Holdings Inc. predicts China will lead a revival in
Asian corporate bond sales, which the Japanese lender expects to
rise to about $140 billion by Dec. 31, according to Pradeep Mohinani, the bank’s Hong Kong-based global head of emerging
market corporate credit analysis.  “With bank liquidity being generally quite tight, we’re
expecting issuance to remain high within the Asian dollar
space,” Mohinani said in a June 10 interview. “It’ll still be
very China-dominated for sure.”  The cost to lock in short-term borrowing rates in China, as
measured by the one-year swap contract, jumped to 3.97 percent
on June 18, the highest since September 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 22 basis points more than the
five-year interest-rate swap.  Growth Forecasts  Five-year credit-default swaps insuring sovereign debt
against non-payment have risen 24 basis points this year and
were at 90.5 basis points on June 17, according to CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. The swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Economic expansion in China has held below 8 percent for
the past four quarters, the first time that has happened in at
least 20 years. The World Bank lowered its 2013 growth forecast
for the nation to 7.7 percent last week from 8.4 percent, Morgan
Stanley cut to 7.6 percent from 8.2 percent and UBS trimmed to
7.5 percent from 7.7 percent.  China’s Finance Ministry failed to sell all of the debt
offered at an auction for the first time in 23 months last week
owing to the cash squeeze. The ministry sold 9.53 billion  yuan 
($1.56 billion) of 273-day bills, less than the 15 billion yuan
target, according to Chinabond, the nation’s biggest bond-clearing house.  Lenovo Group  Corporations in Asia’s biggest economy will increasingly
have to turn to dollar bonds as an alternative source of cash,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  “With bank liquidity tighter, bigger companies can get
loans but it will be difficult for small and medium-sized
enterprises,” said Crystal Zhao, a Hong Kong-based fixed-income
analyst at HSBC. “Issuing bonds offshore is still a very
attractive option for companies unable to get strong support
from banks.”  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  said in a May 31 exchange filing it
intends to sell notes in the U.S. currency. The company was
planning to meet investors in Hong Kong,  Singapore  and  London 
from June 3, a person familiar with the matter said May 31.
Chief Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing  said on June 7 the world’s
second-biggest maker of personal computers will use proceeds
from its possible dollar offering to fund the growth of its
consumer business.  Sales Emerging  “There has been a new-issue discount for many of the Asian
deals that printed in the first half of 2013, including those
out of China,” Aaron Russell-Davison, the Singapore-based
global head of bond syndicate at Standard Chartered Plc, said.
“That ability to price through existing curves is currently off
the table, and there will certainly be an additional price
premium when sales resume.”  Junk-rated  Central China Real Estate Ltd. (832)  sold $400 million
of notes due June 2018 on May 22 with a coupon of 6.5 percent,
Bloomberg-compiled data show. Yields on its October 2015 bond
offered in 2010 climbed to 8.45 percent on June 3, the highest
this year, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Citic Pacific Ltd., a steelmaker whose shares have slumped
27 percent over the past 12 months, offered 6.375 percent
securities due in April 2020 in March. The yield on its April
2021 debt jumped to 7.26 percent last week, the highest in a
year, Bloomberg prices show.  As Treasury yields retreat from their highest levels this
year, signs of potential dollar bond sales are emerging.  Poly
Real Estate Group Co. (600048) , which develops and sells residential
homes in China and holds the third-lowest investment-grade
rating of BBB+ from S&P, planned to meet investors from
yesterday for a possible dollar offering, a person familiar with
the matter said on June 14.  ‘Hostile Neighborhood’  Pacnet Ltd. also may offer U.S. currency notes due 2018
after June 21, following investor meetings in Singapore, Hong
Kong, London and the U.S., a separate person said on June 10.
The operator of undersea phone and Internet cables in Asia is
rated B by Fitch, five levels below investment-grade.  “I expect a stabilization of U.S. Treasuries for a few
days would mean the starting gun is about to get fired,” Luc Froehlich, a Hong Kong-based portfolio manager with Manulife
Asset Management’s Asia fixed-income team, said in an e-mail
interview on June 14.  “The primary market is likely to remain an unwelcoming and
hostile neighborhood,” he added. “Only the strongest and the
ones ready to pay up for protecting their books are likely to be
witnessed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  