-- Whole Milk Powder Gains at Auction for First Time in Two Months
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-06-18T20:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/whole-milk-powder-gains-at-auction-for-first-time-in-two-months.html
Whole milk powder auction prices
rose for the first time in two months amid expectations of a
modest increase in  New Zealand  production in the second half of
the year.  Powder for delivery across all contracts through December
rose 2.2 percent, according to a trade-weighted index posted on
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.’s  GlobalDairyTrade  website. The
average winning price rose to $4,668 a metric ton.  Fonterra expects about 2 percent growth in New Zealand milk
collection in the 2013-14 season, according to a June 10
statement. Slowing global milk supply suggests powder prices
across all contracts will remain around current levels until the
end of the year, Chief Executive Officer Theo Spierings said in
a May 29 interview.  Prices surged to a record in April as a drought declared
across New Zealand’s entire  North Island  including Waikato
province, the country’s biggest milk producer, curbed collection.
The nation may receive near-normal rainfall through July, the
National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research said last
month.  Fonterra on May 29 said it expects to pay its farmers NZ$7
($5.61) a kilogram of milksolids in the 2013-14 season, up from
NZ$5.80 in the season that ended May 31.  Fonterra, which accounts for about a third of the global
trade in dairy products, sells whole, skim and butter-milk
powder, dried-milk fat, lactose, butter, cheese and casein at
its GlobalDairyTrade auctions. Casein is a protein found in milk.  Whole milk powder for August delivery fell 4.3 percent
while prices in all other contracts rose.  Prices for August delivery of butter milk powder also fell.
Milk fat, butter and skim milk powder prices for August delivery
increased, while cheddar, lactose, casein and milk protein
concentrate weren’t offered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  