-- Why Companies Shouldn’t Write Off India
-- B y   R a v i   V e n k a t e s a n
-- 2013-06-18T22:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/why-companies-shouldn-t-write-off-india.html
Asked late last year about the
market for  Apple Inc. (APPL)  products in India, Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook  more or less wrote off the huge country.  He blamed a “multilayer distribution structure” for making
it too hard to reach consumers beyond elites in cities such as
Mumbai and Bangalore.  Apple (AAPL)  would look elsewhere for growth: “In
the intermediate term there will be larger opportunities outside
there,” Cook said. Today, India -- with a  middle class  the size
of the U.S. population -- accounts for less than 1 percent of
Apple’s global sales.  By contrast, Samsung Electronics Co. saw plenty of
opportunity in the subcontinent. The Korean company invested
massively in its brand and distribution in India. Rather than
waiting for the country to become rich enough to buy top-end
smartphones such as the  S4 , Samsung developed and sold a range
of devices at different price points, some as cheap as $20. The
company now dominates one of the fastest-growing smartphone
markets in the world, outpacing not just Apple but  Nokia Oyj (NOK) ,
 BlackBerry (BBRY)  and others. Apple’s stock, meanwhile, has swooned.  I don’t mean to pick on Cook and Apple. Well-run and well-respected companies including  Sony Corp. (SNE) ,  Toyota Motor Corp. (TM) ,
 Daimler AG (DDAIF)  and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  have similarly missed
opportunities in India, writing it off as too poor, too corrupt,
too hard. Always a difficult market, India has lately become
even more challenging. Huge corruption scandals have virtually
paralyzed the Congress Party government. A sclerotic bureaucracy
and judicial system, primitive infrastructure and a gut-wrenching uncertainty around policies have killed any enthusiasm
for investment. Growth has  slowed  to less than 5 percent.  Moving On  Before, companies that were daunted by India focused on
 China , instead. Now, with the  Chinese economy  also shifting into
low gear, they are looking even further afield -- to Africa,
Indonesia, even Myanmar. In each place, they typically encounter
an initial burst in sales and enthusiasm. When that fades, they
look for the next hot emerging market.  Companies that decide to pass on India, however, are making
a big mistake. For one thing, they are leaving money on the
table. Faced with the same chaotic environment as Apple, not
just  Samsung (005930)  but companies such as  Unilever NV (UNA) ,  Schneider
Electric SA (SBGSY) , J.C. Bamford Excavators Ltd.,  Cummins Inc. (CMI) ,  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380)  and even  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  are thriving in India. The
country now accounts for one third of JCB’s global sales and
even more of its profit. Cummins derives 10 percent to 15
percent of its profit from the subcontinent.  Secondly, chaos and corruption are hardly unique to India.
They are a defining feature of most  emerging markets , and
companies that think they are going to have an easier ride
elsewhere are in for a rude surprise.  To succeed in any emerging market, companies have to
develop resilience. They have to learn to thrive in chaos. Where
better to do so than in  India ? The country has huge potential --
it’s already one of the world’s  top five economies  in
purchasing-parity terms -- as well as good managerial and
technical talent and reasonable institutions, which many smaller
countries lack. The lessons learned here can be applied across
the young, ambitious societies of the developing world.  The first thing to learn is to take a long-term approach to
the market. Firms such as Samsung, Cummins and McDonald’s were
willing to wait almost a decade to see a return on their
investments in local supply chains, local innovation capability
and deep distribution networks.  At the same time, foreign brands must develop products that
the local market wants and sell them at disruptive price points.
Engine manufacturer Cummins, for instance, confronted an
unforgiving market. Indian drivers routinely overload trucks,
dilute diesel with cheaper kerosene, fill their radiators with
muddy river water instead of coolant, and short out the
electronics by ignoring instructions. Yet they still expect the
engines to perform and to last as long as they do in the U.S.
And they are willing to pay only half as much for the
technology.  Frugal Engineering  When I led Cummins in India, we radically modified our
truck engines to withstand tremendous abuse and to cost much
less, and the company is now thriving in what has become the
world’s second-largest truck market in unit terms. Success in
India helped Cummins develop expertise in  frugal engineering , in
managing joint ventures, and in creating a capable, low-cost
supply chain. All those skills are now serving the company well
globally.  Companies such as Cummins, JCB and Samsung don’t wait for
the market to resemble what they are familiar with; instead they
adapt to the realities of the market. This is a critical point
lost on multinationals that see India as simply one more sales
outlet for their products. Those companies wait for policies,
regulation, infrastructure or the consumer to evolve to fit
their well-tested global models. “We’ll be back” is the common
refrain. “We’ll be back when India respects patents,” say
pharmaceutical-company CEOs. Others have different benchmarks:
“When Indians stop pirating,” “when India has more efficient
distribution,” “when more Indians start eating meat.”  This approach is risky, not prudent. It will be a long time
before India looks like a developed market or even a terribly
welcoming place. It may even evolve in a fundamentally different
direction: Indian consumers, for instance, are bypassing
personal computers in favor of smartphones and the  mobile
Internet . They are leapfrogging from a no-PC world to a post-PC
world. Where does that leave companies such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,
 Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  or  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ?  By the time companies turn their attention back to India, a
competitor will probably have taken an unassailable lead. This
is the position that automobile makers, including Toyota,
 Volkswagen AG (VLKAY)  and  Nissan Motor Co. (NSANY)  are in; they are now locked
in an expensive battle to claw back market share from  Suzuki
Motor Corp. (7269) , Hyundai and  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM)  This is what
Caterpillar faces against the likes of JCB and Cummins, and it
is what  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  is up against in competing with
 Unilever. (UN)   Companies shouldn’t be beguiled by the romance of the next
hot market. To thrive in the 21st century, getting past India’s
19th-century problems is a critical first step.  (Ravi Venkatesan is the former chairman of Microsoft India
and Cummins India. His book, “Conquering the Chaos: Win in
India, Win Everywhere,” is out this week from Harvard Business
Review Press.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ravi Venkatesan at  ravi_venkatesan@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net  