-- Women May Get Into Augusta Easier Than Energy CEO Role
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-06-19T15:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/women-may-get-into-augusta-easier-than-energy-ceo-role.html
Women may have better odds of
getting a membership at Augusta National Golf Club than becoming
the chief executive officer of an energy company in the  Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   With its decision to name Lynn J. Good as its first female
CEO,  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  will be the largest U.S. energy business
by market value led by a woman. Good will be only the second
female energy leader on the index, raising the amount to 0.4
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Augusta
National, home of the annual  Masters Tournament , admitted its
first two female members last year, accounting for 0.7 percent
of an estimated 300-member roster.  While energy companies have long been led by engineers or
lawyers, professions that were dominated by men, “over the last
five to 10 years you’ve seen more women move into leadership,”
Good, 54, said in a phone interview yesterday. “You see more
women in the CFO ranks. It’s an evolution.”  Becoming chief financial officer, as Good was at Duke, may
be one path to leadership for females in the energy industry.
Women currently serve as CFOs at some of  North America ’s largest
energy producers, including  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Occidental Petroleum
Corp., Marathon Oil Corp. and Encana Corp.  “Energy companies are way behind,”  Terry O’Neill ,
president of the National Organization for Women, said today in
a telephone interview. “You are seeing the impact of the
extraordinary exclusion of women and girls from science,
technology, engineering and math professions.” Women more often
rise through financial professions, she said.  ‘Macho Environments’  A CFO gets “great expertise to become a CEO so long as you
show that you’re not doing just the day-to-day numbers but you
are really looking at all the possibilities of how a company can
grow,” said Susan Stautberg, co-chairman of Woman Corporate
Directors, a global association of female board members.  There were 54 women serving as CFO of S&P 500 companies in
January, up from 40 a year earlier, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  While energy companies have trailed other industries in
appointing female CEOs, the number of women directors has risen
in energy board rooms in Calgary and Houston, Stautberg said.  “Energy companies, like many heavy industries, were very
male-oriented, very macho environments,” said Valerie Newell,
chairman and managing director of Riverpoint Capital Management
Inc. in Cincinnati, who supervised Good at her first accounting
job at Arthur Andersen LLP. “It’s important to make sure you
are very technically competent.”  Good has been CFO for Duke since July 2009, after serving
in that role at Cinergy, an Ohio-based utility that Duke
acquired in 2006. She has followed  Jim Rogers , who was chairman
and CEO of Cinergy and took on those roles at Duke. She will
succeed Rogers next month as he steps down.  Good Salary  In her new role, her base salary will be $1.2 million and
she can make $8.1 million if she meets short- and long-term
corporate targets in her first year. Good made $3.09 million
last year and Rogers was paid $8.73 million in total
compensation.  Rogers agreed to step down as chairman and CEO by the end
of the year as part of a settlement with North Carolina
regulators investigating a leadership change hours after the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based company bought  Progress Energy .
An independent board member will be chosen as the next chairman,
the company said yesterday.  “It’s more challenging when it is a male-dominated
industry like energy, which makes her and this accomplishment so
unbelievably remarkable,” said Newell.  Good was among the first women at  Arthur Andersen  assigned
to audit a Cincinnati-based utility that Duke later bought,
Newell said. “She just kept climbing the ladder.”  Integrating Objectives  The mother of two teenage sons, who counts golfing and
travel among her hobbies, Good said her role at Duke was never
just about reporting the numbers and financing the company.
Instead, she helped integrate Duke’s financial, operational and
strategic objectives.  “If you think through all the priorities of Duke over the
past 12 to 24 months, I’ve been involved with all of them,”
said Good.  Good joins  Sempra Energy (SRE)  Chairman and CEO Debra Reed on the
short list of female energy company leaders on the S&P index,
which has 74 energy-related businesses.  “I’ve spent my entire 35-year career in the  energy
industry  and early on I had few role models,” Reed said. “But
I believe the old paradigm is changing.”  Women are running several smaller U.S. utilities that
aren’t part of the index, including PNM Resources Inc., Alliant
Energy Corp. and Hawaiian Electric Industries Inc.  ‘New Normal’  Utilities may have advanced women to top leadership roles
more rapidly than other industries because as regulated
monopolies, they tended to face government pressure for
diversity among directors, said Ilene H. Lang, CEO of Catalyst
Inc. a New York-based advisory company for female business
leaders.  Women account for 23 percent of utility CEOs in the Fortune
1000, according to data compiled by Catalyst. That compares with
4.3 percent among all companies, Lang said.  “This is the new normal,” Lang said of Good’s promotion.
“It’s not your father’s energy company anymore.”  Forbes Magazine’s annual ranking of powerful women has only
one from the energy field, Maria das Gracas Foster, who was
appointed the head of state-controlled Petroleo Brasileiro SA
last year. Lynn Elsenhans, the former CEO of Sunoco Inc., fell
off the list after leaving the company last year.  Ginni Rometty, who ranks 12th on the current Forbes
powerful women list, became chairman and CEO of International
Business Machines Corp. last year. Her appointment prompted
questions about whether she would be invited to join Augusta
National, located in Augusta,  Georgia , which has historically
asked the CEO of IBM to join its ranks.  The first two female members invited were  Condoleezza Rice 
and Darla Moore, the club’s chairman said in August. The club
declined to comment on its membership yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  