-- WTI Crude Rises to Nine-Month High on Syrian Conflict
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-06-18T20:50:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/wti-crude-rises-as-syrian-conflict-bolsters-concern.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
climbed to a nine-month high as the Syrian conflict bolstered
concern that the flow of supplies from the  Middle East  may be
disrupted and on signs that economic growth is accelerating.  Futures advanced 0.7 percent to the highest settlement
since Sept. 14. Russian President  Vladimir Putin  agreed to sign
a statement at the Group of Eight summit calling for the
establishment of a “transitional government” in Syria. Reports
showed that permits to build single-family homes in the U.S.
rose to a five-year high in May. WTI’s discount to Brent oil
traded in  London  shrank to the narrowest level since 2011.  “Geopolitical concerns are on the minds of investors and
continue to push prices higher,” said  John Kilduff , a partner
at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses
on energy. “In addition to the tensions in the Middle East,
there’s positive economic news. The economic outlook is
improving and that’s supportive for oil.”  WTI crude for July delivery increased 67 cents to settle at
$98.44 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. The volume
of all futures traded was 11 percent below the 100-day average
at 4:34 p.m.  Prices were little changed after the  American Petroleum
Institute  reported that U.S. inventories fell 4.29 million
barrels last week to 392 million. The July contract rose 72
cents to $98.49 a barrel at 4:33 p.m. The contract traded at
$98.40 before the report was released at 4:30 p.m.  Brent Futures  Brent oil for August settlement climbed 55 cents, or 0.5
percent, to end the session at $106 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the highest settlement since
April 9. Volume for all contracts was 38 percent below the 100-day average. The European benchmark grade shrank to a $7.35
premium to WTI based on August contracts, the narrowest using
closing prices since January 2011.  U.S. equities increased for a second day. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.8 percent, and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  advanced 0.9 percent.  Backed by Lebanon’s Shiite militia Hezbollah and aid from
Iran and  Russia , Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s troops have
shifted the momentum of the civil war with an offensive against
the rebels. President  Barack Obama  ratcheted up U.S. support for
the opposition last week with a decision to send them arms.  Russian Statement  Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov told
reporters at the summit in Lough Erne,  Northern Ireland , that
the G-8 communique on Syria won’t set a deadline for forming a
new body with executive powers. Ryabkov said statements from the
U.S. and U.K. that the Syrian government had used chemical
weapons were “groundless” and warned that providing arms to
the Syrian rebels will be a major blow to the chances for peace.  The Middle East accounted for 33 percent of global crude
output in 2012, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of
World Energy. Syrian oil exports, which were never among the
highest in the region, have almost completely ended.  Syria 
borders Iraq, the second-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Iranian President-elect Hassan Rohani said yesterday that
he’ll make the country’s nuclear program more transparent as he
seeks to ease tension with the U.S. and reduce “brutal”
sanctions. The U.S. and its allies suspect Iran is seeking to
build nuclear weapons, while the Islamic republic insists its
atomic program is to generate electricity.  Applications to build one-family homes in the U.S. rose 1.3
percent to a 622,000 pace, the fastest since May 2008, the
Commerce Department reported today in  Washington . Housing  starts 
climbed 6.8 percent to a 914,000 annualized rate.  Low Inflation  The cost of living in the U.S. rose less than forecast in
May, signaling inflation remains under control. The  consumer
price index  was up 0.1 percent after falling 0.4 percent in
April, the Labor Department reported today in Washington. The
median forecast of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for an increase of 0.2 percent.  The lack of inflation gives Federal Reserve policy makers,
meeting today and tomorrow in Washington, more leeway to address
unemployment as they consider whether to dial down their record
monetary stimulus.  “ Oil prices  are solid,” said Jason Schenker, president of
Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy
consultant. “Today’s numbers show that we’re looking at modest
economic growth without inflation. The Fed won’t have to reign
in stimulus since inflation is under control.”  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in  Mannheim ,
 Germany , said its  index  of German investor and analyst
expectations, which aims to predict economic developments six
months in advance, increased to 38.5 from 36.4 in May.  U.S. Stockpiles  The U.S. government will probably report tomorrow that
crude  supplies  fell last week as refineries bolstered operating
rates, a Bloomberg survey showed. Stockpiles declined 500,000
barrels, according to the median of 12 analyst estimates in a
survey conducted before the release of Energy Information
Administration data. Refinery operation rates probably increased
0.5 percentage point to 88 percent.  “The oil market remains vulnerable,” said  Michael Lynch ,
president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts . “We have ample supplies and weak demand, which
isn’t a good recipe for $100 oil.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
August was 18.6 percent, compared with 18.9 percent yesterday,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 475,711
contracts as of 4:35 p.m. It totaled 623,501 contracts
yesterday, 3 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.86 million contracts, down from the previous
session’s record 1.861 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  