-- Yahoo Received Up to 13,000 Data Requests From U.S. Agencies
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-18T18:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-18/yahoo-received-up-to-13-000-data-requests-from-u-s-authorities.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , the largest U.S. Web
portal, said it got as many as 13,000 requests for information
from U.S. law enforcement agencies, becoming the latest
technology company to detail government data collection.  The requests occurred in the six months ended May, with the
most common types related to fraud, homicides and criminal
investigations, Yahoo said in a  posting  on Tumblr. The company
said it can’t lawfully break out Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act requests, and it urged the U.S. government to
reconsider its stance on the issue.  Yahoo joins  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
in detailing thousands of warrants from government entities for
data. The companies have come under scrutiny since Edward Snowden, a computer technician who did work for the National
Security Agency, disclosed this month that the NSA is collecting
data under a U.S. government program code-named PRISM.  “We’ve worked hard over the years to earn our users’ trust
and we fight hard to preserve it,” Yahoo Chief Executive
Officer  Marissa Mayer  and General Counsel Ron Bell said in the
statement. “We will continually evaluate whether further
actions can be taken to protect the privacy of our users and our
ability to defend it.”  Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo said it plans to issue
its first global law-enforcement transparency report later this
year and will refresh it every six months with new statistics.  Secret Panel  PRISM gathers e-mails, videos and other private data of
foreign surveillance targets through arrangements that vary by
company, overseen by a secret panel of judges, according to
slides provided by Snowden to the Guardian and Washington Post
newspapers.  The three-decade-old FISA law lets intelligence agencies
monitor the communications of non-U.S. citizens reasonably
believed to be located outside the U.S. and involved in
terrorist activities or other crimes.  Apple, the world’s most-valuable technology company, said
it received as many as 5,000 requests for customer information
from authorities. Those requests covered between 9,000 and
10,000 accounts or devices, the company said in a  statement .  “Like several other companies, we have asked the U.S.
government for permission to report how many requests we receive
related to national security and how we handle them,” Apple
said in the statement earlier this week. “We have been
authorized to share some of that data, and we are providing it
here in the interest of transparency.”  Apple Response  Apple said it hadn’t heard of PRISM until June 6 when news
organizations asked it questions. Requests came from federal,
state and local authorities and included both criminal and
national security matters, it said. Police investigations into
crimes such as robbery were the most-common form of request,
Apple said.  Facebook, owner of the world’s most popular social-networking service got 9,000 to 10,000 requests and covered
between 18,000 and 19,000 accounts in the second half of last
year. The numbers demonstrated that only a “tiny fraction” of
the user base, which has grown to more than 1.1 billion, was
affected, the company said last week.  Microsoft got 6,000 to 7,000 requests, its legal executives
said in blog posts. The company said the data-security warrants
affected 31,000 to 32,000 consumer accounts.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s largest search engine,
hasn’t joined the recent wave of disclosures by technology
rivals. The company said last week that it was pushing
authorities to let it differentiate between varying types of
government requests.  “Our request to the government is clear: to be able to
publish aggregate numbers of national security requests,
including FISA disclosures, separately,” the company said in an
e-mailed statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  