-- ‘Dirt Cheap’ Pakistan Stocks Seen Rallying 15%, BMA Says
-- B y   N a w e e n   A .   M a n g i
-- 2012-05-09T23:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/-dirt-cheap-pakistan-stocks-seen-rallying-15-bma-says.html
Pakistan ’s  key  stock index, Asia’s
second-best performer this year, will probably climb 15 percent
by December as energy and housing demand boosts oil and cement
producers, according to BMA Asset Management Co.  The Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index may rally as high as
17,000 this year, Farrukh Hussain, chief investment officer of
Karachi-based BMA Asset, Pakistan’s second-biggest private money
manager, said in a May 7 interview. That would be the highest
level on record. The gauge closed at 14,613.59 yesterday. BMA’s
Pakistan Opportunities Fund, the nation’s only offshore, dollar-
based fund, returned 23 percent this year, beating 99 percent of
its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pakistan’s benchmark  stock index  has surged 29 percent this
year after the government eased rules on a capital-gains tax and
demand for energy and building materials bolstered company
earnings. The gauge, which slid 5.6 percent in 2011, is trading
at 7.3 times estimated earnings, the lowest valuation in  Asia ,
reflecting the country’s struggles to cope with militant attacks
and political instability.  “Stocks are dirt cheap compared to regional markets and by
any standard of the imagination,” Hussain said. “The change in
the capital-gains tax regime provided the much needed impetus
but the trigger this year is corporate earnings and market
fundamentals.”  Earnings Growth  Company profits in Pakistan will grow an average 20 percent
in the year ending June 30, said Hussain, who oversees about $97
million at BMA. Investors should buy fuel explorers, banks and
cement stocks, which will have profit growth of 20 to 25
percent, he said.  BMA’s Pakistan Opportunities Fund holds shares in  Pakistan
Oilfields Ltd. (POL) , the nation’s third-biggest energy explorer,
 Engro Corp. (ENGRO) , a maker of fertilizer, food and plastics, and  Lucky
Cement Ltd. (LUCK) , the country’s biggest producer of the building
material, Hussain said.  Pakistan Oilfields has gained 11 percent this year, Lucky
Cement 77 percent, and Engro 67 percent. The shares are trading
at less than 7 times estimated earnings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “This is the world’s sixth-most populous country and a
population of 180 million people who need housing, energy and
food,” Muddassar Malik, chief executive officer of BMA, said.  ‘Tough Call’  Malik in September 2010 predicted a rally in stocks after
Pakistan’s deadliest floods, which caused losses estimated by
the government at $7 billion. The Karachi 100 share index jumped
20 percent in the last three months of that year.  National elections scheduled for early next year may
increase political risks and limit gains in stocks, Qasim Shah,
head of international equity sales at Karachi-based Global
Securities Pakistan Ltd., said by e-mail on May 8.  The  Supreme Court  found Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani 
guilty of contempt in April for disobeying an order to reopen
corruption cases against President Asif Ali Zardari, escalating
a legal challenge to the leadership. Opposition parties are
pressing for earlier polls.  “It’s a really tough call,” said Shah. “The market might
slide in the second half of the year on the back of
macroeconomic concerns and political uncertainty.” The  Karachi
100 Index (KSE100)  may settle at the 14,000 level or even lower by year-
end, he said.  Pakistan’s benchmark gauge is the second-best performer
among Asian benchmark indexes tracked by Bloomberg this year,
only to be eclipsed by  Vietnam ’s VN Index, which has surged 39
percent.  Difficult Market  The stock  gauge’s  5.6 percent drop last year as the country
struggled to cope with floods and militant attacks helped drag
valuations to 5.73 times estimated earnings on Jan. 13, the
lowest level since March 2009. Militants have killed at least
35,000 people since 2006, according to government estimates.  “Pakistan is one of the most difficult markets in the
world but whether there’s been war, economic slowdown or
political turmoil, there’s double-digit growth in company
earnings,” said Malik.  The country’s central bank cut  interest rates  by 2
percentage points last year to spur growth after floods sapped
expansion, before pausing reductions in November. Floods in
August forced more than 1 million people from their homes,
according to government estimates. The country is also grappling
with its worst energy crisis with power blackouts of as long as
18 hours a day in major cities.  Trading volumes have surged since Jan. 21 when Pakistan
decided to ease rules on a capital-gains tax, exempting some
investors from declaring their source of income. Average daily
trading volume for the past three months almost tripled to 172
million shares from 61 million shares a year earlier, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s been unprecedented turbulence in Pakistan and we
don’t try to hide that,” Malik said. “But it’s also a story
that’s yet to be discovered.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naween A. Mangi in Karachi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 