-- Hulk-Size Jambox Might Annoy Neighbors: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-05-09T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/a-hulk-size-jambox-migh-annoy-neighbors-rich-jaroslovsky.html
You may already know about the
Jambox, the colorful, blackboard-eraser-size, toss-it-in-your-
bag-and-go wireless speaker for iPads, iPhones and other mobile
devices.  Now meet  Big Jambox . It’s a lot like the Jambox, only...
well, you get the picture. If it’s a little less fun than its
baby brother -- and, at $300, a hundred bucks more expensive --
it does a few more tricks too.  Big Jambox is from Jawbone, which is known for its line of
Bluetooth headsets and mobile accessories that combine advanced
electronics, ease of use and distinctive design. That
description applies precisely to Big Jambox, with its quick set-
up, easy-to-use controls and surprisingly full sound.  You can hold the regular Jambox in the palm of your hand.
Not so Big Jambox, unless you’ve got palms the size of the
 Incredible Hulk .  At 10 inches long, 3.1 inches wide and 3.6 inches tall,
it’s roughly the size of a football. Its weight, 2.7 pounds,
makes it easy to move from room to room or to toss into the back
seat for a picnic, less so if you’re thinking of taking it along
on a business trip. Jawbone says it will run for up to 15 hours
on a single charge.  Yves Behar  Big Jambox comes in black, white and red, each with its own
distinctive grill pattern. Designed by Yves Behar -- also
responsible for the  Peel  TV remote device and  New York  City’s
free  NYC Condoms  campaign -- its high styling practically
screams “Use me with Apple products!” Yet it eschews Apple’s
proprietary AirPlay format in favor of plain old Bluetooth.  There are tradeoffs in that decision. AirPlay speakers work
at longer range and tend to have better sound. But there are
benefits as well, in the ability to work with a broader range of
devices, including those running  Google (GOOG) ’s Android operating
system, and in portability. (AirPlay speakers only work over a
Wi-Fi network.) Moreover, the casual uses to which you’d
probably put Big Jambox aren’t ones where you’re likely to
demand audiophile quality.  Not that the sound is bad, by any means. I was able to fill
a significant chunk of Bloomberg’s  San Francisco  bureau --
sorry, colleagues! -- without distortion or vibration, as well
as at home, in both my living room and outside yard.  Aural Illusion  In addition, a feature called LiveAudio creates an illusion
of sound surrounding you, though I found it best when I was the
only person listening and could position the speaker just so, to
get the maximum effect.  LiveAudio also dampens the loudness. Luckily, you can
easily turn it on and off by simultaneously pushing the
increase- and decrease-volume controls.  Pairing Big Jambox is so easy you may want to do it again
and again. It remembers connections with up to eight devices.
Any two of those connections can be operational at the same
time, giving Jambox a leg up on other Bluetooth devices. So you
can share DJ duties at your next party.  I found the feature worked mostly as advertised; even in
mid-song, I was able to flip seamlessly between  Johnny Cash ’s
“A Boy Named Sue” streaming from an iPad and  Green Day ’s
“Boulevard of Broken Dreams” on an iPhone.  ‘Angry Birds’  Big Jambox is about more than music, though. You can
channel the sound effects from “Angry Birds” or your other
mobile games through it. I also used the included cable to plug
it into the audio port of a flat-screen TV, turning it into a
kind of portable sound bar that far surpassed the small speakers
crammed into the display.  Perhaps its most practical additional function is its
ability to act as a wireless two-way speaker for conference
calls. The orginal Jambox does this too, but Big Jambox provides
a significantly more satisfying experience, thanks to an
improved omnidirectional microphone. The sound quality isn’t up
to the level of a dedicated  Polycom (PLCM)  conference phone, but is
more than acceptable for casual use.  At $300, Big Jambox isn’t cheap. It costs the same and does
a lot of the same things as the SoundLink from Bose, a company
not exactly known for value pricing. But the Jambox’s longer
battery life, speakerphone functions and striking looks make it
a fun and flexible choice for portable audio.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on stage and
 Jason Harper  on cars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 