-- Activision Tops Views on ‘Call of Duty’; Outlook Misses
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-05-09T21:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/activision-tops-views-on-call-of-duty-outlook-misses.html
Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , the largest
video-game publisher, posted first-quarter sales and profit that
beat analysts’ estimates. Its forecast for this quarter and the
year were short of projections.  Net income fell 24 percent to $384 million, or 33 cents a
share, from $503 million, or 42 cents, a year earlier,  Santa
Monica , California-based Activision said today in a  statement .
Excluding items, profit of 6 cents beat the 4-cent average of 17
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Activision often issues conservative revenue and profit
guidance,  Michael Pachter , an analyst with Wedbush Securities in
 Los Angeles , said in an interview. In the past two years, the
company has exceeded  estimates  for profit in every quarter and
for sales in all but one, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  Adjusted first-quarter sales, excluding changes in deferred
revenue, totaled $587 million, beating estimates of $543.7
million. Total sales fell 19 percent to $1.17 billion.  Activision was unchanged at $12.40 at the close of trading
in  New York . The  stock  is also little changed this year.  This quarter, Activision sees profit of 10 cents a share,
excluding items, below the 16-cent average of analysts’
estimates. Adjusted revenue will be $805 million, less than
their forecasts of $813.3 million.  For the year, the company forecasts profit, excluding
items, of 95 cents a share on revenue of $4.53 billion. That
compares with analysts’ expectations for a 97-cent profit on
revenue of $4.56 billion.  ‘Call of Duty’  “Call of Duty” and its newest franchise, “Skylanders
Spyro’s Adventures,’ contributed to earnings in the latest
quarter, Bobby Kotick, chief executive officer, said in the
statement.  Activision benefits from online follow-on sales of new
content for games that go on sale at retail locations once a
year. The ‘‘Call of Duty Elite” online service had 2 million
paying members through March, an increase of 33 percent since
January, the company said.  Subscribers to Blizzard’s “World of Warcraft” online
multiplayer game held stable at 10.2 million, the company said
in a conference call, after releasing updated content. The
company lost almost 1 million users last summer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  