-- Mad Cow Is Reason to Change Rules, Not Swear Off Beef
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-09T23:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/mad-cow-is-reason-to-change-rules-not-swear-off-beef.html
The discovery last month of a case of
 mad-cow disease  in  California  could be taken as good news.  The cow in question was found at a rendering plant, where
spent animals are sent for processing into leather, soap,
cosmetics and pet food. Tests detected the illness before
slaughter. There was never any chance that meat from the cow
would enter the human food chain. Cattle futures prices, which
initially plunged, are higher now than before the announcement.  Agriculture officials say the animal was infected with an
unusual form of bovine spongiform encephalopathy, the formal
name for mad-cow disease, which they believe occurred
spontaneously. It wasn’t, we were assured, the result of giving
cows feed containing cattle brain and spinal-cord tissue, the
route that  infected  herds throughout the U.K. in the 1990s.
(People who eat meat from an infected cow can contract variant
 Creutzfeldt-Jakob  disease, a fatal neurodegenerative condition.)
The practice of mixing used organs and slaughterhouse scraps
into cattle feed has since been banned in the U.S. and many
other countries. It is one reason episodes of mad-cow disease
now are so rare.  There may never be a satisfactory answer to how the
California cow was infected. Yet the case is a reminder that the
U.S.  food safety  system is in need of improvement, not just to
prevent mad-cow disease, but to curtail outbreaks of food-borne
illnesses that sicken 48 million Americans a year and lead to
3,000 deaths.  Cheap Feed  The federal government could start by ending the practice
of feeding cows what’s euphemistically called  poultry litter .
Poultry litter is the spilled food, feathers, excrement,
carcasses and bedding material that accumulates on the floors of
commercial chicken barns. This material is far cheaper than
corn, alfalfa or other feeds that have soared in price in recent
years, and farmers use a lot of it -- 2 billion pounds a year by
some estimates.  Because chickens aren’t susceptible to mad-cow disease,
poultry farmers are allowed to use feed that includes certain
cattle byproducts. In other words, cows can still end up eating
feed containing cattle-waste products via poultry litter. The
European Commission has  banned  feeding all forms of processed
animal protein to farm animals. The U.S. should do the same.  The U.S. also needs a better system for tracking cattle.
Agriculture Department officials initially had trouble locating
the California cow’s offspring. (The one they found tested
negative.)  The process shouldn’t have been difficult. Many countries -
- including less-developed ones like  Botswana  -- tag all cattle,
either with plastic ear markers or microchips under the skin.
Information gathered from tagging can be stored in a national
database and used to log veterinary records, exposure to disease
and transport history.  The U.S. had promised a tagging program back in 2003, but
it was never put into effect amid objections by the cattle
industry over costs. An Agriculture Department  study  last year
estimated the expense at between $5.5 million and $7.3 million,
assuming it applied only to animals shipped between states.
That’s a relatively small sum compared with the $32 billion in
revenue generated in 2009 by the cattle industry; an outbreak of
mad cow disease, of course, would come with its own public
health costs.  A plan was sent to the White House for review after the
California mad-cow discovery that would limit tagging to animals
for interstate transport. The ranching industry supports this
proposal. But any program should include all cattle. The sick
cow in California never left the state and might have been
exempt from tagging under the latest plan.  Slipping Through  The U.S. needs a more efficient overall inspection regimen.
Of the 35 million cattle slaughtered each year, only 40,000 --
much less than 0.1 percent -- are tested. This low rate raises
the possibility that some diseased animals are slipping through.
What are the odds that just one cow was infected with mad-cow
disease?  The Obama administration in 2009 pushed for legislation to
strengthen food safety, including more inspections of production
and processing operations, and two years ago Congress passed the
Food Safety Modernization Act.  The rules to carry out the law were supposed to be in place
at the start of the year, but have bogged down at the White
House, one that’s perhaps consumed with election-year politics.
The administration says it wants to get the rules right. And
it’s true, business shouldn’t be overburdened with new
regulations. There is no good reason, though, for these basic
steps to protect food safety to be put on hold until after
Election Day.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View :  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  India ’s economic
crossroads; A.A. Gill on  London ’s shareholder revolt;  Ezra Klein 
on  Richard Lugar’s concession speech ;  Noah Feldman  on  Israel’s
new coalition ;  Caroline Baum  on the  nature of U.S. unemployment ;
Reid Hastie on the  failure of narrative thinking ; Sam Sherraden
on  China’s liberalization .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 