-- Alibaba.com Investors Should Accept Buyout Bid, Glass Lewis Says
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-05-09T04:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/alibaba-com-investors-should-accept-buyout-bid-glass-lewis-says.html
Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688)  shareholders should
accept the parent company’s buyout offer, valued at HK$18.4
billion ($2.4 billion), given that the price is higher than past
transactions, Glass Lewis & Co. said.  The HK$13.50 a share offered by Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.
is fair, according to an e-mailed report today from Glass Lewis,
a proxy advisory firm. The deal premium is more than a
“selected set of transactions” tracked by the San Francisco-
based firm, it said, without providing more specific details.  Alibaba Group, China’s biggest e-commerce company, plans to
take Alibaba.com private as a change in the unit’s business
strategy may hurt revenue, the parent said in February. First-
quarter profit at the Hong Kong-listed unit fell 25 percent as
fewer website subscriptions were sold to Chinese exporters.  “Based on the reasonable rationale and the favorable
financial terms, we believe that the proposed scheme is in the
best interests of the minority shareholders,”  Glass Lewis  said.  Alibaba.com  fell  0.3 percent to HK$13.26 as of the midday
break in Hong Kong trading, compared with a 0.9 percent decline
in the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Alibaba has nothing to add at present, John Spelich, a
company spokesman in Hong Kong, said in an e-mail, when asked to
comment on the recommendation by Glass Lewis.  Stockholders of Alibaba.com will vote on the buyout
proposal at a May 25 meeting in Hong Kong.  The parent is offering as much as HK$19.6 billion,
including additional costs such as buying out shares converted
by option holders, it said Feb. 21. The per-share offer price is
46 percent more than Alibaba.com’s closing price before the
stock was suspended Feb. 9 pending the offer announcement.  Alibaba Group, part-owned by  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and  Softbank Corp. (9984) ,
owns e-commerce units including Alibaba.com, a website focused
on business owners, and Taobao, China’s biggest online shopping
site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  