-- Allianz CEO Expects 2012 to Be ‘No Less Challenging’
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-05-09T16:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/allianz-ceo-expects-2012-to-be-no-less-challenging-.html
Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe ’s biggest insurer,
said profit rose at least 53 percent in the first quarter as it
paid less for natural-disaster claims.  Net income before minorities rose to more than 1.4 billion
euros ($1.8 billion) from 915 million euros a year ago, the
Munich-based insurer said in preliminary figures released today.
Operating profit climbed to more than 2.3 billion euros in the
quarter from 1.66 billion euros, beating the 2.14 billion-euro
average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Michael Diekmann told shareholders
that while the company expects to meet its 2012 targets, low
interest rates threaten insurers over the long term as the
industry recovers from claims related to earthquakes and floods
in  Japan  and  Thailand  last year. Natural disasters caused less
than $3 billion of insured losses in the first quarter, down
from almost $53 billion a year earlier, according to  estimates 
from Aon Benfield, the world’s biggest reinsurance broker.  “We are on track to achieve our target for 2012,”
Diekmann said at the annual meeting in Munich today.  Shares Slip  Allianz is scheduled to report detailed first-quarter
results on May 15 before German stock markets open. The
company’s  shares  rose 46 cents, or 0.6 percent, to 83.69 euros
in Frankfurt trading today, bringing their gain this year to 13
percent.  Profit in the year-ago quarter was “burdened especially by
high claims from natural catastrophes,” Allianz said. The
company said in March it expects 2012 to be “no less
challenging” than last year. Its target range for operating
profit is 7.7 billion euros to 8.7 billion euros this year,
compared with 7.87 billion euros in 2011.  Diekmann told shareholders that efforts to stimulate
economies may hurt the industry by keeping  interest rates  near
record lows, hurting the return on bonds insurers hold.  People need to be “careful” about calls for stimulus,
Diekmann said. “Artificially low interest-rate levels are
already a stimulus package, which is financed by all savers.
Additional debt-financed burdens might overcharge the system.”  “A long-term policy of artificially low interest rates
will have unwelcome, harmful side effects,” Diekmann added.
“First and foremost, savers and insurers will be hit
particularly hard. There is a risk that a prolonged period of
expansive monetary policy will create the next bubble, making it
the precursor to the next crisis.”  China Listing Approved  Allianz said in a separate  statement  today that it
appointed Helmut Perlet, its former chief financial officer, as
a candidate for the supervisory board to succeed Chairman
Henning Schulte-Noelle, who didn’t stand for re-election. At
today’s meeting, Allianz also got shareholder approval to list
its shares on Chinese markets.  Allianz expects higher profit this year, helped by the
“high single-digit price increase” it secured for German motor
insurance in 2011. The record $105 billion of natural disaster
claims that depressed earnings last year may give insurers and
the reinsurers that help them shoulder risks for clients
leverage to push through property and casualty price increases.  Shareholder Criticism  Allianz has set a goal to raise premiums at its German
property and casualty division, its biggest non-life unit by
premium income, by 500 million euros to 9.5 billion euros by
2014. It also plans cost cuts to improve the unit’s operating
profit by more than 500 million euros. The insurer is “on
plan” with the initiative, Markus Riess, the company’s head of
German operations, said in an interview earlier this month.  Some shareholders were critical of the turnaround plans.
German casualty and property is still Allianz’s “largest
challenge,” Ingo Speich, a  fund manager  at Union Investment,
said at the meeting. “The unit aims to be profitable by 2014.
We are asking ourselves how this could be done in such a short
amount of time.”  Speakers representing relief organization Oxfam  criticized 
Allianz for investing in agricultural commodities, where the
rising cost of energy and food prices has drawn renewed scrutiny
of speculation. Diekmann replied the company will review such
concerns “ very seriously ” as it observes aspects of corporate
social responsibility in its investments of funds on behalf of
its insurance customers.  Union Investment’s Speich also questioned whether Fireman’s
Fund, Allianz’s U.S. property and casualty insurer, would return
to profit given it had lost money in better market conditions.
Allianz should sell units that are losing money permanently as
soon as possible, he added.  ‘Highly Competitive’  “We will work to improve Fireman’s Fund as necessary,”
Diekmann said in response. “The U.S. market is highly
competitive. We are present in attractive niches and don’t plan
to do much more there.”  Allianz’s U.S. property and casualty insurance division
swung to an operating loss of 130 million euros last year.
Natural-disaster losses pushed the combined ratio, which shows
costs and claim payments as a percentage of premium income, to
115.5 percent from 102.4 percent a year ago.  Diekmann, who has headed the insurer’s business in the U.S.
and  Latin America  since before his appointment as CEO in 2003,
has had to strengthen reserves several times for asbestos risks
at Novato, California-based Fireman’s Fund, which is led by Lori Dickerson Fouche. Last year, it set aside an extra 153 million
euros at Fireman’s Fund and the U.S. arm of its Allianz Global
Corporate & Specialty industrial insurance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  