-- Ally Said to Get ResCap Bondholder Backing for Bankruptcy
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-05-09T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/ally-said-to-get-rescap-bondholder-backing-for-bankruptcy.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the auto lender
majority-owned by U.S. taxpayers, received an oral commitment
from bondholders of Residential Capital to support a bankruptcy
filing for the mortgage unit that could come early next week,
people with direct knowledge of the talks said.  The investors were given material, nonpublic information
and are negotiating final details of what they’d receive to
settle their  claims , said one person, who declined to be
identified because the talks aren’t public. While negotiations
could still fail, a court filing may come as soon as the evening
of May 13 in New York, a person working with the company said.  The talks could create a “prepackaged”  bankruptcy  for
ResCap, which may shorten disputes and court proceedings, and in
turn make it easier for Ally to repay a U.S. bailout that left
the U.S. Treasury Department with a 74 percent stake. A ResCap
bankruptcy would rank among the largest tied to a Treasury-owned
asset since General Motors Corp. won court protection in 2009.  The taxpayer rescue of Detroit-based Ally topped $17
billion, and Chief Executive Officer  Michael Carpenter , 65, has
said a planned initial public offering to raise some of those
funds won’t happen until there’s progress on resolving the fate
of the mortgage business. President  Barack Obama  vowed in 2009
to recover “every last dime” of bailout money given to banks.  Fortress Role  Ally lined up  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  to buy the
mortgage unit in a court-supervised sale, one of the people
said. New York-based Fortress has been in talks since at least
March, when people familiar with the matter said the investment
firm would pay more than $1 billion to acquire parts of ResCap,
including some of its mortgage-servicing subsidiary that handles
billing and collections.  ResCap, in another step toward a court filing, secured
$1.45 billion in so-called debtor-in-possession financing with
Barclays Plc, said another person briefed on the matter. The
funds would let ResCap operate while under court supervision.  The bankruptcy plan received conditional approval from the
Treasury, which will support Ally and ResCap directors if they
decide a bankruptcy is the best course of action, an Obama
administration official said earlier this week. The U.S.
concluded that addressing ResCap’s mortgage losses will put
taxpayers in a better position to recoup their investment in
Ally, according to the official.  Opposition to Filing  Investors holding at least $800 million in ResCap debt,
including  John Paulson ’s Paulson & Co. and  David Tepper ’s
Appaloosa Management LP, hired law firm  White & Case  LLP and
partner Gerard Uzzi in January to oppose a bankruptcy.  Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Ally, Gordon Runte at
Fortress, Anthony Morro of White & Case, and Paulson’s  Armel Leslie  said they couldn’t comment. Tepper didn’t return phone
and e-mail messages.  Ally, formerly known as GMAC, confirmed last month that
ResCap, run by Thomas Marano, is considering bankruptcy and said
Ally’s loss tied to the action could be $400 million to $1.25
billion. Ally had about $101.6 billion in debt outstanding and
employed 14,800 workers at the end of December, according to its
annual filing.  Marano, 50, was global head of mortgage and asset-backed
securities at Bear Stearns Cos. before that company’s 2008
collapse. In April of that year, he joined ResCap as non-
executive chairman and an employee of Cerberus Capital
Management LP, the New York-based investment firm. He became a
ResCap executive later that year.  There are no publicly traded shares in Ally. Minority
stakes include 9.9 percent held by a trust for General Motors
Co. and 8.7 percent owned by Cerberus. GM was GMAC’s parent
until 2006, when Cerberus engineered a buyout. Cerberus then
lost control and its stake was diluted in the bailout that began
in 2008.  At Arm’s-Length  Ally has sought to distance itself from ResCap and
Carpenter said during a first-quarter earnings conference call
that all transactions conducted between the companies have been
done at arm’s-length. The bankruptcy decision will fall to
ResCap’s seven-member board, Carpenter said.  ResCap creditors, in a bid to recover more value for their
positions, may dispute the independence of the two firms,  Fitch
Ratings  said in an April 13 report.  Ally ranked No. 1 in financing U.S. consumer auto sales for
2011 with more than $40 billion in contracts for new or used
cars and trucks, or about 1.5 million vehicles. ResCap was one
of the largest originators during the housing bubble of subprime
and Alt-A mortgages until record defaults led to billions of
dollars in losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  