-- AMC Entertainment Said in Sale Talks With China’s Wanda
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-09T19:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/amc-entertainment-said-in-sale-talks-with-china-s-wanda.html
AMC Entertainment Inc. (AMC) , the second-
largest U.S. cinema chain, is in talks to sell all or part of
the company to Wanda Group, one of China’s biggest exhibitors, a
person with knowledge of the situation said.  A deal would value the chain at roughly $1.5 billion, said
the person, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly because the
talks are private. Discussions Kansas City, Missouri-based AMC
began more than a year ago and gained momentum after in April,
said the person.  An accord would bring together a cinema chain in the  North
America , the world’s biggest film market, and a top exhibitor in
China, where sales grew 35 percent last year, according to the
Motion Picture Association of America. China is the third-
largest market, behind the U.S. and Japan, according to the
MPAA.  Susie Arons of Rubenstein Communications, an outside
spokeswoman for AMC, declined to comment. Zhang Qi, a spokesman
for Wanda Cinemas in Beijing, also declined to comment.  AMC, which reported having 347 theaters with 5,048 screens
in February, is owned by private-equity groups including  Apollo
Investment Fund (APOL) ,  J.P. Morgan Partners (JPM) , Bain Capital Investors
LLC, the  Carlyle Group (CG)  and others, according to a Dec. 9 filing.
The  New York  Times reported the story earlier.  The The company revived plans for an initial stock sale in
July 2010, an offering that hasn’t been concluded. In 2008, when
previous IPO plans were abandoned, the company formally withdrew
its application in a regulatory filing, a step that hasn’t been
taken this time.  Wanda operates 86 cinemas and accounts for 15 percent of
China’s box-office receipts, according to the company’s website.
Wanda is a unit of Dalian Wanda Group Corp., which has
investments in property, hotels, and department stores.  U.S. box-office sales for 2012 were up 16 percent to $3.58
billion through the first week in May, while attendance has
increased 19 percent, according to researcher Hollywood.com.  Regal Entertainment Group (RGC) , the largest exhibitor, had risen
20 percent this year before today, while  Cinemark Holdings Inc. (CNK) 
is up 30 percent and  Carmike Cinemas Inc. (CKEC)  has more than doubled.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  