-- Hamilton Hits 4 Home Runs, Drives in 8 as Texas Beats Baltimore
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-05-09T04:02:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/hamilton-hits-four-home-runs-drives-in-8-runs-as-texas-wins.html
Josh Hamilton  became the 16th player
in Major League Baseball history to hit four home runs in a game
and drove in a career-high eight runs as the Texas Rangers won
10-3 at Baltimore.  Hamilton, 30, hit two-run homers in the first, third,
seventh and eighth innings -- each time with  Elvis Andrus  on
base. He also doubled to deep right-center field in the fifth
inning last night at the Orioles’ Camden Yards.  “Obviously it’s, other than being in the  World Series , the
highlight of my big-league career,” Hamilton told reporters.
“It reminds you of when you’re in Little League and a little
kid, and just the excitement and why we play the game. Things
like that. You never know what can happen.”  Hamilton, who is earning $13.8 million this season and is
eligible for free agency after this year, had 18 total bases to
set an  American League  record. A home run is worth four total
bases and a double counts for two.  Hamilton, the American League’s Most Valuable Player in
2010, went 5-for-5 to raise his batting average this season
to .406. He leads the major leagues with 14 home runs and 36
RBIs.  He is the first player to hit four homers in a game since
Carlos Delgado did it for the  Toronto Blue Jays  on Sept. 25,
2003. Hamilton also cleared the fence in his last at-bat the
night before, giving him five homers in his last six plate
appearances.  Andrus had two hits and a walk, and reached base in the
eighth when he grounded into a force out.  “He kept hitting bombs and bombs,” Andrus told reporters.
“It feels really good because I don’t have to run that hard to
score.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  