-- Amryis Declines After Earnings Miss: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-05-09T20:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/amryis-declines-after-earnings-miss-san-francisco-mover.html
Amyris Inc. (AMRS) , the U.S. biotechnology
company 21 percent-owned by  Total SA (FP) , fell to a record low after
reporting a first-quarter loss that was wider than analysts’
estimates and restructuring its manufacturing operations.  Amyris fell 21 percent to $1.99 at the close in New York,
the lowest since the company began trading in September 2010.
The Emeryville, California-based company posted a net loss of
$94.5 million, or $1.88 a share, it said in a statement
yesterday. The loss  exceeded  by $1.14 a share the average of
eight estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Amyris will suspend contract manufacturing of farnesene, a
hydrocarbon made from sugar that can be processed into diesel,
 aviation fuel  or specialty chemicals, at one of two facilities
outside  Brazil  and is scaling back at a third site in the South
American country, Chief Executive Officer John Melo said
yesterday on a conference call.  The company will shift production to a plant it expects to
complete “mid-year” at a Sao Paulo sugar cane mill owned by
Paraiso Bioenergia SA, the first that Amyris fully owns.  Amyris is transitioning “from a business solely reliant on
contract manufacturing to commissioning our wholly-owned
industrial scale renewable farnesene plant,” Melo said.  The production changes resulted in a $36.7 million charge
in the first quarter, according to the statement.  The Paraiso plant will be able to make 50 million liters
(13.2 million gallons) a year. Production is expected to begin
in early 2013 and it will reach full capacity within about three
years, Melo said.  Contract Manufacturing  Amyris expects to wind down contract manufacturing “soon”
at either  Tate & Lyle Plc (TATE) ’s facilities in Decatur,  Illinois , or
Antibioticos SA’s site in Leon,  Spain , Melo said.  A third contract manufacturing operation at Biomin Holding
GmbH’s facilities in Brazil will have “limited use” after
Paraiso opens, he said.  Completion of another project, a 100 million liter-a-year
plant at a sugar mill owned by  Sao Martinho SA (SMTO3) , will be delayed
to late 2014 or early 2015, from next year, Melo said.  “Until they get costs lower, they can’t really bring on
more production because the markets aren’t big enough for them
to sell into profitably,” Ben Kallo, an analyst with Robert W.
Baird & Co. in San Francisco, said by telephone.  Amyris manufactured about 919,000 liters of farnesene
during the quarter, nearly half of the 2 million liters it’s
made since the company was founded. The average selling price in
the first quarter was $7.70 a liter, Melo said. He wouldn’t
disclose the company’s production costs during the call and
wouldn’t say how much production capacity is being utilized.  Visibility Lacking  “Within this call, we took an even bigger step down in the
amount of visibility we have with Amyris,” Kallo said.
“Visibility is very important to us,” he said.  The company’s contract manufacturing capacity this year may
be cut to 10 million liters from a previous projection of 50
million liters, Jeff Osborne, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus &
Co. in  New York , said today in a research note.  Former Chief Financial Officer Jeryl Hilleman, who was
replaced by  Steve Mills  last week, wouldn’t provide analysts
with a forecast of  capital expenditures  this year, though she
said Amyris used $61.8 million in cash during the quarter and
must repay some of its $29 million in debt before 2013. Amyris
has about $104 million in  cash .  The company has “adequate cash to sustain operations for
the rest of the year,”  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst with Raymond
James & Associates Inc. in Houston, said today in a research
note, though the company still faces challenges.  “The stock’s recent meltdown suggests that the market may
see a cash crunch or even bankruptcy as a realistic scenario.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  