-- Lan Announces Start of Tam Tender Offer in Brazil and U.S
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-05-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/lan-announces-start-of-tam-tender-offer-in-brazil-and-u-s.html
Lan Airlines SA (LAN)  begins an offer for
shares in Brazilian carrier  Tam SA (TAMM4)  today in a transaction that
would create the world’s largest airline by market value.  The $3.7 billion share swap received authorization from
U.S. securities regulators yesterday after Brazilian authorities
gave their clearance May 7, the Santiago-based carrier said in a
statement on the website of Chile’s securities regulator.  The tender offer will run through June 11 simultaneously in
 Brazil  and the U.S. The combined company will have a market
value of about $13 billion, overtaking  Air China Ltd. (753)  and
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  as the world’s biggest carrier.  “This means that the merger will finally materialize and
Lan will be able to consolidate Tam’s figures in the second
quarter,” said Mabel Weber, an analyst at Bice Inversiones in
Santiago. “The first months we’ll surely see more integration
costs than synergies but the company should be able to see
benefits from next year.”  Tam shares will be swapped for stock in a holding company
called Holdco II, which will combine with Lan to form Latam
Airlines. Under terms announced August 2010, investors will get
the equivalent of 0.9 Lan share for each Tam share.  Tam surged 63 percent to 46.30 reais since the transaction
was announced while Lan gained 3.5 percent to 13,347 pesos. Tam
traded at a 4.7 percent discount to the all-stock offer as of
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Estimated Savings  Lan won over  Chile ’s antitrust tribunal in September and
Brazilian regulators in December, for a deal that will give it
almost half of routes in Brazil. With Tam, Lan is gaining an
airline that is 39 percent larger by sales, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Tam posted revenue of $7.8 billion last
year compared with Lan’s $5.6 billion.  The companies plan to develop the cargo business from
Brazil. They estimate savings from the tie-up at $600 million to
$700 million four years after completing the transaction.  Lan operates a fleet of 135 passenger aircraft and 14
dedicated freighters, while Tam has 156 planes, according to a
joint statement distributed in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 