-- Landlords Advance on Central Office Building Sale Report
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-05-09T03:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/landlords-advance-on-central-office-building-sale-report.html
Swire Properties Ltd. (1972)  and  Hongkong
Land  Holdings Ltd. led shares of Hong Kong commercial landlords
higher after an office building in the Central business area was
sold for HK$4.9 billion ($631 million).  Swire Properties, which owns the Pacific Place and Island
East office and shopping mall complexes, advanced 3.8 percent to
HK$21.95 as of 11:06 a.m. local time, heading for the highest
since its January listing. Hongkong Land, the biggest landlord
in Central, gained 0.8 percent to S$6.00 on the Singapore
exchange, where its shares trade. The  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP) ,
which tracks Hong Kong’s seven-biggest developers and doesn’t
include Swire Properties and Hongkong Land, fell 1.3 percent.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. agreed to buy the 50
Connaught Road Central building, according to two people
familiar with the transaction, who declined to be identified
because the information isn’t public. Hong Kong-listed National
Electronic Holdings Ltd., which owns 20 percent of the building,
said in a statement yesterday it’s selling the stake to a third
party it didn’t identify.  “The transaction is mildly positive for Central office
landlords,” analysts led by Karl Choi at Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit wrote in a report today. The deal
“may also create additional leasing demand in Central medium
term as some of the existing tenants of 50 Connaught Road may
need to seek alternative locations.”  Central’s prime office rents fell 9 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier and may decline another 20 percent
over the next 12 months as banks freeze hiring in anticipation
of a slowdown in corporate finance activities, Colliers
International said in a report last month. The city is the
world’s most expensive place to lease an office, according to
CBRE Group Inc.  The 28-storey building is owned by National Electronics and
Apollo Global Real Estate Management, according to 50 Connaught
Road Central’s website.  Local newspapers including Sing Tao Daily reported the
building’s sale earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ; 