-- Antarctic Area Thought Stable Threatened by Warm Currents
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-05-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/antarctic-ice-sheet-at-risk-of-retreating-because-of-warm-waters.html
An Antarctic area previously thought
stable may be at risk as ocean currents undermine a floating
frozen shelf and threaten to push part of the West Antarctic Ice
Sheet into retreat, according to papers in Nature journals.  Rising temperatures will thin the sea ice on the Weddell
Sea, sending warm currents under the Filchner-Ronne Ice Shelf,
where melting is seen growing to an annual 4 meters (13 feet) by
2100 from 0.2 meters now, according to one of the two papers.
The second study found land under the ice sheet is below sea-
level and slopes into the interior, forming a smooth basin the
size of Wales that may make it easier for ocean water to enter.  The studies in Nature and Nature Geoscience show the threat
posed to that part of the Antarctic by higher temperatures,
risking an increase in the southern continent’s contribution to
rising sea levels. The West Antarctic Ice Sheet contains enough
water to lift sea levels more than 3 meters, though that isn’t
likely for thousands of years, according to the  United Nations .  “What we see in this region is a grounded ice sheet very
nearly floating over a significant sub-glacial basin,” Martin
Siegert, a co-author of the second paper, said on a conference
call with reporters. Combined with the findings of the first
paper, “we believe it’s at significant risk,” he said.  Siegert is professor of geosciences at the University of
Edinburgh in  Scotland . The study on Antarctic currents was led
by Hartmut Hellmer, a scientist at the  Alfred Wegener Institute
of Polar and Marine Research  in Bremerhaven,  Germany .  Rising Sea Levels  The Wedell Sea lies to the east of the Antarctic Peninsula,
a spit of land that points toward  South America . Researchers
have already documented the collapse of the Larsen B ice shelf
to the north of Ronne-Filchner, as well as the retreat of the
Pine Island glacier and threats to the Wilkins ice shelf, both
to the west of the peninsula.  While neither of the studies quantified the potential
effect on sea levels, the findings show the region may be on the
brink of “fast change,” said Angelika Humbert, a professor of
ice modeling at the Alfred Wegener Institute.  “With increased flow speed and a retreating grounding
line, the amount of Antarctic inland ice transported into the
sea increases, and that raises the  sea level ,” Humbert said on
the call. She wasn’t an author of either paper.  Humbert wrote in an article in Nature Geoscience that the
two studies show the Filchner-Ronne Ice Shelf, which has “so
far seemed stable,” may be susceptible to changes such as those
seen on the other side of the Antarctic Peninsula.  Melting Ice Shelves  The research adds to a study last month by the British
Antarctic Survey that showed upwellings of warm water are
melting the base of 20 of the 54 ice shelves surrounding the
southern continent that were studied.  The melting of ice shelves doesn’t boost sea levels because
they rest on the ocean, displacing water. In contrast, the loss
of ice from the grounded ice sheet does raise the oceans.  The UN Intergovernmental Panel on  Climate Change  in 2007
 estimated  the smaller West  Antarctica  ice sheet is shrinking,
while the larger East sheet is growing or stable, concluding
that the balance for the continent ranged from an annual gain of
50 gigatons of ice to a loss of 200 gigatons in the decade
through 2003. The resulting sea-level change ranged from an
annual drop of 0.14 millimeters to a gain of 0.55 millimeters.  Hellmer’s team used computer models to simulate the effects
of rising temperatures in the Weddell Sea. They found it melted
sea ice, redirecting warm currents under the Filchner-Ronne Ice
Shelf. They projected average thinning of 4 meters a year by the
end of the century, with a portion melting by as much as 50
meters a year near the point that the shelf is grounded.  Echo-Sounding  “If we assume that grounding lines retreat into deeper
basins, our melt rates have to be considered as lower bounds,”
the researchers wrote.  Siegert’s team, led by Neil Ross at the  University of
Edinburgh , used radio echo-sounding data from flights over
Antarctica to find evidence that the bed under the ice in West
Antarctica is at points more than 1.5 kilometers (1 mile) below
sea-level. The smooth surface indicates it had been covered in
marine sediment and so was once clear of ice, they wrote. Such
deglaciation is possible again, Siegert said.  “We believe this region is on the threshold of change,”
he said. “It needs some push to get over that, but we don’t
believe that push has to be very hard to deliver a lot of
deglaciation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  