-- AOL First-Quarter Profit Increases on Advertising Gains
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-05-09T20:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/aol-first-quarter-profit-increases-on-online-advertising-gains.html
AOL Inc. (AOL) , owner of  the Huffington Post 
and  TechCrunch , reported a more than fourfold jump in first-
quarter profit as online-advertising revenue increased.  Net income advanced to $21.1 million, or 22 cents a share,
from $4.7 million, or 4 cents, a year earlier, the New York-
based company said today in a statement. Excluding some items,
per-share profit was 31 cents. Analysts had  predicted  17 cents,
the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong  is transforming AOL
into an ad-based digital-publishing business, as customers of
its legacy dial-up Internet-access division switch to broadband
offered by cable operators. The company bought the  Huffington
Post  for $315 million last year and expanded  Patch , a local-news
division that Armstrong said he expects to command about $50
million in sales this year and to become “run-rate profitable”
by the end of 2013.  AOL is also looking to expand the technology sites Engadget
and TechCrunch by working with another company, and has no
“appetite to sell them,” Armstrong said in a telephone
interview today. The technology blog PandoDaily earlier reported
that AOL was looking to offload those properties, without citing
anyone.  “We’re very interested in partnering with someone to
invest more heavily in those sites,” Armstrong said, declining
to name potential investors.  Shares Rise  AOL, which was spun off from Time Warner Inc. in 2009,  rose 
3.5 percent to $26.47 at the close in New York. The shares have
advanced 75 percent this year.  While total advertising revenue increased 5 percent to
$330.1 million, U.S. display advertising fell 1 percent to
$118.9 million, the first decline in the last five quarters.  “I was not happy with domestic display over the course of
Q1,” Armstrong said. One major advertiser cut spending with AOL
during the first quarter, he said.  Total AOL sales  declined  4 percent to $529.4 million, from
$551.4 million a year earlier, while topping the $525.2 million
average of analysts’ estimates.  In April, AOL agreed to sell more than 800 patents to
Microsoft Corp. for $1.06 billion. The transaction is expected
to close by the end of the year. Microsoft may have to pay
$211.2 million if the deal is terminated, AOL said in the
statement today.  AOL will return all of the proceeds from the patent sale to
shareholders, Armstrong said on a conference call.  Starboard Slate  AOL faces a fight with Starboard Value LP over directors’
seats. Starboard -- the fifth-largest shareholder, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, with 5.2 percent -- has urged
investors to vote for its three nominees at the annual meeting
June 14.  Starboard has estimated that AOL lost $545 million last
year -- in adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization -- in its display advertising
business. AOL doesn’t disclose adjusted EBITDA by business
segment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  