-- Arabtec Says First-Quarter Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-05-09T05:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/arabtec-quarterly-net-beats-estimates-names-al-qubaisi-chairman.html
     May 9 (Bloomberg) -- Arabtec Holding Co., the biggest
builder in the  United Arab Emirates  by market value, said first-
quarter profit climbed, beating analysts’ estimates.  Net income surged to 84 million dirhams ($23 million) from
26.6 million dirhams a year earlier, the company  said in a
statement  to the Dubai stock market today. The median estimate
of four analysts was for a profit of 42 million dirhams,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s board appointed Khadem Al Qubaisi as chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Riad Kamal as vice chairman,
 according to a separate statement.  Al Qubaisi is also the
chairman of Abu Dhabi government-controlled Aabar Investments
PJSC, which dropped a $1.74 billion offer for Arabtec two years
ago. Aabar, through its units, holds 10.5 percent of Arabtec,
the latest filings on the stock exchange show.  Construction companies in the U.A.E. are searching for work
in other markets after $964 billion worth of projects had been
halted or canceled in the country as of last November, Citigroup
said in a Jan. 6 report. A group including Arabtec, TAV Insaat
and Consolidated Contractors Co. is the preferred bidder for the
construction of the new terminal building at  Abu Dhabi  airport
estimated at $3 billion, Abu Dhabi airports said in a statement
May 6.  Arabtec on April 23 said one of its units won contracts
valued at 504 million dirhams in the U.A.E. and Qatar. A day
earlier, the contractor was awarded a 222 million-dirham
contract by a unit of Abu Dhabi’s Aabar.  The contractor’s shares lost 0.1 percent to 3.33 dirham in
Dubai yesterday. The shares surged 120 percent so far this year,
leaving the company with market value of 5.2 billion dirhams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 