-- Arizona Sheriff Sued for Alleged Civil Rights Violations
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-05-10T23:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/maricopa-county-sheriff-violates-discrimination-laws-u-s-says.html
Arizona’s Maricopa County and its
sheriff, Joseph Arpaio, were sued by the U.S.  Justice Department 
for discrimination against Latinos, prompting the sheriff to
retort he’s the subject of an Obama administration election-year
maneuver.  The lawsuit, filed today in federal court in Phoenix,
accuses the sheriff’s department of denying constitutional
protections to Latino prisoners who have limited English
language skills. The complaint also alleges the sheriff’s
department has retaliated against perceived critics with
“baseless criminal actions, unfounded civil lawsuits or
meritless administrative actions.”  The alleged discrimination “is the product of a culture of
disregard for Latinos that starts at the top and pervades the
organization,” the Justice Department said in a statement.  Sheriff’s office jail employees frequently refer to Latinos
as “wetbacks,” “Mexican bitches,” and “stupid Mexicans,”
according to the complaint. Supervisors in immigration
enforcement show anti-Latino bias, including sending around an
e-mail of a Chihuahua dressed in swimming gear with a caption
that read, “a rare photo of a Mexican Navy Seal,” according to
the complaint.  Arapaio, who has been elected five times and served 20
years in office, said President  Barack Obama  is going after him
to court Latino voters.  ‘Political’ Move  “They know this is political and they know this has to do
with the president of the  United States ,” he said today at a
news conference in Phoenix.  Arpaio called the timing of the case “highly suspect” in
light of the coming presidential election, in which the Latino 
vote may play a critical role, and the  Supreme Court ’s 
consideration of Arizona’s immigration law, which was argued on 
April 25.  “It is a national issue,” he said. “I am the poster boy.
They are using me.”  Justice Department representatives didn’t immediately
return a call after regular business hours for comment on the
sheriff’s allegations.  The Justice Department said in December that the sheriff’s
office discriminated against Latinos with unlawful stops,
arrests and biased jail practices. An inquiry revealed “serious
concerns” that Arpaio didn’t investigate crimes adequately or
provide police protection to the Latino community, Justice
Department officials said.  Joe Popolizio, a lawyer for the sheriff’s office, said at a
news conference in Phoenix that the Justice Department has
refused to provide information to support its findings.  ‘Factual Basis’  “We have repeatedly asked for the factual basis of those
findings,” he said.  Popolizio said a lawsuit will require the Justice
Department to share those records and name witnesses. The
federal government’s requirement for a monitor to oversee the
sheriff’s department would be “usurping the power of the
sheriff,” Popolizio said.  The Justice Department sent letters to Arpaio and his
department yesterday warning them to expect a lawsuit after they
refused to negotiate a consent agreement. The lawsuit seeks
court-ordered relief ensuring that Arpaio and his department
implement policies and procedures to prevent the conduct alleged
in the complaint.  “Though we provided the Maricopa County Sheriff’s Office
with a draft agreement and were prepared to negotiate it, the
Maricopa County Sheriff’s Office made the decision to cancel
negotiations,” Assistant Attorney General Thomas E. Perez said
in the letters to Arpaio and Maricopa County Attorney  William
Montgomery  in Phoenix.  Independent Monitor  The negotiations failed because the sheriff’s department
wouldn’t agree to an independent monitor, Perez said today in a
conference call with reporters.  Arpaio’s department covers the state’s biggest county by
population, with 3.8 million residents. His methods -- which
have included “crime suppression” sweeps in predominantly
Latino areas in and around Phoenix -- have made him a hero to
groups seeking a crackdown on illegal entrants to the U.S. and a
target of advocates for immigrants’ rights.  Arapaio accused the Justice Department of working with
Latino activists who want him out of office. He said he believes
the investigation that led to the lawsuit began under Obama, not
under President  George W. Bush , as he said the Justice
Department contends.  Civil Rights Case  This is the second time the Justice Department has sued a
police department in this type of civil rights case, Perez said.
The earlier case involved the police department in Columbus,
 Ohio , which ultimately settled the case, he said.  “At its core, this is an abuse-of-power case involving a
sheriff and sheriff’s office that disregarded the Constitution,
ignored sound police practices, compromised public safety, and
did not hesitate to retaliate against perceived critics,” Perez
said.  The Justice Department said in its complaint that in 2006,
Arpaio decided to turn the sheriff’s office into “a full-
fledged anti-illegal immigration agency.”  Latino drivers and passengers are unlawfully detained to
determine their immigration status when there is no legal basis
to hold them, the Justice Department said. In some parts of the
county, Latino drivers are almost nine times more likely to be
stopped by sheriff officers than non-Latino drivers engaged in
similar conduct, according to the complaint.  John Masterson, a lawyer for the sheriff’s office, said at
today’s news conference that the facts weren’t there to support
the Justice Department’s allegations.  “We will defend this litigation aggressively and we will
seek the information from DOJ that they have refused to
provide,” Masterson said. “They don’t have anything that
supports systematic constitutional violations.”  The case is U.S. v. Maricopa County, 12-00981, U.S.
District Court, District of  Arizona  (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  