-- Markstone Says Company Breakups to Spur Israel Deals
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-05-09T13:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/markstone-says-company-breakups-to-spur-israel-deals.html
Israel ’s efforts to simplify corporate
structures and cut cross ownership will force companies to sell
assets, creating opportunities for private equity funds, said
Markstone Capital Group’s Ron Lubash.  “The business empires are under a huge amount of pressure
because of changing sentiment and changing regulation and a
variety of other changes, which will now force them to probably
shed a lot of their assets,” Lubash, chief executive officer of
 Markstone , a Tel Aviv-based private equity fund, said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York  yesterday. “A
lot of ownership will change hands. I’m talking about hundreds
of companies.”  Israeli stocks  are lagging behind U.S. equities this year
on concern tighter regulation and government reform will bolster
competition and erode earnings.  Tel Aviv ’s benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25) 
has climbed 4.2 percent in 2012, compared with a 13 percent jump
in the  Nasdaq Composite Index. (CCMP)  The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity
Index of the  most-traded  Israeli companies in New York fell 0.3
percent yesterday, paring its gain this year to 8.4 percent. The
TA-25 Index lost 1.3 percent today.  The nation’s committee on economic concentration proposed
limiting company structures to three public layers in
recommendations submitted to Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
on March 20. Under the new rules, holding companies will need to
reduce cross-holdings in financial and industrial businesses and
minority shareholders will have more power within third-level
holding companies.  ‘Various Types of Investors’  “Structural changes open up a significant number of
opportunities for various types of investors,” said Lubash, who
is a former managing director at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
and was in New York meeting people about his investment in
online options trading company  Win Global Markets Inc. (WGMI)  “Private
equity is a useful tool in a structural change, but not only,
there will be other investors that will flock into some of these
companies.”  The reforms being pushed by the committee are aimed at
boosting competition in Israel and target the nation’s 10
biggest corporations, which comprise 41 percent of the value of
listed companies, according to the  Finance Ministry .  Win Global, based in Tel Aviv, provides an Internet
platform for options trading where retail investors can bet on
stock movements. The company has about 60,000 registered users
and 70 percent are located in the U.S., Shimon Citron, chief
executive officer of the company, said in an interview in New
York yesterday.  ‘Land of Opportunity’  Lubash was part of a group that invested $1 million in Win
Global in August. He has also invested in agricultural and
medical technology companies including Zeraim Gedera Ltd. and
 Given Imaging Ltd. (GIVN)   “Israel is the land of opportunity for investors,” Lubash
said yesterday. “There are new emerging, interesting industries
every year.”  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies trading on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any nation outside the U.S. after
 China . The country is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Moody’s Investors Service cut the outlook on Israel’s
banking system to negative from stable yesterday on expectations
the economy will slow and a “challenging operating
environment” will exist in the country over the next year to 18
months. The central bank forecasts growth in gross domestic
product will slow to 3.1 percent in 2012, from 4.8 percent in
2011.  Perrigo Outlook  Perrigo Co. (PRGO) , the largest U.S. maker of generic over-the-
counter drugs, slumped the most since October in New York after
the company cut its revenue growth forecast and posted earnings
that missed analysts’ estimates.  Shares of the Allegan, Michigan-based drugmaker slid 3.6
percent to $100, the lowest level since Feb. 27. The stock
yesterday traded at a premium of 72 cents over its  Tel Aviv-
listed shares . Perrigo rose 1 percent to 381.7 shekels, or the
equivalent of $99.91.  Sales grew 13 percent to $778 million in the third quarter
ending March 31, compared with the $823 million median of 12
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Perrigo lowered its
2012 growth outlook to between 15 percent to 18 percent, from 17
percent to 20 percent, citing a mild influenza season.  Internet Gold-Golden Lines Ltd. (IGLD) , the  company  that controls
Bezeq Israeli Telecommunication Corp., fell 4.1 percent to $5.64
in New York, the lowest level in three weeks. The company’s Tel
Aviv  shares  lost 4.9 percent to 19.94 shekels, or the equivalent
of $5.22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  