-- Stocks Decline With Commodities, Euro on Greece Concern
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-09T20:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/asian-stocks-fall-to-three-month-low-kiwi-declines.html
Stocks fell, sending the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index to a two-month low, while the euro extended its
longest slump since 2008 as Greece struggled to form a
government and concern grew that Spanish banks are underfunded.  The  S&P 500  slipped 0.7 percent to 1,354.58 at 4 p.m. in
 New York , trimming an earlier tumble of as much as 1.5 percent
as developments in  Europe  whipsawed markets. The euro
depreciated 0.5 percent to $1.2940, weakening for an eighth day
and reaching the lowest level since January.  Spain (IBEX) ’s benchmark
IBEX 35 Index sank 2.8 percent to an eight-year low and costs to
protect the nation’s government debt rose to a record. The S&P
GSCI Index of 24 commodities lost 0.1 percent as wheat and corn
led declines and oil fell for a sixth consecutive day.  Concern that Greece will be forced out of the  euro zone 
grew after weekend elections resulted in a parliament divided
over whether to implement austerity measures needed to qualify
for rescue funds. The nation’s political turmoil was set to
enter a fourth day with coalition talks deadlocked, raising the
possibility that another election will have to be held.  “There’s something to worry about here,” said James Dunigan, who helps oversee $112 billion as chief investment
officer in Philadelphia for PNC Wealth Management. “We expected
there would be flare-ups again in Europe. People were scratching
their heads why they didn’t show up a little sooner. Certainly
as a result of the elections in Greece, the odds of a default
and an exit from the euro have increased.”  Market Swings  U.S. equities  extended  losses earlier as the Wall Street
Journal reported that European nations were debating whether to
delay Greece’s next aid payment. Stocks trimmed declines as the
European Financial Stability Facility’s Board of Directors
confirmed the release of a 5.2 billion euro ($6.7 billion)
tranche of aid to Greece, saying 4.2 billion euros will be
disbursed May 10 and the remaining 1 billion euros will be
released depending on the nation’s financing needs.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  extended its retreat from a four-year high last
month to more than  4.5 percent . Gauges of industrial and
financial shares fell more than 1 percent to lead declines among
all of the  10 main  industry groups in the index. United
Technologies Corp., Boeing Co. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. lost at
least 1.8 percent for the biggest declines in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU) , which fell for a sixth straight day in its
longest slump since August.  Macy’s Inc., the owner of its namesake and Bloomingdale’s
department stores, slid 3.7 percent after keeping its forecast
for profit this year lower than analysts’ estimates.  QE Speculation  Ten-year Treasury yields were little changed at 1.83
percent as the U.S. sold $24 billion of 10-year notes at a
record low yield of 1.855 percent, lingering near the lowest
level since January. Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill
Gross  and Jan Hatzius at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. say investors
should prepare for additional bond purchases by the  Federal
Reserve  to combat a slowing U.S. economy.  A decision to buy more debt is “getting closer,” Gross,
who runs Pimco’s Total Return Fund, the world’s largest mutual
fund, wrote on Twitter yesterday. Hatzius, the chief economist
at New York-based Goldman Sachs, predicted in a report the same
day that the Fed will announce additional monetary easing when
it meets in June.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  lost 0.3 percent after sliding
as much as 1.4 percent. Banks fell 1.7 percent as a group for
the biggest decline among 19 industries.  Spanish Banks  Spain’s IBEX led losses among European national benchmarks.
The nation’s seven biggest banks need 68 billion euros of
additional capital as a buffer against bad loans and to meet
regulatory requirements, Royal Bank of Scotland analysts said.
 Bankia SA (BKIA)  slumped 5.8 percent as JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut the
shares to underweight, the equivalent of sell, and said the
Spanish lender risks becoming a “zombie bank” that has to rely
on the  European Central Bank  for funding.  Mediaset SpA sank 11 percent as the broadcaster controlled
by former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said first-
quarter profit dropped 85 percent on lower advertising sales.
Bekaert NV, the world’s largest maker of steel cord for tires,
surged 9.9 percent in Brussels after reporting sales that beat
some analysts’ estimates.  The euro weakened 0.7 percent versus the yen, falling for
the fourth straight day, as the shared European currency slid
against 12 of 16 major peers. The  Dollar Index , which tracks the
U.S. currency against those of six trading partners, rose for
the eighth day, the longest run of gains since September 2008.  Yen Rallies  The yen strengthened against all 16 major peers, gaining
0.2 percent to 79.68 per dollar. The Japanese currency will end
the year at 83 versus the dollar, according to the median of 49
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Toyota Motor Corp., which
forecast profit will more than double in the year ending March
2013, is basing the outlook on an exchange rate of 80 yen to the
dollar and 105 yen to the euro.  The yield on the Spanish 10-year bond climbed 23 basis
points to 6.08 percent, driving its premium to benchmark German
bunds to the highest since November. The yield on the German 10-
year bund, Europe’s benchmark government debt security, slid to
a record 1.497 percent as the nation sold 4.03 billion euros of
five-year notes.  “Until it becomes clearer that an accident in  Greece  can
again be avoided, risk appetite is unlikely to recover,”
 Christoph Rieger , head of interest-rate strategy at Commerzbank
AG in Frankfurt, wrote in a note today.  Greek Government  Evangelos Venizelos , the socialist Pasok leader and former
finance minister, said he’ll try to form a new Greek government
when he receives a three-day mandate from President Karolos
Papoulias tomorrow. Pasok today rejected terms for a government
set by Alexis Tsipras of Greece’s anti-bailout Syriza party
which then gave up its bid to build a coalition.  Fifteen of 24 commodities in the S&P GSCI Index retreated,
led by declines of more than 2.4 percent in wheat and corn and
losses of at least 0.6 percent in silver, gold, lead, nickel and
zinc.  Oil in New York dropped 20 cents to $96.81 a barrel as U.S.
Energy Department data showed stockpiles climbed 3.65 million
barrels to 379.5 million, the most since August 1990.
Inventories were forecast to advance 2 million barrels,
according to the median of 12 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. The six-day decline is the longest since July 2010.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  sank 1.3 percent to the lowest
level since Jan. 19, with Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average
retreating 1.5 percent. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index declined
1.5 percent to the lowest level in almost four months. Benchmark
gauges in  China  and Indonesia lost more than 1 percent and South
Korea’s Kospi Index slipped 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  