-- Asia to Fill Project Finance Void Left by Europe, Banks Say
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-05-09T06:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/asia-to-fill-project-finance-void-left-by-europeans-bankers-say.html
Asian lenders are becoming more active
in the region’s project finance loan market as European banks
retreat, according to Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. and
Southeast Asia’s largest bank,  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)   European lenders’ share of the Asia-Pacific loans market
fell to 10.8 percent this year from 16.2 percent in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. BNP Paribas SA’s share
dropped to 0.4 percent from 1.1 percent while  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) 
has gone from being the no. 22 ranked arranger to the 50th.
Project finance loans fell 50 percent to $17.2 billion since
Dec. 31 compared with the same period of 2011, the lowest since
2009, the data show.  “The French banks have been noticeably absent from the
market leaving it to the Japanese banks and a handful of others
to provide the necessary liquidity,” Mark Giblett, SMBC’s group
head of project finance for Asia, said in a phone interview from
 Singapore . “For jumbo project finance deals this lack of
liquidity will be an issue.”  Singapore Power Ltd. hired Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd., DBS, Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp., SMBC and  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  to help arrange a
S$1.5 billion ($1.2 billion) 10-year project finance deal, three
people familiar with the matter said yesterday. The facility
will be this year’s third-biggest after PT Krakatau Posco’s
$1.73 billion loan, which included a $1.2 billion tranche from
Export-Import Bank of Korea, the data show.  The year’s second-biggest project finance facility is a
$1.35 billion-equivalent deal for Youngchun-Sangju Highway Co.  “Funding from export credit agencies is becoming even more
important to close off any possible financing gaps,” said
Giblett, ahead of today’s Asia-Pacific Loan Market Association
project finance seminar in Singapore. Export-Import Bank of
 Korea  and  Japan Bank for International Cooperation  are among
lenders increasing their activities, he said.  Loan volumes are low this year due in part to the lack of
deals from developed economies, which take a shorter amount of
time to complete, according to Lim Wee Seng, managing director
of energy, chemical and infrastructure project finance at DBS.  “The pipeline has been a bit slow because we’re still
cultivating opportunities in Malaysia, Indonesia and Vietnam,”
Lim said, noting that regional banks are increasingly “stepping
in to fill the funding gap.”  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis has also unnerved borrowers
in the region, said Anita George, the chief investment officer
of International Finance Corp., the World Bank division that
lends to companies in  emerging markets .  “There’s lower demand for major projects in  Asia  as
companies adopt a wait-and-see approach due to the
uncertainty,” George, who is today’s keynote speaker, said in a
phone interview ahead of the seminar. “Even though the
financial crisis is mostly in Europe and the West it’s had an
impact here because a lot of European banks which were lending
in this space have disappeared.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  