-- Asia Currency Options Least Bearish in Year on Yuan Risk
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-05-10T06:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/asia-currency-options-least-bearish-in-year-on-yuan-risk.html
Options traders are the least bearish
on Asian currencies versus the dollar in a year as confidence
builds that  China  will avoid a so-called hard landing, helping
lure funds as Europe’s debt crisis deepens.  The premium charged for the right to sell China’s yuan in a
month over contracts to buy the currency, known as the risk-
reversal rate, was 15 basis points as of 2:14 p.m. in  Shanghai ,
down from 64 basis points at the end of last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Among 22 emerging-market currencies,
nine of the 10 lowest rates are in Asia with an average premium
of 71 basis points on May 2, the lowest since April 2011.
Traders pay 375 basis points extra for the right to sell
Brazil’s real, the biggest premium among developing nations.  The more positive outlook for emerging  Asia , whose 10
biggest economies hold half of the world’s $10 trillion in
currency reserves, reflects healthy government finances that
make the region a preferred investment destination, according to
Standard Chartered Plc. The ratio of public debt to gross
domestic product in China is 44 percent and that in  Thailand ,
whose currency is the second-least bearish based on the risk-
reversal rate, is 41 percent. Brazil’s ratio is 54 percent.  “Asian nations continue to flourish, resulting in above-
average growth,” Douglas Borthwick, the head of foreign-
exchange trading at Faros Trading LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
said in a May 4 interview. “Asian emerging-market currencies
continue to be attractive for investors.”  Chiang Mai Initiative  Japan, China, South Korea and 10 Southeast Asian nations
agreed on May 3 to boost the so-called Chiang Mai Initiative
Multilateralization agreement, which involves a pool of foreign-
currency reserves, to $240 billion from $120 billion.  Borthwick said out-of-the-money dollar put options “seem
good value given Asian currency strength appears inevitable,
especially given the update in the Chiang Mai Initiative.”  The
contracts give the right, but not the obligation, to sell the
dollar at a strike price below the current market rate.  The risk reversal for the baht, the smallest after the  yuan ,
narrowed 14 basis points this year to 61 basis points, and the
rate for  Taiwan ’s dollar fell 17 basis points, or 0.17
percentage point, to 69 basis points. The rate for the
Philippine peso slumped to 97 basis points from 150 basis points.  Growth, Ratings  Developing Asian economies grew 7.8 percent in 2011,
compared with 5.3 percent for central and eastern Europe and 4.5
percent for  Latin America , according to the  International
Monetary Fund . The average cost of insuring emerging Asia’s
sovereign debt for five years using credit-default swaps fell 34
basis points this year to 158 yesterday. That compares with 310
basis points for Latin America and 373 for emerging  Europe .  Strong economic growth and improving credit ratings make
emerging Asia the best currency bet globally, according to
Daniel Janis, a global fixed-income portfolio manager at
Manulife Asset Management in  Boston . Moody’s Investors Service
raised Indonesia to investment grade this year, while  Greece ,
 Spain , Italy and Portugal were all downgraded.  “We like Asia ex-Japan first,” Janis, who directly
oversees some $11.2 billion, said in an interview yesterday in
Singapore. “If we‘re going to have a position versus the  U.S.
dollar , we would want to have the Asia currencies unhedged.”  Asian currencies  slid to the lowest level since January
yesterday as Greek politicians struggled to form a new
government, adding to concern Europe’s debt crisis will slow
global growth.  Export Data  Malaysian exports contracted 0.1 percent in March from a
year earlier, official data showed yesterday, compared with a
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey for a 3
percent gain. China announced today exports increased 4.9
percent in April from a year earlier, less than the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey for an 8.5 percent increase and
an 8.9 percent gain the previous month.  “We will likely see greater headwinds from the negative
impact of elections in Europe and that could cast negative
sentiment over Asian currencies,” said Yeah Kim Leng, chief
economist at RAM Holdings Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur .  Asian economies are stabilizing. China’s  manufacturing 
expanded for a fifth month in April while its foreign-exchange
 reserves  climbed 3.9 percent in the first quarter of 2012 to
$3.3 trillion, official data show. Consumer-price gains slowed
to 3.4 percent last month from 3.6 percent in March, according
to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey
before data tomorrow. That would be the third straight month
that inflation has been within the government’s 4 percent target,
making it easier for policy makers to focus on growth in the
world’s second-largest economy.  External Surpluses  Gross domestic product in China increased 8.1 percent from
a year earlier in the first quarter, the least since mid-2009,
and signs of stabilization have led to a reduction in bets that
the dollar will appreciate, said Callum Henderson, global head
of foreign-exchange research in Singapore at Standard Chartered.  “Asian countries typically run external surpluses and
these should fundamentally lead to more favorable risk reversals
for their currencies,” said Henderson. He sees the “best
medium-term value” in the Taiwan dollar and  South Korea ’s won,
adding that he also likes the Philippine peso.  Asian currencies typically have lower volatility, a measure
of foreign-exchange swings used to price options, as the
region’s accumulated currency reserves allow policy makers to
guard against extreme movements in their currencies.  Among  emerging markets , eight currencies with the 10 lowest
volatilities are in Asia, led by China at 1.85 percent, Taiwan
at 4.3 percent and Thailand at 4.51 percent. Implied volatility
on one-month options for the Hungarian forint was the highest at
15.7 percent, followed by South Africa’s rand at 14.6 percent.  Soft Risk Appetite  “In periods of soft global risk appetite, Asian currencies
typically tend to outperform slightly,” Olivier Desbarres, the
head of foreign-exchange strategy for Asia-Pacific ex- Japan  at
 Barclays Capital  in Singapore, said in an interview on May 8.
“They are expected to be more stable due to overall stronger
macro fundamentals and importantly, the prospect of central bank
intervention to support the currencies should they come under
more acute pressure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 