-- Atletico Wins Second Europa League Title in Three Seasons
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-05-10T01:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/atletico-madrid-beats-athletic-bilbao-3-0-in-europa-league-final.html
Atletico Madrid  beat Athletic Bilbao
3-0 to win its second Europa League soccer title in three
seasons as Radamel Falcao again made the difference.  The Colombian striker scored twice and Diego once in last
night’s all-Spanish final in Bucharest. Falcao, who got the only
goal for Porto in last season’s final, led the tournament with
 12 goals  and has scored 29 times in 29 career games in  Europe ’s
second-tier club competition.  “Big players run a risk because they have experience, but
if they can’t put their past wins to one side and get excited
for a final their experience counts for nothing,” Atletico
coach Diego Simeone said at a news conference. “Falcao is the
best example. He forgot what he did last year and because of
that he could live the moment.”  Atletico, which beat Fulham in the 2010 final, won 12 games
en route to the title and lost just once in 19 matches in the
competition. It was the fifth time in nine seasons a Spanish
club won the trophy and  Spain ’s seven championships are now
second-most to  Italy ’s nine.  Falcao put Atletico ahead after seven minutes as he carried
the ball into the right side of the area, took one touch toward
the middle and curled a left-foot shot just inside the far post
into the top corner.  Top Scorer  It moved him past Schalke’s Klaas-Jan Huntelaar as the top
scorer and made the Colombian the first player to lead the
Europa League, or its predecessor the UEFA Cup, in goals for two
straight years. He scored a record 17 times in helping Porto to
the 2011 title.  “I feel very happy,” Falcao, whom Atletico signed from
Porto for as much as 47 million euros ($60.8 million) in August,
told his club’s website. “You can’t ask for more.”  The opening goal also made Falcao only the second player to
score in successive European finals for different clubs after
former Brazil striker Ronaldo, who achieved the feat with
Barcelona and  Inter Milan  in 1997 and 1998.  Atletico doubled its lead in the 34th minute as Diego
crossed from the left to Falcao, who shaped to shoot with his
right foot before dragging the ball back onto his left and
firing a shot past Gorka Iraizoz.  Bilbao had the better of the chances in the second half,
though was were denied several times by goalkeeper Thibault
Courtois. Diego, who missed the 2009 final for Werder Bremen
through suspension, then clinched the victory with an 85th-
minute shot into the corner on a counterattack.  Simeone, who took over in December, is the third person to
win the competition as both a player and coach. The former
Argentina midfielder, who had two spells at Atletico as a player,
also helped Inter Milan to the UEFA Cup title in 1998.  “Winning is always great,” Simeone added. “As a player
you enjoy it more because you’re on the pitch, you can run, you
can shout. As a coach you have to stay composed. You know it’s
the players’ moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  