-- Aussie Dollar Gains as Jobless Rate Unexpectedly Drops
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-05-10T06:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/aussie-near-weakest-this-year-bond-yields-at-record-lows.html
Australia ’s dollar advanced versus
all 16 of its major counterparts after the nation’s jobless rate
unexpectedly dropped in April to the lowest in a year.  The so-called Aussie gained versus the dollar and yen as
technical indicators signaled its declines this week may have
been too rapid. It held an advance even after a report showed
lower-than-estimated export and import growth in China, the
South Pacific nation’s biggest export destination.  New Zealand ’s
currency rose, halting an eight-day decline.  “It was quite a shock drop in terms of unemployment,”
Callum Henderson, global head of currency research at Standard
Chartered Plc in Singapore, said about Australia’s jobs data.
“The Aussie may gain for the next few days, but today’s bounce
is noise rather than the trend.”  The Australian dollar added 0.6 percent to $1.0115 as of
4:13 p.m. in Sydney after falling 1.4 percent in the past two
days. It gained 0.7 percent to 80.60 yen. The Aussie’s relative
strength index versus the greenback fell to 30.53 yesterday,
nearing the 30 level that some traders see as a signal an asset
may reverse direction. Against the yen, it had been at 25.10.  New Zealand’s currency rose 0.4 percent to 78.72 U.S. cents
and advanced 0.5 percent to 62.74 yen.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index of shares was little changed
after slumping 1.3 percent yesterday.  Australia’s  unemployment rate  fell to 4.9 percent from 5.2
percent in March, the statistics bureau said today. That’s the
lowest since April 2011 and compares with a median forecast for
an advance to 5.3 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  No Trend Change  “The key surprise from today’s employment report was the
surprisingly large drop in the  unemployment rate ,”  Todd Elmer ,
head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy for Asia excluding
 Japan  at Citigroup Inc. in Singapore, wrote in a research note
today. “Still, we doubt that the reading will be sufficient to
change the trend in AUD since domestic variables are very much
second-tier drivers of AUD in relation to global factors.”  The Aussie has lost 2 percent this year, the worst
performance after the yen among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes.  The currency trimmed an earlier advance after the release
of Chinese trade data added to concern that a slowdown in the
world’s  second-biggest economy  will damp the outlook for
Australia’s commodity exports.  Chinese Trade  Overseas shipments rose 4.9 percent from a year earlier,
 China ’s customs bureau said on its website today. That compared
with the 8.5 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg poll. Import
growth of 0.3 percent trailed forecasts for a 10.9 percent
increase.  Australian bonds pared gains after an earlier rally pushed
yields to all-time lows. The 10-year bond rate was at 3.32
percent after reaching a record 3.305 percent. The three-year
yield was little changed at 2.66 percent after earlier touching
2.597 percent.  New Zealand’s currency declined yesterday to 78.14 U.S.
cents, the weakest since Jan. 9. The nation’s  two-year swap
rate , a fixed payment made to receive floating rates, rose five
basis points to 2.57 percent. It fell to an all-time low of 2.46
percent on May 7, below the central bank’s official cash rate of
2.50 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  