-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Drop as Greece Concern Reduces Risk Demand
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-05-09T21:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/aussie-n-z-dollars-drop-as-greece-concern-reduces-risk-demand.html
Australia ’s and  New Zealand ’s dollars
fell, with the kiwi continuing its longest losing streak since
2001, as concern mounted that  Greece  won’t be able to form a
government and that the nation may leave the currency union.  Unrest in Greece and speculation earlier that it wouldn’t
receive its next installment of aid from the region’s bailout
fund damped demand for higher-yielding assets. The South Pacific
nations’ currencies pared losses after officials said Greece
would receive its next aid payment.  The Aussie slumped 0.7 percent to $1.0051 yesterday in New
York, falling as low as $1.0021, the weakest level since Dec.
20. It dropped 1 percent to 80.04 yen.  New Zealand’s currency weakened 0.5 percent to 78.41 U.S.
cents, falling for an eighth day in its longest slide since
2001. The kiwi, as the currency is nicknamed, lost 0.8 percent
to 62.44 yen.  The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of equities tumbled 0.8 percent.  Greece’s political turmoil looked set to enter a fourth day
with coalition talks deadlocked, raising the possibility that
another election will have to be held as early as next month.  Evangelos Venizelos , the socialist Pasok leader and former
finance minister, said he’ll try to form a government when he
receives a three-day mandate from President Karolos Papoulias
tomorrow. Pasok today rejected terms for a government set by
Alexis Tsipras of Greece’s anti-bailout Syriza party which then
gave up its bid to build a coalition.  The European Financial Stability Facility’s board of
directors confirmed the release of 5.2 billion euros ($6.7
billion) from a first installment of 39.4 billion euros by the
end of June, the EFSF said in an e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  