-- Auto Sales Fastest Since 2008 Ripple to Union Pacific
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-05-09T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/auto-sales-fastest-since-2008-ripple-to-union-pacific.html
Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  and  Norfolk
Southern Corp. (NSC)  are piggybacking off a resurgence in U.S. auto
sales that’s generating the most business for railroads in four
years.  American rail  shipments  of motor vehicles and parts in the
final week of March totaled 17,283 carloads, the highest since
June 2008, data from the Association of American Railroads show.
A 21 percent jump in April compared with the same month in 2011
trailed only a surge in shipments of petroleum, the group said.  Auto sales that averaged almost  14.5 million  at an annual
rate in the first four months of 2012 accounted for about 30
percent of the gain in Norfolk Southern’s first-quarter revenue
and 14 percent of Union Pacific’s, based on company data.
Strength in the motor-vehicle industry, which has helped fuel
U.S. growth, extends from the Port of Charleston in  South
Carolina  to the Mexican border at Laredo, Texas, benefiting
truckers and railroad-equipment manufacturers in between.  “What’s good for autos is good for the economy,” said
 Peter Nesvold , an analyst in  New York  with Jefferies & Co.
“Both supplies and finished products have to be moved. Capacity
is fairly tight. If autos continue to improve, capacity will get
tighter,” and the rates companies can charge for shipments
“will start to get better.”  Omaha, Nebraska-based Union Pacific, the largest U.S. rail
carrier, said automotive volume rose 15 percent in January-
March, while  CSX Corp. (CSX) , the biggest eastern railroad, had an 18
percent gain. Norfolk Southern saw a 23 percent increase. The
Norfolk, Virginia-based carrier, the second-biggest in the
eastern U.S., reported first-quarter revenue rose by $169
million; $49 million was auto-related.  ‘A Lot of Scurrying’  “The movement of new cars to dealers has picked up
tremendously,” said Charles Clowdis, managing director of
transportation-advisory services at IHS Global Insight in
Lexington,  Massachusetts . “There is a lot of scurrying going on
to be able to handle the demand. Railroads are seeing the same
thing as the specialized-car haulers.”  Nesvold has a “buy” rating on Jacksonville, Florida-based
CSX, Union Pacific and  Ryder System Inc. (R)  in Miami, which manages
supply shipments for automotive and other industries. Motor-
vehicle exposure isn’t the main reason for his recommendations:
The rail companies have been able to boost revenue consistently
and raise prices in recent years, partly because there are
barriers to entry for competitors, he said.  Railroads Outperforming  That’s reflected in the Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Railroads Index -- comprised of Union Pacific, CSX, Norfolk
Southern and Kansas City Southern -- which has risen  29 percent 
since September 2011, compared with a  21 percent  gain for the
 S&P 500 Index .  Vehicles are “an important support to the transport
sector,” said Sophia Koropeckyj, managing director at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in West Chester,  Pennsylvania . “Since 2009,
motor-vehicle and parts production has doubled and is now nearly
back to where it was in 2007.” The 18-month recession began in
December of that year.  Auto production has a greater multiplier effect than most
other industries on transportation and the rest of the economy,
said Chad Moutray, chief economist at the National Association
of Manufacturers in  Washington . For each dollar spent, an
additional $2.02 of output is generated, so “undoubtedly, the
growth in the motor-vehicle sector is having spillover
effects,” he said.  Alan Krueger, chairman of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers, noted the ripple effect when he called for
fiscal policies aimed at bolstering U.S. factory jobs.  ‘Above its Weight’  “Manufacturing punches above its weight,” Krueger said in
an April 26  speech  at  Columbia University  in New York. Factories
tend to group together geographically and create “significant
spillovers within local industrial clusters,” he said.  Auto suppliers have benefited from this year’s strength as
well. The outlook for steel is, “given the automotive
production, pretty bullish,” CSX Chief Executive Officer
Michael Ward said in an interview April 18.  Chief Marketing Officer Donald Seale of Norfolk Southern
agreed with that assessment. “Our outlook for our steel and
automotive businesses remains positive,” he said on an April 24
conference call. “We have an automotive market that’s extremely
good and the steel market is following that. So we see good
opportunity.”  Canceled Shutdown  Chrysler Group LLC said May 2 that four of its North
American plants will skip normally scheduled two-week midyear
shutdowns to meet increased demand. Two more plants will close
for one week rather than two, according to the Auburn Hills,
Michigan-based company.  General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s top seller of cars and
light trucks, boosted its forecast on May 1 for full-year U.S
light-vehicle sales to as much as 14.5 million from 14 million.
The Detroit-based company cited better-than-expected industry
sales in the first quarter and forecasts that the  U.S. economy 
will keep growing.  Gross domestic product will expand 2.3 percent this year,
according to the median estimate of 75 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News from April 6 to April 11. The world’s largest
economy grew 1.7 percent last year. First-quarter auto purchases
were the strongest in four years, and the pace picked up in
April to a  14.38 million  annual rate from 14.32 million a month
earlier, Ward’s Automotive Group data showed.  ‘Nice Boost’  It was “a nice boost for us,” Jack Koraleski, president
and chief executive officer at Union Pacific, said in an April
19 telephone interview. “And if that continues through the
year, that should give us some opportunity to help offset some
of the softness we see in coal.” Cheaper natural gas has
prompted some companies and utilities to make the switch from
coal, resulting in fewer shipments of hopper rail cars designed
to carry bulk commodities.  Sustained  consumer spending  for automobiles will depend on
additions to employment and higher wages. While payrolls climbed
by 115,000 workers in April, the increase was the smallest in
six months, according to Labor Department data released last
week. Average hourly earnings, at $23.38, were little changed
from March, the jobs report showed.  “At least a portion of strength in vehicle sales could be
attributed to fleet replacement,” said  Diane Swonk , chief
economist at Mesirow Financial Inc. in  Chicago . “Underlying
consumer demand has come back more modestly, which has some
multiplier effects for the broader economy but must continue to
help.”  Transcending Borders  The auto industry’s rebound is transcending borders.
Manufacturing in  Mexico  is projected to rise more than 40
percent by 2015, and that also will benefit U.S. transportation
companies, David Starling,  Kansas City Southern (KSU) ’s president and
chief executive officer, said on an April 24 conference call.
KCS runs operations across the U.S.-Mexico border and is
profiting from a pickup in two-way trade, crossing the Rio
Grande in the Texas towns of Laredo and Brownsville.  “Auto production has a ripple effect, as new plants
provide an opportunity for KCS to move raw material and auto
parts into Mexico and then finished vehicles for the local
markets, U.S. and Canada, as well as exports” throughout the
region, he said.  Container volume in the Port of Charleston rose 12 percent
in March, the strongest month for containerized traffic at the
port since October 2008. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s exports
of BMW vehicles and other similar cargo handled at Charleston’s
Columbus Street Terminal had their  best month  since March 2008,
according to the Port of Charleston’s website. The company makes
vehicles in Spartanburg, South Carolina.  Rail-car makers are getting a boost, too.  Greenbrier Cos. (GBX) 
will start producing a new vehicle carrier in the fourth quarter
with small changes from the one it replaces.  “The automotive market is really hot right now,” William Furman, the Lake Oswego, Oregon, company’s president and chief
executive officer said in an April 9 conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  