-- Bacharach-David Award Draws Wonder, Krall, Lovett, Crow
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-05-09T15:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/bacharach-david-award-draws-wonder-krall-lovett-crow.html
Dionne Warwick performed “What the
World Needs Now Is Love” last night at the Library of Congress.  The crowd, which included Secretary of Homeland Security
Janet Napolitano and Supreme Court Justice  Samuel Alito , sang
along.  The song’s composer/lyricist team, Burt Bacharach and Hal
David, were honored with the Library of Congress Gershwin Prize
for Popular Song during a dinner and concert that featured
Sheryl Crow,  Stevie Wonder , Lyle Lovett and Diana Krall. Crow
and Lovett sang a duet on “I’ll Never Fall in Love Again.”  During his rendition of “What’s New Pussycat,” comedian
Mike Myers peeled off his suit to reveal a sparkly Elvis
Presley-like outfit. Afterward, he grew somber recalling how
much his late father enjoyed Bacharach and David’s songs.  Bacharach, 83, said the prize was “the best of all
awards,” adding that he accepted it “with a heavy heart” as
his long-time collaborator, who is 90, was too ill to attend.  The prize was established in 2007 to continue the spirit of
Ira and George Gershwin by supporting musical and literary
projects. Previous winners include Wonder,  Paul Simon  and  Paul McCartney .  “It’s Gershwin, so it wouldn’t be rap music,” said
Senator Pat Roberts, the Kansas Republican, explaining why he
attended the event with his daughter and wife. “I’d rather go
to the dentist than listen to rap music.”  Ornate Ceiling  Senator Patrick Leahy, the Vermont Democrat and an avid
photographer, took shots of the ornate ceiling in the library’s
Thomas Jefferson Building and regaled guests with stories about
how Vermonters helped build it.  Former Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle caught up with
his one-time fundraiser Melissa Maxfield, now the senior vice
president for congressional and federal government affairs for
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , while Napolitano chatted with Italian ambassador
Claudio Bisogniero.  Paul Pelosi, the investor husband of House Minority Leader
 Nancy Pelosi , the California Democrat, said he didn’t mind that
the popular Bacharach-David hit “Do You Know the Way to San
Jose?” was left off the program, because as a San Franciscan,
he never cared for the song.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include: Martin Gayford on  London
art , Ryan Sutton on  food .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in  Washington  at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 