-- Baha Calling Gundlach ‘Jerk’ Bolsters Standing
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-05-09T04:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/baha-calling-gundlach-jerk-bolsters-standing.html
Calling a person who outranks you a
jerk isn’t usually a smart step if you want to climb the ladder
to success. It worked for Bonnie Baha.  Back in the 1990s, Baha was a vice president on the trading
floor of TCW Group Inc., listening to  Jeffrey Gundlach , a
managing director, dressing down one of her colleagues.  “Jeffrey,” she recalls asking him, “why are you such a
freaking jerk?” Gundlach gave her a sharp look and ignored the
question, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its June issue.
The next morning, when he strolled into her office, Baha says
she thought he was going to fire her. Instead, he explained his
behavior.  “I remember coming away from that conversation thinking,
‘You know, I kind of get him now,’” Baha, now 52, says. “And
it’s been that way ever since.” Baha has worked with Gundlach
for 22 years, currently as head of the global developed-credit
group at his  DoubleLine Capital LP (DBLTX) , which manages $34 billion of
assets.  Gundlach, DoubleLine’s founder and chief executive officer,
recalls the exchange.  “I’m somebody that everybody seems to have an opinion
about,” he says. “The reason I’m so polarizing is, if I don’t
respect someone or don’t think highly of someone, it’s like they
don’t exist, and people don’t like to be invisible.”  Unpopular Calls  Being visible has paid off for Baha and Gundlach. The $2
billion  DoubleLine Core Fixed Income Fund (DBLFX)  she manages returned
11.5 percent in 2011 compared with 7.8 percent for the Barclays
U.S. Aggregate Total Return Index, a benchmark for U.S. bonds.
The fund returned 3.3 percent this year through May 7, compared
with 1.7 percent for the benchmark, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Baha says she’s successful partly because she’s not afraid
to make an unpopular call. She ordered TCW traders to sell any
 Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc. debt they owned, even at a loss,
in the first week of September 2008, when the debt was valued at
more than 90 cents on the dollar.  Lehman filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008, plunging the
value to the single digits. “People don’t pay me to hope; they
pay me to make an assessment,” Baha says. “If you are  managing
risk  by hoping that somebody is going to buy Lehman Brothers or
whatever other bank is in trouble, you’re not really doing your
job.”  Dropping MF Global  Gundlach supports Baha’s decisions. On Oct. 25, she e-
mailed the trading desk asking that it drop dealings with one of
the firm’s counterparties,  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , citing her
“concerns about overall risk management and governance.”  DoubleLine traders objected, pointing out that they had
done almost $5.4 million of business with MF Global in the third
quarter. “I said, ‘Jeffrey, I want ’em off,’ and I said, ‘I’m
getting a little bit of pushback,’” Baha says. “All I got was an
e-mail back from Jeffrey Gundlach saying, ‘Remove them.’” The
next day, DoubleLine closed out its business with MF Global,
which filed for bankruptcy on Oct. 31.  “She’s very low risk, and I think that’s good, and that
fits in with our philosophy,” Gundlach says. “The MF Global
thing was really the first semi-controversial deletion. Who knew
that a week later… It fell apart pretty fast.”  Baha originally aimed at a career in  investment banking 
after earning her Master of Business Administration at the
University of  Southern California . A frazzled male interviewer
from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised her to try asset
management instead.  Still ‘Clubby Place’  “This is a great business for women, and it’s a great
business if you have a great boss,” Baha says. A money manager’s
performance can be measured in numbers based on the  daily price 
of assets, she says, making it much more objective than measures
of investment-banking prowess.  “ Wall Street  is still a very clubby place,” Baha says.
“Firms on the buy side and the sell side are still pretty much
male-dominated. Still, Jeffrey is the most fair and rational
person I have ever worked for.”  Baha met her Algerian-born husband, Mustapha Baha, who’s
now an angel investor, while at USC, where he earned a master’s
degree in construction management. The couple have two teenage
children, who joke with guests in Arabic, English and French
over dinners of couscous served with three types of harissa for
different spice tolerances.  Baha says Gundlach values quality of life, and that sets
the tone for the whole company. “If it’s anything to do with
family -- you want to leave early, you want to stay home -- no
questions asked,” Baha says of her employees. “You don’t get
those years back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 