-- Bank of America CEO Faces Shareholder Ire Amid Protests
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-05-09T21:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/bank-of-america-meets-shareholders-as-protests-swirl.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
biggest U.S. lender, is following a “disciplined” strategy to
rebuild, Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said today as
protests swirled inside and outside the firm’s annual meeting.  Moynihan, 52, presided over a contentious two-hour
gathering as  shareholders  pressed him on complaints ranging from
mortgage practices and foreclosures to  customer service  and
political contributions. One attendee at the Charlotte, North
Carolina event lamented the lost value of his shares and
referred to the bank as “a felon.”  “We abide by the law every day,” Moynihan said, adding
that managers are cleaning up the bank’s practices and that
50,000  employees  are giving borrowers “every chance” to get
mortgage modifications. “I think we’re doing everything we
can,” he said.  Investors and protesters from  San Francisco  to  London  have
used shareholder meetings this year to denounce financial firms
for making shoddy loans and overpaying executives. Bank of
America’s stock has lost almost half its value since the start
of 2010, when Moynihan was named CEO.  Much of the criticism stems from Bank of America’s 2008
takeover of Countrywide Financial Corp. The subprime lender has
been blamed by lawmakers for fueling the housing collapse, by
regulators for sloppy and discriminatory lending and by
investors for driving more than $40 billion of costs tied to
soured mortgages and improper foreclosures.  Mortgage Servicing  At least three speakers at the meeting told Moynihan that
the bank has failed to improve  mortgage servicing  after years of
complaints that employees gave wrong information, didn’t return
phone calls and repeatedly lost paperwork.  “You’ve got to do something about your mortgage
servicing,” one speaker told Moynihan. The CEO told borrowers
in the hall and “everyone out there” that he personally
pledged the bank would work with them. “You can call us and we
will figure it out,” he said, eliciting laughter in the
audience as he encouraged them to dial a toll-free number.
Moynihan said 1 million modifications have been completed, “and
I don’t think we could have done that without being competent.”  He fielded repeated pleas to halt funding for coal mining,
including techniques that involve removing entire mountaintops
because of the effect on communities and the environment, and
some audience members accused the bank of ducking U.S. taxes.
The CEO said coal funding would be reviewed and that the company
has paid billions of dollars in taxes.  Marching on BofA  Hundreds of protesters in three separate marches converged
on Bank of America’s headquarters, decrying foreclosure
practices and what they called corporate greed.  Police flanked the marchers, who chanted, banged on drums
and carried banners. A mock boxing match was staged between a
Moynihan impersonator and a representative of the “99 percent”
of people who aren’t in the wealthiest tier of Americans, meant
to highlight  income inequality . Police arrested at least four
people, the  Charlotte Observer  newspaper said on its website.  Metal barricades kept protesters away from the building
entrance. Judith Koenick, with one arm in a sling, held a
placard that read, “Bank of America stole $500,000 from me.”
She was asked to give up the sign before entering the
auditorium.  Koenick, a retiree from  Chevy Chase ,  Maryland , said the
lender’s share decline forced her to liquidate holdings and make
do with less income from dividends. Bank of America has a 1-cent
 quarterly payout , down from 64 cents before the financial
crisis.  Timers With Chimes  “He has the audacity to get up there and say he’s not
responsible for the things that Countrywide did,” Koenick said
after the meeting. “They bought it.”  Inside, investors as well as Bank of America’s workers wore
stickers that said “Shareholders 2012,” with a different color
for the staff. The label referred to the event rather than the
individual, according to  Scott Silvestri , a company spokesman.
Moynihan set a two-minute limit on individual comments and
questions with a timer and a chime, and banned the use of
recorders and electronic devices.  Charlotte  city managers said last month that Bank of
America’s meeting is an “ extraordinary event ” that merits
special restrictions on people near the site to prevent
violence, according to the Charlotte Business Journal.  ‘Don’t Feel Threatened’  When a shareholder complained about the level of security,
Moynihan said the rules and measures were meant to protect
everyone. “I don’t feel threatened at all,” he said.  The Charlotte ordinance, drawn up for the Democratic
National Convention later this year, gave police broader powers
to search individuals, outlawing items including permanent
markers, lumber, pepper spray and padlocks. The Observer
reported that police didn’t use the authority they had been
granted to search backpacks and other containers.  The measures didn’t prevent more than two dozen members of
a group called National People’s Action from attending the
meeting. When Moynihan declared the event over, the activists
stood up and shouted anti-Bank of America slogans until leaving
at the behest of police.  “Many of you people may think there are a lot of crazies
here today, but this is a pushback,” an attendant told Moynihan
moments before. “You’re hearing despair.”  Members linked to Occupy  Wall Street  are among groups
seeking to revive last year’s protests against the nation’s
biggest banks for their role in causing the financial crisis and
gaps between the incomes of the richest and poorest citizens.  Shareholders Rebel  Last month, more than 500 people gathered at  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) ’s San Francisco headquarters to disrupt the firm’s annual
meeting. About two dozen were arrested as protesters chained
themselves together to block an entrance to where the meeting
was held, and police helped clear a path for shareholders.  In  New York ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  shareholders rejected the
firm’s executive-pay plan on April 16, the first time that’s
happened among the six largest U.S. banks. Directors awarded
Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 55, about $15 million for
2011 plus a multiyear retention package that may be worth $40
million. While the bank promised to meet  shareholders  to
consider changes, no revisions have been announced.  Moynihan was awarded a $7 million pay package for last
year, with shareholders approving the compensation plan in an
advisory vote today with 92 percent of the ballots, according to
a preliminary tally. Citigroup and Bank of America accepted $45
billion each from U.S. taxpayers to help them survive the
financial crisis. The firms have since repaid the bailouts.  In  Europe , Andrew Moss quit as CEO of  Aviva Plc (AV/) , the
second-biggest U.K. insurer, after investors voted down the
compensation plan, and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  chief  Robert Diamond  was
heckled over pay at the annual meeting. Investors also staged
protests at UBS AG and  Inmarsat Plc (ISAT)  for failing to keep
compensation in line with stock performance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  