-- Bed Bath & Beyond to Buy Cost Plus for $495 Million
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-05-09T20:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/bed-bath-beyond-to-buy-cost-plus-for-495-million.html
Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. (BBBY) , the operator
of more than 1,000 home-furnishings stores, agreed to buy  Cost
Plus Inc. (CPWM)  for about $495 million in cash to add its World Market
and Cost Plus Imports chains.  The offer of about $22 a share will be funded with
available cash, the companies said today in a statement. The
companies expect the deal to be completed in Bed Bath & Beyond’s
fiscal second quarter and add “slightly” to earnings in the
current year. The offer is 22 percent higher than Cost Plus’s
$17.99 closing price yesterday.  The deal would give Bed Bath & Beyond, which operates 1,173
locations in 50 states, 259 new stores while also adding another
e-commerce platform as it competes with retailers ranging from
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  to  Target Corp. (TGT)  Demand at Cost Plus stores has
surged as consumers increase home-related spending amid the
housing market recovery, said Bradley Thomas, an analyst for
Keybanc Capital Markets Inc. in  New York .  “They got the company at a great price,” Thomas said in a
telephone interview. Cost plus was one of the fastest-growing
companies in the home-goods retail industry, and has the
potential to become more profitable and double its locations,
said Thomas, who recommends holding Bed Bath & Beyond shares and
buying Cost Plus.  Bed Bath & Beyond, based in Union,  New Jersey ,  fell  0.3
percent to $68.02 at the close in New York. Shares of Cost Plus,
based in Oakland,  California ,  increased  22 percent to $21.93
after gaining 85 percent this year through yesterday.  Same-Store Sales  Revenue from Cost Plus locations open at least 14 months
rose 5.4 percent last year. So-called same-store sales, a key
metric for a retailer’s growth because new and closed stores are
excluded, gained 5.9 percent at Bed Bath & Beyond last year.
Cost Plus had  revenue  of $963.8 million last year, compared to
$9.5 billion at Bed Bath & Beyond in the period.  The companies had already been working together on testing
Cost Plus products in Bed Bath & Beyond through a so-called
store-in-store concept. Cost Plus offers a different shopping
experience than Bed Bath & Beyond because it sends product
buyers around the world to create a more diverse assortment,
Thomas said.  The deal may add about 15 cents to earnings per share in
Bed Bath & Beyond’s next fiscal year, Thomas said.  Cost Plus’s two largest  shareholders , Red Mountain Capital
Partners LLC and Stephens Holdings LLC, agreed to support the
deal, according to the statement.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is advising Bed Bath & Beyond and
Peter J. Solomon Co. is serving in that role for Cost Plus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  