-- Bekaert Shares Climb as Sales Beat Estimates: Brussels Mover
-- B y   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m
-- 2012-05-09T10:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/bekaert-shares-climb-as-sales-beat-estimates-brussels-mover.html
Bekaert NV (BEKB) , the world’s largest maker
of steel cord for tires, rose the most in almost four years in
Brussels trading after reporting first-quarter sales that beat
some analyst estimates.  The shares climbed as much as 15 percent on Euronext
Brussels, the biggest intraday increase since August 2008, and
traded 2.33 euros higher at 23.86 euros by 12:03 p.m. local
time, trimming the  retreat  so far this year to 3.7 percent.  Sales in the three months through March fell 2.6 percent to
895 million euros ($1.16 billion), Zwevegem, Belgium-based
Bekaert said today in a statement. That beat the 820.5 million-
euro average of two analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales rebounded from the prior quarter in all regions and
countries except  China , where most of the sawing-wire capacity
is based.  “This is significantly above the very weak performance”
of the fourth quarter,  Bernard Hanssens , an analyst at Bank
Degroof in Brussels who has a hold rating on the stock, said in
an investor note. Hanssens had estimated first-quarter sales of
807 million euros. “This trading update provides some relief.”  Excluding the effect of acquisitions, disposals and
currency movements, revenue fell 14 percent in the first quarter
because of a collapse in sawing-wire prices last year, which
followed a 13 percent drop in the preceding three-month period.  “The underlying sales trend is stabilizing, but not
improving,” Emmanuel Carlier, an analyst at ING Groep NV in
Brussels who recommends selling the shares, wrote in a note
today. “The biggest risk is that part of the sawing-wire
capacity will be converted into tire cord at a moment that the
truck tire market is maturing.”  Net debt at the end of March was little changed from 860.5
million euros at the end of last year, according to the company.
The measures taken to restore profitability, including job cuts
and plant closures will produce “positive effects” as of the
middle of this year, Bekaert said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Clapham in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  