-- Belka Says Polish Central Bank Raised Rates to Normalize Policy
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-05-09T15:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/belka-says-polish-central-bank-raised-rates-to-normalize-policy.html
Polish central bank Governor Marek Belka comments on the outlook for interest rates after the
Monetary Policy Council increased the benchmark  interest rate  by
a quarter point today to 4.75 percent, defying forecasts of no
change from 22 of the 31 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The following are selected comments from Belka at a press
conference in Warsaw following the rate decision.  On inflation and the rate increase:  “The statement doesn’t have the sentence that was there in
the previous month, when we clearly tried to communicate that we
could raise rates at the next meeting. There’s no such clear
announcement here, instead we’re saying that we will monitor the
situation. We can’t rule out such a move, but it doesn’t have
the same probability that we tried to communicate a month ago.  “If the decision weren’t needed we wouldn’t have taken it.  “We’re dealing not only with elevated but also with
persistent inflation.  “Inflation in  Poland  is persistently higher than we’re
willing to tolerate. The situation isn’t dramatic, but the
problem with inflation is that when it’s high it can spin out of
control in a non-linear way.  “We think the level of real interest rates in Poland is
quite low, but not ultralow. We can always use interest rates to
protect the economy. We’re now closer to what can be described
as a normal policy. We’re treating this more as a step toward
normalizing than tightening monetary policy.  “If we were thinking about lowering rates, we wouldn’t be
increasing them today.”  On economic growth:  “Although we’re seeing a slowdown, it’s more moderate than
we’d expected.  “We can see that the economy will slow gradually before
accelerating again in 2013. But it doesn’t seem that the pace of
growth would fall below 3 percent for the full year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  