-- Biggest Brazil Price Jump in Year Undermines Rate Cut Goal
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-05-09T14:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/biggest-brazil-price-jump-in-year-undermines-rate-cut-goal-2-.html
Brazilian  consumer prices  rose more
than economists expected in April, jumping the most in a year,
reinforcing bets the central bank will have to unwind interest
rate cuts after lowering borrowing costs to a record low in
coming months.  Prices, as measured by the benchmark IPCA index, rose 0.64
percent in April, the national  statistics agency  said in  Rio de
Janeiro  today. The increase was more than all but three of 47
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg whose median estimate was for a
0.59 percent increase. Annual inflation slowed to 5.10 percent
from 5.24 percent.  A 12.3 percent decline in the real over the past three
months is pushing up the cost of imports, adding to price
pressures in  Latin America ’s biggest economy fueled by near-
record low unemployment. Today’s report reinforces bets that the
central bank will miss its 4.5 percent inflation target this
year as the economy recovers, prompting yields on most interest
rate futures to rise.  “The perception in the market is that the  interest rates 
will continue to fall, but will go up next year,” Jose Francisco de Lima Goncalves, chief economist at Banco Fator SA,
said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo .  Traders expect policy makers to cut the benchmark rate to a
record 8 percent by August before raising it to 9.75 percent by
December 2013. Since August, the central bank has cut the Selic
rate by 350 basis points to revive economic growth that slowed
to 2.7 percent last year from 7.5 percent in 2010.  Savings Changes  To pave way for lower borrowing costs, President  Dilma Rousseff  last week reduced century-old rules guaranteeing
mandatory returns on  savings accounts  should the Selic rate fall
to 8.5 percent or below. The move aims to deter investors from
shifting money from public bonds to savings accounts, which earn
interest tax free and don’t carry asset management fees.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2014 rose 7 basis points to 8.45 percent at 10:40 a.m.
Brasilia time. The real weakened 0.9 percent to 1.9573 per  U.S.
dollar .  An obstacle-free path to lower rates doesn’t necessarily
mean the central bank will cut rates aggressively in the months
ahead. Policy makers said in the minutes to their April 26
policy meeting that any additional monetary easing should be
carried out with “parsimony.”  Tax Cuts  In order to reach its target of 4.5 percent economic growth
this year, the government has also cut taxes on consumer and
industrial goods, increased subsidized credit by the state
development bank BNDES and pledged to boost investments in
infrastructure.  Analysts forecast the government’s effort to boost growth
will prevent inflation from slowing back to target this year and
next, according to a central bank  survey  published May 7.
Consumer prices in  Brazil  will rise 5.12 percent this year and
5.56 percent in 2013, the survey showed. Inflation has been
above the midpoint of the bank’s target range for 21 months.  Personal expenses in April rose 2.23 percent, up from 0.55
percent in the previous month, led by an increase in cigarette
prices and higher salaries for maids and domestic servants.
Housing prices rose 0.8 percent, while food and beverages gained
0.51 percent, the statistics agency said.  Currency Pass-Through  Prices as measured by the Getulio Vargas Foundation’s IGP-
DI index rose 1.02 in April, the most since November 2010 and
nearly twice the 0.56 percent reported the previous month. The
rising cost of imported goods such as petrochemicals has pushed
up the price of agricultural products 3.37 percent so far this
year, according to the index, which measures wholesale, consumer
and construction prices.  Inflationary pressures should ease in the coming months,
allowing the central bank to cut the Selic by a total of 150
basis points in the current easing cycle, said Leonardo Sapienza, chief economist at Banco Votorantim.  “You still have a benign inflation scenario with a poor
global outlook and only moderate domestic economic growth,”
Sapienza said by telephone from Sao Paulo. “There are more than
enough elements that reinforce rate cuts.”  The central bank is no longer pursuing inflation control as
its ultimate goal, Trade Minister Fernando Pimentel told Brasil
Economico yesterday.  While  price stability  remains a necessity, the government’s
final objective is promoting economic growth,  job creation  and
social well-being, Pimentel said in an interview with the Sao
Paulo-based newspaper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  