-- Billabong Hires Inman as Chief Executive to Revive Profit
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-05-09T07:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/billabong-hires-inman-as-chief-executive-to-revive-profit.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) ,
Australia’s largest surf-wear maker, named Launa Inman as chief
executive officer to replace Derek O’Neill as it fights to
revive earnings at its retail network.  Inman, a former head of  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) ’s Target department
store chain, will take the role from May 14, the  Gold Coast ,
Australia-based company said in a regulatory statement. O’Neill
will leave the company today after the board decided Billabong
needed “new leadership and skill sets,” it said.  Billabong hired Inman as a consultant in February,
following her retirement after seven years running Target, as it
began implementing plans to close as many as 150 of its 677
retail outlets and cut 400 jobs. The surf-wear company sold
control of its Nixon watches and accessories unit last month for
$285 million to preserve cash as it tries to manage net debt
which rose to A$526 million ($530 million) at Dec. 31.  Inman has “got a very strong turnaround pedigree,” Grant Saligari, a consumer analyst at Credit Suisse AG in Melbourne,
said by phone. “She took Target from barely making money to the
most profitable department store in the country.”  Billabong’s earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization are expected to fall 18 percent to A$156 million in
the year ended June, according to the average of 13 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Consumer confidence in Billabong’s home market has declined
for eight out of the past ten months, according to a survey by
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and the Melbourne Institute, pressuring
retail spending in the Pacific country. A separate measure of
consumer confidence by Roy Morgan Research  fell  today, even
after the  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut benchmark  interest rates 
by 0.5 percentage points in an effort to kickstart demand.  Billabong  shares  fell 4.6 percent to A$2.29, their lowest
level in nearly three months, at the close of trade in Sydney.
The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index dropped 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  