-- Blackpool to Meet West Ham in Playoff Final for Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-05-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/blackpool-advances-to-english-championship-soccer-playoff-final.html
Blackpool beat Birmingham 3-2 over
two games to join West Ham in the Championship playoff final,
where both will seek an immediate return to English soccer’s
Premier League.  Last night’s 2-2 tie at St. Andrew’s in Birmingham was
enough for Blackpool to advance after it opened the two-match
semifinal with a 1-0 home win six days ago.  The Tangerines and Hammers will meet May 19 at Wembley
Stadium for a place in the Premier League. Both teams were
relegated from the 20-team top flight last year, and West Ham
dominated their two matches this season by winning 4-0 at home
and 4-1 away.  “We feel we’ve got a point to prove after they beat us
convincingly in the two games in the league,” Blackpool
midfielder Matt Phillips said in a televised interview. “We’re
going to go there and give it a good effort.”  The playoff final is the richest soccer match in the world.
Winning it is worth at least 90 million pounds ($145 million),
accountant Deloitte LLP estimates. Promoted teams benefit from
at least 40 million pounds in additional revenue and minimum
guaranteed payments of 48 million pounds in the following four
seasons if they drop straight back down.  Fifty-four percent of all promoted teams retained their
Premier League status the next season, according to Infostrada
Sports. The percentage rises to 63 percent for teams who finish
first in the Championship.  Reading and Southampton were automatically promoted as the
champion and runner-up in the Championship this season.  Second Final  Blackpool will be making its second playoff final
appearance in three seasons. The Tangerines beat Cardiff 3-2 in
2010 to return to the top division for the first time since
1971.  Goals from Stephen Dobbie and Phillips gave Blackpool a 2-0
lead early in the second half last night. Birmingham’s Nikola Zigic scored in the 64th minute and Curtis Davies added a second
goal nine minutes later, though Blackpool held on.  “Halfway through the second half I felt fine,” Blackpool
manager Ian Holloway said. “Once they got a goal it changed
everything. It got the crowd on their side and we forgot to
play. At the end of the day it was about finishing with one more
goal than them and I am very proud of my boys for coming
through.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  