-- Blech, Convicted of Fraud in 1998, Pleads Guilty in New Case
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-05-09T22:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/blech-convicted-of-fraud-in-1998-pleads-guilty-in-new-case-1-.html
David Blech, who was convicted of
investment fraud in 1998 and sentenced to probation, pleaded
guilty to two new charges of manipulating stock prices.  Blech, 56, pleaded guilty today before Magistrate Judge
Frank Maas in federal court in  Manhattan . He was released on
$500,000 bond. Maas set an Aug. 31 sentencing date.  The defendant bought and sold shares in two biotechnology
companies,  Pluristem Therapeutics Inc. (PSTI)  and  Intellect
Neurosciences Inc. (ILNS) , in 2007 and 2008 through his own account and
those of friends and family, according to court papers.
Prosecutors said the buying and selling of the stocks was “a
fraudulent scheme to manipulate the market” by enticing other
investors to purchase the securities and raise their prices.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission today
separately charged Blech and his wife, Margaret Chassman, with
manipulating the biotech stocks.  “When I traded in Pluristem and Intellect by buying and
selling during the same period, for the purpose of stabilizing
the prices of the stock in those companies, I knew what I was
doing was wrong, and violated the securities laws,” Blech said
in his statement to the judge today.  Blech said he made the trades because he became heavily in
debt and was “desperate for money in early 2008.” He said he
lost money on both stocks.  ‘Heavily Medicated’  The judge said he faces a maximum penalty of 40 years in
prison. Blech’s lawyer, Roland Riopelle, said after the hearing
that the government will likely seek a sentence of 41 to 51
months in prison.  “We’re going to advocate for something significantly
less,” Riopelle said. “He himself lost money doing this. There
is an argument to be made for him.”  Riopelle said Blech suffers from manic depression and is
“heavily medicated.” The lawyer said Blech has six children,
some of whom have psychological problems. Some of the money used
to buy the stocks came from a  trust fund  for an autistic child,
Riopelle said.  The judge also ordered him to seek help from Gamblers
Anonymous.  In 1999, Blech was sentenced to five years’ probation for
defrauding nine broker-dealers and Bear Stearns & Co., his
firm’s clearing broker, of $16 million. Blech’s former firm, D.
Blech & Co., underwrote biotechnology stocks. When prices fell,
Bear Stearns demanded that he sell stock to pay his margin
balance, according to court records. To prevent deflation in the
stocks’ prices, Blech transferred shares to accounts he secretly
controlled at other brokerages, according to the records.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Blech, 12-00372, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The SEC case
is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Blech, 12-3703, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 