-- BOJ Nominees Need Policy Vetting by Diet, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2012-05-09T00:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/boj-nominees-need-policy-vetting-by-diet-lawmaker-says.html
Japanese lawmakers should have the
opportunity to interview  Bank of Japan  board nominees before
approving them, a ruling party legislator and a former central
bank official said.  “The current process is insufficient to evaluate a
candidate’s thoughts and career,” Kouhei Ohtsuka, a leader of
the DPJ’s official policy group on countering deflation and a
strong yen, said in an interview this week in  Tokyo .  The strengthening yen and the likelihood that  Japan  will
not achieve the bank’s 1 percent inflation target in 2013 may
compel politicians to call for more stimulus even after the
central bank increased its asset-purchase fund twice this year.
Lawmakers rejected the government’s nomination of BNP Paribas
economist  Ryutaro Kono  to the BOJ policy board last month,
arguing that the analyst had shown a reluctance to undertake
monetary easing.  “There are increasing calls among legislators” to hold
such hearings, said Ohtsuka. In 2008, nominees for the central
bank’s governor and deputy governors were summoned by lawmakers
for questioning before the vote, while in 2003 they were called
to parliament after they were approved. Recent nominees for the
other seats on the policy board were only questioned in the Diet
after their nominations were approved.  To improve the approval process, lawmakers could either
meet candidates before they are officially nominated or have an
opportunity to question them on their views on the economy and
monetary policy in the Diet once their names have been put
forward, Ohtsuka said, adding that no specific plans to alter
the process have been made.  Important Posts  “Without a process in place, we would have to choose
people for extremely important posts without sufficiently
reviewing them,” said Ohtsuka, 52, who worked at the central
bank for more than a decade and has also served as deputy
minister at the Cabinet Office.  The rejection of Kono’s nomination was “extremely
regrettable” given that the economist is well versed in
monetary policy and competent at discussing economic theories,
Ohtsuka said. Even so, “it’s not a problem” that lawmakers
focused on Kono’s stance on monetary easing in the selection
process, he said. Two of the central bank’s nine board members
seats are currently vacant. It would be better to leave the
positions open rather than have parliament rush and fill them
with unqualified candidates, Ohtsuka said.  There has been criticism among politicians that the BOJ
board tends to agree with proposals BOJ staff prepares, which
has prompted lawmakers to look closer at board members’
opinions, Ohtsuka said.  “The BOJ should take it seriously that opposition party
members and some of ruling party members criticize” the policy
stance of the board, he said.  Asset-Purchase Fund  The central bank increased its asset-purchase fund, its
main policy tool, by 10 trillion yen in both February and April.
Economists at Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Credit Suisse
Group AG say easing by the central bank on April 27 was driven
by political pressure.  The yen, which traded at 79.85 against the dollar at 8:52
a.m. in Tokyo today, has climbed more than 4 percent since mid-
March, an advance that may renew concern that a stronger
currency is hampering the nation’s recovery from last year’s
earthquake.  Bank of Japan (8301)  minutes released this week showed government
officials called for “visible results” from efforts to end
deflation and that the central bank should conduct policy
“flexibly and decisively.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  