-- Boss Tweed’s Bondholder Revolt
-- B y   K e n n e t h   D .   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-05-09T16:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/boss-tweed-s-bondholder-revolt.html
How can excessive debt sink a
government? Look no further than New York -- in 1871, under the
leadership of the eminently corrupt William M. Tweed.  Today, the U.S. government  owes some $15.2 trillion . Its
largest group of public creditors comprises foreigners and
foreign governments, led by China and  Japan .  Overseas creditors 
hold $5.1 trillion in U.S. paper and continue to be big buyers
at Treasury auctions. What would happen in the (still unlikely)
event they stopped buying?  Take a look at “Boss” Tweed’s New York. Tweed, the
legendary Grand Sachem of Tammany Hall and a renowned political
fixer, was easily the most corrupt politician in American
history. He and his cronies stole a remarkable amount of money
during their brief reign from 1868 to 1871: Estimates range from
$60 million to $100 million in 1871 dollars, worth many billions
today.  Tweed himself ultimately was convicted on 204 counts of
fraud and died behind bars in  New York ’s Ludlow Street jail as a
disgraced man.  Still, while in power, Tweed ran a happy city. Everyone
made money under his system. Real estate boomed and business
prospered. He financed his corrupt regime on low taxes while
providing good service and plenty of graft for friends. To pay
the tab, he borrowed.  Debt, Debt, Debt  Under Tweed, the city treasury issued oceans of debt:
Croton Aqueduct Bonds, Central Park Improvements Bonds, four
classes of County Court House stock, Bonds for Repayment of
Taxes, Assessment Fund Stock, Park Improvement Bonds, Street
Improvement Bonds. New York’s city and county debt swelled to
more than $97 million by mid-1871 from $36.3 million in January
1869, with interest payments approaching $10 million a year.  Local banks and brokers snapped up these bonds and sold
them to investors in Europe, mostly British and German, who
didn’t know any better and considered them safe.  But that changed in July 1871, when the  New York Times (NYT) 
received a stolen copy of the Tweed Ring’s secret accounts and
published it on its front pages -- disclosing all manner of
fraud and theft, including embezzlement and bill padding on
construction of the Tweed Courthouse in lower  Manhattan . City
leaders read with disbelief.  Thomas Nast’s  clever cartoons  of the time depicted Tweed as
a laughable crook. But one group that found no humor in the
situation was the bondholders. In late July, they cut off
credit. The city put $40,000 in bonds up at auction one day and
failed to receive a single bid. A few days later, the Commercial
and Financial Chronicle warned of a panic. In  Europe , the Berlin
Stock Exchange banned New York’s city and county bonds from its
official trading list.  The city had a looming interest payment of $2.7 million due
Nov. 1, and its agents could no longer raise money in world
markets. “They distrust our securities in  London ,” an unnamed
broker told the New-York Tribune.  If credit dried up and the city defaulted on its debt, the
impact on New York’s wealthy would be devastating, wiping out
their bulging bond portfolios and crippling their standing in
Europe, which was still a principal source of capital for
American finance.  An “insurrection of the capitalists” quickly organized
itself in lower Manhattan. Some 1,000 merchants rushed to sign a
petition refusing to pay any more property taxes until city
officials gave a full account of their spending. Another group
filed a lawsuit to block a city construction project on
Broadway. Calls went out for city leaders to convene publicly on
Sept. 4 -- when wealthy men had returned from their summer
holidays.  The Fall  After that, the fall came quickly. In early September,
reformers won a court injunction demanding an accounting and
blocking any more spending by Tweed’s  City Hall . By October,
Tweed had been indicted, and would soon begin his long journey
through the city and state prison system. The flow of credit
only resumed after the entire Tweed system had been dismantled.  America’s current mountain of debt wasn’t built on fraud
like Tweed’s. Nor did the European bondholders in Tweed’s day
worry that stopping the  money flow  to one city government would
hurt their larger investments portfolios in the long term, as
U.S. creditors today surely would. They demanded regime change -
- replacement of the Tweed Ring with an honest government -- and
they got it.  But there are lessons for modern American politicians here.
First, don’t steal. (Hopefully they know that one already.)
Second, it’s not just in Europe where debt can topple
governments -- in a pinch, creditors always call the tune.  ( Kenneth D. Ackerman  is the author of four books, including
“Boss Tweed: The Corrupt Pol Who Conceived the Soul of Modern
New York.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Kenneth D. Ackerman at
 kackerman@ofwlaw.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 