-- Bovespa Drops on Europe Debt Concern, Faster Brazil Inflation
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-05-09T19:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/bovespa-drops-on-europe-debt-concern-faster-brazil-inflation.html
The Bovespa  index (MXWD)  fell for a second
day as concern mounted that  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen
amid a political deadlock in  Greece  and after Brazilian consumer
prices increased in April more than forecast.  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo  dropped as the online retailer’s
first-quarter loss was worse than analysts’ estimates, adding to
the list of companies that in the past weeks have reported
lower-than-forecast earnings, including airline Gol Linhas
Aereas Inteligentes SA and lender Banco Bradesco SA. OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA followed crude lower.  The Bovespa lost 0.7 percent to 59,933.51 at 4:14 p.m. in
Sao Paulo. Forty stocks fell on the measure while 28 gained. The
real weakened 0.8 percent to 1.9563 per  U.S. dollar . The MSCI
All-Country World Index retreated 0.6 percent.  “Markets are pricing in a Greek default,” Fausto Gouveia,
who helps manage 380 million reais (193.8 million) at Legan
Administracao de Recursos, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “As
for inflation, we need to keep an eye on it, especially
considering the impact a weaker real may have on prices from now
on, as imports become more expensive.”  Greece, which has 436 million euros ($566 million) of debt
coming due May 15, is struggling to form a government after
weekend elections. The Syriza party leader, Alexis Tsipras, told
political rivals they must renounce support for the European
Union-led bailout if there is to be any chance of forging a
coalition.  The  Bovespa (IBOV) , tracking global stocks, pared losses that were
as big as 1.9 percent after Reuters reported that the European
Financial Stability Facility will pay the 5.2 billion euro
tranche of aid to Greece.  B2W Quarterly Loss  B2W, a unit of Lojas Americanas SA, tumbled 5.9 percent to
7.16 reais. The company reported a net loss of 42.8 million
reais in the first quarter. That compares with the average
estimate of an adjusted net loss of 17.6 million reais in a
Bloomberg survey of nine analysts.  Lojas Americanas dropped 0.7 percent to 13.36 reais after
earlier falling as much as 3.4 percent.  Gafisa SA, Brazil’s sixth-biggest homebuilder by revenue,
gained 1.6 percent to 3.84 reais after erasing a decline of as
much as 3.2 percent. The company’s first-quarter loss was
31.5 million reais, compared with a 43.3 million-reais loss a
year earlier, according to a regulatory filing. The average
estimate was for an adjusted loss of 18.5 million reais,
according to a Bloomberg survey with six analysts.  The  BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index (IMOBBV)  slipped 1.7 percent.  “Not many companies reported very strong figures this
earnings season,” Gouveia said. “Results for real-estate
companies have been quite bad,”  OGX Declines  OGX retreated 1.2 percent to 13.50 reais. Crude oil for
June delivery slipped as much as 1.9 percent to $95.17 a barrel.  Consumer prices in Brazil, as measured by the benchmark
IPCA index, rose 0.64 percent in April after a 0.21 percent
increase in the previous month, the statistics agency said in a
report distributed in  Rio de Janeiro  today. The advance was
bigger than the 0.59 percent median forecast of 47 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Annual inflation slowed to 5.10 percent
from 5.24 percent.  Brazil  targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus
or minus two percentage points.  The MSCI Brazil Index has dropped to the cheapest level
since 2006 versus global shares as the country’s efforts to
boost economic growth with aggressive interest rate cuts spur
inflation concern. Investors pulled $869 million from the
country’s mutual funds this year, the only country among the
four largest emerging nations to post outflows, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg and EPFR Global.  Inflation Outlook  “We would share market concerns that the central bank may
move too far and cause an inflation problem down the line,”
said Phillipe Langham, who helps oversee about $40 billion as a
London-based senior emerging-market  fund manager  at RBC Global
Asset Management and holds fewer Brazilian shares than are
represented in benchmark indexes. Government interference in the
economy may be “accelerating with pressure on bank margins,”
he said.  Brazil’s central bank, led by President Alexandre Tombini,
has cut the benchmark Selic rate 3.5 percentage points since
August to 9 percent, near a record low, to fuel growth in  Latin
America ’s biggest economy.  Banco do Brasil SA , Latin America’s biggest bank by assets,
sank 1.9 percent to 22.47 reais, poised for the lowest close
since July 2009. Banco Santander SA lowered its recommendation
for the stock to hold from buy, citing concern about the
earnings outlook for Banco do Brasil’s unit Banco Votorantim.  Year-to-Date  The Bovespa has gained 5.9 percent in 2012, buoyed by local
interest-rate cuts, signs of expansion in the U.S. and optimism
that Europe may be closer to resolving its sovereign-debt
crisis. The measure has fallen 12 percent since this year’s high
on March 13 on rekindled concern about Europe and on speculation
the slowdown in  China , Brazil’s biggest trading partner, may be
deeper than expected.  Trading volume was 7.08 billion reais in stocks in  Sao
Paulo  yesterday, according to data from the exchange. That
compares with a daily average of 7.2 billion reais this year
through May 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in  New York  at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  