-- Brazil’s $2 Billion Cane Revival Plan Fails: Commodities
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-05-10T14:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/brazil-s-2-billion-cane-revival-plan-fails-commodities.html
Brazil ’s 4 billion-real ($2.1
billion) drive to revive sugar-cane production has faltered as
government bureaucracy and a curb on foreign loans choked credit
needed to finance planting.  Cane refiners, who also grow the crop, couldn’t complete
paperwork in time to qualify for loans from the state
development bank known as BNDES before the main planting season
ended last month, said Maurilio Biagi Filho, president of the
ethanol producer Grupo Maubisa. In March, the government imposed
a tax on overseas borrowing to stifle capital inflows that are
boosting the currency.  The shortage of credit dried up funds for replacing older
sugar-cane stalks, which must be renewed every five years to
maintain yields. At least eight of the nation’s 420 processing
mills are idle because of a lack of cane, threatening Brazil’s
lead over the U.S. as the biggest ethanol exporter. Brazil is
the world’s largest sugar producer.  Brazil’s growers “need to plant but simply don’t have the
financial resources,” said Alexandre Grendene Bartelle, who is
seeking to tap a  credit line  from BNDES to expand fields around
two sugar-cane facilities he co-owns. “Mills are in financial
troubles. They need this line of credit.”  Replanting Cane  Brazilian growers replanted about 15 percent of their
fields last year, less than the 17 percent annual replacement
rate needed to maximize productivity, said Marcio Perin, an
analyst at Informa Economics FNP, a consulting company in Sao
Paulo. As much as 20 percent may be replanted this year.  Mills in the state were selling cane for 60.69 reais a
metric ton at their gates in April, up 92 percent from an
average of 31.55 reais in the 2008-2009 season.  BNDES, formally named Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento
Economico e Social, introduced its lending program in January,
the first effort by President  Dilma Rousseff  to revitalize the
cane crop.  The goal is 1 million hectares of new or replacement cane
plantations. That would underpin supplies to hundreds of
processors, led by Cosan SA Industria & Comercio, which along
with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  is the world’s biggest operator.  The 72-month Prorenova loans are available through Dec. 31
and carry interest rates of about 9 percent -- a base rate of
7.8 percent plus a risk spread levied by the lender, said
Alexandre Figliolino, regional director for Banco Itau BBA. That
may be as much as 6 percentage points lower than similar loans
from local commercial lenders, he said.  ‘Competitive’ Rates  “These rates are very competitive,” Figliolino said in a
telephone interview. “Everyone’s trying to access this
credit.”  Excessive paperwork has prevented growers from completing
their applications, which are submitted to commercial banks and
then forwarded to BNDES once the file is complete.  BNDES approved the first application yesterday, according
to an e-mailed statement from the agency. It agreed to lend
Maringa, Brazil-based sugar-cane processor Usina de Acucar Santa
Terezinha Ltda. 226.2 million reais to develop 9,000 hectares of
new fields and replant 58,000 hectares of old ones, according to
the statement.  One daunting requirement for prospective borrowers is
providing satellite imagery of mills’ existing cane supplies as
well as detailed maps of the plantations. That can be a
challenge for small farmers with lands deep in Brazil’s
interior.  ‘Horrible’  “BNDES operations are very bureaucratic and horrible,”
Paulo Roberto Luccas, commercial manager for the cane processor
Tonon Bioenergia SA, said by phone.  The government also has made it more expensive to borrow
abroad. Brazil imposed a 6 percent tax in March on loans and
bonds issued abroad by local companies as part of an effort to
weaken the real and make domestic goods more competitive
overseas, said Arnaldo Correa, president of Sao Paulo-based
Archer Consulting.  Known as the IOF tax, the duty on foreign borrowing was
extended to loans and bonds with durations of as long as five
years. Previously, it covered three-year deals.  The tax jeopardizes a widely used practice where cane
companies sell their sugar before it’s produced and use futures
contracts as collateral for dollar-denominated loans that cover
replanting costs, Correa said. As much as 60 percent of Brazil’s
cane producers finance crops this way, he said.  Overseas Loans  Those loans are often provided by lenders outside Brazil
that are now subject to the IOF tax. Sugar producers prefer to
borrow in dollars because they sell in the same currency.  Extending the IOF tax “is going to hurt our sugar-
producing clients who have been accessing these three- to five-
year  credit lines ,” Alastair Gourlay, a senior associate at the
London-based international law firm Clifford Chance LLP, said in
an e-mail.  Sugar-cane plants in Brazil are typically replaced every
five years, and many are past their peak-production age, said
Bartelle.  Sugar-cane stalks are cut near the base when harvested so
they will regrow during the next season. The plants must
eventually be replaced to maintain yield, at a cost of about
4,000 reais a hectare (2.5 acres), Jose Carlos Hausknecht,
director of Sao Paulo-based agricultural consulting company MB
Agro, said in a telephone interview.  The average age of Brazil’s cane plants in 2011 was about 3
1/2 years, a year older than optimum, Hausknecht said.  BNDES Plan  BNDES is considering easing the requirements for the
Prorenova program. The agency is scheduled to meet with
commercial banks this month to discuss revising the application
process, said Antonio de Padua Rodrigues, technical director for
the sugar-cane trade group Unica.  “The degree of success of the line depends on the changes
it makes in May,” he said in a telephone interview.  Reduced investments in crops mean “the U.S. could overtake
Brazil this year” as the world’s biggest ethanol exporter,
Hausknecht said.  Brazil was usurped by the U.S. as the world’s largest
ethanol producer in 2006, and it almost ceded its place last
year as the top exporter. The country exported 1.9 billion
liters (500 million gallons) of ethanol in 2011 and imported 1.2
billion liters, mostly from the U.S., said Salim Morsy, an
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s  Sao Paulo  office.  The country exported 5.1 billion liters in 2008 and
imported about 500,000 liters, Morsy said. Maintaining that rate
of production requires more flexible forms of finance for the
industry, said Filho, the executive at Grupo Maubisa.  “This credit is very much in demand,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net ;
Fabiola Moura in Sao Paulo at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  