-- Brazil Bulls Capitulate as State Intervention Spurs Outflows
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-05-09T21:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/brazil-bulls-capitulate-as-rousseff-intervention-spurs-outflows.html
Brazil ’s efforts to boost economic
growth with the most aggressive interest rate cuts are driving
away investors, reducing equity valuations to five-year lows and
fueling the world’s biggest currency tumble.  MSCI Inc.’s Brazil Index has dropped to the cheapest level
since 2006 versus global shares as investors pulled $869 million
from the nation’s mutual funds this year, the only country among
the four largest emerging markets to post outflows, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg and EPFR Global.  Brazil’s debt  handed
foreign investors the worst losses since September last month.  Three months after saying Brazil was in a “sweet spot,”
JPMorgan Chase & Co. is advising clients to reduce stock
holdings as President  Dilma Rousseff , 64, orders state banks to
slash lending rates, threatening profits. The real is the
world’s most overvalued major currency even after posting the
worst slump in the past month, Morgan Stanley says.  Stone Harbor 
Investment Partners began buying debt tied to consumer prices as
six  interest-rate cuts  since August spur economists to predict
inflation will top the central bank’s target for a third year.  “We would share market concerns that the central bank may
move too far and cause an inflation problem down the line,”
said Phillipe Langham, who helps oversee about $40 billion as a
London-based senior emerging-market  fund manager  at RBC Global
Asset Management and holds fewer Brazilian shares than are
represented in benchmark indexes. Government interference in the
economy may be “accelerating with pressure on bank margins,”
he said.  Following Lula  The MSCI Brazil index sank 1.7 percent today to the lowest
closing level since Dec. 19 while the Bovespa Index, the local-
currency benchmark gauge for stocks, dropped 1 percent. The real
touched 1.9717 against the dollar, the weakest level since July
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The central bank has cut the Selic target 3.5 percentage
points in the past nine months, the biggest drop in the
benchmark rates of the world’s 25 largest economies, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Policy makers may reduce the
Selic to as low as 8 percent from 9 percent today, trading in
rate futures contracts shows.  Savings Accounts  Rousseff, a former Marxist guerrilla, became Brazil’s first
female president in January 2011 by vowing to maintain the
market-friendly policies of Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva that
helped gross domestic product expand 37 percent during his eight
years in office. Rousseff has instead increased the government’s
role to shore up  Latin America ’s largest economy, according to
UBS AG’s Bhanu Baweja.  To weaken the real and protect exporters, Rousseff’s
administration intervened in  currency markets  and raised taxes
on foreign borrowing. She stepped up pressure on companies such
as  Vale SA (VALE5)  to hire more workers. Last week, the government
modified savings account rules to pave the way for record-low
benchmark interest rates.  While the jobless rate in March was down from the year
before and Rousseff’s approval rating among voters climbed to a
record, investors are growing concerned that the policies will
lead to  faster inflation  and lower corporate profits, Baweja,
the head of emerging-market fixed-income and currency strategy
at UBS in  London , wrote in an April 26 report.  Lula Rally  The dollar-denominated  MSCI Brazil gauge  has dropped 26
percent since Rousseff and central bank President Alexandre Tombini, 48, took office while the Bovespa slumped 14 percent.
That compares with the 4.5 percent drop in the dollar-based MSCI
All-Country World index through today.  Brazilian government bonds  returned 2.1 percent in dollar
terms during the past year through yesterday, trailing a 4
percent advance for Latin American debt, according to JPMorgan
indexes. Brazilian debt fell 3.9 percent in April, the second
month of losses.  Rousseff’s struggle to win over investors contrasts with
the success her predecessor had when taking office a decade ago.  Lula, tapping into a three-fold surge in the country’s
commodity exports, cut the  budget deficit , paid back $15.5
billion of loans to the  International Monetary Fund  ahead of
schedule and accumulated a record $287 billion in international
reserves. The MSCI Brazil index jumped 69 percent during his
first 16 months as president, reversing a 37 percent plunge in
the 10 months before he took office that was sparked by concern
the former union leader would default on the country’s debt.  ‘Inadmissible’ Rates  Rousseff, who said during a May 2010 speech to investors in
 New York  that policy makers could “gradually” reduce the
country’s 4.5 percent inflation target, has since shifted her
focus to cutting interest rates. Economists forecast inflation
will remain above 5 percent this year and next, according to a
 central bank survey  released May 7.  Consumer prices  rose 5.1
percent in the 12 months through April.  The interest rates charged by Brazilian banks are
“inadmissible,” Rousseff said in a televised address on April
30. She said in her weekly radio address on May 7 that Brazil’s
banking system is so profitable “it can perfectly do its part”
by reducing loan rates. State-owned lenders Banco do Brasil SA
and Caixa Economica Federal said last month they will cut rates.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Banco Bradesco SA, Brazil’s
biggest non-government government banks, are preparing cuts in
 interest rate  on loans to companies and individuals, O Estado de
S. Paulo reported today, citing the lenders’ chief executive
officers.  Banks Retreat  Brazil’s 44 percent  average interest rate  for consumer
loans in March compares with the 9.5 percent  average U.S.
personal loan  rates on May 4, according to data compiled by
Brazil’s central bank and Bankrate Inc.  Last week the government adjusted a 150-year-old rule
setting minimum returns on savings accounts to make further
reductions in the benchmark rate possible.  “As the easing gets extended, inflation concerns are being
reignited,” Emy Shayo Cherman, an equity strategist at JPMorgan
in Sao Paulo, wrote in an April 27 research report. “Regulatory
risk will continue and will continue to have impact on
equities.”  Cherman said investors should cut their Brazilian stock
holdings to below their weighting in benchmark indexes, from a
previous overweight position, and recommended lowering bank
holdings. She said she likes CCR SA, a Sao Paulo-based toll road
operator whose revenue is tied to inflation.  An MSCI gauge of  Brazilian financial stocks  has tumbled 26
percent during the past two months, the most among 10 industry
groups. CCR jumped 7.4 percent during the same period.  Vale Ouster  Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, whose
shareholders include state-run pension funds and a unit of the
government’s development bank, retreated 12 percent in  Sao Paulo 
trading during the past three months and state-controlled
Petroleo Brasileiro SA declined 21 percent.  Rousseff, who served as Lula’s energy minister and chief of
staff, has called for higher taxes on mining companies and her
administration prompted the ouster of Vale Chief Executive
Officer  Roger Agnelli  last year after criticizing the company
for not generating jobs. Government-imposed caps on Petrobras’s
domestic fuel prices, designed to curb inflation, have led to
losses in the refinery unit of Brazil’s biggest company by
market value.  ‘Giant ATM’  Petrobras is a “giant ATM machine” for the Brazilian
government and its profits are being used to support local
employment and investment rather than shareholder returns,  Jim Chanos , the founder of New York-based hedge fund Kynikos
Associates Ltd., said in a May 1 interview on Bloomberg
Television. Chanos, the short seller who predicted Enron Corp.’s
collapse in 2001, said he’s betting Petrobras shares will drop.  Vale and Petrobras, the Rio de Janeiro-based companies that
comprise about 30 percent of  the MSCI Brazil index , have also
been weighed down by slowing economic growth in  China , the
country’s biggest trading partner. The  S&P GSCI Spot Index of 24
commodities , which surged 84 percent during Lula’s first term,
has climbed 2.6 percent since Rousseff took office.  The press office of the Presidency, the  Finance Ministry ,
the central bank and Petrobras declined to comment in e-mailed
statements.  The real has depreciated 22 percent from a 12-year high in
July and was down 7 percent in the past month through yesterday,
the worst performer among the 16 major and 25 developing
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Real’s Slump  Higher costs for goods and services in Brazil relative to
other nations signal the real’s decline isn’t over, Ruchir Sharma, who helps oversee about $287 billion as the head of
 emerging markets  at Morgan Stanley’s investment management unit,
said in a May 1 interview in London.  The Economist’s Big Mac index, which measures the local
cost of McDonald’s Corp.’s burgers around the world, shows that
the sandwich cost $6.16 last year in Brazil, a record 51 percent
more than in the U.S. A Russian Big Mac was 34 percent cheaper
than in the U.S. while China’s sold for 44 percent less.  Investors shouldn’t be surprised that Rousseff is stepping
up government intervention,  Alexandre Schwartsman , a Brazil
central bank director from 2003 to 2006 who now works as a
consultant in Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview.  Rousseff said in a February 2010 speech in Brasilia that
her government would resume the state’s role of managing the
nation’s development. Her approval rating rose to a record 77
percent in March from 72 percent in December, according to
Ibope, which surveyed 2,002 people from March 16-19 for a poll
that has a margin of error of plus or minus two percentage
points.  Jobless Rate  Brazil’s jobless rate  declined to 6.2 percent in March from
6.5 percent a year earlier, according to government data. The
 budget gap  narrowed to the equivalent of 2.4 percent of gross
domestic product from 2.5 percent when she took office.  After the economy grew 1.4 percent in the fourth quarter
from a year before, the weakest pace since 2009, Rousseff’s
policies are justified, said Ronaldo Patah, who manages 120
billion reais ($63 billion) as the head of fixed income at Itau
Asset Management.  “They are doing the right job, protecting growth and
employment,” Patah said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.  The MSCI Brazil index trades for 1.5 times net assets, down
from 1.9 times when Rousseff took office and 28 percent lower
than the average level during Lula’s administration, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The $886 billion gauge of
Brazilian shares is valued at a 14 percent discount to the MSCI
All-Country World index, the widest gap since September 2006,
data compiled by MSCI and Bloomberg show.  Falling Valuations  The  MSCI Brazil index  has declined 13 percent since the
central bank began cutting interest rates from a 2 1/2-year high
in August, compared with an average rally of 68 percent in the
first eight months of the three monetary easing cycles during
the past decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The difference between yields on two-year and five-year
debt increased to a record 143 basis points, or 1.43 percentage
points, on March 14, a sign that traders are betting the central
bank will be forced to reverse course and raise interest rates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap was 123 basis
points yesterday.  The yield gap between inflation-linked bonds due in 2015
and similar-maturity fixed-rate securities, a gauge of investor
expectations for annual consumer price increases, rose to 5.57
percent yesterday from a record low of 5.27 percent on Nov. 28.  Steffen Reichold, an emerging-market economist at Stone
Harbor, said the firm, with $47 billion in assets, is buying
inflation-linked bonds for the first time in “a while.”  “There’s a risk that the central bank pushes it a little
bit too much,” Reichold said at the Bloomberg Link Latin
America Investing Conference in New York on April 26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  