-- Brazil Real Declines to Lowest Since 2009 as Greece Sinks Stocks
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-05-09T21:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/brazil-real-drops-to-lowest-since-2009-on-reduced-risk-demand.html
The real fell to its lowest level in
almost three years as intensified political turmoil in  Greece 
sapped demand for emerging-market assets including Brazilian
stocks.  The currency has dropped 5.2 percent against the dollar in
2012, the worst performance among the 16 most-traded currencies,
as central bank dollar purchases to weaken the real to aid
exporters and interest-rate cuts have coincided with concern
instability in  Europe  will further weigh on economic growth.
Yields on interest-rate futures rose today after touching a
record low this week as consumer prices climbed in April more
than forecast.  Brazil ’s currency depreciated 1.5 percent to 1.9699 per
 U.S. dollar  at 6 p.m. in Sao Paulo after earlier touching
1.9717, the weakest level since July 2009. The yield on the rate
futures contract due in January 2014 increased for a second day,
rising 18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage point, to 8.56
percent after touching a record low 8.15 percent May 7.  “The real is clearly performing on the European headlines
today,” Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a local-markets strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said by phone from  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “And of course Brazil has been underperforming for
a while on government intervention.”  The Bovespa index of equities fell to its lowest level
since January as investors awaited a resolution to Greece’s
political impasse. The euro weakened and Spanish  default risk 
climbed to a record. U.S. stocks and precious metals declined.  Faster Inflation  Brazil’s consumer prices, as measured by the benchmark IPCA
index, rose 0.64 percent in April, the biggest jump in a year,
the government statistics agency reported today. The increase
was more than the 0.59 percent median forecast of 47 analysts in
a Bloomberg News survey. Annual inflation slowed to 5.10 percent
from 5.24 percent.  The real has traded weaker than 1.90 per dollar after April
30 as the central bank bought $7.2 billion in the  spot market 
from April 1 through April 27, the most since $8.4 billion
purchased in March 2011. The currency last traded at 2 per
dollar in July 2009.  “Depending on how things evolve abroad, the real could
test the limit of 2 per dollar,” said  Francisco Carvalho ,
currency director at Liquidez DTVM Ltda., in a phone interview
from Sao Paulo.  The central bank has cut the  target lending rate  3.5
percentage points since August, the most among the world’s 25
largest economies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Policy makers may reduce the benchmark to as low as 8 percent
from 9 percent by the end of August, trading in interest-rate
futures contracts shows.  Pressure From Rousseff  Borrowing costs including the benchmark rate may fall
further in Brazil, Deputy Finance Minister Nelson Barbosa said
yesterday. The federal banks made a sustainable move to cut
lending rates and competition may lead private banks to follow,
Barbosa told reporters in Brasilia.  The central bank will have to stop cutting rates at 8
percent this year because inflation “isn’t converging” toward
the bank’s 4.5 percent target rate, according to  Newton Rosa ,
chief economist at SulAmerica Investimentos.  “There’s a limit for rate cuts,” Rosa said in a phone
interview from  Sao Paulo . Annual inflation will reach as high as
5.3 percent by year-end, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  