-- California Tax Boost Will Be on Ballot, Proponents Say
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-05-09T00:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/california-tax-boost-will-be-on-ballot-proponents-say.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown ’s
campaign to fill a  budget deficit  by raising sales and income
taxes has gathered enough signatures to place the measure on the
November ballot, a spokeswoman said.  Backers will begin submitting 1.3 million signatures to
county elections officials across the state tomorrow, said Gale Kaufman, a Democratic political consultant in Sacramento who
advised the campaign.  The largest U.S. state by population is confronting a $9.2
billion deficit for the fiscal year that begins July 1. The 18-
month recession that ended in 2009 cost the state more than a
million jobs and lowered revenue by 24 percent from peak to
trough.  Brown, a 74-year-old Democrat, teamed up with the
California Federation of Teachers to gather the signatures for
the measure that would temporarily raise the  state sales tax ,
already the highest in the U.S., to 7.5 percent from 7.25
percent. The proposal would boost rates on income starting at
$250,000, with those making $1 million or more, now taxed at
10.3 percent, paying 13.3 percent, the most of any state.  The governor decided to seek a ballot initiative after
Republican lawmakers in 2011 blocked his request for legislation
to put an extension of expiring taxes to a vote.  Brown in January proposed a $92.6 billion budget for the
year starting July 1 that counts on the revenue from the tax
increases. If voters reject them, he’ll cut $4.8 billion from
schools mid-year.  Competition on Ballot  The governor’s measure will compete with one championed by
the California State PTA and  Molly Munger , the daughter of
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s vice chairman, Charles Munger, to
increase taxes on income of $7,316 or more, from 0.4 percent for
the lowest earners to 2.2 percent for individuals making more
than $2.5 million a year. It would raise $10 billion annually
for 12 years.  Munger’s group said it submitted 848,000 signatures to
county election officials around the state, more than the
504,760 needed to qualify.  Under Munger’s proposal, 30 percent of the additional
revenue would pay school-bond debt for the first four years. For
the remaining eight years, all the money would go to education.  Voters in November may decide another initiative pushed by
Thomas Steyer, chairman of San Francisco-based hedge fund
Farallon Capital Management LLC that would require businesses to
figure their taxes solely on in-state sales.  That measure would raise about $1 billion annually, with
half set aside for the state’s general fund and half for energy-
efficiency programs. Steyer’s group turned in 955,000 signatures
May 4, more than enough to qualify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  