-- Canada Housing Bubble Talk Dismissed
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-05-09T04:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/canada-housing-bubble-talk-dismissed.html
The head of  Canada ’s biggest bank and
one of the country’s leading developers said the housing market
is not in a bubble, even as one economist said Toronto is caught
in a “condo craze.”  Canadian housing starts rose to the highest since September
2007 last month, led by multiple-unit projects, Canada Mortgage
& Housing Corp. said yesterday. The annual pace of home starts
rose 14 percent to 244,900, Ottawa-based CMHC said.  Participants at Bloomberg’s Canada Economic Summit in
Toronto said talk of a housing bubble is overblown.  “When we look at the overall marketplace, there might be
pockets of vulnerability but we remain quite comfortable,” said
 Gordon Nixon , chief executive officer of  Royal Bank of Canada 
“Frankly, I’d like to see the rhetoric come down a little
bit.”  A residential real-estate boom in the world’s 10th-largest
economy has prompted senior policy makers such as Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney  and Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  to warn
that Canadians may be taking on too much debt.  Carney told lawmakers April 24 that high levels of
 household debt  remain the greatest domestic risk to Canada’s
economy. In an appearance before a parliamentary committee, he
reiterated that a rate increase “may become appropriate,” and
warned Canadian families to exercise “caution” with their debt
levels.  Carney has kept his key lending rate unchanged at 1 percent
since September 2010 in the longest pause since the 1950s.  10 percent overvalued  Housing prices in Canada are probably about 10 percent
overvalued, economist Paul Fenton said at the Bloomberg summit.  There doesn’t seem to be a sense that there’s been
overbuilding, and housing doesn’t pose a systemic threat to the
function of the nation’s financial system, said Fenton, senior
vice-president and chief economist at Caisse de Depot et
Placement du  Quebec .  The 244,900 housing starts last month released yesterday
beat economists’ expectations. The highest forecast in a
Bloomberg economist survey with 21 responses was a 222,600 rate.  “Wow. This report reflects unbelievable strength in
Canadian housing starts, and all of the gain was in multiples
again which reflect the ongoing condo craze,” Scotia Capital
economist  Derek Holt  said in a research note.  Sales of new condominiums in Toronto reached 6,070 units in
the first three months of the year, a record for the first
quarter, market research firm Urbanation Inc. reported May 7. As
many as 40 new projects with more than 11,000 units could come
on the market in the second quarter, a trend that may cause
inventory of unsold units to approach a record set in 2008,
Urbanation said.  Risk Averse  Condo builders “tend to be risk averse,” insisting that
70 percent of a project is presold and buyers put down at least
a 20 percent deposit, according to Jim Ritchie, senior vice
president of sales and marketing at Tridel, a Toronto-based real
estate developer.  “It’s all about  managing risk ,” Ritchie said. There’s a
market for condos because average  house prices  in Toronto’s 416
area code are about C$830,000 ($831,000), compared with
C$400,000 for a new condo, he said.  Almost 60 percent of people buying condos in that area are
either single or couples without children, said Ritchie, who
said concerns about foreign buyers are overdone, given about 95
percent of purchasers are “locals who have social insurance
numbers and local addresses.”  RBC’s exposure to the condo markets in Toronto and
 Vancouver  isn’t “significant,” Nixon said. “Part of the
reasons for that is firstly a lot of the condo buyers in those
markets are cash buyers. At the margin there’s certainly a
significant foreign component to them, and I think to some
degree the banks are a bit slightly more cautious,” he said.  No Bubble  The increase in housing prices in Canada is unsustainable,
said  Finn Poschmann , vice president of research at the Toronto-
based C.D. Howe Institute. It’s difficult for market
participants to tell a bubble has formed before it has deflated,
he said.  “The big question people ask is, is Canada’s housing
market in a bubble. Our answer to that is no,” said  Jim Murphy ,
chief executive officer of the Canadian Association of
Accredited Mortgage Professionals. The association’s research
suggests growth in mortgage credit is below average, he said.  Canada’s housing agency said yesterday there is no
compelling evidence of a price bubble based on factors such as
 household income  and  interest rates .  “Clear evidence of a bubble is lacking,” Canada Mortgage
& Housing Corp. said in its annual report. “CMHC continues to
monitor very closely housing prices and underlying factors such
as demographic and economic fundamentals and financial
conditions across all major urban centers, including condominium
markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  