-- Candente Surges in Lima After Resuming Copper Studies
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-05-09T21:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/candente-surges-in-lima-after-resuming-copper-studies.html
Candente Copper Corp. (DNT) , a Canadian
mining exploration company with operations in Peru, rose the
most in three months after reaching agreements with community
leaders to resume studies at its Canariaco copper deposit.  Candente surged 8.1 percent to 67 cents at the close of
trade in  Lima  for the biggest jump since Feb. 2. The stock pared
its year-to-date decline to 29 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Joanne Freeze reached agreements on
local employment and agricultural projects with 200 members of
the southern Andean community of Kanaris, Vancouver-based
Candente said today in an e-mailed statement. The accords came
after a community leader delayed a vote on a land rights
agreement and proposed a referendum instead.  “The share had fallen a great deal so there was an
opportunity there,” said Carlos Rojas, a trader at Andino Asset
Management SAC. “The company has shown it’s committed to
solving community issues so investors see a light at the end of
the tunnel.”  Freeze said in an e-mail today that she was unavailable for
comment as she is traveling.  Community protests in Peru have suspended mines by  Newmont
Mining Corp. (NEM)  and  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) , undermining a government
drive to attract $50 billion of mining investments in the next
decade.  Peru suspended Newmont’s $4.8 billion Minas Conga project
and ordered the company to improve the mine design after Andean
farmers, concerned that the project would dry up water supplies,
attacked the mine site in November.  The government also halted work last year at Southern
Copper’s $900 million Tia Maria copper mine and  Bear Creek
Mining Corp. (BCM) ’s Santa Ana silver project to ease environmental
protests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  