-- Carlyle Falls Below Offer Price as Rubenstein Plan Fails
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-05-09T20:25:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/carlyle-shares-fall-below-22-ipo-price-on-fifth-day-of-trading.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG)  sank below its $22
offering price in the fifth day of trading, following a
discounted IPO with which the firm sought to prove that shares
in private-equity managers can rise.  Carlyle, which had been trading in a range of 9 cents above
its IPO price for the past three days, fell 1.1 percent to
$21.75 at the close of trading in New York, after earlier
falling as much as 4.4 percent to $21.02. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index fell 0.7 percent.  In marketing the offering,  David Rubenstein , Carlyle’s co-
founder and co-chief executive officer, had told investors that
the firm was pricing the shares at a discount so that they would
rise, compared with the trading losses experienced by peers such
as  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Apollo Global Management LLC. (APO) 
Carlyle’s offering price was below the proposed range of $23 to
$25 a share.  Carlyle’s share price had been stuck just above $22 from
May 3 through yesterday, as the  S&P 500  slumped 2.8 percent in
the same period. To traders such as  Larry Peruzzi , that was a
sign that the private-equity firm’s underwriters were shielding
it from losses.  “The weak markets the last few days are helping to keep
the stock from moving higher,” Peruzzi, senior equity trader at
Cabrera Capital Markets LLC in  Boston , said in an interview last
week. “Hence an underwriter may be more willing to support a
stock if they feel it is under pressure from macro and not micro
factors.”  Carlyle’s Market Value  Randall Whitestone, a spokesman for Carlyle, declined to
comment on the share price.  Carlyle sold about a 10 percent stake in the IPO, raising
$671 million. The IPO valued Carlyle at $6.7 billion, or 7.6
times last year’s distributable earnings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Blackstone, by comparison, has a market value of about
$14.1 billion, or about 20 times its 2011 distributable
earnings. The earnings measure largely reflects profits made
from selling companies owned through buyout funds.  Alternative-asset managers have almost universally lost
money for investors following initial public offerings.
Blackstone, based in New York, has declined 59 percent since
raising $4.75 billion in a 2007 IPO, and Apollo has tumbled 37
percent since its 2011 offering.  ‘Long Term’ Efforts  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  and  Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group LLC (OZM) , which held their own U.S. IPOs in 2007,
have lost 81 percent and 74 percent. Oaktree Capital Group LLC
has declined 3.6 percent since its IPO last month.  Rubenstein said in an e-mailed statement last week that he
thinks the firm accomplished its objective in the IPO.  “Our principal focus in the offering was to attract a
large number of highly respected institutional investors who
support our emphasis on cash earnings and who will support our
efforts to grow the firm over the long term,” Rubenstein said.  Carlyle is scheduled to report first-quarter earnings
before U.S. markets open on May 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  