-- Carlsberg First-Quarter Earnings Drop on Russian Destocking
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-05-09T06:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/carlsberg-first-quarter-earnings-plunge-on-russian-destocking.html
Carlsberg A/S (CARLA) , the world’s fourth-
biggest brewer, said first-quarter earnings dropped after it
sold less beer in  Russia  and spent more on sales and marketing.  Operating profit, excluding some items, fell 43 percent
from a year earlier to 574 million kroner ($100 million), the
Copenhagen-based company  said today . Earnings missed the 845
million-kroner average of 16 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. On so-called organic terms, the drop was 54 percent.
Revenue was unchanged on the same basis, which excludes the
effect of currency shifts, acquisitions or disposals.  Carlsberg owns the biggest brewer in Russia, where growth
has been restricted by the effects of a 200 percent tax increase
on beer at the start of 2010. Market share in the country slid
to 37.4 percent from about 39 percent last year, the brewer said
in February, after it increased prices and drinkers switched to
cheaper beers. Retailers stocked up in the fourth quarter of
2011 in advance of another tax increase.  “In the traditionally small first quarter of the year, the
group delivered continued solid growth and performance in
northern and western  Europe  and Asia, while destocking impacted
our Russian results as expected,” Chief Executive Officer
Joergen Buhl Rasmussen said in the statement. “Our first-
quarter results were in line with our plans.”  Volume Declines  Total revenue for the three months ended March 31 amounted
to 12.9 billion kroner, compared with the 12.5 billion-kroner
average  estimate  of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
volume of beer sold fell 4 percent on an organic basis.  Carlsberg got about 39 percent of  profit  from the eastern
European region last year, with 49 percent coming from northern
and western Europe, where the brewer is cutting costs and
focusing on higher-priced beers to offset difficult economic
conditions and weak  consumer confidence .  Organic operating profit increased 8 percent in northern
and western Europe, even as “challenging consumer dynamics”
cut sales in the southern part of the region, including  Greece .
Operating profit plunged 98 percent in eastern Europe as beer
shipments slid 22 percent after Russian distributors stocked up
on an extra 1.3 million hectoliters of beer in the fourth
quarter, it said.  Total organic volume increased 2 percent, excluding the
effects of Russian destocking, Carlsberg said.  Promotion Scheduling  Promotional investments will be weighted to the first half
of the year “due to the implementation of certain marketing
restrictions in Russia as of July,” the brewer said.  The brewer started selling its Tuborg brand in  China  in
April and will roll out the beer with a “rejuvenated” image to
more countries, it said. Asian sales and profit increased, aided
by growth in Cambodia, Laos and  India , and by “double-digit”
increases in sales of the Carlsberg brand.  The brewer today maintained a forecast set in February for
operating profit to stay at about the same level as last year,
based on an average exchange rate of about 43 rubles to the
euro, and said it anticipates that adjusted net income will grow
“slightly.” The forecast excludes some one-time items.  The company expects a “low single-digit” decline in north
and western European markets with a “modest” return to growth
in 2012 in Russia and improving sales in  Asia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  