-- Catalyst Health Sued Over SXC Health’s $4.4 Billion Bid
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-05-09T17:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/catalyst-health-sued-over-sxc-health-s-4-4-billion-takeover-bid.html
Catalyst Health Solutions Inc. (CHSI)  was
sued by a pension fund that claims the pharmacy benefit manager
failed to get the best price in a $4.4 billion takeover by  SXC
Health Solutions Corp. (SXC)   Officials of the Massachusetts-based  Haverhill Retirement
System  contend in a Delaware Chancery Court lawsuit that SXC’s
offer of $28 in cash and 0.6606 shares of SXC stock for each
Catalyst share is too low and “does not reflect the true
financial position” of Rockville, Maryland-based Catalyst.  Catalyst directors violated their legal duties to
shareholders by “approving an unfair deal” and by “not
shopping the company or allowing it to be shopped,” lawyers for
the pension fund said in the suit, filed yesterday in
Wilmington. Lisle, Illinois-based SXC also helps companies
manage drug-benefit plans.  Some pharmacy benefits managers are combining after  Express
Scripts Inc. (ESRX) , the largest one in the U.S., agreed last year to
pay $29.1 billion for Medco Health Solutions Inc. That deal
would create the largest U.S. manager of companies’ drug plans.
A federal judge last month denied a bid by retail drugstores to
halt the acquisition, which has received regulatory approval.  Christopher Burns , a Catalyst spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a call today seeking comment on the pension fund lawsuit.  Processing Prescriptions  SXC, one of the biggest providers of technology for
processing prescription claims, was the target of takeover
speculation earlier this year. The acquisition offer for
Catalyst puts SXC in position to be one of the nation’s largest
pharmacy benefit companies, Brian Tanquilut, an analyst with
Jefferies & Co. in Nashville,  Tennessee , said after the offer
was announced April 18.  SXC made at least seven acquisitions since November 2004,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In January, the company
bought Healthtrans LLC for $250 million.  The pension fund’s lawyers contend that Catalyst directors
didn’t get enough for Catalyst, which has been recognized as the
“fastest growing PBM in the U.S.,” according to the suit.  The pension fund also accused Catalyst directors of
wrongfully allowing SXC officials to structure the buyout in a
way to bar or discourage other offers.  The case is Haverhill Retirement System v. Catalyst Health
Solutions Inc., CA No. 7506, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  