-- Centro Agrees to Record $202 Million Lawsuit Settlement
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-05-09T06:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/centro-agrees-to-record-202-million-lawsuit-settlement.html
Centro Retail Australia (CRF) , formed from a
mall manager’s reorganization, and PricewaterhouseCoopers agreed
in principle to a settlement of A$200 million ($202) million
with Centro shareholders who claimed they were misled.  Martin Hyde , a class-action lawyer at  Maurice Blackburn 
Lawyers, one of the firms filing the litigation, announced the
settlement at a news conference in Melbourne today. The
litigants have until tomorrow to complete the details of the
agreement or a trial will continue, Hyde said.  “This sends a strong message to corporations and their
advisers that they will be held accountable to shareholders if
their conduct fell short of what the law requires,” Hyde said.  A trial before Federal Court Justice Michelle Gordon began
March 5 and was scheduled to run through June 22 as shareholders
of  Centro Properties Group , the former Melbourne-based mall
manager, claimed the company misled them over its debts. Class-
action lawsuits filed by Maurice Blackburn and  Slater & Gordon
Lawyers (SGH)  were being tried together, while accounting firm
PricewaterhouseCoopers was also sued for failing to audit the
company properly.  ‘Groundbreaking’  “It’s a groundbreaking settlement” and shows  Australia  is
gaining international prominence as a venue for shareholder
class actions,  Ian Ramsay , a professor of commercial law at the
 University of Melbourne , said in a telephone interview before
the announcement. The A$200 million is the biggest payout ever
in a shareholder suit in Australia, Ramsay said.  The Maurice Blackburn litigation was funded by  IMF
(Australia) Ltd. (IMF) , whose shares jumped 9 percent to A$1.46 at the
close of trading in Sydney, the most since May 2010. Centro
Retail yesterday rose 0.4 percent to A$1.8475 in Sydney, before
trading was halted.  The settlement also should put accounting firms on notice
they’ll be held responsible if they fail to “blow the whistle”
on directors if they notice something wrong,  John Walker ,
 executive director  at IMF, said in a phone interview today.  PricewaterhouseCoopers didn’t respond to a request for
comment today.  Maurice Blackburn’s clients will receive A$150 million and
Slater & Gordon’s clients will get A$50 million, according to
the agreement, Hyde said.  Trial Costs  The settlement covers more than 1,000 individual and group
 shareholders , including some of “the country’s largest
financial institutions,” Hyde said. The settlement also covers
about 5,000 individuals and retirees, represented by Slater &
Gordon, the  law firm  said in a statement today.  The cost of the trial was probably about A$500,000 a day,
Hyde said.  Several of Centro’s former directors and executives were
found liable in 2011 for releasing misleading statements.  Justice John Middleton in  Melbourne  fined Andrew Scott, a
former director, A$30,000 and barred previous Chief Financial
Officer Romano Nenna from serving as a director for two years.
Four other former directors and two who were directors at the
time of the Aug. 31 ruling were reprimanded.  Centro’s 2007 annual report failed to disclose A$1.5
billion of short-term liabilities by classifying them as non-
current, and the company didn’t declare $1.75 billion of short-
term debt guarantees of an associated company, Middleton said in
a ruling in June. The mall manager also didn’t disclose A$500
million of short-term debt at one of its units, he said.  Share Plunge  Centro shares fell 76 percent in Sydney on Dec. 17, 2007
after the company said it was struggling to refinance debt
because of the collapse of the subprime mortgage market. The
share slump wiped A$4.98 billion from the market value of  Centro
Properties Group (CNP)  and Centro Retail Group at the time.  The company first announced a restructuring plan in 2009
after a debt-fueled U.S. buying spree backfired when the global
financial crisis caused property values to plummet and borrowing
costs to soar. That left Centro unable to refinance its
 liabilities .  Centro, which managed about A$16.5 billion of shopping
malls in Australia,  New Zealand  and the U.S., accumulated about
A$16 billion of debt across its businesses. The company avoided
receivership in December, when shareholders and debt holders
agreed to a plan to swap A$2.9 billion of debt for equity in a
new company, Centro Retail Australia.  Blackstone Real Estate Partners VI LP, a unit of the
world’s biggest private-equity firm, agreed to buy Centro’s 588
U.S. malls in March 2011 for $9.4 billion. Centro also agreed to
swap part of its debt for 108 Australian properties.  The previous record shareholder settlement in Australia
took place in 2008, when  Aristocrat Leisure Ltd. (ALL) ’s investors
received A$144 million, Ramsay said.  The case is: Richard Kirby v. Centro Properties Ltd.
VID326/2008. Federal Court of Australia (Melbourne).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  