-- Chile Peso Slumps to Two-Week Low as Greece Crimps Copper
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-05-09T18:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/chilean-peso-drops-most-in-two-months-as-trading-range-broken.html
Chile ’s peso fell to the weakest level
in two weeks as concern political turmoil in  Greece  may harm
global growth prospects damped demand for commodities including
copper, the South American country’s top export.  The peso depreciated 0.5 percent to 488.32 per  U.S. dollar ,
the weakest since April 23. The currency earlier broke through
the 491 level for the first time since March 7.  “The trigger is the elections in Greece, and Spanish and
Italian bonds are getting badly beaten up,” said Cristian Donoso, a trader at Banchile Inversiones in Santiago. “That’s
pushing down commodities and emerging-market currencies are
depreciating.”  Copper for July delivery fell as much as 1.8 percent to a
three-week low of $3.61 a pound on the Comex in  New York . The
metal accounts for more than half of Chile’s exports. BNP
Paribas SA today recommended investors sell the Chilean peso
versus the U.S. dollar, setting a target of 510.  Global stocks fell as Alexis Tsipras, leader of Greece’s
Syriza party, told rivals they must reject the European Union-
led bailout of his country if they want to enter government.
Yields on bonds sold by other European governments spiked to the
highest since last year.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  urged Greek leaders to
stick with the austerity measure, Passauer Neue Presse reported,
citing an interview. Merkel wants Greece to remain in the euro,
the newspaper reported.  ‘Calmed Down’  “The market overreacted a little,” said Eugenio Cortes,
head of currency forwards at EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa SA
in Santiago. “It has calmed down a little since Merkel’s
comments. That’s what helped the peso back below 490. In the
morning there were offshore banks buying dollars at 492 pesos
per dollar. On Monday people were selling at 481 pesos.”  Offshore investors in the Chilean peso forwards market had
a $6.7 billion short peso position on May 7, up from $6.1
billion on May 4, central bank data showed today.  The yield on  Spain ’s 10-year government bond rose 23 basis
points, or 0.23 percentage point, to 6.08 percent. The yield on
Italian 10-year bonds increased 14 basis points to 5.60 percent.  “I am very concerned about Greece and what the market is
going to look like for the next few weeks,” said  Mike Moran , a
currency strategist at Standard Chartered Plc in New York. “We
could be heading back to that period of headline trading where
nothing seems real but the market yo-yos up and down on every
bit of news. I don’t think that will be very good for the peso,
which has been doing well but could start playing catch-up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  