-- Chilean Traders Expect Key Interest Rate to Rise This Year
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-05-09T12:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/chilean-traders-expect-key-interest-rate-to-rise-this-year-1-.html
Chilean traders and investors expect
policy makers to raise the  benchmark interest rate  in 2012 after
economic growth exceeded economist estimates in two of the past
three months, a central bank survey showed.  Policy makers will keep the key rate at 5 percent for three
months before lifting it to 5.25 percent by November, according
to the bi-weekly survey posted on the central bank’s website
today. Traders polled by the central bank on April 24 were split
on whether rates would rise by November.  Economic growth in the world’s leading copper producer
accelerated in the first quarter, while inflation has slowed in
each of the past two months. That gives policy makers space to
keep rates unchanged in coming months until it becomes clearer
whether the Euro area crisis will slow growth at home or whether
consumer-price pressures will reappear.  “Current inflation suggests that the Chilean economy
continues to expand while managing inflationary risks,”
Barclays Bank Plc analysts Sebastian Brown and Bruno Rovai wrote
in a May 8 note e-mailed to investors. “Moderation in inflation
gives  Chile ’s central bank room to maintain its ‘wait-and-see’
approach.”  Chile’s peso fell 0.9 percent to 489.89 per  U.S. dollar  at
8:33 a.m. Santiago time from 485.67 yesterday. Chile’s currency
will trade at 485 per dollar in seven days and 490 in three
months, according to today’s poll.  Inflation slowed to 3.5 percent in April from 3.8 percent
in March after exceeding the upper limit of the central bank’s 2
percent to 4 percent target range in the previous three months.
Traders today estimated inflation will reach 3.2 percent in 12
months, matching their forecast two weeks ago.  Chile’s economy grew 5.6 percent in the first quarter from
last year, according to calculations made by Bloomberg based on
the central bank’s  Imacec index  that serves as a proxy for gross
domestic product. That would be the fastest gain since the
second quarter of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  