-- China’s Stocks Fall Most in 6 Weeks on Export Slowdown Concerns
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-05-09T07:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/china-s-stock-futures-fall-on-concern-euro-debt-may-hurt-exports.html
China’s (SHCOMP)  stocks fell, dragging the
benchmark index down by the most in six weeks, as political
tension in  Greece  heightened concern  Europe ’s debt crisis may
further slow Chinese export growth.  China Cosco Holdings Co. and Cosco Shipping Co. dropped
more than 4 percent before a report tomorrow that will show
Chinese export growth decelerated. SAIC Motor Corp. slid 2.9
percent after the Xinhua News Agency said China will ban
executives at state-owned companies from excessive spending on
items such as cars. Sany Heavy Industry Co. paced declines for
construction machinery stocks after Nomura Securities Co. said
sales of excavators last month were “disappointing.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, slumped 40.3 points, or 1.7 percent, to
2,408.59 at the close, the biggest drop since March 28. The  CSI
300 Index (SHSZ300)  declined 1.9 percent to 2,657.51. The  Bloomberg China-
US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, lost 1.9 percent in New York.  “If the Greece and euro woes continue, it will start to
drag on the market as investors will be concerned about the
effect on the economy,” said Larry Wan, Beijing-based head of
investment at Union Life Asset Management Co., which manages the
equivalent of $2.2 billion.  Even with today’s drop, the Shanghai index has climbed 9.5
percent this year on expectations the government will relax
monetary policies and take more measures to bolster equities.
The China Securities Regulatory Commission will accelerate the
pace of approving qualified foreign institutional investors,
Shanghai Securities News reported today, citing Wang Lin, head
of the fund supervision department at the CSRC.  Export Data  Stocks in the gauge are valued at 10.3 times estimated
earnings, compared with a record low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6,
according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg. About 10.5
billion shares changed hands in the Shanghai Composite
yesterday, 33 percent higher than the daily average this year.
Thirty-day  volatility  in the gauge was at 16.7 today.  China’s overseas sales gains may have cooled further to 8.5
percent in April from a year earlier, while import growth
probably doubled to 10.9 percent, based on the median estimates
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of a customs bureau
report tomorrow. The  trade surplus  may have narrowed to $9.9
billion from $11.4 billion in April 2011.  China Cosco, the nation’s biggest publicly traded shipping
company, dropped 4.2 percent to 5.24  yuan  and Cosco Shipping
retreated 4.9 percent to 4.90 yuan.  Greece’s leaders met for a second day to try to form a
government after an election that raised questions about the
nation’s membership of the euro. Alexis Tsipras, leader of the
Syriza party who has vowed to rip up the terms of Greece’s
bailout, was handed the mandate to form a government after
Antonis Samaras of  New Democracy  failed to reach a deal.  ‘Lot of Uncertainty’  Europe is China’s biggest export market, making up about 18
percent of the nation’s overseas shipments, according to Shenyin
& Wanguo Securities Co.  China ’s Communist Party may delay its planned five-year
congress “by a few months” because of an internal debate on
the size and composition of nine-member standing committee of
the Politburo, Reuters said, citing unidentified people with
knowledge of deliberations.  “There’s already a lot of uncertainty this year because of
the political changes and if stimulus measures are stalled
because the congress is postponed, that will have an impact on
shares,” Wan said.  A delay is likely to fuel speculation there’s political
infighting within the ruling party, BNP Paribas said in a note.
This may have markets question the government’s ability to keep
the Chinese economy on track in preventing a hard landing, it
said.  Automakers Drop  SAIC Motor, the largest Chinese automaker, slid 2.9 percent
to 15.53 yuan. Beiqi Foton Motor Co., the biggest commercial-
vehicle maker, lost 3.3 percent to 8.57 yuan.  Executives at unprofitable state-owned companies may not
buy cars or high-end office supplies, or redecorate offices,
Xinhua said, citing a joint statement from three government
departments including the Ministry of Finance.  Sany Heavy Industry, the biggest maker of excavators, fell
3.4 percent to 14.31 yuan. Demand for excavators dropped a
“rather disappointing” 42 percent in April, Nomura said,
citing data from China Construction Machinery Association.  There is a dearth of new construction, analyst Wenjie Ge
said in a note dated yesterday. The company said on May 5 it may
cut its unit-sales forecast for this year as government efforts
to curb property speculation slow construction.  U.S.-Traded Shares  Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and Technology Co., China’s
second-biggest maker of construction equipment, sank 1.8 percent
to 10.18 yuan.  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., declined for a fifth day,
falling 2 percent to $36.43, the lowest close since April 11.   Of the 20 companies on the China-US gauge that have
reported quarterly earnings since April 10, at least 10 fell
short of analysts’ predictions, from  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC) ,
China’s fourth-largest producer, and  China Telecom Corp. (CHA) , the
nation’s biggest fixed-line carrier, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Seven companies in the China-US index are expected to
release first-quarter results this week, including budget hotel
operator  Home Inns & Hotels Management Inc. (HMIN)  and chipmaker
Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp., the data show.
casino company Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. is set to announce
results today.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Chan Tien Hin  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  