-- China’s Luxury Auto Dealers Said to Market Debut Dollar Bonds
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-05-09T08:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/china-s-luxury-auto-dealers-said-to-market-debut-dollar-bonds.html
Chinese luxury  auto dealers   China
ZhengTong Auto Services Holdings Ltd. (1728)  and  Baoxin Auto Group Ltd. (1293) 
plan to sell their first U.S. dollar-denominated bonds this
week, according to people familiar with the issuance plans.  Both companies are marketing five-year bonds to yield in
the high 11 percent area, two people with knowledge of the
respective deals said, asking not to be identified because the
details are private. ZhengTong Auto, which sells BMW and Jaguar
cars, plans to offer as much as $300 million of notes, one of
the people said.  Volkswagen AG’s Lamborghini, Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s
Rolls Royce Plc and Bentley Motors Ltd. already say their
biggest market is  China , home to about 500,000 millionaires with
$2.7 trillion in wealth, according to estimates by Cap Gemini SA
and Bank of America Corp. Chinese showrooms accounted for 10 out
of 12 of Porsche’s best performing dealerships globally, the
company said April 22.  ZhengTong Auto will use some of the proceeds to refinance
two loans it borrowed in December to acquire Top Globe Ltd.,
according to a  statement  to the  Hong Kong  stock exchange on
April 26. Both loans mature this year, the company said. The
remaining money will be used for general corporate purposes and
working capital, it said in the statement.  Sarah Zhang, a Beijing-based investor relations manager at
ZhengTong Auto, did not immediately respond to two calls to her
office and one to her mobile today.  Loans Outstanding  ZhengTong Auto has a HK$1.218 billion ($157 million) loan
outstanding from Bank of Communications Co. that matures in
August and 1 billion  yuan  ($158 million) of debt borrowed from
Easy Honour Ltd. that is due in December this year, the company
said in the statement .  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is arranging ZhengTong Auto’s sale
with CCB International Capital Ltd. as lead manager, according
to the statement. Morgan Stanley and UBS AG are managing Baoxin
Auto’s bond, according to a May 2  statement  to the Hong Kong
stock exchange.  Saprina Leung, a Hong Kong-based spokesman at Porda Havas
International Finance Communications Group, an external public
relations firm for Baoxin Auto, was not immediately able to
comment beyond the statement when contacted by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  