-- China’s Latest Reforms Not a Sign of Economic Strength
-- B y   S a m u e l   S h e r r a d e n
-- 2012-05-09T23:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/china-s-latest-reforms-not-a-sign-of-economic-strength.html
This year,  China  has announced a
flurry of financial liberalization measures that were perceived
by many in the U.S. and Europe as a sign of confidence among
Chinese leaders about their economy’s growth prospects.  Some analysts, such as Paul Markowski, president of MES
Advisers Inc., have  argued  that these reforms indicate Chinese
leaders believe they have avoided a so-called hard landing.  In reality, these measures -- such as widening the trading
band on the yuan, allowing greater capital inflows and
permitting a domestic pension fund to invest in the stock market
-- point to growing Chinese insecurity about the future. They
are defensive steps intended to protect the economy from a
coming slowdown and possibly to boost domestic asset prices.  China’s economy is slowing because of weaker demand for its
exports in  Europe  and the U.S. and because it is reaching the
limits of its investment-driven growth model. Growth in
electricity consumption and railway cargo has halved since last
year and data show that the transition to consumer-led growth is
going slowly. As a result, the outlook for China’s currency has
weakened and capital outflows have become an increasing concern.  These signs of weakness are the main reasons why Chinese
officials have liberalized the exchange rate and tried to
counter outflows by encouraging foreign and domestic investors
to put more money into the Chinese stock market.  Widening the Band  The  International Monetary Fund  and the U.S. applauded
China’s decision to increase the trading band of the yuan. Many
still see the currency as undervalued and believe  exchange-rate 
liberalization will result in appreciation and a rebalancing of
international trade. But Chinese leaders are liberalizing the
exchange rate for precisely the opposite reason: They no longer
think their currency is undervalued and don’t see a “risk” of
further appreciation.  Recently, senior Chinese officials including Premier  Wen Jiabao  and  Zhou Xiaochuan , the governor of the People’s Bank of
China, said the exchange rate is near its “equilibrium” level.
The central bank said in its statement announcing the wider
trading band that the move was to “promote price discovery” and
to “enhance the flexibility” of the exchange rate “in both
directions.”  You wouldn’t know it listening to leaders in the U.S. and
Europe, but weakness in China’s domestic economy has eroded
confidence in the  yuan .  Since China widened the trading band, the currency has
traded toward the bottom of its permitted range. In  Hong Kong ,
where a limited quantity of yuan trades in an open market, 12-
month non-deliverable forwards of the currency trade at about
6.35 yuan per  U.S. dollar , a discount to the current 6.31
onshore rate. In other words, the market in Hong Kong is
confirming that the Chinese currency may actually depreciate in
the coming year.  Band widening is a rational policy choice for a Chinese
leadership that believes the currency to be fairly valued.
Maintaining a narrower band and tighter control over the
exchange rate would raise expectations in the U.S. and Europe
that the yuan would appreciate further. Widening the band proves
to the West that the yuan is near equilibrium and allows for
 currency depreciation  in the event the economy deteriorates.  In other words, it’s an insurance policy for growth in the
future. Any currency depreciation that followed foreign-exchange
liberalization couldn’t be contested by the West.  Boosting Stocks  Chinese leaders have also been trying to mitigate economic
weakness by encouraging capital inflows, particularly into the
domestic stock market. Guo Shuqing, the chairman of the China
Securities Regulatory Commission, which oversees the  securities
market , announced the expansion of the Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investor quota to $80 billion from $30 billion for
approved foreign investors to buy mainland-listed Chinese
stocks. Many observers were quick to label these decisions as
moves toward greater openness, but they are better described as
efforts to recover recent equity-market losses.  The attempt to boost China’s  stock market  isn’t limited to
foreign investors. In March, the government announced it would
allow the pension fund of  Guangdong province  to invest in the
domestic stock market, a reform that had been prohibited due to
high volatility. Only a portion of the 441 billion-yuan ($70
billion) pension fund is expected to be invested in equities.
But Guo is being criticized by some in China for trying to
inflate the value of the fledgling stock market and not properly
considering the risks of investing in opaque Chinese companies.
The accusations may have some merit: Guo said at a conference in
February that Chinese stocks were an “exceptional value.”  Rather than seeing China’s recent reforms as steps toward
greater liberalization, one should see them for what they are:
attempts to deal with a weaker economy and a signal of a weaker
currency. If China’s broader financial liberalization parallels
that of  Japan  from the 1960s to the 1980s, it will take a long
time and suffer many setbacks. We shouldn’t expect reforms to
continue in a linear fashion, but to be adopted as needed.  A broad consensus in U.S. politics holds that American
leaders should unconditionally push China to liberalize its
currency and open its capital account. But we shouldn’t let this
view become too entrenched. China’s financial system is
relatively weak, and it is approaching a difficult domestic
transition to consumer-led growth. Insisting that China
completely liberalize before these domestic problems are sorted
out could risk triggering a second Asian financial crisis and
another recession in the U.S.  The most recent reforms are attempts to stabilize  China’s
economy , not a signal that China’s leaders are ready for full
liberalization or that they are convinced they have achieved a
soft landing.  (Samuel Sherraden is the associate director of the Economic
Growth Program at the  New America Foundation . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  India’s economic
crossroads  and  monitoring mad-cow disease ; A.A. Gill on  London’s
shareholder revolt ;  Ezra Klein  on  Richard Lugar’s concession
speech ;  Noah Feldman  on  Israel’s new coalition ;  Caroline Baum  on
the  nature of U.S. unemployment ; Reid Hastie on the  failure of
narrative thinking .  To contact the writer of this article: Samuel Sherraden at
 sherraden@newamerica.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  