-- CIC Stops Buying Europe Government Debt on Crisis Concern
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-05-10T07:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/china-investment-stops-buying-europe-debt-on-crisis-concern-1-.html
Gao Xiqing, president of  China 
Investment Corp., said the nation’s sovereign wealth fund has
stopped buying European government debt on concerns about the
region’s financial turmoil.  CIC will continue to look for new investments in Europe as
part of its strategy to boost allocations to infrastructure,
private-equity assets as well as  emerging markets  to help boost
returns, Gao said. CIC, with an estimated $440 billion in assets,
is the world’s fifth-largest country fund, according to
 Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute.   “What is happening in Europe right now is of course of
concern,” Gao said in an interview in  Addis Ababa ,  Ethiopia ,
during the  World Economic Forum  on Africa. “We still have our
people looking at opportunities in  Europe , even though we don’t
want to buy any  government bonds .”  Europe’s turmoil is reigniting on the second anniversary of
policy makers’ first attempt to prevent  Greece ’s woes from
spreading. That raises fresh doubt over the strategy just as
Greece’s election spurs concern that the country may not meet
the terms of its international rescues and will seek a solution
outside the euro.  The 17-nation euro area is on the verge of losing one of
its members, with more than 50 percent of investors predicting
an exit this year as Greece’s election impasse threatens to push
the crisis to new depths, according to a Bloomberg Global Poll.  “Two or three years ago we started moving gradually from
Europe and  North America  to  Asia  and  Latin America ,” Gao said.
“We aren’t doing too much” in Europe.  Bloomberg Poll  As Greece faces political paralysis and voters balk at
austerity, 57 percent of the 1,253 investors, analysts and
traders who are Bloomberg subscribers said at least one country
will abandon the euro by year-end and 80 percent expected more
pain for Europe’s bond markets. With a majority identifying a
deterioration in Europe as a large threat to the world economy,
respondents to the May 8 survey were increasingly worried  Spain 
will default and less willing to buy French debt.  “We will be watching very closely because it is a big part
of our investment,” Gao said. “It’s a long-term problem.
Europe is still Europe. It is still one of the most massive
economies in the world and has its own place in the world
capital markets.”  European Infrastructure  The euro posted its longest slump since 2008 and European
shares fell to the lowest in almost four months. Spain said
yesterday it would take over  Bankia SA (BKIA) , the banking group with
the most Spanish real estate, as part of efforts to bolster
confidence in the country’s lenders.  “I don’t expect them being a big buyer, or any substantial
buyer or seller of European government debt,” said Zhang Zhiming, head of China research for HSBC Holdings Plc in  Hong
Kong .  “The purpose of creating CIC is to seek high-risk,
higher-return investments,” which differentiates it from the
State Administration of Foreign Exchange, the main manager of
China’s foreign reserves that mainly invests in safer
investments such as government bonds.  “If European governments want to issue bonds, CIC is not a
main target institutional investor,” he said.  CIC is willing to consider infrastructure in Europe, and
can take stakes in companies that need capital, Jin Liqun, the
chairman of the fund’s supervisory board, told CNBC in December.  Bailout Funds  Government and government agency bonds accounted for 47
percent of CIC’s “diversified” fixed-income securities as of
Dec. 31, 2010, the fund said in its 2010 annual report without
disclosing figures for European government debt. “Diversified”
holdings were 76 percent of its global portfolio, as compared to
24 percent of “direct concentrated” investments, according to
the report, released in July.  The fund added new investments including  U.S. dollar 
aggregate bonds and euro covered bonds in 2010, the report said
without giving more details. Fixed-income investments accounted
for 27 percent of its global portfolio as of end of 2010, up
from 26 percent in 2009.  In February, People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan 
said the central bank will invest in Europe’s bailout funds and
sustain its holdings of euro assets.  “CIC is a vehicle to make investments overseas and doesn’t
necessarily represent what China sovereign is doing,” said Wee- Khoon Chong, fixed income strategist at Societe Generale SA in
Hong Kong in an interview.  Africa Investments  The fund is boosting investments outside of China as it
seeks to increase returns on the nation’s foreign-currency
reserves and secure commodity supplies. The Chinese government
injected about $50 billion this year in the sovereign wealth
fund, Gao said. The government has not made a decision on
whether to regularly inject capital into the company, he said.  “Right now, we are busy enough, so we don’t worry terribly
about recapitalization,” he said. “In the long run, we should
do something about it.”  The Chinese sovereign wealth fund would “love” to boost
investments in  Africa , Gao said. The company is limited in how
much it can invest in Africa because the projects are not large
enough to fit its investment criteria, he said.  “It’s probably not surprising that the Chinese authorities
are looking elsewhere,” said  Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-based
head of investment market research at Colonial First State
Global Asset Management, which oversees about $150 billion.
“Other investors in other parts of the world will be very
cautious about European debt at this moment.”  Mining Industry  The company only considers investments of at least about
$100 million in African companies and wants to take no more than
a 10 percent stake in them, he said. There are not many
companies outside of the  mining industry  in Africa that fit
those criteria, making spending on the world’s poorest continent
a challenge, he said.  The ventures need to have a return that is on average about
200 basis points, or 2 percentage points, more than investments
in the developed world, he said.  CIC will buy 25 percent of former South African politician
Cyril Ramaphosa’s Shanduka Group for 2 billion rand ($251
million), the company said on Dec. 22.  CIC was set up in 2007 with $200 billion from China’s
Ministry of Finance. The fund posted an 11.7 percent return on
its overseas investments in 2010, it said in its annual report,
compared with the 9.6 percent gain of the MSCI World Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  