-- Sinopec, PetroChina Facing Processing Losses on Price Cut
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-10T08:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/china-cuts-retail-fuel-prices-for-first-time-in-seven-months-2-.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  and
PetroChina Co., the nation’s biggest oil refiners, face more
losses from processing crude after the government cut fuel
prices for the first time since October. Their shares fell.  The maximum at which gasoline can be sold to motorists is
reduced by 330  yuan  ($52) a metric ton and by 310 yuan for
diesel starting today, the National Development and Reform
Commission said in a statement on its website yesterday. The
 pump price  of 90-RON,  China  III gasoline in Beijing falls to
10,050 yuan a ton, or $4.46 a U.S. gallon, according to
Bloomberg calculations from NDRC data. China III specification
is similar to the Euro III fuel standard.  The cut, in a range of 3.2 percent to 3.5 percent depending
on region, may increase financial pressure on China Petroleum,
also known as Sinopec, and PetroChina. Sinopec had a 16-fold
rise in its refining loss to 9.2 billion yuan in the first
quarter compared with a year earlier, the company said April 26.
PetroChina said its operating loss from processing widened to
10.4 billion yuan in the three months from 6.1 billion yuan a
year earlier.  “This will take their break-even crude cost to around $111
a barrel from $115,” Brynjar Eirik Bustnes, the regional head
of oil and gas equity research at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said by
telephone from  Hong Kong . “Operating profit will still be
slightly negative. They’re now processing somewhat expensive
crude, but hopefully the cost will decline very quickly when
they buy more and more cheaper crude.”  Vietnam  also lowered gasoline and diesel prices, the
 finance ministry  said today. The price of 92-RON gasoline is cut
to 23,300 dong ($1.12) per liter from 23,800, it said.  Crude Prices  Sinopec  fell  1.8 percent to close at HK$7.73 in Hong Kong
today, while PetroChina declined 2.1 percent to HK$10.52. The
benchmark  Hang Seng  index slid 0.5 percent.  The 22-day moving average of Brent, Dubai and Cinta, the
three crude grades tracked by the NDRC, the nation’s top
economic planner, fell 4 percent as of May 9 from the last price
adjustment on March 20, the agency said in a separate  statement 
yesterday. That’s the level at which the government considers
revising fuel tariffs under a pricing mechanism introduced in
December 2008.  China, the world’s second-largest oil consumer, last cut
prices in October and raised gasoline and diesel costs by 600
yuan a ton in March.  The nation has a plan to revise its fuel-pricing mechanism
and is waiting for an “appropriate time” to implement it, Zhou Wangjun, deputy director of the pricing department at the NDRC,
said in a webcast by the official Xinhua News Agency April 26.
The system will be implemented when global  oil prices  are
“relatively low,” Zhou said.  Pricing Rules  China will let oil companies set fuel prices according to
guideline rates posted by the government as part of planned
changes, Xinhua reported March 28, citing Peng Sen, a former
vice chairman at the NDRC. The new system may also shorten the
pricing cycle to 10 days from 22 days and replace  Indonesia ’s
Cinta with New York-traded West Texas Intermediate oil, China
Petrochemical Corp., the parent company of China Petroleum, said
in its online newsletter March 28.  “China seems to be quick to cut prices but slow to raise
them,”  Gordon Kwan , the head of regional energy research at
Mirae Asset Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong, said in an e-mail.
“This clearly suggests that the government still has lingering
concerns on inflation and is not ready to give the  oil companies 
free rein to set fuel prices any time soon.”  The NDRC delayed price adjustments last year to cushion the
impact on inflation, which exceeded the government’s 4 percent
annual target every month. Consumer prices rose 3.6 percent in
March from a year earlier, after a 3.2 percent increase in
February that was the smallest since June 2010.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
 Jing Yang  in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  