-- China Shipping Container Falls on Europe, Freight Rates
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-05-09T06:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/china-shipping-container-falls-on-europe-freight-rates.html
China Shipping Container Lines Co. (2866) ,
the nation’s second-biggest cargo-box carrier, plunged the most
in almost seven months because of concerns Europe’s economic
recovery may wane and about lines’ inability to raise rates.  The  operator  dropped as much as 9.9 percent in Hong Kong
trading, the biggest intraday decline since Oct. 18. It was down
9.5 percent at HK$2.19 as of 1:53 p.m. The benchmark  Hang Seng
Index  fell 0.9 percent.  Container lines including Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. and
 Orient Overseas International Ltd. (316)  also tumbled after Alexis
Tsipras, leader of Greece’s Syriza party, said he plans to form
a government that would cancel bailout accords, adding to
uncertainty about Europe’s economic stability. That could damp
shipping demand, undermining efforts by lines to raise rates.  “The decline reflects investors’ concern about the
European turmoil,” said Lawrence Li, a Shanghai-based analyst
with  UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. (UOBK)  “It’s also caused by shipping
lines’ recent failure to fully push through rate increases.”  Shipping lines were only able to boost Asia-Europe rates by
about $200 per 20-foot container from about May 1, compared with
targets of as much as $500, CSCL’s investor relations officer
said by phone today. She declined to be named, citing company
policy.  China-Europe spot rates rose 1 percent on May 4 from a week
earlier to $1,759.74 per box, according to Shanghai Shipping
Exchange  data .  Orient Overseas, Hong Kong’s biggest container line,
dropped as much as 4.3 percent in the city. Neptune Orient fell
as much as 4.9 percent in Singapore.  China Cosco Holdings Ltd. (1919) , the nation’s biggest listed
shipping company, fell as much as 5 percent in  Hong Kong . The
company’s parent separately said that Vale SA, the world’s
largest iron-ore miner, was boycotting its dry-bulk fleet. Vale
is seeking to gain access to Chinese ports for larger commodity
ships.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  