-- Cisco Shares Fall as Forecasts Miss Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-05-10T13:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/cisco-third-quarter-profit-rises-as-networking-spending-gains.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  fell the most in
15 months after the maker of computer-networking equipment
forecast fourth-quarter sales and profit that missed analysts’
estimates, saying some business clients are reluctant to spend.  Profit before some costs in the period ending in July will
be 44 cents to 46 cents a share, Cisco said on a conference call
yesterday. Revenue will rise 2 percent to 5 percent from a year
earlier, Cisco said, indicating a range of $11.4 billion to
$11.8 billion. Analysts on average had  projected  profit of 48
cents on sales of $12 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares fell as much as 9.3 percent in  Germany .  Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  said orders from big
companies dropped in the third quarter, and it’s taking longer
to sign large deals with corporate customers. Cisco is also
concerned about demand from  Europe ,  India  and government
agencies, he said. The weakness threatens to hamper turnaround
efforts started last year by Chambers, who has cut jobs, shut
businesses and reduced prices to win market share.  “It’s the economy,” said Matt Robison, an analyst at
Wunderlich Securities Inc., who has a buy rating on the stock.
“We’ve had some pretty squishy economic data in recent weeks,
and you’ve always got to brace for some caveats in the outlook
commentary from a company like Cisco.”  The shares fell 8.5 percent to $17.19 at 9:42 a.m. in  New
York , for the biggest intraday plunge since Feb. 10, 2011. They
had gained 3.9 percent this year before today.  ‘Hesitant Spending’  “We are seeing a hesitant spending environment,” Chambers
said on the conference call. “There are areas of the
macroeconomic environment we cannot control.”  Last year, Chambers took steps to slim down the company
amid slowing customer spending and increased competition from
Juniper Networks Inc., Hewlett-Packard Co. and Huawei
Technologies Co. Chambers fired thousands of workers, abandoned
less-profitable businesses such as the Flip video-camera unit,
and eliminated a council-based management structure that slowed
decision making. He refocused on the company’s main routing and
switching businesses and gave the sales team more freedom to do
deals faster.  “They’re executing pretty well, but I think they have more
they can do operationally,” Wunderlich’s Robison said.  Customer Attitudes  In the third quarter, which ended April 28, net income
climbed 20 percent to $2.17 billion, or 40 cents a share, from
$1.81 billion, or 33 cents, a year earlier, the  San Jose ,
California-based company said in a statement yesterday.  Sales rose 6.6 percent to $11.6 billion, matching the
average analyst  estimate . Profit before certain costs was 48
cents, compared with the average projection of 47 cents.  Chambers said the attitude of some large corporate
customers toward spending got “a little bit tougher” during
the third quarter. The 1 percent decline in orders from those
customers was a surprise, Robison said.  Cisco’s orders from telecommunications-service providers
rose 5 percent for the period, as the company’s price cuts
spurred demand. Many analysts were predicting that Cisco would
be hurt by weaker spending by service providers, which has
curbed growth at  Juniper Networks. (JNPR)   Industry Indicator  Cisco is seen as a bellwether for the broader technology
industry because 80 percent of its sales every quarter come from
new business, making its forecasts a reliable gauge of real-time
spending trends, said Frank Calderoni, Cisco’s chief financial
officer.  Networking products such as routers and switches are also
utility-like products that must be upgraded frequently to handle
increasing data traffic, he said.  “We really are just reflecting back what we’re hearing
from customers and what they’re experiencing,” Calderoni said
in an interview. He said the situation was changing quickly, and
shouldn’t be applied to the outlook beyond the fourth quarter.  Alkesh Shah, an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in New
York, said Cisco is “leaner and more competitive” after
Chambers’s cost cuts, and still stands to benefit from
increasing traffic on networks from bandwidth-heavy content,
such as online videos.  “The longer-term demand trends are intact and the stock is
inexpensive,” said Shah, who has the equivalent of a buy rating
on the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  