-- City Plans to Give Mancini $35 Million Contract: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-09T06:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/city-plans-to-give-mancini-35-million-contract-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Mancini’s Contract  Manchester City wants to celebrate winning the Premier
League by giving manager  Roberto Mancini  a four-year contract
worth 22 million pounds ($35.5 million), the  Sun reported .  City, which leads Manchester United on goal difference atop
the standings heading into the final round of games, had planned
to lift Mancini’s pay to 5.5 million pounds a year even if it
failed to win the title, the Sun added.  Arsenal Agrees Deal  Arsenal has agreed a deal in principle to sign Rennes
midfielder Yann M’Vila for about 17 million pounds, the  Daily
Mail reported . M’Vila wants to join the Gunners regardless of
their Champions League status next season, the newspaper added.  Vorm Wanted  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  is preparing a goalkeeping
overhaul and is lining up a move for Swansea City’s Michel Vorm,
the  Mail added .  Wenger wants an experienced ’keeper to provide competition
for first-choice Wojciech Szczesny as  Manuel Almunia  will leave
the club when his contract expires at the end of the season and
Lukasz Fabianski will also be let go, either on a season-long
loan or a permanent move, the paper added.  ‘Water Into Wine’  Ajax defender Jan Vertonghen has urged the Amsterdam club
not to price him out of an off-season transfer to Tottenham
Hotspur, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  “The board is asking a fair amount for a player who is
only contracted for another year,” the Telegraph cited the 25-
year-old as telling De Telegraaf newspaper. “I trust that Ajax
and Spurs can turn water into wine and sort it out soon.”  Hodgson’s Choice  John Terry  may be omitted from  England ’s Euro 2012 squad as
manager  Roy Hodgson  weighs a choice between the Chelsea defender
and  Manchester United ’s Rio Ferdinand, the  Independent reported .  Hodgson won’t take both to the tournament and is said to be
considering leaving out Terry, whose removal as England captain
prompted Fabio Capello’s departure as national team manager in
February, the newspaper added.  Rovers Warning  Blackburn’s Indian owner Venky’s was warned the club was
heading toward relegation from the Premier League six months ago
by deputy chief executive officer Paul Hunt, who outlined a 10-
point recovery plan including the firing of manager  Steve Kean ,
the  Guardian reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  