-- Cnooc Deploys Oil Rig as Weapon to Assert China Sea Claims
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-05-10T08:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/cnooc-deploys-oil-rig-as-weapon-to-assert-south-china-sea-claims.html
China ’s first deep-water drilling rig
began operations near islands in the South China Sea in a move
to assert Beijing’s territorial claims as travel agencies
suspended tours to the Philippines amid safety concerns.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore oil producer, said its
semi-submersible CNOOC 981 began drilling yesterday 320
kilometers (199 miles) southeast of  Hong Kong  at a depth of
1,500 meters, the official Xinhua News Agency reported. The area
is north of the Paracel islands claimed by China, Vietnam and
 Taiwan .  “Large deep-water drilling rigs are our mobile national
territory and strategic weapon for promoting the development of
the country’s offshore oil industry,” said Wang Yilin, Cnooc’s
chairman, according to Xinhua. The rig would help China secure
energy resources in the waters, it cited him as saying.  Competition for energy reserves in the sea has increased
tensions as countries shun joint development and improve their
respective naval capabilities. Chinese vessels have confronted
Vietnamese survey ships over the past year and have been locked
in a monthlong standoff with Philippine boats over a disputed
island in another area of the sea.  About 10 groups from China with as many as 500 tourists in
total canceled trips to the  Philippines , according to Maria
Victoria Jasmin, undersecretary in the Department of Tourism.
Chinese visitor arrivals to the Philippines increased 78 percent
from last year in the first three months of 2012 to about
96,000, making it the fastest growing market, she said.  ‘Word of Mouth’  “This is unusual because there is no advisory,” Jasmin
said by phone. “It’s like word of mouth spreading. ‘‘We need to
be very careful in the statements that we make lest we make the
situation worse.’’  Chinese travel agencies including Ctrip.com, its largest
online booking company, suspended tours to the Philippines over
the island dispute, Xinhua reported. The Philippines should stop
escalating tensions in the  South China Sea  and ensure the safety
of Chinese people and companies in the country, Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei said in Beijing.  ‘‘The development of indigenous deep-sea drilling is indeed
a big step forward for the Chinese,’’ said Gary Li, head of
marine and aviation forecasting at Exclusive Analysis Ltd., a
London-based business advisory firm. ‘‘They have blamed their
previous inability to harvest South China Sea resources
primarily on the lack of deep drilling technology.’’  Oil and Gas  The waters are estimated to have as much as 30 billion tons
of oil and 16 trillion cubic meters of gas, which would account
for about one-third of China’s oil and gas resources, Xinhua
said. China had 2 billion tons of proven oil reserves and 99
trillion cubic feet of natural gas reserves in 2010, according
to  BP Plc. (BP/)   China surpassed the U.S. as the world’s largest energy user
in 2010, Vietnam’s domestic gas is set to triple by 2025 and the
Philippines wants to reduce its near-total reliance on imports.
An agreement by the three nations to jointly explore parts of
the sea unraveled in 2008.  Philippine President  Benigno Aquino  said in a May 4
interview that he’s open to an agreement with China that would
allow companies to exploit oil and gas resources while the
governments separately resolve border disputes. Cnooc last week
invited  Philex Mining Corp. (PX)  Chairman  Manuel Pangilinan  to
Beijing for talks on jointly exploring a disputed area in the
sea that may contain the Philippines’ biggest gas field.  ‘Friendly’ Talks  ‘‘Discussions were friendly, constructive,” he told
reporters in  Manila  yesterday. “We’re not closing our doors.”  That contrasts with diplomatic ties. Chinese Vice Foreign
Minister Fu Ying summoned a Philippine diplomat over the
territorial spat three times over the past two months, according
to a May 7 statement from the ministry.  “Peace will be a luxury if tensions continue to rise,”
the English-language Global Times, a pro-Communist Party
newspaper, said in an editorial yesterday. “Under the
circumstances, the Philippines needs to be taught a lesson for
its aggressive nationalism.”  The Philippines and  Vietnam  have increased defense ties
with the U.S. while rejecting China’s  nine-dash map  of the South
China Sea as a basis for joint development. China has repeatedly
called for shelving disputes in favor of working together to
exploit the resources, with the latest appeal coming from
Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  in March.  Aquino has sought bids to develop two areas in the South
China Sea claimed by China, though he has yet to receive any
ahead of the July 31 deadline, Energy Secretary Jose Almendras
said on May 4. Vietnam objected in March to Cnooc’s plans to bid
out  Block 65/24 , which sits one nautical mile from the Paracels.  China ousted Vietnam from the 30 islets and reefs that
comprise the Paracels in a 1974 battle in which 71 soldiers were
killed. The countries also dispute the Spratly Islands further
to the south, an area near where fellow claimant the Philippines
is seeking to develop offshore exploration blocks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  