-- Coca-Cola Joins Subway Fat Fight as NYC Steps Up Attacks
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-05-09T20:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/coca-cola-joins-subway-fat-fight-as-nyc-steps-up-attacks-retail.html
For years,  New York City  has
campaigned to reduce sugary soft drink consumption. Its latest
ads, plastered all over New York’s subways, compare sugary
drinks with globs of fat and packets of sugar.  Now, beverage makers, including  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and  PepsiCo
Inc. (PEP) , are squaring off against city health officials with the
industry’s first-ever subway ad campaign. Industry-sponsored
placards inside train cars tout lower-calorie options and
package sizes as progress against obesity.  The city’s anti-soft drink campaign is “discriminatory and
singles out one product out of an array of foods and beverages,
all of which contribute equally to this very complex issue,”
said Chris Gindlesperger, a spokesman for the American Beverage
Association. The ABA, the industry’s chief lobby group, placed
the pro-soft drink ads.  Beverage makers are trying to reverse seven years of sales
declines in the $74 billion U.S. soft drink industry, which
still generates a bulk of profits. The decline came as some
consumers shunned sugar and artificial sweeteners. The industry
has spent tens of millions of dollars to beat back proposed
sugary beverage taxes in  New York state  and elsewhere.  The ad campaign is part of a concerted effort by soda
makers to win the public relations struggle against local and
state governments. PepsiCo, Coca-Cola and the American Beverage
Association have spent as much as $70 million on lobbying and
issue ads since the beginning of 2009, according to the Center
for Science in the Public Interest. In that time, at least 30
states proposed aggressive excise taxes on soft drinks, all of
which failed amid industry push back.  Subway Ads  Since placing its first subway ads almost three years ago,
New York’s health department has had the system to itself. The
city’s new campaign, funded with a $100,000 federal grant,
includes 1,000 placards inside about 20 percent of the system’s
rail cars, said Sam Miller, a department spokesman. The  subway
system  carries on average 5.3 million commuters each weekday.  The city’s ads, some in Spanish, depict a cloud of sugar
packets spilling its contents, which transform into globs of fat
oozing on beverage containers below the tagline, “Are you
Pouring on the Pounds?” One says drinking three 20-ounce sports
drinks or sodas, or three 16-ounce energy drinks, is like
consuming 40 packets of sugar. The ads, to be posted for three
months, warn that extra calories can lead to diabetes and heart
disease.  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  has advocated for state
taxes on sugary beverages. His office referred questions to the
health department. Bloomberg is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News.  ‘Drinking Themselves Fat’  “Americans are literally drinking themselves fat,”
Department Commissioner Thomas Farley said in an e-mailed
statement. “To counter the industry’s irresponsible marketing,
we are committed to providing  New Yorkers  with the facts about
the dangers of this overconsumption.”  The drink makers’ ads show workers for Coke, Pepsi,  Dr
Pepper (DPS)  and SunnyD side-by-side pushing hand trucks full of
sodas, juices, sports drinks and waters. It reads: “More
Choices. Smaller Portions. Fewer Calories. America’s beverage
companies are delivering.” Another ad is headlined, “More
Choices,” and says, “We’re dedicated to helping you choose
what’s right for you.”  The ads are part of a nationwide public relations campaign
started in February, and an offshoot of similar ABA programs in
recent years.  “We need to do our part to address obesity and that’s what
we are doing,” said Gindlesperger, citing clearer calorie
counts on labels and the pulling of full-calorie soft drinks
from schools in 2006.  Not Direct Counter  The ABA’s subway ads weren’t a direct counter to the health
department’s transit blitz, Gindlesperger said. He declined to
disclose the cost of the campaign or how many trains will be
included. The placards cover all interior ad spots on one full
side of a rail car.  Coca-Cola and PepsiCo referred questions to the ABA.  More than 35 percent of U.S. adults and about 17 percent of
youths -- or roughly 90 million people -- are considered obese,
according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. Advocates of sugary drink taxes say it is an
effective way to reverse the obesity trend.  Opponents say drink taxes are a money grab. The real cause
of excessive weight, they say, are too many calories of any type
going in and too few going out.  Whatever the cause, obesity in the U.S. comes at a
“staggering” financial cost, the CDC has said. Everything from
treatments for diabetes to lost work by obese employees cost
Americans about $147 billion in 2008, according to one estimate
cited by the agency.  Coca-Cola declined 0.5 percent to $76.78 at the close in
 New York . The shares have risen 9.7 percent this year. PepsiCo
fell 0.9 percent to $65.94 and is little changed this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  