-- Commerzbank Must Pay Bonus Promised to Dresdner Bankers
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-05-09T13:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/commerzbank-must-pay-bonuses-promised-to-dresdner-bankers.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK)  must pay bonuses
promised to more than 100  Dresdner Kleinwort  bankers who sued
the German lender after it failed to honor awards totaling about
50 million euros ($65 million), a U.K. judge said.  Commerzbank, which took over Dresdner in January 2009, was
accused by 104 bankers of breaking a promise by then-Dresdner
Chief Executive Officer Stefan Jentzsch the previous year, when
he said there would be a guaranteed 400 million euros for
bonuses.  Judge Robert Owen in  London  agreed the bank broke its
pledge, meaning the former bankers can now receive the unpaid
bonuses, as much as 2 million euros for some individuals.  “This case has unequivocally gone in the bankers’ favor,
which means that banks will be held to account and be given very
little wriggle room to avoid or reduce guaranteed bonuses,”
employment lawyer  Jo Keddie  at Winckworth Sherwood LLP said in
an e-mail. She said the case was the largest group action on
bonuses ever brought in the U.K.  Bonuses in the financial-services industry are under attack
from lawmakers and shareholders who oppose what they view as
unfair rewards for those who derailed the global economy. The
European Parliament wants new capital rules to include bonus
limits, while  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Aviva Plc (AV/) 
shareholders rebelled against executive pay plans.  Appeal Planned  Commerzbank said it would appeal today’s verdict.  “The bank believes that the decision to reduce
discretionary bonuses in light of 6.5 billion euros of losses at
Dresdner Kleinwort for 2008 was responsible and justified,” it
said in a statement.  Germany’s second-largest lender said at a January trial
that it was entitled to cut bonus payouts by more than 90
percent for bankers including Desmond McNamara, former head of
risk management at Dresdner’s capital-markets division, because
of the record losses at the investment banking unit.  Judge Owen rejected Frankfurt-based Commerzbank’s argument
the guaranteed pool wasn’t valid because it had inserted a
clause in bonus letters saying payouts could be adjusted if
Dresdner’s performance was significantly worse than expected.  Commerzbank, which took an 18.2 billion-euro bailout from
 Germany  during the credit crunch that followed the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., has been sued in London, Germany
and  Singapore  by other workers who claim they weren’t paid what
they were owed after the buyout.  Performance Adjustment  Testifying at the London trial, Commerzbank CEO Martin Blessing criticized the group of bankers for caring more about
money than loyalty, and said he didn’t like the guaranteed bonus
pool.  The court found that Commerzbank broke its promise “not
because of the performance of Dresdner Kleinwort, but because of
sensitivity to the public perception of the payment of
bonuses,” said Mark Levine, a lawyer representing a group of
the bankers.  Dresdner’s performance had “fallen off a cliff” in 2008,
which justified cutting bonuses, Thomas Linden, a lawyer for the
bank, told the court in February.  McNamara, the former head of risk at Dresdner, testified at
trial that he was “only claiming the amount my line manager
determined during the year my performance was worth.”  Discretionary Bonus  His salary and guaranteed bonus for 2008 totaled around
400,000 pounds ($644,000), while Commerzbank chose not to pay a
discretionary bonus he was told was worth another $394,000,
McNamara said.  Commerzbank surpassed the European Banking Authority’s
target of raising 5.3 billion euros, the biggest assigned to six
German lenders, by 1.1 billion euros at the end of March, the
lender said today in a statement. The bank beat the EBA’s June
30 deadline by reducing risk-weighted assets, retaining profits
and selling assets.  Dresdner’s management set up the bonus pool to ensure
“stability” and respond to the concerns of U.K. regulators,
Jentzsch told the court in February.  The U.K. Financial Services Authority had put Dresdner on
its watch list in 2008 because the regulator was worried key
staff would leave while the future of the investment-banking
division was being decided by its then-owner  Allianz SE. (ALV)   “It was quite wrong of the bank to renege on its
commitment” to the bankers and the FSA, said Clive Zietman, a
lawyer representing some of the Dresdner claimants. “Our
clients would now very much like to be able to say that these
proceedings are closed.”  The London bonus cases include: Mr. Fahmi Anar & Others v.
Dresdner Kleinwort Ltd., Commerzbank AG,  High Court  of Justice,
Queen’s Bench Division, HQ09X05230 and Richard Attrill & 71
others v. Dresdner Kleinwort Limited, Commerzbank AG, HQ09X04007  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  