-- Commerzbank Exceeds Capital Target as Profit Declines
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-05-09T12:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/commerzbank-profit-drops-56-as-europe-s-crisis-curbs-earnings.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK)  exceeded the capital
target set by  Europe ’s top banking regulator, even as  Germany ’s
second-biggest lender posted lower-than-estimated profit in the
first quarter.  Commerzbank surpassed the European Banking Authority’s
target of raising 5.3 billion euros ($6.9 billion), the biggest
assigned to six German lenders, by 1.1 billion euros at the end
of March, the Frankfurt-based company said today in a statement.
The bank beat the EBA’s June 30 deadline by reducing risk-
weighted assets, retaining profits and selling assets.  Europe’s leaders sought to restore confidence in the
banking industry’s ability to withstand the region’s sovereign
debt crisis by ordering lenders to boost capital. The EBA told
banks in December to raise 114.7 billion euros in fresh capital
to attain a core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial strength,
of at least 9 percent of risk-weighted assets after accounting
for writedowns on some European sovereign bonds.  “Fulfilling the EBA capital requirement ahead of the
deadline is definitely positive,” said  Christian Muschick , an
analyst with Silvia Quandt Research in  Frankfurt  who has a
neutral recommendation on the stock. “Now we have to see if the
markets remain positive for that result to be sustainable.”  Commerzbank rose as much as 3.4 percent and was up 1.2
percent to 1.55 euros as of 1:40 p.m. in Frankfurt trading,
bringing this year’s gain to 19 percent. The stock is the only
advancer on the 53-company Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index, which is down 2.4 percent.  Profit Miss  First-quarter net income fell to 369 million euros from 985
million euros in the year-earlier period, Commerzbank said. That
missed the 437 million-euro mean  estimate  of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The earnings were pretty weak and fulfilled the bottom
end of expectations,” said  Christian Hamann , an analyst with
 Hamburger Sparkasse  who recommends investors sell the stock.
“They still have to work on lowering their risk and that will
reduce earnings.”  Profit declined after the loss at Commerzbank’s ABF
business, which includes its Eurohypo and shipping units, more
than tripled to 425 million euros from the year earlier period.  Commerzbank will wind down Eurohypo, the lender’s public
finance and real estate finance unit, to meet European
Commission conditions for state aid received during the
financial crisis.  Loan-Loss Provisions  More than half of Commerzbank’s first-quarter loan-loss
provisions of 212 million euros were booked at its ship finance
unit, Chief Financial Officer Stephan Engels said on a
conference call. Ship finance provisions are expected to
increase this year from 2011 and were about 110 million euros in
the first quarter, Dirk Wilhelm Schuh, the bank’s chief credit
risk officer, said on the call.  Commerzbank became the world’s third-largest shipping
lender after acquiring Dresdner Bank AG in 2008, doubling the
size of its maritime-loan portfolio just before the industry
entered its biggest crisis since World War II.  The bank is targeting “a maximum of 1.7 billion euros” of
loan-loss provision this year, said CFO Engels. That equates to
a 22 percent increase on 2011.  Operating profit at the corporate clients unit, known as
the Mittelstandsbank, rose to 487 million euros from 415 million
euros a year earlier. Commerzbank is the biggest lender to
German corporate clients.  Commerzbank reduced its risks related to  Greece , Ireland,
 Italy ,  Portugal  and  Spain  to 12.1 billion euros at the end of
March, from 12.3 billion euros three months earlier. The lender
said it wound down its Greek debt portfolio in the first
quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  