-- Commodities Drop a 6th Day as Greek Crisis Fuels Concerns
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2012-05-09T20:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/commodities-drop-for-sixth-day-as-greek-crisis-fuels-concern-1-.html
Commodities fell, marking the longest
slump since August, as a global equity rout and an unraveling
bailout of Greece increased the risk that a slowdown in the
global economy will curb demand for raw materials.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot  Index (MXWD) , which tracks 24
commodities, lost less than 0.1 percent to settle at 648.28 at
3:44 p.m. in  New York , leaving the gauge up 0.5 percent this
year. The index fell to 641.8 yesterday, the lowest since Dec.
29, as the euro extended a drop. Silver and gold plunged to
four-month lows. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities
dropped to the lowest since January today.  Wheat, corn and zinc led the commodity decline today after
the head of Greece’s biggest party failed to reach an agreement
on a new government. That left responsibility for forming an
administration to Alexis Tsipras of the Syriza party, who said
he’ll cancel the bailout. Services and manufacturing shrank in
April in the euro region, and unemployment soared to a 15-year
high, according to reports last week. The U.S. added fewer jobs
than forecast last month, government data showed last week.  “Investors should adopt the fetal position,” said  John Stephenson , who helps to manage $2.7 billion at First Asset
Investment Management Inc. in Toronto. Commodity prices may
extend declines, he said.  Oil fell for a sixth day, the longest slump in almost two
years, with the futures contract for June delivery declining as
much as 1.9 percent to $95.17 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Gold futures for June delivery lost as much
as 1.6 percent to $1,578.50 an ounce on the Comex, the lowest
since Jan. 3. Silver futures for July delivery fell as much as
2.9 percent to a four-month low of $28.615 an ounce.  ‘Off the Table’  “You’ve got U.S. growth, which looked promising,
softening,” Stephenson said. “You’ve got Europe clearly in the
middle of a crisis, and you’ve got  China  still reluctant to be
accommodative. For a while, global growth is off the table.”  In Greece, Tsipras said he expected Antonis Samaras of  New
Democracy  and  Evangelos Venizelos , who leads Pasok, to revoke
written pledges to implement austerity. Both rejected the call.  The euro dropped for an eighth straight session to the
lowest since late January. European stocks fell to the lowest
level in almost four months, and Spanish  default risk  climbed to
a record.  Base metals declined, with zinc falling as much as 2.5
percent to $1,925.75 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange,
the lowest since Jan. 12. Lead dropped as much as 2.2 percent.
Wheat prices fell 2.4 percent, marking the biggest decline in a
week on the Chicago Board of Trade, on the outlook for increased
U.S. supplies.  “Political turmoil in Greece raised concerns that the
nation may not implement austerity measures and worsen  Europe ’s
debt crisis,” Ken Kajisa, an analyst at broker ACE Koeki Co. in
 Tokyo , said by telephone. “Risk aversion by investors
increased, leading to sales of industrial commodities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  