-- Connecticut Closes Deficit as Malloy Tax Hike Falls Short
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-05-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/connecticut-closes-deficit-as-malloy-tax-hike-falls-short.html
Connecticut  lawmakers amended a two-
year budget to close a gap while adding $143 million in new
spending even as Governor Dannel Malloy’s historic tax increases
fail to generate as much revenue as forecast.  The Legislature, run by Democrats, voted yesterday to amend
the $40.1 billion plan that Malloy, 56, used to boost taxes by
$2.6 billion, the most in state history. The bill adds education
spending as it trims some programs, delays borrowing and siphons
off other state funds to keep the budget balanced.  The steps to close the projected $200 million gap break the
Democrat’s pledge to avoid budget shenanigans, Republicans said.  “More broken promises from the governor who said he would
never borrow to keep the government going,” state
Representative Lawrence Cafero, the Republican House leader from
Norwalk, said yesterday in a statement. “Now they are going to
raid dedicated funds and close the massive state deficit we were
never going to have with one-shot gimmicks.”  A minority of U.S. states, including Connecticut,
California and  New York , have reported revenue missing
forecasts, according to a survey by the Denver-based National
Conference of State Legislatures. From  New Jersey  to Indiana and
 Arizona , 29 states have projected cash surpluses at the end of
the current fiscal year, the group said on May 3.  Freshman Governor  Malloy, first elected in 2010, and lawmakers said last
month that the state would collect $125 million less than
forecast for the current fiscal year, which ends in June, citing
weak income-tax receipts. The levies rose for residents earning
more than $50,000 annually under the measure passed in May 2011.  The governor acknowledged the shortfall, saying it probably
resulted from declines in financial-services industry bonuses
and as taxpayers shifted the timing of  capital gains  and income
ahead of potential U.S. tax code changes. Cuts in federal tax
rates on income and capital gains first enacted under President
 George W. Bush  are set to end in December.  Malloy, a former  Stamford  mayor who won his office in
Hartford by fewer than 6,000 votes, faced a $3.5 billion deficit
last year. He closed it largely by boosting tax rates, with the
biggest increases on those earning between $100,000 and
$500,000. He also raised sales levies to 6.35 percent from 6
percent and broadened its coverage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 