-- Cosco Says Vale Shuns Its Vessels on China Mega-Ship Ban
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-09T08:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/cosco-says-vale-shuns-its-vessels-on-china-mega-ship-ban.html
China  Ocean Shipping (Group) Co., the
nation’s biggest operator of dry-bulk ships, said  Vale SA (VALE3)  was
refusing to use its vessels to protest a Chinese ban on the
Brazilian miner’s mega-ships.  The state-owned company, known as Cosco, expects a “big”
impact on operations from the boycott and it’s considering
filing a complaint with China’s Ministry of Commerce, President
Ma Zehua said in an interview yesterday in Beijing. Vale, the
world’s biggest iron-ore producer, has shunned Cosco’s fleet for
about two months, even if it meant using more expensive ships
from other owners, he said. Unit China Cosco Holdings Co. fell
to the lowest in almost four months in Hong Kong.  “Many recent steps taken by Vale aren’t rational,” Ma
said. “We believe their decisions are based on their perception
that Cosco is doing something to lobby the government and not
allow Valemaxes into Chinese ports.”  Cosco has safety concerns about the Valemax vessels, which
are almost as big as the Bank of America Tower in  New York , Ma
said. The miner’s plan to spend at least $8 billion on a fleet
of 35 mega-ships has also hit shipowners’ earnings by creating
new competition, and stoked tensions between  Brazil  and China
according to  Johnson Leung , a Jefferies Group Inc. analyst.  “We don’t think the 400,000-ton iron-ore carrier designed
and built by Vale is a safe design,” Ma said. “Over the years
ahead, we may see a growing number of safety problems.”  Iron Ore  Vale, based in  Rio de Janeiro , didn’t comment on whether it
was boycotting Cosco or on safety concerns in reply to Bloomberg
News questions about the topics. The company has previously said
it expects to eventually win Chinese permission to use the ships.  “As usual, Vale respects China’s sovereign decision about
the issue,” it said. The  miner  sold 47 percent of its  iron ore 
and pellets to Chinese customers in the first quarter, up from
41 percent a year earlier.  China transport ministry spokesman He Jianzhong didn’t
answer a call to his office in Beijing today.  China Cosco, which operates commodity vessels and  Asia ’s
biggest container-ship fleet, fell 4.7 percent in Hong Kong to
HK$4.04, the lowest closing price since Jan. 16. The Tianjin-
based company has tumbled 44 percent in the past year.  Rates (BDIY)  for capesize vessels, which are about half the size
of Valemaxes, were the lowest on average since at least 2000 in
the first quarter because of a glut of ships and slower Chinese
demand for iron-ore shipments.  China Cosco (1919) , which operated 88
capesize vessels as of March 31, posted a first-quarter  loss  of
2.7 billion  yuan  ($430 million). The capesizes accounted about
half its dry-bulk capacity.  Valemax Fleet  Vale plans to buy 19 very large ore carriers, each about
400,000 deadweight tons, and to lease another 16 on long-term
contracts, as it seeks lower freight costs to China from Brazil.
Chinese shipyards will build 20 of the vessels.  So far, 10 Valemax vessels have been delivered, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, even as Vale struggles to get
permission to use Chinese ports. The miner has instead set up a
transit facility in the  Philippines  where iron ore can be taken
off mega-ships and loaded onto smaller vessels.  “This started as a commercial issue and then escalated
into a political matter,” said Jefferies Group’s Leung. “It
could drag on for a long time.”  China Shipping Development Co. (1138) , the dry-bulk unit of
China’s No. 2 shipping group, hasn’t had vessels refused by Vale,
said Yin Cheng, its head of ocean shipping. Most of the
company’s dry-bulk fleet is on long-term contracts with Chinese
steelmakers, she said.  Vale said last year that three Chinese ports -- Dalian,
Dongjiakou and Majishan -- were able to handle mega-ships. The
388,000-ton Berge Everest delivered a load to Dalian in December,
the only time one of the vessels has taken cargo to a Chinese
port.  Shipowners Protests  The China Shipowners Association, whose members hold about
80 percent of the nation’s shipping capacity, has complained to
the government about the Valemax ships and called on Vale to
stop building them. It has also advised members not to take on
the vessels. Vale has held talks with Chinese operators about
selling or leasing mega-ships, Teddy Tang, chief financial
officer of its China operations, said in September.  Opposition has contributed to the government not yet
approving the use of Vale ships at Chinese ports, Zhang Changfu,
general secretary of the China Iron & Steel Association, said
yesterday. Steelmakers would welcome the vessels because they
would reduce freight costs, he said.  The savings may not be that big as many Chinese steelmakers
are located in inland provinces and they will still need to
transport the iron ore from coastal ports, Ma said.  Brazil-China Relations  The Valemax spat, discussed by Brazilian Vice President
Michel Temer and Chinese Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  in February,
is part of wider tense relations between Brazil and China. Last
year, Brazil slapped tariffs on a range of Chinese goods to
defend local manufacturers. A tax on imported cars also affected
Chinese automakers.  China surpassed the U.S. as Brazil’s largest trading
partner in 2009. Trade between the two grew 16 percent last year
to $77.1 billion.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  