-- Oil Near Three-Month Low on Growth Concern, Stockpiles
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-05-10T07:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/crude-oil-falls-for-a-seventh-day-in-longest-decline-since-2009.html
Oil traded near the lowest price in
more than three months after U.S. stockpiles climbed, Chinese
crude imports fell and  Europe ’s debt crisis worsened.  Futures were little changed in New York after falling for
six days. U.S. crude inventories rose 3.7 million barrels last
week to  379.5 million , the highest level since 1990, even as
fuel supplies shrank,  Department of Energy  data showed.  China ’s
crude imports fell to the lowest in four months in April, while
total goods exports rose at less than half the prior month’s
rate.  Greece  struggled to form a government and the cost of
insuring against a Spanish debt default increased to a record.  China’s trade slowdown “is symptomatic of ongoing
nervousness around the world and in Europe in particular,” said
Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney.
“That, in combination with larger inventory figures in the
U.S., has got us in a downtrend.”  Crude for June delivery was at $96.65 a barrel, down 16
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
at 3:34 p.m. Singapore time. The contract yesterday slid 20
cents to $96.81, the lowest close since Feb. 2. Prices are 2.2
percent lower this year.  Brent oil for June settlement was at $113.08 a barrel, down
12 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate
was at $16.43, compared with $16.39 yesterday.  Technical Indicators  Oil’s decline in New York stalled after its 14-day relative
strength index fell to 30, a reading that indicates further
losses may not be sustained, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Prices have yet to settle lower than the 200-day
moving average after trading below that level the past three
days, showing there is technical support. The indicator is
around $96.28 a barrel today.  Crude stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for WTI, rose 1.16 million barrels to a record 44.1 million,
according to the Department of Energy report.  Fuel inventories fell and refineries operated at 86.4
percent of capacity, the highest level since the week ended Dec.
2. Gasoline supplies slid 2.61 million barrels, more than three
times the 750,000-barrel decrease forecast. Stockpiles of
distillate fuel, a category that includes heating oil and
diesel, dropped 3.25 million barrels.  Debt Crisis  China’s net crude imports slid to 22.21 million metric tons
last month, or 5.4 million barrels a day, the lowest level since
December, according to customs data released today. Refineries
curbed purchases amid maintenance and factories’ demand for fuel
faltered as China’s growth in goods exports slowed to 4.9
percent from 8.9 percent in March, missing economists’
estimates.  Oil’s decline this week is because of “a combination of
factors,” said Diego Parrilla, chief investment officer at
NARECO Advisors in Singapore. “The inventories play some part.
It’s the general macroeconomic sentiment as the situation in
Europe has deteriorated.”  China Investment Corp., the nation’s sovereign wealth fund,
has stopped buying European government debt because of the
crisis there, CIC President Gao Xiqing said yesterday in an
interview in  Addis Ababa ,  Ethiopia .  Credit-default swaps on Spanish debt rose 21 basis points
to a record 520 yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Greece’s political turmoil entered a fourth day with
coalition talks deadlocked after elections failed to deliver a
majority for any party.  The European Union accounted for 16 percent of the world’s
oil consumption in 2010, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical
Review of World Energy.  London ’s oil futures market was busier than its New York
counterpart for the first time in at least 17 years last month,
reinforcing Brent crude’s ascendant role in setting global
prices. Investors traded 11.3 million Brent futures on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in April, compared with 10.6 million
West Texas Intermediate contracts, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in  Singapore  at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  