-- Oil Falls for Sixth Day as Inventories Near 22-Year High
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-05-09T19:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/crude-oil-falls-for-sixth-day-in-longest-drop-since-2010.html
Oil fell a sixth day in  New York , the
longest losing streak in almost two years, as U.S. crude
supplies rose and Greece struggled to form a government, adding
to concern that Europe’s economy is weakening.  Futures dropped after the Energy Department said  stockpiles 
climbed 3.65 million barrels to 379.5 million, the most since
August 1990. Inventories were forecast to advance 2 million
barrels, according to the median of 12 analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. Equities slipped and the euro weakened after
weekend elections in Greece.  “Crude inventories have climbed by a cumulative 49.8
million barrels this year, which is impossible to ignore,” said
 Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York. “The investors that have used this market as a financial
instrument have to take note of the fundamentals. We won’t get
rid of these excess inventories anytime soon.”  Crude oil for June delivery fell 20 cents to $96.81 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Feb. 2. The price has slipped 8.8 percent in
six days, which is the longest downward run since July 2010.  The contract dropped below the 200-day moving average in
intraday trading before rebounding to close 52 cents above the
target. The contract last settled below the technical level in
December. Buy and sell orders tend to be clustered near chart-
support levels.  Technical Support  “There’s a lot going on technically,” said  John Kilduff ,
a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that
focuses on energy. “A lot of technical support has been broken
over the last week, the euro is breaking down and crude
inventories are rising. This is all putting downward pressure on
the market.”  Brent oil for June settlement rose 47 cents to $113.20 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.  Crude  stockpiles at Cushing , Oklahoma, the delivery point
for West Texas Intermediate oil, the grade traded in new York,
rose 1.16 million barrels to a record 44.1 million.  Refineries operated at 86.4 percent of capacity, the
highest level since the week ended Dec. 2, the report showed.  Lower fuel stockpiles pared the decline. Gasoline
inventories fell 2.61 million barrels to 207.1 million, more
than three times the 750,000-barrel decrease forecast.
Inventories of  distillate fuel , a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, dropped 3.25 million barrels to 120.8 million.  “There’s been a remarkable gain in crude inventories,”
Kilduff said. “At the same time, product stocks continue to
decline, which will lend some support to the market.”  Gasoline for June delivery climbed 2.97 cents, or 1
percent, to $3.0241 a gallon in New York.  Greek Vote  The election aftermath in  Greece , which has 436 million
euros ($566 million) of debt coming due on May 15, weakened the
euro versus the dollar for an eighth day. The euro fell as much
as 0.7 percent to a three-month low of $1.2912. A stronger U.S.
currency reduces the appeal of raw materials as an investment.  “We have a big supply increase coupled with a strong
dollar,” said Todd Horwitz, chief strategist at Adam Mesh
Trading Group in  Chicago . “It’s a double whammy.”  Alexis Tsipras of Greece’s anti-bailout Syriza party gave
up a bid to build a coalition.  Evangelos Venizelos , the
socialist Pasok leader and former finance minister, said he’ll
try to form a government when he receives a three-day mandate
from President Karolos Papoulias tomorrow.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  declined for the fifth time
in six days, dropping 0.5 percent.  “There’s a negative tone to equities and the euro because
of changes in Europe, with Greece the chief concern at the
moment,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Sovereign Debt  The sovereign debt crisis began in Greece and then moved to
Ireland,  Portugal ,  Italy  and  Spain . The cost of insuring against
a Spanish default surged to a record on concern that a bailout
of  Bankia SA (BKIA) , the nation’s third-biggest lender, won’t fend off
a banking crisis triggered by bad real estate loans.  There is increasing speculation Spain will become the
fourth European country to seek a rescue as its lenders become
overwhelmed by 184 billion euros ($239 billion) of what the
nation’s central bank terms “problematic” assets linked to
real estate.  “We’re facing price pressure on the supply side and the
demand side,” said David McAlvany, chief executive officer of
McAlvany Financial Group in Durango,  Colorado . “There’s
palpable fear in Europe, and it’s not limited to Greece.”  Price Projections  The Energy Department reduced its 2012 price projection for
crude oil as supply is forecast to expand faster than fuel
consumption. Oil in New York will average $104.12 a barrel this
year, down 1.5 percent from the April forecast of $105.72, the
department’s Energy Information Administration said yesterday in
its monthly Short-Term Energy Outlook.  Electronic trading volume of crude oil on the Nymex was
580,269 contracts as of 3:22 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled
661,078 contracts yesterday, 7.8 percent above the three-month
average. Open interest was 1.59 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  