-- Dana $1 Billion Sukuk Yield Jumps to Record, Shares Drop
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-05-09T12:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/dana-falls-to-lowest-in-3-months-on-debt-woes-abu-dhabi-mover.html
The yield on  Dana Gas PJSC (DANA) ’s Islamic
bonds due in October jumped to a record after investors were
said to have hired  law firm  Linklaters LLP to help negotiate the
restructuring of the $1 billion Islamic bonds.  The yield on the 7.5 percent notes soared to 85.2 percent
at 4:31 p.m. in Dubai, prices compiled by Bloomberg show. The
Sharjah, United Arab Emirates-based company’s shares dropped 2.3
percent to 42 fils, the lowest in three months, at the 2 p.m.
close in  Abu Dhabi . The benchmark  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  retreated
0.2 percent.  The London-based law firm was hired last month, said three
people familiar with the matter yesterday, declining to be
identified because the information is private. The company hired
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  to advise on restructuring the Islamic
bonds, three people familiar with the matter said in April.
Deutsche Bank AG is also advising the gas explorer, two people
with knowledge of the matter said in January. Dana Gas said that
month it would continue to meet its debt obligations. The
company and Linklaters declined to comment yesterday.  “Although the company announced in the beginning of the
year that it will meet its obligations, the recent appointment
of Blackstone as a financial adviser and the news of appointing
Linklaters as legal adviser is guiding us to an imminent
restructuring,” said Tariq Qaqish, deputy head of asset
management at Dubai-based Al Mal Capital. “It seems like not
all creditors are agreeing.”  Dana Gas, whose chief executive officer plans to retire
this year, produces and explores for oil and gas in  Egypt  and
Iraq’s Kurdish region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  