-- Default Swaps in U.S. Rise to Highest Level in a Month on Greece
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-05-09T21:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/default-swaps-in-u-s-rise-to-highest-level-in-a-month-on-greece.html
A gauge of corporate credit risk
increased to the highest level in nearly a month as  Greece 
struggled to form a coalition government, potentially derailing
the country’s bailout.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, added 2.5 basis points to a mid-price of 103.4
basis points at 5:42 p.m. in  New York , according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. Contracts linked to mail-services
provider  Pitney Bowes Inc. (PBI)  increased the most since January.  The swaps index rose as concern mounted that Greece will be
forced out of the euro area after elections left the country’s
parliament divided, rattling global markets. Coalition talks
deadlocked, opening the possibility that another election will
have to be held.  “What happens in  Europe  can be very important to the
performance of U.S.-based corporations and therefore their debt,
equity and derivative securities,” said Marc Pinto, head of
corporate bond strategy at New York-based Susquehanna
International Group. “Correlation among asset classes can tend
to increase whenever you have major disruptions in the
marketplace.”  The index, which reached 104.6 basis points earlier in the
day, was last at a higher level on April 10 when it touched
105.1 basis points.  ‘Shoot First’  The gauge pared some of its early rise as German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  was quoted in Passauer Neue Presse as saying she
aims to keep Greece in the European Union.  “When multiple uncertainties are plaguing the market,
investors will sometimes be more inclined to shoot first and ask
questions later,” Pinto said.  The credit-default swaps measure, which typically rises as
investor confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, has
increased for five straight days. The contracts pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The cost to protect against losses on the debt of Pitney
Bowes increased by 18 basis points to a mid-price of 370.2 basis
points. That’s the biggest climb for swaps tied to the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based company since they rose 21.5 basis points Jan.
5.  Standard & Poor’s  changed its credit-rating outlook on the
postal meter-maker and mailing services provider to negative
from stable after the company reported a 5.1 percent decline in
quarterly revenue from the same period last year. “The company
remains challenged to achieve stable revenues in the current
weak economy,” the S&P analysts wrote, while affirming the BBB+
rating on the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  