-- DeNA, Gree to Stop Game Feature Scrutinized by Regulators
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-05-09T10:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/dena-to-abandon-gaming-payment-system-scrutinized-by-regulators.html
DeNA Co. (2432)  and  Gree Inc. (3632) , Japan’s two
biggest social-gaming operators, will stop offering a game
feature scrutinized by regulators who said charges to use it
were in some cases excessive.  DeNA will stop using the “complete gacha” function in
games, President Isao Moriyasu told reporters in Tokyo today.
Gree will also halt it by May 31, Shinichi Iriyama, a spokesman,
said by phone.  DeNA and Gree  plunged  in Tokyo trading for a third day
today after the consumer agency’s May 7 announcement it was
probing whether “complete gacha,” where players pay to
accumulate virtual tokens online, is legal. Gree said yesterday
it almost tripled profit in the three months ended March 31 as
it drew users to games, including those with the “complete
gacha” feature on its own online social network.  “The companies would lose a profit opportunity if the
government regulates the method,” said Makoto Kikuchi, chief
executive officer at Myojo Asset Management  Japan  Co., a Tokyo-
based hedge fund advisory firm. “Users will move away.”  Japan’s social-gaming market may expand 33 percent from a
year earlier to about 343 billion yen ($4.3 billion) this fiscal
year, Yano Research Institute Ltd. forecast in January. That
would be 70 times the 4.9 billion-yen market in 2008, according
to estimates by the researcher.  Profit Reduction  A ban on “complete gacha” could reduce Gree’s net income
by 18 percent and DeNA’s by 6 percent, said David Gibson, a
Tokyo-based analyst at Macquarie Securities Ltd., who has an
underperform rating on both companies.  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the world’s biggest developer of games for
social-networking sites, had revenue $1.1 billion in sales last
year.  KLab Inc., another Tokyo-based social-game operator, also
plans to abandon “complete gacha” effective May 31, it said in
a statement to the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange today. The shares  gained 
3.2 percent to 489 yen at the close of Tokyo trading after the
announcement, erasing earlier losses.  Gree fell 9.6 percent today, bringing its drop this week to
31 percent. DeNA declined 22 percent this week, compared with a
3.6 percent three-day drop in the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average.  Similar to Gambling  Japan’s Consumer Affairs Agency will issue an opinion on
“complete gacha” next week at the earliest, Hirohiko
Fukushima, secretary general of the agency, said today. The
agency has said games with the feature entice users with an
appeal that’s similar to gambling.  “Complete gacha” users pay about 300 yen for each virtual
token, which can be converted to a more valuable virtual item if
the player obtains the right combination or a “complete” set.  Gacha gacha are the Japanese words for vending machines
that dispense miniature toys or prizes in plastic capsules
without showing the contents beforehand. Buyers take a chance
they will receive a desired item after inserting coins and
turning a knob.  One “complete gacha” user’s charges totaled 4 million yen
in two months, according to the minutes of the consumer agency’s
panel meeting in February. Some users also offer virtual items
on auction sites, the panel said.  “There may be a need for some regulation, as children get
charged hundreds of thousands of yen a month” to obtain special
virtual items, Fukushima told reporters in Tokyo today. “We
first want to call on companies to make changes on their own.”  Industry Panel  Six companies including DeNA and Gree set up a panel in
March to discuss measures to improve social gaming. The panel
will cooperate fully with the government and release guidelines
by May 31, Gree’s founder and President Yoshikazu Tanaka said at
a press conference in Tokyo yesterday, after the company
reported that third-quarter profit almost tripled.  DeNA’s revenue may not decline this fiscal year from last
year, Moriyasu said today.  Gree kept its forecast unchanged yesterday. It predicted
net income may total between 44 billion yen and 50 billion yen
in the year ending June 30.  “Even if complete gacha is abandoned, it won’t rock the
foundation of Gree,” Ryotaro Shima, head of Gree’s corporate
division, said yesterday. “We will consider introducing new
services to spur sales.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  