-- Denmark’s Banks Endure Writedown Shock Delaying Recovery
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-05-09T10:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/denmark-s-banks-endure-writedown-shock-delaying-recovery.html
Denmark’s banks face larger writedowns
this year than those endured in 2011 as rules enforced since
April take a bigger toll on lenders than the industry predicted.  “We anticipate that loan losses won’t decline in 2012,”
Per Tornqvist, an analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  based in
 Stockholm , said in an interview. “There’s no doubt that the
provisions need to be done, and the sooner the better, in terms
of working it out of the economy.”  S&P estimates total loan losses at Danish banks swelled to
155 billion kroner ($27 billion) in the four years through 2011,
with another 30 billion kroner in writedowns yet to be taken.
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , the country’s largest lender, accounted for
almost half the industry’s bad loans, according to S&P.  Denmark’s Financial Supervisory Authority told banks in
February to comply with stricter writedown standards, a
requirement it said would have limited impact on loan losses as
it estimated most banks already followed the revised rules.
Since then,  Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK)  and  Sydbank A/S (SYDB) , the country’s
second- and third-largest listed lenders, respectively, raised
their forecasts for impairments this year, citing the new
regulatory standards.  “All of us have been quite surprised by the magnitude of
the writedowns, given what the FSA said in February,” Thomas Hovard, head of credit research at Danske Bank in Copenhagen,
said in an interview. “Most people had expected that loan
losses would come down in 2012.”  Shares Drop  Shares of Danske Bank fell as much as 2.8 percent to trade
at 89.85 kroner as of 12:14 p.m. in Copenhagen. Sydbank lost as
much as 2.3 percent and Jyske fell as much as 2.2 percent. The
losses exceeded a 1.2 percent decline in the 43-member Bloomberg
index of European banks.  The writedowns threaten to stall a recovery that had been
aided by legislation aimed at sidestepping  Denmark ’s 2010 bail-
in law. The failures of Amagerbanken A/S and Fjordbank Mors A/S
last year triggered the European Union’s first senior credit
losses within a government resolution framework, locking most of
Denmark’s 120 banks out of funding markets.  Since those insolvencies, parliament has passed legislation
to aid bank mergers in the hope of avoiding further creditor
losses. Three insolvent regional banks have used the new
framework to stay afloat. Lawmakers are also trying to create a
fund to rescue the country’s troubled farming industry. Moody’s
Investors Service said yesterday distressed agricultural
portfolios are putting pressure on Danish bank ratings.  ‘Elevated Risks’  “Elevated risks in agricultural lending are contributing
to downward pressure on the credit profiles of Danish lenders
and covered bonds,” Moody’s said, as part of its review of 114
European lenders, including eight Danish banks.  Denmark is still struggling to emerge from the fallout of
its property market collapse.  House prices  fell an annual 9
percent in February, the country’s statistics agency said last
month, and by next year real estate values will have dropped 25
percent from their peak in 2007, the government-backed Economic
Council said in November.  Given the frailty of bank balance sheets amid continued
house price declines, lenders face an uphill battle convincing
investors that Denmark won’t be the scene of further creditor
losses, according to Mads Thinggaard, senior equity analyst at
Copenhagen-based Nykredit Markets. He says tightening writedown
rules before the crisis is over is likely to hurt the industry.  “A lot is about convincing funding markets there’s not
going to be another bail-in and this won’t help,” Thinggaard
said in an interview.  Accounting Loopholes  The FSA argues insolvencies to date followed lax impairment
practices and on Feb. 6 told banks to build up bigger buffers
against property losses. The stricter standards are needed after
a series of audits found lenders were abusing accounting
loopholes to understate deteriorating books, the FSA said.  “There will be less of a gap between what the banks have
done and what we expect when we visit them,” Anders Balling, a
director at the FSA’s bank analysis division, said in an
interview. “It’s to everyone’s benefit that they know what we
want.” He reiterated the regulator’s February assumption that a
small part of Denmark’s bank industry will be affected.  “We can only say that a large number of institutions
already use this approach for the majority of their loans, so it
will have only a minor impact, if any, on these,” he said.
“For a smaller group of institutions, it will have a larger
impact.”  Danske Writedowns  Copenhagen-based Danske Bank reports its first-quarter
results tomorrow, and “there is a risk that writedowns for the
full year will be a little higher than expected,” Bjoern Schwarz, an analyst at Sydbank, said by phone. Still, the bank
“started earlier with writedowns than other banks, so it has
very large loan-loss reserves,” he said, adding that most of
Danske’s first-quarter losses will probably stem from its Irish
business.  Tornqvist said banks should take the pain as quickly as
possible to get the bad debt out of the system and aid the
recovery.  “It is very time consuming for banks to manage bad
debts,” he said. “It’s better if the banking industry can
focus on the challenge of channeling savings into the economy,
making sure their role as an intermediary is upheld.”  Damp Growth  Denmark’s economy will grow 1.2 percent this year, the
central bank said March 21. Governor Nils Bernstein said then
Denmark’s financial industry is “in broad terms solid,” adding
low  interest rates  are supporting a recovery. The bank, which
uses policy to peg the krone to the euro, lowered the benchmark
lending rate to 0.7 percent in December.  Still, stricter writedown rules mean banks will contribute
less to any  rebound , according to Hovard.  “The regulations may make it difficult for the banks to
underpin the economic recovery,” he said. “The tougher the
regulations are, the faster they have to be implemented, the
more they will put a damp on economic growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  