-- Deutsche Bank Fends Off Citigroup as Top Currency Trader
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-05-10T13:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/deutsche-bank-fends-off-surging-citigroup-as-top-currency-trader.html
Deutsche Bank AG held off  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  to keep its position as top foreign-exchange trader for an
eighth-straight year in an annual survey by  Euromoney
Institutional Investor Plc (ERM) , even as its market share slipped
below 15 percent.  Citigroup leapfrogged Barclays Plc and UBS AG to become the
second-biggest currency trader, Euromoney said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. Barclays slipped to third place and UBS to
fourth, while HSBC Holdings Plc climbed into the top five.  “It’s an arms race,” said Kevin Rodgers, head of FX spot,
e-trading and derivatives at Deutsche Bank in London. “The
foreign exchange market for all our customers is just getting
better, cheaper and faster each year. The exciting thing for us
in 2012 is that all the technology that we built in previous
years is being completely revamped. Virtually everything that
has helped us win for the last eight years is being replaced and
improved over the course of this year and early next year.”  The top five banks in the survey accounted for 55 percent
of trading. Citigroup’s market share climbed to 12.26 percent
from 8.86 percent last year, while Deutsche Bank’s slipped to
14.57 percent from 15.65 percent.  “Our goal is to be the top foreign-exchange provider in
the market place, and we are trying to get there,” said Jeff Feig, global head of Group of 10 foreign exchange at Citigroup
in London. “We are investing and growing our business. We focus
on delivering useful innovative functionality and cool
technology to our clients, and we expect to see our volumes grow
even more in the future.”  ‘Fundamentally Change’  The poll is drawn from a survey of end users in the
foreign-exchange markets and based on 15,423 responses,
representing $208.4 trillion of turnover, Euromoney said.  Currency trading  is likely to have fallen considerably in
early 2012, after reaching a record $5 trillion a day in
September last year, the  Bank for International Settlements  said
on March 12.  Deutsche Bank saw record currency trading volumes in the
first quarter of 2012, even as profit margins declined, it said
in a report April 26. The Frankfurt-based bank said it is
planning to redesign its AutobahnFX platform to give clients
greater flexibility and better pricing.  “The form competition will take, the way we interact with
clients and the services we offer, will fundamentally change in
the next two years,” said Zar Amrolia, global head of foreign
exchange at Deutsche Bank. “Anyone who isn’t prepared for this
will lose out.”  ‘Major Risk Events’  Barclays stayed in the top three after increasing its
market share to 10.95 percent from 10.76 percent last year.  “You need to be a large participant to meet your clients’
demands,” said Mike Bagguley, global head of foreign exchange
at Barclays. “Last year was a year of major risk events in the
 currency market . You had the tsunami, two  Bank of Japan (8301) 
interventions and a Swiss National Bank intervention. How you
steered through those events with your clients pretty much
defined your year.”  Deutsche Bank and Citigroup also topped the poll in the
Asia region, excluding  Japan , which surveyed 4,978 respondents.
Citigroup increased its regional market share to 17.07 percent
from 11.74 percent in the 2011 survey.  The Asia Pacific region accounted for 21.29 percent of the
global currency market trading this year, up from 20.63 percent
in 2011, Euromoney said. Trading in Western Europe slipped to
43.06 percent from 45.94 percent.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. was ranked top for Group of 10
research, Euromoney said. HSBC was number one for  emerging
markets  research, while Citi was first for technical analysis,
quantitative and flow research.  Following is a table of Euromoney’s rankings for foreign-
exchange market share (all products).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  