-- Deutsche Telekom Is Said to Discuss Deal With MetroPCS
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-05-10T11:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/deutsche-telekom-said-to-talk-to-metropcs-on-t-mobile-usa-merger.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  is discussing a
merger of its T-Mobile USA unit with  MetroPCS Communications
Inc. (PCS)  as it reviews options for the customer-losing business,
according to people familiar with the matter.  Deutsche Telekom is considering a stock-swap transaction
that would give the German company control over the combined
entity, which would be publicly listed, said two of the people,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private.
Other options include an initial public offering or an outright
sale of T-Mobile USA, the people said, adding that Deutsche
Telekom is also in talks with other companies. MetroPCS shares
jumped 14 percent in New York trading yesterday.  Europe ’s second-biggest phone company, whose $39 billion
sale of T-Mobile USA to  AT&T Inc. (T)  failed last year due to
regulatory resistance, wants to bolster the business’s ability
to gain size and customers, the people said. Following the
deal’s collapse in December, T-Mobile USA has cut jobs and
stepped up investments in faster networks as it tries to stop a
flight of contract subscribers to rivals.  “The thing they lack is size and it would be easier to be
part of something larger,” said Alexandre Iatrides, an analyst
at Oddo & Cie. in Paris who recommends investors reduce their
holdings in Bonn, Germany-based Deutsche Telekom.  Fourth Largest  T-Mobile USA lost 510,000 contract clients last quarter.
New prepaid users helped boost the total customer base to 33.4
million at the end of March. T-Mobile USA is the fourth-largest
wireless provider in the country, behind  Verizon Wireless , AT&T
and Sprint.  First-quarter earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization at the unit climbed 8 percent to $1.29 billion,
Deutsche Telekom said today.  Combining with a smaller player “isn’t really the option
they prefer, but they don’t really have a choice” after the
disposal plan failed, Iatrides said, adding that  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S)  could be a viable, alternative partner.  MetroPCS shares climbed 94 cents to $7.50 yesterday.  Leap
Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) , MetroPCS’s main rival in the pay-
as-you-go market, rose 12 percent to $5.76. The two companies
often trade in tandem, and Leap may be expected to benefit from
consolidation in the industry.  Deutsche Telekom may also need to acquire Leap to
complement its coverage in the U.S., UBS AG analyst John Hodulik
wrote in note to clients.  Deutsche Telekom shares gained as much as 4.2 percent to
8.90 euros today, the biggest intraday jump since November. They
were up 3.4 percent as of 1:16 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  Sprint Talks  Sprint discussed buying  T-Mobile USA  last year, people
familiar with the talks said at the time. It also abandoned a
plan to buy MetroPCS, people with knowledge of those discussions
said in February. Sprint is on the lookout for deals that would
help it pose a more credible threat to bigger competitors
Verizon Wireless and AT&T.  A combination of T-Mobile USA and MetroPCS wouldn’t
alleviate spectrum constraints the two companies are facing, and
the integration of their different wireless standards would be a
“logistical nightmare,” Sanford C Bernstein’s London-based
analyst  Robin Bienenstock  wrote in a note today. T-Mobile’s
network uses the GSM standard, while MetroPCS’s is based on the
code-division multiple access technology.  Deutsche Telekom Chief Executive Officer  Rene Obermann  said
during a conference call today that he won’t comment on
“rumors” regarding the company’s U.S. business.  Share Slide  MetroPCS representative Drew Crowell and Sprint’s  Bill White  also declined to comment.  MetroPCS had been the front-runner to buy assets from AT&T
and T-Mobile when the two companies sought to complete their
deal, people familiar with the matter said last year.  The current negotiations with Deutsche Telekom had been
complicated by a  24 percent decline  by MetroPCS shares this year
before yesterday, and the talks still might fail, the person
said. The stock drop, partly wiped out by yesterday’s gain, may
require the companies to adjust the ratio between their
respective contributions.  MetroPCS is also in discussions with other potential
partners, the people said.  Deutsche Telekom’s wireless U.S. business lost 1.65 million
contract customers last year, or 6.2 percent of its base of
highest-paying users. The division’s bet on devices running
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system failed to stem customer losses as
Verizon Wireless, AT&T and Sprint lured away users with  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  Beating Estimates  Verizon Wireless added 501,000 contract customers in the
first quarter, while AT&T netted 187,000. Sprint added users for
its main brand, though it lost a total of 192,000 contract users
for all its services. MetroPCS, based in Richardson,  Texas ,
reported a quarterly gain of 132,000 new customers.  Deutsche Telekom today reported earnings and revenue that
topped analysts’ estimates as profitability in the U.S. improved
and a slowdown in the European business stabilized.  In March, T-Mobile USA said it was cutting 1,900 jobs and
closing seven of its 24  call centers  to adjust costs to a
shrinking customer base. Deutsche Telekom has said it is looking
at other strategic options, including a sale of T-Mobile’s U.S.
tower network.  ‘Non-supportive Stance’  AT&T and Deutsche Telekom both agreed to abandon the T-
Mobile USA deal, which would have created the largest U.S.
mobile-phone operator. Deutsche Telekom cited unwillingness by
the U.S.  Justice Department  and the Federal Communications
Commission to change their “non-supportive stance” even after
the companies proposed changes to the size and structure of the
transaction. The Justice Department had sued to block the deal.  U.S. regulatory agencies likely would approve a combination
of T-Mobile and MetroPCS, said Jeffrey Silva, a Washington-based
analyst with Medley Global Advisors LLC.  “Such a transaction is probably the precisely the kind of
merger the Obama administration would welcome as a limited
counterbalance to wireless juggernauts Verizon and AT&T,” Silva
said in an e-mail.  When the Justice Department sued to block AT&T from buying
T-Mobile last year, it said in a complaint that the smaller
company is an “aggressive competitor” that helps constrain
prices across the wireless marketplace.  Verizon Wireless and AT&T serve about 60 percent of U.S.
wireless subscribers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
T-Mobile accounts for 9.5 percent, and MetroPCS has 2.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at   jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  