-- Dewey Co-Chairman Shutran to Join O’Melveny & Myers
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-05-09T21:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/dewey-co-chairman-shutran-to-join-o-melveny-myers.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP co-chairmen
 Jeffrey Kessler  and Richard Shutran left to join rival law
firms, leaving just two members of Dewey’s new chairman’s office
in place.  Kessler, head of litigation, will start next week at
Winston & Strawn LLP, said the firm’s chairman, Dan Webb.
Winston & Strawn has hired 22 litigation partners and one energy
partner from Dewey, the Chicago-based firm said in a press
release. Shutran, head of Dewey’s corporate department, will
join O’Melveny & Myers LLP with four other Dewey partners, that
firm said in a statement today.  Webb, who was the  New York  Stock Exchange’s lawyer for its
pay case against ex-Chairman  Richard Grasso , called Kessler
after Dewey told partners in an April 30 memo they were free to
explore other job opportunities, he said. Kessler’s sports
litigation group is the best in the U.S. and the hirings will
add to Winston & Strawn’s group dealing with antitrust and
securities litigation, he said in a phone interview today.  “It’s a big transaction,” Webb said. The Dewey lawyers
will mostly be based in New York, where Winston & Strawn wants
more litigators, with some joining in Chicago, Washington and
 Los Angeles , he said.  “Winston offers a platform that provides our group a
strong foundation for serving our clients at the highest
levels,” Kessler said in the press release.  Amid mounting defections in March, New York-based Dewey
said it was creating a new chairman’s office with five co-equal
members from its most profitable groups. They included  Martin Bienenstock , who runs the firm’s restructuring group; Shutran,
Kessler; and Charles Landgraf, who runs the Washington office
and the legislative and public policy group.  Dewey ousted the fifth member of the chairman’s office,
 Steven Davis , formerly sole chairman, after Manhattan District
Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. began a probe into possible wrongdoing
at the firm, Dewey told partners in an April 29 memo obtained by
Bloomberg.  Michael Sitrick , a spokesman for Dewey, didn’t return a
call seeking comment on the departures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  