-- Dole Food Breakup Seen Bearing Fruit With 58% Return
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2012-05-09T20:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/dole-food-breakup-seen-bearing-fruit-with-58-return.html
Dole Food Co. (DOLE) , which has evolved from
a Hawaiian pineapple purveyor into the world’s largest producer
of fresh fruit and vegetables, would now stand to reap almost 60
percent for shareholders by splitting itself up.  The  Westlake Village , California-based company last week
said it was considering options including a breakup after its
shares dropped by a third in the past year, the second-worst
performance among North American food makers with market values
larger than $500 million. Dole is now trading at a lower
valuation relative to sales than 97 percent of the industry,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dole’s shares have slumped as  earnings  swings at the
company’s produce operations overshadowed higher profit margins
from packaged foods such as fruit cups and popsicles. The fresh
fruit, vegetable and packaged foods businesses could be worth a
combined $15 a share in a breakup, 58 percent more than
yesterday’s  closing price , said Paradigm Capital Management Inc.
CreditSights Inc. says proceeds from a possible spinoff could be
used to help pay down the company’s $1.69 billion in  debt , which
is twice the current market value.  “On a sum-of-the-parts basis, the company seems to be
pretty significantly undervalued,” Jason Ronovech, an  Albany ,
New York-based money manager for Paradigm Capital, which
oversees about $2 billion including Dole shares, said in a
telephone interview. “We’ve seen the packaged foods business
the past couple of years put up pretty consistent results.”  Marty Ordman, a spokesman for Dole, said he couldn’t
provide any updates on the company’s review and referred instead
to Chief Executive Officer David DeLorenzo’s comments on the
company’s May 3 earnings conference call.  Seeking Value  “We believe that Dole’s share price does not reflect the
inherent value of our packaged foods business,” DeLorenzo said
on the call. “In order to unlock this value, we have initiated
a review of strategic alternatives, seeking to enhance
 shareholder value .”  Dole is considering separating or spinning off one or more
of its businesses, among other options, DeLorenzo said. The
company will be evaluating options for the packaged foods
business in particular, he said.  Dole’s roots  go back to about 1851, when Castle & Cooke
Inc. was formed by missionaries in Hawaii. The company later
gained control of the Hawaiian Pineapple Co., the firm founded
by James Dole that made pineapples almost synonymous with
Hawaii, and introduced the Dole brand in 1933.  Billionaire Chairman David Murdock took Dole private in
2003 after rescuing the food producer from bankruptcy about a
decade earlier. He brought Dole public again in 2009 at $12.50 a
share and retains a 58 percent stake in the company, according
to a May 3 regulatory filing.  Stock Slump  Shares of Dole, which now sells everything from organic
bananas to fruit bars and bags of salad,  dropped  24 percent
since the initial public offering through yesterday amid
fluctuations in earnings at the company’s fresh fruit and
vegetable operations.  Operating profit from fresh fruit, Dole’s biggest business,
was down 43 percent last year from 2009, according to the
company’s annual  regulatory filing . In the first quarter, Dole
said results were hampered by “extraordinarily low prices” in
all major commodity vegetables.  “They’ve admittedly had some difficult quarters,” Heather Jones, an analyst for BB&T Capital Markets in Richmond,
 Virginia , said in a telephone interview. “The vast majority of
those have been attributable to either their fresh vegetables or
fresh fruit business, while the packaged food business has been
growing nicely. It’s pretty stable.”  The company last year earned about 3 cents before interest
and taxes for every dollar of fresh fruit and vegetable sales.
Margins in the packaged food business were more than twice that.  Underperformer  At yesterday’s closing price of $9.50, Dole was valued at
0.12 times its reported sales, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the second-lowest among food makers in  North
America  with more than $500 million in market value. The group
trades at an average of 0.98 times.  Including net debt, Dole was valued at $2.5 billion as of
yesterday, which is 6.9 times analysts’  2012 estimates  for
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
That’s cheaper than 76 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It was valued at 0.97 times shareholder
equity, or less than half the industry median, the data show.  “The market is putting a multiple on the whole company
similar to other commodity types of businesses that have
challenges short term,” said Paradigm Capital’s Ronovech.
“That’s why the overall company’s valuation is well below
what’s probably its intrinsic value.”  Dole rose 5.3 percent today to $10 in  New York , the third-
biggest gainer among stocks that make up the Russell 2000
Consumer Staples Index.  Higher Value  Separating Dole’s packaged foods, fresh fruit and vegetable
businesses could yield a combined $12 to $16 a share, based on
earnings multiples of  comparable companies , according to BB&T’s
Jones.  The company’s packaged foods unit, which boosted sales more
than any other division since 2009, could be worth almost $1.1
billion, including net debt, Jones said. The fresh fruit
business could be valued at $1.4 billion, and the vegetable
operations at almost $280 million, she said.  “The whole business is trading cheaper than their peers,
so it’s an example where one and one is probably going to equal
three,” Jones said.  Jonathan Feeney, an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
in Philadelphia, estimates Dole could be worth more than $14 a
share using a sum-of-the-parts analysis.  Debt Burden  Carla Norfleet Taylor, a credit analyst for  Fitch Ratings ,
said that unless Dole pays down a sufficient amount of debt, a
spinoff of the packaged foods unit will lead to an increased
burden for the remaining entity. Taylor, who’s based in  Chicago ,
put Dole’s debt under review for a possible ratings cut
depending on the strategic steps the company takes.  Dole’s $1.6 billion in net debt is 4.4 times its 2011
Ebitda, a higher  leverage ratio  than 95 percent of North
American food manufacturers with more than $500 million in
market value, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Their business risk would increase” if Dole were to
lose the  cash flow  from the packed foods division, Taylor said
in a telephone interview. “Debt reduction would be needed to
improve credit statistics.”  Dole would likely use the proceeds from listing the
packaged foods business as a separate publicly traded stock to
help pay down some of its  borrowings , according to Wen Li, an
analyst at CreditSights in New York.  Lots of Land  The transaction would also allow Dole to move some of its
 debt  to the new company’s balance sheet so that the more
volatile fruits and vegetables business won’t be overburdened,
said BB&T Capital’s Jones.  Another way Dole can reduce debt is to sell some of its
land in  Hawaii , which may be worth as much as $400 million,
Carla Casella, a credit analyst for JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote
in a May 4 note. In a breakup, Dole could be valued at as much
as $19.70 a share, including its property, she wrote.  “They have a lot of land that isn’t being used for
anything productive right now,” Paradigm Capital’s Ronovech
said. “When you factor that in as well into a sum of the parts,
you can make a case for an even higher valuation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 