-- Dutch With Food Aid Shows New Economic Reality Engulfing Europe
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s ,   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-05-09T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/dutch-with-food-aid-shows-new-economic-reality-engulfing-europe.html
It’s just after lunchtime on a
drizzly day in the Amsterdam suburb of Bos en Lommer and the
line of people waiting to fill their bags with free rice, juice,
potatoes and bread is lengthening.  The market is one of 135 food banks in the Netherlands
bailing out people trying to survive on less than 180 euros
($234) a month, the threshold to qualify for the aid. Organizers
say demand for the service rose 20 percent in the first quarter.  “I’m alone, so I will manage, but what’s happening to
families, with kids and everything?” Willem Lammers, 52, who
lost his job as a packager six months ago and has 4,000 euros of
debt, said as he made his ninth visit to the bank on April 20.
“I don’t know how they do it.”  While Athens emerged as the center of  Europe ’s debt crisis,
cities across the continent are trying to cope with the biggest
decline in prosperity since World War II. A report last week
showed that euro-area  unemployment  rose to the highest in more
than 15 years in April and the region’s economy is contracting
for the second time in three years.  Voters in France elected Francois Hollande as president May
6 after he pledged to soften austerity measures backed by his
predecessor  Nicolas Sarkozy , while Greece was thrown into
another stage of turmoil after elections split parliament
between pro- and anti-bailout parties with no clear winner.  “Before people didn’t see any questions and now they don’t
see any answers,” said  Austin Hughes , an economist at KBC Bank
Ireland in Dublin. “There had been an expectation that incomes,
employment prospects and asset prices would improve forever.
That certainty is now gone.”  Lyon to Valencia  Europeans everywhere are changing jobs, homes and habits to
accommodate lower pay, shifting markets and slowing economies.  The malaise is affecting residents in the capital of AAA
rated Netherlands, whose government quit last month amid
opposition to budget cuts, as well as those in Lyon, France’s
hub for small companies, Dublin, where the immensity of the euro
region’s banking losses first surfaced in 2008, and Valencia,
with the most unpaid bills of Spain’s semi-autonomous states.  “We have to condition ourselves to get used to something
that for now we are calling a crisis and that soon will become
normal,” said Ramon Congost Valles, 62, managing director of
Aidico, Valencia’s construction technology institute.  One of the two music schools where Francisco Perez, a 36-
year-old oboe teacher in Almussafes in the suburbs of Valencia,
works cut his monthly pay by about 150 euros after the 
government reduced subsidies by about 50 percent. He said he 
now earns 850 euros a month.  Music Teacher  “It seems one should consider oneself fortunate to even
have a job,” Perez said.  Valencia, whose debt is rated junk by  Standard & Poor’s  and
Moody’s Investors Service, has applied for central  government
aid  because of 4.2 billion euros of unpaid bills to about 10,000
suppliers. The city, once at the heart of  Spain ’s real-estate
boom, is cutting social benefits, investments and public jobs
while raising taxes and the price of education and health care.  Palmira Castellano, 50, lives in the Valencia suburb of El
Perrello with her 23-year-old disabled daughter. She said she is
looking for work after her brother-in-law  lost his job  in the
 construction industry  and can no longer provide financial
assistance. Her parents also don’t have enough left from their
monthly pension of 1,200 euros to help out and she can’t cope on
the 500 euro stipend that her daughter gets from the government.  ‘Very Ugly’  “The situation is really very ugly,” Castellano said.
“My sister is too ill to work. Her husband is unemployed and
they have a mortgage to pay, and my parents can’t support all of
us on one pension.”  The 50 biggest publicly traded companies in the euro region
lost about 1 trillion euros of stock market value in the past
five years, based on the performance of the Euro Stoxx 50 Price
Index. European  home prices  have dropped as much as 33 percent
from their peak levels in 2007, according to the  European
Housing Review 2012  published in February by the London-based
 Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors.  A gauge for Western European sovereign debt risk also has
risen. The price of the  Markit iTraxx SovX  Western Europe index
for five-year credit-default swaps was 285 basis points
yesterday, up from less than 50 in October 2009 when Greece
began to disclose the true level of its debt.  “People felt they were cruising along the economic highway
headed straight towards greater prosperity,” said Hughes at
KBC, the Brussels-based bank that was bailed out by the Belgian
and Flemish governments starting in October 2008. “Now all the
traffic seems to be coming against them and all they can hope
for is to dodge the wreckage.”  Fleeing Ireland  In Ireland, emigration rose to the highest since the 19th
century in the 12 months ended April 2011, with about 76,400
people leaving the country during the period, according to the
latest data from the  Central Statistics Office .  Spain, which attracted more immigrants in 2006 than any
country in the euro region, is now seeing an outflow. A net
50,090 people left last year, the nation’s statistics office
reported.  Greek and Spanish youths, faced with 50 percent
unemployment, are moving north and west. Silvia Alvarez Ferri,
31, couldn’t find a job in Spain, and now works as an architect
in Hamburg, the second-largest city in  Germany , whose economy
holds the euro together.  “After a year looking for a job in Spain, with no
interviews or possibilities, I decided to look in Germany,”
Alvarez Ferri said over coffee by Hamburg’s Alster lake in the
center of the port city. “The majority of my architecture
friends who stayed in Spain are unemployed, and I would most
likely be too if hadn’t moved.”  German Oasis  The German economy grew at an annual rate of 2 percent in
the final quarter of 2011, albeit less than half the pace of the
first three months of the year. With the  jobless rate  staying at
a two-decade low of 6.8 percent in April, employers from Berlin
to Munich are looking abroad for workers, including engineers,
doctors and nurses that they can’t find locally.  The number of people living in Germany from European Union
countries with non-German citizenship rose 6.4 percent to 2.6
million in 2011 from a year earlier, according to Germany’s
 Destatis  statistics agency. The number of Spanish citizens
living in Germany climbed 4.5 percent, it said.  “There is a lack of skilled and highly qualified workers
in Germany today,” said Beate Raabe, a spokeswoman for
Germany’s employment agency. “We are very active in Spain,
Portugal and  Greece  these days. It may create a win-win
situation, where someone unemployed in southern Europe gets a
job in Germany.”  Dublin Warehouse  Elsewhere, entrepreneurs are taking advantage of the
crisis. Clues to how Ireland and Europe may recover lies
closeted in a warehouse in central Dublin. The building, located
between  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s European headquarters,
was earmarked for redevelopment before Ireland’s decade-long
real estate bubble burst, precipitating the nation’s economic
decline.  The warehouse is now the home of Startupbootcamp Dublin,
which seeks to help new businesses get off the ground. The group
provides mentoring, 12,000 euros for young technology companies
and six months of  office space . On May 16, about 100 investors
will hear pitches from 10 start-ups involved in the project.  “The crash is creating opportunities,” said Eoghan Jennings, a former chief financial officer of Xing AG, the
German networking company, who is now running Bootcamp Dublin.  Lyon Stores  In Lyon,  France ’s third-largest city, one such start-up in
the city of 475,000 people has benefited as the economy
deteriorated.  Chronostock , founded in 2007, sells inventory
bought from struggling retailers.  The company, which takes space left vacant when others go
bankrupt, expects to double sales this year to 20 million euros,
co-founder Bruno Poncet said in an interview. Chronostock opened
35 stores in 2011 and has plans for another 60 in 2012.  “We noticed stores were doing really well only in the
first phase following their opening and in the few weeks before
they went out of business,” said Poncet. “Our clients don’t
come in because they want a certain brand, they don’t care if
they get a blue or red kettle. People come into our stores
because we bring discounts to their neighborhood.”  Lyon is thriving relative to other parts of France and
Europe, with a new tram and metro extension, as well as the
region’s biggest shopping mall, the Confluence, which opened on
April 4. The  unemployment rate  for the Rhone-Alpes region that
includes Lyon was 8.4 percent in the fourth quarter, compared
with France’s national average of 9.8 percent, according to data
from Insee, the institute for statistics.  Sarkozy’s Loss  “Large companies and local governments are working with
small labs and sharing ideas on how to face the crisis,” said
 Christine di Domenico , an economics professor at the EMLyon
business school. “Small companies aren’t just left to figure
things out on their own.”  Scratch beneath the surface and the effects of the debt
crisis and France’s efforts to deal with it show through. The
end of Sarkozy’s presidency followed the ouster of leaders in
Ireland, Portugal, Greece,  Italy , Spain, Slovenia and Slovakia
during the past 15 months.  The change in the political landscape is occurring as
governments take unpopular steps to lower budget deficits by at
least 450 billion euros, according to figures compiled from
finance ministries across the 27-member European Union.  Crisis Coming  The crisis is now at the door of nations previously
considered invulnerable such as the Netherlands. Dutch Prime
Minister  Mark Rutte  submitted his resignation last month, after
the anti-immigration  Freedom Party  withdrew support for spending
cuts and tax increases totaling about 14 billion euros.  “We knew the crisis was coming,” said Sweder van
Wijnbergen,  professor of economics  at the University of
Amsterdam. “We know we’re not like Spain or Italy, but we’re
not like Germany either. It will take a while before we get out
of this and that will depend on Germany.”  Back in Amsterdam’s western suburb, the food bank is
getting more popular. In the first quarter, households using
food banks in the city jumped to 1,350. About 3,000 may use the
safety net by the end of the year, said Piet van Diepen, a food
bank board member.  “The lines will get bigger and bigger as more people lose
their jobs and have trouble paying their rent or mortgage,” Van
Diepen said.  In the Netherlands, more than 23,000 people get aid from
the food bank, he said. The numbers also are increasing in
places such as Britain, where figures showed this month that the
economy has slipped back into recession amid the biggest budget
cuts of any of the 10 largest EU countries.  Melanie van Egeren, 30, said she expects to tap the food
bank for another three months, as she seeks to survive on 800
euros a month with an eight-year-old son.  “It’s tough,” the Amsterdam resident said last month.
“But one learns to get by with less.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net 
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  