-- Health Law Repeal to Cost Seniors $20,000, Fidelity Says
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-05-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/health-law-repeal-to-cost-seniors-20-000-fidelity-says.html
Retirees may pay about $20,000 more
for medical care if the U.S.  Supreme Court  overturns the 2010
health care overhaul,  Fidelity Investments  said.  A 65-year-old couple retiring this year will spend $240,000
out-of-pocket for care before their deaths, after accounting for
Medicare coverage, Fidelity said in an annual estimate released
today. That’s an increase of $10,000 from last year and includes
premiums and co-payments under Medicare and supplementary
coverage called Medigap, the Boston-based mutual-fund manager
said.  Passage of the health law saved money for seniors who among
other benefits gained additional coverage for  prescription
drugs , said Sunit Patel, senior vice president for Fidelity
Benefits Consulting, who led the project. The cost of losing
those benefits, should the court overturn the law, would be
about $20,000, Patel said in an interview.  “Seniors would have a much greater financial burden,”
said  Ron Pollack , executive director of Families USA, a health
advocacy group in Washington that supports the law. “They would
not receive preventive care services for free, and seniors with
chronic health conditions would have a much larger cost for
purchasing prescription drugs.”  The Supreme Court is weighing whether the law’s requirement
that most Americans have health insurance is constitutional, and
if not, how much of the law to overturn. Former Massachusetts
Governor  Mitt Romney , who is poised to be the Republican nominee
for president in November’s election,  has said  he would repeal
the entire law “as quickly as possible” should he take office.  ‘Doughnut Hole’  The court may preserve the drug benefit for seniors, which
closes a gap in Medicare’s coverage for prescription medicines
known as the “doughnut hole.” About 78 percent of people
polled by the  Kaiser Family Foundation  in April said they held a
favorable view of that provision. Medicare is the U.S. health
program for the elderly and disabled.  “There could be a scenario where that’s one of the few
pieces of reform that stick,” Patel said.  A spokeswoman for Romney,  Gail Gitcho , didn’t respond to an
e-mail seeking comment on the report.  Fidelity estimated that people retiring at age 65 in 2011
faced $230,000 in out-of-pocket health costs. The amount went up
about 4.3 percent this year because of rising health care costs,
according to the report. The rate of growth is lower than the
historical average of 6 percent, prior to passage of the health
law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  