-- EasyJet Rises to Two-Year High After Cutting Loss: London Mover
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-05-09T07:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/easyjet-rises-to-two-year-high-after-cutting-loss-london-mover.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest
discount airline, rose to the highest in two years after saying
a gain in business bookings helped narrow the first-half loss.  The pretax loss in the six months through March 31 was 112
million pounds ($181 million) versus a loss of 153 million
pounds a year earlier, Luton, England-based EasyJet said today.
The average estimate of seven analysts was for a loss of 114
million pounds.  EasyJet Chief Executive Officer Carolyn McCall has dropped
the carrier’s no-frills approach in favor of a model that allows
passengers to pay for extras such as priority boarding and
flexible tickets. The company is also testing allocated seating
and has increased frequencies between key cities as it seeks to
grab a bigger share of the corporate travel market.  “They are doing very well,” said  Gert Zonneveld , a
Panmure Gordon analyst in London who recommends buying the
stock. “Their value proposition looks very strong and there is
no reason why they should not be able to strengthen their market
position.”  EasyJet stock  gained as much as 4.3 percent to 531 pence,
the highest since April 26, 2010, and was up 2.4percent as of
8:26 a.m. in London trading. The stock has climbed 32 percent
this year, making it the best performer in the seven-member
Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index.  First-half  revenue  increased 16 percent to 1.47 billion
pounds as the number of passengers carried grew by 5.4 percent
to 25.2 million. EasyJet’s fuel costs rose 26 percent to 483
million pounds in the period as the price of oil climbed. The
carrier, which pays for fuel in dollars, estimates that current
exchange rates and fuel prices will add 145 million pounds to
its costs in the second-half of its financial year.  London Olympics  McCall said the  London  Olympics, starting in July, were
unlikely to boost revenue because the carrier’s planes will
already be flying full during the peak summer months. If
anything, the games may prove disruptive, McCall said, as an
influx of visitors traveling to the U.K has the potential to
increase congestion in U.K. airspace.  “We believe it will be revenue neutral because it’s in our
busiest single time,” McCall said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. “But it could be operationally more
difficult for us, and all airlines in the U.K.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  