-- Heathrow Border Controls Show Failings, U.K. Inspector Finds
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2012-05-09T23:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/heathrow-border-controls-show-failings-u-k-inspector-finds.html
An independent review of border
controls at  London ’s Heathrow airport found failings of planning
and organization, adding to recent criticisms of the speed and
efficiency of immigration checks at Europe’s largest hub.  A review of Heathrow’s Terminal 3, the second-largest, from
August to November last year by the government-appointed
 independent chief inspector of borders , John Vine, concluded
that resources weren’t effectively matched to demand and too
many organizational changes were taking place. His report was
published in London today.  “A new shift-working system and the amalgamation of
immigration and customs roles had suffered from a lack of
effective planning,” Vine said in an e-mailed statement. “I
remain concerned that this lack of planning has affected the
agency’s ability to maintain an effective and efficient border
control.”  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  Chief
Executive Officer Willie Walsh, whose company operates flights
by British Airways, BMI and Iberia out of Heathrow, said this
month there’s a crisis at that airport, with passengers entering
the U.K. having to wait as long as 2 1/2 hours. Heathrow
operator BAA said last month that waiting times at peak periods
were unacceptable. Heathrow will be the main entry point for
those arriving for this summer’s  Olympic Games .  Immigration Minister Damian Green responded to Vine’s
report by saying that action had already been taken to deal with
the shortcomings.  “We now have more staff at the border during peak times,
greater flexibility to man immigration and customs controls,
clearer guidance for staff on when vital checks are required and
a national training program,” Green said in an e-mailed
statement.  Yvette Cooper , the opposition  Labour Party ’s home-affairs
spokeswoman, described Vine’s review as “an extremely damning
report on government mismanagement of our border security.” She
blamed Home Secretary Theresa May in an e-mailed statement for
reductions in staff numbers as part of the government’s program
of spending cuts to narrow the  budget deficit .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  