-- Ecoagro Plans $204 Million Debt Securities for Brazil Sugar Cane
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-05-09T15:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/ecoagro-plans-204-million-debt-securities-for-brazil-sugar-cane.html
Ecoagro Securitizadora do Agronegocio ,
a Brazilian company that arranges debt securities for farmers,
may provide 400 million reais ($204 million) to sugar-cane
growers next year as a shortage of the crop pushes up prices.  Interest rates  on the securities may be as low as 12
percent and the sum will have to be paid back after five
harvests, Director Moacir Ferreira Teixeira said today in a
telephone interview.  Brazil  is suffering a cane shortage after mills and farmers
replaced fewer crops following the 2008 financial crisis, while
demand for ethanol, which uses the cane as feedstock, is rising.
Cane stalks, which are cut near the base at harvests and left to
regrow, need to be replaced every five years to maintain yield.  “There’s a major lack of raw material here” and this
harvest may be worse than last, Teixeira said. “These
securities appeal to both farmers and investors.”  Farmers, who have had difficulty getting cheap agricultural
credit from the government, will use the funds to prepare their
soil in August 2013 and plant cane in January 2014, he said.  Ecoagro, which finds investors and conducts due diligence
on the farmers to gauge their credit risk, will arrange 40
million reais of securities for cane-growers in the states of
 Sao Paulo  and Goais this year as part of a pilot project,
Teixeira said. “This is the first time we’ll be offering
directly to farmers” who don’t process the cane, he said.  Ecoagro, based in Sao Paulo, has issued 500 million reais
of securities since 2009 to companies that plant crops including
soybean and cotton. About 150 million reais of that went to
owners of sugar-cane processing factories including ETH
Bioenergia SA, a unit of  Salvador , Brazil-based builder
Odebrecht SA, Teixeira said.  Mills in Sao Paulo state were selling sugar cane at 60.69
reais a metric ton in April, almost double the 30.95-real price
in April 2008, industry group Uniao dos Produtores de Bioenergia
said on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  