-- Ecuador Banks’ $1 Billion Fire Sale Cuts Assets’ Value
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-05-24T18:15:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/ecuador-banks-1-billion-fire-sale-cuts-assets-value.html
(Corrects location of surge in finance-company mergers in
10th paragraph of story originally published May 9.)  Ecuador ’s push for banks to sell non-
core businesses is creating a $1 billion asset glut as the
nation’s biggest financial firms struggle to find buyers before
a July deadline.  Banco de la Produccion SA , the country’s third-largest
lender with a market value of $185 million, is trying to shed
insurance and brokerage assets and will shut its investment
business, Chief Executive Officer Abelardo Pachano said.  Banco
del Pichincha CA (PCD) , the country’s largest publicly-traded bank
valued at $695 million, must sell or close its insurance,
brokerage and investment units.  Ecuador’s biggest banks are trading at a discount of more
than 50 percent to peers in Colombia and Peru in part because of
the drive begun last year by President  Rafael Correa , an ally of
 Venezuela ’s  Hugo Chavez , to ban banks from operating or holding
stakes in other companies. Now, lenders are watching the value
of their units erode as rivals vie to complete the sales by the
government’s July 12 deadline.  “This pressing time frame has caused damage in the value”
of the units, Pachano said in an April 17 interview at his
offices in  Quito . “It’s a forced sale under conditions that are
truly contrary to the interests of the financial system.”  Shares of Ecuador’s biggest banks traded at an average 4.99
times trailing 12-month profits at the end of last year,
according to the most recent data from the Quito stock exchange.
The ratio is less than half the current valuation of 15.56 times
earnings for the three biggest lenders in  Colombia  and 12.76 for
Peruvian peers, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Share Drop  Produbanco has fallen 11 percent to $1.25 since May 6,
2011, the day before Ecuador approved a constitutional
referendum banning financial institutions, their owners, and
investors with stakes of 6 percent or more from owning companies
or stock outside the banking industry. Correa said last year the
new rules would prevent unfair lending practices that favor
affiliated companies at the expense of rivals.  Banco de Guayaquil SA , Ecuador’s second-biggest bank with a
market capitalization of $422 million, is down 31 percent in the
same period to $1.68, while Pichincha, which gets about 22
percent of its revenue from outside Ecuador, has climbed 16
percent $1.65.  Ecuador’s stock markets are less liquid than bourses in
neighboring countries. In April, 35,126 shares of Pichincha
changed hands, compared with 8.48 million shares of Colombia’s
biggest lender, Bogota-based  Bancolombia SA (PFBCOLO) , data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Andean M&A  Banco de Guayaquil , based in Guayaquil on Ecuador’s Pacific
coast, said last month it was the only lender to have completed
the required sales.  Ace Ltd. (ACE) , a Switzerland-based insurer,
bought the bank’s insurance unit for $55 million in December.
The lender sold a brokerage business to employees for $1 million
last month and its funds administrator for $2.75 million.  The forced sales in Ecuador come amid a surge in
acquisitions of the Andean region’s finance companies, sparked
by economic growth topping 6.1 percent in Colombia and 7.2
percent in Peru as well as the integration of stock markets in
Bogota, Lima and Santiago. Acquisitions of Andean region
financial firms worth a record $7.56 billion were announced last
year, five times the previous year’s total, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The new rule in Ecuador creates an opportunity for
investors to pick up the units or even entire banks cheaply,
Walter Spurrier, the director of Guayaquil-based economic
researcher Grupo Spurrier, said in an interview April 25.  ‘Low Cost’  “If I were a Colombian or Peruvian insurance company, for
example, I’d be looking at what to buy in Ecuador because I can
enter the market at a relatively low cost,” said Spurrier, who
has covered the country as an analyst since 1970 and used book
prices to estimate that $1 billion of assets are up for sale.  For potential buyers, the sales may be too good to pass up,
said Andres Cordovez, chief executive officer of  Seguros
Equinoccial SA , Ecuador’s fourth-biggest insurance company.
Quito-based Equinoccial is in talks with lenders selling
insurance units, he said, declining to identify the banks.  “While we don’t agree with the law, we can’t let this go
unnoticed,” Cordovez said in an April 25 telephone interview.  Pedro Solines, the head of Ecuador’s banking and insurance
regulator known as the SBS, didn’t respond to interview requests
made by telephone and e-mail. Economic Policy Minister Jeannette Sanchez, who also oversees the SBS, didn’t reply to voice
messages seeking comment, nor did the ministry’s press office.  Reinforcing Divide  Correa’s economic policies, favoring state intervention in
the economy, may limit demand for Ecuador’s financial
institutions said Vicente Albornoz, head economist of the Cordes
research institute in Quito. Correa canceled oil contracts with
Rio de Janeiro-based  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  and defaulted on
$3.2 billion of government debt in 2008 and 2009.  “There’s little interest abroad in Ecuador’s banks,”
Albornoz said in a May 3 interview. The government’s policies
“are chasing off everyone.”  Ecuadorean government debt is  South America ’s third-
riskiest after  Argentina  and Venezuela, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBIG index, which measures the extra yield
investors demand to own dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries.  Bolivian President  Evo Morales ’s seizure of the country’s
main electricity company on May 1, two weeks after Argentina
took over its biggest oil producer, is reinforcing a divide
between Latin American leaders that support private investment
and those pursuing more government intervention in their
economies.  Trading Volumes  Venezuela, Argentina,  Bolivia  and Ecuador have taken over
energy, cement, airline, pension and mining companies in the
past five years while governments in  Chile , Colombia,  Brazil  and
 Peru  have sought to draw investment to bolster growth.  Ecuador’s rule change may also cut trading volumes in the
country’s securities exchanges as market makers such as
Pichincha sell their brokerages and clients withdraw money from
banks’ investment funds to comply with the law, said Ulises
Alvear, the president of the nation’s  Brokerage House
Association . The total amount managed by funds affected by the
law, including trusts, dropped 25 percent to $878 million in the
10 months following the law’s approval, the most recent data
from the SBS and Ecuador’s Superintendent of Companies show.  “This is a year of uncertainty,” Alvear, who is also
chief executive officer of Quito-based MetroValores Casa de
Valores SA, said in an April 13 interview. “It’s hard to sign a
contract with someone when you don’t know if they’ll be around
in six months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  