-- Hedge Funder Charity Gets $1 Million Boost From NYC Chefs
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-05-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/hedge-funder-charity-gets-1-million-boost-from-nyc-chefs.html
To mark the R Baby Foundation’s fifth
anniversary, founder Andrew Rabinowitz turned to  New York ’s
culinary stars.  Aureole executive chef Marcus Gleadow-Ware agreed to help
with the proposed food tasting, as did Gramercy Tavern’s Michael
Anthony, who was selected this week by the James Beard
Foundation as best New York City chef. Other executive chefs
joining the event are Chris Shea of Fishtail by  David Burke  and
Jeremy Bearman of Rouge Tomate.  “I thought the model of a food tasting would be unique for
us,” Rabinowitz said in a phone interview. “It will be like a
high-end cocktail party.”  A partner and the chief operating officer of hedge fund
Marathon Asset Management LP, Rabinowitz, 41, created R Baby in
2006 after his daughter, Rebecca, was misdiagnosed and died
eight days after birth at a New Jersey hospital.  Tonight's R Baby Foundation Five Star Food and Wine Gala at
New York’s Plaza Hotel has sold all of its 1,000 tickets, priced
at $500 and up. The charity has raised about $1.1 million, which
includes donations from supporters who aren’t attending the
event, Rabinowitz said.  “I’m really humbled by the response we’ve gotten,” he
said.  Since its launch, R Baby has raised about $5 million to
improve the standard of care for pediatric emergency wards. Its
past grantees include  University of Maryland Children’s
Hospital ,  Morgan Stanley Children’s Hospital  of New York-
Presbyterian and Children’s Memorial Hospital in  Chicago .  Kennedy of Marwood  While patrons sample the chefs’ dishes and wines selected
by Per Se sommelier Anani Lawson, Edward Kennedy Jr., son of the
late U.S. Senator Edward M. Kennedy, will give the keynote
speech. The younger Kennedy is president of Marwood Group LLC, a
private-equity firm in New York.  Marathon’s other co-founders, Chief Executive Officer  Bruce
Richards  and Chief Investment Officer Louis Hanover, will
receive the foundation’s leadership award. Charles Clarvit,
former co-head of BlackRock Alternative Advisors, will introduce
them.  Rabinowitz said the event is special for him because it’s
connected with his passion for food. His father used to run a
restaurant in  Manhattan ’s East Village in the 1960s before he
became a school teacher. As an adult, Rabinowitz took several
cooking classes at New York’s  Institute of Culinary Education .  “My wife tells me I’m very good,” he said. “I don’t
follow recipes. I started becoming friendly with chefs, and they
would show me what they’re doing, and one thing led to
another.”  Simulation Training  Rabinowitz said he hopes the money raised eventually will
transform the way infants are cared for in hospitals. One of his
goals is to encourage the adoption of a simulation training
program for doctors handling newborns, which R Baby funded at
the Yale School of Medicine. More than 40 hospitals use the
program today, he said.  “The pain of the loss of my child never goes away,” said
Rabinowitz, the father of 3 sons. “I am much more neurotic
about my children. You become much more protective of them.”  (Waiting-list information for tonight's R Baby Foundation’s
Five Star Food and Wine Gala: +1-646-278-6735 or
 darren@poweredbyprofessionals.com ).  Today’s Muse highlights include: Jorg von Uthmann on  Paris
art , Ryan Sutton on  food .  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at
   pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Manuela
Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 