-- Edwards Speechwriter Advised Rip ‘Band-Aid’ Off on Affair
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J o h n   P e r a g i n e
-- 2012-05-09T00:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/edwards-speechwriter-advised-rip-band-aid-off-on-affair.html
John Edwards , the former presidential
candidate accused of campaign-finance crimes related to an
extramarital affair that produced a child, told his chief
speechwriter he thought the scandal would “go away,” she said.  Wendy Button, 43, who wrote for Edwards beginning with his
2004 presidential campaign, also testified at his trial today
that while he said he had some problems, he told her that his
daughter, born in 2008, “was not a mistake.”  As news of his affair leaked out, Button told him in August
2008, “If the story is not true, you need to start fighting
it” and if it’s true, “you need to rip the Band-Aid off,” she
said today.  Edwards told Button, “‘This issue is too hot. We need to
wait awhile and it will go away,’” she said in federal court in
Greensboro,  North Carolina . Edwards, a former Democratic U.S.
senator for that state, dropped out of the 2008 presidential
race in January of that year.  Rielle Hunter  He’s accused of illegally using almost $1 million in
contributions from benefactors to hide his affair with  Rielle Hunter , an unemployed filmmaker. He faces as long as five years
in prison for each of the six counts against him if convicted.  In a practice question-and-answer session in 2009, Button
said Edwards sidestepped the issue of a sex-tape related to the
affair. When asked, “Why did you deceive the  Democratic
Party ?” Button said Edwards answered, “I didn’t think I’d get
caught.”  The trial continues tomorrow.  The case is U.S. v. Edwards, 11-00161, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of North Carolina (Greensboro).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  