-- Elderly at Record Spurs Japan Stores Chase $1.4 Trillion
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2012-05-09T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/elderly-at-record-spurs-japan-stores-chase-1-4-trillion.html
Unicharm Corp. (8113) ’s sales of adult
diapers in  Japan  exceeded those for babies for the first time
last year. At  Daiei Inc. (8263)  supermarkets, customers can feel Japan
aging -- literally: It has made shopping carts lighter.  Companies are rushing to grab a bigger chunk of the
estimated 109 trillion yen ($1.4 trillion) that consumers over
60 spent in the year ended March 31 in Japan. The number of
Japanese over 65 hit a record 23.3 percent of the population in
October.  “We perceive this change as a golden opportunity for
growth,” Shohei Murai, executive vice president of supermarket
operator  Aeon Co. (8267) , told reporters in March. “In the ‘80s and
’90s, Aeon set families that were the massive majority in terms
of population as its main target. Now the elderly are going to
be the engine of consumption.”  Aeon,  Asia ’s largest retailer, is putting medical clinics
in some of its locations.  Japan’s fertility rate is 1.39 for women, compared with
1.93 in the U.S., according to the Ministry of Health, Labour
and Welfare. Japan’s  population , which peaked in 2005, is poised
to shrink to 125.2 million in 2014 from 126.5 million last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Model’ Case  The country is becoming a test case of how a modern retail
economy can switch from focusing on traditional, younger
customers.  “It could be a model case,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , chief
fund manager at Shinkin Asset Management Co. “They are
remodeling stores and changing products portfolios. It may take
time, but their efforts will be successful not only in Japan,
but also overseas.”  Unicharm, Japan’s largest diaper maker, said it’s counting
on just that. The Tokyo-based company said the lessons it’s
learning in Japan will help its expansion in  China , where the
population at or above 65 rose to 8.87 percent of the total as
of Nov. 1, 2010, up 1.91 percentage points from the 2000 census.
China introduced a one-child policy in 1979 to curb  population
growth .  “China will necessarily face the aging society at a faster
pace than Japan because of the one-child policy,” said Unicharm
Chief Executive Officer Takahisa Takahara in April. “We have
the responsibility to take Japan’s standards and spread it into
Asia.”  Value Conscious  Japanese retailers have no choice. People over 60 spent
more than any other age group in the year ended March and
accounted for 44 percent of Japan’s consumption, according to
calculations from Aeon, based in Chiba, near Tokyo.  “As the aging society proceeds, elderly people are re-
evaluating such retailers like  convenience stores  that sell
small packaged foods” said Fujiwara. “The elderly people buy
things that have value even if the price is high. They are the
group which has that financial power.”  Keizo Okuyama, 93, who lives in  Tokyo  with his sister, on a
recent visit to an Aeon store said he spends about 1,000 yen to
1,500 yen at the outlet every day. He likes the small food
packages Japanese retailers offer to attract elderly customers
living alone or in small families.  “I have pension from serving the military in addition to
regular pension,” he said. “I have more money than others.”  Adapting to Needs  Such shoppers are forcing retailers to retool their
businesses. Daiei, based in Tokyo, is slowing escalators to two-
third of the speed of regular ones and employing lighter
shopping carts using aluminum at some stores, said Daiei
spokesman Aichiro Yamaguchi. “We will reinforce our efforts on
elderly people as a measure to expand our sales,” he said.  Japan had 29.8 million people over 65 as of October,
according to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and
Communications.  Seven-Eleven convenience store operator  Seven & I Holdings
Co. (3382)  has a new card in Japan to offer discounts at pension time.
In April, the company introduced a variation of its “electric
money card,” a kind of debit card, offering a 5 percent
discount to people over 65 when pensions are paid out. Aeon and
Daiei have similar cards targeting the elderly.  Seven & I has started to operate trucks that go around
areas with a shortage of retailers to sell rice balls and
sandwiches to reach senior citizens.  Lunch Box Delivery  Convenience store chain  FamilyMart Co. (8028)  announced in March
that it will acquire lunch box delivery operator Senior Life
Create Co. to provide services for the elderly.  The two biggest retailers, Aeon and Tokyo-based Seven & I,
may have an edge in attracting the elderly because they have the
most cash to invest in store changes, said Koji Toda, chief  fund
manager  at Resona Bank Ltd. in Tokyo.  “In terms of financial muscle, companies like Seven & I
and Aeon are at an advantage,” Toda said. “Companies have to
open not just one or two stores, but many stores to lock in
customers.”  At Unicharm, said Takahara, who is also president, the
adult diapers business is becoming increasingly important to the
company.  “Domestic sales of diapers for the elderly are growing by
double digits,” Takahara told reporters last month. “It’s an
extremely important business in terms of both sales and profit
margin.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  