-- Electronic Arts Reaches Antitrust Deal Over ‘Madden’ Game
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-05-09T00:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/electronic-arts-reaches-antitrust-deal-over-madden-game-1-.html
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  is close to
resolving a customer lawsuit alleging the company’s exclusive
deals with the  National Football League  drove up the price of
its “Madden NFL” game, according to a court filing.  The second-largest U.S. video-game publisher reached “a
settlement in principle” and intends to negotiate a definitive
agreement within 45 days, lawyers for EA and Madden buyers said
in a filing today in federal court in San Francisco.  An antitrust complaint filed on behalf of Madden buyers in
2008 alleged that EA made a series of unlawful agreements with
the National Football League and other entities for exclusive
rights to market NFL-branded interactive football software. The
deals drove out competitors, enabling EA to charge 70 percent
more for its flagship football video game “Madden NFL,”
according to the complaint.  In 2010, U.S. District Judge Claudia Wilken in Oakland,
 California , certified the lawsuit as a class action, or group
suit on behalf of anyone who bought Madden NFL, NCAA or Arena
Football League software starting with a release date of 2005.
EA denied the allegations in the lawsuit.  The settlement amount wasn’t disclosed in court filings. EA
said in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing yesterday
that it recognized “a $27 million expense related to a
potential settlement of an ongoing litigation matter” in the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. The filing didn’t specify the
legal matter.  Jeff Brown , an Electronic Arts spokesman, and Shana
Scarlett, an attorney for Madden buyers, didn’t immediately
respond to voice-mail messages today seeking comment on the
accord.  The case is Pecover v. Electronic Arts, 08-2820, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco 
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 