-- Telecom Italia Quarterly Profit Rises on Growth in Brazil
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2012-05-10T16:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/telecom-italia-quarterly-profit-rises-on-growth-in-brazil.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ,  Italy ’s largest
phone company, said first-quarter profit rose 10 percent,
beating analyst estimates, helped by growth in Brazil and
 Argentina .  Net income advanced to 606 million euros ($785 million)
from 549 million euros a year earlier, the Milan-based company
said in a statement late yesterday. Revenue rose 4.5 percent to
7.39 billion euros. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated
profit of 572.3 million euros on sales of 7.32 billion euros.  “Despite the complex economic context, the domestic market
reported significant signs of recovery in revenue trends in the
first quarter, sustaining margins of around 50 percent,”
Executive Chairman Franco Bernabe said. “The excellent
performance of  Latin America  continues.”  To spur growth overseas, Telecom Italia’s Brazilian unit
 Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  agreed in July to buy AES Atimus Group to
add network capacity in  Sao Paulo  and  Rio de Janeiro . Tim
Participacoes previously said that first-quarter profit rose
more than 29 percent. Telecom Italia’s  Telecom Argentina SA (TECO2) 
unit, the country’s second-biggest phone company, has reported
that earnings climbed 11 percent.  ‘Marked Improvement’  On May 5, Telecom Italia said that Luca Luciani stepped
down as chief executive officer of its Brazilian unit and that
Telecom Italia Chief Financial Officer Andrea Mangoni would
replace him on a temporary basis.  “We are already looking at somebody that can take the role
of Luca,” Bernabe said on a conference call today. “I will be
myself very much involved in this transitory period but we are
very confident that in three months’ time we will go back to
normal.”  Domestic fixed-line and mobile revenue dropped 2.9 percent
to 3.24 billion euros and 1.7 percent to 1.65 billion euros
respectively in the first quarter, indicating a “marked
improvement,” Bernabe said in the statement.  “Results were broadly in line with expectations, but the
performance of the domestic mobile division was the positive
surprise,” said Saverio Papagno, an analyst at AZ Fund
Management in Luxembourg. Domestic mobile “is showing an
improving trend, probably helped by a less aggressive pricing
competition from other players.”  Media Disposal  Telecom Italia said it’s beginning the process to sell its
media business to focus on core activities and help it cut debt.
 Telecom Italia Media SpA (TME)  said in a separate statement it will
transfer its television assets to a separate company as part of
the sale process. Telecom Italia controls 77.7 percent of its TV
arm, which owns the La7 channel and 51 percent of MTV Italia.
The business also has broadcasting infrastructure assets.  Bernabe said on the call that Telecom Italia is keeping
“all options open” as it could sell individual assets or a
combination of them, or “the whole company.”  “A complete exit of Telecom Italia from the TV frequencies
is extremely unlikely” as in the future they may be used for
mobile communications, Telecom Italia Media CEO Giovanni Stella
said on a separate call today. Stella said that there is the
“utmost flexibility to bring out the value” of Telecom Italia
Media as all options will be considered.  Telecom Italia fell 0.5 percent to 84.2 euro cents in
Milan, giving the company a market value of 15.6 billion euros.
Telecom Italia Media jumped 13 percent to 17.8 euro cents.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization advanced 1.2 percent to 2.96 billion euros. The
company reiterated a February forecast of “essentially
unchanged” revenue and Ebitda this year.  Adjusted net debt fell to 30.3 billion euros at the end of
March from 30.4 billion euros at the end of last year. The
company repeated a forecast that adjusted net debt will fall to
about 27.5 billion euros at the end of this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  