-- Emerging Stocks Fall to 4-Month Low on Europe Concerns
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-05-09T21:02:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/emerging-stocks-fall-to-4-month-low-on-european-debt-woes.html
Emerging-market stocks slid, pushing
the benchmark index to a four-month low, as industrial equities
tumbled on concern political gridlock will derail Europe’s debt
crisis recovery, crimping demand for riskier assets.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 1.5 percent to 977.90
at the end of trading in New York, the lowest close since Jan.
17. Brazilian crude producer OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA
dropped the most in two weeks, as oil declined for a sixth day.
 China Shipping Container Lines Co. (2866) , the nation’s second-biggest
cargo-box carrier, plunged the most in seven months on concerns
Europe’s economic recovery may wane.  Leaders in debt-stricken Greece are struggling to form a
new government after May 6 elections where voters flocked to
anti-bailout parties.  China ’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  sank the
most in six weeks today, while Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  Index dropped
for a second day to the weakest level since Jan. 13, based on
closing prices. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of
commodities slipped to the lowest this year.  “Whether we like it or not,  emerging markets  remain a play
on risk appetite,” Jose Morales, who oversees $1.6 billion in
emerging market equities at Mirae Asset Global Investment in New
York, said in a phone interview. “At the moment, risk appetite
is declining because of the concerns coming out of Europe.”  China, Brazil  China Shipping tumbled 9.1 percent while OGX Petroleo lost
2.7 percent as the Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.7 percent and
Brazil’s Bovespa index slipped 1 percent. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong  lost
1.6 percent to its lowest since Jan. 9. The MSCI Emerging
Markets Industrials Index led declines among sectors on the
broad market, falling 2.5 percent.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  fell 0.9 percent to its lowest
since Jan. 30 as  Korea Zinc Co. (010130)  Ltd., which also manufactures
gold and silver, tumbled the most since Dec. 15. Gold futures
for June delivery fell 0.9 percent on the Comex. Korea Zinc Co.,
the world’s third-biggest producer of refined zinc, tumbled 8.7
percent in Seoul after metal futures dropped. Russian markets
were closed for a holiday.  Crude for June delivery fell 0.2 percent to $96.81 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Total Return Index of commodities dropped for a sixth day,
slipping 0.1 percent to 4,869.5.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has gained 6.7 percent this
year, while the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed nations added 4.9
percent. The gauge of developing nations is valued at 10.3 times
estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of
12.1 times.  E Ink Holdings Inc. (8069) , a maker of liquid crystal displays,
slumped 6.8 percent in Taipei to its lowest close since May 13,
2009. The company will implement two days of leave without pay
in May and June and cut executive salaries by as much as 20
percent, it said in a stock-exchange filing. Taiwan’s  Taiex
Index  retreated 0.9 percent.  Market Drag  Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. (042660)  Ltd., the
third-largest shipbuilder, sank 6.1 percent, leading declines
among South Korean shipyards on speculation Europe’s debt crisis
and a drop in  oil prices  may weaken demand for offshore
equipment and vessels. The stock slipped the most since Dec. 15.
Samsung Heavy Industries Co., Ltd. dropped 5.8 percent.  “If we’re going into a more deflationary period because of
Europe, that’s not good for commodities or even gold, which in
turn isn’t good for emerging markets,” Nelson Saiers, who
oversees $639 million at Alphabet Management LLC in  New York ,
including Chinese stocks, said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  