-- Enbridge CEO to Tap Canadian Oil-Sands Support for Gateway Pipe
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   B r a d   O l s o n
-- 2012-05-09T20:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/enbridge-ceo-to-tap-canadian-oil-sands-support-for-gateway-pipe.html
Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  Chief Executive Officer
Pat Daniel is counting on Canadians’ support for ending the
nation’s reliance on U.S. markets to boost the company’s chances
of building its proposed Northern Gateway pipeline.  “A recent poll shows that a vast majority of Canadians
believe we need to broaden out our market dependence,” Daniel
said at the company’s annual shareholder meeting in Toronto
today. The pipeline, which would transport crude from  Alberta ’s
oil-sands projects to the Pacific Coast, is necessary to expand
access for Canada’s most valuable exports to new markets,
including  Asia , he said.  A majority of Canadians believe developing Alberta’s oil
sands is more positive than negative, according to a May 3 Ipsos
Reid  poll  conducted on behalf of the Canadian Chamber of
Commerce. Three-quarters of those surveyed agree it’s important
for  Canada  to build the infrastructure needed to reduce its
dependency on the U.S. for hydrocarbon exports. The poll has a
margin of error of 2.2 percentage points.  Northern Gateway is opposed by some aboriginal groups and
environmentalists who say the pipeline threatens salmon streams,
forests and coastal waters.  NEI Investments, a Toronto-based fund which holds 148,000
Enbridge shares, proposed a motion at the shareholder meeting
that the company provide details on how the board of directors
assessed the risks associated with the pipeline, Jamie Bonham, a
senior analyst at the fund, said today.  Lengthy Litigation  “It seems likely that this opposition could result in
lengthy litigation,” he told shareholders today. “Ultimately
the strength of this opposition risks long-term damage to the
company.”  Enbridge has met with 17,000 people over the past few years
in the area affected by the proposed pipeline, Daniel, who is
also chairman, said today. The Calgary-based company has almost
50 percent support from the aboriginal groups living along the
1,177-kilometer (730-mile) pipeline route, Daniel said. The
company plans to end its offer to share revenue and ownership of
the pipeline with native groups at the end of the month.  Opponents say momentum is in their favor. The Yinka-Dene
Alliance, a group of aboriginal communities in central British
Columbia near the proposed pipeline, traveled to Toronto and
gathered outside the meeting to chant “no means no.”  “Pat Daniel needs to be aware that we have gained
support” for opposing the pipeline, said Jackie Thomas, the
elected chief of the Saikuz First Nation, in an interview today.
The Yinka-Dene Alliance has a petition with 15,000 signatures of
people opposing the pipeline, she said.  Exxon Valdez Spill  The proposed pipeline will terminate in the town of
Kitimat, on the Pacific coast of British Columbia. The area is
home to killer whales, salmon streams and farms and other marine
life. An  oil spill  on the coast would involve a complicated
clean up, reminiscent of the Exxon Valdez disaster on the
Alaskan coast in 1989, according to the Pembina Institute, a
Canadian environmental research organization.  Enbridge reported first-quarter net income fell to C$264
million, or 35 cents a share, from C$364 million, or 49 cents a
share, a year earlier, mostly from C$110 million in unrealized
derivative losses. Excluding the derivative losses, per-share
profit was two cents higher than the 48-cent average of 18
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The shares rose 0.2 percent to C$39.77 at the close in
Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Toronto via   jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  