-- Henkel Says Middle East War Is Bigger Risk Than Greece
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-05-09T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/henkel-says-middle-east-war-is-bigger-risk-than-greece.html
Henkel AG Chief Executive Officer
Kasper Rorsted said a conflict in the  Middle East  would pose a
greater danger to the economy than the Greek debt crisis.  “The biggest risk in 2012 is not Greece, it is war in the
Middle East,” Rorsted said in an interview in  London . Conflict
in the region is the “least manageable scenario” and would
increase volatility in raw-material prices, he said.  Clashes between security forces and protesters in Cairo
left one dead and hundreds injured on May 4, raising concern of
increased violence before this month’s presidential election.
 Egypt  holds Africa’s sixth-largest oil reserves.  Henkel, based in Dusseldorf, Germany, is among companies
that are tapping emerging markets such as  China  and eastern
 Europe  as the sovereign-debt crisis curbs demand in the euro
region. German economic growth will slow to 0.6 percent this
year from 3 percent in 2011, according to the Bundesbank, as
fellow euro-area members drop back into recession.  It will be difficult to reach Henkel’s goal of boosting the
proportion of sales from developing markets to 45 percent of
revenue this year from 42 percent in 2011 because of currency
fluctuations, including in Eastern Europe, the CEO said.
 Emerging markets  accounted for 41 percent of sales in the first
quarter compared with 40 percent a year earlier.  Sales in the Middle East and Africa rose 17 percent to 259
million euros ($335.5 million) in the first quarter, Henkel said
yesterday. That compares with a revenue increase of 9.7 percent
in the  Asia-Pacific region  and 0.2 percent in western Europe.
Total sales rose 4.8 percent.  Henkel, the maker of Persil detergent and Loctite glue,
expects raw-material prices to increase at a “mid-single
digit” pace this year, Rorsted said.  The Middle East will continue to be a “huge opportunity”
in the long term for Henkel, he said. “The price you pay for
presence in the region is volatility.”  Europe will remain “fairly stressed” for the next three-
to-five years, Rorsted said. “Almost irrespective of what will
happen to  Greece , the likelihood of it having a global impact is
very little.” The CEO also said that there will be no
“substantial” slowdown in China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  