-- EON Quarterly Profit Rises 27% on Russia, Gas-Contract Gains
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-05-09T16:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/eon-quarterly-profit-rises-27-on-russia-gas-contract-gains-1-.html
EON AG (EOAN) , Germany’s biggest utility,
said first-quarter profit rose 27 percent after the company
renegotiated natural-gas contracts and boosted sales in  Russia .  Underlying net income, the profit measure EON uses to
calculate its dividend, climbed to 1.7 billion euros ($2.2
billion) from 1.32 billion euros a year earlier, the company
said today in a statement. That met the 1.68 billion-euro median
estimate of six analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Earnings from the utility’s trading division were about 400
million euros higher than a year earlier, mainly because of the
renegotiation of a “significant percentage” of long-term gas
contracts, EON said. New generating capacity in Russia also
boosted profits, the company said. This helped to soften the
impact of reactor closures after  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
ordered a phase-out from nuclear power.  “We’re now past the worst,” Chief Financial Officer
Marcus Schenck said in the statement. “We’re making good
progress. But we still need to be resolute about meeting our
current challenges and implementing the changes we’ve
initiated.”  EON has pursued a 15 billion-euro asset-sales program, job
cuts and expansions in non-European markets including Brazil
after the Fukushima disaster in Japan prompted Merkel to call
for the permanent halt of all atomic plants by 2022. The first
phase of shutdowns trimmed earnings by 2.5 billion euros in
2011.  Renegotiated Contracts  EON said last week it renegotiated about two-thirds of its
natural-gas contracts after a March 13 agreement with Norwegian
producer  Statoil ASA (STL) , which accounts for about 25 percent of the
Dusseldorf-based company’s supplies.  European utilities have sought changes to their purchase
contracts with Statoil and Russian gas-export monopoly OAO
Gazprom since an oversupply following the 2008 recession caused
spot market prices in  Europe  to slump below long-term contract
rates typically linked to  oil prices . EON and  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s
second-biggest utility, are in negotiations with Gazprom to
adapt prices.  While profit in Russia rose 30 percent to about 200 million
euros as more generation capacity came online, the shrinking
reactor fleet and lower power prices in Europe weighed on
earnings, EON said.  The utility’s net debt stood at 37.6 billion euros at the
end of the first quarter, about 1.2 billion euros more than at
the end of 2011. Full-year underlying net income will be 2.3
billion to 2.7 billion euros, EON said.  As  Germany  takes reactors offline, it’s pledged to meet
power demand with more fossil-fuel-fired plants and alternative
energy. EON is raising investments in renewable-power generation
and is in “promising talks” with partners in India and Turkey
on opportunities for cooperation, Chief Executive Officer
Johannes Teyssen said last week.  EON fell 22 cents, or 1.4 percent, to 15.42 euros in
 Frankfurt . The stock has fallen 12 percent this year, valuing
the company at 30.9 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  