-- Tesla Jumps on Early Sedan Debut, Daimler Supply Deal
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-05-10T20:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/tesla-loss-widens-as-roadster-ends-model-s-due-in-june.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the electric-car
company founded by  Elon Musk , rose the most in six weeks after
the company said its Model S sedan will ship ahead of schedule
and that a supply agreement with  Daimler AG (DAI)  may boost sales.  Tesla gained 9.6 percent to $32.96 at the close in  New
York , the most since March 26.  The  Palo Alto , California-based company said yesterday it’s
advancing Model S sedan deliveries to June, rather than July,
and that it has more than 10,000 orders for the battery-powered
vehicle. The new contract to supply components for an electric
Mercedes-Benz model may be worth more than $280 million, Chief
Financial Officer Deepak Ahuja said on a conference call.  The startup named for inventor  Nikola Tesla  wants to be the
leading producer of premium all-electric vehicles with the
addition of the Model S, followed by the Model X sport-utility
vehicle in 2013. The addition of those products and supply
agreements to  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Daimler may bring Tesla’s
first profit by next year.  “At this relatively early stage, things do look promising
for Tesla,” said Ed Kim, director of analysis for Tustin,
California-based AutoPacific Inc., an industry researcher.
“Coming out ahead of schedule with Model S, securing orders and
deals, they’re attaining the goals they need to.”  Tesla yesterday also raised its second-quarter revenue
forecast to $560 million to $600 million, from $550 million to
$600 million, citing the revised schedule for Model S
deliveries.  ‘Increasingly Confident’  “We are increasingly confident of achieving a 25 percent
gross margin in 2013,” Musk, Tesla’s chief executive officer,
said yesterday on a conference call.  Tesla’s first-quarter loss widened from a year ago to $89.9
million with the end of sales of the battery-powered Roadster
sports cars. Excluding some items, the loss was 76 cents a
share, compared with 44 cents a year earlier, Tesla said.  The average of 11 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg
was for a loss of 70 cents. The net loss compares with a $48.9
million deficit a year earlier. Revenue dropped 38 percent to
$30.2 million from the year-earlier quarter.  The Model S, with a range of as much as 300 miles (483
kilometers) a charge, depending on the battery pack purchased,
should expand Tesla’s sales volume to at least 20,000 cars, Musk
said. The car’s $57,400 base price, before a $7,500 U.S. tax
credit, is half that of the Roadster, which Tesla has sold since
2008.  ‘Electric Powertrain’  Tesla’s agreement with shareholder Daimler is “to create
an entire electric powertrain for a new Mercedes-Benz EV,” Musk
and Ahuja said in a statement yesterday. “This program is
expected to exceed in value the sum of all powertrain agreements
signed in Tesla history.”  The combined value of past supply deals is about $280
million, and this would be “north” of that, Ahuja said on the
conference call.  The project, with a vehicle due by 2014, would be Tesla’s
third with the Stuttgart, Germany-based automaker, following the
supply of components for Daimler’s electric Smart cars and
Mercedes A-Class hatchbacks. Revenue from it may occur as early
as this year, Musk said.  Toyota, another investor in Tesla, previously agreed to pay
the company $60 million to develop  lithium-ion batteries  for an
electric RAV4 SUV and another $100 million over three years to
supply powertrain equipment.  RAV4 EV’s Pricing  Toyota said this week that it will sell 2,600 of the
vehicles for $49,800 in  California , starting this year.  Toyota’s pricing for the RAV4 EV “is a bit on the high
side,” Musk said on the call, without elaborating. Tesla is in
talks with  Asia ’s largest automaker to expand the program, he
said.  “The odds of scaling up are good,” Musk said, without
elaborating.  Toyota’s focus for now is selling those 2,600 units,  John Hanson , a spokesman for the carmaker’s U.S. sales unit, said in
a phone interview.  “I believe there will be talks about expanding the
project, but there haven’t been formal discussions,” Hanson
said.  The Model S is being built at Tesla’s Fremont, California,
plant that was previously a joint-venture owned by Toyota and
the former General Motors Corp. The factory, partly funded with
a $465 million federal loan, is also producing battery packs and
motors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  