-- Esprit Jumps as Efforts to Revive Brand Boost Sales
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-05-10T02:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/esprit-same-store-sales-increase-amid-efforts-to-revive-earnings.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , the Hong Kong-
based clothing retailer that makes most of its revenue in
Europe, climbed the most in seven weeks in Hong Kong trading
after saying same-store sales increased.  Esprit rose as much as 7.3 percent to HK$15.04, the biggest
intraday gain since March 21, after yesterday reporting revenue
at outlets open more than a year grew 0.5 percent in its fiscal
third quarter ended March. The retailer will also get a HK$700
million ($90 million) writeback from store closures in  North
America , it said.  The increase in comparable sales follows a 4.6 percent
decline in the six months ended December 31. Chief Executive
Officer Ronald Van der Vis wants to turn the company around by
boosting China revenue and improving fashion designs for the
company that last year said its brand had “lost its soul.”  “The trading statement is on balance better than I
expected,” said  Anne Critchlow , an analyst at Societe Generale
in London who has a hold  rating  on the stock. “Esprit has made
a good start in its transformation plan.”  Esprit plunged about 73 percent in Hong Kong trading last
year as European rivals  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s
Zara  lured customers away. Esprit reported a 74 percent drop in
first-half profit in February amid efforts to restructure the
business.  Esprit rose 7.1 percent to HK$15.02 as of 10:07 a.m. in
Hong Kong trading and has climbed 49 percent this year,  compared 
with a 10 percent advance for the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  Comparable-store sales, which strip out the effect of newly
opened locations, rose 2.8 percent in  Europe  during the quarter,
the company said yesterday. The company reported a 7.8 percent
drop in third-quarter revenue.  Esprit said it had completed the divestment of its North
American retail operations, with the last store closed in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  