-- Ethiopia Makes 4 Million Hectares of Land Available to Investors
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-05-09T13:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/ethiopia-makes-4-million-hectares-of-land-available-to-investors.html
Ethiopia  has made more than 4 million
hectares (9.9 million acres) of “fertile and unutilized” land
available for agriculture companies that meet government
requirements, Prime Minister Meles Zenawi said.  About 300,000 hectares has been leased for commercial
farming so far, he said at an Ethiopian investment forum today
in the capital, Addis Ababa.  “There has been a significant flow into large-scale state-
type commercial farming in our country and we seek even more in
the future,” he said  Investors in Ethiopian land include Bangalore-based
 Karuturi Global Ltd. (KARG) , the world’s largest rose grower, which is
developing 100,000 hectares in Ethiopia’s southwestern Gambella
region. The farm will have its first harvest in October,
Managing Director Sai Ramakrishna Karuturi told the forum today.  Horizon Plantations Ethiopia, which is majority owned by
Saudi billionaire Mohamed al-Amoudi, leased a 20,000-hectare
plot in the western Benishangul-Gumuz region in March to grow
groundnuts to produce cooking oil.  New land will only be allocated to applicants who submit
“proper” business and land-use plans, manage the environment and
provide jobs for local citizens, Meles said.  Inadequate applications are “perhaps one of the reasons
we’ve not succeeded in allocating more than 10 percent of land
that has been allocated for investment,” he said. The government
has repossessed land from inactive operators, Meles said.  Meles denied accusations by advocacy groups including the
California-based  Oakland Institute  that communities in western
Ethiopia are being forcibly evicted to make way for investors.
“The bulk of resettlement is happening on the opposite end of
where the private sector investment in agriculture is
happening,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 