-- MetLife to Purchase Georgia’s Reynolds Plantation Resort
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-05-09T22:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/metlife-to-purchase-georgia-s-reynolds-plantation-resort.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, agreed to buy the Reynolds Plantation luxury
residential golf  community  and resort in Greensboro,  Georgia .
Terms weren’t disclosed.  The resort’s Ritz-Carlton Lodge, which opened in 2002, has
251 guest rooms and a 26,000-square-foot (2,400-square-meter)
spa, and its six golf courses include Great Waters, designed by
 Jack Nicklaus .  Daniel Corp. , a Birmingham, Alabama-based real
estate developer, will manage the property, which is located
about 70 miles (113 kilometers) east of Atlanta, MetLife said
today in a statement.  “This is a premier community with world-class amenities, a
great reputation and a strong future,” Robert Merck, senior
managing director and head of real estate investments for New
York-based MetLife.  The company, which has a $60 billion real estate portfolio,
is building on a strategy of investing in and financing
destination-type hotels after mortgages in the lodging industry
rebounded more strongly than apartment loans.  In addition to its golf courses and Ritz-Carlton hotel,
Reynolds Plantation has 3,800 residences. The 27-year-old
resort, like many of its brethren, struggled to sell homes
during the housing slump, and has operated under bank-appointed
receivership for the past year.  The resort’s founder and owner, Greensboro, Georgia-based
Linger Longer Development Co., has been trying to pay off $45
million in debt needed to renew a line of credit, according to a
letter sent to members in February 2011. Linger Longer
executives Mercer Reynolds III and Jamie Reynolds previously
pledged $60 million of their own assets to contribute to the
resort’s $105 million of debt payments, according to the letter.  Residents Reject Plan  The Reynolds family had tried to save the resort, built on
90 miles of Lake Oconee shoreline and featuring almost 5,000
acres (2,000 hectares) of undeveloped land, by convincing 3,600
homeowners to purchase the golf courses, clubhouses and other
facilities. The residents rejected the plan.  Daniel Corp. has developed and managed similar residential
golf resorts, including  Ross Bridge  and  Grand River  in
Birmingham, and mixed-use developments such as  12th & Midtown  in
Atlanta and Riverside on the James in Richmond,  Virginia ,
according to the company’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anita Sharpe at 
 asharpe6@bloomberg.net  