-- Euro Holds Near Three-Month Low on Greece Stalemate
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-05-10T01:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/euro-holds-near-3-month-low-on-greece-stalemate.html
The euro traded 0.2 percent from a
more-than three month low as  Greece  remained divided on forming
a new government, stoking concern that another election could
set the stage for the country’s exit from the currency union.  The 17-nation euro remained lower, extending its longest
losing streak since 2008, before French data that may show
industrial production declined in March as the region’s debt
crisis weighed on growth. Demand for the yen was supported after
 Japan  posted a second monthly current-account surplus. The
Australian dollar traded near the weakest level this year before
the statistics bureau releases jobs data for April.  “The market has started anticipating Greece’s exit from
the euro,” said Junichi Ishikawa, an analyst in Tokyo at IG
Markets Securities Ltd. “Investors are also concerned that the
Greek shock will spread to other periphery nations like  Spain .
Selling pressure for the euro remains intact.”  The euro was little changed at $1.2939 as of 10:22 a.m. in
Tokyo from $1.2929 yesterday, when it touched $1.2912, the
lowest level since Jan. 23. The shared currency added 0.1
percent to 103.08 yen from yesterday, when it fell to 102.76,
the least since Feb. 16. The yen was little changed at 79.67 per
dollar from yesterday when it strengthened 0.3 percent.  Australia ’s dollar bought $1.0056 from $1.0051 yesterday,
when it fell as much as 1 percent to $1.0021, the weakest since
Dec. 20.  Evangelos Venizelos , Greece’s Pasok party leader and former
finance minister, said he’ll try to form a government when he
receives a three-day mandate from President Karolos Papoulias
today. Pasok yesterday rejected terms for a government set by
Alexis Tsipras of Greece’s anti-bailout Syriza party which then
gave up its bid to build a coalition.  Greece Exit  Euro-area leaders from the  European Central Bank ’s Joerg Asmussen to German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  raised
doubts that Greece can stay in the monetary union.  “If Greece decides not to stay in the euro zone, we cannot
force Greece,” Schaeuble said at a conference sponsored by
German broadcaster WDR in Brussels.  Asmussen, a member of the ECB’s executive board, told
Handelsblatt on May 8 that for Greece “there is no alternative
to the agreed consolidation program if it wants to remain a
member of the euro zone.”  More than 50 percent of investors in a Bloomberg poll
predict the 17-nation euro area is on the verge of losing one of
its members as deadlock in Greece’s political turmoil threatens
to push the debt crisis to new depths. Fifty-seven percent of
the 1,253 investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg
subscribers said at least one country will abandon the euro by
year-end.  French Debt  The majority of respondents to the May 8 survey identified
deterioration in  Europe  as a large threat to the world economy
and were less willing to buy French debt as President-elect
Francois Hollande takes power.  In  France , industrial production probably fell 0.6 percent
in March from the previous month, when it gained 0.3 percent,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The national
statistics office Insee in Paris will announce data  today .  The euro has weakened 4 percent over the past six months,
the worst performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
rose 1.5 percent, and the yen dropped 1.3 percent.  ‘Risk-Off Environment’  “The market is likely to stay in a risk-off environment
because of uncertainty in Europe, and the bias is for haven
currencies to be bought, such as the dollar and yen,” said IG
Markets’ Ishikawa.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 0.4 percent, after
earlier dipping below 9,000 for the first time in three months.  The yen traded as strong as 79.61 per dollar after Japan
released trade data for March. The nation had a current-account
surplus of 1.59 trillion yen ($20 billion) for the month, the
Ministry of Finance said today in Tokyo. The median economist
estimate in a survey by Bloomberg News was for a surplus of 1.43
trillion yen.  Gains in the yen were limited as the currency’s 14-day
relative strength index against the euro rose to 72 yesterday,
above the 70 level some traders see as signaling an asset may
reverse direction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in  Tokyo  at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  