-- Europe Won’t Accept Laxer Greek Bailout Terms, Borg Says
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-05-09T13:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/europe-won-t-accept-laxer-greek-bailout-terms-borg-says-1-.html
Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg 
said Greece won’t be able to ease terms of its international
loan package as the euro area’s most indebted nation faces the
prospect of a government led by anti-bailout politicians.  “It will be very difficult to backtrack in the
International Monetary Fund program,” Borg, whose country
stands outside the euro, said in Stockholm today. “It’s not
acceptable to lower demands.”  A surge for anti-bailout candidates in Greece’s May 6
election has reignited European concerns over the country’s
ability to stick to the terms of its two bailouts since May
2010. With parliament split, the country at the center of the
area’s debt crisis is again facing the risk of a euro exit.  “They have a substantial financing need and therefore they
must provide the necessary reforms to become sustainable in the
long term,” Borg said.  Alexis Tsipras of the Syriza party, which came second in
the election, demanded other leaders renounce support for the
European Union-led rescue if they want to enter government.
Antonis Samaras of  New Democracy  and  Evangelos Venizelos , the
former finance minister who leads the Pasok party, rejected a
request to send a letter to the EU revoking their written
pledges to implement austerity measures.  EIB Skeptic  Separately, Borg said his country is “skeptical” on re-
capitalizing the  European Investment Bank , which has been
proposed as an idea to ease the region’s crisis.  “They have the opportunity in the current framework to do
more and this should be used as a first option,” he said.  In neighbouring Finland, Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen
said that while primary measures to ease  Europe ’s debt crisis
must be structural, regional financing through the EIB is one
“possible path.”  Finland won’t decide on the issue now, she said at an event
in Helsinki. Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  also said at the same
event that he wouldn’t “dismiss” the idea of more financing
through the EIB, though it won’t be “decisive” in solving the
region’s problems.  The European Commission this week refloated proposals
including a 10 billion-euro ($13 billion) capital increase for
the EIB and the use of EU guarantees for private bond issues to
finance transport and construction projects.  Commission President  Jose Barroso  has said he expects
national leaders at a June 28 summit to approve the extra funds
for the EIB, which could unleash 60 billion euros in loans to
co-finance projects worth as much as 180 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  