-- Ex-Deutsche Securities Banker Plans Commodities Hedge Fund
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2012-05-09T07:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/ex-deutsche-securities-banker-plans-commodities-hedge-fund-1-.html
Ryo Ishiyama, a former Deutsche
Securities Inc. banker, plans to start a hedge fund investing in
global commodities futures as early as July using a strategy he
employed on his own personal investments.  The hedge fund will employ a so-called CTA strategy that
uses computer systems to invest in exchange-traded futures
around the world, said Ishiyama, 32, who set up Tokyo-based
Steinberg Capital Co. in October 2011. The fund will have 300
million yen ($3.8 million) initially, 200 million yen of which
is Ishiyama’s own money. He plans to raise the fund’s maximum
capacity of 1 billion yen in about a year, he said.  Ishiyama joins a breed of new hedge funds seeking to
provide alternative investments for Japanese clients following
AIJ Investment Advisors Co.’s suspension by regulators for
allegedly losing more than $1 billion with hedge-fund strategies.
Ishiyama said he began investing 10 million yen of his own money
in 2006 and that grew to 200 million yen by using a systematic
trading strategy.  “What I want to offer isn’t investments that cater to
investors’ requests, but rather want to attract investors who
understands my strategy and are willing to put in money because
of my strategy,” Ishiyama said in an interview in  Tokyo 
yesterday. “As we’ve seen in AIJ’s case, you don’t run a fund
for the sake of raising more money -- you run a fund to make
returns.”  Newcomers  Ishiyama’s fund will target annual returns of about 20
percent and will have a Sharpe ratio of 2.3, he said. Sharpe
ratio is a formula which analyzes whether investments offer
enough returns to offset their  risks . The greater a fund’s
Sharpe ratio the better its risk-adjusted performance. Funds
employing equity strategies would typically have a Sharpe ratio
of about 1, he said.  The new fund will invest in global commodities markets
including the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the world’s largest
energy exchange, and the Tokyo Commodity Exchange, Ishiyama said.  Most Japanese institutional investors are buying passive
funds that track indexes to tap the  commodities markets , leading
to mispricings that create opportunities, Ishiyama said.  Traditional CTAs, which rely on developing computer models
that fit historical price curves, do well in markets with clear
trends. They tend to lose money when markets suddenly change
direction. The Eurekahedge CTA/Managed Futures Hedge Fund Index
has declined 0.6 percent through April.  “I am only seeking to raise money with the capacity of the
strategy and not any more until I enhance the system,” he said.
“For now, I want to focus on managing private money, which is
mostly my own money, to build my track record.”  Almost 21 percent of Japanese pension funds plan to
increase alternative investments in the fiscal year that started
on April 1, a survey by JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Tokyo-based asset
management unit. The increase was the most among 10 asset types.  Ishiyama said he will officially leave Deutsche Securities,
where he developed fixed-income derivative products after
joining in Tokyo in 2010, at the end of the month. He began his
career in 2002 at Daiwa SB Capital Markets where he was an
equity derivatives trader, after which he worked at Citigroup
Global Markets and Morgan Stanley in Tokyo, where he developed
derivatives products.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 