-- Ex-Marvell Employee Gets 2 Years Probation in Stock Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-05-09T22:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/ex-marvell-accountant-gets-two-years-probation-in-insider-case.html
Former  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) 
accountant Stanley Ng was sentenced to two years’ probation for
his role in an  insider-trading  scheme involving so-called expert
networking firms.  Ng, who was the Securities and Exchanges Commission
reporting manager for Hamilton, Bermuda-based Marvell, pleaded
guilty in December, admitting that he passed information about
the chipmaker’s earnings in 2007 and 2008 to two members of an
“investment club” that prosecutors said was set up to trade
illegal stock tips.  “Everyone agrees that this defendant is at the very low
end of insider trading, a very, very limited offense brought
about in large part by his relation to Ms. Jiau,” U.S. District
Judge Jed S. Rakoff said today at Ng’s sentencing in  Manhattan ,
referring to Winifred Jiau, a former consultant with expert-
networking firm Primary Global Research LLC.  Jiau was convicted by a jury and sentenced to four years in
prison in the scheme by Rakoff.  In addition to the term of probation, Ng must perform 400
hours of community service, pay a $2,000 fine and forfeit
$6,464. In sentencing Ng to probation, Rakoff agreed with the
recommendation of U.S. probation officials. Federal sentencing
guidelines called for six months to a year of prison, Rakoff
said.  Nationwide Probe  The prosecution is part of a nationwide probe of insider
trading by Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara and the  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation in  New York .  The government said Ng was recruited by Jiau, who sold Ng’s
tips to Noah Freeman, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio
manager, and to Samir Barai, founder of New York-based Barai
Capital Management LP, for a monthly fee.  Freeman and Barai have both pleaded guilty.  Ng’s lawyer, Silvia Serpe, told Rakoff today that her
client didn’t make any money or trade on any inside information.
He passed tips to Jiau only after she nagged him repeatedly,
Serpe said.  “She kept going, she kept at it,” Serpe told Rakoff
today. “Not one phone call -- two, three, four, five calls for
each period until she got what she wanted.”  Ng said he passed information to Jiau and Sonny Nguyen, a
former employee at  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , about Marvell’s quarterly
results before they were made public. In exchange, Ng said he
received similar stock tips from his co-conspirators.  Apologies to Court  “I have been very profoundly affected by my actions,” Ng
told Rakoff in the hearing. “I’d like to apologize to the
court, my family, my friends, my former colleagues and employer
and anyone else who has been affected by my actions.”  Assistant U.S. Attorney Avi Weitzman, who prosecuted the
case, said in court papers that Ng should get six to 12 months
in prison.  Weitzman said that after Marvell conducted an internal
investigation following Jiau’s arrest in December 2010, Ng
“flat-out lied and answered that he did not have any
familiarity with Jiau.” He later acknowledged meeting her “but
continued to lie, denying having any ongoing contact with her or
providing Jiau any information about Marvell,” according to the
prosecutor.  After Ng refused to cooperate further, Marvell terminated
him.  Nguyen, who worked in Nvidia’s finance department and
testified against Jiau, got one year of probation.  The case is U.S. v. Ng, 11-02096, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  