-- Exchanges Plan Mini Contracts Amid Record Share Prices
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-05-09T20:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/exchanges-plan-mini-contracts-amid-record-share-prices.html
Exchanges seeking to feed demand for
options after trading reached a ninth straight annual record are
asking regulators to approve smaller contracts, concerned the
highest stock prices on record make some of them too expensive.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s 41 percent gain this year to $569.18 means it
costs $2,455 to buy a  call  expiring in June with a strike price
of $565, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
$609.15 share price requires a $1,840 investment for one June
contract giving the right to buy 100 shares at $610 each.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  has rallied 100 percent
since March 2009, driving 46 stocks in the measure to at least
$100 a share. Equity option volume has slipped 7.7 percent in
2012 from last year and three venues plan to join the existing
nine. The smaller contracts, giving the right to buy or sell 10
shares instead of the current 100, are aimed at individuals
looking to hedge after the average price of a stock in the  S&P
500  climbed to a record $58.52.  “For a retail account to buy options on Apple, it becomes
a substantial investment,”  Andy Nybo , principal and head of
derivatives at New York-based Tabb Group LLC, said in a phone
interview. “It’s all about attracting order flow and one way to
do that is by providing new products that answer investor
needs.”  The Securities and Exchange Commission is arranging a
meeting with NYSE Arca Options and the  International Securities
Exchange  to discuss terms they’ve proposed on so-called mini-
options.  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD)  and the Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association urged the venues to avoid
creating confusion by offering different specifications for
similar products.  ISE Support  “The SEC has reached out to us to see if we would be
willing to work with them and any other interested exchange to
forge a common proposal,” Molly McGregor, a spokeswoman for New
York-based ISE, which is owned by Deutsche Boerse AG of
 Frankfurt , said in an e-mail. She said ISE would support the
effort.  NYSE Arca Options will participate in the meeting, said
Katrina Clay, a spokeswoman at New York-based NYSE Euronext.
 John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  Higher prices for stocks and exchange-traded funds such as
the  SPDR Gold Trust (GLD) , which trades for $156, limit the ability of
investors who own fewer than 100 shares to use hedging
strategies, Christopher Nagy, managing director for order
routing and market data strategy at TD Ameritrade, said in an
April 30  letter  to the SEC. He suggested the SEC reject the
proposals from both exchanges and said the venues should work
together to agree on a common methodology.  Odd Lots  Trades in so-called odd lots, or transactions of fewer than
100 shares, have increased at TD Ameritrade and elsewhere as
prices have risen.  About 77 percent of executions in Apple by TD Ameritrade’s
customers occurred in odd lots last month, the company told the
SEC. Clients conducted 84 percent of their trades of Google
shares through odd lots, 69 percent for  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and 84
percent for  Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN) , the broker said. Amazon closed
at $222.98 today and Priceline, the highest-priced stock in the
S&P 500, ended at $718.95.  NYSE Arca Options and ISE asked the SEC for permission to
trade equity derivatives based on 10 shares for at least five
stocks. Terms such as strike prices and the multiplier used to
determine the cost of the options’ price differ in the two
proposals and wouldn’t permit the products to be
interchangeable. The exchanges also proposed different
requirements for when smaller-size options could be created on
stocks and ETFs.  ‘Single Product’  “The direction we’ve been getting from the industry is
that it’s preferable for us to come to terms with our competitor
and have a single product,” Amy Farnstrom, co-chief executive
officer of NYSE Arca Options, said in an interview at an
options-industry conference in  New Orleans  on May 4. “I can’t
imagine we won’t follow the feedback we’re getting. Many people
see strengths in both proposals and it would be a more
consistent approach to launch one product.”  The SEC must supervise discussions about the specifications
for mini-options between the exchanges to avoid antitrust issues
that may arise, said Farnstrom, who is also head of U.S. options
business technology for NYSE Arca and NYSE Amex Options, an
equity derivatives venue co-owned by  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and a group
of seven brokers.  Sifma’s Support  Sifma said it supported TD Ameritrade’s suggestion that the
SEC work with NYSE Arca Options and ISE to create standardized
mini-options, according to Jim Boyle, an executive in the
options business at UBS AG who is on the trade group’s options
committee.  NYSE Arca, the ISE and other exchanges “need to come
together and reach a consensus, or a consensus should be pushed
forth by the regulators so the contracts are consistent and
fully fungible,”  Randy Frederick , managing director for active
trading and derivatives at Charles Schwab Corp., which has $1.83
trillion in client assets, said in a phone interview yesterday
from Austin,  Texas . Contracts that are fungible have the same
terms and are interchangeable with those bought and sold on
another exchange.  The NYSE Euronext exchange, which  proposed  its version of a
mini-option in March, recommended strike prices that are a tenth
the size of the current contracts while ISE suggested using the
same strike prices as the standard-size contract and cutting the
multiplier instead. It said in its April  request  that the
multiplier should be 10 instead of the usual 100 to reflect the
smaller size.  No Limit  Mini-options would also be available on different stocks
and ETFs under the two exchanges’ proposals. NYSE Arca said it
would list five contracts based on shares that are at least $100
and whose standard options have an average daily volume of at
least 45,000 contracts over the last three months. ISE provided
no limit to the number of options it would offer and said they
should be based on securities with prices of at least $150 and a
three-month average daily volume of 10,000 contracts.  Ralph Edwards, director of derivatives strategy at
Investment Technology Group Inc. in  New York , said he’s cautious
about the prospects for mini-options on high-priced securities.  “There’s a real-life balance between institutional,
professional and retail investors in this marketplace and
anytime you try to create a product that just really satisfies
one niche, I’m skeptical it’s going to have legs,” he said
yesterday.  CBOE Concerns  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
 VIX (VIX) , which measures the cost of S&P 500 equity derivatives, rose
5.4 percent to 20.08 today. Its European counterpart, the VStoxx
Index, a measure of Euro Stoxx 50 Index option prices, fell 0.4
percent to 31.21.  The CBOE, which said it supports smaller-size contracts for
high-priced securities, told the SEC it should address issues
related to when a venue or broker can buy or sell at a price
worse than what’s available elsewhere when options of two sizes
are trading at the same time. The issue has come up in earlier
discussions about contracts of different sizes, the exchange
owned by  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  told the SEC in a  letter  on April
30.  “It would be great for traders looking to sell puts in
stock they are willing to own,” Joe Kunkle, founder of
OptionsHawk.com, a Boston-based provider of options-market
analytics, said in an e-mail yesterday. “It would likely be
popular for small retail investors and could encourage them to
use options to tailor the risks in their portfolios.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  