-- Falcone Says Investors ‘Passing Up’ Illiquid Investments
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-05-09T20:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/falcone-says-investors-passing-up-illiquid-investments-1-.html
Phil Falcone , whose hedge fund
Harbinger  Capital Partners  LLC has invested about $3 billion in
a wireless venture that’s fighting to avert bankruptcy, said
investors are passing up good illiquid investments.  “What everybody is focused on right now is liquidity,”
Falcone, 49, said today at the  Skybridge Alternatives Conference 
in  Las Vegas . “People are passing up I think pretty solid
opportunities that are relatively illiquid because of the
uncertainty with the investor base.”  Falcone’s main hedge fund has about 40 percent of its
assets in LightSquared Inc., a startup broadband company
fighting for survival after the Federal Communications
Commission said in February it would withdraw preliminary
approval for the company’s network. This week, Falcone received
a second weeklong extension from creditors, who are negotiating
with Falcone to give up some of his equity in the venture, a
person with knowledge of the matter said.  Client money in his hedge fund has been locked up since
December, when Falcone suspended redemptions for the second time
in three years. Falcone, who rose to fame with bets against U.S.
subprime mortgages in 2007, has said he plans to use  Harbinger
Group Inc. (HRG) , a publicly traded holding company he controls,
rather than his fund Harbinger Capital Partners, to finance
investments in the future.  ‘Some Issues’  “One of the issues I’ve really struggled with in my
career, which has created some issues for me in the past, was
what vehicle and asset-liability mismatch,” Falcone said today.
“I’m moving more toward a permanent capital vehicle so we can
focus more on control.”  Falcone, who effectively has been running Reston, Virginia-
based LightSquared since February, has already conditionally
agreed to a request by creditors that he step down from the
board and executive committee of the company, according to
people familiar with the talks who weren’t authorized to speak
publicly.  Falcone, speaking on a panel titled “Risk on, Risk Off:
How to Generate Profits in a Macro Driven World,” said among
the liquid investments, he sees more opportunities in stocks
that are producing  cash flow  and paying dividends, rather than
in bonds.  “You aren’t getting paid enough to overweight fixed-
income,” he said.  His biggest worry, Falcone said, was how the troubles in
 Europe  would affect other parts of the world such as  China .  “If you could put Europe in a box and sift through their
issues, they’re going to have problems,” Falcone said. “I’m
more concerned about how that ripple affects other parts of
world, especially China.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  