-- Fannie Mae Stops Racking Up Debt at the U.S. Treasury
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-05-09T23:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/fannie-mae-stops-racking-up-debt-at-the-u-s-treasury.html
For the first time since  Fannie Mae (FNMA) 
was seized by the U.S. government in 2008, it is performing well
enough to stop adding to the debt it owes taxpayers, a milestone
in the history of a company that was pushed to the brink of
collapse by investments in subprime loans.  The Washington-based mortgage financier yesterday reported
a profit of $2.7 billion in the first quarter even after making
a dividend payment of $2.8 billion on its debt to the Treasury,
leading officials to declare a turning point for the company. In
the few previous quarters when Fannie Mae and its smaller
cousin, Freddie Mac, have posted operating profits during the
past four years, the dividend payments have forced them to seek
more aid from Treasury to balance their books.  “We expect our financial results for 2012 to be
significantly better than 2011,” said Susan McFarland,  Fannie
Mae  executive vice president and chief financial officer.  “Our
credit performance is headed in the right direction.”  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac together have taken almost $190
billion in U.S. aid since they went into conservatorship and
their footprint has expanded to the point that they own or
guarantee more than half of U.S. home loans, leading many
Republicans to call for them to be wound down. A change in the
fortunes of the two so-called government-sponsored enterprises
could reduce political pressure for the administration of
President  Barack Obama  to produce a plan for dismantling them
and reducing the government’s role in housing finance.  “From where we were in the depths of the crisis, this is a
pretty remarkable transition,” said Isaac Boltansky, Washington
policy analyst at Compass Point Research and Trading LLC. “It
really gives the Obama administration some breathing room on GSE
reform.”  Loan Quality  Fannie Mae has finally put aside enough reserves to cover
expected losses on faulty loans and the quality of the new loans
it is backing is beginning to “shine through,” McFarland said
in a telephone interview.  Fannie Mae decreased loss reserves to $74.6 billion as of
March 31 from $76.9 billion three months earlier. The company
reported a $16.9 billion net loss for the full year of 2011.  “This quarter shows the earnings potential of this company
and our ability to pay taxpayers back over time,” McFarland
said.  Fannie Mae’s news came amid other positive indicators for
housing yesterday. CoreLogic Inc. reported that the serious
delinquency rate, representing borrowers more than 90 days late
on payments, fell in March to 7 percent, the lowest since July
2009. Prices for single-family homes climbed in half of U.S.
cities during the first quarter, the National Association of
Realtors said.  Freddie Mac Profit  Freddie Mac  last week reported a profit of $577 million and
took an additional $19 million in Treasury aid after paying its
dividend.  Still, some analysts cautioned against reading too much
into one quarter of profitable results.  “I’d be a little cautious about reading into it their
having turned the corner completely,” said Clifford Rossi, a
 University of Maryland  professor and former managing director of
Citigroup Inc.’s consumer lending group. “It certainly looks
good and promising for their ongoing performance, but they are
nowhere near out of the woods.”  Lawrence White, an economics professor at  New York 
University’s Stern School of Business, said it may be a long
time before the two companies, which are now essentially paying
interest to Treasury, can significantly reduce their debt.  “In terms of actually diminishing the Treasury’s capital
contribution, there’s a long way to go on that,” he said.  Crisis Fallout  Meanwhile, the fallout from the mortgage crisis is still
playing out on the company’s books. Fannie Mae is continuing to
battle with lenders, particularly Bank of America Corp., over
refunds for faulty mortgages. The company said its pending
requests to lenders for refunds rose about 17 percent in the
first quarter to $12.1 billion from $10.4 billion at the end of
2011.  As of March 31,  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America accounted for almost 60 percent of Fannie Mae’s loan
repurchase requests and more than 70 percent of those
outstanding for more than three months.  The Obama administration released a white paper last year
exploring different options for keeping, abolishing, or
reconfiguring government backing for mortgage finance.  Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the administration
expects to release more details of a plan for housing finance
reform this year.  Legislation Awaited  If Congress doesn’t move forward with legislation, a
continued turnaround at the government-sponsored enterprises
could raise the question of whether a plan to dismantle them is
needed, said Tim Rood, managing director of the Collingwood
Group, a Washington-based consulting firm.  “I have little doubt that a few quarters of profitability
will test the convictions of the administration on GSE reform,”
Rood said. “Frankly, raising their  capital requirements  and
eliminating their investment portfolios will largely fix the
issues that brought down the organizations.”  Even if the companies’ balance sheets improve, Republican
lawmakers are unlikely to change their minds, said
Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican and
chairman of the capital markets panel of the House Financial
Services Committee.  No Celebration Yet  “Not to be the skunk at the party, but I don’t think we
should be celebrating the fact that Fannie has finally posted a
profit after spending the last four years in conservatorship,”
Garrett said in an e-mailed statement. “The real celebration
will come after we dismantle the GSEs and end the ongoing
taxpayer bailout to keep them afloat.”  In its quarterly filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission yesterday, Fannie Mae cautioned investors that its
future is unclear.  “There continues to be uncertainty regarding the future of
our company, including how long the company will continue to
exist in its current form, the extent of our role in the market,
what form we will have, and what ownership interest, if any, or
current common and preferred stockholders will hold in us after
the conservatorship is terminated,” the filing said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  