-- Fannie Mae Won’t Seek Aid After Posting $2.7 Billion Profit
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-05-09T17:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/fannie-mae-won-t-seek-aid-after-reporting-2-7-billion-profit.html
Fannie Mae (FNMA) , the biggest backer of U.S.
home loans, said it won’t need Treasury Department aid to
balance its books for the first time since the company was
seized by federal regulators in 2008 amid losses that pushed it
to the brink of collapse.  The Washington-based mortgage financier reported net income
of $2.7 billion for the first quarter, citing lower credit
expenses, a decline in delinquency rates and a drop in its
property inventory, according to a statement today. The company
has drawn a total of $117.1 billion in aid while under U.S.
conservatorship.  “Today’s results exemplify the tremendous progress we have
made since 2009,” Michael J. Williams, Fannie Mae’s president
and chief executive officer, said in the statement. “Our
financial performance has improved significantly and we
successfully limited losses on the legacy book of business
through our efforts to help homeowners avoid foreclosure.”  Fannie Mae  and rival government-sponsored enterprise
Freddie Mac have relied on almost $190 billion in taxpayer aid
to stay afloat amid losses stemming from the collapse of the
subprime mortgage market. Today’s earnings report marks the
first time since the September 2008 takeover that either company
has been able to report a profit after paying dividends on the
Treasury’s nearly 80 percent stake.  ‘A Little Cautious’  “I’d be a little cautious about reading into it their
having turned the corner completely,” said Clifford Rossi, a
 University of Maryland  professor and former managing director of
Citigroup Inc.’s consumer lending group. “It certainly looks
good and promising for their ongoing performance, but they are
nowhere near out of the woods.”  Fannie Mae reported net worth of $268 million as of March
31, reflecting total comprehensive income of $3.1 billion,
partially offset by a $2.8 billion payment to Treasury.  Freddie
Mac  last week reported a first-quarter profit of $577 million
and required $19 million in aid after paying $1.81 billion in
dividends to Treasury.  The two companies, which own or guarantee nearly half of
mortgages on single-family homes, bundle and sell mortgages to
provide liquidity for the U.S. housing market.  Susan McFarland, Fannie Mae executive vice president and
chief financial officer, said in an interview that the results
demonstrate her company’s earnings potential and showed that it
is on a path to paying back taxpayers.  Future Losses  “We expect our financial results for 2012 to be
significantly better than 2011,” she said. “Our credit
performance is headed in the right direction with significant
improvement since 2009, and we expect that the reserves we have
built to cover future credit losses on the pre-2009 legacy book
of business have reached their peak.”  Fannie Mae decreased loss reserves to $74.6 billion as of
March 31 from $76.9 billion three months earlier. The company
reported a $16.9 billion net loss for the full year of 2011.  Lawrence White, an economics professor at  New York 
University’s Stern School of Business, said it may be a long
time before the two companies, which are now essentially paying
interest to Treasury, can significantly reduce their debt.  “In terms of actually diminishing the Treasury’s capital
contribution, there’s a long way to go on that,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  