-- Fed’s Plosser Says U.S. Economy Proving Resilient to Shocks
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-05-09T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/fed-s-plosser-says-u-s-economy-proving-resilient-to-shocks.html
Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank
President  Charles Plosser  said the  U.S. economy  has proven
“remarkably resilient” to shocks that can damage growth,
including surging  oil prices  and natural disasters.  “The economy has now grown for 11 consecutive quarters,”
Plosser said today according to remarks prepared for a speech at
the Philadelphia Fed. “Growth is not robust. But growth in the
past year has continued despite significant risks and external
and internal headwinds.”  Plosser, who did not discuss his economic outlook or the
future for monetary policy, cited shocks to the economy last
year, including the tsunami in  Japan  that disrupted global
supply chains,  Europe ’s credit crisis that has damaged the
continent’s banking system and political unrest in the  Middle
East  and North Africa.  “The U.S. economy has a history of being remarkably
resilient,” said Plosser, who doesn’t have a vote on policy
this year. “These shocks held GDP growth to less than 1 percent
in the first half of 2011, and many analysts were concerned that
the economy was heading toward a double dip. Yet, the economy
proved resilient and growth picked up in the second half of the
year.”  Plosser spoke at a conference at the Philadelphia Fed
titled, “Reinventing Older Communities: Building Resilient
Cities.”  Urban Resilience  His regional bank’s research department is working on a
project to measure the resilience of different cities, to learn
more about the reasons that some urban areas suffer more than
others in downturns, Plosser said. He mentioned one early
finding of the study: Industrial diversity increases a city’s
resilience.  “I do want to caution you that resilient and vibrant
communities are not just about government programs or directed
industrial planning by community leaders,” Plosser said. “The
economic strength of our country is deeply rooted in our market-
based economy and the dynamism and resilience of its
citizenry.”  Plosser, 63, became president of the Philadelphia Fed in
August 2006 following a career in academia. He was previously
dean of the graduate school of business administration at the
University of Rochester.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  