-- FHA New Foreclosures Jump as Modified Loans Default
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2012-05-09T16:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/fha-new-foreclosures-jump-as-modified-loans-default-mortgages.html
The number of Federal Housing
Administration-insured home loans entering foreclosure jumped in
March after half the mortgages it modified to ease repayment
terms were in default again a year or more later.  The FHA’s role in lending to first-time buyers with poor
credit and limited cash expanded after the 2008 collapse of the
mortgage  market  put it at the center of government efforts to
revive housing. The FHA allows down payments as low as 3.5
percent for borrowers with a credit score of 580, below the 640
defined as subprime by the  Federal Reserve .  “The credit standards are way too loose -- you can get
into a house with very little skin in the game, and if  home
prices  drop by a small amount, you’re underwater,” said  David Lykken , managing partner at Mortgage Banking Solutions, an
Austin, Texas-based consulting firm. “We’ve got to start
getting reasonable about standards. What they’ve done so far,
some very slight attempts at tightening, doesn’t really count.”  An increase in FHA foreclosures may lead to further demands
for stricter standards that could shut buyers out of the real
estate market as it shows signs of stabilizing after a six-year
slump. Mark Calabria, director of financial regulation studies
at the  Cato Institute  in Washington, in a February report called
for Congress to tighten the agency’s lending qualifications to
protect taxpayers, who insure the loans. First-time homebuyers
accounted for 33 percent of real estate sales in March,
according to the National Association of Realtors.  Treasury Study  Borrowers with mortgages for homes bought in 2010, the
FHA’s peak lending year, now owe almost 7 percent more than
their homes are worth if they used the minimum down payment,
according to S&P/Case-Shiller home price index data. That year,
the agency insured 1.1 million loans to purchase single-family
homes, more than four times the total of 261,165 in 2007.  Lenders initiated  foreclosures  on 36,400 FHA-backed
mortgages, twice the number in April 2011, according to Lender
Processing Services. The increase for Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac 
loans was 13 percent, the Jacksonville, Florida-based mortgage-
data company said.  A Treasury Department study of modified government-
guaranteed mortgages in the fourth quarter found that 49 percent
were delinquent again after 12 months. The Treasury report
analyzed a group of loans that was 80 percent FHA, 15 percent
Veterans Administration mortgages and 5 percent Department of
Agriculture rural home loans. The rate for Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac was 27 percent.  Brian Sullivan , a spokesman for the Department of Housing
and Urban Development, which oversees the FHA, declined to
comment beyond citing the limited scope of the Treasury’s study
covering 60 percent of the mortgage market.  Paid on Time  The share of government-guaranteed loans being paid on time
dropped to 84.2 percent in the fourth quarter from 85.2 percent
in the prior three months, the Treasury’s Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency said in its March 28 report. It was
the third consecutive quarterly decline.  The U.S. housing market is showing signs of having hit a
bottom after prices fell 35 percent since peaking in 2006.
Values in 20 U.S. cities fell 3.5 percent in February, the
smallest 12-month drop since February 2011, the S&P/Case-Shiller
index showed last month. New homes sold at an annual pace of
328,000 in March, up 7.5 percent from a year earlier, according
to the Commerce Department. Applications for mortgages to buy
homes rose 3.4 percent last week, the  Mortgage Bankers
Association  said in a report today.  Uneven Recovery  The recovery is uneven, with the annualized pace of
existing home sales falling to 4.48 million in March, the second
consecutive decline, according to the National Association of
Realtors. Housing starts fell 5.8 percent in March after a 2.8
drop in February, according to Commerce Department data.  About 4.4 percent of all U.S. mortgages were in  foreclosure 
in the fourth quarter, according to the Mortgage Bankers
Association in  Washington . That translates into more than 2
million homes that will have to be sold for the market to return
to equilibrium, said  Diane Swonk , chief economist of Mesirow
Financial Inc. in  Chicago .  “The main issue is we have a housing market that can’t
clear,” said Swonk. “Right now, for a lot of people, the FHA
is the only game in town.”  About 26 percent of the FHA-insured loans originated in
2007 are seriously  delinquent , meaning overdue by 90 days or in
foreclosure, according to a March 26 FHA report to Congress. For
2008 mortgages, the share is 24 percent. For 2009, the rate is
11 percent, for loans originated in 2010 it is 4.1 percent, and
for last year, it’s 1 percent. In September 2011, 638,000 FHA
mortgages were in their second default, the agency said in a
November report to Congress.  Credit Scores  The agency in 2010 began mandating credit scores of at
least 580 for borrowers who use its minimum down payment --which
was raised to 3.5 percent from 3 percent in 2009. Last year the
FHA cut the amount that sellers can give to buyers for down
payments to 3 percent from 6 percent.  “If prices have hit bottom, or they’re going to bump along
in the range we’ve seen recently, it probably won’t destabilize
the more recent mortgages,” said  Richard Green , director of the
Lusk Center for Real Estate at the University of  Southern
California  in  Los Angeles . “If prices keep going down, the FHA
might require some help from taxpayers.”  By law, the FHA must maintain a 2 percent capital ratio,
measuring assets against risks. The measure in the FHA’s
November report to Congress was 0.24 percent, based on an
independent actuarial study by Rockville, Maryland-based IFE
Group. A surge of defaults starting in 2008 drained the agency’s
funds as it ratcheted up reimbursements to lenders for unpaid
balances of defaulted loans and portions of foreclosure costs.  Hiked Fees  Additions to the FHA’s income in February means the agency
won’t need federal funds to meet its insurance obligations,
 Shaun Donovan , head of HUD, said in Feb. 28 Congressional
testimony. The FHA hiked fees to add about $1.25 billion to its
income, increasing its upfront insurance fee for most loans to
1.75 percent of the loan amount from 0.75 percent.  Also in February, the $25 billion national loan servicer
settlement included a payout of about $1 billion for the FHA.
Helped by the funds, the agency will meet the mandated capital
ratio by 2015, Donovan said.  The agency “has acted aggressively to strengthen and
protect the mortgage insurance fund and put FHA on a sustainable
path for the long term,” Carol Galante, acting FHA
commissioner, said in a March 27 blog. “FHA programs remain
vital to ensuring more Americans have the opportunity to realize
or maintain the economic security of the middle class.”  Lax Standards  Other FHA guidelines have remained intact. All of the down
payment can be funded by relatives or employers. Buyers can cite
income from future roommates to qualify for a loan. Cash
reserves, required by  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac to show a
borrower’s ability to pay a mortgage if a hot water tank bursts
or if the roof leaks, aren’t required for many FHA loans.  “Certainly the FHA standards are more lax than Fannie Mae
or Freddie Mac, but at the moment it’s filling a gap that Fannie
and Freddie aren’t,” said Mesirow’s Swonk. “It would be an
even more constrained housing market without the agency.”  The FHA was created by President  Franklin Delano Roosevelt 
in 1934 during the Great Depression. The agency’s mission was to
insure mortgages for low-income and first-time buyers. On its
website, it still describes its goal as expanding homeownership
for “underserved” communities.  “Their book of business is riskier than Fannie and
Freddie, which results in a higher foreclosure rate, and that’s
likely going to continue until the economy improves,” said
 Susan Wachter , professor of real estate and finance at the
 University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School in Philadelphia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in  Boston  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 