-- Filings Made When EBay Hired Thompson Accurate, CEO Donahoe Says
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-05-09T11:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/filings-made-when-ebay-hired-thompson-accurate-ceo-donahoe-says.html
John Donahoe , chief executive officer
of  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , the world’s largest Internet marketplace, said the
filings made when it hired Scott Thompson as president of its
PayPal payment business were accurate. The academic credentials
of Thompson, now CEO of  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , were questioned by Yahoo
investor Third Point LLC, prompting the board of the biggest
U.S. Web portal to review the matter.  Donahoe spoke to reporters in  Tokyo  today.  “When Scott was hired at EBay Inc., all of EBay’s filings
had the accurate information. Some of EBay’s PR materials had
that bio. Our legal filings were taken care of by our legal
department. Some of the PR materials had that info.  “I think  Scott Thompson  did a great job at PayPal. I think
he’s a very talented leader and I believe he can help Yahoo. I
hope they get through this and he can continue to do the very
challenging job he’s got of helping to turn Yahoo around. I’m
Scott’s biggest fan.”  On China strategy:  “Our strategy for China has been continue to grow our
cross-border business, both through EBay and PayPal. Two, we
have filed for an application to get a domestic payments
license. We hope PayPal becomes the first non-Chinese service to
get a domestic payment license. We don’t know the conditions for
that, whether it requires a partner or not.  “It’s clear that the competitive landscape for domestic
 China  business is that Chinese companies are best-suited for
working with government and with consumers.  “With commerce, we have a long-term view. We may do a
joint venture sometime. We may do an acquisition sometime. But
for now we’re content with growing a strong cross-border
business and continue to be diligent in applying for a domestic-
payment license.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  