-- Financial Firms Push Agencies for Swap Rules
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-05-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/financial-firms-push-agencies-for-swap-rules-to-spur-competition.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , Citadel
LLC and Getco LLC are pushing U.S. regulators to impose Dodd-
Frank Act swap-clearing requirements before next year to help
boost competition in the $708 trillion global swaps market.  The Clearing Coalition, a group of 13 firms including
proprietary traders, asset managers and  hedge funds , urged the
Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission yesterday to move promptly to complete the rules,
warning that delay will leave markets vulnerable, damage U.S.
competitiveness and stunt prospects for economic growth.  “It has been nearly two years since the Dodd-Frank Act was
signed into law, and industry preparations for the core reform
of central clearing are at an advanced stage,” the coalition
said in the letter. “We ask you to prioritize the finalization
of clearing rules to continue this momentum.”  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in response to
the 2008 credit crisis, calls for the SEC and CFTC to complete
rules that will have most swaps guaranteed by clearinghouses
that stand between buyers and sellers. The Clearing Coalition,
in its letter, said completing the rules will “assure new
entrants that an open, competitive market is near at hand.”  Wall Street banks currently dominate dealing of swaps and
other derivatives.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp (BAC)  .,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
controlled 95 percent of cash and derivatives trading for U.S.
bank holding companies as of Dec. 31, according to the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency.  The CFTC is preparing to complete the last of a series of
rules governing the process, and  Gary Gensler , the agency’s
chairman, has said he wants clearing to start before year-end.  End-Users  The agency is poised to complete a rule determining which
so-called end-users of swaps -- typically commercial and
manufacturing firms -- are exempt from clearing requirements.
The CFTC may also in coming months propose which swaps must be
guaranteed by clearinghouses, Gary Barnett, the agency’s head of
swap dealer and intermediary oversight, said last week.  Swaps and other derivatives are contracts whose value is
based on stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or
linked to specific events such as changes in  interest rates .
Clearinghouses seek to reduce risk in swaps by accepting margin,
or collateral, from trading parties in transactions.  The coalition’s letter was also signed by D.E. Shaw & Co.,
 AllianceBernstein Holding LP (AB) , Arbor Research and Trading Inc.,
DRW Holdings LLC, Eris Exchange LLC, Imperial Capital, Infinium
Capital Management LLC, Javelin Capital Markets LLC, Jefferies
and Co. Inc. and Nico Trading Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  