-- Gay Marriage Shows Obama Dilemma in Battleground States
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-05-09T21:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/gay-marriage-shows-obama-dilemma-in-battleground-states.html
Even as opinion polls show growing
approval of  same-sex marriage  nationally, opposition remains
strong in some battleground states, as North Carolina voted to
ban gay marriage and Colorado Republicans killed a measure to
approve civil unions.  Such divisions also reflect the split in Washington, where
President  Barack Obama  has been reluctant to echo endorsements
of gay marriage by Vice President  Joe Biden  and Education
Secretary Arne Duncan.  “I don’t think it could cost him the election, but I think
they’re scared it might, and they don’t want to take the
chance,” said Jim Williams, issue polling specialist for  Public
Policy Polling , a Raleigh, North Carolina-based Democratic
research firm. “Politicians are cautious people. Public opinion
on gay marriage is shifting very quickly.”  In an interview today on ABC News, Obama said same-sex
couples should be allowed to marry, the first time he’s declared
support for making gay marriage legal.  “I’ve just concluded that for me personally it is
important for me to go ahead and affirm that I think same-sex
couples should be able to get married,” Obama said.  As North Carolina yesterday passed a constitutional
amendment defining marriage as a contract between a man and a
woman, a  Colorado  legislative committee approved a  bill  allowing
homosexuals to enter into civil unions. Republicans in the
Colorado House later killed the measure by delaying the vote
past a midnight deadline.  Special Session  Saying his office received 500 calls and e-mails this
morning on the issue, Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper, a
Democrat, called today for a special session to debate the
civil-unions bill and other measures. He said he would announce
details tomorrow.  “I got a call last night that asked, ‘If not now, when?’”
Hickenlooper said at a press conference.  Gay-rights advocates had called on Obama to express
unqualified support for same-sex marriage. While he did so
today, the issue continues to pose risks for the president in
battleground states such as Ohio and  Pennsylvania , said  Paul
Allen  Beck, a professor of political science at  Ohio State
University  in Columbus.  “Ohio is shaping up as a very close contest,” Beck said.
“Ohio has a large Catholic population that is working class in
orientation and hasn’t been particularly warm toward Obama. I’m
sure he’s concerned about that. You worry about even one little
change in your posture that has the effect of siphoning off some
voters to the other candidate.”  ‘Absolutely Comfortable’  In a May 6 appearance on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” Biden
said he is “absolutely comfortable with the fact that men
marrying men, women marrying women and heterosexual men and
women marrying another are entitled to the same exact rights,
all the civil rights, all the civil liberties.”  The next day, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  deflected
repeated questions from reporters trying to draw out Obama’s
opinion on gay marriage, which the president had said was
“evolving.” The president supports civil unions and federal
rights for gay couples and opposes a constitutional ban on same-
sex marriage, according to the White House website.  Obama’s opponent, former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , a gay marriage opponent, also recently found himself in
the crosshairs of the debate when his openly gay foreign policy
spokesman, Richard Grenell, resigned May 1 -- less than two
weeks after being hired -- following criticism from social
conservatives.  Divisive Issue  Civil-rights scholars said the language Obama and his
advisers have used to define their position on gay rights is
evocative of how the electorate defines their views on the
politically divisive issue.  “Where he is when he says his view is evolving is right on
point with where Americans are, on average,” said Brian Powell,
a sociology professor at  Indiana University . “What he is saying
is peoples’ views are changing. People are still trying to get
their head around an idea that seemed very foreign to them a few
years ago.”  Just a decade ago, pundits considered the gay-rights issue
“politically poisonous,” said Steve Sanders, a visiting
assistant law professor at the  University of Michigan .  Today, half of the nation’s voters favor same-sex
marriages, with 50 percent of Americans responding to a Gallup
poll released yesterday saying such marriages should be
recognized as legal and 48 percent saying such unions should not
be legal.  Gay-rights advocates hope to capitalize on voters’ growing
support of equality measures at the ballot box this fall.  ‘Political Calculation’  “This is the first election year in which the marriage
equality side thinks in some states it might be helpful,” said
Jane Schacter, professor of law at  Stanford University . “It’s
different from the political calculation made in the past.”  Petitions are  circulating  on both sides of the issue. In
Ohio and  Nebraska , signature gatherers are circulating petitions
that would overturn bans on same-sex marriage. In Maryland and
Washington, initiatives are circulating that would overturn
state laws allowing civil unions and marriage equality.  “Same-sex marriage proponents are using the ballot this
year in a way I haven’t seen in the past,” said Jennie Bowser,
a senior fellow at the Denver-based  National Conference of State
Legislatures . “I’m seeing more petitions filed on this issue
than I have before.”  The  North Carolina  measure that passed yesterday
strengthened an existing law against gay marriage to prohibit
civil unions as well, said Maxine Eichner, a professor at the
University of North Carolina School of Law in  Chapel Hill .  ‘Three States’  “There are three states that I would put in the category
of having language as broad as ours, which are  South Carolina ,
 Idaho  and  Michigan ,” she said.  In Denver, momentum behind a bill that would have allowed
gay couples many of the same rights as married people surprised
even some supporters. The measure, which would have permitted
gay and lesbian couples to inherit property, take family leave
to care for a partner, to visit a partner in the hospital and to
make medical and end-of-life decisions for a partner, passed
three Republican-led House committees before being derailed on
the Republican-controlled House floor.  It’s the closest a civil union measure has come to passing
in Colorado, where voters in 2006 rejected a domestic
partnerships ballot initiative and amended the state
constitution to declare marriage is between a man and a woman.  “Justice is knocking on the door of the Colorado House,
but its cousin injustice is doing everything to close that
door,” Democratic Senator Lucia Guzman said at a rally on the
capitol steps yesterday. “If they shut the door, those of us in
Colorado know how we’re going to vote this fall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 Joldham1@bloomberg.net ; Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
   mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 Jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  