-- Genstar Said to Approach $1 Billion Goal for Buyout Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-05-09T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/genstar-said-to-approach-1-billion-goal-for-buyout-fund.html
Genstar Capital LLC has raised about
$900 million for its next private-equity fund, approaching a
reduced goal of $1 billion, according to two people with
knowledge of the San Francisco-based firm.  The target for Genstar Capital Partners VI LP was cut this
year from $1.5 billion amid a tough fundraising environment,
said the people, who asked not to be named because the
information is private. Genstar will offer additional co-
investment opportunities to investors seeking to put more money
into deals, said one of the people. The firm expects to complete
fundraising in the third quarter.  Chris Tofalli, a spokesman for Genstar, declined to
comment.  Genstar started marketing the fund early last year. The
management fee was lowered to 1.75 percent from 2 percent early
in the process after negotiations with some large investors.  Genstar makes equity investments of $50 million to $400
million in middle-market companies focused on life sciences,
health-care services, software and software services, financial
services and industrial technology, according to its website.  The firm’s prior fund, which also targeted $1 billion,
ended up with $1.55 billion in 2007.  Genstar’s most recent exit was in September, when it sold
Woods Equipment Co., a distributor of aftermarket tractor parts,
to  Blount International Inc. (BLT)  for about $185 million.  Jean-Pierre L. Conte is managing director and chairman of
Genstar. He joined the firm in 1995, and previously worked as a
principal at NTC Group, a private-equity firm focused on
industrial technology companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  