-- German Exports Unexpectedly Rose for Third Month in March
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-05-09T07:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/german-exports-unexpectedly-increased-for-a-third-month-in-march.html
German exports unexpectedly increased
for a third month in March as demand from outside the euro
region offset weaker sales in  Europe .  Exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal changes, rose
0.9 percent from February, when they gained 1.5 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists
forecast a drop of 0.5 percent, according to the median of 11
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey . Imports climbed 1.2
percent.  Today’s report is the third in as many days to suggest
 Germany  may have returned to growth in the first quarter after
the economy shrank in the final three months of 2011. Factory
orders and industrial production both rose more than economists
forecast in March.  “The indicators clearly confirm our view that the German
economy did not slide into a technical recession at the turn of
the year,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit Group
in Munich. “Net exports should have made a sizeable positive
contribution to growth at the beginning of this year.”  The  trade surplus  widened to 17.4 billion euros ($22.6
billion) in March from 14.9 billion euros in February, today’s
report showed. The surplus in the current account, a measure of
all trade including services, was 19.8 billion euros, up from
11.7 billion euros a month earlier. The statistics office said
exports and imports both reached record monthly values in March.  Company Profits  With at least eight euro-region nations in recession as the
sovereign debt crisis forces governments to cut spending, German
companies are tapping faster-growing Asian markets.  The country’s top three carmakers and their suppliers have
benefited from thriving demand in  China , with first-quarter
profits at Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, Volkswagen AG and
Daimler AG all beating analyst estimates. VW’s Audi unit will
create 2,000 new jobs in Germany to keep up with demand in  North
America  and  Asia .  Industrial output jumped 2.8 percent in March, the Economy
Ministry said yesterday, more than three times as much as
economists had forecast. Factory orders gained 2.2 percent, a
May 7 report showed, with demand from outside the euro region
surging 4.8 percent. Orders from the currency bloc stagnated.  Unemployment in the 17-nation region rose to a 15-year high
in March and manufacturing contracted for a ninth month in
April, adding to signs the economic slump is deepening.  The  International Monetary Fund  forecasts the euro-area
economy will contract 0.3 percent this year, compared with
projected expansions of 2.1 percent in the U.S. and 7.3 percent
in developing Asia. It predicts 0.6 percent growth in Germany.  “It’s going quite well at the global level,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “Chinese
demand has supported the German economy and we hope that
momentum will pick up in the euro area in the second half of the
year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  