-- Ghoulish Crime Anchors Nobelist Morrison’s Morality Tale
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-05-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/ghoulish-crime-anchors-nobelist-morrison-s-morality-tale.html
A black veteran returning from
the  Korean War  gets word that his sister is in trouble:
“Come fast. She be dead if you tarry.”  He’s in trouble himself. He has seen his three best
friends die in combat, and the shooting of a starving
little girl torments his memory. The combination of post-
traumatic stress and alcohol sometimes drives him around
the bend.  When Toni Morrison’s novella “ Home ” opens, Frank Money
is lying bound in a mental ward, plotting his escape. To
get home from  Seattle  to Georgia he’ll have to rely on
strangers. And as he finds along the way, there are always
kind strangers to help.  One of the themes Morrison has often returned to is
the power of black community. In “Home” the community that
gets Frank Money back to  Georgia  is a kind of continually
improvised Underground Railroad that has sprung up as a
response to white viciousness.  The white presence in “Home” is as minimal -- and as
evil -- as Morrison has ever rendered it. In a prologue set
years before the story proper begins, when Frank and his
younger sister, Cee, are still children, they watch the
furtive disposal of a corpse:  “We saw them pull a body from a wheelbarrow and throw
it into a hole already waiting.”  White Malevolence  The corpse is black, the group getting rid of it white
but anonymous: “We could not see the faces of the men doing
the burying, only their trousers.” They’re like a ghostly
incarnation of white malevolence.  Morrison saves the ghastly tale of their crime for the
end of the book.  Practically the only other white man in the novel is a
ghoulish Atlanta doctor Cee goes to work for, a
“heavyweight Confederate” named Beauregard Scott.  “He is more than a doctor,” the semi-invalid Mrs.
Scott tells Cee; “he is a scientist and conducts very
important experiments.”  The girl is too naive and ignorant to pick up on the
horror-movie overtones that the reader hears when the woman
adds defensively, “He’s no  Dr. Frankenstein .” Hence the
letter Frank gets at the beginning, from a frightened
servant in the doctor’s household.  Faulknerian Language  Morrison has spent much of her career chronicling the
injuries that black Americans have been dealt by white
Americans, with the aim of giving the victims back some of
the dignity they were robbed of. That’s her version of
forging the conscience of her race.  The great tool she has called to her aid is her
language -- a solemn, sensual, post- Faulknerian  lament that
drips beauty. But she doesn’t have Faulkner’s moral
complexity; nor does she aim for it. Most of her books --
and “Home” is no exception -- are frankly didactic.  Her characters learn lessons (her own word), and we’re
intended to learn alongside them. Half the time I’m reading
Morrison, I’m floored by the glory of her hortatory prose.
The other half I’m thinking, “Oh, come on.”  I’m sure no such doubts assailed the committee that
awarded her the 1993  Nobel Prize  in Literature. The Nobel
people adore morally committed writers. Morrison was
perfect for them.  No one could say she isn’t justified in responding to
the deep well of black pain by drawing on black evangelical
traditions -- that’s what makes preachiness an option more
available to African-American artists than to their white
counterparts.  I can’t allay my own skepticism, but then I’m not in
need of the balm she’s providing. And “Home” is clearly
intended as balm. It ends with a cherry-red sunset, the
long lament of her spiritual resolving in a major key.  “Home” is published by Knopf in the U.S. and Chatto &
Windus in the U.K. (145 pages, $24, 12.99 pounds). To buy
this book in  North America , click here.  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and
 James Pressley  on business books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 