-- Gilead’s Quad Pill Raises Kidney Questions, FDA Says
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-05-09T20:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/gilead-s-quad-pill-raises-questions-on-kidney-safety-fda-says.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s experimental
HIV pill Quad may need additional monitoring because of kidney
damage seen in studies, U.S. regulators said.  The four-in-one combination pill from Gilead, the largest
maker of AIDS drugs, had a “generally acceptable” safety
profile and retained more patients than standard treatments,
Food and Drug Administration staff said in a report today. The
agency asked advisers whether patients taking the drug should
undergo extra testing to monitor for kidney complications.  The medicine is designed to have fewer side effects than
current treatments. Approval of the Quad pill is crucial for
 Foster City , California-based Gilead, said Robyn Karnauskas, an
analyst with Deutsche Bank AG in  New York . The drugmaker is
facing the loss of half of its  revenue  from patent expirations
on AIDS therapies starting in 2018. If approved the new medicine
may generate as much as $4 billion in annual sales, she said.  “It is really important for Gilead as a stock that the
Quad comes to market and there is nothing bad in the data,”
Karnauskas said in a telephone interview. “It will really hurt
the stock if this drug doesn’t come to market.”  The FDA’s panel of advisers will meet on May 11 to make a
recommendation on the drug. The agency doesn’t have to follow
the advice of the committee.  Shares Gain  Gilead rose 2.4 percent to $50.64 at the close of New York
trading. The stock has gained 23 percent in the past 12 months.  Gilead’s three-drug pill Atripla, approved in 2006, is the
top-selling AIDS medicine. The therapy mixes Gilead’s two-drug
medicine Truvada, approved in 2004, with  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY) ’s Sustiva. Quad contains four Gilead compounds in a single
pill that patients take once a day.  An FDA review of studies funded by Gilead found a higher
number of kidney problems reported in people taking Quad
compared with other HIV treatments. Those side effects included
four cases of  kidney failure  and one case of a rare syndrome
where substances aren’t absorbed into the blood stream by the
kidneys.  Still, there were fewer patients who stopped taking Quad
early because of side effects and the incidence of side effects
was similar to other drugs, the FDA said.  Karnauskas said she isn’t concerned that the kidney risk
may prevent the drug from getting to market.  “It is just a minor detail, which is why I’m not
worried,” she said.  Company-sponsored studies have shown Quad works as well as
Atripla. Eighty-eight percent of patients in a 48-week study who
took Quad had no detectable levels of HIV in their blood
compared with 84 percent of those taking Atripla, according to
research presented in March at the  Conference  on Retroviruses
and Opportunistic Infections in  Seattle .  The FDA is scheduled to decide by Aug. 27 whether to
approve Quad for U.S. sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  