-- Gillard Says Budget Gives RBA Maximum Room on Rates
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   S h r a y s i   T a n d o n
-- 2012-05-09T07:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/gillard-says-budget-gives-rba-maximum-room-on-rates.html
Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard said returning the budget to a surplus gives the central
bank “maximum room” to adjust  interest rates  and ease pressure
on manufacturers that have been hobbled by currency gains.  “What we can do as a government is to get fiscal policy in
the right shape to give the Reserve Bank the maximum room to
move should they choose to do so,” Gillard said in an interview
in Canberra today. “That’s been one of the drivers as to why we
want to bring the budget back to surplus.”  The government yesterday forecast a A$1.54 billion ($1.55
billion) surplus for the year starting July 1, ending four years
of deficits. Gillard dumped a corporate tax-cut plan, instead
boosting aid for families as her Labor party tries to reverse
near record-low poll ratings before an election due in 2013.  Australia ’s dollar today slumped to its lowest level since
December as Gillard’s fiscal restraint underscores projections
for the central bank to add to last week’s cut in its benchmark
rate, the highest among major developed economies. Yields on 10-
year government bonds slid to a record low, auguring cheaper
borrowing costs as unemployment is poised to rise.  “This budget will have the Reserve Bank leaning further
toward cutting rates,”  Michael McCarthy , chief market
strategist at CMC Markets  Asia  Pacific Pty in Sydney, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. “It’s quite clear that the
direction for interest rates in Australia remains downward.”  Dollar, Yields  The local currency fell 0.4 percent to $1.0082 as of 4:12
p.m. in Sydney, after touching $1.0054. In July, it hit the
highest level in three decades. Bonds rallied after the budget,
with 10-year yields dropping as much as seven basis points to
3.35 percent.  Gillard, the nation’s first female prime minister, is under
pressure to revive parts of the economy not benefiting from the
biggest mining investment boom in more than a century. The
government scrapped plans to reduce company taxes by 1
percentage point, citing a lack of support in parliament, and
said the money would be spent instead on increasing family
benefits and other support for businesses.  The budget handouts are a “sugar hit to try and save  Julia
Gillard ’s leadership,” Joe Hockey, the opposition’s Treasury
spokesman, said in an Australian Broadcasting Corp. interview
today. “From our perspective and the Australian people, many
will be bewildered what this budget is meant to deliver.”  The budget requires passage by parliament, where Labor
lacks an outright majority.  Deficit Ratio  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said yesterday the government will
reduce spending for the first time in at least 42 years in the
12 months starting July 1. Expenditures are forecast to fall to
A$364.2 billion next fiscal year, the first drop in figures
dating back to 1971. The A$44.4 billion deficit this year is the
third-largest on record and 3 percent of gross domestic product.  Signs of slowing growth have prompted the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia to lower its benchmark three times since Nov. 1. RBA
Governor  Glenn Stevens  last week enacted a half-percentage-point
reduction, the biggest in three years, spurring banks to lower
 mortgage rates .  Gillard is faced with a two-speed economy -- a phrase the
RBA uses to distinguish resource-rich regions in the north and
west that are powering growth and hiring workers, from
struggling tourism, manufacturing and retail industries across
the south and east.  Unemployment to Rise  A government report tomorrow will show the  unemployment
rate  rose in April to a seven-month high of 5.3 percent,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The Treasury
yesterday forecast the rate at 5.5 percent over the next two
years. It projected economic growth at 3.25 percent in the 12
months beginning July 1, slowing to 3 percent the following
year.  Traders are forecasting a 54 percent chance the RBA rate
will drop to a record 2.75 percent by October, according to
swaps data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gillard, whose minority government relies on independent
lawmakers and the Greens party to legislate, said companies need
agility and innovation to cope with the economy’s structural
change and prosper in an era of an elevated  exchange rate .  “We can be a country that has strong manufacturing,”
Gillard, 50, said in the interview in parliament house. “It
does mean we have to do things differently. We have to drive
ourselves up the value chain. We’ve got to make sure the things
we’re doing in manufacturing are so valuable in the eyes of the
world that the strong dollar is not making that impossible for
us. We will continue to be a country that makes cars.”  Double-Edged  While the currency’s strength helps contain inflation by
making imports cheaper, it hurts exporters by making their
products more expensive relative to overseas competitors.  “The Australian dollar is one of the most highly traded
currencies around,” Finance Minister  Penny Wong  said in an
interview in Canberra today. “The market is seeing the economy
has been strong and also recognizing our proximity to Asia.
Certainly the engine house of global growth will be in the Asian
region and obviously we’re well positioned in that.”  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , the country’s largest steel producer,
in August shuttered its export division.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
General Motors Co. have cut jobs in Australia this year.  Labor-market weakness is taking a political toll on
Gillard, who withstood a leadership challenge from predecessor
 Kevin Rudd  in February. Labor trails opposition leader  Tony Abbott ’s coalition by 18 percentage points, according to a
Newspoll survey published in the Australian newspaper on May 1.  Top Ratings  “We’re located in the growth region of the world, people
view our currency in part as a proxy for what’s happening in our
region, so that puts upwards pressure on the value of the
dollar,” Gillard said. “Our economic fundamentals are strong
so people are saying we’re increasingly viewed as a safe-haven
currency.”  Moody’s Investors Service Vice President Steven Hess said
Australia’s Aaa rating with a stable outlook remains intact.
Kyran Curry, an analyst at  Standard & Poor’s , said that while
there’s no immediate impact Australia’s AAA rating, the strategy
relies on “an accommodative economic outlook that remains
highly uncertain.”  The budget leaves “monetary policy to focus on near-term
demand management of the economy,” Swan said in the treasurer’s
traditional post-budget address to the Press Club in Canberra.  Projected surpluses through 2016 are driven by A$33.6
billion in savings, including A$5.4 billion from defense over
four years and A$2.9 billion from the deferral of an increase in
overseas aid by a year. The budget will also reduce tax breaks
on pensions for higher income earners and tighten pharmaceutical
benefits to lower costs.  Carbon Tax  A tax on profits from iron ore and coal, which won Senate
approval in March and takes effect July 1, will reap about A$6.5
billion in revenue over two years from companies including  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group, government estimates show.  The government also expects to raise A$24.7 billion in four
years from a levy on  carbon emissions  coming into effect July 1,
as policy makers seek to reduce pollution and spur investment in
cleaner energy.  The budget “is ambitious for Commonwealth finances but
lacks vision for the broader economy,” Peter Anderson, chief
executive officer of the Australian Chamber of Commerce and
Industry, said in a statement. “The decision to abandon the
company tax cut is dripping with politics and a low blow to the
business sector given that the quid pro quo mining tax has
already been legislated.”  As  Europe  faces years of fiscal austerity, Australia’s
budget surplus would make it one of the first developed nations
to emerge from an era of red ink caused by the worldwide
financial crisis that started in 2008.  “We’ve all just lived through the biggest economic
meltdown since the Great Depression,” Gillard said, when asked
why her government has low poll ratings. “While Australia has
largely dodged that bullet -- we didn’t have a recession, for
example -- it has had an impact on people. We’re a government
with a big reform agenda. I’m not surprised there’s some
nervousness in the community.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Shraysi Tandon in Sydney at 
 standon14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  