-- Glaxo to Begin Hostile Offer for Human Genome Sciences
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2012-05-09T20:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/glaxo-to-begin-hostile-offer-for-human-genome-sciences.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  will begin a
hostile $2.6 billion tender offer this week for  Human Genome 
Sciences Inc. after the U.S. company, its partner on the
Benlysta drug for lupus, rebuffed a takeover approach.  Glaxo will offer $13 a share in cash, or 81 percent more
than Human Genome’s closing price on April 18, the London-based
drugmaker said in a statement today. Rockville, Maryland-based
Human Genome announced April 19 that Glaxo had offered to buy
the company for that price. Human Genome today reiterated that
the offer was too low and that it’s reviewing alternatives.  Glaxo, which is developing two other medicines with Human
Genome, said it won’t participate in the review, in part because
the U.K. company wants Human Genome shareholders to know that
it’s committed to proceeding with the offer. It’s unlikely that
another potential acquirer will bid for the company, said Rajesh Varma, who helps manage 5 billion euros ($6.6 billion) for Human
Genome shareholder DNCA Finance SA in Paris.  “It will probably be a long, drawn-out story,” Varma
said.  Glaxo’s bid is part of a wave of takeover activity in the
pharmaceutical industry as drugmakers seek new products.  Roche
Holding AG (ROG)  made a hostile offer for Illumina Inc. in January,
and abandoned it last month.  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  agreed last month
to buy Ardea Biosciences Inc. for $1.3 billion.  Share Slide  The Glaxo offer became public last month after Human Genome
shares slid  76 percent  from their 2011 peak. Sales growth for
Benlysta, Human Genome’s first drug on the market, has
disappointed investors, and the company may not become
profitable for years.  “To take part in a strategic review of the target company
is only going to result in the price going up,” said Savvas Neophytou, an analyst at Panmure Gordon in  London . Glaxo “must
have decided whatever they are offering is adequate and covered
by the assets that are visible to them.” He has a hold rating
on Glaxo shares.  Human Genome said today it will review the offer and make a
recommendation to shareholders within 10 business days of when
Glaxo begins it, according to a statement.  Human Genome fell less than 1 percent to $14.59 at 4 p.m.
 New York  time. Glaxo fell less than 1 percent to 1,410 pence in
London.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, declined to comment
beyond the statement, a spokeswoman said.  Deal Value  The offer by Glaxo values Human Genome at about 11 times
estimated 2012 sales. Acquirers paid a median of 41 times sales
for biotech companies in the past year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg on acquisitions of $100 million or more.  The four weeks that have passed since Glaxo made its offer
on April 11, together with the 20 business days that the tender
offer must remain open, gives Human Genome enough time to
complete a review of its options, Glaxo said.  “Shareholders should have the opportunity to decide for
themselves on the merits of the offer,” Glaxo said. The U.K.
drugmaker prefers friendly negotiations, and is willing to meet
with Human Genome at any time, Glaxo said.  Any other bidder would only receive half of the revenue
from Benlysta sales that Human Genome receives, according to the
company. The two share profits equally, and first-quarter sales
were 9 million pounds ($14.5 million). Glaxo’s hostile bid may
hurt efforts to boost Benlysta revenue, Barclays Capital
analysts wrote in a note to investors.  Benlysta’s Future  “In the case of a failed tender by GSK, it is hard to
imagine how these two partners can collaborate effectively in
the future,” the analysts said. “More uncertainty awaits
Benlysta in an already difficult launch.”  The companies also are collaborating on two experimental
medicines that are in late-stage testing: albiglutide for
diabetes and darapladib for hardening of the arteries. Glaxo
Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty  said in February that
albiglutide was “very, very promising.”  Glaxo has shared with Human Genome “limited additional
clinical information” on the two drugs to reassure Human Genome
that Glaxo wasn’t withholding any key information, according to
today’s statement.  Human Genome has the right to receive 10 percent in
royalties from sales of darapladib and 5 percent of sales in
albiglutide.  Glaxo’s bid is “full and fair,” and allows Human Genome
shareholders to sell immediately, without the risk that failure
of the experimental drugs will hurt the stock price, the company
said today. Buying Human Genome would give Glaxo all of the
revenue from Benlysta, instead of the current 50-50 split.  Simplifying Relationship  Simplifying the relationship on Benlysta is the main reason
Glaxo wants to make the purchase, Witty said last month.  Human Genome rejected the bid last month partly out of
concern for stockholders who bought shares at an average price
that’s higher than the offer, two people with knowledge of the
matter said at the time. All but three of the 25 largest
shareholders acquired stock at a higher average price, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the talks are private.  Human Genome hired Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Credit Suisse
Securities (USA) LLC as financial advisers and Skadden Arps
Slate Meagher & Flom LLP and DLA Piper LLP as legal counsel, the
company said last month.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are acting as financial
advisers to Glaxo, and Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton and
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz are providing legal advice, Glaxo
said in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  