-- Goldman Sachs Director Johnson, 2011 Pay Win ISS Approval
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-05-09T15:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/goldman-sachs-director-johnson-2011-pay-win-iss-approval.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s longest-
serving director and compensation committee chairman, James A. Johnson, should be re-elected to the board at the May 24 annual
meeting and the company’s 2011 compensation plan should be
approved, ISS Proxy Advisory Services USA told shareholders.  “In the absence of immediate concerns, we are not
recommending a vote against Mr. Johnson at this time,” the
proxy advisory firm wrote in its annual report on New York-based
Goldman Sachs, released today. “However, we are highlighting
his nomination as a contentious issue and will monitor the vote
results.”  Ruane, Cunniff & Goldfarb Inc., a New York investment firm
that helps oversee $15 billion, including the $5.7 billion
 Sequoia Fund Inc. (SEQUX) , has publicly opposed Johnson’s re-election to
Goldman Sachs’s board this year. The company, whose co-founder
was a friend of billionaire  Warren Buffett , criticized Johnson’s
role in “egregious corporate governance debacles” in an April
18  letter  posted on its website.  The Goldman Sachs board recommended that shareholders re-
elect Johnson, who was approved last year with 95.5 percent of
the vote.  “He has served them well since 1999 and will continue to
do so,”  David Wells , a company spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement on April 19.  Goldman Sachs’s executive-compensation plan was endorsed
this year by ISS, which advised shareholders to vote against the
company’s pay package a year ago.  ‘Reasonably Aligned’  The firm awarded Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein $12.4 million for his 2011 performance, a 35
percent cut from a year earlier as profit and the stock price
fell. The package includes a $3 million cash bonus, $7 million
in restricted stock and a $2 million salary.  “CEO pay and performance appear to be reasonably aligned
on a long-term basis at this time,” ISS said.  The percentage of Goldman Sachs’s shareholders who cast
non-binding ballots in favor of the company’s compensation plan
fell to 73 percent last year from 96 percent a year earlier. The
board almost doubled Blankfein’s pay for 2010 even as profit
declined and the stock price was little changed. ISS, in its
opposition to the plan, cited a “pay-for-performance
disconnect.”  The compensation plan at  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank by assets, was rejected by most of the lender’s
shareholders at the company’s annual meeting last month. The
board and senior management will “consult with representative
shareholders to understand their concerns,” New York-based
Citigroup said.  Cumulative Voting  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, fell
46 percent  last year  in New York trading as  profit  dropped 47
percent, the worst performance since 2008. The company’s
compensation committee, which decides how much to pay top
executives, has been led by Johnson as long as Goldman Sachs has
been a public company.  “We engaged with many of our shareholders in advance of
and following our 2011 annual meeting of shareholders in order
to gain further insight and understanding into their views on
our executive-compensation program, particularly as expressed
through the advisory vote,” the company said in the proxy.  ISS advised shareholders to vote in favor of two proposals
that Goldman Sachs’s board has opposed this year.  One would provide shareholders with so-called cumulative
voting, which permits investors to withhold votes from certain
director nominees in order to cast multiple ballots for others.
The other would require the bank’s named executive officers to
retain at least 75 percent of their stock for at least three
years after leaving the firm.  Similar proposals failed at last year’s annual meeting,
with cumulative voting receiving 25.6 percent of the vote and a
proposal requiring stock retention winning 20.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  