-- Gourmet Food Trucks Fight Inspectors’ Perceptions
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-05-09T17:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/gourmet-food-trucks-fight-inspectors-perceptions.html
Porc Mobile  was born when Josh
Saltzman pooled money to buy a white mail truck and convert it
into a roving kitchen, dishing out barbecue and baguettes topped
with goat cheese on  Washington ’s city streets.  While customers flock, so has the health department: six
times since beginning operations last year, Saltzman said.
Inspectors often arrive unannounced during the lunch rush,
targeting food trucks because they’re so visible, he said.  “It’s crazy,” said Saltzman, 25, whose truck has three
sinks, a hand-washing station and hot water. “There’s a
misperception about these old model of roach coaches.”  The new model being set by Porc Mobile in Washington and
Rickshaw Dumpling Bar in New York has moved beyond hot dogs and
ice cream to miso soup, lobster rolls and crepes. Mobile food-
preparation businesses increased 15 percent over five years to
make up 37 percent of the $1.4 billion of U.S. street vending
revenue in 2011, according to researcher IBISWorld Inc.  “They’ve grown aggressively,” said  Nima Samadi , a senior
analyst at  Santa Monica , California-based IBISWorld. “It’s at a
heightened pitch at this point.”  With that increase has come more concern about safe food
handling by regulators and complaints by restaurants without
wheels.  Varied Responses  New York is weighing letter grades that reflect inspection
histories, and  Boston  now requires healthier menu items to be
sold. A proposal in Washington to mandate shorter operating
hours than restaurants at night has sparked a petition drive in
protest, and  California  lawmakers faced a backlash in March over
a pitch to ban roving eateries near schools in an effort to
prevent children from buying less nutritious food.  “The food truck craze hit with some serious power, and
cities are scrambling to respond,” Saltzman said.  Food trucks are multiplying as a sluggish economy has
diners looking for deals and social media lets consumers track
the eateries’ locations online, according to an August 2011
report by IBISWorld. The trucks can cost $40,000 or more and may
feature tools found in traditional restaurants, such as
certified kitchen equipment. They may have hot water heaters,
employees trained in safe food handling, and menu preparation at
off-site commissaries to reduce the risk of contamination.  ‘Big Illegal Problem’  “We need more consistency across state jurisdictions,”
Susan Vaughn Grooters, director of research and education at
Chicago-based  STOP Foodborne Illness , an advocacy group, said in
an interview. “You have to worry about cross contamination.
Restaurants have access to working bathrooms and food
preparation. On a food truck, it’s limited.”  In Los Angeles County, sickness linked to food trucks and
hot carts has risen to 33 illnesses in 2011 from 21 in 2009,
according to the  Public Health Department . Those numbers likely
are underreported, Terrance Powell, director of the bureau, said
in an interview.  The county has 13 inspectors to oversee mobile food
facilities, of which 2,428 are trucks offering prepared or
gourmet food, and those are just the trucks the county knows.  “We see a definite trend that’s concerning,” Powell said.
“Candidly, we have a pretty big illegal problem here.”  About 13 percent of the problems found in Los Angeles
County on food trucks and carts that served hot food in 2011
were critical violations most closely associated with foodborne
illness, according to county’s health department data. High-risk
violations include inadequate temperatures for holding hot food
items, vermin and cross contamination.  Food Safety  About 40 percent of the 3,218 high-risk food trucks and
carts -- which are those that handle potentially hazardous fare
and display letter grades -- were inspected in 2011. The most-
cited violations include unapproved food equipment, improper
food storage and vermin.  New York  City has about 120 to 140 inspectors for almost
20,000 licensed mobile food vendors, which includes food trucks.
In 2011, 7,247 violations were issued. The most frequent
citations related to food safety included not holding cold items
at proper temperatures and inadequate hand washing facilities,
Chanel Caraway, a spokeswoman for the city’s health department,
said in an e-mail. New York City’s Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  is
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent company
of Bloomberg News.  “The health department inspects mobile food carts and
trucks to promote compliance with food safety regulations,”
Caraway said. “These inspections check for virtually the same
food safety requirements as those required of restaurants and
carts and trucks are issued violations for not meeting
regulations.”  Letter Grades  Owners of the mobile eateries say the public is unaware how
sophisticated and safe the operations have become, and some
welcome letter grading as a way to reassure wary consumers.  “We’re extremely concerned about  food safety ,” David
Weber, co-founder of Rickshaw Dumpling Bar and president of the
 New York City Food Truck Association , which represents 40
vendors, said in an interview.  Lawmakers say they are too. San Diego County officials in
February backed a plan that may lead to letter grades on food
trucks. The requirement is needed even though critics argued
such a scoring system will amount to an unnecessary regulation,
Ron Roberts, a county supervisor, said in an interview.  “I was concerned someone would get really sick and it
would hurt the whole industry,” said Roberts, who championed
the grades. “We want to protect the public.”  Famous All Over  In Washington, D.C., city officials are reviewing public
comments on a proposal to set restrictions on trucks.  “The District’s primary goal in this area is to protect
the health and safety of consumers who patronize food
establishments, while providing reasonable rules to enable
business owners/operators to understand their rights and
responsibilities,” Doxie McCoy, a spokeswoman for Mayor Vincent
Gray, said in an e-mail.  New York is also weighing letter grades for trucks, which
already are mandated on restaurants in the city. A proposal was
introduced in 2011 and is likely to be considered this year,
Jose Peralta, a New York state senator seeking the truck grades,
said in an interview.  “The  New York City  vendor is famous all over the world,”
Peralta said. “Now it will be famous for its safety and
cleanliness.”  In California, state assembly member William Monning, a
Democrat, introduced a bill this year to keep food trucks away
from schools to ensure the operations don’t interfere with
healthier school lunches mandated by U.S. law. The proposal was
 dropped  in March after opposition from the industry.  ‘It’s Overkill’  Food trucks are being singled out because restaurants see
them as competition, Baylen Linnekin, executive director of  Keep
Food Legal , a grassroots non-profit fighting against local and
federal restrictions on food, said in an interview.  “The restaurant associations are powerful,” he said.
“Cities tend to discriminate against trucks because they’re
less powerful.”  Street vending revenue -- partly because of gourmet food
trucks -- jumped an estimated 9.8 percent last year, following a
13 percent increase in 2010, according to IBISWorld data.  Daniel Conway, a spokesman for the  California Restaurant
Association , said members are not trying to hamper the success
of food trucks. Regulation is needed to ensure there’s a level
playing field, he said.  Saltzman, who helped start Porc Mobile, which stands for
Purveyors of Rolling Cuisine, said there’s room for all. The
success of his mobile venture has led him and co-owners to open
a brick-and-mortar restaurant, Kangaroo Boxing Club, later this
year in Washington.  He said he’s hoping it will be less stressful.  “I’ve been in the restaurant industry almost all my life,
and I’ve never, ever had to go through the type of inspections I
have had to with my food truck,” he said. “It’s overkill.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  