-- Governments Belatedly Put Pension Deficits on Their Books
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-05-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/governments-belatedly-put-pension-deficits-on-their-books.html
The Sisyphean task of funding U.S.
state and local-government retirement plans, a hidden risk for
municipal-bond investors, will get even more daunting under
proposed new accounting rules.  Pensions in Illinois,  New Jersey ,  Indiana  and  Kentucky  may
have less than 30 percent of the assets needed to cover promised
benefits under the measure, according to data from the Boston
College Center for Retirement Research. The changes, which take
effect starting in June 2013, will alter how liabilities are
calculated and how assets are reported on financial statements.  “People are going to be really surprised,” Matt Fabian,
managing director with Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal
Market Advisors, said by telephone. “It’s one of the few things
out there that could precipitate a major change in investor
demand.”  The rules may raise government costs in the $3.7 trillion
municipal market as investors demand more yield to compensate
for higher pension risk and possibly lower ratings.  Illinois 
became Moody’s Investors Service’s lowest-rated state in January
because it hadn’t dealt with its underfunded pensions.  Twenty-year munis yield 3.81 percent, close to the lowest
since 1967, according to a Bond Buyer  index . The gauge touched
3.6 percent in January, the lowest since 3.4 percent in 1967.  Pushing Up Costs  The need for higher contributions can add to the returns
investors require, according to the Boston College center.  “The market is starting to look much closer at what
governments are doing to address the pension problems,” said
Jean-Pierre Aubry, assistant director of state and local
research at the center, in an interview. “Contributions to
pensions matter to bondholders.”  A center report in February 2011 showed pension costs as a
proportion of budgets rose to 3.8 percent in 2008 from 3 percent
in 2005. The effect may increase as unfunded liabilities grow.  The changes may force government officials to cut benefits
or spend more to cover what they’ve promised, Fabian said. That
may lower funding for other programs or prompt tax increases.  “The numbers are going to look worse,” Joe Pangallozzi, a
managing director and analyst with  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s fixed-income
group in Plainsboro, New Jersey, said by telephone. “Now that
you have these numbers, what are you going to do to put the
system on a solid footing?”  Returns Rebounding  Assets held by U.S. public pensions are starting to show a
turnaround in returns that is raising the funding level for
some. Retirement plans ended the first quarter with a median
gain of 7.5 percent on investments, the best performance since
2010, as stocks and real estate boosted the results, Wilshire
Associates has said. State and local governments have spent the
past three years dealing with stagnant revenue and rising costs
after recovering from the longest recession since the 1930s.  The Governmental Accounting Standards Board, which decides
how states and municipalities must keep their books, is set to
 issue the new rules  next month. Any decisions made so far are
“tentative and subject to change,” John Pappas, a spokesman
for the Norwalk, Connecticut-based organization, said by e-mail.
Pensions would begin using the rules for fiscal years starting
after June 15, 2013, and employers such as school districts
would follow a year later.  As currently set up, the changes would force pensions and
municipalities to report the portion of current and future
retiree obligations that exceed projected assets as a liability
on balance sheets for the first time.  Widening Gaps  The new method also may widen the gap between assets and
promised benefits by applying a lower discount to the uncovered
portion. The rules would tie the measure to a 30-year, AA rated
municipal bond, rather than a typically higher expected
investment return.  The average AA+ municipal bond yields about 4.2 percent for
30-year maturities, according to a Bloomberg Fair Value  index .
The Teachers’ Retirement System of Illinois has an assumed rate
of annual return on assets of 8.5 percent, which is lower than
its average of 9.3 percent each year during the past three
decades, Dave Urbanek, a fund spokesman, said by telephone.  Under the new rules, the so-called funded ratio would fall
to 53 percent from 77 percent for 126 plans, taken as a group,
according to a November 2011 study from the Boston College
center. The measure gauges assets as a proportion of obligations
and was applied to both state and local pensions.  May Surprise Officials  “The liability will appear to be larger than it has in the
past,” Cathie Eitelberg, national public-sector market director
for New York-based Segal Co., a pension consultant, said in a
telephone interview. “There could be some very surprised
elected officials.”  Municipal-bond investors will have two numbers to look at
rather than one, Eitelberg said. Currently, they get a liability
item in footnotes of financial statements. Under the new rules,
governments will have the figures listed on a balance sheet and
an explanation of what is being done to address it, she said.  Illinois, which already has the U.S. state pensions with
the widest gaps between assets and promised benefits, will see
two of its funds fall to the lowest among the 126 plans studied
by the Boston College center. The state Teachers system’s funded
ratio will drop to about 18 percent, the lowest level in the
study, from 48 percent, and the State Employees’ Retirement
System of Illinois will sink to 22 percent from 46 percent,
ranking second.  Funding Failure  The Illinois Teachers’ plan has lost ground because the
Legislature failed to fund state pensions at required levels.
The $34.6 billion system got $10 billion less from lawmakers
than it needed from 1970 to 2011, said Urbanek, the spokesman.  “Changing accounting rules so the underfunded liability
gets higher is like saying you’re stirring your coffee in the
wrong direction,” Urbanek said. “We already know we’re the
worst in the nation.”  Governor  Pat Quinn , a Democrat, has  proposed changes  that
may cut the unfunded liability of state plans by boosting worker
contributions, lowering cost-of-living increases and raising the
retirement age to 67.  New Jersey’s Public Employees’ Retirement System will see
its funded ratio drop to about 30 percent from 62 percent, while
the New Jersey Teachers’ Pension & Annuity Fund will fall from
almost 58 percent to about 25 percent, according to the Boston
College study released in November.  Changes Made  Without changes Governor  Chris Christie  pushed through last
year, the state’s unfunded liability for retirees would be $20
billion higher, according to  Andrew Pratt , a state Treasury
Department spokesman. The Republican’s overhaul raised employee
payments and the minimum  retirement age  for most workers.  “Governor Christie has put the pensions on course for
solvency without draining resources needed for schools,
transportation and aid to the poor and disabled,” Pratt said by
e-mail. “Taxpayers will be asked to pay less for government
pensions, and public employees have a far greater certainty of a
secure retirement.”  Pensions in Washington,  Minnesota ,  Pennsylvania  and  Texas 
may see funding levels worsen the most under the new accounting
rules, according to data from the Boston College center. Two
plans for teachers run by the state of Washington would fall to
about 40 percent from almost 93 percent.  The new public disclosure requirement may “exacerbate”
the unfunded liability of some plans,  Washington  Treasurer James McIntire said by telephone. He said he doesn’t expect the rules
to change how the gaps are dealt with in his state, which has
taken steps to improve asset levels.  “It doesn’t change the amount of money you put into your
pension plans and it doesn’t change what you owe,” he said.
“It just changes how you value it for reporting purposes.”  Following are pending deals:  CALIFORNIA HEALTH FACILITIES FINANCING AUTHORITY plans to
issue $415 million of tax-exempt revenue bonds as soon as
tomorrow. Proceeds will help renovate Stanford Hospital &
Clinics facilities and refinance debt sold in 2003, according to
sale documents. Morgan Stanley will lead the marketing for the
issue. Moody’s rates the bonds Aa3, its fourth-highest grade.
(Added May 9)  OKLAHOMA DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY is set to issue $190
million of tax-exempt revenue bonds as soon as today on behalf
of St. John Health System. Proceeds will help finance the
acquisition of a hospital facility and refinance debt sold in
1999, according to offering documents. Goldman Sachs & Co. and
Citigroup Inc. are the underwriters.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the
bonds A, sixth-highest. (Added May 9)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  