-- Greece Euro-Exit Debate Goes Public
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-05-09T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/greek-euro-exit-talk-seeps-into-public-as-officials-air-doubts.html
From the monetary fortress of the
 European Central Bank  to the pro-European duchy of Luxembourg,
policy makers are beginning to air their doubts that  Greece  can
stay in the euro.  Post-election tumult in Athens has put the once-taboo
subject of an exit from the 17-country currency union on the
agenda, lifting the veil on possible scenario planning afoot
behind the scenes.  “If Greece decides not to stay in the euro zone, we cannot
force Greece,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said
at a conference sponsored by German broadcaster WDR in Brussels
yesterday. “They will decide whether to stay in the euro zone
or not.”  After 386 billion euros ($499 billion) in aid pledges for
Greece, Ireland and Portugal, 214 billion euros in ECB bond
purchases and another trillion euros in low-interest loans for
banks, plus 17 high-level crisis summits, Greece’s political
chaos thrust  Europe  into a perilous new phase.  The world is witnessing an “important moment in European
Union history, a moment of crisis,” EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said in Brussels on the 62nd anniversary of the
declaration by Robert Schuman, then  France ’s foreign minister,
that launched postwar European integration.  Euro’s Drop  The euro fell for the eighth day as it dawned on investors
that Greek voters’ revolt against austerity, and not the victory
of Socialist Francois Hollande in France, was the more
significant of the two national elections in the EU on May 6.  Bonds of at-risk countries have suffered since the
balloting.  Spain ’s extra 10-year yield over German levels
widened to 456 basis points from 415 at the end of last week.
 Italy ’s widened to 408 basis points from 385 over the same
timespan. The euro bought $1.2950 at 6:15 p.m. in Brussels,
bringing its eight-day loss to 2.4 percent.  “Politically speaking, Greece is already out of the euro
zone,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign
Strategy in London, said in an e-mailed note. “The only
question is about the timing and disorderliness of its exit.  The Greek parties running on an austerity-for-rescue
platform took one-third of the vote. Top vote getter Antonis Samaras failed to assemble a government, throwing in the towel
after a few hours. Second-place finisher Alexis Tsipras of the
Syriza party began coalition talks with an ultimatum to would-be
partners to renounce support for the bailout.  ‘Catastrophic Uncertainty’  The response outside  Athens  left little room for maneuver.
Schaeuble said that fiddling with the bailout terms would
unleash ‘‘catastrophic uncertainty’’ in financial markets, and
the central bank’s verdict came from his former deputy,  Joerg Asmussen .  ‘‘Greece has to be aware that there is no alternative to
the agreed consolidation program if it wants to remain a member
of the euro zone,’’ Asmussen, who last year moved from the
German Finance Ministry to the ECB board, told  Handelsblatt  in
an interview published yesterday.  With polls showing roughly the same proportion of Greeks
wanting to stay in monetary union while opposing  austerity , the
haggling over the future government and possible elections next
month put the country before two incompatible options.  ‘Very Painful’  ‘‘If 80 percent of Greeks want to stay in the euro, then I
think they have to support parties that are in favor of this
policy of staying in the euro,’’ Luxembourg Foreign Minister
Jean Asselborn said at the Brussels conference. Otherwise
‘‘comes the point where Greece unfortunately has squandered the
opportunity and that will be very, very painful for the
people.’’  European treaties label the euro ‘‘irrevocable’’ and
provide no legal procedure for a country to leave or be thrown
out. A December 2009 study by the ECB’s legal department deemed
an ouster or departure ‘‘so challenging, conceptually, legally
and practically, that its likelihood is close to zero.’’  Europe’s crisis managers put the odds at zero until last
November, when German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  turned a planned Greek referendum on
austerity into an in-or-out vote on Greece’s euro future.  The referendum was dropped and the Greek leader who mooted
it,  George Papandreou , was out within days. A nonpartisan
government led by former ECB Vice President  Lucas Papademos  took
over. Unlike Italy, which got a technocratic government at the
same time, Greek politicians gambled on early elections.  Re-Vote  With the coalition talks in Athens at risk of stalemating,
another vote may come as soon as next month.  Merkel’s first finance minister,  Peer Steinbrueck ,
questioned whether a new election would yield a functioning
government with the mandate to deliver the additional savings
demanded by international donors.  Greece may be mired in ‘‘a fragile, virtually paralyzed
situation for months,” Steinbrueck, a potential challenger to
Merkel in  Germany ’s 2013 election, said at the Brussels
conference.  The next Greek ballot “will be a referendum on continued
euro membership,” said  John Stopford , co-head of fixed income
and currency in  London  at Investec Asset Management, which
oversees about $90 billion. “As last week’s election shows,
it’s going to be a close-run thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  