-- Greeks May Hold $510 Billion Trump Card in Renegotiation
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-05-10T10:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/greeks-may-hold-510-billion-trump-card-in-renegotiation.html
Greece’s next government may hold a
trump card worth more than $510 billion if it heeds voters’
demands to renegotiate its bailout with the European Union.  The nation owes about 400 billion euros ($517 billion) to
private bondholders, public bodies such as the  International
Monetary Fund  and  European Central Bank , and other creditors,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About 252 billion euros
of that’s due to official organizations that used their status
to avoid the losses suffered by ordinary bondholders when Greece
restructured its debt two months ago.  Greek voters are demanding their leaders renegotiate the
terms of rescue packages that have imposed unprecedented
austerity on the country since 2010. One potential prime
minister, Syriza party leader Alexis Tsipras, has pledged to
tear up the EU-led bailout agreement. With Greece owing a sum
roughly equal to  Switzerland ’s economy, the fallout for
taxpayers could be calamitous if the country walks away.  “Greece has got some strong cards to persuade them to go
easy on austerity,” said  John Whittaker , an economist at
 Lancaster University Management School  in  England . “Everyone
fears a Greek departure from the euro because they’ll lose money
and lose political capital.”  Euro Integration  European governments have poured money into Greece since
its first rescue was agreed to in April 2010 in a bid to keep the
country in the euro and prove that monetary union, a symbol of
European post-war integration, is irrevocable.  After receipt of a 7.5 billion-euro tranche in March,
Greece now owes other countries more than 80 billion euros in
bailout funds. The European Financial Stability Facility said
4.2 billion euros of rescue cash will be disbursed to the nation
today.  The ECB also stands to lose much if Greece walks away from
its obligations. First, the central bank bought about 50 billion
euros of the government’s bonds to push down yields and help the
nation retain access to the  capital markets .  In addition, the ECB’s so-called Target2 system -- which
tallies trade imbalances between the 17 national central banks
using the single currency -- indicates that the Bank of Greece
owes its counterparts 104 billion euros, according to Whittaker.  The Athens-based central bank has also issued 18 billion
euros more banknotes than the size of its economy would indicate
as Greeks tuck bills under their mattress or spirit them out of
the country, Whittaker said. That would bring Greece’s total
liability to the ECB to 172 billion euros.  ‘Meaningful Hit’  The ECB “would have to do a capital call on the rest of
the members if there was a default,” said Darren Williams,
chief European economist at AllianceBernstein Holding LP in
 London , which manages about $420 billion. “It would be a
meaningful hit. So, yes, the Greeks do have some leverage.”  European politicians are openly discussing the possibility
that Greece will leave the euro after voters flocked to anti-
bailout parties in May 6 elections. Five of the seven parties in
parliament reject the packages, with Tsipras condemning them as
a “memorandum of barbarity.”  Political parties differ on exactly what terms of the
rescue agreement should be renegotiated. New Democracy and
Pasok, which have alternated power since 1974 and put in place
this year’s bailout, are seeking to ease Greece’s current
international-aid obligations.  On the other side of the debate, Tsipras’s Syriza party
wants to renege on all  Greece ’s bailout commitments. As it
stands, the composition of the next government is far from
certain, meaning new elections may be necessary next month.  Election Risk  “From a political perspective, there is a considerable
risk that a left-leaning coalition is formed at the next
election with a more explicit mandate to reject the EU/IMF
program,” Credit Suisse Group AG economists including London-
based Yiagos Alexopolous said in an e-mailed note. Their main
scenario is that a national unity government will be formed that
changes part of the bailout program but keeps its “broad
thrust” on track, they wrote.  Greece also has 143 billion euros of bills and bonds
outstanding, Bloomberg data show, taking total liabilities to
395 billion euros.  None of the numbers include money owed by private debtors
including banks. Greek lenders, which are locked out of debt
markets, in January borrowed 73.4 billion euros from the ECB to
fund their operations, the Bank of Greece said May 3. Lenders
typically use  government bonds  and bills as collateral when
borrowing from central banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  