-- Greece Can’t Be Compelled to Stay in the Euro, Schaeuble Says
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-05-09T14:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/greece-can-t-be-compelled-to-stay-in-the-euro-schaeuble-says.html
European governments cannot force
Greece to stay in the euro if Greek citizens decide to leave,
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said.  “They will decide whether to stay in the  euro zone  or
not,” Schaeuble said at a conference sponsored by German
broadcaster WDR in Brussels today. “If Greece decides not to
stay in the euro zone, we cannot force Greece.”  Comments by European Central Bank Executive Board member
Joerg Asmussen in a Handelsblatt interview today were “not
new,” Schaeuble added. Asmussen was cited as saying that Greece
had “no alternative” than to stick to the terms of its bailout
program “if it wants to remain a member of the euro zone.”  Greek political chiefs are struggling to forge a coalition
after May 6 elections called into question the country’s ability
to impose the steps agreed on with international creditors in
return for aid. The risk of Greece leaving the euro by the end
of 2013 has risen to as high as 75 percent,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said
May 7.  Germany  will continue to “show solidarity” with Greece as
long as it sticks to its commitments to revamp the economy, said
Michael Meister, the deputy leader in parliament of  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic Union.  “We assume that Greece, as a precondition for more
solidarity, will continue to work on improving fiscal policy,
competitiveness and growth,” Meister told reporters in Berlin.
“We assume that those carrying responsibility in  Athens  will
live up to their responsibilities.”  Meister said “we are of the opinion that nobody in the
club of euro countries should be shown the door.”  Abide by Rules  Merkel took up the theme without naming Greece, telling
reporters that euro countries “have to abide by the agreed
programs and the agreed rules so the euro area can work.”  The election of Greek political parties that want to
renegotiate bailout terms and the victory of Socialist Francois Hollande as French president are the latest challenges to
confront Merkel 2 1/2 years after the debt crisis first emerged.  Schaeuble, speaking to reporters after the WDR forum, said
that the agreements with  Greece  were decided by the so-called
troika of the ECB, the European Commission and the  International
Monetary Fund . “Any doubt cast on them would immediately
trigger catastrophic uncertainty in the financial market,” he
said.  “There is no lack of solidarity,” Schaeuble said. “But
Greece can’t be spared this consolidation. That is clear and
that’s why the vast majority of Greeks want to stay in the euro
zone, because the Greeks know that the alternatives for Greece
wouldn’t be pleasant.”  Impact on Investment  German investment in Greece may suffer as a result of the
instability, Hans-Peter Keitel, president of the BDI Federation
of German Industries, told a separate briefing in Berlin. The
BDI, which represents companies including  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Siemens
AG (SIE) , said in July that German investment in Greece had a
potential value of 50 billion euros ($65 billion).  “We can’t tell any German entrepreneur what kind of
medium-term investment conditions he can expect there,” Keitel
said. “As long as there are no stable political conditions in
Greece and no commitment to  Europe  that’s unequivocal and clear,
the question of investments in Greece of course is incredibly
difficult.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  