-- Gross Says QE3 Getting Closer as Goldman Sees Easing
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-05-09T07:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/gross-says-qe3-getting-closer-as-goldman-sees-easing.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  and Jan Hatzius at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  say
investors should prepare for additional bond purchases by the
 Federal Reserve  to combat a slowing  U.S. economy .  A decision to buy more debt is “getting closer,” Gross,
who runs Pimco's Total Return Fund, the world’s largest mutual
 fund , wrote on Twitter yesterday. Hatzius, the chief economist
at New York-based Goldman Sachs, predicted in a report the
same day that the Fed will announce additional monetary easing
when it meets in June.  Prospects for a third round of central bank asset
purchases, known as quantitative easing, or QE, increased after
a Labor Department report May 4 showed U.S. employers added
115,000 jobs in April, the smallest gain in six months.
 Europe ’s debt crisis is threatening to slow global growth.
Ten-year Treasury yields fell to 1.81 percent yesterday,
approaching the record low of 1.67 percent set Sept. 23.  “In such an uncertain environment, taking out a bit more
insurance still looks like the sensible choice for U.S. monetary
policy makers,” Hatzius wrote. “We have stuck with our
forecast of some additional monetary easing” at the Fed’s
policy meeting June 19 to June 20.  Bond Purchases  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two
rounds of quantitative easing, known as QE1 and QE2, from 
December 2008 to June 2011. The Fed is also replacing $400
billion of short-term Treasuries in its holdings with longer-
term debt to keep borrowing costs down, under a program
scheduled to end next month.  Policy makers have pledged to keep the target for overnight
bank lending as low as zero until at least late 2014.  Two Fed officials have questioned whether additional easing
will work.  Fed Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said yesterday
that a drop in equity prices is no reason for the central bank
to intervene.  “Markets are manic depressive, they come and go,” Fisher
told reporters when asked if slumping markets and slower-than-
expected employment gains had changed his outlook for Fed
policy. “The key to success here is not further monetary
accommodation.”  Shares Slumping  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell to its lowest level in
two months yesterday.  Fed Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker  said May 7
that much of U.S. unemployment results from structural
weaknesses such as inadequate training that can’t be fixed by
Fed stimulus. The U.S. jobless rate of 8.1 percent is the lowest
in three years.  “Some commentators are urging the Fed to take additional
action as long as the  unemployment rate  remains elevated,”
Lacker said. “But if elevated unemployment reflects largely
fundamental factors rather than insufficient spending, such
stimulus might have little impact on unemployment and instead
just raise the risk of pushing inflation up.”  Lacker votes on monetary policy this year while Fisher does
not.  The U.S. economy is “dreary,” Hatzius wrote.  Gross domestic product slowed to an annual rate of 2.2
percent in the first quarter from 3 percent in the prior three
months, the Commerce Department reported April 27.  Greece Struggling  Politicians in  Greece  struggled to form a new government,
raising concern the nation will abandon the euro as its
currency.  Benchmark 10-year Treasury notes  yielded  1.82 percent today
as of 8:17 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The average over the past decade is 3.83 percent. The 2
percent security due in February 2022 changed hands at 101
18/32.  Low government rates have led investors to look for more
attractive yields outside the sovereign  bond market .  Treasuries have returned 0.6 percent this year, eclipsed by
a 4.8 percent rally for an index of U.S. investment grade and
high-yield company debt, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data.  “Risk  markets  need more ammo if they are to stay up,”
Gross, who is based in  Newport Beach ,  California , wrote on
Twitter.  Gross’ Total Return Fund has returned 4.8 percent this
year,  beating  98 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Pimco is a unit of the Munich-based
insurer  Allianz SE. (ALV)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  