-- Milwaukee Mayor Gets Walker Rematch in Wisconsin Recall
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-05-09T19:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/milwaukee-mayor-gets-walker-rematch-in-wisconsin-recall.html
Milwaukee  Mayor Tom Barrett has had 18
months to ponder his 2010 loss to Wisconsin’s Republican
Governor Scott Walker. In 27 days he’ll get a shot at redemption
-- a rematch in the third recall vote of a state chief executive
in U.S. history.  After more than a year of anti-Walker protests and the
collection of 900,000 signatures to force the June 5 election,
Democratic primary voters yesterday chose Barrett, 58, from a
field of four. The combatants will participate in a four-week
sprint that has already drawn tens of millions of dollars in
out-of-state donations and turned Wisconsin, with 5.7 million
people, into a national battlefield of ideological titans.  “We do not need a leader who will divide us, we need a
leader who will bring us together,” Barrett said in a fist-
shaking victory speech at a downtown Milwaukee hotel. “ Scott
Walker , instead of staying home in Wisconsin and focusing on
creating jobs here, has decided he’s going to be a rock star, a
rock star to the far right in this nation.”  Barrett captured the nomination with about 58 percent of
the vote, followed by former Dane County Executive Kathleen Falk, with 34 percent, according to unofficial results from the
 Associated Press . State Senator Kathleen Vinehout and Secretary
of State Doug La Follette each got less than 10 percent.  Second Chance  For Barrett, who won a third term as Milwaukee’s mayor
April 3, this means a second chance after losing to Walker by
about 125,000 votes in 2010.  Walker spoke to supporters in Waukesha, vowing, “We’re not
going backwards, we’re going forward.”  “The powerful special interests don’t like the fact that I
stood up and got in the way of their firm grip on the taxpayers’
money,” he told a cheering crowd. “I stand with the taxpayers
of this state and I’m going to continue to stand with them.”  The head-to-head campaign began in earnest today in
Barrett’s front yard in Milwaukee, the state’s biggest city by
population, where the mayor and his three primary opponents
pledged unity. Barrett said he expects “30-second drive-by
shootings” in the form of Walker television advertisements.  “He knows he cannot defend his record,” Barrett said of
Walker. Ciara Matthews, a spokeswoman for the governor, said he
looks forward to two scheduled debates “contrasting his record
of success that has laid the foundation for a successful future
against the failed policies” of the mayor. The debates are set
for May 25 and 31.  Focusing on Record  The mayor, at 6 feet 4 inches (1.9 meters) tall, doesn’t
embody the angry protesters who agitated for more than a year
against Walker’s March 2011 enactment of collective-bargaining
restrictions on most public-employee unions.  Barrett, a lawyer whose father, “Big Tom,” sold ditch-
digging equipment, lives in the same west-side Milwaukee
neighborhood of his youth, with his wife, Kris, and four
children. A methodical toiler in the vineyards of Wisconsin
politics, he has served in both houses of the Legislature, won
election five times to Congress and led his hometown as mayor
for the past eight years. His notable losses: two runs for
governor, in the 2002 primary and in 2010.  While Barrett’s campaign themes are job losses and
repairing damage from partisan animosity since Walker used his
Republican legislative majorities to push the union limits,
labor leaders not only supported Falk, they tried to persuade
the mayor not to run.  Barrett’s Persona  “In the 1950s there was a saying, ‘He’s a nice Catholic
boy,” said Mordecai Lee, who teaches government affairs at the
 University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee . “That’s Tom Barrett.”  “He believes the world is good,” said Lee who, like
Barrett, represented Milwaukee’s west side in the Legislature as
a Democrat. “He believes in doing good. He believes that in a
moral universe, right always wins out.”  Walker, 44, started an “ideological civil war,” Barrett
says in campaign appearances, often adding that the governor
“dropped a bomb” with the collective-bargaining restrictions.  After promising to create 250,000 private-sector jobs in
his first term, Walker’s ideological goals took precedence and
contributed to Wisconsin’s losing more jobs than any other state
in the past year, Barrett says, citing federal Labor Statistics
Bureau data.  Barrett spent part of May 7 about 40 miles south of
Milwaukee in the industrial city of Kenosha, campaigning in
cafes, including an 86-year-old diner no wider than two bowling
lanes.  Asking for Support  Coatless and tieless, he squeezed by rusty bar stools and
stopped at crowded booths as people ate piles of eggs, sausage
and bacon. Barrett, politely asking for support “in this crazy
election,” left as quietly as he arrived.  “He’s not by nature strident, abrasive or even partisan,”
said Dick Pas, the Democratic Party chairman in Waukesha County,
which encompasses Milwaukee. “But he is quietly determined.”  Barrett made headlines in August 2009 when he came to the
aid of a woman being assaulted at the  Wisconsin  State Fair in
Milwaukee. His gallantry in her defense earned him a beating
from a man with a tire iron, leaving him with broken teeth and
shattered bones in his right hand. While campaigning he jokes
about his “short-lived boxing career.”  Although Barrett won only 13 of 72 counties when he faced
Walker in 2010, he said in an April 3 interview that there are
now “a lot of people with buyer’s remorse.” That fuels his
belief that Wisconsin is ready for a do-over as well.  “In his view, the November 2010 election was simply an
error and he welcomes the opportunity to right the wrong,” said
Lee, the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee professor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Milwaukee at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  