-- India Stock Futures Decline on Rupee, Greece Concerns
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-05-09T12:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/india-stock-futures-decline-on-rupee-greece-concerns.html
Indian stocks fell, tracking regional
peers, as a weaker rupee fanned concerns the government will
struggle to contain its fiscal deficit and cool inflation, and
as political tension in  Greece  heightened the region’s crisis.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of the world’s largest
refining complex, declined to its lowest since December.  DLF
Ltd. (DLFU) , the largest developer, slid 4.2 percent.  ITC Ltd. (ITC) , the
biggest cigarette company, surged the most in 14 months after
Citigroup Inc. raised its price estimate on the stock.  The BSE  India   Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  slid 0.4 percent to 16,479.58
at close. The gauge has fallen 11 percent from a high on Feb.
21, exceeding the 10 percent drop that some investors regard as
a so-called correction. The index has slid in May three times in
the past four years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The S&P
CNX Nifty Index lost 0.5 percent to 4,974.80.  “Indian markets are slowing going to start pricing in a
possible contagion scenario in  Europe , which could potentially
take the  Nifty (NIFTY)  lower to 4,600 and the rupee to 56-57 rupees a
dollar,” Gaurav Doshi, a portfolio manager at Morgan Stanley
India Financial Services in Mumbai, told Bloomberg UTV. “The
market is aware that the  Reserve Bank of India ’s ability to
intervene is very limited.”  The rupee dropped 1.3 percent to 53.8275 a dollar, and is
within 1 percent of its all-time low of 54.305 set on Dec. 15. A
weak currency increases the cost of oil in a country that
imports about 80 percent of its crude, stoking inflation and
limiting the RBI’s scope to cut rates.  Alexis Tsipras of Greece’s Syriza party told political
rivals they must renounce support for the European Union-led
rescue if there’s to be any chance of forging a coalition.  ‘Rupee Overhang’  The Nifty may reach 4,700 after breaking below its 200-day
average on May 4 for the first time in a year, Indrajit Sen, a
derivatives strategist at  Fortune Financial Services India Ltd. (FFSI) 
in Mumbai, said yesterday. “The rupee will continue to be an
overhang as the  Reserve Bank  of India doesn’t have sufficient
ammunition to intervene in the forex market daily,” he said.  The RBI’s scope to cut borrowing costs further to boost
growth is constrained by the threat of inflation, Ashima Goyal,
a member of the bank’s technical advisory committee, said in an
interview yesterday. The 12-person panel makes recommendations
to Governor Duvvuri Subbarao before scheduled rate decisions.  The Indian parliament yesterday approved Finance Minister
Pranab Mukherjee’s plan for higher taxes to help cut the widest
fiscal deficit among the largest  emerging markets . Mukherjee has
also proposed subsidy curbs to narrow the fiscal  gap  to 5.1
percent of gross domestic product in the year to March 2013,
from 5.9 percent in 2011-2012.  Investor Confidence  Policy reversals, including suspension of plans to allow
overseas retailers to open supermarkets in the country, have
clouded the outlook for investment. Foreigners withdrew a net
$103 million in April from local stocks after remaining buyers
in each of the first three months amid concern a new rule to
curb  tax avoidance  may apply to them. Funds have pulled out a
net  $22.4 million  so far this month.  Mukherjee on May 7 delayed the implementation of the rule
by a year, seeking to salvage investor confidence.  “We need foreign capital and whatever we have been doing
since the beginning of the year will do anything but attract
foreign capital,” Suresh Mahadevan, managing director at UBS
Securities India Pvt., told Bloomberg UTV today. “I don’t see
any catalyst unless the government decides to act.”  Foreigners have still  poured  $8.74 billion into domestic
stocks, helping Sensex to a 6.6 percent advance this year, on
optimism the central bank would ease its monetary policy after
record increases in  interest rates  eroded earnings. Four out of
14, or 29 percent, of Sensex companies posted profits in the
March quarter that trailed analyst estimates, compared with 47
percent in the December quarter.  Protection  India VIX, which measures the cost of protection against
declines in the Nifty index, climbed 4 percent to 23.04, its
highest since March 29. The  BSE 200 Index (BSE200)  lost 0.7 percent. A
total of 853 million shares changed hands on the BSE and NSE
yesterday, 6 percent less than the daily average in the past
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Reliance Industries shed 1.9 percent to 695.1 rupees, its
sixth day of decline. DLF lost 4.2 percent to 181.9 rupees, its
steepest drop since March 22.  ITC rallied 5.7 percent to 239.9 rupees, ending a six-day 8
percent plunge. Citigroup raised the price target on the stock
to 255 rupees from 232 rupees.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
the largest software maker, rose 2.1 percent to 1,225.55 2
rupees.  Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL) , the nation’s second-largest
aluminum producer, climbed 0.9 percent to 118.8 rupees after it
posted a better-than-expected fourth-quarter profit as higher
sales and copper-refining fees compensated for lower prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  