-- India Steps Up Plan to Lure $75 Billion in Investments
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2012-05-09T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/india-steps-up-plan-to-lure-75-billion-in-investments.html
India widened efforts to lure $75
billion to its capital markets to include investors in at least
10 countries from the U.S. to  Russia , signaling increased urgency
among policy makers to bolster growth and stem the rupee’s drop.  Government and central bank officials will embark next
month on an overseas trip to woo foreign asset managers and
high-net worth investors, Thomas Mathew, joint-secretary for
capital markets in the  finance ministry , said in an interview in
 New Delhi . The tour, aimed at stoking demand for equities and
bonds, had initially been limited to the  Middle East .  India is grappling with the slowest economic expansion
since 2009 and a  record current-account shortfall  that has made
the rupee the worst performing Asian currency in the past three
months. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , already beset by
corruption scandals, this month was forced to retreat from a
proposed tax amendment in a bid to salvage investor confidence.  “ India  has a lot of house-made problems, especially on the
political side,” Juergen Maier, a fund manager at Raiffeisen
Capital Management who has about $1.1 billion in emerging-market
assets, said in a telephone interview from Vienna. “My outlook
on India has grown increasingly negative over the last two years
because of its political problems.”  The proposed investment target, which is for a two-year
timeframe, appears “ambitious,” said Neelakantan Sethuram Iyer, chief investment officer of Daiwa Asset Management (India)
Pvt. in Mumbai.  ‘High Time’  Foreigners have only invested about 6.26 trillion rupees
($117 billion) in stocks and bonds since they were allowed into
the country in 1993, according to data from the Securities &
Exchange Board of India. This year, the total has been about
$11.2 billion, the data show.  Economic Affairs Secretary R. Gopalan will lead a group of
officials from the finance ministry, central bank and  capital
markets  regulator on the trip, according to Mathew, to tout
reforms such as eased limits on foreign investment in bonds, and
rules that let qualified foreign investors buy shares
directly. Company executives won’t be present at the proposed
meetings, which will be held in the U.K.,  Hong Kong ,  Japan ,
 Saudi Arabia , Kuwait and the  United Arab Emirates .  “It’s high time we did this,” Mathew said on May 8.  “We
believe that India’s strong fundamentals and opening up of
capital markets in the last 18 months should be brought to the
notice of investors all over the world.”  Fund managers thus far don’t appear to be convinced. The
nation’s equity benchmark  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , which had
climbed as much as 19 percent by Feb. 21, has now pared back
gains to 6.6 percent, while the rupee is approaching a record
low touched in December.  Exiting Bonds  International investors have also pulled about $2 billion
from India’s rupee-denominated government and corporate bonds
since the start of February after the projected  budget deficit 
widened. Confidence waned further after  Standard & Poor’s  said
in April that it may cut the sovereign  credit rating  to junk,
and economic growth slowed to an estimated 6.9 percent for the
year ended March 31.  “India has seen continuous negatives on the macro-economic
front and virtually no reforms,” Daiwa’s Iyer said in an
interview from Mumbai. “Investments are needed in capital
formation to renew growth, and that’s not happening.”  Offshore funds turned into net sellers of Indian stocks in
April, the first month of withdrawals in 2012, after having
pulled out $512 million in 2011. The withdrawals compared with a
record $24 billion in inflows in 2010, and led to a 25 percent
decline in the Sensex last year and a 16 percent drop in the
rupee to a record low.  Policy Reversals  Policy makers’ woes have escalated as persistent inflation
curtails the central bank’s ability to lower borrowing costs and
bolster growth, while UBS AG estimates the rupee may drop to a
record 56 per dollar by March 2013.  Investors have also been battered by bad news on the
corporate front. Singh’s administration in December reversed a
decision to let multi-brand companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  and  Carrefour SA (CA)  open supermarkets in India’s $400 billion
retail market, while India’s top court scrapped 122 telecom
licenses tainted by graft allegations in February.  Such policy setbacks are continuing to mount: Finance
Minister Pranab Mukherjee this month announced that a rule to
curtail tax avoidance will be delayed to April 2013 after it
fueled concern that foreign investments would fall.  Low Interest  The pullback on the planned General Anti-Avoidance Rule, or
GAAR, is “just a small step in the right direction,”
Raiffeisen Capital’s Maier said.  Part of the problem is that reforms undertaken by the
government to open up capital markets in the last 18 months
“have not reached the right places with the right
perspective,” said Mathew, the finance ministry official.  The steps taken include an increase in foreign investment
limits for long-term infrastructure bonds, corporate bonds and
 government securities . The limit on external commercial
borrowings was also raised and qualified foreign investors were
allowed to invest in specified India mutual funds and directly
in equities, Mukherjee said in parliament on March 16.  Now the government will partner with investment banks that
are dominant in those markets -- including  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  -- to help
organize meetings and get that message across to investors,
Mathew said.   As officials take their pitch overseas, investors will be
looking for some assurances that policy-makers will follow
through on pledges to spur the economy.  “India needs to show it can deliver on the macro-economic
front and not promise something and roll back in a few weeks’
time,” Raiffeisen’s Maier said. Until the political issues are
resolved, “investor interest will be very low.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  