-- India Needs Course Correction to Lure Foreign Investment
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-09T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/india-needs-course-correction-to-lure-foreign-investment.html
Just because you can now go to
Dunkin’ Donuts in  New Delhi , with the first Starbucks soon to
follow, doesn’t mean it’s morning for foreign investors in
 India . In fact, judging by some of the government’s recent
moves, dawn has been postponed by a few years.  Wednesday, India’s Finance Secretary R.S. Gujral told
Bloomberg News that if plans to amend India’s tax law go
through, Vodafone Group Plc will face a retroactive tax bill of
as much as $3.72 billion for its 2007 purchase of Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd.’s Indian cellular operations. Changes to the law
would override a decision issued this year by India’s  Supreme
Court  releasing Vodafone from any tax obligation, and they might
also expose companies such as  Kraft (KFT)  Foods Inc., AT&T Inc. and
SABMiller Plc. to similar retroactive penalties and levies for
previous transactions.  The government has also reportedly decided against lifting
a 26 percent cap on foreign investment in the insurance
business. And though single-brand niche retailers such as
 Dunkin’ Donuts  and Starbucks can now own as much as 100 percent
of their ventures (provided they source 30 percent of content
locally), there is as yet no joy for multibrand retailers such
as Wal-Mart Stores Inc., which remain locked out of the consumer
market.  These misguided decisions have taken place against a
background of a cooling economy and a deepening political
paralysis. India  grew  by less than 7 percent last year, the
slowest pace in three years, and it is saddled with a fiscal
deficit and inflation rate that are the highest among the big
developing economies, not to mention a swelling trade deficit
driven by oil imports. Its fractious ruling coalition of
frenemies can’t agree on whether to order a tall or a grande,
let alone on what further reforms to adopt.  Faced with those circumstances, Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee   chose  to make higher taxes on foreign investors a
crucial part of his effort this fiscal year to close his
country’s budget gap. But that’s exactly the wrong way to
attract the capital that India needs: Its  12th Five Year Plan 
calls for $1 trillion in infrastructure investment over the next
five years. Remarkably, in the face of widespread investor
unease, some government ministers have  argued  that these tax
changes “will not have any impact on foreign investment flow in
the country.”  The prospect of a new rule on  tax avoidance  in Mukherjee’s
budget spurred the outflow of hundreds of millions of dollars
from India’s exchanges. Despite his subsequent decision to
postpone the rule’s implementation until 2013, foreign portfolio
investors have not been  reassured . The proposed Vodafone
provision, which could net India billions in retroactive
revenue, sends investors exactly the wrong signal, not least
because it overturns a seemingly settled court verdict. The
government should drop the retroactive provisions of the law,
and focus more on curbing the subsidies that eat up more than 2
percent of gross domestic product.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  made the case for
continued opening of the Indian economy in her just concluded
trip. In fact, we give her major props for going into the lion’s
den -- a visit with  Mamata Banerjee , chief minister of West
Bengal, leader of coalition member  All India Trinamool Congress ,
one of Time magazine’s “100 Most Influential People” in 2012,
and a reflexive opponent of economic liberalization. But given
India’s fragmented polity and the sclerotic state of its
national parties and their central leadership, don’t expect
much, if any, change until national elections in 2014 -- and
then hope that it’s for the better.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  monitoring mad-cow
disease ; A.A. Gill on  London’s shareholder revolt ;  Ezra Klein  on
 Richard Lugar’s concession speech ;  Noah Feldman  on  Israel’s new
coalition ;  Caroline Baum  on the  nature of U.S. unemployment ;
Reid Hastie on the  failure of narrative thinking ; Sam Sherraden
on  China’s liberalization . 