-- ING Profit Excluding Charges Beats Estimates, Boosting Stock
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-05-09T13:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/ing-groep-quarterly-profit-drops-after-u-s-settlement-charge.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, posted first-quarter earnings
excluding one-time items that exceeded estimates after loan loss
provisions decreased for the first time in a year.  ING rose as much as 3.8 percent in Amsterdam trading after
reporting profit on that basis of 705 million euros ($915
million). While that was 48 percent lower than a year earlier,
it beat the 632 million-euro  estimate  of seven analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  “These results look mildly positive, in particular as the
bank reported better than estimated operational results thanks
to lower loan losses than I expected,” said Jan Willem Weidema,
an Amsterdam-based analyst at ABN Amro Bank NV.  The company set aside 441 million euros for doubtful loans,
compared with 447 million euros in the previous quarter and the
484 million-euro estimate of Weidema, who has a “buy”
recommendation on the shares. It was the first decline after
three quarters of increases. Provisions at the Dutch retail bank
eased to 131 million euros from 191 million euros the previous
quarter.  Net income fell to 680 million euros from 1.38 billion
euros a year earlier, hurt by charges related to a potential
settlement for a U.S. probe, a revaluation of its own debt and
losses on hedges aimed at protecting regulatory capital.  ING  gained  11.3 cents to 5.11 euros by 2:10 p.m. in
Amsterdam, reducing its loss this year to 7.9 percent. That
compares with a 3.7 percent advance in the Stoxx  Europe  600
Insurance Index in 2012.  ‘Challenging’ Environment  “The operating environment remained challenging in the
first quarter, as the European sovereign debt crisis
persisted,” Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen said in today’s
statement. “Loan loss provisions improved slightly from the
fourth quarter, but are expected to remain elevated given the
weakening economic environment in Europe.”  Underlying pretax profit at ING’s banking operations fell
27 percent to 1.13 billion euros after a 304 million-euro charge
related to an improvement in the price of its own debt and value
adjustments on derivatives related to client loans.  Net interest income dropped by 1.3 percent to 3.05 billion
euros as competition for savings reduced interest margins.
Consumer-banking deposits at ING rose 11.4 billion euros.  U.S. Probe  ING set aside 370 million euros for a potential settlement
with U.S. authorities, including the Office of Foreign Assets
Control, related to transactions by its commercial banking unit
that occurred up to 2007.  ING bank’s core tier 1 ratio, a measure of capital
strength, increased to 10.9 percent from 9.6 percent at the end
of December as the sale of ING Direct USA contributed to a
decline in risk-weighted assets. The capital ratio exceeded an
estimate by Benoit Petrarque, an Amsterdam-based analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets, who described the jump as “the good
news of the day.”  The insurance division had an underlying pretax loss of 18
million euros, compared with a 428 million-euro profit a year
earlier. Results in the U.S. and Benelux insurance units were
hurt by a 570 million-euro loss on hedges aimed to protect
regulatory capital.  Unit Sales  ING booked a 489 million-euro gain on the sale of its U.S.
online bank to  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  as part of a
restructuring plan imposed by the European Union. ING still has
to sell insurance units in  Asia , Europe and the U.S. before the
end of 2013 and repay state aid while at the same time preparing
for tougher  capital requirements .  The bank and insurer received 10 billion euros of state aid
in 2008 and transferred the risk on 21.6 billion euros of U.S.
mortgage assets to the Dutch government in 2009. In March, it
won a case at the EU’s General Court that required regulators to
re-examine the conditions tied to the rescue.  The EU yesterday said it is appealing the decision. That
doesn’t remove the requirement for the EU to make a new
restructuring decision, ING spokesman Raymond Vermeulen said
yesterday. ING and the Dutch state will soon start discussions
with the European Commission, Hommen said today, adding ING
remains “committed to the decision to separate the banking and
insurance operations.”  State Aid  The lender still plans to repay the 3 billion euros still
owed to the Dutch state as soon as possible, Hommen told
reporters today, adding that ING will do this in “close
consultation” with the Netherlands and the European Commission.  The divestment process for the Asian insurance and
investment management operations “is going well,” Chief
Financial Officer Patrick Flynn said on Bloomberg Television,
adding he expected to be able to give more insight at the end of
the second quarter.  The Asian insurance unit’s operating result rose 39 percent
to 218 million euros during the quarter.  “For insurance Europe and U.S. we are looking for an IPO
strategy as a base case but it may be a little further off
before we announce anything further in terms of commencing that
process,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  