-- IPOs Get Riskier for Bankers as Hong Kong Weighs Prison Terms
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-05-09T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/ipos-get-riskier-for-bankers-as-hong-kong-weighs-prison-terms.html
Bankers may face prison for
misleading information in share-sale documents under a proposal
by  Hong Kong  regulators that could raise the cost and risk of
arranging initial public offerings in the city.  The Securities and Futures Commission said yesterday it
will seek feedback on a proposal to  impose criminal penalties  on
bankers or firms who fail to ensure proper due diligence in
IPOs. Some senior bankers in Hong Kong are already devoting more
time to examining companies they take public in anticipation of
tougher rules, said two executives at securities firms who
requested anonymity because the matter is sensitive.  The SFC said tougher legislation is needed to protect
investors, after a string of accounting scandals involving
 Chinese companies  that were listed in recent years eroded
confidence in IPOs. Bankers said the risk of criminal penalties
that may include prison means they may steer clear of arranging
smaller offerings.  “You have to wonder with the smaller deals, whether the
economics will really support them,” said Dominic Tsun, a Hong
Kong-based capital markets lawyer and partner at  Kirkland &
Ellis . “The due diligence standards are exactly the same for
smaller deals.”  Under the SFC’s proposal, bankers would face fines of as
much as HK$700,000 ($90,300) and prison terms of as long as
three years. SFC Chief Executive Officer Ashley Alder said
during a press conference that the regulator will mainly target
sponsor firms, and individual bankers would only be criminally
liable for “serious” cases.  Sponsor System  Hong Kong is proposing legislation that’s tougher than in
major IPO markets like the U.S. and  London . In Singapore,
underwriters may be criminally liable for information in
prospectuses, though only if they acted “intentionally or
recklessly,” according to a statement on the Monetary Authority
of  Singapore ’s  website .  The territory, which reverted to Chinese rule in 1997, has
benefited as $159 billion of IPOs by companies from the mainland
in the past decade swelled the value of its stock market. First-
time sales peaked at $58 billion in 2010 before dropping by more
than half last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  In 2007, the SFC introduced a system where one or several
investment banks arranging an IPO would act as a so-called
sponsor and be responsible for due diligence. The sponsors on a
deal are typically identified on the front page of the
prospectus.  “Bankers want to be sponsors because they play a key role
that involves lots of communication with the company,” said
Tsun who regularly works with issuers and underwriters. “This
may result in better commissions as well as future mandates for
block trades and the like.”  State to Private  Another proposal in the SFC’s consultation paper is to
restrict the number of sponsors on any single IPO, since having
too many “can lead to fragmentation of work, gaps and
overlaps,” according to the document.  As the state-owned companies that dominated IPOs in Hong
Kong over the past decade give way to smaller, privately owned
businesses, accounting issues are more common, said Winnie
Cheung, chief executive officer of Hong Kong Institute of
Certified Public Accountants.  “Because the market is moving from the mature area, the
state-owned enterprises, to the private sector, we are seeing
problems there,” Cheung said in a May 8 interview. “For a lot
of these small enterprises from  China , there’s the question: are
they ready to go public?”  The average size of a Hong Kong IPO fell to $136 million
this year, the lowest in nine years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compares with $301 million last year and $609
million in 2010.  Market Integrity  Four Hong Kong-listed Chinese firms, including  Boshiwa
International Holding Ltd. (1698) , a Shanghai-based Harry Potter
apparel licensee, said their auditors resigned this year because
of disputes over financial data or other key information. That’s
four times the number in the same period last year and in the
first quarter of 2010. Two other companies reported that their
auditors needed more time to verify earnings.  Large investment banks operating in Hong Kong typically
employ about five executives each who are licensed to act as
sponsors on IPOs, said one banker. In total, there are about 100
such people in Hong Kong, this person said.  “It’s in everyone’s interest that we maintain integrity of
the market,” said Bonnie Chan, a lawyer at Davis Polk &
Wardwell, who is coordinating the response from the “most
active” investment banks sponsoring Hong Kong IPOs. “The banks
will certainly help the SFC in a constructive manner to analyze
these issues to assist with the consultation.”  ‘Inadequate’ Diligence  The SFC reviewed deal work by underwriters in 2010, when
the city rose to become the world’s biggest IPO market as
companies including AIA Group Ltd. went public. In March last
year, the regulator published findings from the review, saying
due diligence had been “inadequate” at times.  In some cases, the sponsors failed to keep proper records
of their checks on the businesses of listing applicants,
according to the report. In others, inadequate manpower and
resources were used by sponsors during IPOs, the SFC said.  “The SFC has noticed and we have noticed there have been
instances when sponsors do not appear to have taken their duties
seriously enough,” said Mark Dickens, head of listing at the
Hong Kong bourse, in a May 2 interview.  Falling Fees  The regulator in April fined Mega Capital ( Asia ) Co. a
record HK$42 million for failing to highlight misleading
information in the share sale prospectus of Hontex International
Holdings Co. Mega Capital, the sole sponsor on the deal, was
also stripped of its corporate finance license -- an
unprecedented penalty.  The rising cost and risk of sponsoring IPOs would add to
pressures for underwriters already stung by falling fees and
tougher competition. Banks earned 2.24 percent of IPO proceeds
as fees last year, down from 2.94 percent in 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. At the same time, the average number
of underwriters on each deal increased to a record. Fees in the
U.S. were 3.4 percent of proceeds last year, the data show.  “Hong Kong is the toughest market in the world to list
in,” said Jeff Maddox, a capital markets lawyer at Cadwalader,
Wickersham & Taft LLP. “More liability will make it even more
expensive. Everybody will need to up their game.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  