-- Lira Weakens Third Day as Greek Parties Debate Bailout Terms
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-05-09T15:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/lira-weakens-third-day-as-greek-parties-debate-bailout-terms.html
The lira weakened a third day as a
political impasse in neighboring  Greece  threatened to worsen
 Europe ’s debt credit, curbing investor appetite for riskier
assets.  The Turkish currency depreciated 1 percent to 1.7950
against the dollar at 6:13 p.m. in Istanbul, extending its
three-day decline to 2 percent. A close at this level would be
the weakest since April 23.  “We saw $500 million to $600 million in outflows yesterday
as London traders bought dollars,” Burcin Metin, head of
foreign  currency trading  at ING Bank AS in Istanbul, said by e-
mail. “Almost all of it was about Greece and the euro-zone.”  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell to a four-month low
and the euro weakened for an eighth day as Greek politicians
debated whether to reject a bailout in an effort to form a
government following weekend elections. Another ballot may be
held next month should leaders fail to form a coalition. The
European Union accounted for 46 percent of  Turkey ’s exports last
year, according to government data.  “Right now new elections seem to be on the agenda which
should ease sentiment short term, but obviously the risk is that
the new government will still reject the bailout agreements,”
Thu Lan Nguyen, foreign currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt , said in response to e-mailed questions. “If this
would become more certain, I would change my view on the lira.
Turkey is after all one of the most vulnerable countries should
an external shock cause capital imports to the region to dry
out.”  The lira may strengthen to 1.78 per dollar by end-June,
Nguyen said.  Forward contracts show the lira trading at 1.89 per dollar
by the end of the year. The currency has gained 5.5 percent
against the dollar this year after an 18 percent depreciation
last year.  The yield on two-year benchmark  government debt  rose for a
fourth day, increasing four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 9.57 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  