-- Iran May Be Erasing Nuclear Work Evidence, Analysts Say
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-05-09T20:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/iran-may-be-erasing-nuclear-work-evidence-analysts-say.html
Iran  may be erasing evidence of
nuclear weapons work at its Parchin military complex southeast
of Tehran, according to an analysis of satellite imagery by a
Washington-based research institute.  Commercial satellite imagery of the Parchin site taken on
April 9, compared with a previous image obtained on March 4,
shows unidentified items lined up outside a rectangular building
and what appears to be water flowing out of the same structure,
Paul Brannan, an analyst at the Institute for Science and
International Security, said today in a phone interview.  Iran may be washing up inside the building or cleaning
items outside because inspectors from the  International Atomic
Energy Agency  expressed an interest in visiting Parchin, Brannan
and  David Albright , the institute’s president, wrote in a
statement on its website that shows the satellite images.  The U.S. and European Union are using economic sanctions to
press Iran to abandon any military dimensions of its nuclear
program, which its leaders say is intended solely for civilian
energy and medical purposes. Representatives of the five
permanent members of the UN Security Council -- the U.S.,
Britain,  France ,  China  and  Russia  -- as well as Germany plan to
meet with Iranian officials in  Baghdad  on May 23 for
negotiations on the issue.  Iran probably became concerned about the building at
Parchin after it was cited by the IAEA in a November report,
Brannan said. The IAEA report said a building appeared to have
been constructed at the complex “around a large cylindrical
object.”  Alleged Testing  The IAEA cited information that Iran in 2000 placed at the
location an “explosives containment vessel,” the type capable
of being used for “hydrodynamic experiments” to test the type
of high-explosives charge used to trigger a nuclear explosion.
The agency said information from a member state in the early
2000s alleged that Iran was conducting high explosive testing,
possibly in association with nuclear materials, at the
Parchin military complex.  Iran’s Foreign Ministry dismissed the institute’s analysis
of the imagery. “This institute is a bit inexperienced,”
Iran’s state-run Press TV said on its website, quoting Foreign
Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast . Nuclear activities
“could not be cleaned” in the way the institute suggests,
according to the report.  Albright, a nuclear physicist and former international
weapons inspector, has advised the IAEA and researched nuclear
programs by Iran,  Iraq  and  North Korea .  Past Coverups  Brannan, a nuclear analyst who works on satellite imagery,
said Iran has had a pattern of removing evidence of suspected
nuclear weapons work.  “Iran rehabilitated the Kalaye Electric” facility that
was suspected of being a research and development site for
centrifuge work, Brannan said.  Another suspected site, at Lavizan, was torn down and Iran
“even removed the top soil” and converted the facility into a
soccer field, saying that the demolition was the result of a
municipal dispute with the city of Tehran, Brannan said.  “It’s a pattern of behavior,” he said. “Iran realizes
that the international community has learned of some activity,
and instead of talking about it they try to remove the
evidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  