-- Third Point Asks Yahoo to Replace Thompson With Interim
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-05-09T20:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/third-point-asks-yahoo-to-replace-thompson-with-interim.html
Yahoo (YHOO) ! Inc. investor Third Point LLC
escalated pressure for management change at the Web portal,
urging directors to immediately replace Chief Executive Officer
 Scott Thompson  over his misrepresented academic credentials.  Chief Financial Officer Tim Morse or Ross Levinsohn, head
of global media, should become interim chief, Third Point CEO
 Daniel Loeb  said in a letter to the company’s board today. Loeb
also demanded his slate of directors be added to the board right
away, and said one of his representatives, Michael Wolf, should
chair the search committee for a permanent CEO.  Loeb’s fresh entreaties come a day after Yahoo director
Patti Hart said she would step down amid questions about her
role in hiring Thompson, who the company inaccurately said had a
computer science degree. Third Point called for Thompson’s
removal last week, and Yahoo’s board yesterday said it was
setting up a special committee to review the matter.  “Third Point has over $1 billion invested in Yahoo, and we
take no joy in witnessing this carnage,” said Loeb, whose fund
has $9 billion in assets. “This board’s unchecked value
destruction must stop once and for all.”  The fallout marks a setback for Thompson, who joined from
 EBay Inc. (EBAY)  in January and is attempting to revive Yahoo’s growth.
He replaced Carol Bartz, who was dismissed in September amid
falling sales and market-share losses to Google Inc. and
Facebook Inc.  ‘Chess Match’  “He’s used the thing that’s come up with Scott as kind of
the pawn of the chess match,” said  Martin Pyykkonen , an analyst
at Wedge Partners Corp. in  Greenwood Village ,  Colorado , in an
interview referring to Loeb. “The facts are embarrassing.
There’s no question about that.”  Yahoo declined 0.4 percent to $15.30 at the close in New
York. The  stock  has dropped 5.1 percent this year.  “This was a flawed process,” said  Colin Gillis , an
analyst at BGC Partners in  New York  who has a hold rating on the
stock and doesn’t own it. “What’s happening is that Third
Point’s case -- that the board is not functioning effectively --
has been strengthened.”  Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo said yesterday it formed
a committee of three recently appointed independent board
members to review Thompson’s academic credentials and the
vetting process that preceded his selection as CEO.  Dana Lengkeek, spokeswoman for Yahoo, referred to
yesterday’s committee announcement when asked for comment on
today’s letter from Loeb.  In a statement yesterday confirming Hart’s planned exit as
a director, the Yahoo board said, “we thank Patti for her years
of service and wish her all the best.”  Review Committee  The review committee’s chairman is Alfred Amoroso, who
joined in February. The other directors on the panel are John
Hayes and Thomas McInerney, who both joined in April. The
committee has also retained Terry Bird as independent counsel.  The biography for Thompson listed a bachelor’s degree in
computer science from Stonehill College in Easton,
 Massachusetts , a credential that wasn’t offered until four years
after he graduated,  Third Point  said last week.  Yahoo’s board said last week that it would review the
matter and “make an appropriate disclosure to shareholders.”
The company had earlier called the discrepancy an “inadvertent
error” and said it “in no way alters that fact that Mr.
Thompson is a highly qualified executive with a successful track
record leading large consumer technology companies.”  Hart’s Degree  Loeb also said Hart inflated her degree. Hart is listed in
filings as holding a “bachelor’s degree in marketing and
economics” from Illinois State University, Loeb said last week.
“However, we understand that Ms. Hart’s degree is in business
administration. She received a degree in neither marketing nor
economics.”  Yahoo said in its response at the time that “Patti Hart
holds a bachelor of science degree in business administration
with specialties in marketing and economics from Illinois State
University.”  Jay Groves, a spokesman for Illinois State, last week
corroborated the business administration degree, saying Hart
graduated in 1978 with a concentration in economics and
marketing.  In a statement yesterday, Hart cited her duties as CEO of
 International Game Technology (IGT)  as the reason she won’t seek re-
election to Yahoo’s board. Philip Satre, chairman of
International Game Technology, said that after a review, the
company’s directors found “no material inconsistencies” in
Hart’s academic credentials.  “We will closely monitor future developments at Yahoo and
their impact on Patti’s responsibilities to IGT,” Satre said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 