-- Israeli Coalition Is About a Fair Draft, Not Iran
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-05-09T18:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/israeli-coalition-is-about-a-fair-draft-not-iran.html
Israel’s newly expanded governing
coalition may be more cautious about bombing  Iran , and it may be
marginally more open to serious negotiations with the
Palestinians. But neither issue was the immediate reason the
centrist Kadima party  joined the government  of Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  on May 8.  The fundamental issue was the relationship between Israel’s
secular and ultra-Orthodox populations.  A looming crisis in Israeli politics was created when the
country’s highest court ruled in February that ultra-Orthodox
men studying in Israeli yeshivas, academies of higher Talmudic
learning, must be drafted into the Israeli army as of Aug. 1.
Since Israel was founded in 1948, ultra-Orthodox yeshiva
students have been exempt from compulsory military service, as
have religious Jewish women and Palestinian Arabs who hold
Israeli citizenship. Those exempt can choose nonmilitary
national service, but few do.  The exemption was the product of a deal between David Ben-
Gurion, Israel’s legendary first prime minister, and the ultra-
Orthodox minority, which was then tiny. At the time, many ultra-
Orthodox Jews in  Israel  and abroad rejected the very idea of a
Jewish state, believing that only God had the authority to re-
create Jewish sovereignty in the land of Israel. To hasten the
messianic age was a sin, and secular Zionism was its
incarnation.  Exemptions for Support  What was more, in the 19th and early 20th centuries, the
great yeshivas of Eastern Europe lived in constant fear of
military conscription into the Russian army. It seemed monstrous
for a Jewish state to draft yeshiva students. In the end, Ben-
Gurion traded the military exemption for the political support
of ultra-Orthodox leaders. Such backing has proved valuable to
successive prime ministers, as none of Israel’s major parties
have ever won parliamentary majorities outright and so have
often relied on religious parties to form governing coalitions.  Since Israel’s founding, the ultra-Orthodox community has
grown enormously, fueled in large part by state subsidies. From
several hundred yeshiva students claiming the draft exemption,
the ranks have risen to some 60,000. The number of people
studying the Talmud full time is now far greater than at any
point in Jewish history. To the ultra-Orthodox, this is not just
a virtue in itself. Many believe the students are providing a
spiritual defense for the state, earning divine merit that
ensures Israel’s continued existence.  At the same time, almost all the ultra-Orthodox have come
to terms with the existence of Israel. Their leaders engage in
shaping the way the government does its business. They have
successfully lobbied for subsidies for their community and for a
large share of control over the rabbinate that regulates
marriage and divorce for Jewish Israelis. They keep the Israeli
airline,  El Al (ELAL) , as well as the national bus companies from
operating on the Sabbath, and they block Saturday traffic in
their neighborhoods.  Yet Israel is mostly secular. Only 27 percent of Israelis
say they keep the Sabbath in the traditional manner. And secular
Israelis have become increasingly angry about what they consider
ultra-Orthodox freeloading on the public goods of defense and
social welfare. Secular Israelis consider it outrageous that
small religious parties have been able to extract concessions
from parties, left and right, as they try to build governing
coalitions.  Breaking the Cycle  The latest round of coalition building may have broken that
cycle. Netanyahu feared that passing a new law to address the
high court’s ruling might bring down his government, and had
called early elections to avoid the conflict. He canceled that
plan two days later, however, after expanding his government.
With 94 of the 120 seats in parliament, the new government can
address the ruling without fear of collapsing because of
defections. The centrist and secular Kadima, led by former
military chief of staff Shaul Mofaz, is likely to see eye to eye
with Netanyahu’s Likud party on this issue.  A new social contract will probably emerge between Israel’s
secular and ultra-Orthodox citizens. It’s improbable that all
yeshiva students will be drafted. This might lead to civil
disobedience by students horrified at the prospect of being
forced into secular society. The military certainly doesn’t want
the task of bringing 60,000 Talmudic scholars into the modern
world and putting them through basic training. But one can
expect that yeshiva students will have to perform various kinds
of nonmilitary national service. Alternatives might include
teaching, providing basic health care and administrative work.  The result will be a far-reaching transformation of
Israel’s ultra-Orthodox community. Torah study has weathered
infinitely greater challenges, most recently the Holocaust, and
it will survive. But the ranks of those who devote their entire
lives exclusively to the practice will shrink to those who can
do it particularly well.  Resolving the draft exclusion won’t eliminate the rift
between secular and ultra-Orthodox Israelis. Notably, there
remains the issue of religious control of marriage and divorce.
Indeed, ultra-Orthodox political demands may become more
credible once the ultra-Orthodox community is carrying some of
the burden of sustaining the state. Greater integration of the
ultra-Orthodox into mainstream society may make Israel less
secular, not more. Israelis will still have to decide how
religiously Jewish the Jewish state ought to be. That question
matters as much to Israel’s future as the problems of war and
peace.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Lisa Beyer at  lbeyer3@bloomberg.net . 