-- Israel Pyramid Rules Turn Insurers Into Buyout Targets: Real M&A
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-05-10T14:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/israel-pyramid-rules-turn-insurers-into-buyout-targets-real-m-a.html
Israel ’s proposed regulations
requiring simplified corporate structures are giving foreign
private-equity firms the chance to acquire some of the country’s
biggest insurance providers at a bargain.  Clal Insurance Enterprise Holdings Ltd. and  Phoenix
Holdings Ltd. (PHOE1) , the country’s second- and third-largest insurance
companies, are likely to be sold as the government aims to limit
pyramid structures to three public layers, said DS Securities &
Investments. Clal and Phoenix, owned by Israeli billionaires,
are trading below the value of their net assets and are cheaper
than 96 percent of similar-sized life insurance providers in the
 Middle East  and Africa, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Insurers will be attractive targets with Israel’s economic
 growth  surpassing 4 percent in seven of the last eight years and
the number of people paying into insurance plans increasing
since  mandatory pension contributions  began in 2008, said DS
Securities. Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , seeking to boost
competition, will give conglomerates four years to comply with
the new rules. With about  12 percent  of the companies in the TA-
100 Index having to put assets for sale, the deals may start to
lure private-equity firms from  KKR & Co. (KKR)  to  Silver Lake  and
Carlyle Group LP, said Kedma Capital II LP.  “The big insurance companies are on the shelf and that’s
where you are going to see the first moves,” Gilead Halevy,
founding partner of Tel Aviv-based Kedma Capital and general
partner at KCPS Private Equity fund, said in an interview. “The
market will have to open up to new entrants and the natural
choice will be private-equity funds.”  Coalition Agreement  The Israeli cabinet on April 22 approved the
 recommendations  of the committee on economic concentration that
also include reducing cross-holdings in financial and industrial
businesses. The cabinet appointed its own committee to prepare
the legislation necessary to implement the recommendations,
according to the  Finance Ministry .  A coalition agreement announced on May 8 canceled early
elections, enabling Netanyahu’s government to move forward with
regulations to increase competition, said Terence Klingman,
senior analyst for international clients at Psagot Investment
House Ltd. in  Tel Aviv .  Delek Group Ltd. (DLEKG) , controlled by billionaire Isaac Tshuva,
is likely to sell Phoenix to comply with the rules and hold onto
other investments in oil and  natural gas  exploration, said Meir Slater, an analyst at Tel Aviv-based DS Securities. The Netanya,
Israel-based holding company owns about  53 percent  of Phoenix.  ‘Classic Example’  IDB Holding Corp. (IDBH) , the Tel Aviv-based company controlled by
billionaire Nochi Dankner, will divest Clal to adhere to the
regulations, said Slater. IDB, which owns  55 percent  of Clal,
has a holding structure of five public layers, according to Ron
Alkon, an analyst at Epsilon Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv.  “Clal Insurance is a classic example of one of the first
companies that could be an attractive target for foreign
investors,” Yossi Efrati, head of investments at Hachshara
Insurance Co. in Tel Aviv, said in a telephone interview. “The
insurance sector in Israel has growth potential as long-term
savings are expected to expand.”  Representatives for IDB Holding and Delek Group declined to
comment on whether the units are being sold or what price they
may fetch in a sale.  IDB Holding’s previous talks with Permira Advisers LLP
regarding the potential sale of its stake in Clal ended in
September. The  holding company  is seeing renewed interest in the
insurance company, including from Permira and others, Israeli
daily Calcalist reported April 1.  Underperforming Stocks  “Deals like the sale of  Clal Insurance (CLIS)  didn’t happen
before as there might have been a gap in the price
expectation,” said Kedma Capital’s Halevy. The new holding
company restrictions “now may close that gap.”  In the last year, shares of Clal had fallen 37 percent
through yesterday while Phoenix dropped 25 percent as the
insurance companies’ 2011  net income  declined by 97 percent and
83 percent, respectively, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Both
have underperformed Israel’s benchmark  TA-25 index  that lost 12
percent in the last 12 months through yesterday.  Worth almost 7 billion shekels ($1.8 billion) in 2007
before the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression,
Clal had a market capitalization of about 3.2 billion shekels as
of yesterday. That’s about  0.86 times  the value of its assets
minus liabilities.  Book Value Discount  At 2.2 billion shekels, Phoenix is trading at  0.85 times 
book value. Both Clal and Phoenix are cheaper than 22 of 23
other life insurance companies in the Middle East and Africa
with market values of at least $100 million, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The median price-to-book multiple for the
industry is 2.8.  Clal rose 0.6 percent to 57.82 shekels in Tel Aviv today,
while Phoenix gained 1 percent to 8.796 shekels.  Clal may fetch between 1 and 1.2 times book value in an
acquisition, while Phoenix may sell at a ratio of 0.95 to 1.15,
Slater said. The companies are appealing even beyond low price
tags, he said.  With a population of 7.8 million, Israel is among the
youngest in the developed group of countries with relatively few
citizens over 60, according to a population report from the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. More
than 85 percent of the population will be of working age through
2050 versus an average of 76 percent in other OECD countries.  “The growth potential of Israel’s insurance sector, in
particular in pension and life insurance funds, is boosting the
attractiveness of these companies as target acquisitions,”
Slater said in a telephone interview. “Israel’s economy, which
is expanding at a fairly solid pace, will provide a growth
engine for the sector.”  ‘Cheaper Prices’  Facing a four-year deadline, Israeli companies will
probably have to sell at lower prices, which will lure foreign
investors, said Pinhas Rubin,  chairman  and senior partner at
Gornitzky & Co., a Tel Aviv-based law firm.  “We are talking about a compelled sale of companies, which
means that buyers are from the outset in a better position to
negotiate prices,” Rubin, who deals with mergers and
acquisitions and represents the country’s largest conglomerates
such as Delek Group, said in an interview. “Deal activity is
likely to pick up fast because the closer we get to the four-
year deadline the more pressure there will be on those companies
to sell and the cheaper prices will get.”  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  has already expressed interest in
investing in the nation. The world’s largest private-equity firm
is in preliminary talks with  Avgol Industries 1953 Ltd. (AVGL) , an
Israeli manufacturer of nonwoven fabrics, for a possible
acquisition, according to a March 6 statement.  Private-Equity Buyers  New York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest asset
manager, is considering offering its institutional customers
investment tools that will allow them to take advantage of
opportunities in the Israeli economy, Israeli Finance Minister
Yuval Steinitz said in an e-mailed statement today.  “The new regulations will reduce the potential pool of
local buyers because of the separation demand of cross
holdings,” Rubin said. “Foreign buyers will have a clear
advantage since they are not bound by these rules.”  Bigger private-equity firms such as New York-based KKR,
Silver Lake, and Washington-based  Carlyle (CG)  are interested in
investing in the Israeli market, said Halevy of Kedma Capital.  Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman at KKR, and Gemma Hart, a
spokeswoman for Menlo Park, California-based Silver Lake, said
the firms don’t comment on deal speculation, when asked whether
they are considering making acquisitions in Israel.  Ownership Changes  Chris Ullman  with Carlyle didn’t respond to a telephone
call or e-mail seeking comment.  “A lot of ownership will change hands,” Ron Lubash, co-
founder and  managing director  of Markstone Capital Group, a Tel
Aviv-based private-equity fund, said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York  this week. “Structural
changes open up a significant number of opportunities for
various types of investors. Private equity is a useful tool in a
structural change, but not only, there will be other investors
that will flock into some of these companies.”  Israeli private-equity deals in the first quarter were
valued at $115 million, the weakest quarterly period in two
years, according to the  IVC-GKH Private Equity Survey . While the
committee’s recommendations aren’t yet driving more
transactions, investment opportunities will increase if the
rules are formalized into law, Rick Mann, managing partner at
Tel Aviv-based law firm GKH, wrote in the report.  ‘Harsh Regulation’  “We expect significant activity in mergers and
acquisitions going forward,” Leonard Rosen, chief executive
officer for Israel at Barclays Plc in Tel Aviv, said in a phone
interview. “Investors have grown more and more comfortable in
Israel.”  Netanyahu’s new coalition gives him the powerbase needed to
push through reforms including the corporate regulations.  Such “harsh regulation” is not healthy for the economy
because it favors investment by foreign private-equity firms,
which are temporary and do not add to the stability of
companies, said Gornitzky’s Rubin.  Fitch Ratings  last month maintained the country’s foreign
currency debt rating at A and the local  credit rating  at A+,
saying that continuing growth outweighed concern Israel will
attack Iran’s nuclear facilities.  “Our clients outside of Israel worry about the
geopolitical risk, but the quality of Israeli companies, many of
them global leaders, has helped overcome that,” said Limor Beker, Israel Manager of Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania-based
private-equity firm Hamilton Lane Advisors LLC in Herzliya. “We
expect to continue to be a selective buyer alongside our clients
and fund managers.”  ‘Feeding Frenzy’  Hamilton Lane, which operates 11 offices globally, manages
$1.5 billion in private-equity investments of institutional
bodies in Israel.  The committee’s recommendations aim to target the nation’s
10 biggest corporations, which comprise 41 percent of the value
of listed companies, according to  Finance Ministry data . Some 20
families control 25 percent of the listed companies and 50
percent of the total market share in the Tel Aviv Stock
Exchange, one of the highest concentrations among developed
economies, the Bank of Israel said in its  2009 annual report .  In addition to Clal and Phoenix, the new rules may force
Israeli businessman Zadik Bino to decide between divesting  Paz
Oil Co. (PZOL) , the maker of petroleum-based products that also
operates convenience stores and develops real estate, and  First
International Bank of Israel Ltd ., the country’s fifth-largest
lender, according to Erez Dam-Och, head of the trading desk at
Tel Aviv-based Meitav Investment House Ltd.  A representative for Bino Holdings, which owns a stake in
Paz Oil, and FIBI Holdings Ltd., which owns a controlling stake
in First International Bank, declined to comment on whether a
decision has been made on the units when contacted by telephone
today.  “Tighter regulation and new rules on corporate pyramid
structures will turn Israel into a feeding frenzy for private-
equity funds,” said Psagot’s Klingman. “It is a buyer’s not a
seller’s market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net  