-- Lithuania Sees GDP Boost From Building Nuclear Plant
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-05-09T13:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/lithuania-sees-gdp-boost-from-building-nuclear-plant.html
Lithuania  predicts the construction of
a planned nuclear-power plant, its biggest investment since the
end of communism two decades ago, to boost  economic growth  by
0.7 percentage points a year.  The plant may cost 17.4 billion litai ($6.5 billion), the
 government  in Vilnius said in an e-mailed statement today. The
construction will create 6,000 jobs and 5 billion litai of
orders for local businesses.  Lithuania wants to build the plant, with partners in
Estonia and  Latvia , to reduce the region’s dependence on energy
imports from  Russia . The Baltic country imports 62 percent of
its electricity, the most in the European Union, after closing
the Soviet-built Ignalina nuclear plant in 2009 to comply with
European Union rules.  “This is a big step toward energy independence,” said
Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius at a press conference in Vilnius
today.  The government signed a concession agreement with  Hitachi
Ltd. (6501) ,  Japan ’s second-largest builder of nuclear reactors, for
the building of a nuclear power plant on March 30. The accord
requires the approval of Lithuania’s parliament by June 28.  Lithuania plans to hold a preliminary stake of 38 percent
in the Visaginas plant, Economy Minister Arvydas Sekmokas said
at the same press conference today. Estonia’s Eesti Energia AS
may hold 22 percent in the atomic plant, while Latvia’s
Latvenergo and Hitachi will each hold 20 percent, he said.  The new 1,300-megawatt reactor in Visaginas will probably
start operating between 2020 and 2022. The price of electricity
is estimated to average 18 centai ($0.06) per kilowatt hour, the
government said.  The Lithuanian government is continuing talks with
neighboring  Poland  and the project remains open for PGE SA,
Poland’s largest utility, Sekmokas said. PGE dropped plans to
participate in the construction in December as the company
focuses on other investment projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  