-- Corroding Littoral Combat Ship Faces Lawmakers’ Questions
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-05-10T18:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/littoral-combat-ship-corroding-before-our-eyes-facing-scrutiny.html
Lawmakers say they want Congress’s
auditing agency to investigate how the Navy has handled failings
with its new Littoral Combat Ship, including when the service
learned of cracks and corrosion.  “It’s disturbing the Navy would accept a ship that fails
to meet the basic requirements for a tugboat,” Representative
Jackie Speier said in  a statement  yesterday as the House Armed
Services Committee endorsed her request that the Government
Accountability Office review the $37 billion, 55-ship program.
“The future of the fleet is corroding before our eyes.”  The Littoral Combat Ship is intended to clear mines, hunt
for submarines, defend itself against swarming small vessels and
provide humanitarian relief in shallow coastal waters. Cracks
were found in a version being built by a team led by  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  Corrosion was found in the first vessel made by
 Austal Ltd. (ASB)  and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  The review would involve
both models.  The amendment by Speier, a California Democrat, was adopted
during the House committee’s consideration of legislation to
authorize defense programs for fiscal 2013. The Senate has yet
to take up its version of the bill.  Even with demands for more scrutiny of the Littoral Combat
Ship, the full committee supported the $2.2 billion requested by
the Navy for the next four vessels, including $429.4 million in
development funds, in the defense authorization measure it
approved today. The House defense appropriations subcommittee
also has approved funding for the four ships.  Support ‘Remains Solid’  “Our impression is that congressional support remains
solid,” Rear Admiral  James Murdoch , the program executive
officer, told reporters yesterday on a conference call.
“Obviously, I am held accountable for any concerns about ship
construction issues, and I welcome the scrutiny. We take all
issues seriously.”  Republican Representative Reid Ribble, whose  Wisconsin 
district includes the shipyard where the Lockheed Martin vessels
are built and many of the workers, issued a  statement  to
“rebuff baseless claims that undermine their work.”  He said
“the small issues that are normal for any newly designed
vessel” have been corrected.  Lockheed Martin spokeswoman Dana Casey said questions
raised about its first vessel, the USS Freedom, “appear to be
based on selective information that is outdated or inaccurate.”
The vessel was deployed two years ahead of schedule and “is
providing important lessons that are being incorporated into
future ships,” she said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Getting Job Done’  Austal USA spokesman Craig Hooper said his company’s first
vessel, the USS Independence, “has been quietly getting the job
done, doing the critical yet low-profile work required to deploy
cutting-edge mine warfare tools and sensors.”  Representative Duncan Hunter, a California Republican, and
Senate Armed Services Committee leaders  Carl Levin , a Michigan
Democrat, and  John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican, also have
requested that the GAO assess concerns about the ship’s sea
frame and mission equipment.  “Sure, there are criticisms and we kind of welcome those,
but it helps us kind of sharpen our focus on what it is we need
to go work on,” Rear Admiral Thomas Rowden, the Navy’s director
of surface warfare, told reporters yesterday. “But these are
incredibly capable ships, and we are finding the issues and
addressing them.”  Lockheed, General Dynamics  Lockheed Martin, based in Bethesda,  Maryland , is leading
construction of its ship model in Marinette Marine Corp.’s
shipyard in Marinette, Wisconsin. The other version is being
built in Mobile,  Alabama , by a team led by Austal, based in
Henderson,  Australia , and General Dynamics, based in  Falls
Church , Virginia.  Completion of 55 ships in the class would represent about
17 percent of a surface fleet with aircraft carriers, destroyers
and amphibious assault ships.  The Project on Government Oversight, a nonpartisan group
that has criticized the ship, issued a report last month using
year-old Navy documents to highlight construction difficulties.  McCain said cracks, flooding and corrosion problems on the
first ships have been corrected, and construction costs have
declined from a peak of more than $700 million a ship to less
than $360 million.  Mission Modules  “Over the last year, nearly all of the reported
deficiencies have been fixed on the lead ships and design
changes have been integrated into the follow-ships with minor
cost impact,” McCain said in an April 30 statement. He said his
concern now is with the ship’s “mission modules,” equipment
that can be installed depending on the combat assignment.  A lack of progress in developing the modules may “throw
the program out of sync and threaten its success,” McCain said
in the statement.  The equipment includes an $89.4 million “mine-
countermine” module designed to detect and neutralize mines at
varying depths.  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  is the  prime contractor 
for the modules.  The mine detection system isn’t meeting its combat
specifications for distinguishing between mines and other
objects in a search area as well as detecting and pinpointing a
mine’s depth, according to the Pentagon’s director of
operational test and evaluation.  The Navy program office rates the counter-mine module’s
performance characteristics as “yellow,” the middle category
in a grading system with green for best and red for worst,
according to program review documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  