-- Jailed Mongolian Ex-Leader Hospitalized on Hunger Strike
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-05-10T05:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/jailed-mongolian-ex-leader-hospitalized-on-hunger-strike.html
Jailed former Mongolian President
Nambar Enkhbayar, who plans to run in parliamentary elections in
June, is refusing treatment and his organs are failing six days
after he began a hunger strike to protest his imprisonment.  Enkhbayar, who previously served as prime minister and then
president of one of the world’s fastest growing economies, was
taken to a hospital in the capital Ulan Bator yesterday,
according to his son Batshugar. He said he saw his father
yesterday, that he was “very weak” and had vowed to continue
his hunger strike. A spokeswoman for President Tsakhia Elbegdorj
declined to comment.  The former leader’s treatment may further unsettle foreign
investors who helped fuel 17.3 percent economic growth last
year, said Oliver Belfitt-Nash, head of research at Ulan Bator-
based brokerage Monet Capital LLC. Political infighting in
recent months has hindered efforts by the government to sell off
state-run coal mining companies so it can raise cash for
infrastructure projects in the country of 2.8 million people.  “This arrest is just highlighting political risk here,”
Belfitt-Nash said in a phone interview. “It’s adding a premium
to Mongolia’s risk and all the stocks are going down because of
it.”  The Mongolian Stock Exchange Top 20 Index has fallen 6.3
percent so far this year after gaining 47 percent in 2011 and
139 percent in 2010.  United Nations Appeal  Enkhbayar isn’t taking food or water, said his attorney
Peter Goldsmith, a partner at New York-based Debevoise &
Plimpton LLP who is a former British attorney general and a
member of the House of Lords. Batshugar Enkhbayar, 24, said the
family was appealing to the  United Nations  and  Amnesty
International  to get emergency care abroad for his father
because they fear doctors within the country may be compromised.  Prime minister from 2000 to 2004 and president from 2005 to
2009, Enkhbayar, 53, was named head of the Mongolian People’s
Revolutionary Party after it split from the ruling party last
year. He was arrested April 13.  “He still commands strong support in the countryside and
with his breakaway party he might have been able to get enough
votes to act as a kingmaker,” siding with one of the two main
parties to form a coalition government, said Belfitt-Nash.  Politically Motivated  Enkhbayar’s son says the arrest was politically motivated
and that the court decreed his father could be held in detention
until June 27, a day before the elections take place. His father
claimed in April that 2008 and 2009 elections were beset by
fraud.  “They arrested him because they see him as an opponent in
the elections,” Batshugar said in a phone interview. “I’m
concerned because the rule of law is not working in Mongolia.”  Sed-Ayushjav Batzaya, a spokeswoman for the president, said
in a phone interview that “these questions are not really for
us, as it’s not the president who decides who goes to jail or
not.”  Od Och, the foreign policy adviser to Prime Minister
Sukhbaatar Batbold, and Hantulga Galaazagraa, the prime
minister’s assistant, didn’t reply to e-mails seeking comment. A
person who answered the phone at the State Prosecutor General’s
office hung up before answering any questions.  Goldsmith said the charges against Enkhbayar include
stealing a donation of television equipment valued at $113,000
that was meant to go to a Buddhist monastery and not paying
duties to ship eight volumes of a book he authored from  South
Korea  to Mongolia.  Enkhbayar’s son said his father, whose party is planning to
contest every seat in Mongolia’s parliament in the June
elections, denies all the charges against him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  