-- Japan Takes Control of Tepco in 10-Year Profit Plan
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-05-09T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/japan-takes-control-of-tepco-in-10-year-plan-to-revive-profit.html
Japan ’s government took control of
 Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , the center of the Fukushima nuclear
disaster, and agreed to provide 1 trillion yen ($12.5 billion)
as part of the nation’s largest bailout since the rescue
of the banking industry in the 1990s.  The government will obtain more than 50 percent of the
voting rights in the utility known as Tepco under a 10-year plan
approved yesterday by Trade and Industry Minister  Yukio Edano .
The government stake may rise to two-thirds if Tepco fails to
meet goals that include cost cuts and compensation payments.  The announcement is the culmination of talks since June
between Tepco and the government to help the utility return to
profit. Tepco has been on government support since the March 11,
2011 quake and tsunami wrecked the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
station, causing reactor meltdowns and forcing about 160,000
people to evacuate from towns around the plant.  Government control is unlikely to “end within six months,
one year or two years,” Edano told reporters yesterday. “It
will depend on how well Tepco carries out restructuring
measures.”  The government isn’t ruling out lowering its  voting rights 
to below 50 percent should Tepco fulfill the measures.  Under the plan, the utility aims for an unconsolidated
profit of 106.7 billion yen in the year ending March 2014, based
on an electricity rate increase and the restart of the
Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear station. Nationalization of Tepco
paves the way for the government to restructure the electricity
industry monopolized by regional utilities and possibly break up
power generation and transmission networks to allow more
competition.  ‘Liberalized Market’  “Tepco’s power plants and distribution network need to be
separated into different units,” Tokyo Metropolitan Government
Vice Governor Naoki Inose told reporters at the Foreign
Correspondents’ Club of Japan yesterday. “The point is we need
to build a liberalized market.”  The government has set aside 9 trillion yen as part of the
bailout of Tepco and to pay compensation and cleanup costs
related to radiation leaks from the Fukushima nuclear plant.  Corporate turnaround lawyer Kazuhiko Shimokobe, who leads
the government-backed Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation
Fund, will replace Chairman  Tsunehisa Katsumata , 72. Naomi Hirose, 59, will be promoted to take President Toshio Nishizawa’s job, the company said in a statement May 8.  Katsumata and Nishizawa will officially step down at a
meeting of shareholders in June, Tepco said.  ‘Sweeping Reform’  “Sweeping reform of the power industry requires tremendous
political energy,”  Norihiro Fujito , a senior investment
strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., said
by phone before the release of the business plan. “Bureaucrats,
particularly the trade and industry ministry officials, would
only focus on avoiding the collapse of Tepco.”  Tepco’s unconsolidated net loss for the year ended March is
expected to be 708 billion yen, according to the plan. Losses
will narrow to 201.4 billion yen in the year ending March 2013,
the plan said.  The keys to reviving profitability is getting government
permission to restart a nuclear reactor and to raise power
rates, Takashi Aoki, a Tokyo-based  fund manager  at Mizuho Asset
Management Co., said before the release of the plan.  Last weekend, Japan shut its last operating reactor,
leaving the country without atomic power for the first time in
more than four decades. Japan’s nuclear reactors provided 30
percent of its electricity prior to March 11, 2011.  Electricity Rates  Tepco aims to increase electricity rates for households by
10.28 percent, according to the plan. Utilities need approval
from the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry to raise
electricity charges for households.  The utility plans to raise power tariffs for companies and
other large users by an average of 17 percent from April, it
said Jan. 17. The utility  delayed  the increase in rates for some
corporate customers after failing to explain that they can
reject the new rates if their contracts are still effective on
April 1.  “Nobody thinks the rate hike both for households and
companies would be achieved easily,” Fujito said. “The
business plan provides a blueprint at a moment in time and the
probability of achieving it is very low.”  The utilities powering Japan, the world’s third-biggest
economy, have been forced to turn to coal, oil and gas-fired
plants to keep factories, offices and households supplied with
electricity.  Fuel Costs  Buying and importing those fuels is driving up costs and
may lead to higher electric bills and a further drag on an
economy that’s contracted in three of the past four years. Fuel
costs in the next three years will be about 2.47 trillion yen a
year even if reactors at the Kashiwazaki Kariwa plant are
getting restarted after fiscal 2013, according to the plan.  In the Kansai region, which accounts for about a fifth of
Japan’s economy, output from the main utility  Kansai Electric
Power Co. (9503)  may be 14.9 percent short of peak demand without
nuclear power this summer if the nation experiences a heat wave
similar to the one in 2010, according to a government forecast
on May 7.  Tepco plans to get 1 trillion yen of additional loans from
banks and financial institutions, and aims to resume sales of
corporate bonds in the latter half of this decade, according to
the plan.  About 722.7 billion yen has been paid out in compensation
claims, excluding preliminary payments, as of April 20.  The utility may face 8.6 trillion yen in funding shortages
during the next decade if none of its nuclear reactors come back
online and electricity rates are not increased, a government
panel estimated in October.  Cost Cuts  To gain support from the government and the public, Tepco
plans to cut 3.4 trillion yen in costs over 10 years, up from
the earlier target of 2.6 trillion yen in an initial business
plan announced in November.  The plan, drafted by Tepco and the liability fund, comes
more than a year after the March 11, 2011, earthquake and
tsunami engulfed Japan’s northeast coast, leaving more than
19,000 dead or missing. The failure of backup power at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant caused the worst atomic accident since
Chernobyl in 1986.  Right now, “the business plan is nothing but pie in the
sky,” Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley’s Fujito said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  