-- Junk Overtakes Stocks as Cash Inundates Funds: Credit Markets
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-05-09T16:40:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/junk-overtakes-stocks-as-cash-inundates-funds-credit-markets.html
Junk bonds  are beating stocks by the
most since September, with speculative-grade debt building on
last month’s gains while losses deepen in equities, as investors
seek a haven amid signs the economic recovery is slowing.  Junk bonds have returned 8.3 percent this year through
yesterday, exceeding the 7.2 percent gain for stocks. The notes
have returned 0.51 percent this month, building on April gains
of 0.73 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.
Stocks have  lost  3.2 percent in May, after declining 1.11
percent, according to the MSCI All-Country World Index.  Bonds are drawing cash with the lure of the best returns as
 service industries  in the U.S. expand less than projected and a
backlash against austerity measures in  Europe  drag down the
region’s economy. Returns this year on junk notes, trading above
par for the first time since August, are more than double last
year’s gains of 3.1 percent.  “The concern in the market is that some of the strong
inflows that we’ve been seeing in recent weeks and months have
been chasing that performance, which is impossible to
replicate,” Oleg Melentyev, a credit strategist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Global Research in  New York , said in a
telephone interview.  Funds that buy speculative-grade debt reported $1.84
billion of inflows in the week ended May 2, with more than 85
percent of the cash going toward U.S. high yield, data compiled
by Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR show. That’s the most
since the week ended Feb. 15, when the funds recorded $2.25
billion.  ‘Scared of Equities’  Junk bond returns of 107 percent since the end of 2008 are
double the 53 percent gain in  stocks  worldwide.  “Look at the alternatives,” said Gershon Distenfeld, who
oversees high-yield credit investments at  AllianceBernstein LP (AB) 
in New York. “People are scared of equities. They’re very
volatile. High yield looks pretty good on a risk-adjusted
basis.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, a benchmark gauge of U.S.
company credit risk rose for a fifth day, with the Markit CDX
North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
climbing by 2.4 basis points to a mid-price of 103.3 basis
points as of 12:34 p.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s the highest level since April 11 on an intra-day
basis for the index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Rate Swap Spreads  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, rose for a sixth day, climbing 2.6 basis
points to 33.8 basis points as of 12:34 p.m. in New York. The
gauge, at the highest level since Jan. 30 on an intra-day basis,
widens when investors seek the perceived safety of  government
securities  and narrows when they favor assets such as corporate
bonds.  Bonds of Diageo Plc are the most actively traded dollar-
denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with 111
trades of $1 million or more as of 12:29 p.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The world’s biggest
distiller sold $2.5 billion of bonds yesterday in a three-part
offering.  Junk Advantage  The 3.75 percentage-point advantage in returns for junk
bonds over stocks is the biggest since September, when the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch Global High Yield index lost 3.7
percent and MSCI All-Country World Index tumbled 9.4 percent.  Spreads on high-yield bonds have declined to 653 basis
points from 807 basis points at year-end, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  Investors are plowing money into the riskiest debt as the
U.S. economic recovery stumbles, favoring bonds over stocks, and
default rates remain below the historic average.  The  U.S. economy  will grow 2.3 percent through December,
following expansions of 1.7 percent last year and 3 percent in
2010, according to the median estimate of 74 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Trading Above Par  With speculative-grade companies reporting “healthy”
profits in the first quarter, that’s “the right recipe for
high-yield investors,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by
 Peter Acciavatti  in New York wrote in a May 4 report.  Moody’s Investors Service’s liquidity-stress index fell to
3.9 percent in April, matching a record-low level last seen in
August, the New York-based ratings company said on May 2.  Average high-yield bond prices rose above 100 cents on the
dollar for the first time in eight months on May 3, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  “Further  capital gains  in this market are going to be
limited,” Melentyev said.  Spain,  Greece , Italy and  Portugal  have slid into recession
and  Nicolas Sarkozy  this weekend became the first French
president in 30 years to fail to win re-election amid a region-
wide backlash against austerity. In Greece’s election, the
results cast doubt on whether the two main parties, New
Democracy and Pasok, can form a coalition to implement spending
cuts to ensure the flow of bailout funds after data showed euro-
region services and manufacturing output contracted more than
estimated in April, adding to signs of a deepening economic
slump.  Default Rate  An index that measures the expansion of U.S. service
industries fell to a four-month low of 53.5 in April from 56 in
March, the  Institute for Supply Management  said May 3. That day,
the  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  lost 0.5 percent while high-
yield bonds gained 0.16 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show.  U.S. corporate bonds “are still the best house in a bad
neighborhood,” said Bonnie Baha, head of the global developed
credit group at DoubleLine Capital LP in  Los Angeles , where she
helps oversee $34 billion. “Where else are you going to go with
your money?”  The trailing 12-month global speculative-grade corporate
default rate rose 0.1 percentage point last month to 2.6
percent, Moody’s said yesterday. While that compares with 2.4
percent a year earlier, it’s below the historical average of 4.8
percent since 1983.  The junk market is “becoming more mainstream and the hunt
for yield is aiding that process,” said  Michael Anderson , a
U.S. high-yield strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “The
low default outlook has and will definitely reduce  risk
aversion .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  