-- Kenya’s Nation Media Gains on Advertising Revenue: Nairobi Mover
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-05-09T12:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/kenya-s-nation-media-gains-on-advertising-revenue-nairobi-mover.html
Nation Media Group (NMG) , East Africa’s
biggest media company, rose to its highest in 11 months on
speculation revenue will be boosted by planned expansion and
higher levels of political advertising.  The stock advanced 1.2 percent to 172 shillings by 1:12
p.m. in Nairobi, set for the strongest close since June.  Full-year profit through to December jumped 30 percent to 2
billion shillings ($24 million) as advertising revenue climbed
and the circulation of its newspapers increased, the company
said March 14. NMG, as the company is known, intends to have a
“fully-fledged” news bureau in  South Sudan  within the next two
months and plans to operate a television station in  Tanzania 
upon receiving frequencies from the local regulator, Chief
Executive Officer Linus Giyani said at the time.  “They are diversifying in South Sudan and waiting for an
approval for a television station in Tanzania; all these factors
combined will improve their results this year,” Rufus Mwanyasi,
head trader at Nairobi-based Canaan Capital Ltd. said in a phone
interview today.  Elections for the presidency and other levels of government
in the east African nation are scheduled by March 2013. Kenyan
Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  is the most popular choice for
president, Ipsos-Synovate Ltd. said May 1.  “As we get closer to the elections, revenue from political
advertisement is definitely going to be higher,” Mwanyasi said.  NMG will also venture into the money-transfer business in
partnership with  Diamond Trust Bank Ltd. (DTKL) , Giyani said March 14.
The service will be based on the company’s website, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  