-- Kim Jong Un Bashes ‘Pathetic’ North Korea Fun Park
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-05-10T02:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/kim-assails-pathetic-n-korea-fun-park-in-rare-public-critique.html
North Korea  leader Kim Jong Un
publicly rebuked officials for the “pathetic” management of an
amusement park in Pyongyang in an effort to bolster his image
five months after taking power in the totalitarian state.  Kim toured the Mangyongdae Funfair in the capital and
pointed out a broken pavement and chipped paint on rides while
plucking weeds, the official Korean Central New Agency said
yesterday. Improving the facility should be “an opportunity to
remove outdated ideological views from officials’ heads and end
their old work-style,” KCNA quoted him as saying.  Kim, believed to be under 30, became head of the country
after his father  Kim Jong Il  died in December, inheriting an
economy isolated through global sanctions and wracked by
malnutrition. His condemnation of the conditions at the
amusement park may be the latest effort to shore up his power
base by reinforcing an image as an engaged leader, said analysts
including Park Young Ho.  “This is Kim’s blatant effort to appeal to the public as 
a young leader thoroughly engaged in improving the people’s
economic lives,” said Park, of the state-run Korea Institute
for National Unification in  Seoul . “The strong words he uses to
censure the officials show just how desperately he’s trying to
gather public support.”  Choe Ryong Hae, director of the General Political Bureau of
the Korean People’s Army, was assigned to spruce up the park,
KCNA reported. Choe is the son of a revolutionary who fought
against Japanese colonial forces alongside  Kim Il Sung , North
Korea’s founder and grandfather of the current leader.  Kim’s comments that the funfair’s appearance is “an issue
concerning ideological viewpoint” doesn’t reflect a departure
from the regime’s socialist philosophy, Park said.  Hitting Bureaucrats  “His quote strikes more at bureaucracy than ideology,” he
said.  Koh Yu Hwan, a professor of North Korean studies at  Dongguk
University  in Seoul, said Kim’s comments are intended more to
convey warmth to his people than to scold officials. The
comments deviate from Kim’s father and grandfather and show how
circumstances for the new leader have changed, Koh said.  “Kim Jong Il and Kim Il Sung have never publicly shown
such detailed interest in weeds or chipping paint because they
never needed to justify themselves to the people like that,” he
said.  The trip to the fun park came a day after Kim Jong Un
issued a statement on the need to “give a face-lift to the land
of the country to suit a thriving socialist nation,” according
to KCNA.  The North Korean economy is one-fortieth the size of  South
Korea ’s, leaving the government dependent on handouts from
 China , its biggest ally.  Deepening Isolation  The North’s isolation has deepened since the  United Nations 
expanded sanctions and the U.S. scrapped a food aid deal after
Kim’s government defied global condemnation and launched a
rocket that disintegrated within minutes. The failure prompted
speculation the regime will detonate a nuclear device to regain
face.  North Korea remains technically at war with South Korea
since the 1950-53 conflict ended without a formal peace treaty.
The North’s bellicose rhetoric against its southern neighbor has
heightened since the botched rocket test, last month threatening
to turn South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  and his
administration “to ashes in three or four minutes.”  South Korea will file a complaint to international
organizations against North Korea for jamming its commercial
planes and ships’ global positioning systems, the Ministry of
Land Transport and Maritime Affairs said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  