-- King Confronts Slump Threat as BOE Seen Halting Stimulus
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-05-10T09:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/king-confronts-slump-threat-as-boe-seen-halting-stimulus.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
is about to make the policy decision that may define his final
year in office.  The central bank’s nine-member Monetary Policy Committee
will today halt  bond purchases  at 325 billion pounds ($524
billion), ending a second round of stimulus, according to 43 of
51 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The remainder see an
increase of at least 25 billion pounds in the biggest split on
the direction of policy since October, when the bank
unexpectedly restarted quantitative easing.  King must navigate competing arguments on what’s best for
an economy trying to shake off its first  double-dip recession 
since 1975 while enduring faster-than-forecast inflation. The
risk is that getting it wrong may worsen the slump or entrench
price gains, complicating the task facing his successor, who
will take charge in little more than a year.  “It’s a very difficult backdrop and this isn’t the final
year he’d like from the point of view of policy,” said  David Tinsley , an economist at BNP Paribas SA and former Bank of
England official. “The risks of more QE are around 40 percent,
it’s a pretty fine line. Inevitably he’ll be charged with a
policy error.”  The MPC will make its decision with new quarterly economic
forecasts to be published next week. King, whose second term
ends in June 2013, will defend the actions at a press conference
May 16 and face questions from lawmakers in the coming weeks.  Europe Threats  The central bank will announce the decision at noon in
London. In February 2010, the bank released a statement when it
decided not to expand stimulus after finishing its first round
of bond purchases.  Industrial production  fell 0.3 percent in March from the
previous month, in line with economists’ forecasts, data today
showed. In the first quarter, production dropped 0.4 percent.  Reports last week indicated  manufacturing  and services
weakened last month after the economy shrank 0.2 percent in the
first quarter.  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s third-largest
supermarket company, said yesterday that the “wider economic
situation remains uncertain.”  In  Europe , Britain’s biggest trading partner,  Spain  is
struggling to contain speculation it will need a bailout, while
political stalemate in  Greece  after elections has raised
concerns the country may leave the currency bloc.  Gilts Gain  The risks in the region have pushed the euro to its weakest
in 3 1/2 years against the pound. Gilts have risen as investors
sought the relative safety of U.K. government debt, pushing the
 10-year gilt yield  to a record low. The yield was at 1.917
percent as of 8:42 a.m. in London, after dropping to 1.881
yesterday, the lowest since Bloomberg began compiling the data
in 1989.  “The background for the BOE’s decision is a euro crisis
which is looking even more of a downside risk, and a U.K.
economy in recession,” said Victoria Cadman, an economist at
Investec Securities in  London . “Even an inflation hawk would be
fairly worried about that.”  Consumer-price growth  accelerated to 3.5 percent in March,
remaining above the Bank of England’s 2 percent target for a
28th month, and inflation concerns are mounting.  Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said April 18 the
“uncomfortably above target” rate could hold above 3 percent
into the second half of the year. Policy maker  Adam Posen  ended
a push for further stimulus last month and minutes of that
meeting said there was a risk that inflation may “fall less
rapidly” than projected.  Inflation Overshoot  “The concerns on inflation make it inappropriate to expand
stimulus at this time,” said  Brian Hilliard , an economist at
Societe Generale SA in London and a former central bank
official. “The bank has been somewhat wounded by the continual
criticism about the overshoot of the inflation numbers.”  Minutes of today’s decision will be published May 23 and
may reveal a split among policy makers.  David Miles , the only
MPC member to vote for more stimulus last month, has since said
that decision looks vindicated, while  Martin Weale  said data
showing the U.K. slipped back into recession strengthened the
argument for more QE.  Today’s announcement comes as King is already facing
criticism for his handling of the financial crisis and for
lending political support to the Conservative-led government. He
drew fire from the opposition  Labour Party  for describing the
government’s fiscal squeeze as a “textbook response” to the
turmoil in a BBC radio interview on the day of municipal
elections last week.  ‘Slow Recovery’  King also said that despite a “patchy picture,” the U.K.
should “start to see a steady, slow recovery coming during the
course of the year.” To support the recovery,  interest rates 
are likely to remain low “for the time being,” he said. All 61
economists in a survey see the MPC holding the  benchmark rate  at
a record low of 0.5 percent today.  Even if the bank pauses today, the stimulus program may yet
be revived.  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , owner of Britain’s
Clydesdale Bank, said April 30 it will cut more than 1,400 jobs
in the U.K. after the deteriorating local economy torpedoed
plans to sell the unprofitable business. William Morrison
Supermarkets Plc said May 3 that the economic background will
“remain challenging for the consumer.”  “If they get the kind of news they hope for on inflation
in a few months’ time, then they will reconsider,” Hilliard
said. “A debate about QE is going to be seriously back on the
table between three and six months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  