-- Kinross CEO Says Miners Face ‘New Reality’ as Costs Rise
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-05-09T20:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/kinross-ceo-burt-says-miners-face-new-reality-as-costs-rise.html
Kinross Gold Corp. (K) , a Canadian
producer that’s lost more than a third of its value this year,
said miners face a “new reality” of surging costs and
decreasing investor tolerance for risk.  “The bottom line is that growth is getting more expensive
and the market has become increasingly risk averse,” Chief
Executive Officer Tye Burt said today at the annual
 shareholders’ meeting  in Toronto, where the company is based.
“We see a new reality in the mining world.”  Burt is seeking to stem declines in the company’s  share
price , after Kinross took a $2.49 billion writedown in the
fourth quarter on a Mauritanian mine it bought 17 months earlier
in its C$8 billion ($8 billion) acquisition of Red Back Mining
Inc. Other gold producers have also fallen, as miners report
rising costs to build and operate projects. The 16-company  NYSE
Arca Gold BUGS Index (HUI)  has dropped 18 percent this year, while
gold futures in  New York  gained 1.6 percent.  “We’re not alone, gold equities as a whole have
significantly delinked from the gold price,” Burt said at the
meeting.  Burt said Kinross also declined because it issued stock to
pay for the Red Back acquisition, which closed in September
2010. The performance of the company’s shares is a “key
concern” for Kinross directors and management, he said.  ‘Strong Case’  “We still believe there’s a strong case to be made for
equities,” Burt said. “Gold stocks can deliver upside that’s
driven by growth investment in new mines, by leverage to the
gold price driven by higher reserves, by improved margins and by
dividends,” none of which gold-backed exchange-traded funds can
deliver.  Kinross has  fallen  34 percent this year and lost 61 percent
of its value since the Red Back deal closed. The stock is “at
an attractive purchase level,” Burt said. He declined to
comment on whether the company may draw takeover interest.  Kinross fell 1 percent to C$7.67 at the close in Toronto,
giving the company a market value of C$8.73 billion.  The company said in February it would delay development of
projects in  Chile  and  Ecuador  and concentrate on expanding its
Tasiast mine in Mauritania and a new mine it’s building in
 Russia . Kinross decided to prioritize its spending as project
costs rise because of labor, equipment and raw-material
inflation, Burt said.  ‘Tough Markets’  “In this capital cost environment, moving rapidly is going
to escalate costs very quickly,” he told reporters after the
meeting. “That prioritization on what’s the best grade, the
best performance, the best ‘bang for your buck’ is a critical
step in today’s tough markets.”  The company still sees Tasiast as an “outstanding
opportunity,” Burt said.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s biggest gold producer, may
develop the Cerro Casale mine in Chile in phases as  capital
costs  for large projects increase, Chief Executive Officer Aaron
Regent said last week. Barrick owns 75 percent of the project
and Kinross owns the rest.  While Kinross isn’t considering more acquisitions, the
company may sell assets that it views as “non-core,” Burt
said.  “Perhaps our residual interest in Cerro Casale, perhaps
our non-operated joint venture in  Brazil , there’s a couple of
smaller assets that just don’t move the needle for us anymore,”
he said. Kinross owns 50 percent of the Crixas underground mine
in Brazil, while  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  owns the rest and is the
operator.  “We could do something bigger, but it’s a difficult
environment for asset sales given everyone’s under pressure in
their market multiples,” Burt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 