-- Kocherlakota Says Fed May Need to Tighten in Nine Months
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-05-09T15:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/kocherlakota-says-fed-may-need-to-cut-stimulus-in-nine-months.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said the central bank may need
to begin withdrawing its record monetary stimulus in six to nine
months.  “It’s an appropriate time to start thinking about when to
begin the process of reversing the level of accommodation,”
Kocherlakota said today in response to audience questions after
a speech in Minneapolis. “Six to nine months down the road, we
should be thinking about initiating our exit strategy.”  Kocherlakota’s view contrasts with the plans of the  Federal
Open Market Committee , which reiterated on April 25 that the Fed
will probably need to keep its main interest rate near zero
through at least late 2014. Unemployment is declining and
inflation has picked up, two conditions that call for less
monetary stimulus, the  Minneapolis  Fed chief said.  “I don’t see a need for additional accommodation,” said
Kocherlakota, who doesn’t vote on policy this year. Still, if
economic “shocks” push up unemployment or slow inflation, “it
would be very natural for us to be buying additional mortgage-
backed securities,” he said.  Fed officials last met April 24-25, where they upgraded
their forecasts for growth, unemployment and inflation for the
year. The FOMC also said the recovery will pick up gradually
even as “significant downside risks” remain in global
financial markets.  Political Impasse  Reports since then have pointed to a less optimistic
outlook. Employers added 115,000 positions in April, the fewest
in six months, Labor Department data showed May 4. Spanish
default risk has also climbed to a record with Greece’s
political impasse after its election, prompting concerns that
the  European debt crisis  may further weigh on global growth.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said
yesterday on Twitter that a third round of quantitative easing
is “getting closer.”  Jan Hatzius , chief economist at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., has also said that the Fed will announce more
stimulus in June.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.5 percent to
1,357.35 at 11:27 a.m. in  New York , while the yield on the 10-
year Treasury fell two basis points to 1.82 percent.  Kocherlakota said in his speech today that the central bank
should open up policy making more to public view by detailing
how it would respond to a range of changes to the economy.  “While I think that we should all take great pride in the
recent improvements in FOMC communication, there is still more
that can be done,” he said.  “Communication, while always
important, is especially so today” with the Fed’s main  interest
rate  at a record low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  