-- Kocherlakota Says Fed Should Be More Open About Monetary Policy
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-05-09T13:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/kocherlakota-says-fed-should-be-more-open-about-monetary-policy.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  Minneapolis 
President Narayana Kocherlakota said the central bank should
open up policy making more to public view while detailing how it
would respond to a range of changes to the economy.  “While I think that we should all take great pride in the
recent improvements in FOMC communication, there is still more
that can be done,” Kocherlakota said in the text of remarks
given in Minneapolis today.  “Communication, while always
important, is especially so today” with the Fed’s main  interest
rate  at a record low.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  last month reiterated its
plan to hold the main interest rate close to zero through at
least late 2014, citing high unemployment. A report indicating
slowing U.S. job growth last month and tensions in  Europe ’s debt
crisis have prompted investors including Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  to predict a greater likelihood the
Fed will increase accommodation.  “One way to vary monetary stimulus today is to influence
the public’s expectations of how long the fed funds rate will
stay so low -- and how fast the fed funds rate will rise when it
does start to rise,” Kocherlakota said.  The Minneapolis Fed chief cited a number of ways that the
central bank has already tried to make itself more open,
including Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s quarterly press conferences
and the release of officials’ forecasts for the federal funds
rate.  ‘Surprisingly Negative’  A “contingency plan” would “allow the public to know the
kind of scenarios -- both surprisingly positive and surprisingly
negative -- under consideration by the committee,” Kocherlakota
said. It would also “inform the public about how the committee
plans to react to those scenarios,” he said.  Fed officials last met April 24-25, where they upgraded
their forecasts for growth, unemployment and inflation for the
year. The FOMC also said the recovery will pick up gradually
even as “significant downside risks” remain in global
financial markets.  Reports released since then have pointed to a less
optimistic outlook. U.S. employers added 115,000 positions in
April, marking the slowest pace of job growth in six months, a
Labor Department report showed May 4. Spanish default risk has
also climbed to a record with  Greece ’s political impasse after
its election, prompting concerns that the  European debt crisis 
may further weigh on global growth.  PIMCO’s Gross said yesterday on Twitter that a third round
of quantitative easing is “getting closer.”  Jan Hatzius , chief
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., has also said that the
Fed will announce more stimulus in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  