-- KPN Has Board Defense Should America Movil Bid Go Hostile
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-05-10T15:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/kpn-has-board-defense-should-america-movil-bid-go-hostile.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Dutch phone company
that rejected an unsolicited 2.6 billion-euro ($3.4 billion)
offer for a stake by  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil SAB (AMXL) , has a
defense in the event of a hostile takeover bid.  An independent foundation has the responsibility for
defending KPN “from influences that may threaten the
continuity, independence and identity” of the company,
according to KPN’s annual report. If the foundation’s board sees
a threat, it may invoke an option to acquire from KPN Class B
preference stock, which carries  voting rights , not exceeding the
total issue of ordinary shares, minus one share.  The arrangement may act as a safeguard for KPN’s ownership
structure after the former state-controlled operator said May 8
that  America Movil ’s 8-euro per share cash offer is too low and
it hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JP Morgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to
explore strategic options. The KPN bid marks the biggest
investment by Slim, the world’s richest man, outside his Latin
American phone empire.  “If they would do that, it would be to force a better
price,” said Corne van Zeijl, a Den Bosch, Netherlands-based
 fund manager  at SNS Asset Management, referring to the defense
mechanism. Van Zeijl, who oversees about 1 billion euros
including KPN shares, said he hadn’t contacted KPN’s management
on America Movil’s offer.  Takeover Vehicle?  Stefan Simons, a KPN spokesman in The Hague, declined to
comment, as did a representative for America Movil. Peter Wakkie, a member of the foundation’s board, said in an e-mail
that he didn’t want to comment on the latest developments.  KPN shares rose 0.4 percent to 7.75 euros at 5:22 p.m. in
Amsterdam. America Movil was unchanged at 17.2 pesos in Mexico
City, where the company is based.  KPN jumped 17 percent on May 8 as America Movil offered to
acquire as much as a 28 percent holding. The company already
owns 4.8 percent.  Morgan Stanley accumulated a 10 percent stake in KPN,
according to a filing dated May 4 disclosed on the AFM
regulator’s website today. The transaction didn’t take place on
behalf of America Movil, Claire Verhagen, an outside spokeswoman
for the company in the Netherlands, said by phone.  If its offer is successful, America Movil has no immediate
plans to increase its holding, and would probably not evaluate
buying more shares for at least a year, according to a person
familiar with its plans. KPN could eventually be used as a
vehicle for further acquisitions in Europe, the person said.  While telecommunications companies in Europe have to
contend with line losses, changing technology and regulatory
scrutiny, Slim is accustomed to such challenges, said Richard Dineen, an analyst at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in  New York .  Mandatory Offer  “He knows what these businesses are about,” Dineen said
in a phone interview. “He can see the longer-term horizon, see
the value and be comfortable and patient and see things improve.
There are fundamentally decent businesses that are
undervalued.”  Both KPN and America Movil said they hadn’t held talks
prior to the offer. America Movil has no plan to fully take over
KPN, which also owns assets in  Germany ,  Belgium  and  Spain , Chief
Financial Officer Carlos Garcia-Moreno said May 8.  In the Netherlands, holders of a 30 percent stake in a
public company are obliged to make an bid for all outstanding
shares. By offering to increase its stake to as much as 28
percent, America Movil is leaving little room for a competitor
to present a better proposal without triggering a full takeover
attempt, Dineen said. He has a neutral  rating  on America Movil.  Europe Plans  The bid paves the way for agreements with KPN over roaming,
marketing and joint purchasing, Garcia-Moreno said on a
conference call on May 8.  Slim is taking advantage of  Europe ’s debt crisis to look
for bargains in the region. The KPN offer follows failed
attempts in the past decade to enter Spain and  Italy , and
America Movil also considered purchases in the past 18 months in
Poland and Serbia.  In the event the KPN foundation decides to trigger the
defense mechanism, the preference shares would be canceled
“relatively shortly after issuance,” KPN said in its 2011
report, adding that the likelihood of the option being exercised
is “remote.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  