-- N.J. Union-Work Leaves Cost Taxpayers More Than $30 Million
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-05-09T18:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/n-j-finds-paid-leave-for-union-work-costs-taxpayers-millions.html
New Jersey  paid more than $30 million
over five years for labor representatives to conduct union
business while on leave from government jobs, according to a
State Commission of Investigation report.  One teachers union official in Brick received $1,375 in
“perfect attendance” bonuses “even though he devotes all of
his work time to union business,” the report found. Eleven
officers with the state Corrections Department don’t report to
prison jobs and still qualify for overtime.  The time off for union work, authorized by “confusing and
inconsistent statutory language,” came with salary and benefits
for members of the New Jersey Education Association, the
 Communications Workers of America , the American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees, and other bargaining
units.  “Although it is not uncommon, nor is it necessarily
improper, for government employers to grant some form of time
off for union work, the commission found significant and
questionable variations in how such leave is authorized, who
qualifies for it, who keeps track of it, how it is constituted
and who ultimately pays the bill,” the report stated.  Recommended Overhaul  The commission, authorized in 1968 to investigate organized
crime, corruption and abuses of taxpayer resources, based its
report on a sample of contracts from more than 120 school
districts, all 21 counties, 17 municipalities and 12 state
government departments from 2006 through 2011.  “Some union officials have been on paid leave for years or
even decades while occupying government job titles but doing no
government work,” the report stated.  In  Newark , New Jersey’s largest city, the cost of police
and fire union officials’ salaries and benefits while on union
business was more than $7.8 million from January 2006 to June
2011. In some cases, union officials receive an automobile and
gas provided by taxpayers, investigators found.  The commission recommended that the state eliminate or
“substantially curtail” such taxpayer-funded leaves. It also
encouraged uniform rules subject to full public disclosure, in
light of “sidebar” contract agreements, incomplete records and
a lack of legally required pension paperwork.  “Arrangements for paid union leave often are handled in
ways that tend to defeat public transparency, oversight and
accountability,” the report stated.  Negotiated Leave  Kevin Roberts  and  Michael Drewniak , spokesmen for Governor
 Chris Christie , didn’t respond to e-mailed requests for comment.
Last year the New Jersey Education Association, the state’s
largest teachers union, spent almost $11 million on ads, many of
them attacking Christie, 49, a Republican midway through his
first term who has called for stricter teacher tenure rules and
expanded charter schools.  “Despite what are sure to be attempts to politicize this
report, we know that after months of intensive investigation, no
evidence of any wrongdoing has emerged,” Barbara Keshishian,
president of the 196,000-member NJEA, said in a statement.
“Negotiated release time for union members and leaders to
attend to union business is a common and longstanding practice
in both private-and public-sector employment.”  Keshishian is a math teacher on leave from New Milford High
School. Her 2009 base pay, deferred compensation and non-taxable
benefits totaled $334,377, according to the union's publically
available tax returns.  Marcia Genova, president of the Atlantic City Education
Association, which the report said reimburses the school
district for a representative’s compensation, said she hadn’t
seen the report and declined to comment.  Rae Roeder, president of the 7,000-member CWA Local 1033
who has been on leave from her Department of Education job since
1996, didn’t respond to a voicemail message for comment on the
report. Representatives of AFSCME, the Brick Township Teachers
Association and the Trenton Education Association didn’t respond
to messages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  