-- N.J. Revenue Trails Budget as Christie Touts Comeback
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-05-09T18:04:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/n-j-revenue-trails-budget-as-christie-touts-comeback.html
New Jersey receipts from income and
corporate taxes fell short of Governor  Chris Christie ’s budget
targets last month and appear to be on pace to trail the same
period a year earlier, according to legislative analysts.  Preliminary information indicates collections from both
levies fell in April, according to a May 3 memo from the
nonpartisan Office of Legislative Services. The e-mail to
lawmakers, which was obtained by Bloomberg News, said a detailed
figure won’t be available until May 14.  Christie, a first-term Republican, has traveled the state
to tout the beginning of a “Jersey Comeback.” His budget
forecast an increase in receipts last month compared with April
2011. His proposed spending plan for the year that starts in
July counts on rising revenue to help fund a 10 percent tax cut.  “This just fuels that the Jersey Comeback is basically
just a myth at this point in time and we need to get past those
sound bites,” Assembly Budget Committee Chairman Vincent Prieto
said in an interview today. “Is it a substantial number? I
don’t know. We need to see the whole big picture.”  Michael Drewniak , a Christie spokesman, said the governor’s
office is still reviewing collections for April and the fiscal
year to date, and it’s too early to draw conclusions.  “Assemblyman Prieto has no business criticizing our
constant and constructive efforts to fix a decade of obsessive
overtaxing and overspending by him and his Democratic
colleagues,” Drewniak said in an e-mail.  Economic Recovery  Christie, 49, has pitched his case for the across-the-board
rollback in personal income levies in town-hall meetings
statewide. The current debate over tax levels is proof that the
recovery is stirring, Christie said yesterday during a public
forum at a National Guard in Freehold.  “It isn’t happening fast enough,” he said. “We still
have too many people out of work, but it’s getting there and
we’re making progress and moving in the right direction.”  Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff declined to give details
or estimated April collections during testimony to lawmakers in
Trenton today. The administration will detail the figures early
next week in a monthly revenue report, he said.  Prieto, a Secaucus Democrat, said he wasn’t satisfied with
Sidamon-Eristoff’s pledge to provide the figures next week. The
Treasury Department tracks daily collections and should release
the most recent data for April, he said.  ‘Positive Momentum’  April is typically the largest month for income-tax
collections because it includes the filing deadline. Sidamon-
Eristoff, in an April 16 statement, said revenue for that month
would be “key in helping the administration maintain this
positive momentum in the fiscal year.”  The current spending plan calls for a balance of $580
million at the end of the fiscal year on June 30, Prieto said.
Any drop in revenue could lower the state’s starting balance for
next year and make Christie’s tax cuts difficult, he said.  Christie has prodded Democrats who control the Legislature
to pass his tax-cut plan. Democrats in both chambers have made
counterproposals that focus on giving middle-class residents
property-tax credits on their income-tax returns.  Senate President Stephen Sweeney has proposed a 10 percent
credit. Assembly Democrats want to give 20 percent credits and
fund them partly through a tax increase on those making $1
million or more. Christie has said revenue growth alone will be
enough to fund his cuts and that he’ll veto any tax increases.  ‘Optimistic’ Projections  Christie’s proposed $32.1 billion budget for fiscal 2013
counts on a 7.3 percent gain in revenue, the most for a year
since before the last recession began in December 2007.  Standard & Poor’s  said in February that Christie’s spending
plan relies on “optimistic” revenue assumptions.  David Rosen ,
chief budget analyst for the Legislative Services office, said
in March that revenue may trail Christie’s estimates this fiscal
year and next as taxes on income and casinos fall short.  In March, collections missed Christie’s budget target by
$46.4 million, or 2.5 percent, according to the state Treasury
Department. Income taxes lagged behind projections by 6.4
percent, sales levies fell short by 5 percent and collections
from corporations trailed by 3.9 percent.  Revenue for the nine months through March came in about
$46.4 million, or 0.3 percent, under forecast, according to the
department. Receipts from income, sales and business levies each
were less than 1 percent short of budget estimates.  “My gut feeling is that the numbers aren’t so bad that
we’ll have to make any cuts” to the current budget, said
Assemblyman Declan O’Scanlon, the ranking Republican on the
budget panel. “We’ll just have to wait and see.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  