-- Natixis’s First-Quarter Profit Declines 55% on Debt Charge
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-05-09T17:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/natixis-s-first-quarter-profit-falls-55-on-debt-charge-trading.html
Natixis SA (KN) ,  France ’s best-performing
banking stock this year, said first-quarter profit dropped 55
percent, hurt by one-time charges on its own debt and lower
trading revenue.  Net income fell to 185 million euros ($240 million) from
412 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based bank said in a
statement today. That missed the 294 million-euro average
estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Natixis booked
a 202 million-euro one-time accounting charge stemming from a
rule that requires banks to book a loss if the price of their
debt rises.  Revenue at Natixis’s capital-markets business, down 10
percent from a year earlier, increased 80 percent from the
fourth quarter as  European Central Bank ’s three-year refinancing
to the region banks helped unlock debt markets.  “We had a very positive start of the year,” Chief
Executive Officer Laurent Mignon said on a conference call.
Still, “the environment has been less favorable since mid-
March,” he said, declining to give further details.  Asset Reductions  Natixis and its parent, Groupe BPCE, are navigating
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis with smaller risks compared with
rivals. Mignon said last month that Natixis is about halfway to
its target, announced in November, of reducing corporate- and
investment-banking assets by an additional 10 billion euros. The
company already trimmed risk-weighted assets by 64 billion euros
between the start of 2009 and the end of 2011.  “We’ve continued to reduce, as indicated, our risk-
weighted assets and the liquidity requirements of our
businesses, further reinforcing our solvency,” Mignon said.  Natixis is among French banks reducing corporate-financing
businesses funded in dollars after U.S. money-market funds
reduced short-term lending to European banks last year.  Profit excluding non-operating items fell 30 percent to 339
million euros, Natixis said.  The shares have risen 10 percent this year in Paris
trading, giving the firm a market value of 6.6 billion euros.
BNP Paribas SA, France’s largest bank, declined 6.5 percent in
the period, while Societe Generale SA, the country’s second-
biggest lender, fell 2.6 percent.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , France’s
No. 3 bank, dropped 23 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  