-- Natural Gas Rises to Two-Month High on Inventory Outlook
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-05-09T19:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/natural-gas-rises-to-two-month-high-on-inventory-outlook.html
Natural gas futures closed at a two-
month high for a second day in  New York  on speculation that a
supply surplus declined last week because of slowing production
and rising demand from power plants.  Gas gained 3 percent before an Energy Department report
tomorrow that may show an increase in U.S. inventories of 32
billion cubic feet, based on a median of 14  analyst estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. The five-year average gain for the week
is 84 billion. The department  yesterday  cut its output growth
estimate by 0.1 percent and said demand from electricity
generators will jump 21 percent this year.  “It means that things have turned, as far as the storage
situation, and as the summer moves on we are going to begin to
eat into the surplus,” said Brad Florer, a trader at Kottke
Associates LLC in Louisville,  Kentucky . “The bounce definitely
has teeth and there seem to be reasons for it instead of some
short-covering.”  Natural gas for June delivery rose 7.2 cents to $2.465 per
million British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest settlement price since March 2. The
futures have rebounded 29 percent since closing at a 10-year low
of $1.907 on April 19.  October $1.50 puts, bets that prices will fall, were the
most active options in electronic trading on the exchange. They
fell 0.3 cent to 2.1 cents per million Btu on volume of 1,231
contracts at 2:42 p.m.  The price discount, or spread, of the June contract to July
futures widened by 0.3 cent to 8.5 cents.  Narrower Surplus  A  supply surplus  in the week ended April 27 narrowed to 50
percent above the five-year average from a six-year high of 61
percent at the end of March, Energy Department data show. A
below-average inventory gain for the week ended May 4 would
narrow the surplus for the fifth straight week.  Marketed gas production in the U.S. will average 69.14
billion cubic feet a day this year, down from 69.22 billion
estimated in April, the Energy Department said in its Short-Term
Energy Outlook yesterday. The total was up 4.4 percent from a
record 66.22 billion produced in 2011.  The data suggests production growth has halted, “not that
it has fallen to a level that will provide reliable ongoing
support,”  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in New York, said in a note to clients yesterday.
Instead, the market will depend on utility demand that “may
mean both increased sensitivity to swings in temperature as well
as risk of losing some market share to coal if natural gas
prices rise too far.”  Power Plants  Power generators may consume a record amount of gas this
year as they switch from more expensive coal. Large gains in gas
use by power plants “will offset declines” in residential and
consumer demand crimped by an unusually warm winter, the
department said in its monthly report.  Consumption at gas-fired power plants will peak at 31.2
billion cubic feet a day in the third quarter, when air
conditioning use is the highest, up from 27.7 billion a year
earlier.  There is some concern that  power plants  will switch back to
coal if gas pushes past $2.50 per million Btu, Florer said.  Power generation  in the U.S. rose 9.8 percent to 74,130
gigawatt-hours in the week ended May 5 from a year earlier, the
Edison Electric Institute in  Washington  said today.  Cooling demand that week was more than double normal levels
across the U.S. as central and southern states showed some of
the biggest gains, according to Weather Derivatives. The Belton,
Missouri-based forecaster said air conditioning use will be
below normal for the week ending May 16.  Texas Weather  Temperatures will be below average in  Texas  through May 18
while above-normal temperatures on the West Coast will spread to
the Northeast during the same period, according to MDA EarthSat
Weather in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  The high in  Dallas  on May 18 will be 80 degrees Fahrenheit
(27 Celsius), 5 below normal, according to AccuWeather Inc. in
 State College ,  Pennsylvania . Chicago may see a high of 82
degrees that day, 11 above normal.  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
449,103 as of 2:36 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 361,000. Volume was 443,871 yesterday. Open interest was 1.23
million contracts. The three-month average is 1.25 million.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open
interest and full volume data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net .
NI NUSMKT 