-- Neeleman’s Azul Adds Jobs as Fleet Grows While Rivals Shrink
-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 2012-05-09T18:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/neeleman-s-azul-adds-jobs-as-fleet-grows-while-rivals-shrink-1-.html
Azul Linhas Aereas Brasileiras SA, the
Brazilian airline startup founded by  David Neeleman , plans to
hire about 300 flight-crew members this year as its fleet
expands while competitors retrench.  Rising traffic at  Brazil ’s third-biggest domestic carrier
will let Azul add 12 new planes this year, Neeleman, the founder
of U.S. carrier  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) , told reporters today in
Sao Paulo. Closely held Azul serves mostly secondary airports,
compared with rivals flying between the busiest destinations.  “If our competitors aren’t growing, it is because they’re
doing things differently from us,” said Neeleman, 52. “In the
areas we fly to, cities that haven’t had regular airline service
for a long time, there’s no drop in demand, it remains strong.”  Azul’s new planes and people follow through on Neeleman’s
December prediction that the Sao Paulo-based airline would
expand when  Tam SA (TAMM4)  and  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4) ,
Brazil’s biggest carriers, had to pull back. Both have cut their
forecast for growth in 2012 seating capacity as demand softens.  Last month, Gol fired 131 flight crew and eliminated 80 of
its 900 daily flights to ensure a “flight-crew size that’s in
line with the company’s operational needs,” according to an e-
mailed statement.  Azul is seeking approval from Brazil’s aviation regulator,
known as Anac, begin flights to 10 new domestic destinations,
said Neeleman, whose Brazilian birth allows him to own an
airline in the country in compliance with local law. A temporary
route to Punta del Este, in neighboring Uruguay, will open at
year’s end, Neeleman said.  The airline’s fleet now consists of 54 planes, chiefly
regional jets from Brazil’s  Embraer SA. (EMBR3)  Azul will receive 20 new
aircraft this year and return eight leased planes, Neeleman
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in Sao Paulo at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  