-- New York Policeman Asks to Add Free-Speech Claim to Suit
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-05-09T19:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/new-york-policeman-asks-to-add-free-speech-claim-to-suit.html
A  New York  police officer who claims
he was locked in a psychiatric ward after documenting corruption
in the department told a judge he wants to amend his $50 million
lawsuit against the city to add a claim that his free speech
rights were violated.  A lawyer for Adrian Schoolcraft asked U.S. District Judge
Robert Sweet today for permission to change his client’s
complaint to include a claim the city violated his right to go
public with reports that officers were told to falsify crime and
arrest statistics.  “He was speaking out to the public about a matter of
public concern,” Joshua Fitch, the lawyer, said in a hearing
today in  Manhattan  federal court.  Schoolcraft, who sued the city in August 2010, said police
officials illegally tried to intimidate him and retaliate after
he revealed an alleged policy requiring officers to boost
arrests, falsify reports and suborn perjury to manipulate crime
statistics.  Fitch said in an interview outside court that the city
violated Schoolcraft’s free-speech rights by trying to prevent
him from reporting the misconduct internally and blocking him
from talking to the press.  William Fraenkel, a lawyer for the city, told Sweet that
reporting misconduct is part of a police officer’s job, and
therefore isn’t covered by the First Amendment.  Sweet didn’t say when he will rule on Schoolcraft’s
request.  New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  is founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg
News.  The case is Schoolcraft v. The City of New York, 10-06005,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  