-- New Zealand House Market Weakens in April as Recovery Moderates
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-05-09T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/new-zealand-house-market-weakens-in-april-as-recovery-moderates.html
New Zealand   house prices  fell in
April, reversing some of the prior month’s gains, amid a
moderate recovery in the nation’s residential property market
this year.  Prices fell 0.3 percent from March when they rose 1.9
percent, according to an index published by the  Real Estate
Institute of New Zealand  today. Sales fell 4.1 percent, the
institute said, citing seasonally adjusted figures.  Last month’s declines add to the case for the central bank
to prolong a period of record-low  interest rates  until next year.
Eleven of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast the
 official cash rate  will stay at 2.5 percent until next year.
Four see a quarter-point rise before Dec. 31.  “Activity levels in the real estate market have eased
slightly,” REINZ Chief Executive Helen O’Sullivan said in an e-
mailed statement. The trend in prices is still up, she said.  Prices rose 2.5 percent in the past three months and are
2.7 percent higher than a year ago, today’s report showed.  “House prices are rising again and a significant
resurgence would be of concern” given their relativity to
incomes and rents, the central bank said in its Financial
Stability Report yesterday.  High  household debt  is expected to prevent the sort of
price momentum that was seen last decade, it said. Prices jumped
22 percent in 2003 and 15 percent in 2005, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Excluding seasonal adjustment, house sales fell to 5,676 in
April from 7,330 in March, which was the highest since November
2007, the institute said. Sales rose 13.8 percent from a year
earlier, it said.  The time needed to sell a house rose to 37 days from 35
days in March, today’s report showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  