-- News Corp.’s Cameron Ties Scrutinized as Brooks Testifies
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-05-09T11:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/news-corp-s-cameron-ties-scrutinized-as-brooks-coulson-testify.html
The media-ethics inquiry triggered by
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s phone-hacking scandal will hear evidence this week
from the former chief executive officer of its U.K. unit and the
tabloid editor who resigned over the practice in 2007.  Rebekah Brooks, who stepped down from the company’s top
U.K. role in July, and  Andy Coulson , who edited the now-defunct
News of the World when the scandal started, will testify in
London over two days starting tomorrow. The inquiry may avoid
voice-mail interception questions because both have been
arrested in probes of phone hacking and haven’t been charged.  The hearing will instead put the spotlight the pair’s close
ties to Prime Minister  David Cameron  as the inquiry examines
News Corp.’s relationship with lawmakers. The company’s critics
and victims have argued its often cozy links to government
prevented the extent of the scandal from being uncovered sooner.  “This will be a bad week for the  Conservative party , as
the media glare will refocus on the closeness between senior
conservatives and senior executives at News Corp.’s U.K. unit,”
said Niri Shan, who leads the media practice at Taylor Wessing
LLP in London. Cameron is “potentially concerned about
something Coulson or Brooks may say.”  Cameron sent a text message to Brooks shortly before she
resigned as CEO of News International over the hacking scandal
that told her to keep her “head up,” the Telegraph newspaper
said today, citing a biography of the prime minister. Coulson
will testify tomorrow and Brooks will appear on May 11.  Core Paricipants  Cameron and his top ministers last week won permission from
Judge Brian Leveson, who is overseeing the inquiry, to have
“core participant” status in the probe, meaning they will have
advance access to prepared witness statements and documents. The
government sought an emergency hearing to make the request.  U.K. police investigating the murder of teenage schoolgirl
Milly Dowler said two voice mails were missing when they
investigated her mobile phone in 2002 and those messages may
have been deleted. News Corp.’s U.K. unit has apologized for
hacking into Dowler’s phone and closed the News of the World
tabloid that is at the center of the phone-hacking scandal.  One message was initially marked as saved, which could
indicate that her mobile phone voice mail was illegally played,
the police said in a statement read at the inquiry today. Still,
automatic deletions in the voice-mail system, a platform upgrade
at the wireless carrier and a lack of other evidence means “a
definitive conclusion is not and may never be possible,” the
police said.  Murdoch Testimony  Testimony at the inquiry by News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  and his son James last month led to calls for the
resignation of Cameron’s Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt . An aide
to Hunt stepped down after e-mails were released at the inquiry
showing inside information about the politician’s views was
given to News Corp. during its failed bid to buy the rest of
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   Cameron rode on Brooks’s horse on at least one occasion,
shared meals with her and other News Corp. executives, and flew
on a plane belonging to Murdoch’s son-in-law to  Greece  for a
meeting on one of the family’s yachts, according to other
evidence released by Leveson.  The inquiry may have a hard time getting details from
Brooks, said Claire Enders, a media analyst at Enders Analysis,
who advises clients including the U.K. government.  “It’s going to be like drawing blood from a stone,”
Enders said in a phone interview. “She’s very quick with the ‘I
don’t know’ and ‘I don’t recall.’ She’s certainly not going to
volunteer information.”  Cameron Press Chief  Cameron hired Coulson as his press chief when the editor
resigned from the News of the World after its Royal reporter
 Clive Goodman  was jailed in 2007 for intercepting voice mail.
Coulson quit his government job in 2011, a week before the
police started a new phone-hacking probe.  Brooks’s spokesman, Steve Double, declined to comment.
Coulson’s lawyer, Jo Rickards, didn’t immediately return a call
for comment.  About 46 people have been arrested in probes of News Corp.,
including at least a dozen journalists at its daily Sun tabloid
allegedly involved in bribery of police and public officials.
 Hugh Tomlinson , a lawyer for victims, said last month that the
Sunday News of the World probably hacked into the voice mails of
1,174 people, citing information from the  Metropolitan Police
Service .  ‘Tricky Position’  Brooks, who has been arrested twice, is prepared to release
her text messages and e-mails with Cameron to the Leveson
inquiry, the Sunday Times reported April 29.  “Brooks and Coulson are in a tricky position -- it is an
opportunity for them to mount a defense, but it may be better
for them to be economical with their answers given that they are
currently under arrest and face possible criminal prosecution,”
Shan said.  In a separate inquiry, the U.K. Parliament’s Culture Media
and Sport Committee produced a report that accused Rupert and
 James Murdoch  of “willful blindness” to wrongdoing at their
newspapers and said the elder Murdoch was unfit to run an
international company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  