-- NFL Players Live Longer, Suffer Less From Cancer, Heart Disease
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-05-09T04:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/nfl-players-live-longer-suffer-less-from-cancer-heart-disease.html
National Football League players live
longer than men in the general population and are less likely to
suffer from cancer or  heart disease , according to a study by the
 National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health .  NIOSH, a government research agency, studied all 3,439 men
who played at least five seasons in the NFL from 1959 to 1988.  Of those, 334 were deceased, compared with an expectation
of 625, based on estimates from the general population. While
the agency expected 146 cancer-related deaths, 85 players died
from the disease. There were 126 deaths from heart disease
against an expectation of 186, according to an e-mailed summary
of the findings.  While NIOSH didn’t look at neurodegenerative causes of
death, the institute is now studying incidences of Parkinson’s,
Alzheimer’s and  Lou Gehrig ’s disease among NFL players.  The league sent a summary of the findings to 3,200 former
players yesterday. The study was commissioned by the  National
Football League Players Association  in 1990 because of concerns
about shortened life span and heart disease among players.  While players overall are less likely to contract heart
disease, some are more likely to, the study said.  Players who had a body mass index above 30 during their
playing career, making them obese, had twice the risk of dying
from heart disease than other players.  Also, African-American players had a 69 percent higher risk
of death from heart disease than white players and defensive
lineman had a 42 percent higher chance of death from heart
disease compared with the general population.  “All other positions had a lower chance of dying of heart
disease compared to the general population,” the study’s
summary said. “We are not certain why heart disease was higher
among the defensive lineman. This was unexpected and needs
further study.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 