-- Nicholas Katzenbach, Kennedy’s Civil-Rights Envoy, Dies at 90
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-05-09T17:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/nicholas-katzenbach-kennedy-s-civil-rights-envoy-dies-at-90.html
Nicholas Katzenbach, who helped steer
U.S. civil-rights policy under presidents  John F. Kennedy  and
 Lyndon Johnson  and faced off against Governor George Wallace to
force the integration of the  University of Alabama , has died. He
was 90.  Katzenbach died yesterday at his home in Skillman, New
Jersey, the  New York  Times reported, citing his wife, Lydia.  In senior positions at the  Justice Department , including
attorney general, Katzenbach played a central role in some of
the nation’s biggest battles over racial integration. He later
moved to the State Department, where he toiled without success
to help Johnson find a solution to the escalating conflict in
 Vietnam  that didn’t involve a unilateral withdrawal.  “He had one of the most brilliant and creative legal minds
I have encountered, and approached public service with total
seriousness,” Clark Clifford, who served several posts under
Kennedy and Johnson, wrote of Katzenbach in his  memoir . “At the
same time he saw the ironic side of service in  Washington  -- the
endless games some people play, the petty deals that are often
necessary in the pursuit of objectives of great purpose.”  Named an assistant attorney general at the start of
Kennedy’s presidency in 1961, Katzenbach was promoted a year
later to deputy to Attorney General Robert Kennedy, the
president’s brother.  Call for Troops  In September 1962, Robert Kennedy dispatched Katzenbach to
Oxford,  Mississippi , to oversee the federal marshals  protecting
James Meredith , the black student who had won a court order to
be admitted to the segregated  University of Mississippi . As
thousands of protesters gathered and the threat of violence
rose, Katzenbach told Kennedy, from a pay phone, that soldiers
would be needed to keep the peace.  After the arrival of 25,000 Army troops, Meredith managed
to register. Katzenbach called him “a brave man who received
perhaps the most expensive public education in our history.”  Several months later Katzenbach was in Tuscaloosa,  Alabama ,
to confront Wallace over his insistence that the University of
Alabama remain whites-only.  Their standoff, stage-managed for news cameras by Wallace,
produced some of the most famous  images  of the civil-rights era,
as Katzenbach delivered a presidential proclamation in support
of the admission of Vivian Malone and James Hood, then stood in
the  hot sun  as Wallace  denounced  the federal intrusion on state
rights.  Civil Rights Act  Under Kennedy and then under Johnson, Katzenbach drafted
and helped win passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which
outlawed most discrimination based on race or gender, and the
 Voting Rights Act of 1965 . Johnson, who became president after
Kennedy’s assassination in November 1963, named Katzenbach as
attorney general, succeeding  Robert Kennedy , who had left to run
for Senate in 1964.  “The Kennedy-Johnson years will be remembered in history
for what was done with respect to race,” Katzenbach wrote in
“Some of It Was Fun,” his 2008  memoir . “It is difficult today
to visualize the extent of racial divisions in our country and
to recognize how overtly prejudiced most white Americans were
against black citizens.”  In a 2008 interview with Bloomberg Television, Katzenbach
said: “Many of us in the government had been junior officers in
World War II. We wanted peace in the world, we wanted this
country to lead in the right direction, and I guess in an
arrogant way we thought we were the people to do it.”  Former POW  Nicholas deBelleville Katzenbach was born on Jan. 17, 1922,
in Philadelphia and raised in Trenton,  New Jersey . His father,
 Edward , served as New Jersey attorney general; his mother,
 Marie , was the first female president of the New Jersey State
Board of Education.  He served as a navigator in the U.S. Army Air Corps during
World War II and spent 27 months as a prisoner of war after his
B-25 Mitchell bomber was shot down in 1943 over the
 Mediterranean Sea .  He attended  Princeton University , graduating in 1945, and
received his law degree from  Yale Law School  in 1947, serving as
editor-in-chief of the Yale Law Journal. He studied at Oxford
University in the U.K. for two years as a Rhodes Scholar and
worked two years at the Pentagon in the office of the Air Force
general counsel.  He taught law at Yale and the  University of Chicago  before
joining the Kennedy administration in 1961 as head of the
Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel. He got the job
through Byron White, a Yale friend who was deputy attorney
general under Robert Kennedy. When President Kennedy named White
to the  Supreme Court  in 1962, Katzenbach was promoted to the
deputy post.  Showdown With Wallace  His June 11, 1963, showdown with Wallace in front of Foster
Auditorium at the  University of Alabama  became a signal moment
in the push to integrate the U.S. South.  A federal judge had ordered that Malone and Hood be
permitted to enroll, giving Wallace -- who had famously vowed,
“segregation now, segregation tomorrow and segregation
forever” -- the chance to follow through on his promise to
stand at the schoolhouse doors to block integration.  Katzenbach, carrying a proclamation from the president,
confronted Wallace, who refused to yield. Journalist  Marshall
Frady , recalling the moment in his biography of Wallace,
described the two men “exchanging vaguely irritable and
exasperated phrases, like a short, idle, haphazard argument on
some street corner” and “Katzenbach with arms folded tightly
and a faint expression of pained sufferance.”  Wallace Relents  Katzenbach escorted Malone to her dormitory without
incident, then reported by secure telephone to Robert Kennedy.
President Kennedy activated the Alabama National Guard, whose
commanding general, Henry Graham, then directed Wallace to stand
aside. Wallace relented.  After the assassination of President Kennedy in November
1963, Katzenbach helped push for creation of the independent
investigatory panel that became known as the  Warren Commission .
He later acknowledged that a memo he wrote just three days after
the assassination, on the need for a government investigation
that laid conspiracy theories to rest, might have accomplished
the opposite. He said he agreed with the commission’s conclusion
that a solo assassin, Lee Harvey Oswald, killed Kennedy.  Katzenbach’s tenure as attorney general was marked by
conflict with FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover over the bureau’s use
of wiretaps. Katzenbach jumped at the chance, in September 1966,
to move to the State Department as undersecretary, and led trips
to South Vietnam in 1966 and 1967.  Seeking Peace  Johnson “wanted me to make a priority of exploring a
negotiated peace in Vietnam along every avenue possible,”
Katzenbach wrote in his memoir. He said obstacles to that goal
included Johnson’s own reluctance to “cut and run.”  Katzenbach left government in 1969 to become vice president
and general counsel of  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  In
1987 he became a partner at the  law firm  Riker, Danzig, Scherer,
Hyland & Perretti in Morristown, New Jersey.  In 1991 he succeeded Clifford as chairman of First American
Bankshares Inc., after regulators discovered that it was
controlled by the Bank of Credit and Commerce International,
which was seized after auditors found evidence of bribery,
money-laundering and fraud.  He became chairman of WorldCom Inc. in 2004 as the long-
distance telephone company prepared to exit bankruptcy following
an accounting scandal. The company took the name of its long-
distance unit, MCI Inc., and Katzenbach served as chairman
through its 2006 purchase by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)   Besides his wife, the former Lydia King Phelps Stokes, he
is survived by two sons, Christopher and John, a novelist, his
daughters Maria and Anne deBelleville Katzenbach, and six
grandchildren, according to the Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  