-- Nomura Targets 100 Top Executives In Investment Banking
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-05-09T00:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/nomura-targets-100-top-executives-in-investment-banking.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Japan ’s largest
brokerage, plans to almost triple the number of senior
executives in its Americas  investment-banking  division as
competitors retrench.  The unit expects to have about 100 managing and executive
directors within three to five years, up from 38 now, James DeNaut, head of investment banking for the Americas, said in an
interview in New York.  The bank wants to become “one of the top 10 globally and
one of the few that are Asian centric,” said DeNaut, 49. “We
are going to be very focused on the sectors which have good,
high-quality fee pools.”  Nomura, which has expanded from 900 U.S.  employees  in March
2009 to 2,350 this year, is adding senior executives to reach $1
billion in investment-banking revenue from the Americas, which
would help place the firm among the top 10 banks in fees, DeNaut
said.  Bank of America Corp.  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  are among
those cutting jobs as deals and trading stall.  “We’re going to go into a period in the next couple of
years of a very good market for U.S. investment banking,”
DeNaut said. “Some companies which are doing well are starting
to look to do merger work, consolidating sectors and improving
margins. Those companies that are still struggling through
balance-sheet issues are active on financing or restructuring
transactions.”  Europe Retrenchment  The Americas  contributed  43.4 billion yen ($544 million),
or 27 percent, to Nomura’s fiscal fourth-quarter global
wholesale net revenue, which consists of investment banking,
fixed income and equities trading. The quarter was the Americas
wholesale division’s strongest since Nomura began building its
U.S. operation in April 2009, the Tokyo-based firm said.  Nomura’s expansion plans in the Americas, the bank’s only
profitable overseas region, contrast with its retrenchment in
 Europe , where it is losing money after buying bankrupt Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s operations in 2008. Since the end of
September, Nomura has trimmed staff in Europe by 478 employees
to 4,014 as of March 31, company presentation materials showed
April 27.  The Japanese firm has been building its business through
hiring in the Americas, where it missed out on buying Lehman’s
operations to  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   Expansion ‘A Must’  “Expanding the U.S. business is a must for Nomura if it
wants to raise its ranking in the global league tables,” said
 Takehito Yamanaka , a Tokyo-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group
AG. “It’s easier for Nomura to hire talented bankers as its
banking and brokerage rivals are reducing headcounts.”  Other firms are grappling with how to cut costs at their
U.S. investment banks as the European sovereign-debt crisis and
slow economic growth in the U.S. squeeze deal and trading
revenue. Global announced merger and acquisition transactions
fell in the three months ended March 31 for the third
consecutive quarter and were 26 percent lower than a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , is
planning more than 300 job cuts from its corporate- and
investment-banking and trading divisions as underperformers are
trimmed, a person briefed on the matter said this month. Paris-
based  Societe Generale  is cutting 1,580 jobs globally from its
corporate- and investment-banking unit.  Cost Cutting  Nomura Chief Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe, 59,
eliminated 1,300 jobs worldwide in the six months ended March as
part of a $1.2 billion cost-cutting program. The pace of the
headcount reductions probably will ease,  Jonathan Lewis , co-
deputy chief financial officer, said April 27.  Nomura ranks ninth on the global mergers and acquisition
league tables year-to-date. The firm is advising  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  on
its $45.3 billion proposed sale to  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ,
the biggest announced deal so far this year, according to
Bloomberg data. For transactions involving companies in the
U.S., Nomura ranks 21st, the data show.  Investment-banking net revenue at Nomura fell 60 percent to
19.9 billion yen in its fiscal fourth quarter from a year
earlier. Revenue from Nomura’s global fixed-income business
climbed 25 percent to 86.6 billion yen in the three months ended
March from a year earlier, and equities revenue slid 20 percent
to 51.7 billion yen.  ‘Have an Edge’  Nomura  shares  climbed 28 percent since Nov. 24, when they
reached the lowest in at least 37 years, as investors bet the
company can sustain profit that increased in each of the past
two quarters. The stock declined 1.7 percent to 287 yen at 9:32
a.m. in  Tokyo .  Net income rose 86 percent in the three months ended March
from a year earlier to 22.1 billion yen, led by trading revenue
gains that outweighed declines in investment banking.  Ciaran O’Kelly, head of equities in the Americas, said
Nomura can take additional share in the region’s research and
sales and trading. The firm isn’t targeting a specific percent
of the market, he said.  “We want to pick areas in which we know that we have an
edge,” O’Kelly said in an interview. “The metric for us at
Nomura -- it’s around the clients, it’s around profitability,
it’s around relevance, as opposed to pure size.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  