-- Nortel Close to Ending Fight With Asian Units, Lawyer Says
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-05-09T16:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/nortel-close-to-ending-fight-with-asian-units-lawyer-says-1-.html
Nortel Networks Inc. (NRTLQ) , the
telecommunications company being liquidated in bankruptcy, may
soon settle a fight with its Asian and Latin American units over
their share of more than $7 billion Nortel made from asset
sales, an attorney said.  The company may reach a settlement in the next few weeks
with its so-called fourth estate, which includes units in  China ,
Australia and Mexico, Nortel attorney James Bromley, with the
law firm of  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP , said today in
federal court.  “We are very, very close to getting that resolved,”
Bromley told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington,
Delaware.  Nortel’s three main so-called bankruptcy estates are made
up of defunct operating units in the U.S.,  Canada  and  Europe .
Those groups have been battling for more than a year over the
best way to split more than $7 billion collected by selling
businesses and a cache of 6,000 patents.  The groups, including the smaller units that make up a
fourth estate, are participating in mediation sessions being
lead by a Canadian judge in Toronto. The groups are arguing
about how much each should get to pay their creditors, including
pensions and other retirement benefits owed former employees.  “We need to reach an agreement with all the parties to
resolve our allocation, which would allow us to get out of the
mediation,” attorney Thomas M. Vitale, who represents the
fourth estate, said in an interview today.  Smaller Amount  Vitale declined to say whether his group was close to
striking a deal with Nortel’s U.S. unit or how much fourth-
estate creditors may be owed.  Bromley also declined to say how much the fourth estate may
be owed. Both lawyers said the amount is smaller than the claims
made by the Canadian and European groups.  A settlement with the fourth estate wouldn’t end the
disputes among the other groups.  Since filing for bankruptcy in 2009, Nortel, based in
Mississauga, Ontario, has sold all of its major businesses and
is preparing a plan to divide the proceeds among creditors.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  