-- North Korea’s Control of Media Breached by Technology
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-05-10T18:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/north-korea-s-control-of-media-breached-by-technology.html
North Koreans are increasingly able
to access global media and other information, loosening the
communist regime’s grip on their knowledge and potentially
bringing far-reaching changes to the so-called hermit kingdom.  Interviews with refugees, travelers and defectors reveal
that North Koreans are using illegal Chinese mobile phones,
DVDs, computers and small flash drives to get around official
barriers to outside information, according to a report released
today. The interviews, conducted by the Washington-based
consulting group InterMedia, show an “extraordinary”
broadening of the information environment since the 1990s, said
 Marcus Noland , a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics, a Washington-based policy center.  North Korea has long sealed itself off from the world, with
an official state ideology of juche, or self-reliance, and a
narrative that pits a resilient regime against a hostile world.
That portrayal, and the isolation that has allowed it to
flourish, are beginning to crack as new information penetrates
the North, InterMedia said.  “Positive perceptions of the outside world can call into
question many of the North Korean regime’s most central
propaganda narratives, which legitimate the regime by portraying
it as the country’s protector from hostile outside forces,”
according to the report.  U.S. Funding  Titled “A Quiet Opening: North Koreans in a Changing Media
Environment,” the report was funded by the U.S. State
Department.  “The bottom line of this report is that ultimately  North
Korea  is losing control,” said Abraham Kim, vice president of
the Korean Economic Institute, a Washington-based research
group. “Losing control of what its people are listening to and
seeing, and losing control of how people are thinking about
their socioeconomic position, the regime and the outside
world.”  Dan Baer, a deputy assistant secretary at the State
Department, said that his agency wanted to use the report’s
findings to “develop new, creative ways to support” ordinary
North Koreans “and enhance their access to information.” He
said he hoped the findings would also provide non-governmental
groups working on North Korea with new ideas.  Radio’s Reach  Perhaps the most important tool for cracking the regime’s
hermetic shell is radio, with its broadcasts of real-time
outside news, said Martyn Williams, the blogger behind
NorthKoreaTech.org, at a panel discussion of the report. He
recounted meeting a former North Korean soldier whose eventual
decision to defect arose after he stumbled onto a Voice of
America broadcast.  “When he found out that he could fiddle with radios to
pick up broadcasts from other countries, he started listening to
VOA,  Radio Free Asia ,” and South Korean radio, Williams said.
“That helped educate him and ultimately helped motivate him to
escape from his world.”  The report said that the changes taking place in North
Korea so far are “very small” and there is little hope for any
near-term grassroots “pushback” against the regime headed by
Kim Jong Un, grandson of state founder  Kim Il Sung . Still, the
developments “are illustrative of a potential long-term
trajectory for change,” the report found.  Growing media use “is not just an elite story or just a
youth story,” said Noland, who blogs about North Korea.
“Middle-aged people were even more intense consumers,” he said
today at the panel presentation.  Government Gaps  As appetites grow for foreign media, there appear to be
gaps in the government’s ability to block it, said Williams. He
said that from mid- to late February, there were “entire days”
when North Korea stopped jamming signals of incoming radio
broadcasts.  Because the government usually blocks signals of about a
dozen channels for as much as 18 hours a day, analysts suspect
either electricity shortages or technical problems allowed the
signals through, Williams said.  The report’s conclusions come as Kim Jong Un, who succeeded
his late father in December, called for harnessing the Internet
to collect technology from abroad.  “We must use the Internet to find more data on
international trends and advanced science and technology from
other countries,” Kim said, according to a segment on North
Korea state television broadcast May 8.  Unauthorized accessing of foreign media by North Koreans is
illegal, and harsh punishments are meted out for those caught
doing so, the report’s authors said. Even so, InterMedia said,
breaking those laws seems to be more “normalized.”  ‘Nascent Seeds’ of Change  The report also found “the increase in media access has
been accompanied by an increasing willingness among North
Koreans to share information with those they trust.”  Bonds created by shared prohibited behavior are a breeding
ground for ideas that go beyond -- or even run counter to -- the
regime’s version of reality. “In these most nascent seeds of
civil society lies the potential for continued change on the
ground level in the lives of ordinary North Koreans,” the
authors said.  The elites have the greatest exposure to outside media,
with computers, USB drives and illegal Chinese mobile phones
entering the country in substantial numbers, according to the
report. The study identified DVDs as the most commonly accessed
form of outside media. DVDs of South Korean films show the
South’s prosperity and quality of life.  Human Rights Record  The increased media penetration may explain why the
normally secretive leadership chose to invite foreign media to
watch its April 12 missile launch and then, after it
disintegrated over the  Yellow Sea , admitted the failure
publicly.  Those living along the militarized Chinese and South Korean
borders are also able to access foreign television shows. There
is no satellite penetration of North Korea, said Nathaniel
Kretchun, who authored the report with Jane Kim.  North Korea, one of the world’s most militarized countries,
is consistently ranked by groups such as Freedom House,
Reporters Without Borders and  Amnesty International  as having
the worst human rights record and least free media in the world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  