-- Nuclear Revival in U.K. Planned as Cameron Spurs Profits
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-05-09T23:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/nuclear-revival-in-u-k-planned-as-cameron-spurs-profits.html
Prime Minister David Cameron’s
government is drawing up a law to make building atomic reactors
more profitable.  The U.K. is aiming to revive the nuclear industry after
Germany’s largest utilities scrapped a project in March because
the investment would take too long to pay off. Yesterday, the
government announced measures including long-term contracts that
give power producers guarantees to help them attract as much as
60 billion pounds ($97 billion) in finance for nuclear plants.  The proposals follow months of upheaval in the U.K. energy
industry including the withdrawal of  EON AG (EOAN) ,  RWE AG (RWE)  and  SSE Plc (SSE) 
from nuclear projects, the prospect of delays to a plant planned
by Electricite de  France  SA and the resignation of Energy
Secretary  Chris Huhne . The government said the Energy Market
Reform bill will become law next year, allowing utilities to
take advantage of its provisions from 2014.  “Electricity market reform is about keeping the lights
on,” said  John Cridland , director-general of the  Confederation
of British Industry , the U.K.’s largest business lobby.
“Business investment in low carbon will only happen when the
detailed market framework is in place. Today’s announcements are
an important stepping stone.”  The bill calls for so-called feed-in tariffs with contracts
for difference, a mechanism that smooths out rises and drops in
power prices. That plan hasn’t prevented utilities backing out
of nuclear projects. RWE and EON,  Germany ’s two largest
utilities, dropped plans to build a nuclear plant in the U.K. in
March, saying they couldn’t justify the capital expenditure
involved.  Horizon Venture  Their joint Horizon Nuclear Power venture has sites in
 Wales  and the west of  England  and had planned to start
construction of the first reactor by 2015. Their withdrawal came
six months after SSE said it would sell its 25 percent stake in
U.K. nuclear venture NuGeneration Ltd.  About half of Britain’s coal-fired plants are scheduled to
close by 201,6 and all the nation’s nuclear stations are due to
shut by 2035. Britain gets about 20 percent of its power from 10
nuclear stations. All except one reactor are owned by EDF and
 Centrica Plc. (CNA)   The cost of a new generation of reactors may reach 60
billion pounds if all the proposed plants get built, according
to the U.K.’s Nuclear Advanced Manufacturing Research Center.  “We’re not in danger of capacity shortages in the next two
to three years,”  Tim Yeo , a Conservative lawmaker and chairman
of the cross-party Energy and Climate Change Committee, said in
an interview last week. “The problem comes in the 20-teens if
we haven’t started building.”  Furthest Along  Electricite de France SA , the company furthest along in its
plans to build a new nuclear plant, is unlikely to complete a
reactor before 2020, according to U.K. energy markets regulator
Chief Executive Officer Alistair Buchanan, two years later than
originally planned. EDF has said it will make a final  investment
decision  on its project at Hinkley Point in southwest England by
the end of this year.  “As an investor, I’m closer than ever to making a decision
at the end of this year to go ahead,” Chief Executive Officer
Vincent de Rivaz of EDF’s U.K. unit, said at a conference in
London last week.  EDF’s first-of-a-kind EPR reactor at Flamanville, France,
will cost about 6 billion euros ($7.8 billion), almost double
the orginal budget. The tsunami and reactor meltdown at
Fukushima have also weighed on costs, Citigroup analysts
including  Peter Atherton  said in a May 8 note to investors.  “If construction costs are indeed anything like seven
billion pounds per reactor, then an already very challenging
program maybe reaching the point of impossibility in our view,”
the analysts said.  SSE’s former partners Iberdrola and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA are still
part of the NuGeneration venture.  Nuclear Championed  The role of nuclear power was championed by former Energy
Secretary Huhne, who put aside his long-standing opposition to
the energy source when he took office in May 2010. Huhne
resigned in February after he was charged with lying about a
driving offense.  His departure left his successor Ed Davey to oversee the
proposed energy bill. The minister also faces public outcry that
the government’s energy plans are driving up household bills.  U.K. families may pay as much as 65 billion pounds ($100.5
billion) a year for energy by 2020, more than quadruple he
figure in 2000, according to Deutsche Bank AG. They will spend
more than 1,500 pounds a year in 2006 prices by the end of the
decade, Deutsche Bank analyst Martin Brough said in report in
October.  “There needs to be that sense of momentum,” said Bill
Easton, director of U.K. power and utilities at Ernst & Young
LP. “There’s been a lot of concern about the timeline. It’s all
about creating certainty to invest in low carbon generation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  