-- Obama Warms to Energy Industry by Supporting Natural Gas
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-05-09T14:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/obama-warms-to-energy-industry-by-supporting-natural-gas.html
Huddled around the West Wing table
were an unlikely group of co-conspirators with the
administration of U.S. President  Barack Obama .  One participant had been fighting Obama’s proposal to raise
taxes by $24 billion on oil companies; another had complained
that a federal labor board is hampering hiring; a third pushed
Congress to repeal Obama’s provision to clean up pollution from
boilers. On the one issue they were called to discuss on that
April day, however, they could rally around the Democratic
administration: its recent embrace of natural gas.  For a president who has drawn withering criticism from the
energy industry on issues ranging from the Keystone XL pipeline
to environmental restrictions on coal-fired power plants, the
White House meeting -- and a series of decisions that followed -
- illustrate his embrace of one fossil fuel.  While Obama put his initial emphasis as president on
boosting solar panels and wind turbines, natural gas is now
front and center even as skepticism about hydraulic fracturing,
or fracking, is rising among Obama’s environmental allies such
as the Sierra Club.  “They’re more responsive, and they’re listening more
closely to our views,”  Jack Gerard , the president of the
 American Petroleum Institute  in Washington and one of the
participants in that meeting, said in an interview. “The energy
and economic reality is starting to sink in.”  Won Small Battles  At that April 13 meeting with trade groups representing
companies including  DuPont Co. (DD) ,  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  and
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the Obama administration unveiled an
interagency task force to coordinate the development of natural
gas. And since then industry has won a series of small battles:
officials downplayed reports of water pollution from fracking in
Wyoming and Pennsylvania; they turned down a request by
environmentalists to ban diesel in fracking; and they eased off
on two gas-drilling regulations.  In response, Obama has gained two -- not three -- cheers
from industry groups, and an issue that may be politically
potent this year.  “It took a while for the administration to realize the
role it could play,” Michael Walls, vice president of the
American Chemistry Council and another person in the Roosevelt
Room that day, said in an interview. “What we’ve seen is an
evolution in thinking.”  Contributions to Republicans  While Obama is unlikely to gain the full-throated support
of the oil and gas industry -- which gave 88 percent of its $22
million in  contributions  to Republicans in this campaign,
according to the  Center for Responsive Politics  -- gas
production is taking off in key electoral battleground states
such as Pennsylvania, Ohio and Colorado. And the surge in
 natural gas  production and fall in prices offers Obama a ready
rebuttal to Republicans on energy issues.  “This is a counter-argument to those attacking him on
gasoline prices,”  Bruce Oppenheimer , a professor at  Vanderbilt
University  who studies the politics of energy, said in an
interview. “It becomes a real talking point for him when he
gets attacked on energy.”  Of a list of nine energy options polled by the  University
of Texas  in March, expanding production of natural gas was seen
as the most likely to generate support for a candidate, topping
expanding drilling off the Gulf Coast, eliminating the
Environmental Protection Agency or backing renewable energy.  The growth in natural gas production from shale has pushed
down prices by 50 percent in less than a year and led to a spurt
in employment and production of steel, chemicals and fertilizer.  Fracking-Linked Pollution  At the same time, many local residents and activists
complain that the process of hydraulic fracturing to free that
gas has led to contamination of drinking wells, toxic wastewater
seeping into streams and hazardous smog in the air.  The administration is tacking in response to the surprising
boom in natural gas, which pollutes less than coal when burned
in a power plant, while also trying to mitigate risks, officials
say. Obama himself claimed in his  State of the Union  address
this year that the U.S. has a century’s worth of natural gas
reserves, and developing that gas could boost employment by
600,000 jobs by the end of the decade.  “We recognize that there is this important potential here,
and we want to make sure we get it right,”  Heather Zichal , the
top White House aide on energy, said in an interview. Given the
boom in production, “our thinking has truly evolved, both on
the production and utilization side.”  Industry Lobbyists  After Obama embraced natural gas as part of an “all-of-
the-above” approach this year, Zichal held a series of
conversations with Gerard, whose group represents companies such
as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  of Irving, Texas, and ConocoPhillips of
Houston, and  Dave McCurdy , the president of the  American Gas
Association , a Washington group representing companies that
distribute natural gas including  Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED)  of  New
York  and Southern California Gas Co. of San Deigo.  Gerard, who had visited the White House only a few times
since Obama took office and donated $2,500 to the presidential
campaign of Republican  Mitt Romney , was an unlikely partner.  McCurdy wasn’t.  A former Oklahoma Democratic congressman, McCurdy, as the
head of the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers when Obama took
office in 2009, had used his low-key charm to coax the
administration into negotiating new fuel-efficiency standards
with automakers.  Just as with the automakers, McCurdy said the White House
recognizes “that with the natural gas community, they don’t
have to be in natural conflict,” he said in an interview.  Separate Agendas  Both Gerard and McCurdy had been emphasizing one point:
While Obama had called for more gas production, as many as a
dozen federal agencies were considering various rules or
policies that could deal drilling a setback.  “You had a president setting a broad policy position, and
then you had agencies off implementing their own agendas,”
McCurdy said.  After weeks of these discussions, the White House called
Gerard, McCurdy, and officials from America’s Natural Gas
Alliance, the National Association of Manufacturers, the
American Chemistry Council and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce into
the White House meeting, held just steps from the Oval Office.  Not in attendance: environmental or health groups.  From the administration were Zichal and Cass Sunstein, the
administration’s top regulator. Together they told the group
that Obama would start an interagency group, made up of 13
federal departments or offices, to tackle just the points
industry had raised: the conflicting agendas within the
administration seeking to regulate fracking, in which water,
sand and chemicals are shot into the ground to break apart
underground rock and free gas trapped there.  Praise for Obama  The lobbyists then laid out their issues: one pushed for
EPA to delay and scale back new rules on air pollution from gas
drilling; another wanted help in permitting new pipelines; a
third asked the White House to get EPA to reevaluate how it
measures methane, a greenhouse gas that escapes when a well is
first fracked.  And in the end, both sides collected victories.  Instead of criticisms, the groups praised Obama for
launching the effort. The White House dutifully collected the
statements and e-mailed them around to reporters.  Over the weeks that followed, the EPA delayed requirements
that drillers capture the gas emitted when a well is first
tapped until 2015, a key demand of Gerard’s group. The Bureau of
Land Management eased off on requirements for disclosure of
chemicals used in fracking. And the EPA disregarded a plea from
environmentalists to outlaw the use of diesel in fracking.  Politically Powerful  Just yesterday, the Interior Department approved  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC) ’s $10 billion natural-gas project to drill 3,675
wells in Utah’s Greater Natural Buttes area in Uintah County.  “The oil and gas industry is a very powerful and
politically influential industry,” Amy Mall, a senior policy
analyst at the  Natural Resources Defense Council  in Washington,
said. “They’re making it hard to make a case that companies can
and should clean up their act.”  Industry groups aren’t entirely satisfied either. Even with
the changes to each of the EPA and BLM rules, Gerard says the
administration is imposing needless costs, and should leave
regulation to the states.  They are also still fighting on other issues. Gerard,
called Obama’s attacks on  oil companies ’ tax bills
“misleading” and “offensive.” And he has a clear-eyed sense
of why he has a new ally in the White House now.  “You are seeing the president begin to pivot, because he
is on the wrong side of the American people,” Gerard said.
“And it’s election time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  