-- Obama Says Same-Sex Marriage Should Be Legal
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-05-09T21:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/obama-says-same-sex-marriage-should-be-legal.html
President  Barack Obama  declared his
support for same-sex marriage, ending questions about where he
stood on an issue that remains divisive in the U.S. and moving
it to the forefront of the presidential election campaign.  Obama’s remarks, the first time he’s voiced direct support
for making gay marriage legal, came in an interview with ABC
News scheduled after his vice president and a Cabinet member
said they support letting same-sex couples marry. He called it a
personal position and said that states should decide how their
own laws will treat the issue.  The president said he was moved by seeing same-sex couples
in long-term relationships and gays serving in the military who
aren’t able to commit themselves in marriage.  “I’ve just concluded that for me personally it is
important for me to go ahead and affirm that I think same sex
couples should be able to get married,” Obama told ABC in an
excerpt of the interview broadcast by the network.  His statement comes amid a confluence of state-level
measures on same-sex marriage and fundraising events with gay
activists for his re-election campaign. It also sets a contrast
with Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , who
reaffirmed his opposition to same-sex marriage during a campaign
stop this afternoon in  Oklahoma City .  Marriage Definition  “I believe marriage is a relationship between a man and a
woman,” the former Massachusetts governor said in response to a
question. “This is a very tender and sensitive topic, as are
many topics, but I have the same view that I’ve had since
running for office.”  The president has been under pressure from gay-rights
groups to forcefully endorse gay marriage after Vice President
 Joe Biden  and Education Secretary Arne Duncan said in the past
week that they supported it.  “That was about as clear a statement as we could have
asked for, I’m rather astounded,” said John Aravosis, a 2008
Obama supporter and gay rights activists.  When he ran for president in 2008, Obama opposed same-sex
marriage. His position since late 2010 has been that his views
were “evolving.” In office he’s promoted policies that advance
the rights of gays, including repealing the military’s ban on
openly gay service members and giving same-sex partners more
equal treatment in areas such as medical decisions.  Obama Critics  Obama’s critics said they welcomed his declaration.  Ralph Reed, an opponent of gay marriage and founder of the
Duluth, Georgia-based Faith and Freedom Coalition said Obama’s
statement today is “a gift” to Romney’s campaign.  Reed said it will “energize the opposition” in
battleground states such as Virginia, Florida and  Ohio , where
conservative voters have helped pass amendments defining
marriage as between a man and a woman.  “This is not going to be helpful to the president or his
re-election campaign,” Reed said in an interview.  Stu Rothenberg, editor of the nonpartisan Rothenberg
Political Report in  Washington , said the debate will fade and
the economy will return as the dominant issue in the November
election.  “Culturally conservative older people won’t agree with the
president, most of those people wouldn’t vote for him in
November anyway,” Rothenberg said. Younger people who feel
passionately about the gay rights would likely have voted for
Obama even if he hadn’t come out in support of same-sex
marriage, he said.  Electoral Battlegrounds  While opinion polls show Americans increasingly approve of
same-sex marriage, it remains unpopular in several battleground
states as Obama prepares to face voters in November. North
Carolinians yesterday voted to amend the state constitution to
ban gay marriage, and Republicans in the Colorado House killed a
measure to allow civil unions.  Both are states Obama won in 2008 and they will be in play
in his 2012 campaign against Romney, who supports amending the
Constitution to ban gay marriage. The issue also is divisive in
the black and Hispanic communities, two key constituencies for
Obama.  Obama previously cited his Christian faith for his
opposition to same-sex marriage. He invoked that faith again
today in explaining his change, saying he recognized that his
position may “put us at odds with the views of others.”  “The thing at root that we think about is, not only Christ
sacrificing himself on our behalf, but it’s also the Golden
Rule, you know, treat others the way you would want to be
treated,” he said.  Decision Process  Obama came to his decision over the last several months and
began discussing how to make it public with a circle of about a
half dozen of his closest advisers, according to administration
officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity to talk about the
internal deliberations.  The president intended to speak publicly about his change
before the Democratic nominating convention in September. The
debate in the White House was about timing, the officials said.  Biden’s remarks in a May 6 broadcast of NBC’s “Meet the
Press” that he is “absolutely comfortable” with same-sex
marriage forced the timetable, the officials said. Obama’s
interview with ABC was arranged yesterday.  The officials said Obama’s political team concluded gay
marriage as an issue wouldn’t be a major driver of votes in
November. Obama isn’t planning to propose any federal action and
wants to leave the issue to states to decide, they said.  Legal Status  Same-sex marriage currently is legal in six states and
Washington D.C. Maryland and Washington state have passed laws
allowing gay marriage that haven’t yet taken effect. Thirty-
eight states have laws or constitutional provisions limiting
marriage to relationships between a man and a woman, according
to the  National Conference of State Legislatures .  Among the states where it is legal is New York, and Obama
was encouraged by the way the debate played out there last year,
the administration officials said.  The issue is working its way toward the  Supreme Court  and
may come before the justices in the nine-month term that starts
in October. In February a federal appeals court struck down
 California ’s Proposition 8, which bans gay marriage, as
unconstitutional.  In a separate line of cases, gay-rights advocates are
challenging the Defense of Marriage Act, which prohibits the
federal government from recognizing same-sex spouses. The Obama
administration said last year it will no longer defend that
statute in court.  Public support is moving toward support for recognition of
same-sex unions. In a March 7-10 ABC/Washington Post poll, 52
percent said it should be legal for gays to marry, with 43
percent saying it should be illegal. In a February 2010 poll, 47
percent said same-sex marriage should be legal.  Against that backdrop, Obama plans at least two fundraisers
with gay rights activists, the first on May 14 in  New York 
featuring pop singer Ricky Martin. The second is scheduled for
June 6 in  Los Angeles .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  