-- Oil-Sands Emissions Low Enough for Europe, Alberta Says
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-05-09T19:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/oil-sands-emissions-low-enough-for-europe-alberta-says.html
Carbon-dioxide emissions from  Canada ’s
 oil sands  are low enough to allow the crude to be sold in
Europe, the government of  Alberta  said, challenging a European
Union study on the issue.  Emissions from oil-sands output are as much as 12 percent
higher than conventional methods of production and refining used
in Europe, according to a report paid for by the government of
Alberta, where most of Canada’s oil-sands deposits are located.
The European Union has put the figure at 22 percent.  “The numbers being used by the European Union are
flawed,” Bob McManus, a spokesman for the Alberta Department of
Energy, said in a telephone interview today.  Both studies use so-called “well-to-wheels” emissions,
meaning it considers the impact of extracting, refining and
transporting the crude as well as the ultimate combustion of
fuel in vehicles. The Alberta study was done by Jacobs
Consultancy, a unit of Pasadena, California-based Jacobs
Engineering Group, Inc.  The Jacobs study is misleading because it compares low-
intensity methods of oil-sands extraction, which aren’t widely
used, to the highest-intensity methods in  Europe , said Simon
Dyer, policy director at the Pembina Institute, an environmental
advocacy group in Calgary. The European approach of averaging
emissions based on methods of production is more accurate, he
said.  “This report doesn’t really reflect the reality that the
oil sands are a high-carbon source and should be reflected as
different in the EU process,” Dyer said.  European Study  The European study, which was performed by Stanford
University’s Department of Energy Resources Engineering in 2011,
found that emissions from oil-sands production are more than
four times higher than conventional crude in Europe. That
compares only production and excludes refining and emissions
from cars.  The European Union has postponed until 2013 a decision on
whether to label oil sands as dirtier than other sources of
crude imported to Europe.  The EU has proposed giving oil sands crude a greenhouse-gas
value of 107 grams per megajoule of fuel, 22 percent higher than
the 87.5-gram label proposed for the average emissions of
conventional crude in Europe.  That rating would effectively ban the use of oil-sands
crude in Europe, according to the environmental group Friends of
the Earth. The EU aims to cut  greenhouse gases , which are blamed
for global warming, by a fifth in 2020 compared with 1990.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  