-- Mol Falls to Lowest in Four Months on Tax, Greek Debt Crisis
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-05-09T15:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/mol-heads-for-biggest-drop-in-6-months-on-energy-company-tax-1-.html
Mol Nyrt. (MOL) , Hungary’s largest refiner,
dropped to a four-month low after the government said energy
companies will have a 30 percent total tax rate and concern
increased that Europe’s debt crisis will deepen.  The shares dropped 2.1 percent to 16,500 forint by the end
of trading in Budapest, the lowest close since Jan. 6 and
extending its losses in the last six days to 7.8 percent. Mol
will face an 11 percent special levy dubbed a “Robin Hood” tax
in addition to a 19 percent corporate tax rate from next year,
Adam Balogh, an assistant state secretary at the Economy
Ministry, told reporters today.  Energy stocks fell across Europe as  Greece  struggled to
form a government willing to deliver the terms of its bailout.
Mol dropped as much as 5.4 percent earlier today after Economy
Minister Gyorgy Matolcsy said energy companies will face a 30
percent tax rate, without clarifying that the figure already
included the Robin Hood levy. The government is introducing new
taxes from this year while phasing out separate “crisis”
duties on industries including energy and banks.  “Whereas the previous sector taxes and banking tax was
explicitly temporary, the new taxes are planned to stay,”
 Zoltan Torok , a Budapest-based analyst at  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) , wrote by e-mail today.  The benchmark BUX stock  index , in which Mol has the biggest
weighting at more than 31 percent, declined 1.7 percent. Magyar
Telekom Nyrt., the Hungarian unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , fell
3.3 percent to 466 forint after the government approved a tax on
telephone calls.  The ministry’s clarification of Matolcsy’s energy tax
comments improved the expected impact for Mol, said Peter Csaszar, a Warsaw-based analyst at  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ’s broker unit.  “The whole sector is down massively, the Greek story is
also having an effect here,” Csaszar said by telephone today
regarding Mol’s shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  