-- Holcim Plans Further Cost Cuts as Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-05-09T09:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/holcim-plans-further-costs-purge-as-profit-misses-estimates.html
Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-
largest cement maker, said it will deepen cost cuts to help
drive profitability after a standstill in European construction
in February hit first-quarter earnings.  Chief Executive Officer Bernard Fontana, who took over in
February, declined to say how much profitability would benefit
from the reductions, which he plans to unveil next week. Holcim,
based in Jona, Switzerland, said operating earnings before
interest and taxes, depreciation and amortization declined 1.1
percent to 745 million Swiss francs ($804 million).  “We must clearly reduce our costs,” Fontana said on a
call with journalists today.  Holcim is seeking to beat sluggish demand in  Europe  and
improve profitability this year by cutting fuel costs and
matching inflation with price increases. Under Fontana, who
joined from Aperam, a spinoff from steelmaker  ArcelorMittal (MT) ,
Holcim will remain cautious about new investments, it said.  Holcim declined as much as 1.05 francs, or 1.9 percent, to
54.05 francs, and traded at 54.05 euros as of 11:42 a.m. The
stock has gained 7.7 percent so far this year.  Cost Cuts  “A minimum of 400 million francs in cost savings is needed
to move the needle,” Ian Osburn, an analyst at ING Wholesale
Banking in Amsterdam, said by telephone. “Any less will be just
a confirmation of Holcim’s good management but its shares
already trade at a premium for that.”  Fontana reiterated Holcim’s target of reaching a return on
invested capital after tax above 8 percent.  “In past years we have not reach that target,” Fontana
said. “We want to be above this level as soon as possible.”  Holcim’s cost cuts come as Bruno Lafont, the CEO of larger
competitor  Lafarge SA (LG) , seeks to dispose of 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) of assets amid lower demand in Europe and higher energy
costs.  Sales at Holcim advanced 7.1 percent to 4.76 billion
francs, bolstered by a recovery in  North America  and surging
demand for construction materials in  emerging markets  from
Azerbaijan to the Philippines. Analysts estimated 4.7 billion
francs.  Holcim reported 10 million francs in net income, becoming
the only top-four cement maker to shrug off the combined effects
of higher charges for transportation, energy and raw materials.
Lafarge,  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  and  Cemex SAB de CV  all reported
net losses in the period.  Cemex and Lafarge beat analyst targets for Ebitda while
Germany’s HeidelbergCement failed to meet the mark on higher
energy costs and colder-than-normal temperatures in  Germany .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  