-- Old as New: Fixing E-Waste Instead of Scrapping It
-- B y   S i o b h a n   C r i s e
-- 2012-05-09T00:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/old-as-new-fixing-e-waste-instead-of-scrapping-it.html
     May 8 (Bloomberg BusinessWeek) -- E-waste recyclers have
eked out profits for decades by collecting discarded electronics,
dismantling them, and then selling the components and raw
materials. Electronic waste is the fastest-growing waste stream
in the world, according to the  United Nations . In the European
Union alone, 10 million tonnes (about 11 million U.S. tons) are
tossed each year.  One big challenge for e-waste recyclers is competition:
About 150 registered operators in the U.K. are permitted to treat
e-waste. One of them, EnvironCom, hopes that fixing some of the
60,000 tonnes of junk it handles per year might give it an
advantage. So in addition to recycling, it’s also repairing
broken washers, TVs, and refrigerators, and then reselling them.
Reuse “makes very good business sense and it’s great for the
environment,” explains Chief Executive Officer Sean Feeney (in
the photo above).  The 200-person company, headquartered in Grantham, 100 miles
north of London, began its refurbishing operations in earnest two
years ago, sparked by Feeney’s experience working as the
supply-chain director at DSG International, now Dixons Retail,
the largest seller of consumer electronics in the U.K. Unlike
small refurbishers that typically buy used products directly from
individuals and small businesses, EnvironCom gets its refuse in
bulk from large companies and recycling centers.  Today, EnvironCom fixes about 15 percent of the products it
handles, and aims to resell 30 percent of large appliances by the
end of 2014, says Feeney. In October 2011 it opened a new
50,000-square-foot facility in  London  to expand its repairing
capability. Feeney plans to open a new plant in Dublin this
summer and is considering setting up additional locations in
 Europe  and the U.S. over the next 18 months.  In January the European Parliament endorsed raising the
target of e-waste to be collected and recycled or reused to 85
percent by 2020, from 20 percent now. The U.K. government in
March estimated almost a quarter of all the electronic items
discarded at municipal recycling centers could be repaired, with
an annual resale value of £200 million ($323 million). “Reuse is
certainly a growth area” for recyclers, though it is currently
small, says Phil Conran, a director at consulting firm 360
Environmental near Leicester in central  England .  EnvironCom’s motivation is as much about profits as it is
about environmentalism. The nine-year-old business struggled
after its main processing plant was destroyed by a fire in 2007.
Feeney says after the fire it lost money every year until 2011,
when it turned a profit on revenue of £13.5 million. He credits
the reuse business with the turnaround and says the company
expects £22 million in revenue in 2012. Feeney says EnvironCom
can make more profit fixing and reselling refrigerators than
breaking them down into parts, even though it takes an engineer
about an hour to fix up one refrigerator, while the company’s
plant in Grantham can take apart 100 of them in the same time.  EnvironCom, which has received equity investments totaling
£12 million from Aloe Private Equity, sells the majority of its
refurbished electrical products outside the U.K. It sends about
80,000 used refrigerators and freezers to  Africa  annually, with
the majority sold in  Ghana , according to Feeney, and it sells
about 50,000 refurbished items annually to central European
countries such as Latvia and  Poland . The fanciest goods, such as
Dyson cleaners and flat-screen TVs, go to U.K. nonprofits,
including the British Heart Foundation.  EnvironCom “is a good source of refurbished stock” that
complements the donated items, says Mike Lucas, head of retail at
the BHF, which has 144 stores selling preowned consumer
electronics. EnvironCom was the first recycling company to supply
it two years ago, because “it had the scale to do so,” says
Lucas.  Competitors are paying attention to EnvironCom’s reuse push.
Appliance Care Recycling, which launched in Thorrington in
southeast England in February 2011, refurbishes and sells nearly
half of the 180 to 200 tonnes of washers, refrigerators, and
other goods it processes per month, says Alex James, a director
at the company. SIMS Recycling Solutions, one of the largest
e-waste recyclers in the world, also repairs and resells consumer
goods. “We now see the very large multinational recyclers as our
competition, frankly, because they see us as their competition,”
says Feeney.  Peter Calliafas, former chairman of the Waste Electrical and
Electronic Equipment Advisory Body in London, notes the economic
situation in the U.K. and other European countries is improving
the market for refurbished gadgets and appliances. It’s “making
people think twice about merely throwing away items and buying
new,” he says. “The reuse agenda is gaining more traction.”