-- Home Prices Rise in Half of U.S. Cities as Markets Stabilize
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-05-09T16:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/home-prices-rise-in-half-of-u-s-cities-as-markets-stabilize.html
Prices for single-family homes climbed
in half of U.S. cities in the first quarter as real estate
markets stabilized.  The median sales  price  increased from a year earlier in 74
of 146 metropolitan areas measured, the National Association of
Realtors said in a report today. In the fourth quarter, only 29
areas had gains.  The U.S. housing market is showing signs of bottoming as
improving  employment  and record-low mortgage  rates  boost demand
while inventories of available properties tighten. At the end of
March, 2.37 million previously owned homes were available for
sale, 22 percent fewer than a year earlier, the Realtors said.  “The housing market is still depressed but it had a good
quarter,”  Patrick Newport , an economist at IHS Global Insight
in Lexington,  Massachusetts , said in a telephone interview
today. “We’re on the mend but it’s still something that will
take two or three years before we’re back to normal.”  The national median existing single-family home price was
$158,100 in the first quarter, down 0.4 percent from the first
three months of 2011, according to the Realtors group.  The best-performing metro area was Cape Coral, Florida,
where prices increased 28.1 percent from a year earlier. Prices
rose 19 percent in  Grand Rapids ,  Michigan ; 16.9 percent in Palm
Bay, Florida; and 16.6 percent in Erie,  Pennsylvania .  Biggest Declines  Kingston, New York, had the biggest decline, with the
median selling price tumbling 22 percent in the quarter. It was
followed by  Stamford , Connecticut, with an 18 percent decline;
Mobile, Alabama, at 14.7 percent; and Atlanta at 12 percent.  The median selling price is influenced by the mix of homes
on the market and probably was boosted by a smaller share of
transactions involving distressed properties. Those homes, which
sell at discounts, accounted for 32 percent of first-quarter
sales, down from 38 percent a year earlier.  Prices are more volatile than normal because they are
affected by the prevalence of distressed sales and “sudden
upswings” in buyer interest in some areas, said  Lawrence Yun ,
the group’s chief economist.  ‘Broad Shortages’  “We have broad shortages of lower-priced homes in much of
the country, with very tight supply in Western states for homes
through the middle price ranges,” Yun said in the report.
“This is good news for many sellers who wish to list now, or
for those waiting for prices to improve.”  Sales of previously owned homes rose 5.3 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, according to the report.
Purchases climbed 11.7 percent in the Midwest, 6.6 percent in
the Northeast, 4.1 percent in the South, and 1.4 percent in the
West.  Fannie Mae , the nation’s biggest mortgage-finance company,
today reported a $2.7 billion first-quarter profit after a $6.5
billion loss a year earlier, citing smaller declines in  home
prices  as one of the reasons for improvement. The Washington-
based company said that it won’t need Treasury Department aid to
balance its books for the first time since it was seized by
federal regulators in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  