-- Honda Wins Reversal of Small-Claims Loss Over Hybrid Mileage
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   M a u r i c e   P o s s l e y
-- 2012-05-09T18:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/honda-wins-reversal-of-small-claims-loss-over-hybrid-mileage-1-.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267)  won the reversal of a
$9,867 small-claims-court loss to a Californian who dropped out
of a class-action lawsuit and pursued her own claim that the
company overstated the fuel mileage of its Civic Hybrid.  California state Judge Dudley W. Gray II in Torrance, in
Los Angeles County, said in a ruling today that Tokyo-based
Honda’s fuel-economy ratings were in compliance with U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency requirements and that the
ratings are for comparison among vehicles without taking into
account factors that can affect mileage at a given moment.  “Defendant’s use of advertising slogans such as ‘sipping
fuel,’ ‘amazingly little fuel’ and ‘saves plenty of money on
fuel’ -- the court rules that these are non-actionable sales
puffery,” the judge said. “They are not specific promises of
anything.”  Heather Peters had rejected the class-action settlement,
which paid car owners $100 or $200 depending on the model and as
much as $1,500 credit toward a new vehicle. Peters and
plaintiffs in the larger suit challenged the company’s claim
that the car gets 50 miles a gallon of fuel.  ‘Still Glad’  “Of course I’m disappointed, but I’m still glad that I
raised awareness that Honda is no longer the great brand that it
used to be,” Peters said in an e-mail. “They used to go the
extra mile in  customer service , now the go the extra mile
fighting customers in court.”  A small-claims judge in February agreed with Peters that
Honda’s advertising misrepresented the mileage of her 2006 Civic
Hybrid and awarded her damages. He rejected Honda’s claims that
it’s stuck with the estimate provided by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency.  About 1,700 Honda owners have opted out of the class-action
settlement, according to Peters’s website about the case.  “Honda is pleased with the court’s decision, which affirms
that Honda was truthful in its advertising of the fuel economy
potential of the 2006 Honda Civic Hybrid,”   Chris Martin , a
spokesman for American Honda Motor Co., said in an e-mailed
statement. “We are thankful for the support we received from
the many satisfied Civic Hybrid owners who expressed their
support throughout the legal process.”  Seventeen similar small-claims cases by Civic Hybrid owners
have been heard since January, and Honda has prevailed in 16 of
them, Martin said in the statement.  An appeal in a California small-claims court is conducted
as a full trial, as if the earlier one hadn’t taken place.
Decisions in most appeals in U.S. courts are based on whether
the trial judge committed one or more legal errors.  The case is Peters v. America Honda Motor Co., SBA
11S02156, California Superior Court,  Los Angeles  County,
Southwest District, Small Claims Division (Torrance).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Maurice Possley at  mauricepossley@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 