-- London Oil Trades Beat New York for First Time
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2012-05-09T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/london-oil-trades-beat-new-york-for-first-time-chart-of-the-day.html
London’s oil futures market was
busier than its  New York  counterpart for the first time in at
least 17 years last month, reinforcing Brent crude’s ascendant
role in setting global prices.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows investors traded 11.3 million
Brent futures on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in April,
compared with 10.6 million West Texas Intermediate contracts,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was the first
month the London future had higher volumes than New York’s since
1995, the earliest period for which Bloomberg has figures.  “WTI is suffering because of bottlenecks in the mid-
continent that’s causing localized weakness because you can’t
move the oil to the Gulf of Mexico,” said  Anthony Nunan ,
assistant general manager for risk management at  Mitsubishi
Corp. (8058)  in Tokyo. “Bigger funds don’t want to deal with that, so
Brent will be seen as a better overall proxy of the global
marketplace.”  The delivery point for WTI purchased through the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  is Cushing, Oklahoma, which has insufficient
pipelines connecting it with refineries in Texas and Louisiana.
That’s led to a glut of crude, prompting banks from Credit
Suisse Group AG to  Barclays Capital  to question the viability of
the U.S. contract as a benchmark price.  WTI has traded at a discount to Brent since Aug. 17, 2010,
amid the surge in supply in Cushing as Canadian crude flowed
into the U.S. Midwest. There are several pipelines in the works
to lessen the bottlenecks, with the Seaway project developed by
 Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  and Enterprise Product Partners LP scheduled to
start carrying about 150,000 barrels a day of crude to the Gulf
Coast by the end of this month.  WTI’s “relevance” to global oil markets is “waning” as
gauges including the Dow Jones-UBS Commodity Index have or will
increase weightings of Brent contracts, Barclays Capital said in
October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lee Miller at 
 lmiller@bloomberg.net  