-- London’s Shareholder Revolt Is a Win for the 1 Percent
-- B y   A . A .   G i l l
-- 2012-05-09T23:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/london-s-shareholder-revolt-is-a-win-for-the-1-percent.html
Depending on who signs your paycheck
and what blogs you read,  London  has become embroiled in either
“Bonusgate” or a “Shareholder Spring.”  Denizens of the  City of London  are masticating or
ruminating (contingent on whether they’re bears or bulls) on the
news that Andrew Moss, chief executive officer of the insurer
 Aviva Plc (AV/) , has stepped down after more than 50 percent of
shareholders voted against his proposed pay raise. He did agree
to forgo it, but that wasn’t enough. Since Moss had been in the
big chair, Aviva’s share price halved and its  dividends
evaporated . So he picked up his severance package with both
hands and took the elevator. As one incandescent shareholder
said, only two things were going up: executive pay and
nonexecutive pay.  William Hill Plc (WMH) , the London bookmaker, won’t be taking
bets on whether its chief executive officer, Ralph Topping, will
hold onto his paycheck after a similar shareholder revolt. Sly
Bailey, one of the most ferociously prominent female executives
in the City, was tipped out of her corner office at  Trinity
Mirror Plc (TNI) , the newspaper publishers, after investors objected
to her pay.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  is trying to put an insouciant face on
its shareholders revolting against the $28.7 million pay package
awarded to its chief executive,  Bob Diamond . The shareholders’
votes are not binding, but it is the sort of notice banks are
happier handing out than receiving. There is something in the
air.  Carrot of Capitalism  You may well think all this strikes at the very carrot of
capitalism, that businesses have an obligation to hire the best
and that the best have a right to charge whatever the market
will pay. But politicians all over  Europe  and the U.S. have been
calling for restraint, or at least delicacy in pay. An eight-
digit bonus for the head of a business that is foreclosing on
mortgages and calling in loans goes way beyond tasteless.
Politicians reassure us that we are “all in this together,”
but every grinningly unapologetic bonus and golden handshake
shows that some of us are in it, but standing on the heads of
others, who are as a consequence much deeper in it.  Europe’s most stable and generally happy societies are the
bungalow economies of  Scandinavia , where the distance between
the gutter and the ceiling is the shortest.  Francois Hollande ,
just stepping into the unrestrained grandeur of the Elysee
Palace, has called for executive pay to be capped at 20 times
those at the bottom of the ladder. It’s not going to happen, but
in most European cafes and pubs that sounds like a very modest
proposal.  The  Occupy Wall Street  movement sprung directly from this
perceived inequality. It sprung, but it wasn’t Spring. In
retrospect, despite the miles of liberal-egalitarian wishful
commentary, it achieved very little. It wasn’t the rebirth of
1968, it wasn’t the vanguard of a new, youthful awareness and
commitment to equality and fraternity (though, in  Germany , an
Occupy group applied for official permission before pitching its
camp, and was given it). What it did give us was the slogan “We
are the 99 percent,” which neatly identified and focused the
anger of people suffering recession onto the 1 percent.  But to be in the 1 percent you only have to earn $380,000
in the U.S. I say “only” because the folks who are facing the
U.K.’s Shareholder Spring are the top 0.01 percent and 0.001
percent who have seen their incomes steeple. The people who are
taking them down are not the 99 percent but the 10 percent, or
even other 1 percenters. Those who own stock and bother to turn
up to shareholders meetings are the real forces of change.  Worth Every Cent  It’s not just individual shareholders -- it’s also the
institutional investors who are beginning to feel uncomfortable
with the unapologetic and willfully unconcerned boardroom
venality. Ironically, one of the biggest investor-critics of
Bailey at Trinity Mirror was Aviva.  Those readers -- and I expect there will be many -- who
believe that corporate and banking remuneration just reflects
the market, and that the pool of possible chief executive
officers is shallow and rare, and that if you get a good one he
or she is worth every cent (not least to the workers and the
shareholders), and that to call for restrictions is just
jealousy, bitterness and a misplaced general anger that should
be aimed at politicians, also probably believe that the market
shouldn’t be fettered or regulate its success.  Well, that would be all well and good, except that markets
do fetter and regulate all sorts of things. Not least for the
protection of businesses and consumers: monopolies, copyright,
false representation,  insider trading , to mention a few.
Executive pay is increasingly seen to be set by those who
themselves hope to gain from its largesse. Although it may be
pegged to results, there is rarely a commensurate downside for
negative outcomes. Improved figures too often look like a chief
executive appropriating the wages of dismissed employees.  The voters in this Shareholder Spring are those who might
in the future have had an interest in artificially fattened
executive pay, but see it now as not just a serious drain on
resources but as intrinsically bad for business, bad for the
market. We may not all be in this together, but most of us are
in the High Street, and avarice is not a good look.  And one can sense something else, something more nebulous:
a growing realization that perhaps the market mythology and the
headhunters’ black magic are mere guff and PR. There will always
be executives whose decision making doesn’t live up to their
tailoring, and there do seem to be an awful lot of them around
right now. A glut, in fact.  (A.A. Gill, the restaurant and TV critic of the Sunday
Times of London, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  India’s economic
crossroads  and  monitoring mad-cow disease ; A.A. Gill on  London’s
shareholder revolt ;  Ezra Klein  on  Richard Lugar’s concession
speech ;  Noah Feldman  on  Israel’s new coalition ;  Caroline Baum  on
the  nature of U.S. unemployment ; Reid Hastie on the  failure of
narrative thinking ; Sam Sherraden on  China’s liberalization .  To contact the writer of this column:
A.A. Gill in London at  aagill1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 