-- One-Disease Approach in U.K. Needs Change, Study Finds
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-05-09T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/one-disease-approach-in-u-k-needs-change-study-finds.html
The U.K.’s health-care system,
designed to focus on one disease at a time, needs to adapt to
better care for patients with two or more health conditions,
especially as the population ages, Scottish researchers said.  Twenty-three percent of patients had at least two ailments,
and 8.3 percent had both physical and mental health illnesses,
according to an analysis of 1.75 million patients registered
with 314 medical practices in  Scotland . The study, led by
researchers at Dundee University and Glasgow University, was
published today in  The Lancet  medical journal.  “The focus on single diseases, which dominates health-care
delivery, medical research and medical education, is
insufficient to address the needs of those with multiple
morbidities,”  Graham Watt , professor of general practice at
Glasgow University, said in a press briefing today.  Among the poorest patients in the study group, about a
fifth of those with  heart disease , diabetes, respiratory
conditions or cancer also suffered from depression and almost a
third had chronic pain conditions. In general, people living in
more deprived areas were more likely to have multiple conditions
than those in more affluent areas due to higher prevalence of
smoking, fewer healthy dietary options and lower access to
health care, Watt said.  Medical systems in the U.K. and most other countries have a
“vertical” approach to treatment, where general practitioners
refer patients to specialists for serious health conditions.
Given the prevalence of people with multiple morbidities, this
method needs to be complemented by a horizontal approach that
integrates and coordinates patients’ various treatments, Watt
said.  Drug Development  Development of new drugs also fails to account for co-
morbidities, said  Stewart Mercer , professor of primary care
research at Glasgow University. At least 80 percent of clinical
trials exclude patients with multiple medical conditions, Mercer
said.  Without a change to the approach to care, the problem is
likely to worsen as patients live longer and develop more
ailments, said Bruce Guthrie, professor of primary care medicine
at Dundee University.  “If you aren’t killed by an acute condition, you’ll
survive to have multiple conditions,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  