-- Money-Market Stress Indicators Increase on Greece
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-05-09T13:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/money-market-stress-indicators-increase-on-greece.html
Money-market indicators signaled
increased stress in the market for borrow and lend short-term
funds as Greek politicians struggled to form a government,
fueling concern the nation may leave  Europe ’s currency union.  The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks reluctance to lend,
traded in the forward market widened to 35.4 basis points, the
June so-called FRA/OIS spread shows, from 33.4 basis points
yesterday.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, widened to 33.44 basis points, the most since January.
The gap is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking
sector credit risk as swap rates are derived from expectations
for dollar Libor. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors
in many types of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan
securities.  Greece , which has 436 million euros ($564 million) of debt
coming due on May 15, is struggling to form a government after
weekend elections. Syriza party leader, Alexis Tsipras, told his
political rivals they must renounce support for the European
Union-led bailout if there’s to be any chance of forging a
coalition. Tsipras meets today with leaders of the pro-austerity
New Democracy and Pasok parties.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which
represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to borrow
from another,  was  0.46685 percent, up from 0.46585 percent
yesterday and each day since April 24, according to the British
Bankers’ Association.  The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks reluctance to lend,
narrowed to 31.3 basis points from 31.9 basis points yesterday.
The gap was as high as 51 basis points this year on Jan. 6.
Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on where
the Fed’s effective funds rate will average for the term of the
swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a range of zero
to 0.25 percent.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market rose. The three-month cross-currency basis
swap was 47.5 basis points below Euribor, compared to 46.9 basis
points below yesterday. The basis swap rate was minus 162.5
basis points on Nov. 30.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, was little
changed. The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another
was 38 basis points, near the lowest since August.  The market for corporate borrowing through U.S.  commercial
paper  expanded the most in four months in the most recent weekly
data provided by the  Federal Reserve . The seasonally adjusted
amount of U.S. commercial paper jumped $14.1 billion to $939.9
billion outstanding in the week ended May 2. Corporations sell
commercial paper, typically maturing in 270 days or less, to
fund everyday activities such as paying rent and salaries.  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and U.S. dollars was minus 30.7 basis points, compared to
minus 30.1 yesterday. A negative swap price indicates investors
are willing to receive reduced interest payments on the yen they
lend in order to obtain the needed financing in dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  