-- Hong Kong Exchanges Said to Hire Banks for LME Bid Loan
-- B y   W e n d y   M o c k ,   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-05-09T16:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/hong-kong-exchanges-said-to-hire-banks-for-lme-bid-loan.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) 
hired  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and UBS AG to arrange
a loan to finance an offer for the London Metal Exchange,
according to a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to
be identified because the details are private.  LME, the world’s biggest metals bourse, began a process in
September that it said may lead to its sale.  CME Group Inc. (CME) ,
 NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  were among
suitors to submit offers before a May 7 deadline, according to
five people with direct knowledge of the matter. Hong Kong
Exchanges “continues to participate in the process,” Henry Law, a spokesman for the world’s second-biggest bourse by market
value, said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  The LME, founded more than a century ago in  London ’s
financial district, handles about 80 percent of global trading
in metals futures and reported record volume of $15.4 trillion
last year. The company said May 8 that it received multiple
proposals that may lead to it being acquired.  Scott Sapp, a spokesman at Hong Kong Exchanges, declined to
comment on the loan.  More than $30 billion of exchange mergers announced since
October 2010 failed amid populist outcry, antitrust concern and
volatile markets. The LME may be valued at about $1.3 billion,
Greenwich, Connecticut-based Equity Research Desk, an adviser to
hedge funds, said in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wendy Mock in Hong Kong at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  