-- Monte Paschi Office Searched by Italian Police Amid Probe
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-05-09T15:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/monte-paschi-office-searched-by-italian-police-amid-probe.html
Italian police searched the offices of
 Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA , the world’s oldest bank,
and its main investor as part of a market manipulation probe
into the acquisition of Banca Antonveneta SpA.  The investigation, conducted by prosecutors in Siena,
 Italy , is focused on transactions to obtain financing to buy
Antonveneta from  Spain ’s  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  in 2007, the
prosecutor’s office said in an e-mailed statement today. In
addition to alleged market manipulation, police are
investigating obstruction of regulatory activity, according to
the statement.  The alleged wrongdoing occurred between 2007 and 2012, the
prosecutors said. Searches also were carried out today at
foreign banks in Italy, according to the statement.  Monte Paschi will cooperate with the investigation, a
spokeswoman for the bank said by phone. The probe is focusing on
the sale of 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) of so-called FRESH,
hybrid securities sold in 2008 to finance the purchase of
Antonveneta, she said, declining to be identified because of
internal policy.  The investigation also involves possible market
manipulation on Monte Paschi’s share price, a spokesman of
 Fondazione Monte dei Paschi di Siena  said by phone. The
foundation is fully cooperating with the probe and it acted with
complete transparency, the spokesman said.  Share Movements  Prosecutors are reviewing unusual movements of the bank’s
shares in early January, the spokesman said. Monte Paschi shares
plunged 27 percent Jan. 3 to Jan. 9, compared with a 7 percent
decline of the Bloomberg Banks and Financial Services Index.  Monte Paschi  fell as much  as 10.3 percent today, and closed
down 7 percent to 23.3 cents in Milan trading. The bank, which
has a market value of about 2.8 billion euros, has dropped 7
percent this year, compared with the 1 percent decline of the
Bloomberg Banks and Financial Services Index.  Monte Paschi, Italy’s third-largest lender, paid 9 billion
euros to purchase Padua-based Antonveneta from  Banco Santander .
The Italian bank sold 5 billion euros of new shares to pay for
the deal, half of which was subscribed by Fondazione Monte
Paschi.  “This acquisition definitively cost too much,” said
Giulio Baresani Varini, head of  wealth management  at Millennium
SIM in Milan. “Developments in the case will be followed
closely by the market.”  Non-Profit Foundation  Fondazione Monte Paschi, a non-profit foundation, sold a 12
percent stake in the lender last month to repay loans obtained
to participate in the capital-raising transaction that financed
Monte Paschi’s acquisition of Antonveneta. The foundation, which
now owns 36.4 percent of the bank, spent almost 4 billion euros
to buy shares in two Monte Paschi rights offers that raised
about 7 billion euros from 2008 to 2011.  The foundation borrowed 490 million euros from Credit
Suisse Group AG and Mediobanca SpA in 2008 to finance the
purchase of the hybrid securities from Monte Paschi. It also
obtained a 600 million-euro loan guaranteed by the bank’s shares
with a pool of lenders to buy stock in Monte Paschi’ rights
offer in 2011.  Police searched also the offices of Mediobanca because it’s
“a subject informed about the facts,” a bank official said.  Monte Paschi has a capital shortfall of 3.3 billion euros,
the European Banking Authority said in December. In March the
bank reported a record 2011 loss of 5 billion euros because of
writedowns related to acquisitions. The bank, which must also
repay 1.9 billion euros of state aid provided in 2009, plans to
sell assets and convert hybrid securities to bolster finances.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  