-- Top U.S. Treasury Forecaster Says 10-Year Yield to Drop
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-05-09T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/top-u-s-treasury-forecaster-says-10-year-yield-to-drop.html
FTN Financial Chief Economist
Christopher Low, the most accurate forecaster of Treasury note
yields last year, said Europe’s financial turmoil and slow
growth may push 10-year yields to a record low of 1.5 percent.  Yields on the benchmark securities dropped yesterday to
1.79 percent, the lowest level in three months, as  Greece 
continues to struggle to form a new government. Demand for a
refuge also helped the U.S. sell $24 billion of the securities
at an auction record of 1.855 percent. Ten-year note  yields 
reached a record low of 1.67 percent in September.  “European investors are looking for alternative safe
havens where they can earn a little bit more and it’s coming
into the Treasury market,” Low said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “The combination of low growth and low inflation is
beneficial for bonds everywhere, including U.S. Treasuries.”  Low was the only one among 70 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey who predicted the yield would fall to 2 percent by the
end of last year. When 10-year yields were at a five-month high
of 2.4 percent in March, he forecast that yields would drop to
2.1 percent at the end of 2012.  “It’s likely that the U.S. 10-year Treasury yield will
work itself down to 1.5 percent by year-end,” said Low, who is
based in  New York .  A stand-off between Greek politicians since inconclusive
elections on May 6 has reignited concern the nation will be
unable to meet the terms of the two bailouts it has negotiated
since May 2010. With parliament split, the country at the center
of the debt crisis is again facing the risk of leaving the euro.  ‘Impossible to Maintain’  “The outcome of the elections is going to make the path
Europe was on almost impossible to maintain,” Low said. “The
move toward fiscal unity and austerity is almost
unsustainable.”  German 10-year bund yields dropped below 1.50 percent
yesterday for the first time since Bloomberg began collecting
the data in 1989. The yield slid as much as five basis points to
1.497 percent.  The flight to U.S. Treasuries is supported by expected
slower growth in the U.S., aggravated in part by the slowdown in
 Europe ’s economy, Low said, adding that the firm’s U.S. gross
domestic product forecast for 2012 remains 2 percent.  “There’s the direct economic implication which means a
loss of overseas business for U.S. businesses, and low global
inflation because demand for commodities from Europe is low,”
he said. “ Oil prices  have fallen in part because Europe is in a
recession and demand from  emerging markets  has changed. We’ve
probably seen the peak at least until winter.”  Growth Expectations  Treasuries rallied on May 4 as employers in the U.S. added
115,000 jobs in April, versus 160,000 projected by a Bloomberg
News survey of economists.  “It doesn’t seem likely we’ll be able to achieve more than
one quarter of 2.5 percent growth, or better, and I don’t think
that’s going to change,” Low said.  Gross domestic product rose at a 2.2 percent annual rate in
the first quarter, Commerce Department figures showed April 27
in  Washington . That followed a 3 percent pace in the prior
quarter and compared with the 2.5 percent median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The U.S. central bank bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two
rounds of so-called quantitative easing, known as QE1 and QE2,
from 2008 to 2011 to support the economy and is replacing $400
billion of short-term Treasuries in its holdings with longer-
term debt to keep borrowing costs down.  Inflation Outlook  There’s a 50 percent chance that the Fed will add more
 stimulus  to the economy, Low said.  “There has to be a shift, either significantly slower
growth or lower inflation,” he said. “It’s very unlikely we
get more fiscal stimulus. Monetary stimulus will be based on
growth and inflation. It’s a little premature given that there’s
a group in the Fed that’s strongly opposed to the idea.”  The Fed funds target rate is likely to remain at the
current zero to 0.25 percent level until late 2014, Low said.  In addition to the rush to safer assets from the sovereign
debt crisis, investors are also buying Treasuries amid a global
shortage of safer assets, Low said.  “Deficits are politically unpopular at the moment so that
reduces supply,” Low said. “Even in places like  Australia 
where austerity is not necessary, the government is pursuing it
partly because they made a promise to balance the budget and
partly because there’s resistance to deficits. Also corporate
bond issuance, particularly bank bonds, has slowed in part
because of the crisis in Europe.”  “If things get ugly in the financial markets, if sovereign
spreads spike to new highs, then we have to worry about all
corporate bonds coming under pressure and that would drive more
money into Treasuries,” Low said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  