-- Oracle Loses Bid for Ruling Google Didn’t Make ‘Fair Use’ of IP
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-05-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/oracle-loses-bid-for-ruling-google-use-of-ip-wasn-t-fair-use-1-.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  failed to convince a
federal judge in an intellectual property case that  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
unfairly used its technology in the search engine provider’s
Android software for mobile devices.  U.S. District Judge William Alsup in San Francisco denied
Oracle’s request for a ruling that could have established that
Google is liable for copyright infringement.  Oracle asked Alsup for a judgment in its favor on “fair
use” after a jury found that Google infringed parts of its Java
programming language and deadlocked on whether the copying
constituted fair use. Liability rests on whether there was fair
use, Alsup said after the jury reached a verdict May 7.  “I don’t think it would be right,” Alsup said at a
hearing yesterday. The decision could pave the way for a new
trial on the question of whether Google’s infringement makes it
liable for as much as $1 billion in damages for using parts of
Java to develop Android without paying for a license.  The legal doctrine of fair use states that anyone can use
copyrighted work without consent of the owner under certain
circumstances, such as for teaching, in news reporting and
commentary or to advance the public interest by creating
something new.  The May 7 jury verdict came in the first phase of an eight-
week trial that began April 16. The jury is hearing testimony
this week on Oracle’s claims that Google also infringed two Java
patents. The last phase of the trial will deal with damages.  The case is Oracle v. Google, 10-3561, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  