-- Torrisi’s $150 Tasting Menu Is New York Heaven: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-05-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/torrisi-s-150-tasting-menu-is-new-york-heaven-review.html
With its Polly-O mozzarella, chicken
parmesan sandwiches and portrait of  Billy Joel  on the wall,
Torrisi Italian Specialties was initially a curious venue best
known for three-hour waits and oddball tasting menus.  The payoff for your effort was seven or eight excellent
dishes, all for $50, in a cramped space with a lousy wine list.  Last November  Torrisi  raised its prices and eliminated the
inconveniences. Most of them. There are no more sandwiches for
lunch and no more lines outside.  Instead, you now wait a month for a prime-time table.  Those seven tasty plates now cost $65. Add a few oysters,
some Wagyu beef and an “Almond Joy” dessert and your bill
suddenly exceeds $100 before wine.  Fast fingers on the speed-dial might score a spot for the
20-course menu, limited to around 16 diners a night at $150 per
person ($225 with beverage pairings). Now we’re looking at $500-
plus per couple.  That’s a long way from 50 bucks a head, wait or no wait.  But guess what? That’s all right, because chefs Mario
Carbone and Rich Torrisi have transformed this tiny Nolita
restaurant from a casual spot into one of our city’s great
restaurants, a gustatory love letter to New York’s ethnic
neighborhoods, notably Chinatown, the Lower East Side and Little
 Italy .  What was cramped now feels clubby, and the service is as
refined as at any top restaurant.  Cashew Chicken  The 20-course tasting begins with soft-pretzel balls and
 Gulden’s  mustard dust. Then out comes a bite of cashew-covered
Chinese chicken.  Torrisi is definitely not Daniel.  Plump Montauk oysters are doused in deli-style pepper
vinegar; clams are anointed with  Schaefer  beer foam; black
sturgeon caviar (the good stuff) covers bite-size knishes.  The Italian agrodolce syrup on your plate is a homemade
 Manischewitz  Concord grape reduction. It’s grapey and musky, a
perfect match for lamb that’s humorously paired with Jerusalem
artichokes.  For spaghetti with blue crab, Torrisi mixes aji dulce,
Anaheim and cubanelle peppers, mimicking the flavor of pizza
pepperoni. Each course is presented in its own distinctive dish
and with matched service. You’re in each particular nabe for a
few idyllic minutes: Nostalgia refined.  Meat Frites  Even better than the spaghetti is the Delmonico steak
tartare. Tiny cubes of rib-eye are lightly seared to work up the
flavors. Then the kitchen tosses in some dry-aged beef fat for
oomph. Sweet gherkins sub for capers and an avant-garde
“bearnaise ravioli” subs for raw egg yolk. It all comes with
thick, chewy potato chips, which Torrisi should immediately
start selling at its  Yankee Stadium  sandwich stand.  Too bad those taters are only available on the $150 menu.
Still, those who opt for the $65 tasting will experience as much
culinary bliss as New York’s two and three-Michelin starred
restaurants.  Here’s what you get: creamy sweetbreads that boast the acid
balance of  Alain Ducasse  and the blackened grill marks of an
outdoor Bensonhurst barbecue. Striped bass sits in a tomato-and
oregano-heavy Manhattan clam chowder.  Pasta e fagioli, typically a minestrone-style soup, becomes
an Italian riff on ramen. Soft noodles sop up a gelatinous pig
trotter broth; ham oil adds smoke and kale pretends to make the
whole thing healthy.  This is all very precise cooking.  Sous-Vide  Duck gets the five-hour sous-vide treatment for succulence
while American Wagyu short ribs chill out in a high-tech vapor
oven for a 10 hour journey to rare before getting a quick
steakhouse char. The marbled meat melts in the mouth just like
the Japanese stuff, with a clean beefy flavor.  To pair with the short ribs, smart diners will choose the
leathery  Wind Gap  Syrah for $20, poured into an elegant
 Spiegelau  stem; most of the old thick-lipped glasses have been
banished.  Torrisi’s beverage offerings have improved, but wine is
still the restaurant’s weak spot. The all-American list would be
nobler if it showed off America’s best wines. Estimable
sparklers from  Lieb Cellars  and  Roederer Estate  were the only
Champagne-imitators offered by the glass recently; why not show
off more ambitious and alternative bubbly from  Iron Horse  or  J
Vineyards ?  No matter. Ginger Italian ices cleanse the palate and all
of a sudden you’re eating high-end peppermint patties with
ricotta cannoli.  Torrisi isn’t perfect. But it comes close.  Rating: ***1/2  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: $65 for shorter menu; $150 for longer tasting.  Sound Level: Around 70 decibels; very pleasant.  Date Place: Yes.  Inside Tip: Easiest reservations are for weekend lunch.  Special Feature: Polenta as sweet as cornbread.  Back on My Own Dime: Yes, for the Wagyu.  Torrisi Italian Specialties is at 250 Mulberry St.
Information: +1-212-965-0955;  http://www.torrisinyc.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on books and Upper
East Side  galleries .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 