-- Hot Air Balloon Tragedy Pilot Had Smoked Marijuana, Probe Finds
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-05-09T23:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/hot-air-balloon-tragedy-pilot-had-smoked-marijuana-probe-finds.html
The pilot of a hot air balloon that
crashed in New Zealand in January, killing him and all 10
passengers, was flying with marijuana in his system,
investigators said.  While findings hadn’t yet linked cannabis use to the
accident, the test results were “concerning”, the Transport
Accident Investigation Commission said in its  interim report  on
the tragedy. The findings are one of seven main lines of inquiry
the Commission is pursuing, according to the report.  The balloon struck  power lines  and caught fire as it was
preparing to land after a 45-minute flight near Carterton, about
50 miles (80 kilometers) northeast of the capital, Wellington.
After flames erupted, two passengers jumped from the basket to
their deaths before the craft crashed to the ground.  “Toxicology tests from the pilot had returned a positive
result for cannabis, and further inquiry and analysis related to
this issue was underway,” said TAIC on its website.  The commission is also investigating the certification and
maintenance of balloons and any potential malfunction during the
accident, as well as “performance-impairing substances and
their effects on pilot performance,” it said.  The Jan. 7 accident followed recent  New Zealand  disasters
including last year’s earthquake in Christchurch that killed 185
and subsequent aftershocks that left the nation facing a damage
bill of at least NZ$20 billion. Explosions at the Pike River
coal mine in October 2010 claimed 29 lives.  The balloon accident was the biggest loss of New Zealand
life in an air accident since 1979, when an Air New Zealand Ltd.
sightseeing flight over  Antarctica  crashed into Mount Erebus and
killed all 257 passengers and crew.  An accident in 1989 resulted in 13 deaths when two balloons
collided near the central Australian town of Alice Springs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  