-- Motorola Solutions’ $200 Million Stockholder Accord Approved
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-05-09T18:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/motorola-solutions-200-million-stockholder-settlement-approved.html
Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI)  gained final
federal court approval of a $200 million settlement with
shareholders who sued the company and top executives in 2007 for
allegedly overstating its prospects in the prior year.  “I am finding the settlement is fair and reasonable and is
hereby approved,” U.S. District Judge Matthew Kennelly in
 Chicago  said at a hearing today.  The lawsuit was filed in August 2007 after the company,
then known as Motorola Inc., had fallen to the world’s third-
biggest maker of mobile phones behind South Korea’s  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  A year earlier, it had ranked second to
Finland’s  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)   A maker of two-way radios, bar-code scanners and radio-
frequency identification, the company changed its name to
Motorola Solutions last year after spinning off its mobile-phone
making unit, christened Motorola Mobility Inc.  “We are pleased to have this behind us as it removes the
risks and distractions of litigation,”  Nicholas Sweers , a
spokesman for Schaumburg, Illinois-based Motorola Solutions,
said today in a telephone interview.  “Its a terrific result for the class,” said attorney
James E. Barz, a partner in the Chicago office of San Diego-
based Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP, lead counsel for the
stockholders.  Class Action  In 2009, the court certified a class of investor plaintiffs
who held Motorola stock from July 2006 to January 2007. The lead
plaintiffs in the case were the Macomb County Employees’
Retirement System and the St. Clair Shores Police & Fire Pension
System, both of Michigan.  U.S. District Judge Amy St. Eve in Chicago granted
tentative approval of the settlement in February. Kennelly today
told lawyers for both sides that St. Eve was out of town and
unavailable to preside over the final approval hearing.  In a May 7 ruling, she rejected two shareholders’
objections to the accord. In a separate decision, St. Eve
awarded attorneys for the shareholders 27.5 percent of the
settlement amount, or $55 million, plus $4.7 million in costs.  The case is Silverman v.  Motorola Inc. (MMI) , 07-cv-4507, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  