-- Our Gift for Good Stories Blinds Us to the Truth
-- B y   R e i d   H a s t i e
-- 2012-05-09T23:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/our-gift-for-good-stories-blinds-us-to-the-truth.html
As commentators, politicians and
academics struggle to make sense of the recent financial crisis
and its ramifications, many of their accounts seek to identify a
root cause or the “beginning of the story.”  Theories abound: Former Federal Reserve Board Chairman  Alan Greenspan ’s “easy money” for banks; the blindness of the credit-
rating companies; strategies that encouraged low-income
Americans to own homes; the invention of high-risk investment
instruments; high-leveraged borrowing; short-sighted executives;
greedy investment bankers; lying real-estate dealers, and so on.  We know there was no single cause or event that set in
motion the crisis and that the truth is complex and multicausal.
So why do we keep seeking the easy answers? It may be that we
are hard-wired to do so.  The human brain is designed to support two modes of
thought: visual and narrative. These forms of thinking are
universal across human societies throughout history, develop
reliably early in individuals’ lives, and are associated with
specialized regions of the brain. What isn’t universal or
natural is the kind of highly structured cognitive processes
that underlie logical and mathematical thinking -- the kinds of
analysis that produce the most remarkable human cultural
products, especially scientific achievements such as
interplanetary travel, electronic devices and genetic
engineering. They also allow the types of analysis needed to
design effective economic policies and business strategies.  Visual Thinking  Nonetheless, we shouldn’t underestimate the powers of our
innate visual and narrative cognitive systems. The human visual
system is a remarkably adept interpreter of the physical
environment. It still beats any non-human software at object
recognition. And, we navigate complex three-dimensional
environments, even when moving at speeds far beyond those
afforded by our physical bodies, with amazingly few accidents.  And compared with all other animals, we are endowed with
remarkable capacities for causal discovery and causal reasoning,
the skills that underlie the narrative habit. The divide between
human and our nearest primate cousins in causal cognition
capacities is as dramatic as our advantage in language use.  The trouble is that narrative thinking often supplants
scientific thinking in domains of analysis and policy where we
should look for more than a good story. Narrative thinking is
easier for the thinker than its less natural analytic
alternatives, and it is often persuasive when used to make
arguments to others.  For one thing, narratives give us a false sense of
understanding and control, when they are really mere
redescriptions of selected subparts of the events to which they
refer. Once we have a good narrative summary, we have the
illusion that we could have intervened and controlled outcomes,
or could have predicted what in hindsight seems to be an obvious
outcome. But, unlike valid causal explanations that support
informative forecasts and suggest ways to change events further
down the causal stream, narratives lack these basic properties
of true causal explanations.  Narratives also tend to be dominated by a few major actors,
and faux explanatory power is derived from simplistic
interpretations of those actors’ characters and motives. And the
universal human illusion that consciously accessible thoughts
are in the driver’s seat and controlling our own actions means
that the salient actors in a narrative we want to understand are
attributed information and incentives to a greater degree than
is warranted.  New Model  The mathematics of causal reasoning has recently
experienced a major change, with the widespread acceptance of
 Bayesian Causal Networks  as a normative, rational model for
causal induction and reasoning. Now, analytic approaches to
causal discovery and causal analysis are becoming the gold
standard and replacing expert intuitions about causes in
important scientific and policy situations. (Acceptance is not
universal, of course, and the Causal Networks approach is new
and still “under development.”)  My University of  Chicago  colleague  Benjamin Rottman  and I
recently reviewed research on intuitive human causal reasoning.
We compared human reasoning habits against the “rational”
prescriptions from the Bayesian Causal Networks model and found
that, as with vision, humans are remarkably well-adapted and
close to rational in most regards.  One of the most subtle causal inferences involves reasoning
about effects or outcomes that are multiply caused by several
“cause events.” If the multiple causes are independent of one
another, what mathematicians call a “noisy or gate,” the
occurrence of each causal event increases the likelihood the
effect-event will occur, independent of the contributions of
other causes that may or may not be present. Under this
condition, knowing that the effect has occurred and that any one
of the possible causes has also occurred should rationally lower
belief in the occurrence of any of the other causes.  This subtle result is called “discounting” or “explaining
away.” That is because the presence of the effect plus some
causes makes it less likely that another cause occurred or is
needed to “explain” the effect.  For example, if an outcome, such as a forest fire, is most
likely produced by any one of several independent causes, then
when we are sure that one cause is arson, we should rationally
reduce our belief that it was caused by something else, such as
lightning or a careless camper.  It appears, however, that humans are a bit too eager to
“discount,” and discounting is an error, when conjunctions of
causes are the correct explanation, as they usually are. This
habit can get us into trouble when we’re reasoning about complex
multiply caused events. Perhaps the single-factor explanations
for the recent financial recession reflect a bias produced by
over-discounting.  First Causes  Another subtle irrationality in causal reasoning stems from
our quest for a coherent, well-formed story. The legendary
theorists of decision-making  Amos Tversky  and  Daniel Kahneman 
 illustrated  this habit with the following pair of judgment
questions: One group of respondents was asked, “What is the
probability that a massive flood will occur sometime in the next
year and drown more than 1,000 Americans?” The typical estimate
was low (less than 20 percent). But, when another comparable
sample of respondents was asked, “What is the probability that
an earthquake in  California  will be followed by a flood in the
next year that drowns at least 1,000 Americans?” the estimates
were significantly higher.  The irrationality is that the second question is about a
much more specific event, an earthquake that would be only one
of the several reasons for the flood referred to in the first
question. It is logically impossible for the second probability
to be higher than the first. But, because the second question
provides a plausible scenario for the unlikely outcome in the
first query, our innate preference for a good story trumps our
logical thinking skills.  So the next time you hear a good story about why the
financial recession, or any other economically significant
event, was caused by a single collection of bad actors -- or how
a simple linear narrative “explains” an important event --
remember this: Just as we are wired to like a diet rich in fats
and sugars, we have an appetite for simple, coherent narratives.
Neither habit is good for our long-term health.  (Reid Hastie, a professor of behavioral science at the
 University of Chicago  Booth School of Business, is a contributor
to  Business Class . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  India’s economic
crossroads  and  monitoring mad-cow disease ; A.A. Gill on  London’s
shareholder revolt ;  Ezra Klein  on  Richard Lugar’s concession
speech ;  Noah Feldman  on  Israel’s new coalition ;  Caroline Baum  on
the  nature of U.S. unemployment ; Sam Sherraden on  China’s
liberalization .  To contact the writer of this article:
Reid Hastie at  reid.hastie@chicagobooth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net  