-- Lower Bank Loan Rates Forecast as Volatility Ebbs: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-10T04:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/lower-bank-loan-rates-forecast-as-volatility-ebbs-china-credit.html
Regulators will permit banks to set
lower interest  rates  on loans as soon as this year, a survey
showed, as price swings ebb in  China ’s bond market.  Lenders, now only allowed to set borrowing costs 10 percent
lower than the central bank’s 6.56 percent benchmark, will be
given a wider range by the end of this year, according to six of
10 economists surveyed over the past two weeks by Bloomberg
News. Three said such a move will occur in 2013.  Central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said last month
inflation and capital-flow trends are important as policy makers
seek a “suitable” time to loosen control of interest rates.
The 100-day historical  volatility  of the 10-year government bond
fell to a four-year low of 6.32 percent from as high as 14.46
percent on Dec. 7, according to Chinabond data. That compares
with 10.2 percent for benchmark Indian debt.  “A more stable market would facilitate interest-rate
liberalization,” said Darius Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based
strategist with Credit Agricole CIB. The 10-year bond’s lower
volatility “reflects the fact that Chinese data has stabilized
after weakening” at the end of 2011, he said.  The world’s second-largest economy expanded 8.1 percent in
the first three months, the slowest pace in 11 quarters as
export growth moderated and regulators restricted property
investment. Export growth weakened more than analysts forecast
in April to 4.9 percent from a year earlier, while imports
gained a less-than-estimated 0.3 percent, based on data today
and Bloomberg News surveys. The statistics bureau will probably
say tomorrow that consumer-price increases slowed to 3.4 percent
in April from a year earlier.  Rates Decline  Interest rates  in China have diverged from central bank
benchmarks in recent months. The three-month Shanghai interbank
offered  rate  slid 17 basis points, or 0.17 percentage point, in
April, to 4.71 percent, on speculation the central bank will
increase cash supplies to spur lending. It was at 4.63 percent
today. AAA one-year corporate bond yields are near an 11-month
low at 4.17 percent, spurring a 32 percent jump in debt sales
this year to 1.09 trillion yuan.  China’s  interest-rate swaps  are falling as the central bank
adding funds to the financial system by selling reverse
repurchase contracts. While the one-year swap rate fell two
basis points to 3.24 percent, it is still up 11 basis points
this quarter.  The 10-year government bond yield has been little changed
at around 3.54 percent for the past three months, reflecting
speculation that central-bank support will buoy the economy.  Lower Costs  Liberalization would lead to lower borrowing costs and spur
 growth , said Joy Yang of Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd., who
previously worked for the  International Monetary Fund .  “China may widen the float range for lending rates in June
or July, when inflation will likely slip below 3 percent,
increasing room for policy easing,” said Mirae’s Yang, who is
based in Hong Kong.  China’s one-year deposit rate  stands  at 3.5 percent. Banks
are banned from offering savings rates higher than the
benchmark, while lending rates are not subject to any official
ceiling and are allowed to float 10 percent below the fixing.  An artificial gap between rates banks pay depositors and
the money they charge on borrowers has helped create the world’s
most-profitable lenders. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  has called
for breaking a “monopoly” of state-owned banks that make easy
profits.  Excessive Profits  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s
most-profitable lender, earned 208 billion  yuan  ($33 billion) in
2011, up 26 percent from the previous year. Its net interest
income rose 19 percent to 362.8 billion yuan, more than triple
fee income of 101.6 billion yuan.  Seven of the 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg said the
government’s next action on loosening interest-rate controls
will be to allow a wider range of lending costs. The remaining
three analysts said the government will allow greater latitude
for both loans and deposits.  “Widening the range of lending rates is the more likely
and practical way to help cushion against an economic
downturn,” said  Lu Zhengwei , Shanghai-based chief economist at
Industrial Bank Co. Allowing higher deposit rates is riskier
because it would spark “vicious” competition among banks for
funds, Lu said.  ‘Pros and Cons’  Zhou, head of the  People’s Bank of China , said the
government may decide first to relax controls on lending rates,
according to an interview with Caijing magazine published April
23. Changes to the system tend to be easier when inflation is
“relatively low,” while rushing to loosen the hold on deposit
rates may induce speculative inflows of funds, he said. “The
key is how to gauge the pros and cons of the reforms.”  Banks’ objections may weigh on an overhaul of the system,
which needs consensus among senior leaders, said Wang Jun, a
researcher with the government-backed China Center for
International Economic Exchanges in Beijing. “They are direct
participants in the reform with their interests closely linked
to the process,” he said.  Widening the lending rate range may cause corporate
profitability to fluctuate without resulting in lower pricing on
loans at a time when funding demand remains “robust,” Wang
said.  Jonathan Anderson , a former UBS AG economist who worked as
an IMF representative in China in the 1990s, said it will be at
least five years before China completely removes rate controls.  Stable Markets  Price swings are also limited in the foreign-exchange
market. The yuan slipped 0.04 percent to 6.3120 per dollar in
 Shanghai  and has held around the 6.3 level all year, according
to the China Foreign Exchange Trading System.  Five-year contracts insuring Chinese government debt
against default were at 122 basis points yesterday, down from
147 at the start of the year, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. Credit-default swaps
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent if a government or company
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  “The timing is appropriate” to loosen interest-rate
controls, though the process may be gradual, said  Zhu Haibin ,
chief China economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Hong Kong , who
formerly worked at the  Bank for International Settlements . At
the same time, China is unlikely to make “major changes” this
year, Zhu said, citing economic uncertainties at home and abroad
as well as a leadership reshuffle.  --Victoria Ruan. With assistance from  Judy Chen  in Shanghai and
Ailing Tan in  Singapore . Editor: Sandy Hendry  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  