-- Toyota Forecasts Profit Will Double to Highest in 5 Years
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-05-09T10:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/toyota-forecasts-profit-will-double-highest-in-5-years-1-.html
Toyota (TOM)  Motor Corp.,  Asia ’s biggest
carmaker, forecast profit will more than double to a five-year
high as it shakes off last year’s natural disasters and
introduces new models to regain market share.  Net income  may increase to 760 billion yen ($9.5 billion)
in the fiscal year ending March 2013, after falling to 283.6
billion yen, the Toyota City, Japan-based carmaker said today.
The profit forecast was 7 percent below the average analyst
estimate compiled by Bloomberg, while the company projected
higher-than-expected revenue growth.  Chief Executive Officer  Akio Toyoda , 56, is rolling out new
Prius hybrids, Corolla compacts and Lexus sedans to regain lost
ground in what may be his first crisis-free year since becoming
president in 2009. While production has returned to normal, the
grandson of the founder now faces a reborn General Motors Co.
that’s leading the industry in global sales, a rising  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380)  and a growing  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  that’s dominating luxury-
car sales in  China .  The earnings show “they have strong confidence of
improving profits and regaining market share, mainly in the U.S.
but other markets as well,” said Kunihiko Shiohara, an analyst
at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in  Tokyo . “It’s going to give quite a
favorable impression on the auto industry as a whole, as well as
impressions on the Japanese economy.”  Recouping Losses  Toyota rose as much as 0.8 percent in Frankfurt trading
after the revenue forecast of 22 trillion yen was 6 percent
higher than the average analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg.
The projection for operating profit of 1 trillion yen was in
line with expectations.  The company reported results after the close of trading in
Tokyo, where Toyota  shares  have gained 23 percent this year,
outperforming Nissan Motor Co.,  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and GM.  The maker of Corolla and Camry sedans said that deliveries
-- including those of its  Daihatsu Motor Co. (7262)  and  Hino Motors Ltd. (7205) 
subsidiaries -- will increase 18 percent to 8.7 million vehicles
this fiscal year, led by North America, where sales will climb
26 percent to 2.35 million units. They’ll increase 6.2 percent
in  Japan , 34 percent in the rest of Asia and 10 percent in
 Europe  Toyota said.  The recovery began last quarter, with net income more than
quadrupling to 121 billion yen as Toyota cranked up  production 
36 percent and the Japanese market became profitable for the
first time in more than two years. The yen, which appreciated
and eroded the value of Japanese exports during 2010 and 2011,
became this year’s worst performer by the end of March.  Not Enough  The rebound wasn’t enough to keep full-year income from
tumbling 31 percent as the March 11 Japanese disaster and
subsequent floods in  Thailand  crippled automotive output. Toyota
wasn’t alone as Tokyo-based Honda last month reported annual
profit fell 60 percent and Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan, which
reports May 11, has said since February that net income would
slide 7.9 percent in the year ended March 2012.  Toyota, saddled with the highest proportion of Japanese
production among the nation’s three largest carmakers, is slower
than Nissan and Honda in recovering. While Toyota is forecasting
it’s operating profit margin to reach 4.5 percent this fiscal
year, Honda expects to reach 6 percent and analysts estimate
Nissan to hit 7.2 percent.  ‘Slow’ Toyota  “We know Toyota is slow in taking action but it’s about
time for them to answer how long they will stick to Japanese
production at the expense of being profitable and globally
competitive,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , chief executive officer at
Fukoku Capital Management Inc. in Tokyo. “It’s one lap behind
other carmakers.”  Still, Toyota’s projections indicate it will earn more than
 GM (GM) , which last week  reported  net income fell 61 percent to $1.32
billion on losses and restructuring costs in Europe. Analysts
estimate the Detroit-based company will earn $7.38 billion over
the next four quarters, excluding preferred dividends, which
last year totaled $1.61 billion.  After ceding its title as the world’s largest automaker to
GM in 2011, not much is going wrong for Toyota in its two
biggest markets this year.  Pent-up demand and government subsidies, which last until
January, have helped Japan grow faster than any other major auto
market this year. Passenger-vehicle sales in the country have
jumped 57 percent during the first four months of 2012, led by
Toyota’s Prius hybrids, according to the  Japan Automobile
Dealers Association . That benefited Toyota as it generated 60
percent of its revenue from Japan last fiscal year.  Home Market  The reliance on its home market may decline as Toyota
forecast its deliveries to  North America  will overtake those of
Japan this fiscal year. Toyota’s sales in the U.S. have
increased 12 percent this year -- outpacing GM,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
Nissan and Honda -- on demand for the Camry sedan and the Prius
hybrids, as buyers who put off purchases returned to dealerships
to find more fuel-efficient models.  Total U.S. light-vehicle sales, which rose to a  seasonally
adjusted annual rate  of 14.4 million in April, have exceeded
analysts’ estimates three out of four months this year.  In Europe and China, where auto sales fell during the first
quarter, Toyota has been less vulnerable to slumping demand
because it is less reliant on those markets than companies such
as  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and GM. Toyota, which had a global market
share of about 10 percent in 2011, accounted for 3.2 percent of
Europe’s market and 4.3 percent in China, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Spending Plans  Toyota made about half of its vehicles in Japan in the year
ended March, making it more vulnerable to a stronger yen than
its nearest rivals.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , Japan’s second-biggest
carmaker, built a quarter of its vehicles in Japan and Honda
Motor Co. about 30 percent.  Toyota is basing this year’s profit forecasts on an
exchange rate of 80 yen to the dollar and 105 yen to the euro.
The stronger yen cut operating profit by 250 billion yen in the
year ended March 31, Toyota said today. The company plans to
increase research and development spending 3.9 percent to 810
billion yen and capital expenditure 16 percent.  For Toyoda, the natural disasters followed the crisis he
oversaw during 2009 and 2010, when defects related to unintended
acceleration led to the recall of more than 10 million vehicles
-- more than Toyota has sold in its best year.  “We want this year to be a calm year,” Toyoda said today.
“It’s only been five months, but we expect everyone’s efforts
to shine this year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  