-- Peltz Takes 7.3% Stake in Ingersoll-Rand, Seeks Talks
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-05-09T19:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/peltz-takes-7-3-stake-in-ingersoll-rand-seeks-talks.html
Nelson Peltz ’s Trian Fund Management
LP took a 7.3 percent stake in  Ingersoll-Rand (IR)  Plc and is seeking
to meet with management about ways to boost the industrial
group’s underperforming stock.  Trian controls the equivalent of 21.9 million shares, the
New York-based hedge fund said in a filing today with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The firm said it plans to
meet with members of the board and top executives of the Swords,
Ireland-based  Ingersoll-Rand .  “While the issuer has an attractive collection of
businesses, total shareholder returns and profitability have
lagged peers,” Trian said in the filing. The fund said it may
seek changes such as “a restructuring of its key business
segments.”  Ingersoll- Rand  rose 7.1 percent, the most since November,
to $45.28 at 2:48 p.m. in  New York , giving Peltz’s stake a value
of about $992 million. The stock had declined 17 percent in the
12 months through yesterday, compared with a gain of 1.3 percent
by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Largest Stake  Peltz, who is the largest investor in fast-food chain
 Wendy’s Co. (WEN) , is known for buying stakes in companies and then
pushing them to increase their value by cutting costs or
merging. Suggestions to Ingersoll-Rand may include “enhancing
operating margins to levels comparable to those achieved in peer
businesses,” using “prudent amounts of leverage” for share
buybacks, and “steps to better align management compensation”
with the company’s performance, the firm said.  Ingersoll-Rand would rank as Trian’s largest stake in a
U.S. traded company, based on data in a Form 13F that the hedge
fund filed on its holdings as of Dec. 31. At that time,  Family
Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO)  ranked as Trian’s biggest position with a
market value of almost $575 million.  Trian had about $3.4 billion in assets under management as
of Feb. 1, according to a March filing. Trian’s price objective
for its investments is driven primarily by increasing earnings
and cash flow, through higher sales and lower expenses, rather
than by “financial engineering,” such as breaking up a company
or recapitalizing it, according to the SEC registration.  Ingersoll-Rand manufactures and markets refrigeration and
heating, ventilation and air-conditioning systems under the
brand names Thermo King and Trane. The company’s other brands
include Schlage and American Standard.  Ingersoll Rand Chief Executive Officer Mike Lamach last
year pushed back his goal of boosting operating margins to 15
percent to 17 percent by 2013 from 9.7 percent in 2011 because
of a lagging construction recovery,  Nick Heymann , an analyst
with William Blair & Co., wrote in a note today.  Lamach “has repeatedly stated that the goal of the company
is to fix its businesses before considering changes to the
company’s business portfolio,” Heymann said.  Calstrs Shares  According to the  SEC filing , Trian paid $582.2 million to
acquire 14.3 million Ingersoll-Rand shares, which works out to
an average price of $40.76 each. In addition, the hedge fund
entered into option agreements with Nomura International Plc and
Bank of America Merrill Lynch that permit Trian to acquire
another 7.6 million Ingersoll-Rand shares from the two
securities firms for $308.5 million.  Trian’s holdings include shares owned by the California
State Teachers’ Retirement System, a public  pension plan  also
known as Calstrs. The pension plan holds its own Ingersoll-Rand
shares and also owns some through a Trian co-investment vehicle.  “Ingersoll Rand regularly and actively engages with all of
our investors, and we welcome, respect and appreciate the
constructive views of our shareholders,” Misty Zelent, a
spokeswoman for the firm, said today in an e-mailed statement.
“We believe that maintaining a dialogue with our shareholders
helps inform us on ways to create further value for our
organization.”  Jonathan Doorley, a spokesman for Trian, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  