-- Pfizer’s Arthritis Pill Backed by U.S. FDA Advisory Panel
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-05-09T20:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/pfizer-s-arthritis-pill-backed-by-u-s-fda-advisory-panel.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s experimental pill to
treat rheumatoid arthritis, one of the drugmaker’s leading
therapy candidates, should be approved by U.S. regulators, an
advisory panel said.  Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, is seeking to sell
the pill, tofacitinib, for patients who don’t respond to other
rheumatoid arthritis treatments. A panel of advisers to the  Food
and Drug Administration  recommended in an 8-2 vote today in
 Silver Spring ,  Maryland , that the agency clear the drug for
sale. The FDA isn’t required to follow the panel’s advice.  Tofacitinib is one of three experimental drugs from New
York-based Pfizer that this year will receive an approval
decision or report key data. If cleared for sale, the arthritis
pill may generate $1.5 billion annually by 2020, John Boris, an
analyst with Citigroup Inc. in  New York , said in a May 7 note.  While Pfizer’s pill has safety concerns, they are similar
to other rheumatoid arthritis drugs on the market, said David
Blumenthal, a professor of medicine at  Case Western Reserve
University  and a member of the panel.  “This is as good as is possible at this stage in the
game,” Blumenthal said at today’s panel meeting. Panel members
also said they wanted to see more data on the drug’s safety
after it was approved.  Autoimmune Disease  Rheumatoid arthritis  is an autoimmune disease in which the
body attacks itself. It causes swelling and damage in the
joints, which can make basic tasks such as walking or holding
items painful. The condition is treated with anti-inflammatory
pills like aspirin, or drugs that attack the disease directly by
modifying the immune system such as  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s Enbrel and
 Abbott Laboratories’ (ABT)  Humira.  About 1.3 million people in the U.S. had the disease in
2009, according to the  National Institutes of Health . Early
detection can help slow or stop its progression.  Pfizer  rose  0.1 percent to $22.45 at the close in New York.
Abbott declined 2.2 percent to $61.23 and Amgen fell 1.5 percent
to $69.62.  “Pfizer appreciated the robust discussion regarding
tofacitinib,” Kristen Neese, a company spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail after the vote. “The clinical trial results demonstrated
a favorable benefit-risk profile and support the approval of
tofacitinib. We look forward to continuing our dialogue with the
FDA.”  Dose Questions  The  panel  also voted 7-2 that the pill was safe, and 10-0
that it was effective. Questions will now turn to how broad of
an indication Pfizer can get from the FDA, and whether the
agency will approve the proposed 5-milligram and 10-milligram
doses. The FDA is slated to decide on the drug by Aug. 21.  Panel members said they wanted to see more data on the
drug’s safety profile, and asked that Pfizer conduct follow-up
studies once the treatment goes on the market.  “I’m a little concerned about the data showing increasing
risks,” said Lenore Buckley, a panel member and professor at
the Virginia Commonwealth University School of Medicine in
Richmond.  Buckley said she was concerned that infections and
malignancies in patients on the drug seemed to be connected to
the length of time they stayed on the medicine. “The 5-
milligram dose looks better, but I’m not sure it would look
better at five or 10 years,” she said.  Pfizer argued that both doses were effective and should be
approved. “The committee feels some concern about the possible
toxicities,” Buckley said. “I don’t think anybody on the
committee has spoken out that the 10-milligram dose shouldn’t be
a possibility.”  Staff Report  In a May 7 report, FDA staff said they had “serious safety
concerns” about tofacitinib. Rheumatoid arthritis treatments
that affect the immune system can have side effects including
increased infections and cancers. Regulators also consider
whether the medicines increase cardiovascular problems and
kidney toxicity.  The panel also voted 8-2 that the drug didn’t stop the
progression of the disease, measured by scans of patients’
joints. Panel members said that was a difficult measure, though,
and one that can’t always be relied on to assess a treatment’s
efficacy.  “We’re going to be setting ourselves up for difficulties
by setting the bar a little bit too high,” said  Leslie
Crofford , chief of rheumatology at the University of  Kentucky 
College of Medicine in Lexington, Kentucky, and a panel member.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  