-- PGA Tour’s Finchem Says Masters Too Important Even With No Women
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-05-09T20:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/pga-tour-s-finchem-says-masters-too-important-even-with-no-women.html
U.S. PGA Tour  Commissioner Tim Finchem
said the  Masters Tournament  is “too important” to golf for his
group not to recognize the event because of Augusta National
Golf Club’s all-male membership.  Golf’s richest circuit won’t change its position on the
issue because “we don’t have to,” Finchem said in a  press
conference  today in  Ponte Vedra Beach ,  Florida , site of the
Players championship.  “We have concluded a number of times now, and we have
certainly not moved off of this; that we are not going to give
up the Masters as a tournament on our tour,” Finchem said.
“It’s too important. At the end of the day, the membership of
that club has to determine their membership. They are not doing
anything illegal.”  Augusta National, a private club in Augusta,  Georgia , that
hosts the season’s first Grand Slam tournament each April, has
been the subject of criticism over its male-only membership
policy. The issue gained attention this year when International
Business Machines Corp. promoted Virginia “Ginni” Rometty to
chief executive officer. The club historically invites the CEO
of IBM to be a member, including the four previous chief
executives. IBM is a Masters sponsor.  According to PGA Tour policy, clubs that host a tournament
co-sanctioned by the tour must maintain non-discriminatory
policies on the basis of religion, sex or national origin. The
Masters is not a co-sanctioned event and has no contract with
the PGA Tour.  Buffett’s View  Billy Payne , the club’s chairman, declined to discuss the
membership issue when asked during last month’s tournament.
Payne said the club’s policies will remain private.  Warren Buffett , an Augusta National member and chairman of  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said in an interview with Bloomberg Television on
March 5 that he would allow women to join the club if he were in
charge.  Steve Ethun, a spokesman for the tournament, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail today seeking comment on
Finchem’s remarks.  The tournament will continue to be recognized as an
official event because “we think it’s that important to golf,”
Finchem said. Money won and scores and statistics compiled
during the invitational event run by Augusta National will
continue to be used as part of the  PGA Tour ’s season-long
results.  “We don’t get to determining whether their policies are
right or wrong, because we don’t have to,” Finchem said. “I
know some people don’t like that position, and I appreciate that
and I understand their reasoning, but that’s the decision we’ve
made.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 