-- Philippine Peso Weakens on Renewed Europe Concern; Bonds Gain
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-05-09T08:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/philippine-peso-weakens-on-renewed-europe-concern-bonds-drop.html
The Philippine peso fell by the most
in seven weeks as signs Greek leaders will back away from
bailout agreements added to concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will
derail the global economic recovery. Ten-year bonds advanced.  Alexis Tsipras, the head of  Greece ’s Syriza party that came
second in elections over the weekend, said he plans to form a
government that would nationalize banks, repeal recent labor
reforms and cancel the bailout accords. U.S. employers added the
fewest number of jobs in six months in April, official data
showed last week, while the price of oil has fallen 9 percent to
$96.48 a barrel in  New York  since May 1.  “Weakness in the euro on concerns over Greece fanned
another round of  risk aversion ,” said Roland Avante, president
at Philippine Business Bank in Manila. “Weak economic data from
the U.S. pushed  oil prices  lower, reducing the threat of
inflation. The concern is shifting back to growth.”  The peso fell 0.4 percent to 42.42 per dollar at the close
in Manila, prices from Tullett Prebon Plc showed. One-month
implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate swings used to
price options, was unchanged at 5 percent.  Government spending  probably accelerated last month from
March, Budget Secretary Butch Abad said yesterday. The
Philippines will probably increase the budget in 2013 by 10
percent to 2 trillion pesos ($47 billion), Budget Undersecretary
Laura Pascua said.  The yield on the 5.75 percent government bonds due November
2021 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.48
percent, according to Tradition Financial Services. It rose two
basis points earlier.  The Philippine Congress passed proposed changes to tobacco
and liquor taxes at the committee level, allowing lawmakers to
start debate on the matter, presidential spokesman Edwin
Lacierda said today. The nation may win credit-rating upgrades
and eventually secure investment-grade status if the measure,
one of the “requirements” of rating companies, is implemented,
Lacierda said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  