-- Polish Bond Yields Hit 3-Week High After Unexpected Rate Rise
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-05-09T13:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/polish-bond-yields-hit-3-week-high-after-unexpected-rate-rise.html
Polish bond yields rose to a three-
week high after the central bank unexpectedly raised borrowing
costs by a quarter point to 4.75 percent to curb inflation.  The yield on two-year bonds rose two basis points to 4.72
percent as of 3:10 p.m. in Warsaw, the highest level since April
18, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Polish monetary-policy makers raised the benchmark seven-
day interest rate by 25 basis points to the highest since
January 2009, matching the forecast of nine of 31 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Twenty-two economists predicted no
change. Official borrowing costs rose for the first time since
June after inflation exceeded policy makers’ 2.5 percent target
for 18 months, last standing at 3.9 percent.  “The decision goes to show that shorter bonds are
overvalued,” Maciej Slomka, the head of fixed income at Ipopema
Securities SA, said by phone from Warsaw. “Further signals from
the central bank that it wasn’t just a one-off move and the
rates could go even higher may put more pressure on the short-
end.”  The bank’s Monetary Policy Council will hold a news
conference to explain its decision at 4 p.m.  The central bank’s policy panel warned last month that
rates may rise if  Poland ’s economy avoids the slowdown in the
euro region, its main export market. The European Union’s
second-biggest non-euro economy after Britain is seen expanding
2.5 percent this year, the most among the 27 EU nations,
according to forecasts from the European Commission.  ‘Aggressive Hawkishness’  “While Poland is not the most open economy in central and
eastern  Europe , we cannot exclude it from the negative economic
implications of further deterioration in core Europe,”  Roderick Ngotho , a London-based foreign exchange strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc, said in a note today. “As such, a hike
in the context of the current resurgence of EU woes smacks of
very aggressive hawkishness.”  The rate increase may spur short-term zloty appreciation
and should be used by investors to sell the currency as such a
decision would probably be a “policy mistake,” Morgan Stanley
wrote in a report yesterday. The zloty weakened 0.2 percent to
4.2209 against the euro, after initially strengthening following
the rate decision, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We doubt that a rate hike will be a game changer for the
zloty,” Mihail Bozinov and  James Lord , London-based strategists
at the bank wrote in the report. “We believe that any strength
that results from a surprise 25 basis-point hike will provide a
good opportunity to sell the currency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  