-- Polish Central Bank Unexpectedly Raises Interest Rates
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-05-09T16:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/polish-central-bank-unexpectedly-raises-interest-rates.html
Polish monetary-policy makers
unexpectedly raised  borrowing costs  as inflation continues to
exceed the central bank’s target and the European Union’s
biggest eastern economy slows less than they had forecast.  The Narodowy Bank Polski in Warsaw increased the benchmark
seven-day interest rate by a quarter-point to 4.75 percent, the
highest since January 2009, matching the forecast of nine of 31
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. Twenty-two economists
predicted no change. Polish bond yields rose to a three-week
high after the decision, while the zloty fell to its weakest
level since Feb. 16.  Interest rates rose for the first time since June 2011
after the inflation rate exceeded policy makers’ 2.5 percent
target for 18 months. The policy panel warned last month that
rates may rise if Poland avoids the slowdown in the euro region,
its main export market. The economy will expand 2.5 percent this
year, the fastest pace in the EU, according to the European
Commission.  “The primary motivation is to try and rebuild a bit of
credibility,”  Paul McNamara , who oversees $7 billion as  fund
manager  at GAM Investment, said by phone from  London  today. “If
you actually look at Polish data it’s quite hard to make a case
that Poland merits a hike. It’s more about NBP’s reputation than
it is about the data at the moment.”  Rate Bets  Traders increased bets on further rate increases following
the decision, with the  premium  on three-month interest-rate
forward contracts over the benchmark Warsaw interbank offered
rate rising to an 11-month high of 24 basis points, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Polish  inflation  slowed in March to 3.9 percent from 4.3
percent in February. The rate has exceeded the 3.5 percent upper
limit of the central bank’s tolerance range since last January,
which outweighed concern that monetary tightening would choke
growth, central bank Governor Marek Belka told a news conference
in Warsaw today.  “Inflation in  Poland  is persistently higher than we are
willing to tolerate,” Belka said. “We are treating this more
as a step toward normalizing than tightening monetary policy.
Although we are seeing slowdown, it is more moderate than we
expected.”  The  yield  on two-year  government bonds , which are more
sensitive to the interest-rate outlook, increased 3 basis points
to 4.73 percent, a three-week high, as of 6:42 p.m. in Warsaw,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Zloty Weakness  The zloty, which was little changed after the decision,
declined 0.7 percent to 4.2324 at 4:41 p.m. The zloty lost 3.6
percent against the euro in the past two months, the worst among
European emerging markets.  “Perhaps recent currency weakness swayed the MPC to be
more concerned over the potential pass through on inflation,”
Tim Ash, chief  emerging-markets  economist at  Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc  in London, wrote in an e-mail after the central
bank’s “surprising move.” If the increase doesn’t halt zloty
losses, “I doubt then that the NBP would really want to roll
out a series of hikes to defend the currency.”  The central bank has dropped the wording from its statement
that it will consider raising interest rates in the near future
to show that the chances for an increase in borrowing costs is
now smaller than it was a month ago, Belka told today’s news
conference.  ‘Containing the Risk’  Even so, policy makers didn’t rule out further rate
increases.  “The Council assessed that containing the risk of
inflation remaining above the target in the medium term requires
an increase of the NBP’s  interest rates ,” according to a
statement published today. “The incoming data will enable an
assessment on whether another adjustment of interest rates will
be justified.”  Policy makers across eastern  Europe  are weighing economic-
growth prospects against inflationary pressures amid the
continent’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Hungary  last month kept its  two-week deposit rate  at 7
percent for a fourth month.  Romania ’s central bank has cut the
 benchmark interest rate  four times since November to 5.25
percent while Czech policy makers have left the two-week
repurchase rate at a record-low 0.75 percent since May 2010.  ‘Stubbornly High’  Five of Poland’s last six economic indicators came in below
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg, with
industrial- output growth  slowing to 0.7 percent in March, the
lowest since October 2009, from 4.6 percent in February, data
from the Warsaw-based Central Statistics Office show. The April
Purchasing Managers’ index fell to 49.2 from 50.1 in March, with
a reading under 50 signaling a contraction of manufacturing from
a month earlier.  Supporting growth can’t “be an excuse for tolerating such
stubbornly high inflation,” central banker Andrzej Kazmierczak
said in an interview on April 30. Four rate increases in the
first half of last year by a combined 1 percentage point “have
already taken full effect,” he said.  “Tightening monetary policy wouldn’t curb corporate demand
for credit and would prevent second-round inflationary effects,
sending a strong signal on the council’s resolve to combat
inflation,” Kazmierczak said.  Gross domestic product, which grew 4.3 percent last year,
probably expanded about 3 percent in the first quarter, central
banker Elzbieta Chojna-Duch said in an interview on April 25.  “The hike should have limited impact on economic growth
and inflation, mainly caused by exogenous factors, but the main
argument was saving the credibility of the NBP’s inflation
target,”  Rafal Benecki , chief economist at ING Bank, said in a
note. “We don’t expect that this is a beginning of a series of
hikes. Conversely, we don’t exclude that the MPC may consider
rate cuts as growth should slow even more in second half of
2012.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  