-- Postal Service to Keep Rural Offices Open, Cut Hours
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-05-09T15:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/postal-service-to-keep-rural-offices-open-cut-hours.html
The U.S.  Postal Service , following
pressure from U.S. senators to keep rural post offices open,
said it plans to cut hours at as many as 13,000 locations to
save $500 million a year, rather than close the smallest ones.  The service, scheduled to announce its second-quarter
financial results tomorrow, will close “very few” post offices
in small communities, Chief Operating Officer Megan Brennan said
today at a press conference in  Washington .  “We took a step back and reconsidered whether there was a
way to preserve post offices in small communities and at the
same time accomplish cost-saving goals,” she said at the
service’s headquarters.  The Postal Service, which lost $3.3 billion in its first
quarter ended Dec. 31, said last year it planned to close as
many as 3,700, or 12 percent, of its post offices. The service
is trying to cut costs as mail volume falls by reducing its
workforce and asking Congress to relieve its mandate to pre-fund
retiree health benefits. It had about 650,000 employees at the
end of the year, the service said in a February filing.  Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe said today that keeping
rural post offices, 88 percent of which lose money according to
the service, will help the service bargain with Congress to
change the health-benefit mandate and get a refund of money the
service says it’s overpaid into a U.S. government-employee
retirement fund.  Part-Time Workers  Post office closings will no longer be part of the
service’s strategy for slowing annual losses forecasted to grow
to $18.2 billion by 2015, Donahoe said. Visits to post offices
have dropped 27 percent, or 350 million, since 2005, the service
said.  The service had expected $200 million in savings from post
office closings.  “In many of these locations, we will be substituting a
part-time employee for a full-time employee,” Brennan said.  The service’s self-imposed moratorium on closing post
offices and mail-processing plants lifts May 15. The service
will announce its plans for mail-processing plants on May 17,
Donahoe said.  Senators including  Scott Brown , a Massachusetts Republican,
and Tom Carper, a Delaware Democrat, asked the service in an
April 30 letter to extend the moratorium, saying reducing
infrastructure wouldn’t help right the agency’s finances.  The service won’t extend the processing-plant closing
moratorium, Donahoe told reporters after the press conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  