-- Putin Tells U.S. He Won’t Be at G-8 Summit, White House Says
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-05-09T23:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/putin-tells-u-s-he-won-t-be-at-g-8-summit-white-house-says-1-.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin  told
the U.S. today he won’t attend the Group of Eight summit being
hosted this month by President  Barack Obama  and is sending Prime
Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  instead, the White House said.  Putin told Obama in a telephone call that he needed to make
cabinet decisions concerning the new Russian government and
would miss the May 18-19 gathering, the White House statement
said. Putin and Obama will hold a separate meeting at the Group
of 20 summit next month in Los Cabos,  Mexico .  Obama and Putin discussed “the concrete achievements of
the last three years and expressed their commitment to enhance
bilateral cooperation on the basis of mutual strategic
interests,” according to the statement.  The G-8 meeting at the presidential retreat in rural
 Maryland  would have been Putin’s first foreign trip since his
inauguration for a third six-year term as president on May 7.  Putin has been critical of the U.S. on economic and
security matters as he campaigned for election in a vote that
opposition parties said was rigged in his favor. He nominated
Medvedev, his immediate predecessor in the presidency, as prime
minister.  While the administration vowed to work with the newly
elected Russian government, the U.S. is “troubled” by reports
of violence in Moscow in the wake of the election, Mark Toner, a
spokesman for the State Department, said yesterday.  The White House statement said Obama and Putin will
continue to work on issues such as nuclear security and non-
proliferation that are part of the Obama administration’s so-
called “re-set” of relations between the two nations.  Putin, who first rose to power in 1999, has sought to
restore Russian prestige after the collapse of communism in
1991.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joe Sobczyk at 
 jsobczyk@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  