-- Quest Received Multiple Buyout Proposals During Shop Period
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-05-09T20:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/quest-received-multiple-buyout-proposals-during-shop-period-1-.html
Quest Software Inc. (QSFT) , which agreed in
March to be bought by private-equity firm Insight Venture
Partners for about $2 billion, said it received several other
offers during a so-called “go-shop” period.  Many of the options are “reasonably expected to lead to a
superior proposal,” the  Aliso Viejo , California-based company
said today in a statement. Quest said it may continue
discussions with other bidders, though it “has not yet
determined that any of the alternative proposals constitute a
superior proposal under the merger agreement.”  Quest, a provider of  business software  for managing and
protecting data, said on March 9 it had agreed to be acquired by
Insight for $23 a share. The stock has surged 18 percent since
the agreement was announced, suggesting that investors
anticipate a higher bid.  “They now appear very likely to take a superior offer,”
said Brian Freed, an analyst at Wunderlich Securities in Denver,
who has a hold rating on the shares. “It either means someone
else makes a bid superior to Insight, or Insight moves up its
bid.”  The  shares  jumped 10 percent to $25.17 at the close in New
York, the biggest increase since the Insight deal announcement.
The stock has gained 35 percent this year.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. has said Quest is worth about $28,
based on the software provider’s sales and cash flow, and could
attract bids from International Business Machines Corp.,  Dell
Inc. (DELL)  or private-equity firms.  Higher Offers  Tracy Benelli, a spokeswoman at Quest, and Erica Harris, an
Insight spokeswoman, didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Doug Shelton , a spokesman for IBM, and  David Frink , a spokesman for
Dell, declined to comment on speculation.  Insight is likely to raise its bid, though it may be hard
for a financial buyer to match an offer from a strategic
purchaser, Freed said. Quest could be sold for about $26 a
share, he said.  “If a new buyer is someone already in the software
business who could garner operating leverage, they could always
pay significantly more and yield a return,” Freed said.  Quest agreed to pay Insight $6.3 million if it finds
another buyer after the end of the go-shop period, which has now
expired.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  