-- Rand Slumps to Month-Low as Metal Prices Drop on Greek Impasse
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-05-09T14:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/rand-falls-for-second-day-as-metals-drop-on-greek-default-worry.html
The rand fell to its lowest in almost
a month and yields rose as metal prices slumped after political
tension in  Greece  fuelled concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis may
worsen, dimming the demand outlook for commodities.  South Africa ’s currency retreated as much as 1.9 percent to
8.0447 per dollar, the weakest level since April 11. It traded
1.6 percent down at 8.0152 as of 3:54 p.m. in Johannesburg. The
yield on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 climbed five
basis points to 7.74 percent, the highest on a closing basis
since April 16.  The mandate to form a government in Greece rests with the
Syriza party, which has vowed to rip up the terms of the
nation’s bailout. Syriza leader Alexis Tsipras told pro-bailout
counterparts they must renounce support for the European Union-
led rescue if there is to be any chance of forging a coalition
administration. The euro slumped for an eighth session against
the dollar.  “Risk markets are under pressure, whilst those markets
dependent on global growth such as the commodity markets are
also coming for correction,” George Glynos, an economist at
Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments
today. “For the rand this has translated into a sell-off.”  Copper fell for a second day in  London  and platinum dropped
to its lowest since January. The Standard & Poor’s  GSCI index  of
commodities fell 0.7 percent, a sixth day of losses and set for
the lowest close this year.  Metals and other commodities make up 45 percent of South
Africa’s exports, according to government data. The euro area
accounted for 22 percent of South Africa’s exports last year.  ‘European Debacle’  “The European debacle remains the market’s focus,”  John Cairns  and Josina Solomons, currency strategists at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in an e-mailed comment.
“All markets have been smacked by Europe, but none more so than
commodities.”  The rand’s three-month implied volatility against the
dollar rose to 15.25 percent today, from 14.25 percent yesterday
and as low as 13.95 percent a week ago, indicating options
traders see wider price swings in coming months.  The cost of insuring South Africa’s dollar-denominated
sovereign debt against default climbed to 160.5 basis points,
from 154.3 yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  