-- Treasuries Up on Greece, U.S. May Sell Notes at Record
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-05-09T15:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/treasuries-rise-as-asian-stocks-fall-gross-warns-on-qe3.html
Treasury 10-year note yields fell
below 1.8 percent for the first time since February as Greek
politicians struggled to form a government, adding to concern
that  Europe ’s financial turmoil is deepening and boosting demand
for the safest securities.  Ten- and 30-year yields dropped to the lowest levels in
three months before the U.S. sells $24 billion of the benchmark
notes, on track for a record low yield.  Bill Gross  at Pacific
Investment Management Co. and  Jan Hatzius  at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. said investors should prepare for additional bond purchases
by the  Federal Reserve  to combat a slowing economy.  “The fear that is out there due to the situation in Europe
is pretty strong,” said Jason Rogan, managing director of U.S.
government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based
brokerage for institutional investors. “We don’t know the end
situation in  Greece . Because of the fears, the auction will go
well. There are a lot of people out there who are nervous and
are looking to own Treasuries here, even at 1.8 percent.”  The 10-year  yield  fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.81 percent at 10:09 a.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent note
maturing in February 2022 rose 9/32, or $2.81 per $1,000 face
amount, to 101 22/32. The yield touched 1.79 percent, the lowest
level since Jan. 31.  Thirty-year bond yields declined two basis points to 3.01
percent, reaching the lowest since Feb. 2.  Greek Stalemate  A stand-off between Greek politicians since inconclusive
elections on May 6 has reignited concern the nation will be
unable to meet the terms of the two bailouts it has negotiated
since May 2010. With parliament split, the country at the center
of the debt crisis is again facing the risk of leaving the euro.  Spanish  10-year bond  yields rose above 6 percent today for
the first time since April 27, and  Italy ’s securities declined
as the turmoil infected the region’s larger nations.  German 10-year bund yields dropped below 1.50 percent for
the first time since Bloomberg began collecting the data in
1989. The yield slid as much as four basis points to 1.498
percent.  The two-year swap spread, an indicator of risk in the
financial system, rose two basis points to 33.83 basis points,
the widest spread since January.  Game Changer  “The last two days give the appearance of being more of a
fundamental move to recognize the tangible reality of systemic
risk -- not just fear or uncertainty things might deteriorate,”
 Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at FTN Financial in
 Memphis ,  Tennessee , wrote in a client note.  Valuation measures show Treasuries are near the most
expensive levels ever. The term premium, a model created by
economists at the Fed, touched negative 0.78 percent, close to
the most expensive level ever of 0.79 percent reached on Feb. 2.
A negative reading indicates investors are willing to accept
yields below what’s considered fair value.  A Fed decision to buy more bonds is “getting closer,”
Pimco’s Gross, who runs the world’s largest mutual  fund  in
 Newport Beach ,  California , wrote on Twitter yesterday.  The U.S. central bank bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two
rounds of so-called quantitative easing, known as QE1 and QE2,
from 2008 to 2011 to support the economy. A Labor Department
report May 4 showed U.S. employers added 115,000 jobs in April,
the least in six months.  ‘Sensible Choice’  The  U.S. economy  is “dreary,” Goldman’s Hatzius wrote in
a report yesterday.  “In such an uncertain environment, taking out a bit more
insurance still looks like the sensible choice for U.S. monetary
policy makers,” New York-based Hatzius wrote.  The Fed is replacing $400 billion of short-term Treasuries
in its holdings with longer-term debt to keep borrowing costs
down. The central bank plans to buy as much as $1.5 billion of
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities today as part of the
plan, targeting securities due from July 2018 to February 2042,
according to the Fed Bank of  New York ’s  website .  The 10-year notes on sale today yielded 1.84 percent in
pre-auction trading, compared with 2.043 percent the previous
time the government sold the securities on April 11. The record
low of 1.90 percent was set in January’s sale.  “The never-ending euro-zone crisis and the global duration
grab that it has triggered has pushed U.S. 10-year yields to
levels” that may lead to a record-low rate at the auction,
 George Goncalves , a strategist at Nomura Securities
International Inc. in New York, wrote in a report yesterday.  Bid Detail  Demand increased at an auction of three-year debt
yesterday. Investors bid for 3.65 times the number of securities
on offer at yesterday’s auction. The notes drew a yield of 0.362
percent, compared with a forecast of 0.365 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey before the sale.  The U.S. is scheduled to auction $16 billion of 30-year
bonds tomorrow. The sales will raise $35.3 billion of new cash
as maturing securities held by the public total $36.7 billion,
according to the  U.S. Treasury .  Treasuries have returned 0.6 percent this year, including
reinvested interest, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.
They gained 9.8 percent in 2011 as the European financial
turmoil deepened.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  