-- U.S. 10-Year Notes Sell at Record Low Auction Yield
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-05-09T21:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/treasuries-remain-higher-as-10-year-sells-at-record-low.html
The Treasury sold $24 billion of 10-
year notes at a record low auction yield as Greek politicians
struggled to form a government, boosting demand for the safest
assets.  The  securities  were sold at a yield of 1.855 percent, lower
than the previous record 1.9 percent in January.  U.S. debt 
erased gains after officials said Europe’s bailout fund will pay
the next installment of aid to  Greece . U.S. 30-year bond yields
erased declines as the U.S. prepared to sell $16 billion of the
security tomorrow.  “It is difficult to sell off against the broader bullish
underpinning as European uncertainty continues,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We look to be at the bottom of the
yield range, as the market is trying to get ready for more
supply.”  The  yield  on the current 10-year note fell one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.82 percent, at 5 p.m. in  New
York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
note maturing in February 2022 traded at 101 18/32. The yield
touched 1.79 percent, the lowest level since Jan. 31.  Thirty-year bond yields were little changed at 3.03
percent, after reaching the lowest since Feb. 2.  Sale Detail  The record low 10-year auction yield compared with a
forecast of 1.853 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of seven of
the  Federal Reserve ’s 21 primary dealers. The bid-to-cover
ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the
amount of securities offered, was 2.90, the least since November
and compared with an average of 3.11 for the previous 10 sales.  “The auction was an average auction, but overall it was
pretty well, given the yield levels,” said Thomas Simons, a
government debt economist in New York at Jefferies Group Inc., a
primary dealer. “Concern in  Europe  is still adding uncertainty
to the market, and risk for global growth tilting to the
downside and as such there is still demand for Treasuries,
despite these low yields levels.”  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 38.7 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 41.9 percent for the past 10 sales.  Direct bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 15.9 percent of
the notes, compared with an average of 14.5 percent at the last
10 auctions.  Bond Auction  The U.S. sold $32 billion of three-year notes yesterday at
a yield of 0.365 percent. This week’s sales will raise $35.3
billion of new cash as maturing securities held by the public
total $36.7 billion, according to the  U.S. Treasury .  Treasuries have returned 0.6 percent this year, including
reinvested interest, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.
They gained 9.8 percent in 2011 as the European financial
turmoil deepened.  Greece’s political turmoil looks set to enter a fourth day
with coalition talks deadlocked, raising the possibility that
another election will have to be held as early as next month.  Evangelos Venizelos , the socialist Pasok leader and former
finance minister, said he’ll try to form a government when he
receives a three-day mandate from President Karolos Papoulias
tomorrow. Pasok rejected terms for a government set by Alexis
Tsipras of Greece’s anti-bailout Syriza party which then gave up
its bid to build a coalition.  Europe’s Debt  Spanish  10-year bond  yields rose above 6 percent today for
the first time since April 27, and  Italy ’s securities declined
as the turmoil infected the region’s larger nations.  German 10-year bund yields dropped below 1.50 percent for
the first time since Bloomberg began collecting the data in
1989. The yield slid as much as four basis points to 1.497
percent.  The two-year swap spread, an indicator of risk in the
financial system, rose two basis points to 33.83 basis points,
the widest spread since January.  “The last two days give the appearance of being more of a
fundamental move to recognize the tangible reality of systemic
risk -- not just fear or uncertainty things might deteriorate,”
 Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at FTN Financial in
 Memphis ,  Tennessee , wrote in a client note.  Valuation measures show Treasuries are near the most
expensive levels ever. The term premium, a model created by
economists at the Fed, touched negative 0.78 percent, close to
the most expensive level ever of 0.79 percent reached on Feb. 2.
A negative reading indicates investors are willing to accept
yields below what’s considered fair value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  