-- Riley Paterson Shuts Only Hedge Fund After Assets Slide
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-05-09T01:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/riley-paterson-shuts-only-hedge-fund-after-assets-slide.html
Riley Paterson Investment Management
Pte, which generated a 21 percent return in the global
industry’s worst year, decided to shut its only hedge fund
because assets are expected to decline to a 10th of its peak.  “Assets under management looked as though they were going 
to $30 million by June this year as we fell below institutional
size,” Singapore-based Co-founder Daren Riley said in an e-
mailed reply to Bloomberg today. “We feel it’s better to return
the money to investors than being forced to cut resources
employed below the high standard all our investors deserve.”  Riley Paterson Asian Opportunities Fund’s assets fell to
$47.9 million by the end of March, after  peaking  at $335 million
at the end of January 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and confirmed by Riley. He added that it became
difficult to raise money in a “ bear market  or if you have
bearish views.”  An estimated 775 hedge funds closed down last year, 4
percent more than 2010 as institutional investors directed most
of the new capital toward the largest managers, according to
Chicago-based data provider  Hedge Fund Research Inc .  Investors added $18.3 billion of new capital to managers
with at least $5 billion of assets in the first quarter,
according to HFR data. Smaller managers with assets below that
threshold suffered a combined outflow of nearly $2 billion.  Betting on Stocks  Riley Paterson was co-founded by Stewart Paterson, a former
chief Asia equity strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG, and
Riley, a former head of equity sales in  Asia  outside of  Japan  at
ING Groep NV.  The fund, set up about four months before Asian stocks
peaked in 2007, returned 21 percent the following year, the
second-highest return among equity long-short funds focused on
non-Japan Asia, according to Singapore-based Eurekahedge Pte.  The HFRI Fund-Weighted Composite Index dropped 19 percent
in 2008 as the global financial crisis plunged global hedge
funds into their worst annual return since Chicago-based Hedge
Fund Research Inc. started to track data in 1990.  Riley Paterson stopped accepting money from new investors
into the fund in January 2010 after assets swelled beyond the
$300 million it targeted when it was started, Riley said.  The Riley Paterson fund advanced 14 percent in 2009 and 8
percent last year. Its only losing year was 2010 when net assets
value dropped 7 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Riley Paterson is focused on ensuring every investor has
all their money back, Riley said in the e-mail. Only after
completing the process will the team consider future plans, he
added.  “Asian equities are below levels we started the fund at
almost five years ago,” Riley said, whose firm analyzed
macroeconomic cycles before wagering on the market. “We believe
the strategy we have been running, perhaps with greater ability
to hedge external global risks, is one we continue to believe in
and, with stronger long-term commitments from institutions,
could be launched in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  