-- Risk of Unprotected Sex Debated in Gilead HIV Pill Review
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-05-09T20:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/risk-of-unprotected-sex-debated-in-gilead-hiv-pill-review.html
Healthy people can protect themselves
from the deadly HIV virus if they take  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s
Truvada every day. Whether patients will is an issue dividing
AIDS advocates as U.S. regulators weigh approving the pill as
the first preventative measure against the disease.  Truvada is safe and effective enough as a preventative
medicine, Food and Drug Administration staff concluded in a
report yesterday. An advisory panel recommendation for approval,
set for debate tomorrow, hinges on who would get the pill and
whether patients can be educated on the importance of following
through with a prescription.  Doctors say the idea is to get healthy individuals in
certain high-risk groups to take a $14,000-a-year pill every day
to reduce the estimated 48,000 new U.S. cases of HIV each year.
Some advocates say such a medicine to prevent the virus that can
be avoided with condoms may encourage unprotected sex and
increase infections.  “That’s an issue many of us have talked about for years,”
said  Mitchell Warren , executive director of  AVAC: Global
Advocacy for HIV Prevention . “If you have this new option,
would you be riskier? There is no evidence to show that that
might be the case, but that doesn’t mean it’s not a concern.”  Truvada can reduce the risk of HIV as much as 94 percent
for people who took the pill regularly, according to a study
cited by the FDA. In other trials, only 10 percent of
participants took the medicine as prescribed, and one study was
halted after no benefit was gained.  Taking Their Medicine  “Among our own patients who are HIV positive, we have
difficulty getting them to adhere, let alone people who don’t
have the disease,” said  Michael Weinstein , president of the Los
Angeles-based AIDS Healthcare Foundation, which provides medical
care for 130,000 people worldwide. “Counting on adherence is
not going to work.”  Another concern, Weinstein said, is that having a
preventative pill will lead to a reduction in condom use among
at-risk people. Resistance to the drug, “already a serious
problem,” may increase if the pill is used as a preventative,
according to a September  editorial  in the journal Lancet. A
further issue is how the drug would be distributed.  “A shortfall exists in access to antiretroviral drugs for
populations in need of treatment to prolong their lives,”
according to the Lancet. “In the face of the current global
economic situation, how can these drugs be provided as
prevention to those high-risk populations, while people with the
disease in need of treatment continue to go without?”  High-Risk Groups  The pill would be aimed at an estimated 415,000 Americans
who are among those at  high risk  for contracting HIV, the Human
Immunodeficiency Virus that leads to AIDS, from sexual activity,
according to the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. These include people whose spouses or partners have
the disease, as well as gay men who had more than two partners
in the past year and didn’t wear condoms during sex. The number
of people infected with HIV rose to 34 million worldwide in
2009.  Gilead, based in  Foster City ,  California , will work with
health agencies on public demonstration projects to further the
drug’s use if approved, Howard Jaffe, president and chairman of
the Gilead Foundation, said in an interview.  “If deployed correctly and efficiently, it could make a
big dent in the epidemic in the U.S.,” Jaffe said. “Against
the backdrop of no vaccine on the horizon, I think that there’s
a strong case to be made for it.”  Gilead rose 2.4 percent to $50.64 at the close of New York
trading. The stock has gained 23 percent in the past 12 months.  Expand Research  Getting approval as pre-exposure prophylaxis, or PrEP,
would allow researchers to expand the number of patients on the
medicine and further educate at-risk populations, James Loduca,
a spokesman for the  San Francisco  AIDS Foundation, said in an
interview. Part of that process would involve focusing on
certain people during particular times in their lives, he said.  “We don’t think PrEP is a lifetime prevention tool,”
Loduca said. “It would be used in a targeted way for specific
populations and in relatively short periods of time.”  Scott Owens, a hair dresser in  Boston , was part of a study
testing Truvada as a preventative medicine, and would
“absolutely” recommend it to others. Still, he is worried that
the medicine will give a false sense of security and increase
risky behavior.  “The young people I talk to, they know there are these
drugs now that work really good and they act like it is no big
deal,” Owens, 47, said in an interview. “I feel like we are
all at risk, no one is 100 percent safe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  