-- Clemens Prosecutors Ask Judge to Keep Pettitte Testimony
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-09T13:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/roger-clemens-prosecutors-ask-judge-to-keep-pettitte-testimony.html
Prosecutors in the perjury case
against  Roger Clemens , the ex-New York Yankees pitcher accused
of lying to Congress, asked a judge to allow jurors to consider
testimony from  Andy Pettitte  about his former teammate’s
purported use of human growth hormone.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Durham, in a filing today in
federal court in  Washington , said Pettitte’s inconsistent
testimony during cross-examination by Clemens’s lawyers should
not disqualify his statements from being considered by the jury.  “This jury must be permitted -- if it desires -- to fully
credit Mr. Pettitte’s direct-examination testimony and discount
any cross-examination inconsistencies,” Durham said.  Clemens asked U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  to throw
out some of Pettitte’s testimony because it “is not definitive
enough to qualify to be an admissible statement.”  Under questioning May 2, Pettitte said it was possible he
misunderstood Clemens in a conversation about use of HGH during
a workout more than a decade ago. Pettitte agreed under cross-
examination that there was a 50 percent chance he didn’t
understand what Clemens had told him.  “The court should not allow the jury to consider an
alleged ‘admission’ that has all the weight of a coin flip,”
Clemens’s lawyers said in a May 7 filing.  Clemens, 49, is charged with one count of obstructing a
congressional investigation, three counts of making false
statements and two counts of perjury. He faces as long as 21
months in prison if convicted.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  