-- Romania Agrees With Bailout Lenders on Increasing Budget Gap
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-05-09T13:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/romania-agrees-with-bailout-lenders-on-increasing-budget-gap-2-.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
completed a review of  Romania ’s loan accord and agreed to let
the country widen its  budget deficit  to accommodate a public-
sector wage increase after a third government took office this
year.  The IMF and Romania reached a staff-level agreement to
unlock about 475 million euros ($616 million) from its 3.6
billion-euro precautionary loan, Mission Chief  Jeffrey Franks 
said in Bucharest today. The IMF also agreed to let Romania
increase its budget-gap target to 2.2 percent of economic output
from 1.9 percent.  “Romania met almost all the targets under the accord
except for two of them referring to some unpaid debt to private
companies,” Franks said. “There are still difficulties in
restoring the economic growth because of the international
crisis and the risks remain high.”  The IMF and the European Union’s fiscal flexibility toward
Romania comes at a time when more European leaders are pushing
for pro-growth policies after  France ’s first power shift to a
socialist president since 1981 and  Greece ’s electoral rebellion
against austerity busted the budget-cutting consensus that has
dominated the response to the sovereign-debt crisis.  Governments Fell  Romania, which secured the loan from the IMF and the EU
last year as a safeguard against the European sovereign-debt
crisis, changed governments twice this year amid protests
against austerity measures. Former Prime Minister Emil Boc
resigned on March 6 and his successor Mihai-Razvan Ungureanu
lost a no-confidence vote in Parliament on April 27, three days
after the IMF review began, delaying its completion by two days.  The Social-Democrat Victor Ponta was appointed as Prime
Minister on May 7. His new government signed a letter of intent
needed to complete the lenders’ review yesterday and agreed on
an 8 percent increase of public wages on June 1, followed by
another raise in December to reverse a 25 percent cut in 2010.
The Cabinet is also seeking to pay back some social
contributions to pensioners.  The IMF warned Ponta’s government to keep a cap on spending
before elections this year after the state’s arrears started to
increase “probably because of pre-electoral pressures,” Franks
said.  The Romanian leu, which slid to a record intraday low of
4.4620 on May 1 after Ungureanu’s government collapsed, weakened
0.3 percent and traded at 4.4202 against the euro at 2:20 p.m.
in Bucharest trading.  Easing Monetary Policy  The country’s central bank may have “small” room to
further ease  monetary policy  this year after the government fell
and the debt crisis prompted policy makers to take a pause,
Franks said in an interview in Bucharest today. He also said
that the inflation rate, which fell to a record low of 2.4
percent in March, will remain within the central bank’s targeted
band of between 2 percent and 4 percent.  “So far we don’t see negative effects on inflationary
expectations, on the  exchange rate , yes, it’s weakened a bit but
not significantly, so there’s no compelling reason for a
tightening of the monetary stance at this point,” Franks said.
“There may be a small additional space for monetary easing, but
not much.”  Romania’s economy will expand 1.5 percent this year as
exports to western  Europe , the country’s major trading partner,
are slowing amid the sovereign-debt crisis, Franks said.  Technical Recession  Romania may enter a technical recession as the economy may
post a “minor” quarterly contraction in the first quarter,
central bank Deputy Governor Cristian Popa said yesterday.  The Balkan country’s  Finance Ministry  will continue
borrowing money from domestic and international markets “on an
opportunistic basis” under a 7 billion-euro medium-term note
program, Franks said.  Romania should wait with a plan to sell stakes in energy
companies on both internal and international markets as
announced by the new Economy Minister Daniel Chitoiu as it will
slow the sales timetable already agreed with the lenders, Franks
said.  The country pledged to sell 15 percent stakes in natural-
gas company Romgaz SA and  Transgaz SA (TGN)  and 10 percent stakes in
hydro-power operator Hidroelectrica SA and nuclear-power
generator Nuclearelectrica SA this year on the Bucharest Stock
Exchange.  Transgaz, Romgaz  “While in principle that might be an interesting option,
at this stage it would be technically much more complicated and
it might slow down the process, so I would be much more in favor
of pushing ahead the plan that we already have,” Franks said.
“Additional international listings can be considered
afterwards.”  The Transgaz and Romgaz stake sales will probably be the
next, according to Franks.  Romania and its international lenders also agreed on a
schedule to fully lift price controls of natural gas for
companies starting this year and for households starting the
second half of next year until the end of 2018, Franks said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  