-- Romney Says Obama Takes Undue Credit for Oil-Output Gains
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-05-09T21:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/romney-says-obama-taking-unfair-credit-for-oil-production-gains.html
Mitt Romney, campaigning amid oil rigs
dotting the landscape in Colorado, said President  Barack Obama ’s
policies have hurt U.S. energy output and that regulation of
hydraulic fracturing for natural gas should be left to states.  “The president tries to take credit for the fact that oil
production is up,” the former Massachusetts governor and
presumptive Republican presidential nominee told supporters
against the backdrop of an oil rig outside Fort Lupton.  “I’d like to take credit for the fact that when I was
governor, the  Red Sox  won the  World Series ,” he said, referring
to the team’s 2004 title. “But neither one of those would be
the case. It was not the president’s policies that led to oil
production being up.”  Romney said that while oil and gas industry employment has
grown during Obama’s presidency, wind-energy jobs have declined.
He also criticized Obama’s January decision to reject a
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  proposal to build an oil pipeline through
environmentally sensitive parts of  Nebraska .  “We have energy resources in this country and we have to
take advantage of them,” Romney said, adding that he would push
for more oil drilling along the U.S. coastline. He said
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, should be “regulated at the
state level.”  Obama Campaign Response  An Obama campaign spokeswoman defended the president’s
record. “President Obama has aggressively pursued an all-of-
the-above energy strategy,” Lis Smith said in a statement. He
helped “expand domestic oil production, incentivize research
and development for clean coal, nearly double the production of
renewable energy, and encourage natural gas production.”  Smith also chided Romney for holding a fundraiser later
today in Oklahoma at the home of an oil executive who also
advises the Republican on energy issues -- Harold Hamm, chairman
and chief executive officer of Oklahoma City-based Continental
Resources Inc.  “On the same day he’s raising money at the home of a
billionaire oil executive and campaign adviser who has supported
measures to drive up energy prices,  Mitt Romney  will have to
explain why he supports a laundry list of big oil’s demands,”
Smith said in a statement.  Falling Gasoline Prices  Complicating Romney’s line of attack on energy is the
recent decline in gasoline prices, reducing the issue’s
political punch.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged
nationwide, fell 1.3 cents to $3.75 a gallon yesterday,
according to AAA. Prices are down 18.6 cents since reaching a
2012 high of $3.936 on April 4.  Asked about Obama’s endorsement today of same-sex marriage,
Romney reaffirmed his opposition to it.  “I have the same view on marriage that I had when I was
governor and that I’ve expressed many times; I believe marriage
is a relationship between a man and a woman,” he told reporters
gathered before a campaign event in  Oklahoma City .  He also called the issue “a very tender and sensitive
topic, as are many topics.”  Decisions on various domestic partnership benefits, like
hospital visitation rights, should be determined by the states,
he said. Campaign officials didn’t specify which benefits Romney
would support.  Romney’s earlier appearance in Colorado came a day after he
won primary victories in  Indiana ,  North Carolina  and  West
Virginia  that moved him closer to officially clinching his
party’s nomination.  He now has more than 900 of the 1,144 delegates needed for
the nomination, according to the  Associated Press .  Fight for Colorado  Though Obama carried Colorado on his way to winning the
presidency in 2008, winning 54 percent of the vote, the state
remains in play for both parties. Romney is seeking to blunt the
push in the state from Democrats, who held their national
convention in Denver four years ago and have courted Colorado’s
growing Hispanic population.  With the nation’s fifth-fastest-population  growth  from
2010-11, Colorado needs to create a steady stream of jobs just
to stay even with the influx of workers. Its largest employers
include  Molson Coors Brewing Co. (TAP) , which has a headquarters in
Denver.  Colorado’s  jobless rate  in March was 7.8 percent, below the
current national average of 8.1 percent and down from 9 percent
in November 2010. It is still above the 6.6 percent recorded in
January 2009, the month Obama took office.  How to deal with illegal immigrants is a pressing issue in
the state. Hispanics in 2010 accounted for 21 percent of the
population, according to the  Census Bureau .  The most recent nationwide Gallup daily  tracking poll ,
completed May 7, shows Romney with 47 percent support and Obama
backed by 44 percent. The margin of error is plus or minus 3
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Fort Lupton,  Colorado , at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  