-- Rubber Drops as Greek Political Impasse Stokes Crisis in Europe
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-05-09T07:45:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/rubber-drops-most-in-6-months-as-european-woes-threaten-recovery.html
Rubber slumped by the most in more
than four months as political turmoil in Greece deepened
concerns  Europe ’s debt crisis may worsen, threatening the global
recovery and sapping investor appetite for commodities.  October-delivery rubber lost 4 percent to end at 292.3 yen
a kilogram ($3,662 a metric ton), the lowest settlement level on
the  Tokyo  Commodity Exchange for the most-active contract since
Jan. 17. The day’s drop was the worst since Dec. 15.  Speculation grew that Greece’s new government, when it’s
formed, will reject terms of its rescue after as New Democracy
leader Antonis Samaras failed to assemble a coalition following
weekend elections, passing the opportunity to Alexis Tsipras’s
Syriza party. Tsipras said he plans to form a government of
left-wing parties that would cancel the bailout accords.  “Political turmoil in  Greece  raised concerns that the
nation may not implement austerity measures and worsen Europe’s
debt crisis,” Ken Kajisa, an analyst at broker ACE Koeki Co. in
Tokyo, said by phone. “Risk aversion by investors increased,
leading to sales of industrial commodities including rubber.”  Futures also fell as oil traded near the lowest level in
three months in  New York , cutting the appeal of natural rubber
as an alternative to synthetic products. A report yesterday
showed stockpiles rose the most since March in the U.S.  September-delivery rubber in Shanghai lost 2.3 percent to
close at 26,100  yuan  ($4,136) a ton, the lowest close since Jan.
16.  Thai rubber  on a free-on-board basis fell 1.2 percent to
119.50 baht ($3.85) a kilogram yesterday, according to the
Rubber Research Institute of  Thailand . Rains spread across 80
percent of Thailand’s southern provinces, disrupting tapping, it
said. The market is closed today for a holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jarrett Banks at 
 jbanks15@bloomberg.net  