-- Russia to Refrain From Rate Cuts to Safeguard Inflation
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-05-09T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/russia-to-refrain-from-rate-cuts-to-safeguard-inflation.html
Russia’s central bank will probably
refrain from cutting interest rates for a fifth month, signaling
determination to hold inflation at a record low.  Bank Rossii will leave the  refinancing rate  at 8 percent
when it meets today, according to all 15 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The overnight auction-based repurchase
rate will stay at 5.25 percent and the overnight deposit rate
will remain at 4 percent, two separate surveys showed.  “The market needs to get used to higher interest rates for
the coming years, even though it may negatively affect economic
growth in the short term,” said Aurelija Augulyte, an emerging-
market economist at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in Copenhagen. “We are
simply not coming back to pre-crisis boom rates of credit growth
-- and that’s a political choice.”  The world’s largest energy exporter cut inflation below
Italy’s rate for the first time in March and reduced it further
last month as some food prices fell.  Vladimir Putin , sworn in
for his third term as president on May 7, battled  price growth 
growth during his first eight years in the Kremlin after the
rate peaked at 127 percent in July 1999.  The central bank predicts lending growth of 20 percent to
25 percent this year. That compares with 2008’s 34 percent
increase in corporate loans and a 35 percent rise in credits to
households.  Investors switched to betting on  interest-rate  increases on
April 27 for the first time in almost five months, according to
forward-rate agreements tracked by Bloomberg. The contracts show
borrowing costs may rise 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, over the next three months, compared with expectations of
as much as 31 basis points of cuts on Feb. 7.  Ruble Drops  The ruble has depreciated 1.2 percent against the dollar
this quarter, falling to the lowest closing level since Feb. 21
on May 5 and heading for its first quarterly loss versus the
greenback since Sept. 30. The Turkish lira was little changed
against the dollar over the same period. A weaker ruble may fan
inflation by making imports more expensive.  The inflation rate was 3.6 percent in April, down from 3.7
percent in the two preceding months, as falling grain and
produce costs slowed food inflation. That compares with 3.8
percent in  Italy  in March and 3.5 percent in the U.K.  Consumer prices would be rising by about 6 percent in
annual terms without the effects of a strong harvest and delayed
utility-price increases, Bank Rossii Chairman Sergey Ignatiev
said last month. Putin capped fuel costs and postponed tariff
increases before the March 4 presidential vote.  Biggest Threats  Inflation and poverty are considered the biggest threats
facing the country this year, according to a poll by the
independent  Levada Center .  Dmitry Medvedev , who was approved by lawmakers as Putin’s
prime minister’s on May 8, in his confirmation hearing urged
caution in raising tariffs and called for more competition in
the economy to help bring the inflation rate in 2012 below last
year’s record-low level of 6.1 percent.  Policy makers across eastern  Europe  are weighing economic-
growth prospects against inflationary pressures amid the euro
area’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Poland  yesterday unexpectedly raised its benchmark interest
rate to 4.75 percent from 4.5 percent, the highest since January
2009.  Hungary  last month kept its two-week deposit rate at 7
percent for a fourth month.  Romania ’s central bank has cut the
benchmark interest rate four times since November to 5.25 while
Czech policy makers have left the two-week repurchase rate at a
record-low 0.75 percent since May 2010.  ‘Won’t Be Easy’  Russian interest rates will be on hold for the next few
months, central bank First Deputy Chairman Alexey Ulyukayev said
in  New York  last month. Policy makers have said market rates are
acceptable for the “coming months” after every monetary-policy
meeting since February.  Bank Rossii plans to hold inflation between 5 percent and 6
percent this year and keep it to no more than 5 percent by 2014.
Meeting this year’s target “won’t be very easy,” Ignatiev said
last month.  Policy makers are too focused on combating inflation as
“global headwinds” are starting to impact  Russia ’s growth,
according to  Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist for Russia at
Moscow-based  Renaissance Capital . Producers and retailers lack
confidence in the economy’s prospects, leaving them reluctant to
increase prices because it may cost them market share, he wrote
in a May 4 research note.  “This policy stance of the central bank is only providing
an additional burden that the economy needs to deal with,”
Tchakarov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  