-- TSA Idled $184 Million in Screening Equipment, U.S. Says
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-05-09T16:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/tsa-idled-184-million-in-screening-equipment-u-s-says.html
The U.S.  Transportation Security
Administration  bought $184 million in screening equipment it
stored in warehouses and tried to prevent Congress from learning
how many machines were there, a congressional report found.  The agency spent $3.5 million a year to lease and manage a
warehouse for 5,700 pieces of unused equipment, according to the
report released today by the House transportation and oversight
committees.  Congress, through hearings, is questioning whether the
TSA’s management is too focused on screening every airline
passenger the same way, instead of developing intelligence to
catch terrorists. Representative  John Mica , the House
transportation chairman, wants the agency to turn over the
airport-screening process to private companies.  “Systemic flaws continue to plague the TSA,” California
Republican Representative  Darrell Issa , the oversight committee
chairman, said in a statement prepared for the hearing. “These
flaws are exacerbated by a management structure that seems
content to throw millions of dollars at untested solutions.”  The panels are holding a joint hearing on TSA’s equipment
purchases today. David Nicholson, TSA’s assistant administrator
for finance and administration, and Charles Edwards, the
Homeland Security Department’s inspector general, will testify.  “The CIA uncovered terrorists’ latest modified underwear
bomb plot, but TSA has repeatedly failed to effectively procure
and deploy screening equipment that actually detects threats,”
Mica said in a statement.  Moving Equipment  The TSA reduced the annual costs of running its three Texas
warehouses to $3.5 million in 2011 from $7.6 million a year in
2009, Nicholson said  in prepared remarks . Almost 80 percent of
screening equipment the agency purchases is stored for less than
a year, he said.  Congressional staff attempting to learn about equipment
purchases and storage faced deliberate delays while the TSA
attempted to hide unused machines, the report found.  When investigators asked on a site visit why so few workers
were at the Texas storage site at 3 p.m., a manager said he had
sent them home because they had been working since 6 a.m. to
remove 1,300 pieces of equipment, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  