-- Sainsbury to Slow Store Openings as Investment Passes Peak
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-05-09T09:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/sainsbury-to-slow-store-openings-boost-dividend-as-profit-gains.html
J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s third-
largest supermarket company, plans to slow the pace of store
openings after three years of accelerated expansion as it
switches attention to increasing dividends.  The grocer will revert to adding about 5 percent a year to
its store space, which has grown by a quarter in the last four
years, the London-based grocer said today as it reported a gain
in annual profit. Capital spending will be reduced to about 1
billion pounds ($1.62 billion) in the fiscal year through March
2013, from 1.24 billion pounds in the previous 12 months.  Sainsbury follows larger competitor  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  in reining
back store investment as grocers focus on convenience outlets
and online services rather than adding more large supermarkets.
Chief Executive Officer Justin King said today that spending is
past its peak and pledged to raise dividends each year and to
build cover to two times so-called underlying earnings.  “This signals the end of the space race,” said  Philip Dorgan , an analyst at Panmure Gordon in London. “Focus across
the sector will now shift to increasing shareholder returns,
which is good news for share prices.”  Sainsbury rose as much as 3.2 percent in London trading and
was up 2.3 percent at 308.3 pence at 9:39 a.m., the second-
biggest gain in the U.K. benchmark  FTSE 100 Index. (UKX)   Fewer Openings  Openings this year will be restricted to about two new
 convenience stores  a week, 20 new supermarkets and as many as 10
store extensions, King said on a conference call.  Larger 100,000 square-foot (9,290-meter) hypermarkets with
the majority of space dedicated to non-food items are a “poor
format,” the CEO said, adding that Sainsbury’s supermarket
openings will be limited to about 30,000 square feet each.  U.K. market leader Tesco said last month it will reduce
 capital spending  by 500 million pounds to 3.3 billion pounds
this year as it opens fewer large stores.  Sainsbury faces a fightback by Tesco, which last month
unveiled plans to invest 1 billion pounds on store
refurbishments, additional staff and improved products to revive
sales growth that has trailed the market this year.  Sainsbury’s sales growth was ahead of the market at 5.4
percent in the 12 weeks ended April 15, while its share of the
grocery market was steady at 16.6 percent, Kantar Worldpanel has
said. That’s the “highest for a decade,” according to King.
Tesco’s market share was 30.7 percent, rebounding for a second
month after falling to a seven-year low earlier in the year.  Higher Profit  “Whilst the wider economic situation remains uncertain, we
remain confident that our clear strategy, market insight and
strong values will enable us to make further progress,” King
said in the statement.  Sainsbury’s pretax profit, excluding one-time items, rose
to 712 million pounds in the year ended March 17, from 665
million pounds a year earlier. The average  estimate  of 17
analysts compiled by Bloomberg was 702.6 million pounds.  The grocer introduced the Brand Match campaign last year,
offering shoppers a coupon at the checkout if their shopping
basket could have been bought more cheaply at a competitor. More
than 1 million coupons have been issued a day, King said.
Promotions and coupons “are here to stay,” he added.  Earlier this month, William Morrison Supermarkets Plc, the
smallest of the U.K.’s four main grocery chains, vowed not to be
drawn into a coupon battle even as its market share slips.  Sainsbury increased its full-year  dividend  by 6.6 percent
to 16.1 pence a share. The payment is covered 1.75 times by
underlying basic earnings of 28.1 pence a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  