-- Sarkozy Party Splits Risk Hurting Bid to Keep Parliament
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-05-09T08:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/sarkozy-party-splits-risk-hurting-bid-to-keep-parliament.html
Nicolas Sarkozy’s political party is
fighting to keep recriminations and rivalries in check for at
least another six weeks to prevent President-elect Francois Hollande’s Socialists from taking control of Parliament.  The split in Sarkozy’s Union for a  Popular Movement  turns
on whether to cut deals with Marine Le Pen’s anti-euro National
Front for the two-round parliamentary elections on June 10-17.
Her party remains offensive to many in the mainstream because it
was founded by her Holocaust-questioning father, Jean-Marie.  “The breakup of the UMP is inevitable after Sarkozy
lost,” said  Laurent Dubois , a professor at Paris-based
Institute of Political Studies. “The UMP lived thanks to
Sarkozy and it will die thanks to Sarkozy. The party faces a
real handicap in the legislative vote.”  The Socialists and their allies would take 44 percent of
the vote for the 577-seat National Assembly, the UMP and its
allies 36.5 percent, and the National Front 18 percent,
according to an Ifop poll the day of the presidential election.
The poll, for magazine Paris Match and radio station  Europe  1,
questioned 968 people. No margin of error was given.  A majority would enable Hollande to push through a program
that includes raising taxes, increasing spending, imposing a 75
percent levy on incomes above 1 million euros ($1.3 million),
and returning the minimum  retirement age  to 60 from 62.  The Socialists control the Senate and 21 of 22 regions in
mainland France. The UMP holds 305 seats in the National
Assembly against the Socialists’ 197. Hollande’s win over
Sarkozy on May 6 gave his party the presidency for the first
time since 1995.  Partnership  UMP leaders clashed last week when Gerard Longuet, the
defense minister in Sarkozy’s outgoing government, said that Le
Pen, who took 17.9 percent in the first round of the
presidential vote, was a negotiating partner for the
parliamentary elections. Local UMP officials in the south, where
the National Front has been strong for two decades, have
periodically called for electoral alliances.  Jean-Paul Garraud, a UMP deputy from near Bordeaux, said in
a May 7 statement, that the party had to be “pragmatic” and
not “ideological” about alliances with the National Front.  Jean-Francois Cope, the head of the UMP, rejected any deal.
“There won’t be an alliance of any nature, nor discussions,
with the National Front,” Cope said on May 7. “Our political
family is totally united.”  The issue of whether to create alliances in the legislative
elections results from a quirk in the system. In the
presidential election, the top two vote getters in the first
round -- assuming neither gets 50 percent -- face off in the
run-off. For the assembly, candidates with over 12.5 percent
qualify for the second round if no one breaches 50 percent.  Three-Way Races  The consequence is a series of three-way races where
refusing an alliance between the UMP and the National Front
could hand a seat to a Socialist candidate.  In the first round of the presidential elections, Le Pen
won more than 12.5 percent in 353 parliamentary constituencies,
61 percent of the total. She won in 21 constituencies. In the
second round, Hollande won 333 districts and Sarkozy won 244,
according to the  Interior Ministry .  In the second round, 54 percent of Le Pen’s first-round
voters opted for Sarkozy, according to a poll by Ifop that
questioned 1,968 voters on election day.  “There’s a risk that all powers will be handed to the left
as a result of deadly triangular contests in the legislatives,”
Garraud wrote in his statement.  Le Pen has made it clear she’s counting on a break-up of
the UMP. “The future is a recomposition of French politics,”
she told supporters at a Paris rally May 1. “You are now the
center of gravity of French politics.”  Immigration  Ranking UMP members, such as former Prime Minister Jean- Pierre Raffarin and Higher Education Minister Laurent Wauquiez,
have expressed disquiet about Sarkozy’s emphasis on issues close
to the National Front, such as immigration and national
identity.  While there was common ground on law-and-order issues, the
parties disagree on others. Le Pen wants  France  out the euro,
while Sarkozy is one of the architects of Europe’s efforts to
save the common currency. Sarkozy wants to cut immigration in
half to 100,000 a year, while Le Pen wants to cut it to 10,000 a
year. Le Pen favors giving preference to French citizens for
jobs and housing; Sarkozy says that’s unconstitutional.  Unlike the U.S.’s two political parties, or  Germany ’s
Social Democrats, who date to the 19th century, the UMP is a
recent creation. It was formed in 2002 as a merger of parties
backing president  Jacques Chirac  and was initially called Union
for a Presidential Majority. The Socialists date to 1905 though
it took its current name in 1969. Marine’s father Jean-Marie Le
Pen created the National Front in 1972.  UMP Divisions  The elections for parliament won’t be the last vote for the
UMP. In the autumn, Cope’s term as party head comes up for
review with Sarkozy’s Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  among the
probable challengers. Sarkozy has said he will leave politics
after his defeat.  “Once there is a defeat, the people in political parties
try to position themselves and there is a risk of division,”
said  Antonio Barroso , an analyst at Eurasia Group. “It’s a
classic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  