-- SEC Files Suit Against Ex-Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-05-09T20:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/sec-files-suit-against-ex-detroit-mayor-kwame-kilpatrick-2-.html
Former  Detroit  Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick
and the city’s ex-treasurer were sued by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, which accused them of steering pension-fund
business to a firm that provided them with $125,000 in gifts.  Chauncey Mayfield, whose firm managed real estate for
Detroit’s pension funds, paid for the officials’ hotel rooms,
private jet trips, and entertainment, including $2,174 for
tickets to a Prince concert in Las Vegas, the SEC said today in
a civil lawsuit filed in U.S. District Court in Detroit.
Kilpatrick and Treasurer Jeffrey Beasley were on the boards of
the pensions, which invested $117 million in Chauncey’s firm, it
said.  “It is a disappointing day when pension fund trustees such
as ex-Mayor Kilpatrick and others corrupt the investment process
by selling out hardworking police officers, firefighters and
other municipal employees,”  Robert Khuzami , the director of the
SEC’s Division of Enforcement, said in a statement.  U.S. federal and state regulators have been cracking down
on public officials trading favors in return for a share of the
more than $2.6 trillion held in public retirement funds.  Former  New York  State Comptroller  Alan Hevesi  pleaded
guilty in 2010 to trading gifts for access to pension business.
Last month, former chief executive of the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System , the largest U.S. public pension,
was sued the SEC over claims he defrauded an investment firm
into paying $20 million in fees to a friend’s employers.  Firm Named  The SEC’s lawsuit against the former Detroit officials also
names Mayfield and his firm, MayfieldGentry Realty Advisors LLC,
as defendants.  James Thomas, an attorney for Kilpatrick, didn’t
immediately return a phone call. Walter Piszczatowski, a lawyer
for Beasley, also didn’t immediately respond to a message. Eric
Yaffe, who represents Mayfield, declined to comment. Peter
Zeidenberg, a lawyer with MayfieldGentry, declined to comment.  The SEC lawsuit is the latest legal challenge to
Kilpatrick, a Democrat who became mayor the  Michigan ’s largest 
city in 2001. He left office in 2008 after pleading guilty to 
lying about an extramarital affair while on the witness stand 
and was released from prison last year.  The investment firm at the center of the Detroit case,
MayfieldGentry, had managed city pension money since 2002. The
SEC said the pensions were the firm’s largest source of income.  ‘Clear the Air’  The Detroit mayor’s administration began soliciting favors
from Mayfield after he supported Kilpatrick’s unsuccessful
opponent in the 2005 election, according to the complaint.
Beasley, a former college fraternity brother of Kilpatrick whom
he appointed to the treasurer’s job, in 2006 offered to help
Mayfield “clear the air” with Kilpatrick and later went on to
solicit gifts from the adviser, the SEC said in the lawsuit.  Among the items paid for by Mayfield were a $62,922 trip to
 Las Vegas  for Kilpatrick, Beasley and their associates, which
included VIP suites at the Venetian Resort Hotel Casino, $2,712
for golf outings and $2,175 for a midnight performance by
Prince, according to the lawsuit.  In another instance, Mayfield paid for private flights for
Kilpatrick, Beasley and family members who traveled to  Bermuda ,
where the mayor mingled with members of the band Earth, Wind &
Fire, according to the lawsuit. The adviser allegedly also
picked up bills on trips to  Charlotte ,  North Carolina  and
Tallahassee.  The SEC said the gifts created a conflict of interest that
should have been disclosed and wasn’t. From 2008 through 2010,
Mayfield’s firm earned almost $3 million from a real-estate fund
it set up, primarily because of Detroit’s investments, according
to the lawsuit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ; 