-- Serbia Seen Shunning Rate Increase Until Cabinet Formed
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-05-09T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/serbia-seen-shunning-rate-increase-until-cabinet-formed.html
Serbia ’s central bank will probably
refrain from raising  borrowing costs  as rate-setters await the
formation of a new government to gauge policy direction after
inflation slowed below their target.  The Narodna Banka Srbije, based in the capital, Belgrade,
will keep its benchmark two-week repurchase rate at 9.5 percent
for a fourth month today, according to 18 of 22 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. One predicts a half-point rate increase, two
forecast a quarter-point advance, while one estimates a quarter-
point cut.  Serbian President  Boris Tadic  faces a May 20 runoff with
opposition leader  Tomislav Nikolic , who opposes cuts in spending
as voter anger at austerity measures sweeps across  Europe .
Consumer prices slowed to within the central bank’s 4 percent
goal for the first time in almost two years in March.  “They’ll wait for the elections to finish,” Ljiljana Grubic, chief analyst at Belgrade-based Raiffeisen Banka AD,
said yesterday by phone. “They’re also waiting to see the
impact of changes in reserve-requirement rules and a weaker
dinar on prices.”  The Serbian currency has fallen to 112.05 against the euro,
near its record-low 112.0915, from 107.0747 at the start of the
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Growth Versus Inflation  Policy makers across Europe are weighing economic-growth
prospects against inflationary pressures as the continent
grapples with a sovereign-debt crisis.  Poland unexpectedly raised borrowing costs by a quarter-
point to 4.75 percent yesterday to tame inflation. Hungary kept
its two-week deposit rate at 7 percent for a fourth month in
April.  Romania ’s central bank has cut the benchmark  interest
rate  four times since November to 5.25 while Czech policy makers
have left the two-week repurchase rate at a record-low 0.75
percent since May 2010.  Serbia cut interest rates by a total of 3 percentage points
from June to December last year to contain an economic slowdown
triggered by Europe’s debt crisis. The Balkan nation is seeking
to avoid a second recession in three years after its economy
contracted 1.3 percent from a year earlier in the first quarter.  Consumer prices  rose 3.2 percent from a year earlier in
March, down from 4.9 percent the previous month and as much as
14.7 percent last April.  Policy makers “won’t move on rates immediately because
inflation is still low,” Predrag Stojanovic, head of treasury
at Belgrade-based Piraeus Banka AD, said May 8 by phone.  Anti-Austerity Mood  As voters from  France  to  Greece  replace politicians in a
wave of anger over austerity, Serbs are split between Tadic’s
European Union bid and Nikolic’s rejection of cuts to keep
fiscal policies in line with EU demands, as well as rhetoric
about the nation’s claim on Kosovo. Nikolic’s Progressive Party
won May 6 elections by less than 2 percentage points.  The new government must revise the budget and reduce the
fiscal deficit to 4.25 percent of economic output to convince
the  International Monetary Fund  of its commitment to maintaining
macroeconomic stability. The Washington-based lender suspended a
$1.3 billion precautionary loan in February on concern Serbia
would breach the agreed borrowing targets.  The fiscal gap will reach 5.7 percent of gross domestic
product by end-2012 if economic and tax policies remain
unchanged, the Belgrade-based Economics Institute said May 8.  Measures to curb the gap may help the central bank stop
spending foreign-currency reserves on supporting the dinar. The
regulator has sold 750 million euros ($973 million) since
January to bolster the currency, which has fallen as investors
pull out of the Balkan country and exports ebb on weaker
European demand.  A “commitment or not by the new government to the IMF
program will be key for Serbian assets,” Anne Benoit, emerging-
markets currency and debt strategist at Societe Generale SA in
 London , said May 8 in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  