-- Serbian Socialists, Democrats Agree to Work to Form Cabinet
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-05-09T15:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/serbian-socialists-democrats-agree-to-work-to-form-a-government.html
Serbia ’s Socialist Party said it
agreed with the  Democratic Party  of Boris Tadic to work to
create a coalition government after parliamentary elections last
weekend.  The Socialists, who ranked third in the May 6 elections,
will also support Tadic in a presidential runoff on May 20,
Branko Ruzic, chairman of the Socialist Party’s executive board,
said today by phone. Detailed discussions on other partners to
be included in a new government will take place after the
outcome of the presidential ballot is known, Tadic’s party said
today in a statement.  “An agreement has been reached, in line with our previous
cooperation, that we will continue to work together to try and
form a new majority in parliament and support  Boris Tadic  in the
second round of presidential elections,” Ruzic said.  As governments from Ireland to Italy fall in a wave of
anger over austerity, the Serb election took place as French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  was ousted and  Greece ’s vote ended in
a deadlock. Serbs are split between Tadic’s bid for European
Union entry and the Progressive Party’s  Tomislav Nikolic ’s
nationalist rhetoric about the nation’s claim on Kosovo two
decades after  Yugoslavia  broke up and his rejection of cuts
needed to keep fiscal policies in line with EU demands.  Search for Partner  The Progressives took 24 percent of the vote for
parliament, followed by the Democrats with 22.1 percent and the
Socialists, once led by  Slobodan Milosevic , with 14.5 percent,
according to the  Electoral Commission . Together the Democrats
and Socialists will have 111 of the legislature’s 250 seats.
Potential partners include the Liberal Democrats, which took 20
seats, the United Regions of Serbia Party with 16 seats.  The Democrats will wait until the second round of a
presidential election is over to begin talks with the Liberal
Democrats and the United Regions of Serbia, the Tanjug newswire
reported today, quoting the party’s vice president Dragan Sutanovac.  “The third partner will be a matter of talks,” Ruzic
said, adding that it was up to the Democratic Party to pick
future members of the coalition to give it a majority in
parliament. Partners must agree on joint goals including
policies on  Kosovo  and relations with the Bosnian Serb Republic,
he added.  The Liberal Democrats have called on politicians to
acknowledge the reality of Kosovo, the former Serbian province
that unilaterally declared independence in 2008 and has been
recognized by 90 states, including 22 EU members. Serbia refuses
to recognize Kosovo’s independence though closer ties with its
former province remain the top condition for Belgrade to win the
date for the start of EU membership talks.  Tadic, who won Serbia’s candidacy for EU entry on March 1
and was running for a third term in concurrent presidential
elections, won 26.8 percent in the first round. He will face off
against Nikolic, who ranked second with a 25.6 percent of all
votes last Sunday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  