-- Sessions Sees ‘Energized’ Tea Party as Lugar Loses Vote
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-05-09T18:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/sessions-sees-energized-tea-party-amid-lugar-primary-loss.html
Texas  Representative Pete Sessions,
who leads the Republican Party’s re-election efforts in the U.S.
House, said the Tea Party movement remains “angry and
energized” almost two years after it helped Republicans take
control of the House.  Sessions, who spoke today at a breakfast in  Washington 
sponsored by the Christian Science Monitor, said Tea Party
activists have as their chief goals repealing President  Barack Obama ’s health care law and controlling federal spending. He
spoke the morning after Republican Richard Lugar of Indiana, a
six-term Senate veteran, lost in a primary to Indiana State
Treasurer Richard Mourdock, who was backed by the anti-tax-and-
spending movement.  “I am seeing not just a resurgence but a continued support
from  Tea Party  people who are becoming involved in the system or
actively pushing each and every one of us,” said Sessions,
chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee.
“If you look at what is occurring in Republican conventions
around the country they are energized.”  The future of the Tea Party movement has been debated as
polls show the public growing less sympathetic to it. According
to a May 3-7 AP-GfK Roper Public Affairs poll, 22 percent say
they support the Tea Party, down from 31 percent in a May 2010
survey.  West Virginia Vote  At today’s breakfast, Sessions and Oregon Republican Greg Walden, deputy chairman of the Republican congressional
committee, said the results of the Democratic presidential
primary in  West Virginia  last night underscore Obama’s problems
with “blue-collar” voters in states that include Illinois and
Kentucky.  In the state’s Democratic presidential primary, Keith Judd,
who is serving a sentence at the Beaumont Federal Correctional
Institute in Texas for extortion, received 42 percent of the
vote. The results could qualify Judd for delegate representation
at the 2012 Democratic National Convention, according to DNC
rules.  “The president’s policies met blue-collar reality,”
Walden said. “His attack on coal and energy really met a direct
response. How embarrassing is it if you’re the president and
you’re losing West Virginia to a guy sitting in prison.”  Obama campaign spokesman  Ben LaBolt  responded by saying the
president received more primary votes in West Virginia and in
 North Carolina  than did former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , the Republican presidential candidate.  Romney received 77,477 votes to Obama’s 105,833 votes in
the West Virginia primary, according to Associated Press vote
totals. In North Carolina, Obama received 755,934 votes and
Romney had 635,028.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  