-- SGX Defeats Bid by China Sky Director to Quash Reprimand
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-05-09T22:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/sgx-defeats-bid-by-china-sky-director-to-quash-reprimand.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. won a ruling
against  China Sky Chemical Fibre Co. (CSCF) ’s former independent
director Yeap Wai Kong, who had sought to quash the bourse’s
public reprimand against him in December.  Singapore Exchange, also known as SGX, “fully and
substantively” gave Yeap a fair hearing by giving him notice of
its intention to reprimand and full opportunities between August
and December to be heard, Singapore High Court Judge Philip
Pillai wrote in a 44-page ruling yesterday. Yeap called the
verdict “disappointing” in a mobile-phone text message.  The exchange had been “tyrannous in the use of its
strength,” Yeap’s lawyer Tan Cheng Han argued in court at the
start of the hearing in April. China Sky and its directors
clashed with Singapore regulators following their refusal to
heed a Nov. 16 directive by the exchange to appoint a special
auditor.  The Commercial Affairs Department was also probing the
Chinese nylon-fiber maker for possible breaches of securities
laws after a “number of irregularities” were discovered by the
SGX.  Yeap was “part of a collective and determined effort on
the part of the directors of the company to stymie the
exchange’s repeated efforts to get to the bottom of issues,”
 Singapore Exchange (SGX) ’s lawyer  Davinder Singh  of Drew & Napier LLC
had argued.  China Sky had intended to comply with the exchange’s
directive, contrary to the bourse’s impression, and had sought
to understand the basis for appointing the auditor, Yeap, said
in a Feb. 26 e-mailed statement.  Special Auditor  The bourse, in a statement yesterday following the court
ruling, again urged China Sky to appoint a special auditor
without delay.  “Listed companies and their directors have the
responsibility to see to it that there is proper disclosure and
adherence to listing rules,” SGX said.  Yeap, who was appointed to China Sky’s board in May 2011,
quit in January. China Sky’s two other independent directors Er Kwong Wah and Lai Seng Kwoon quit on the same day as Yeap,
citing non-compliance with the bourse’s order.  The case is Yeap Wai Kong v  Singapore Exchange  Securities
Trading Ltd. OS72/2012 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Schneider at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net  