-- Shale Gas Explorer Says U.K. Production May Start in 2014
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-05-10T15:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/shale-explorer-cuadrilla-says-u-k-production-may-start-in-2014.html
Cuadrilla Resources Ltd., a U.K.
shale-gas explorer that suspended drilling in northwest  England 
after causing minor earthquakes, expects to resume work this
year and said gas production may start in 2014.  “By the first quarter of 2013, we will be far enough along
in the exploration program to say this makes sense to go ahead
and apply for a full field development permit,” Cuadrilla Chief
Executive Officer Mark Miller said in an interview. “Production
could be under way as early as 2014.”  Cuadrilla, which says it’s found more natural gas trapped
in the local shale rock than  Iraq  has in its entire reserves,
plans to pursue  hydraulic fracturing  in three wells by the end
of this year. The program hinges on getting final approval from
Britain’s energy department, which called for an assessment of
fracking after two tremors in the area last year.  Fracking, as the process is known, uses water, sand and
chemicals to open fissures and has made the U.S. the world’s
largest natural-gas producer. European nations have hesitated to
endorse the technique because of concerns it may pollute water.
France and  Bulgaria  have banned the practice.  “It’s very important that nobody gets it wrong in
 Europe ,” Miller said. “We have to do this job right and
demonstrate that it’s safe, environmentally sound and
commercially viable.”  Cuadrilla, which also holds licenses in  Poland  and the
 Czech Republic , is privately held and backed by private equity
group Riverstone Holdings LLC and  Australia ’s  AJ Lucas Group. (AJL) 
Its directors include former BP Plc CEO  John Browne .  Move from U.S.  Miller was invited to join Lichfield, England-based
Cuadrilla in 2007 and two years later moved to the U.K. from the
U.S. where he had spent more than 20 years running a well-
testing company. Prior to that he worked at oil services company
Schlumberger Ltd.  Cuadrilla’s estimate that the shale it’s exploring may
contain 200 trillion cubic feet of gas “represents the low end
of the range,” he said. While only a fraction of that gas could
be pumped, the deposits could add significantly to the U.K.’s
proven, recoverable reserves of 9 trillion cubic feet.  The thickness of the shale in the region Cuadrilla is
exploring is between 3,000 and 4,000 feet (1,220 meters), 10 to
15 times thicker than commonly found in the U.S., he said. What
fraction can be recovered will depend on the number and location
of production wells drilled in the area, he added.  “It’s a game changer if we can show that it works,”
Miller said.  Suspend Fracturing  Cuadrilla suspended all hydraulic fracturing operations
after causing two quakes early last year. The first tremor on
April 1 measured 2.3 on the Richter scale. A weaker quake of 1.5
was recorded in May. The company released a report in November
saying that fracking probably caused the quakes, prompting a
government assessment.  The energy department recommended last month that
fracturing should be allowed to resume in the U.K. as long as
“robust” measures are adopted. These include setting a seismic
threshold of magnitude 0.5 when drilling would stop, injecting
small amounts of water before undertaking a full-scale fracking
operation and constant monitoring for seismic activity.  “We agree with the Department of Energy and Climate Change
recommendation to work at a level below what people can feel,”
Miller said. “That’s what is really important here, because a
lot of this is about perception.”  Preese Hall  Cuadrilla has no immediate plans to pursue fracking
operations at its Preese Hall well, where the earthquakes
occurred, he said.  Other companies pursuing shale gas exploration in the U.K.
include  IGas Energy Plc. (IGAS)  The company said April 2 that it found
a shale deposit at a field in the Ince Marshes in Cheshire.
Poland, Europe’s biggest holder of unconventional natural gas,
has granted more than 100 licenses to companies including  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)   IGas  shares  rose 5.2 percent to 65.5 pence today in London.
The stock has risen 20 percent since the beginning of the year.  Commercial-scale development will require a “large
financial partner” from the industry or banking, Miller said.
There are no plans to sell out entirely, he added.  “When you go from the exploration program and cross over
into development there is an enormous amount of money to be
spent on operations,” Miller said. “When we get to that point,
that’s a whole different scenario.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  