-- Short Seller Drops Muddy Waters Model for SEC
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   D u n e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2012-05-10T14:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/short-seller-drops-muddy-waters-model-for-sec.html
Short seller Jon Carnes made millions
of dollars publishing anonymous reports accusing Chinese
companies of fraud. Now settled in  Vancouver  after fleeing
threats of violence in  China , he’s trying another business
model: providing tips to the U.S. government.  The 38-year-old says he’s applied to the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission for whistle-blower status in connection
with lawsuits filed by the regulator accusing two executives at
China’s  Puda Coal Inc. (PUDA)  of fraud. The SEC  program , established
following the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, gives informants a share of
proceeds if their information leads to more than $1 million in
penalties.  Carnes, who at one time worked with  Muddy Waters  LLC
founder Carson Block, is among short sellers who have published
fraud allegations as they try to drive down share prices. While
the high-stakes strategy paid off for Carnes, who posts his
anonymous reports on his website  alfredlittle.com , it has also
brought him lawsuits and physical threats to some of his
associates. Carnes’ experience in China and his decision to help
the SEC may illustrate the limits of short selling in a country
where foreign investors have fewer legal rights compared to
 North America .  “I would never have done AL if I could go back,” Carnes
said, referring to the website’s initials. “Our friends who
didn’t publish anything and just shorted, they made just about
as much money as we did without any fallout.”  Reverse Takeover  Congress expanded the SEC’s whistle-blower provisions after
the agency failed to act on tips it received about  Bernard Madoff ’s multibillion-dollar fraud. Under the program, a
whistle-blower can be awarded 10 percent to 30 percent of any
money the SEC collects, depending on how central the tip was to
proving the case. The SEC said in a November report that 334
tips had been received under the program in its first 50 days of
operation.  “When we discovered this last year, we thought this was
perfect,” said Carnes in his first public comments about his
short selling. “One thing that’s very helpful for us in
protecting ourselves is if these Chinese companies think the SEC
is listening to us.”  Puda Coal is a so-called Chinese reverse takeover company,
after it acquired another company to gain a share listing in
North America rather than holding an initial public offering.
The allegations made against Puda and other companies by short
sellers such as Carnes and Block have heightened investor
scrutiny of reverse-takeover companies trading in the U.S. and
 Canada . The  Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers (CHINARTO)  Index fell 62
percent last year.  ‘Good Story’  In a short sale, a trader borrows shares and sells them. If
the price drops, the trader profits by buying back the stock at
a lower price, repaying the loan and pocketing the difference.  Negative research reports like those published by
alfredlittle.com and Muddy Waters attract attention because
“people like the drama -- it’s a good story,” says  Kevin Carter , co-founder and chief executive officer at Baochuan
Capital Management LLC in Walnut Creek,  California , which
oversees more than $50 million of investments. “These guys are
yelling fire in a movie theater.”  Carnes, who is married with children, wore open-collared
shirts and a black Ermenegildo Zegna jacket at two interviews in
downtown Vancouver last month. He said he made a $2.5 million
profit shorting  Silvercorp Metals Inc. (SVM) , a Vancouver-based
company that mines silver in China. The shares slid 20 percent
on Sept. 13, the day a report questioning Silvercorp’s deposits
and production was published on alfredlittle.com.  Police Investigation  The  British Columbia Securities Commission  is probing
Carnes’ allegations about Silvercorp. Carnes says he’s
cooperating with SEC investigators and Canadian police.  Lorne Waldman, a spokesman for Silvercorp, Richard Gilhooley, a spokesman for the British Columbia watchdog, and
 John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment. Sergeant
Duncan Pound, a spokesman for the  Royal Canadian Mounted Police ,
said an investigation by his force is continuing and declined to
comment further.  A request for comment to Puda Coal’s offices in China
wasn’t immediately answered.  Silvercorp named Carnes in a lawsuit filed in the State
Supreme Court of  New York  alleging defamation.  Sino Clean Energy
Inc. (SCEI)  and  Deer Consumer Products Inc. (DEER) , also targets of reports on
alfredlittle.com alleging fraud, have also each filed complaints
in the same court alleging defamation.  Legal Bills  Helen Wang, a Deer spokeswoman, couldn’t be reached for
comment. Jing Li, an assistant to Sino Clean’s chief executive
officer, denied the short sellers’ allegations.  “We are very confident about the business fundamentals of
our company,” Li said. “I’m not saying Chinese companies do
not have certain problems, but making a profit by distorting
facts and exaggerating minor problems is very unethical.”  Carnes, who said the Puda application for whistle-blower
status cost him $50,000 in legal fees, also plans to seek
whistle-blower designation in relation to Silvercorp.  “If even one settlement does come through, that could be a
nice pay day, and maybe offset all the legal bills we’re piling
up,” he said.  U.S.-born Carnes says his investment career began in 1991
with $3,000 earned from a part-time job at a fried-chicken
restaurant in Columbia,  South Carolina . Between 1996 and 2001,
Carnes says he earned as much as $100,000 a day trading shares
until the Nasdaq market changed its pricing to decimals from
fractions, making his trading style unprofitable.  Vancouver Move  Carnes says he later worked with investor Andrew Worden on
“long” investments in China. Worden, who runs  Barron Partners
LP , now a New York-based investor in clean energy, declined to
comment.  To be closer to China, Carnes says he relocated to
Vancouver from Las Vegas. He employed a group of graduates from
the  University of British Columbia  to conduct due diligence on
companies in China.  Carnes’ initial focus was on private investments in public
equity, or PIPEs, in which investors acquire shares of a public
company at a discount in exchange for capital. The buyer is then
restricted from selling on the open market for a set period.  “He was never a promoter, he was just very, very, very
cautious and he was the one who would go look and visit and see
what was going on at these companies,” said Steve Mazur, a
Pennsylvania-based private investor who invested with Carnes in
two Chinese companies. “I don’t think he’s the type of guy who
would make up things to make money.”  ‘Low-Hanging Fruit’  Carnes said that when his due diligence found evidence of
questionable practices at publicly traded companies, he decided
to use it.  “When there’s so much low-hanging-fruit frauds, then you
go get them as fast as you can,” he said.  Carnes says he first met Block in September 2010 to talk
about a report on  Orient Paper Inc. (ONP)  published by Block’s
research firm  Muddy Waters . Block -- the founder of a self-
storage company in Shanghai called Love Box and co-author of
“Doing Business in China for Dummies” (For Dummies, 384 pages,
$21.99) -- subsequently cooperated in shorting  Rino
International Corp. (RINO) , a Chinese designer of wastewater equipment.  Muddy Waters said in a November 2010 report that Rino had
exaggerated its revenue. Rino said in a filing eight days later
that two years of financial statements weren’t reliable. The
shares tumbled 67 percent that month in U.S. trading.  “Carson, overnight, was famous,” Carnes said. “The short
sellers, Carson and us, really woke up to, wow, there’s a
killing to be made here exposing fraud.”  Sino-Forest  Zach Kouwe, a spokesman for Block, and Rino Chief Financial
Officer Ben Wang declined to comment.  “We were very shocked when we saw Muddy Water’s report
because all the allegations were highly misleading and
inaccurate,” Orient Paper said in an e-mail. “The company
believes the allegations are false and their short selling is
totally irresponsible behavior to not only the company but the
entire market.”  Carnes and Block later split amicably, according to Carnes,
with Block aligning himself with investors in  Hong Kong .  Block published a Muddy Waters report in June that alleged
fraud at  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , China’s largest forestry company.
Sino-Forest fell 74 percent in Toronto, losing investors about
C$3.3 billion ($3.3 billion), before the shares were suspended
amid investigations by the Ontario Securities Commission,
Canada’s top securities watchdog, and the RCMP.  Silvercorp Slump  Sino-Forest has denied the allegations and is suing Block
for defamation. The Hong Kong-and Mississauga, Ontario-based
company owes bondholders $1.8 billion and filed for bankruptcy
in March. Sellers of credit-default swaps on Sino-Forest Corp.
bonds will have to pay 71 cents on the dollar to settle
contracts, following an auction for the bonds held May 9.  Carnes says questions about the accuracy of Silvercorp’s
filings to  China’s State Administration for Industry & Commerce 
began to emerge in the first half of last year, prompting
Carnes, Block and other short sellers to separately undertake
due diligence. On Sept. 2, Silvercorp fell 9.7 percent in
Toronto after it said in a statement it was aware of an
anonymous letter dated Aug. 29 alleging irregularities.
Silvercorp denied the allegations, which are summarized in the
statement.  ‘At Risk’  Carnes says he was so disappointed with the Silvercorp
response to the letter that he decided to publish his own
research on Sept. 13. Later that day, Block posted on Twitter
that he was shorting Silvercorp.  “I had no clue that Carson was going to tweet that he was
short, and when he did the bottom fell out of it,” said Carnes,
who says he pocketed $1 million that day.  In total, Carnes says he and the contributors to what he
calls his investment partnership have made about $10 million
from shorting Chinese companies.  Carnes says the reason he published anonymous research was
for protection from the companies he targeted. Despite being
“obsessive” about security, Carnes says his associates faced
threats after they were identified as being part of the
alfredlittle.com operation.  In an affidavit filed in the State Supreme Court of New
York in September, Carnes said he was aware of five separate
incidents in China in which people with whom he has associated
in researching companies were subject to threats or physical
violence. Carnes said he heard of the incidents directly from
the associates and saw facial bruises from the beatings,
according to the affidavit.  Carnes says people liked working for alfredlittle.com in
China and he paid them well.  “The only danger we felt was the danger of being beat
up,” he says. “I’m worried about the guys in China. They are
all at risk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  