-- Cathay Pacific, Singapore Air Slump as Fuel Hits Earnings
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-05-10T12:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/singapore-air-posts-loss-cathay-slows-growth-on-fuel.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  plunged
the most in more than a year and  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  tumbled
after the carriers said that higher fuel prices and waning
demand were hitting earnings.  Cathay tumbled 6.3 percent to HK$12.52 at the close in Hong
Kong, the biggest drop since December 2010, after cutting growth
plans and predicting “disappointing” first-half earnings.
Singapore Air fell 2.8 percent to S$10.29, the lowest since
January, in the city-state, after a surprise quarterly loss.  Asia ’s two largest airlines by international travel are
struggling to pass on fuel costs that have jumped 40 percent in
two years as the economic slowdown damps demand for passenger
and freight flights. Deutsche Lufthansa AG also this month
announced plans to cut 3,500 posts to lower costs following a
wider first-quarter loss.  “Passenger demand remains weak, fuel prices keep rising
and there is no sign of a pick-up in cargo,” said Jim Wong, an
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  Singapore Air slumped to a surprise loss of S$38.2 million
($31 million) in the quarter ended March 31, the company
reported after the close of local markets yesterday. It had been
expected to make a profit of S$119 million, based on the average
of six analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Under Pressure’  The company’s yields, a measure of average fares, are
“under pressure” as competition has forced it to keep prices
low, Goh Choon Phong, Singapore Air’s chief executive officer,
told reporters in city-state today. Cathay’s yields are also
“softening” in premium cabins, it said in a trading statement
yesterday.  A “high fuel price and weak economic environment are
particularly challenging to long-haul airlines,” Goh said.  Cathay pared its forecast of passenger-capacity growth to
3.2 percent this year from 7 percent, while Singapore Air’s main
unit plans to increase capacity about 3 percent in the year that
started April 1, down from a 5 percent expansion in the previous
fiscal year.  Cathay will stop hiring  ground staff , offer cabin crew
unpaid leave and pare cargo expansion to lower costs. Singapore
Air has no plans to offer cabin attendants and more pilots
unpaid leave, said Ng Chin Hwee, its executive vice president
for operations. The airline offered first officers as much as
two years off in March.  Fuel Rises  Jet fuel  averaged 9 percent higher in Singapore trading
than a year earlier in the three months ended March, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Fuel accounted for 41 percent of
Singapore Air’s costs in the year ended in March, compared with
an average of 27 percent since 2004.  “It is a situation facing the aviation industry as a
whole,” Cathay Chief Executive Officer John Slosar said in  Hong
Kong  yesterday. “Fuel prices have increased and remained
consistently high, cargo business remains generally weak, and
passenger yields are soft.”  Cathay has no plans to defer any on-order aircraft or to
cut any routes, the airline said. Cathay is due to receive 15
new planes this year, including six already in service.  Singapore Air’s regional unit SilkAir has sent out requests
for information as it considers purchasing small planes such as
 Boeing Co. (BA)  737s and Airbus SAS A320s to give it more coverage in
China and  India , said Mak Swee Wah, its executive vice
president, commercial.  At Singapore Air’s mainline unit, yields fell 3.3 percent
in the quarter ended March. The unit filled 77.6 percent of
seats, a 2.1 percentage point increase from a year earlier. The
carrier also made a loss from retiring the last of its Boeing
747-400 planes.  The airline industry’s profit will drop 62 percent this
year as fuel costs rise, the  International Air Transport
Association  forecast on March 20.  Air China Ltd. (601111) , the world’s
largest carrier by market value, and China Southern Airlines Co.
both posted lower profits for the three months ended March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  