-- SingTel Plans Purchases in China, India as Profit Climbs
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-05-10T06:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/singtel-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-30-beats-estimates.html
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) ,
Southeast  Asia ’s biggest phone company, may buy non-phone
businesses in  China ,  India  or the U.S. as it shifts focus from
slower-growing core markets in Singapore and Australia.  SingTel, as the company is known, may raise its stakes in
associates in Asia and Africa and make other “strategic
investments,” the carrier said in a statement today, while
reporting a 30 percent jump in fourth-quarter profit.  Net income 
climbed to S$1.29 billion ($1 billion) in the three months ended
March 31, beating the S$966 million average of seven analysts’
estimates, helped by a one-time tax credit.  The Singapore-based carrier plans to boost investments in
 emerging markets  and add businesses at its digital services
division as the Optus unit in Australia faces “continued
intense competition” and growth slows at home. The company
would benefit from acquiring operations such as mobile
advertising, according to  Carey Wong , an analyst at OCBC
Investment Research Pte. in Singapore.  “Being a pure carrier doesn’t cut it at this stage,” Wong
said before the earnings announcement. SingTel needs to “come
up with something new that can monetize the changing trends
we’re seeing among consumers.”  SingTel rose 1.6 percent to S$3.21 as of 2:05 p.m. in
Singapore, poised for its highest close since Dec. 12, while the
benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  fell 0.2 percent. The stock had
gained 2.3 percent this year up to yesterday’s close, trailing a
9.6 percent climb by the index.  The carrier, which in March announced an agreement to
acquire Redwood City, California-based mobile advertising
company Amobee Inc. for $321 million, said it planned to add
assets at its Digital Life division.  ‘Different Places’  “When we look at acquiring the technology know how in the
start up space, we could be looking at quite a few different
places,” Chief Executive Officer Chua Sock Koong told a media
conference in Singapore today. It could be startups in Silicon
Valley,  California  or in countries such as India and China, she
said.  Group revenue at the  Singapore  and Australia operations are
forecast to grow at “low single-digit” rates this year while
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization may
be stable, SingTel said. Dividends from associates in Asia and
Africa “are expected to grow,” it said.  SingTel owns all of its domestic business and Optus,
Australia’s second-largest phone company, and has minority
stakes in associated carriers in more than 10 countries in Asia
and Africa.  ‘Consistent With Expectations’  Sales at SingTel rose 3 percent from a year earlier to
S$4.78 billion in the three months ended March 31. Profit was
boosted in the fourth-quarter by a S$270 million tax credit, it
said.  Excluding the one-time items, the result was “consistent
with expectations”, William Bratton, an analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG in  Hong Kong , said by phone.  The company and its associates added about 12 million
mobile subscribers in the quarter, SingTel said in a release
yesterday. The additions boosted total customers to 445 million
at the end of March, 11 percent more than a year earlier.  Full-year net income  rose 4.3 percent to S$3.99 billion.
Excluding the tax benefit, items and exchange differences
including at associates, profit declined 3.3 percent to S$3.68
billion.  Full-year profit before tax at its domestic business, which
has a 46 percent share of Singapore’s mobile-phone market, fell
2 percent to S$1.67 billion.  Optus Gains  Pretax income at Optus, SingTel’s largest division by
sales, increased 4.2 percent to S$1.47 billion. Sales fell 1.1
percent in Australian dollar terms, which became a 2.7 percent
improvement when translated into Singapore dollars.  Pretax earnings from SingTel’s joint ventures and
associates dropped 8.5 percent to S$1.43 billion.  SingTel owns about a third of India’s  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) 
and Indonesia’s PT Telekomunikasi Selular and almost half of
Manila-based  Globe Telecom Inc. (GLO)   It has stakes in Pakistan’s Warid Telecom Pvt. and Pacific
Bangladesh Telecom Ltd., and holds 23 percent of  Advanced Info
Service Pcl (ADVANC) , Thailand’s largest mobile-phone operator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  