-- Softbank to Form Venture With Ebay Inc.’s PayPal, Son Says
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-05-09T04:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/softbank-to-form-venture-with-ebay-inc-s-paypal-son-says-1-.html
Softbank Corp. (9984) ,  Japan ’s third-largest
mobile-phone company, will form a joint venture with  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s
PayPal to offer digital payment services in the country.  Softbank and PayPal will each invest 1 billion yen ($12.5
million) in the venture, to be called PayPal Japan, the
companies said in a joint  statement  today. The new company will
offer a service that allows businesses to accept debit-card,
credit-card and PayPal payments through smartphones, they said.  The companies are targeting Japan’s 4.7 million small
businesses, which can use the service to avoid setting up
merchant accounts to collect card payments, Tokyo-based Softbank
and  San Jose , California-based PayPal said in the statement. The
venture may eventually sell shares to the public, Softbank
Chairman Masayoshi Son said at a press conference in  Tokyo .  “That’s the way both companies can benefit from the
business if it succeeds, instead of absorbing profits from the
venture,” Son said.  The Japanese retail commerce market, where many
transactions are still cash-based, was worth 134 trillion yen in
2011, according to today’s statement.  The service’s card reader, to sell for 1,200 yen, and an
application for Apple Inc.’s iPhone are available from today for
“select merchants,” the companies said. It will be available
to others “in the next several weeks,” along with a version
for Google Inc.’s Android operating system, according to the
statement.  Spending Growth  PayPal has 110 million active accounts in 190 markets and
25 currencies, while Softbank has 29 million mobile subscribers,
according to today’s statement.  PayPal led global growth in payment network spending in the
first quarter of this year, expanding 24 percent, compared with
a 13 percent marketwide increase, according to a report
yesterday by Bloomberg Industries analyst Alison Williams.
Growth outside the U.S. outpaced domestic growth, with PayPal’s
30 percent expansion leading rivals, the report said.  Facing intensifying competition in smartphones, Softbank is
trying to lure more customers by improving its network
connectivity after winning a license for more bandwidth earlier
this year.  KDDI Corp. (9433) , Japan’s No. 2 carrier, became the second
company to sell Apple Inc.’s iPhone in Japan in October, ending
Softbank’s local monopoly on selling the devices.  Softbank  rose  1 percent to 2,418 yen as of 12:51 p.m. in
Tokyo trading, extending its gain this year to 6.7 percent. EBay
has gained 33 percent on the Nasdaq Stock Exchange this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  