-- SouthWest Energy of Ethiopia Optimistic on Oil Search in Ogaden
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-05-09T08:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/southwest-energy-of-ethiopia-optimistic-on-oil-search-in-ogaden.html
SouthWest Energy , an Ethiopian oil-
exploration company, said it’s optimistic about the results of a
seismic survey in the Ogaden basin and has met oil majors to
discuss a possible partnership in the Horn of Africa country.  The initial findings from the survey completed in February
are “very encouraging,” Chairman Tewodros Ashenafi said in an
interview on May 7 in the capital, Addis Ababa. “Discovery could
very well possibly happen next year.”  Infrastructure needed for production, which would start at
least four years after any discovery, may cost as much as $3
billion, according to Tewodros. “That can only be done by the
big boys,” he said, without providing further details.  No oil has been found in  Ethiopia , which relies on exports
of coffee and other agricultural commodities to generate most of
its foreign-exchange earnings. The Somalia-bordering Ogaden
region, where PetroTrans Co. of Hong Kong operates the Calub and
Hilala fields, has 4 trillion cubic feet (113 billion cubic
meters) of natural gas, said Tewodros, who is in the Ethiopian
capital to attend the  World Economic Forum  on Africa that begins
today.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , based in  London , and  Canada ’s Africa Oil
Corp., in March announced they struck oil in Turkana, a northern
region in neighboring Kenya. The companies hired China’s BGP
Inc. to survey similar terrain across the border in Ethiopia’s
South Omo Block.  SouthWest, based in Addis Ababa and registered in  Hong
Kong , is also prospecting in Ethiopia’s southwestern Gambella
region. The 17,000 square-kilometer (6,564 square-miles)
concession is “exactly the same” as South Sudan’s oil-rich
Muglad Basin, said Tewodros. Muglad contains an estimated 6
billion barrels of oil in place, according to a 2010 report by
FirstEnergy Capital Corp. in Calgary, Canada.  Billions of Barrels  “I think two to three billion barrels of proven reserves is
not something that is unreasonable” for the sites being
prospected in the Ogaden, Omo and Gambella, he said.  The company has invested about $50 million in Ogaden blocks
9, 9A and 13, which cover 29,000 square kilometers, and plans to
commit a further $150 million over the next three years,
Tewodros said. Drilling is expected to start in the first
quarter of next year, he said.  The banned Ogaden National Liberation Front has waged a 28-
year campaign for self-determination in the Ogaden, which is
populated mainly by ethnic Somalis. In September, the rebel
fighters said they attacked a PetroTrans convoy, while the
company denied the incident. In April 2007, the rebel group
attacked an exploration site operated by  China ’s Zhongyuan
Petroleum Exploration Bureau, killing nine Chinese workers and
65 Ethiopians.  ‘Challenges’  While security “challenges” exist, SouthWest spent 1
million man hours during eight months of surveying without “a
single major accident or injury,” Tewodros said.  Oil produced in the Ogaden would probably be exported via a
pipeline to the coast of Somaliland, an autonomous northern
region of Somalia, which is as close as 120 kilometers (75
miles) from the blocks, he said.  Ogaden oil may be light in sulfur and “easier to refine,”
while Gambella’s could be “waxy” and need chemicals “to have it
flow,” according to Tewodros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 