-- Spain Takes Over Bankia, Readies Second Bailout
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-05-10T13:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/spain-takes-over-bankia-readies-second-bailout-after-rato-quits.html
Spain said it would take over  Bankia (BKIA) 
SA and may inject public funds into the banking group with the
most Spanish real estate as the government prepares the fourth
attempt to overhaul the financial system.  Spain’s bank bailout fund will convert its 4.5 billion
euros ($5.8 billion) of preferred shares in Bankia’s parent,
Banco Financiero y de Ahorros, into voting shares, the  Economy
Ministry  said in a  statement  yesterday. That will give it a
controlling stake of 45 percent in Bankia, the ministry said,
adding the government will provide the capital that’s “strictly
necessary” to clean up the lender.  The takeover adds momentum to Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s drive to shore up Spain’s financial system as concerns
about possible hidden losses on banks’ books push up the
government’s borrowing costs. The announcement came two days
after Bankia Chairman  Rodrigo Rato  said he would step down, to
be replaced by Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri, a former second-in-
command at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria (BBVA)  SA.  “This is a de facto nationalization of Bankia -- the news
is really quite shocking,” Mauro Guillen, a professor of
international management at the Wharton School at the  University
of Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia, said in a phone interview.
“The new guy from BBVA now comes in with the full backing of
the government to carry out his strategy.”  Shares Fall  Bankia fell as much as 3.8 percent, and was down 3.6
percent at 2.05 euros by 3:10 p.m. in  Madrid , taking the decline
since its initial public offering in July to 45 percent. Spain’s
Ibex 35 share index rose 2 percent.  As concern over how Spain will finance a cleanup of its
banking system stokes a resurgence of the sovereign debt crisis,
Rajoy said he will tomorrow outline his plan to bolster
confidence in the industry.  The gap in yield between Spanish 10-year bonds and German
bunds grew yesterday to the widest since November.  Spain ’s 10-
year bond yield declined to 6.04 percent today from 6.08 percent
yesterday.  Rato was asked to quit because of the economic situation,
the ruling People’s Party’s deputy leader Maria Dolores de Cospedal said today. Bankia group has about 300 billion euros of
assets, about a third of the size of the economy, making it
crucial to the government’s bid to convince investors it can
shore up lenders without endangering  public  finances.  Public Funds  The new management must present “as soon as possible” a
strengthened restructuring plan and the lender should “consider
the contribution of public funds to accelerate and increase its
cleanup,” the Bank of Spain said yesterday.  The conversion means BFA won’t have to buy back the
preferred shares, which carry an annual interest rate of 7.75
percent, in 2015 as originally planned. Those securities were
acquired by rescue-fund FROB in 2010 in a first attempt by Spain
to bolster a banking industry reeling from the property
collapse. Two other efforts followed, most recently in February.  Until now, BFA has been controlled by 300-year-old  Caja
Madrid  and six other savings banks that combined in 2010 to
create the Bankia group under Rato’s leadership.  Eliminating Cajas  The nationalization will erase the stakes held by the
savings banks, which were traditionally linked to regional
administrations and dedicated part of their profit to social and
cultural projects. A priest, Francisco Piquer, founded Caja
Madrid in 1702 using alms to fund loans for the destitute and
masses for the dead.  “What’s most positive is the elimination of the influence
of the savings banks by taking over BFA,” said Alberto Recarte,
who served on Caja Madrid’s board for 18 years. “Now it’s just
the state that’s in charge. The time of the savings banks has
gone forever.”  The Bank of Spain, which hailed Bankia’s IPO in July as
“very positive,” came in for criticism today. Josep Duran i
Lleida, parliamentary chief of the Catalan party and a Rajoy
ally, said Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez hadn’t paid
enough attention to supervision, eroding the regulator’s
prestige.  The European Union is discussing the bailout of Bankia with
the Spanish authorities, Antoine Colombani, spokesman for EU
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia , told reporters today
in Brussels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  