-- Spain Said to Partly Nationalize BFA-Bankia, Tighten Provisions
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-05-09T18:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/spain-set-to-tighten-provisions-on-healthy-property-loans-1-.html
Spain  plans to partly nationalize BFA-
Bankia group as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  tries to restore
investor confidence with his second overhaul of lenders in three
months, a government official said.  The government will become the largest shareholder in the
bank that has the biggest Spanish asset base, said the official,
who declined to be named because the plan hasn’t been announced.  It’s also working on a plan to force banks to set aside
more provisions on real estate loans that are still healthy,
said a person familiar with the situation, who also declined to
be identified. The rules, to be approved on May 11, will
increase provisions on the loans to about 30 percent from 7
percent, creating an additional buffer of about 30 billion euros
($39 billion), the person said.  An Economy Ministry spokeswoman declined to comment.  Rajoy, who said for the first time this week he may use
public money to shore up banks, is trying to restore trust in
the financial system without overburdening public finances.
 Bankia (BKIA)  group, which received its first bailout in 2010, is the
lender with most real estate on its books, making it key to
efforts to overhaul the system.  The premier today declined to answer a question on Bankia
at a press conference in Oporto,  Portugal , saying the government
will make decisions to strengthen lenders on “Friday and
before.”  Spanish bank shares plunged as investors considered the
impact of forcing lenders to add to 53.8 billion euros of
provisions and capital against real estate already ordered by
the government in February.  ‘Big Number’  “This is a big number, but no one can guarantee it will be
enough,” Inigo Lecubarri, who helps manage about $300 million
at Abaco Financials Fund in  London , said in a phone interview.  Rajoy said yesterday the Treasury is the only borrower in
Spain that has access to  capital markets  and the nation’s
sovereign borrowing costs are close to records. The yield
difference between Spanish and German bonds widened to 4.55
percentage points today, the most since November, and the cost
of insuring against a Spanish default rose to a record. Ten-year
bond yields exceeded 6 percent.  Bankia fell 5.8 percent as Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri, the
former second-in-command at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA,
became chairman of the lender after the board accepted the
resignation of  Rodrigo Rato . The nationalization plan may be
announced as soon as today, ABC newspaper reported earlier.  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP) , Spain’s fifth-biggest lender,
fell as much as 4.7 percent and  CaixaBank (CABK) , the fourth-biggest,
tumbled as much as 6.7 percent.  Raising the provisioning level for performing property
loans to 30 percent may force Popular into a 1.93 billion-euro
loss this year and cause a 1.44 billion-euro loss at CaixaBank,
Keefe, Bruyette and Woods Ltd. analysts  Antonio Ramirez  and
Marta Sanchez Romero said in a report. Bankia may lose 3.7
billion-euro loss, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  