-- Spain’s Stealth Devaluation Goes Unrewarded by Investors
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-05-09T11:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/spain-s-stealth-devaluation-goes-unrewarded-by-investors.html
Spain ’s booming exports and
productivity gains amount to a stealth devaluation that is
bolstering the nation’s chances of paying down  debt  even as it’s
gone unrewarded by investors.  The country’s exports rose 11 percent last year, more than
in France and the same pace as Germany, as labor costs fell and
the current account gap narrowed. That improvement may not be
reflected in 10-year bond yields, which rose today above 6
percent for the first time since April 27, leaving the
 difference  with German bunds of similar maturity at more than
400 basis points for a fifth week.  Spain’s economy is shifting in a way Economy Minister Luis de Guindos says mimics the currency devaluations used before
joining the euro to boost competitiveness. The risk is that
surging bond yields tip Spain into an international bailout
before investors become convinced it can restore growth, curb
the region’s highest jobless rate and stem the increase in debt.  “The problem with competitiveness may be overstated,”
said Olaf Penninga, who helps manage 150 billion euros ($195
billion), including Spanish debt, at Robeco Group in Rotterdam.
“It’s a positive and it’s not often mentioned, but it’s not
enough at the moment to make a difference.”  Bond Slide  So far concerns about public finances have overshadowed the
gains in competitiveness. Spanish bonds have fallen more than 4
percent since March 2 when Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said he
wouldn’t meet the previous government’s  deficit  target for 2012.
That was the second-biggest decline in the euro region after
 Greece .  The four-month-old government has taken additional measures
to deepen the shift toward exports, including making it easier
for companies to cut wages and renegotiate contracts. A  jobless
rate  of 24 percent, more than twice the European Union average,
is easing wage pressure. Unions and employers agreed to limit
salary increases this year to 0.5 percent, severing the link
with inflation and hooking 2014 wage deals to growth.  Spain plans to raise the so-called value-added tax next
year and reduce levies on hiring, Guindos said April 27,
shifting the burden of taxes onto domestic consumption and
reducing production costs.  “That is the closest thing to a devaluation,”  Gilles Moec , co-chief European economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London ,
said in a telephone interview.  Current Account  De Guindos says the economy has already undergone an
adjustment that looks similar to how the economy responded to
devaluations of the peseta, Spain’s currency until it joined the
euro a decade ago.  “In the past, we used to recover through a devaluation of
the peseta and there used to be a turning point when we started
to discount the recovery, which was the surplus of the current
account,” Guindos said during an April 26 interview in  Madrid .
“Now in Spain, without devaluation of the currency, we’ve
reached that point.”  The  current account  deficit, which was 10 percent of gross
domestic product at the height of the boom in 2007, will decline
to 0.9 percent this year and flip to a surplus in 2013, the
government forecasts. Productivity gains outpaced the euro-
region average in each of the three years through 2011, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development data show.  “Exports performed quite well last year, as a result of a
gain in competitiveness,” said Ricardo Santos, a European
economist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “Spain is around half
way” through the correction it needs to make in
competitiveness, he said.  Car Imports  Spain has a  trade surplus  with  France  and exports as much
as it imports from the euro region, government data for 2011
show. Spanish car imports fell 35 percent from 2007 to 2011 and
new registrations slumped 50 percent. Still, auto production
declined just 17 percent as exports replaced domestic buyers.  Exports of textiles, machinery and food are the highest on
record, government data show. Unit labor costs, which rose 4.8
percent in 2008 even as the economy went into a recession, fell
2.6 percent in 2010 and another 1.9 percent last year, Eurostat
data show.  “A recovery of economic growth in  euro zone  or European
Union members in the second half will do Spain lots of good for
sure because the most immediate growth driver we have are
exports,” European Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia 
said during an interview with radio Euskadi today.  Manufacturing Declines  After  Germany , Spain is the country whose contribution to
exports to non-EU countries increased the most from 2007 to
2011, according to World Trade Organization data.  To be sure,  industrial production  fell 7.5 percent from a
year earlier in March, the most in more than two years, and the
trade data may be buoyed by tourists visiting Spain instead of
cheaper destinations amid turmoil in the  Middle East .  At almost 6 percent, sovereign bond yields are squeezing
companies by pushing up financing costs, while banks are
reducing lending by the most on record as they seek to shield
themselves from bad loans and bolster capital ratios. If the
government doesn’t dispel concerns about bank losses from the
collapse of the real estate market, gains in exports won’t be
enough to win back investor confidence, Robeco’s Penninga said.  While Spain’s biggest companies, including Telefonica SA
and Inditex SA, were growing abroad before the crisis, smaller
firms have shifted their focus since the country slid into a
 recession  in 2008 from which it hasn’t recovered. In the decade-
long housing boom that fueled a consumption binge, the economy
grew almost 4 percent a year on average, led by domestic demand.  Wine Sales  Bodegas Riojanas SA (RIO) , a winery in La Rioja, saw exports
climb 37 percent last year and it aims to double the share of
foreign sales to as much as 25 percent in the two years through
2013, Chairman Luis Zapatero said in an interview.  Tecnicas Reunidas SA (TRE) , a Madrid-based engineering company
that had 23 percent of its order book in Spain and 7 percent in
 Latin America  in 2007, reduced its dependence on the domestic
market through 2011, with Latin America accounting for 34
percent of the backlog and Spain less than 1 percent.  Until recently, many Spanish companies didn’t try to
compete abroad, as they focused instead on surging domestic
demand, said Moec of Deutsche Bank.  “A large chunk of corporate Spain didn’t care about
exporting and why would you?” he said. “Suddenly they found
themselves without domestic demand and so they turned their eyes
to outside world and they’ve actually been quite good at it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  