-- Spain Underplaying Bank Losses Faces Ireland Fate
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2012-05-10T15:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/spain-underplaying-bank-losses-faces-ireland-fate.html
Spain  is underestimating potential
losses by its banks, ignoring the cost of souring residential
mortgages, as it seeks to avoid an international rescue like the
one Ireland needed to shore up its financial system.  The government has asked lenders to increase provisions for
bad debt by  54 billion euros  ($70 billion) to 166 billion euros.
That’s enough to cover losses of about 50 percent on loans to
property developers and construction firms, according to the
Bank of Spain. There wouldn’t be anything left for defaults on
more than 1.4 trillion euros of home loans and corporate debt.  Taking those into account, banks would need to increase
provisions by as much as five times what the government says, or
270 billion euros, according to estimates by the Centre for
European Policy Studies, a Brussels-based research group.
Plugging that hole would increase Spain’s  public debt  by almost
50 percent or force it to seek a bailout, following in the
footsteps of Ireland, Greece and  Portugal .  “How can you only talk about one type of real estate
lending when more and more loans are going bad everywhere in the
economy?” said Patrick Lee, a London-based analyst covering
Spanish banks for Royal Bank of  Canada . “Ireland managed to
turn its situation around after recognizing losses much more
aggressively and thus needed a bailout. I don’t see how Spain
can do it without outside support.”  Double-Dip Recession  Spain, which yesterday took over Bankia SA, the nation’s
third-largest lender, is mired in a double-dip recession that
has driven  unemployment  above 24 percent and government
borrowing costs to the highest level since the country adopted
the euro. Investors are concerned that the Mediterranean nation,
 Europe ’s fifth-largest economy with a banking system six times
bigger than Ireland’s, may be too big to save.  In both countries, loans to real estate developers proved
most toxic. Ireland funded a so-called bad bank to take much of
that debt off lenders’ books, forcing writedowns of 58 percent.
The government also required banks to raise capital to cover
what was left behind, assuming expected losses of 7 percent for
residential mortgages, 15 percent on the debt of small companies
and 4 percent on that of larger corporations.  Spain’s banks face bigger risks than the government has
acknowledged, even with lower default rates than Ireland
experienced. If losses reach 5 percent of mortgages held by
Spanish lenders, 8 percent of loans to small companies, 1.5
percent of those to larger firms and half the debt to
developers, the cost will be about 250 billion euros. That’s
three times the 86 billion euros Irish domestic banks bailed out
by their government have lost as real estate prices tumbled.  Bankia Loans  Moody’s Investors Service, a credit-ratings firm, said it
expects Spanish bank losses of as much as 306 billion euros. The
Centre for European Policy Studies said the figure could be as
high as 380 billion euros.  At the Bankia group, the lender formed in 2010 from a
merger of seven savings banks, about half the 38 billion euros
of real estate development loans held at the end of last year
were classified as “doubtful” or at risk of becoming so,
according to the company’s annual report. Bad loans across the
Valencia-based group, which has the biggest Spanish asset base,
reached 8.7 percent in December, and the firm renegotiated
almost 10 billion euros of assets in 2011, about 5 percent of
its loan book, to prevent them from defaulting.  The government, which came to power in December, announced
yesterday that it will take control of Bankia with a 45 percent
stake by converting 4.5 billion euros of preferred shares into
ordinary stock. The central bank said the lender needs to
present a stronger cleanup plan and “consider the contribution
of public funds” to help with that.  Rajoy Measures  The Bank of Spain has lost its prestige for failing to
supervise banks sufficiently, said Josep Duran i Lleida, leader
of Catalan party Convergencia i Unio, which often backs Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government. Governor Miguel Angel
Fernandez Ordonez doesn’t need to resign at this point because
his term expires in July, Duran said.  Rajoy has shied away from using public funds to shore up
the banks, after his predecessor injected 15 billion euros into
the financial system. He softened his position earlier this week
following a report by the  International Monetary Fund  that said
the country needs to clean up the balance sheets of “weak
institutions quickly and adequately” and may need to use
government funds to do so.  “The last thing I want to do is lend public money, as has
been done in the past, but if it were necessary to get the
credit to save the Spanish banking system, I wouldn’t renounce
that,” Rajoy told radio station Onda Cero on May 7.  Santander, BBVA  Rajoy said he would announce new measures to bolster
confidence in the banking system tomorrow, without giving
details. He might ask banks to boost provisions by 30 billion
euros, said a person with knowledge of the situation who asked
not to be identified because the decision hadn’t been announced.  Spain’s two largest lenders,  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , earn most of their income outside
the country and have assets in  Latin America  they can sell to
raise cash if they need to bolster capital. In addition to
Bankia, there are more than a dozen regional banks that are
almost exclusively domestic and have few assets outside the
country to sell to help plug losses.  In investor presentations, the  Bank of Spain  has said
provisions for bad debt would cover losses of between 53 percent
and 80 percent on loans for land, housing under construction and
finished developments. An additional 30 billion euros would
increase coverage to 56 percent of such loans, leaving nothing
to absorb losses on 650 billion euros of home mortgages held by
Spanish banks or 800 billion euros of company loans.  Housing Bubble  “Spain is constantly playing catch-up, so it’s always
several steps behind,” said Nicholas Spiro, managing director
of Spiro Sovereign Strategy, a consulting firm in  London 
specializing in sovereign-credit risk. “They should have gone
down the Irish route, bit the bullet and taken on the losses.
Every time they announce a small new measure, the goal posts
have already moved because of deterioration in the economy.”  Without aggressive writedowns, Spanish banks can’t access
market funding and the government can’t convince investors its
lenders can survive a contracting economy, said Benjamin Hesse,
who manages five financial-stock funds at  Fidelity Investments 
in  Boston , which has $1.6 trillion under management.  Spanish banks have “a 1.7 trillion-euro loan book, one of
the world’s largest, and they haven’t even started marking it,”
Hesse said. “The housing bubble was twice the size of the U.S.
in terms of peak prices versus 1990 prices. It’s huge. And
there’s no way out for Spain.”  Irish Losses  House prices  in Spain more than doubled in a decade and
have dropped 30 percent since the first quarter of 2008. U.S.
homes, which also doubled in value, have lost 35 percent.
Ireland’s have fallen 49 percent after quadrupling.  Ireland injected  63 billion euros  into its banks to
recapitalize them after shifting property-development loans to
the National Asset Management Agency, or NAMA, and requiring
other writedowns. That forced the country to seek 68 billion
euros in financial aid from the European Union and the IMF.  The losses of bailed-out domestic banks in Ireland have
reached 21 percent of their total loans. Spanish banks have
reserved for 6 percent of their lending books.  “The upfront loss recognition Ireland forced on the banks
helped build confidence,” said  Edward Parker , London-based head
of European sovereign-credit analysis at  Fitch Ratings . “In
contrast, Spain has had a constant trickle of bad news about its
banks, which doesn’t instill confidence.”  Mortgage Defaults  Spain’s home-loan defaults were 2.7 percent in December,
according to the Spanish mortgage association.  Home prices  are
propped up and default rates underreported because banks don’t
want to recognize losses, according to Borja Mateo, author of
“The Truth About the Spanish Real Estate Market.” Developers
are still building new houses around the country, even with 2
million vacant homes.  Ireland’s  mortgage-default  rate was about 7 percent in
2010, before the government pushed for writedowns, with an
additional 5 percent being restructured, according to the
Central Bank of Ireland. A year later, overdue and restructured
home loans reached 18 percent. At the typical 40 percent
recovery rate, Irish banks stand to lose 11 percent of their
mortgage portfolios, more than the 7 percent assumed by the
central bank in its stress tests. That has led to concern the
government may need to inject more capital into the lenders.  ‘The New Ireland’  Spain, like Ireland, can’t simply let its financial firms
fail. Ireland tried to stick banks’ creditors with losses and
was overruled by the EU, which said defaulting on senior debt
would raise the specter of contagion and spook investors away
from all European banks. Ireland did force subordinated
bondholders to take about 15 billion euros of losses.  The EU was protecting German and French banks, among the
biggest creditors to Irish lenders, said Marshall Auerback,
global portfolio strategist for Madison Street Partners LLC, a
Denver-based hedge fund.  “Spain will be the new Ireland,” Auerback said. “ Germany 
is forcing once again the socialization of its banks’ losses in
a periphery country and creating sovereign risk, just like it
did with Ireland.”  Spanish government officials and bank executives have
downplayed potential losses on home loans by pointing to the
difference between U.S. and  Spanish housing markets . In the
U.S., a lender’s only option when a borrower defaults is to
seize the house and settle for whatever it can get from a sale.
The borrower owes nothing more in this system, called non-
recourse lending.  ‘More Pressure’  In Spain, a bank can go after other assets of the borrower,
who remains on the hook for the debt no matter what the price of
the house when sold. Still, the same extended liability didn’t
stop the Irish from defaulting on home loans as the economy
contracted, incomes fell and unemployment rose to 14 percent.  “As the economy deteriorates, the quality of assets is
going to get worse,” said Daragh Quinn, an analyst at Nomura
International in  Madrid . “Corporate loans are probably going to
be a bigger worry than mortgages, but losses will keep rising.
Some of the larger banks, in particular BBVA and Santander, will
be able to generate enough profits to absorb this deterioration,
but other purely domestic ones could come under more pressure.”  Spain’s government has said it wants to find private-sector
solutions. Among those being considered are plans to let lenders
set up bad banks and to sell toxic assets to outside investors.  Correlation Risk  Those proposals won’t work because third-party investors
would require bigger discounts on real estate assets than banks
will be willing to offer, RBC’s Lee said.  Spanish banks face another risk, beyond souring loans: They
have been buying  government bonds  in recent months. Holdings of
Spanish sovereign debt by lenders based in the country jumped 32
percent to 231 billion euros in the four months ended in
February, data from Spain’s treasury show.  That increases the correlation of risk between banks and
the government. If Spain rescues its lenders, the public debt
increases, threatening the sovereign’s solvency. When  Greece 
restructured its debt, swapping bonds at a 50 percent discount,
Greek banks lost billions of euros and had to be recapitalized
by the state, which had to borrow more from the EU to do so.  In a scenario where Spain is forced to restructure its
debt, even a 20 percent discount could spell almost 50 billion
euros of additional losses for the country’s banks.  “Spain will have to turn to the EU for funds to solve its
banking problem,” said Madison Street’s Auerback. “But there’s
little money left after the other bailouts, so what will Spain
get? That’s what worries everybody.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yalman Onaran in  New York  at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  