-- Spanish Banks Erode Creditors With ECB Loans: Mortgages
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-05-10T13:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/spanish-banks-erode-creditors-with-ecb-loans-mortgages.html
Spain ’s lenders are pledging some of
their best assets to raise record levels of secured funding,
including from the  European Central Bank , eroding creditor
safeguards at the same time the government is planning the
country’s largest bank bailout.  Borrowing from the ECB rose 50 percent in March from the
prior month to 227.6 billion euros ($294.3 billion). Bankia
Group is among lenders that increased mortgage-backed debt
issuance by 35 percent since December 2007 to 535.1 billion
euros, or 53 percent of their real-estate loans, according to
Spanish Mortgage Association  data  at the end of 2011.  Rodrigo Rato , Bankia chairman, stepped down this week as part of a plan
in which the government is willing to inject public funds.  Spanish lenders are increasingly depending on the central
bank and secured debt sales to lower funding costs after their
return on equity in 2011 was the lowest in more than four
decades following the country’s real-estate crash. The ECB
provides loans at rates of 1 percent against collateral such as
covered bonds and mortgage-backed securities, which would be
used to repay the debt in an event of a default, leaving fewer
assets available to unsecured creditors, including depositors.  “Banks strongly relying on ECB funding and secured bonds
are actually subordinating other creditors in the event of a
bank insolvency, so recovery levels would be lower” said Helene Heberlein, managing director for covered bonds at  Fitch Ratings .
“The asset encumbrance is especially worrying from the point of
view of banking authorities,” when the “issuers are also
deposit-taking institutions.”  Return on Equity  The Spanish banking industry’s interest margin, or the
difference between what they earn on loans and the cost of
funding, fell about 20 percent since July 2007 to 0.86
percentage points at the end of last year, the lowest since at
least 1970 when the Bank of Spain started to compile the data.  Return on equity was negative at the end of 2011, the first
time since at least 1985, as  unemployment  soared above 20
percent to the highest rate in the euro region and provisions
against losses on real-estate debt rose.  The seven major banks, including  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  and Bankia Group, which was formed
in 2010 from a merger of seven savings banks to become the
country’s third-largest lender, will need 68 billion euros of
additional capital as a buffer against bad loans and to comply
with increasing regulatory requirements, according to a May 9
report from  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)   Additional Provisions  Spain’s government will make banks set aside more to cover
property loans that are still being paid to bolster confidence
in the financial industry. The rules, to be approved at a
Cabinet meeting tomorrow, may create additional provisions of
about 30 billion euros, said a person with knowledge of the
situation, who declined to be identified because the new rules
aren’t public.  Spanish 10-year bond yields rose above 6 percent yesterday,
boosting concern that borrowing costs may reach levels that
prompted bailouts for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal . Spain’s
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is fighting to rein in the euro-
region’s third-largest budget deficit and trying to shield
public finances from the cost of cleaning up the banks.  “Spanish banks had turned to secured funding via bonds or
ECB funding because it is the most optimal solution,” said
 Arturo Bris , professor of finance at Lausanne, Switzerland-based
business school IMD. “That is a social failure since it means
the ultimate risks for taxpayers could be big in a scenario of
an issuer failure.”  Unsecured Creditors  The perceived risk of being an unsecured creditor is higher
at firms that may be controlled by the government such as Bankia
Group. It had 38 billion euros of real-estate assets at the end
of 2011 and about half was classed as either “doubtful” or at
risk of becoming so, according to the group’s annual report.  Spain’s bank-bailout fund will take control of Bankia with
a 45 percent stake after nationalizing its parent, BFA. The
group’s new management must present “as soon as possible” a
strengthened cleanup plan and the lender should “consider the
contribution of public funds to accelerate and increase its
cleanup,” the regulator said.  Bankia fell as much as 3.8 percent to 2.05 euros, the
lowest since the stock started trading in July, as of 9:55 a.m.
in  Madrid . The Ibex 35 stock index rose as much as 2.1 percent
to 6,957.5 points.  Investors demand 312 basis points more to hold  Bankia SA (BKIA) ’s
500 million euros of 4.375 percent bonds due 2017 than covered
bonds sold by the lender with a similar maturity, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. That’s the widest spread since
Feb. 10, before the ECB carried out its second round of three-
year loans in a bid to avoid a credit crunch.  Santander, BBVA Spreads  The difference between Santander’s five-year-unsecured debt
and its covered bonds is 89 basis points. For BBVA, the gap is
62 basis points for debt due in about four years.  The cost to protect Santander’s debt against losses with
credit-default swaps fell 8 basis points today to 410 basis
points, after soaring from 232 on Feb. 7, according to data
compiled by CMA. That means it costs 410,000 euros annually to
protect 10 million euros of the debt for five years. Credit-
default swaps on BBVA fell 6 basis points to 441, and Bankia’s
tightened 9 to 743, CMA data show.  Covered bonds are first guaranteed by a bank, and then by
all its mortgage holdings in the event of a default. In
contrast, buyers of securitized debt rely exclusively on the
cash flows from a segregated pool of loans, so it doesn’t affect
recoveries for lenders’ unsecured creditors. The difference
between the two types of debt is diluted when banks retain their
own bonds to be used as collateral for ECB loans, since those
are obligations guaranteed by the lenders.  Rabobank Lending Willingness  Banks that encumber their balance sheets by tying up assets
as collateral for securities such as covered bonds or repos with
central banks have fewer available to meet claims if an
institution fails. Any move to limit secured debt issuance risks
hurting banks that have relied on record covered bond sales and
the 1 trillion euros of three-year loans that the ECB has pumped
into the system since December.  If asset encumbrance is “high it will automatically have
an impact on the willingness on our side to lend money on a
secured basis or unsecured basis, definitely,” said Rabobank
Groep Chief Financial Officer Bert Bruggink, whose bank is the
only non-government controlled European lender with top credit
ratings. “In Spain we see high levels” of asset encumbrance.  Protections are also being eroded for investors in 367.6
billion euros of Spanish mortgage covered bonds even as they’re
in a better position to recover from potential losses than
unsecured creditors.  Home Prices  Asking prices for homes in Spain have dropped about 30
percent since the first quarter of 2008, according to a survey
by real-estate website Fotocasa.es and IESE Business School. New
mortgages awarded are at the lowest level since at least 2004,
after total capital lent for all type of mortgages fell almost
50 percent from a year earlier, the government said April 24.  Under Spanish law, lenders can only issue covered bonds
against home loans with loan-to-value ratios of 80 percent or
less, or 60 percent if the loans are secured by other types of
properties. Outstanding covered bonds shouldn’t surpass 80
percent of banks’ eligible mortgages, and a lenders whole book
of mortgages can be called to repay the debt ahead of the rest
of the creditors.  Loan-to-Value  “The decline of  house prices  plus the negative net
production of mortgages mean that if banks are updating their
loan-to-value ratios they face shortages of eligible
collateral,” said Alexander Batchvarov, the London-based head
of structured finance research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
“We think the asset encumbrance could be a serious issue in
Spain.”  Santander and BBVA, the country’s two largest banks, have
increased issuance of covered bonds to 80 percent of their
eligible mortgages, the maximum allowed under the Spanish law.  Banco Santander  has 27.81 billion euros of outstanding
Spanish covered bonds, according to the  prospectus  of its 2
billion euros of 3.25 percent 2015 bonds due sold in February.
That’s up from 23.5 billion euros of the outstanding debt at the
end of 2010, according to an Oct. 18  prospectus  filed with the
Spanish market regulator.  BBVA had 44.7 billion euros of covered bonds at the end of
the year, according to the  company ’s website. They account for
49 percent of the total 85 billion euros of the lender’s
wholesale funding, more than other type of debt, according to a
company  presentation .  Incentive to Pledge  Bankia Group’s ability to increase mortgage covered bond
issuance declined almost 40 percent to 6.5 billion euros at the
end of 2011 down from 10.6 billion euros, a year earlier,
according to a May 4 report from the company. That compares with
20.3 billion euros of maturing debt this year, including 9
billion euros of bonds that have the backing of the Spanish
government.  The ECB applies a discount on top of the market valuation
of as low as one percentage point on a covered bond, compared
with at least 6.5 percentage points for an unsecured bank bond,
or 16 percent for asset-backed securities, according to the
 central bank . The so-called haircut can be increased when banks
pledge their own bonds.  “Banks in the euro region have the incentive to pledge
covered bonds more than any other type of bank debt due to the
lower haircuts the ECB applies to those instruments,” Jose De Leon, a Madrid-based analyst at Moody’s Investors Service said
in a telephone interview. “That is prompting Spanish banks to
issue, in some cases, close to the legal limits, which in
practical terms means the erosion of protection for the covered
bond investors, and for the rest of creditors including
depositors and unsecured bondholders.”  U.S. Subprime Collapse  Banks are also using their holdings of mortgage-backed
securities for central bank loans after investor demand for debt
pooling Spanish assets disappeared in 2007 following the
collapse of the U.S. subprime-mortgage market that froze credit
markets globally.  The  Bank of Spain  values senior bonds backed by residential
mortgages issued by Madrid RMBS IV, created in 2007 by  Caja
Madrid , the largest lender integrated into Bankia, at 59.7 cents
on the euro. That means the securities would yield 11.9
percentage points more than the euro interbank offered rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on the repayment
rate of the underlying mortgages in the last three months.  That compares with 90.9 cents net on the euro that the Bank
of Spain is willing to provide against Bankia’s 1.6 billion
euros of mortgage covered bonds due 2019. The central bank
valuation implies a spread of about 453 basis points more than
the asset swaps rate, according to Bloomberg data.  Incentive to Pledge  Spanish banks have 167.5 billion euros of outstanding
mortgage-backed securities, according to Spanish Mortgage
Association data at the end of the year. Lenders in the country,
which stopped selling the debt in 2007, had retained about 145
billion euros of the debt, which mostly are being used to build
their reserves of assets potentially accepted by ECB as
collateral to raise loans, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM) 
data.  Investors demand 565 basis points above the euro interbank
offered rate, or euribor, to buy a senior bond backed by Spanish
home loans compared with 25 basis points in July 2007, according
JPMorgan Chase & Co. data. That’s four times the spread for
comparable debt backed by British home loans.  Mortgages are considered better collateral than other types
of loans as arrears typically are lower than the average, and
recovery levels in a default are higher than for consumer loans.  Spanish banks’ non-performing loans as a proportion of
total lending increased ten-fold since June 2007 to 7.8 percent
at the end of last year, according to  data compiled  by the
Spanish Mortgage Association. That compares with a six-fold
increase to 2.7 percent for home loans, which account for 60
percent of collateral backing Spanish mortgage covered bond
programs, according to Moody’s data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 