-- Spar Margins to Remain Under Pressure, Finance Director Says
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-05-09T11:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/spar-margins-to-remain-under-pressure-finance-director-says.html
The Spar Group Ltd. (SPP)  Financial Director
Mark Godfrey made the following comments in an interview from
Durban today. The South African food and liquor retailer
reported a 9.3 percent increase in profit to 523.8 million rand
($66 million) in the fiscal first half through March as higher
prices countered slower  consumer spending .  On margin pressure:  “Margins are going to remain under pressure.  ‘‘We are not being forced to give away margin, we are doing
it to remain competitive.  ‘‘It’s not like we expect margins to fall by 0.1 percent
every six months. We will aim to keep margins as close to 8
percent as we can.  ‘‘All the retailers are out there fighting hard.’’  On higher costs:  ‘‘We bought 10 retail stores last year and that has pushed
Spar’s total operating expenses, which went up by 11.5 percent.
Comparable costs were up 9.9 percent, which was affected by a
strike in September that took six weeks to resolve, and by fuel
cost increases. The strike, which cost about 12 million rand,
was the first in the 12 years I’ve worked for the company and we
don’t see that being repeated.  ‘‘We do try and keep our cost increases in line with
inflation, so the 9.9 percent increase was a percent or two
above that.’’  On Spar owning more retail stores:  ‘‘We firmly believe in our model of independent retailers
as being the best way forward and remain committed to that. But
we may see Spar taking more in.  ‘‘The retail division may remain a business need, where we
buy a struggling existing Spar retailer, turn it around and then
aim to sell it on. It allows us to help a struggling business
and run it in a professional manner.  ‘‘We currently own about 11 and I expect that number will
remain around a dozen or so.’’  On expansion in  Africa :  ‘‘We are already very connected with stores being run in
the  Southern African Development Community  and do business with
neighboring African countries.  ‘‘The question we’ve been asking is how we expand into the
rest of Africa. What model to do we take? It’s not as simple for
us as for other retailers in that we don’t typically just buy
real estate and open stores.  ‘‘But we are definitely looking at Africa and exploring
options.  ‘‘In  South Africa , our expansion is on track and there are
definitely options.  On second-half outlook:  ‘‘My concern is what is going to happen to the South
African consumer? The recent spate of fuel price increases may
put a dampener on spending. The pressure on the consumer may be
mounting. That being said, it’s comforting to know that the
consumer has to eat, so we are in a slightly better position
than some other retailers.  ‘‘I had thought we would see inflation increasing, but
there is some evidence that food prices may soften.  ‘‘Margins will probably remain under pressure, but our
pretax profit in the second half is likely to be similar to what
we saw in the first half.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  