-- Standard Chartered, IFC Introduce Pan-African Bond Program
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-05-09T11:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/standard-chartered-ifc-introduce-pan-african-bond-program-1-.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and the
International Finance Corp., a unit of the  World Bank ,
introduced a bond-issuance program to finance local-currency
loans for African businesses.  The pan-African medium-term note program will initially
focus on Botswana, Ghana, Kenya,  South Africa , Uganda and
Zambia, the lenders said at a media briefing in Johannesburg
today. An existing IFC bond-sale schedule in Ghana will be
included in the pan-African program if the government in that
country approves, Jingdong Hua, vice president and treasurer at
the IFC, said at a media briefing in Johannesburg today.  “We have been working with our partners in government and
central banks for several years to strengthen debt markets in
Africa,” said Thierry Tanoh, vice president for sub-Saharan
 Africa  at the IFC. “The program will provide us with funds that
we can invest in business and support key areas like
infrastructure.”  The IFC hopes to receive approval from governments and
regulators in targeted countries to sell bonds within six months
and will look for market opportunities after that, Hua said. By
issuing bonds in local currency, domestic borrowers and lenders
won’t be exposed to currency risk, while foreign investors who
are “comfortable” with the IFC’s reputation may also invest to
gain currency exposure, Hua said.  Africa Growth Story  “It will enable international investors to participate in
the African growth story,” Richard Etemesi, said chief
executive officer of  Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Ltd. (SCBL)  and
general manager for East Africa.  Sub-Saharan Africa will expand 5.4 percent this year, the
fastest-growing region after developing Asian nations, the
 International Monetary Fund  said April 1.  The IFC plans to sell 10- and 15-year bonds in Ghana this
year, the West African nation’s central bank said Jan. 12. It
aims to raise 1 billion cedis ($533 million) within five years
and 2 billion cedis within 10 years, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ana Monteiro at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net  