-- Stocks in Switzerland Retreat to Lowest Level This Year
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-05-09T16:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/stocks-in-switzerland-retreat-to-lowest-level-this-year.html
Swiss stocks  dropped for a fifth day,
erasing this year’s advance, as investors waited for a
resolution to the political impasse in Greece and the cost of
insuring against a Spanish default surged to a record.  Health-care companies led losses, with  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  and
 Novartis AG (NOVN) , retreating at least 0.9 percent.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the
world’s second-largest cement maker, decreased 1.6 percent as
first-quarter profit missed analysts’ estimates.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  lost 0.7 percent to 5,936.13 at the
close in Zurich. The gauge has fallen to its lowest level since
Dec. 29 as Greeks voted for parties opposed to austerity
measures on May 6 and their political leaders failed to reach an
agreement on forming a new government. The Swiss Performance
Index also retreated 0.7 percent today.  “It barely seems possible to form a government coalition
which is for or against the austerity measures,” Christian Schmidt, a technical analyst for equities at Helaba Landesbank
Hessen-Thueringen in  Frankfurt , wrote in a report today. “The
political vacuum in Greece is not conducive to building
confidence. Worries are justified that further financial aid
will be frozen and the country will become insolvent.”  The SMI dropped 1 percent yesterday after Antonis Samaras,
the leader of Greece’s biggest political party, passed the
mandate of forming a new government to Alexis Tsipras, the
leader of the left-wing Syriza coalition, which came second in
last weekend’s election.  Tsipras, who opposes the austerity measures required for
the nation’s financial rescue, demanded that Samaras and the
leader of the third-placed Pasok party renounce their support
for the European Union-led bailout of Greece.  Increased Volume  The combined volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed
companies today was 36 percent more than the average of the last
30 days, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The cost of insuring against a Spanish default surged to a
record, credit-default swaps prices show, and the country’s
benchmark 10-year bonds fell, pushing the yield above 6 percent
for the first time since April 27.  Actelion, Switzerland’s biggest biotechnology company, fell
2 percent to 37.69 Swiss francs as a gauge of health-care
companies in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  dropped for a fourth
day. Novartis AG slipped 0.9 percent to 49.42 francs and  Nobel
Biocare Holding AG (NOBN)  declined 3.7 percent to 10.05 francs.  Sonova
Holding AG (SOON)  slid 1.4 percent to 96.80 francs.  Holcim dropped 1.6 percent to 54.20 francs after the
company posted net income for the first quarter of 10 million
francs ($838 million).  Analysts had predicted  23 million francs.
Holcim said it will outline cost-cutting plans next week that
will “significantly” improve operating profit.  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN) , Switzerland’s largest life insurer,
slumped 4.1 percent to 85.80 francs, extending yesterday’s 2.7
percent drop. Morgan Stanley cut its price estimate for the
stock to 110 francs from 115 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  