-- Indonesia Rescuers Reach Crashed Russia-Made Plane
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-05-10T10:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/sukhoi-superjet-disappears-during-indonesia-demo-flight.html
Indonesian rescuers reached a
Russian-made Sukhoi SuperJet 100 that crashed on a remote
mountainside yesterday during a promotional flight. There were
no signs of survivors among the 45 people onboard.  Authorities will start airlifting the crash victims back to
Halim Perdana airport this afternoon, once a helicopter landing
site is cleared, Gagah Prakoso, a spokesman for the National
Search and Rescue Agency, said at the airport today. About 600
people, including military and police, have been deployed in the
search since late yesterday, he said.  The aircraft’s black box is yet to be found and the plane
was probably not transmitting signals when it crashed, Prakoso
said. The plane disappeared off radar yesterday about 20 minutes
after takeoff, while carrying reporters and potential customers.  Russia opened a criminal probe into the crash, Interfax
said, citing the country’s Investigative Committee. Prime
Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  also ordered an investigation by the
Industry Ministry, Foreign Ministry and state-controlled
planemaker United Aircraft Corp. The SuperJet is spearheading
attempts to revive Russia’s aerospace industry, which has
languished since the  Soviet Union  collapsed in 1991.  The wreckage is about 5,800 feet up Mount Salak in West
Java, Daryatmo, the head of  Indonesia ’s search and rescue
agency, said earlier today. The crash site is about six hours’
walk from the agency’s command post in Cidahu, he said.  The SuperJet disappeared after the crew asked air-traffic
control for permission to descend to 6,000 feet from 10,000
feet, he said. The pilots didn’t explain the change of course.
The weather was slightly rainy and there were no obvious signs
of trouble, he said.  Sales Tour  The plane was on an Asian sales tour, which had included
stops in Myanmar, Pakistan and  Kazakhstan . Further appearances
were planned in Laos and  Vietnam , Olga Kayukova, a spokeswoman
for Sukhoi owner United Aircraft, said by phone yesterday. The
planemaker also intended to send staff to Indonesia to support
rescue and investigation efforts.  The twin-engine regional jet, which can carry about 100
people, was developed with  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ’s Alenia Aeronautica
SpA. It has an operating range of as much as 4,578 kilometers
(2,845 miles). The aircraft is a challenger to regional jets
built by  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  and  Embraer SA. (EMBR3) , as well as to models
being developed by Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China and
Mitsubishi Aircraft Corp.  Pre-Flight Checks  Sukhoi said the jet had gone through a full pre-flight
check and displayed the “proper technical condition.” There
also hadn’t been any problems during an earlier flight the same
day, it said in a statement on its website.  The jet was commanded by a “very experienced crew”
consisting of Chief Test Pilot Alexander Yablontsev and co-pilot
Alexander Kochetkov, it said.  Russia ’s aviation industry has sought to overcome the image
of outdated aircraft prone to accidents. The country suffered 99
deaths after five jetliner accidents through late September last
year, according to the most recent figures available from
researcher Ascend Worldwide Ltd.  Following an accident last year when a plane carrying the
Lokomotiv Yaroslavl hockey team failed to gain altitude,
Medvedev, who was then president, said Russia might turn to
foreign aircraft producers to ensure safety of  air travel .  Russia’s Aging Fleet  The age of Russia’s domestically manufactured single-aisle
aircraft fleet is between 25 years and 30 years, while the U.S.
fleet averages about 13 years, according to figures published
late last year by Ascend, a London-based aviation consultant.  Development (EASTW)  and  capital costs  for the SuperJet were about
$1 billion, according to Fairfax, Virginia-based Teal Group,
with another $1 billion for the engines and customer support.
The list price is $28 million. The plane had 170 orders in
total, according to Teal. Sukhoi itself has not disclosed order
numbers.  Customers include  Armenia ’s Armavia and Russia’s flagship
airline OAO Aeroflot, and the eight aircraft in service for two
carriers have accumulated more than 3,500 flights. PT Sky
Aviation, an Indonesian carrier, has ordered 12.  The plane, which seats five abreast, uses engines built by
PowerJet, a venture between Snecma, a unit of  Safran SA (SAF) , and NPO
Saturn. Safran’s Messier-Dowty unit also provides the integrated
landing gear system, with B/E Aerospace providing the doors.
Italy’s Avio provides the gearbox for the propulsion systems and
Safran’s Aircelle unit provides the engine nacelles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  