-- Swedish Banks Pummel EU Peers Wallowing in Laxer Rules
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-05-10T10:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/swedish-banks-pummel-eu-peers-wallowing-in-laxer-rules.html
Far from languishing under stricter
capital rules,  Swedish banks  are thriving.  Lenders in the largest Nordic economy are proof that
creating bigger buffers to balance risky assets doesn’t have to
erode profits or lending. Sweden’s four biggest banks, which
must meet a 10 percent minimum capital requirement by January,
all beat analysts’ profit estimates for the first quarter and
raised their lending volumes.  “They showed strong levels of capital generation; core
Tier 1 ratios keep inching up, while a lot of euro-zone banks
wallow around trying to make 9 percent,” Nick Davey, a London-
based analyst at  UBS AG (UBSN) , said in a phone interview. “The Nordic
banks are still showing low single-digit loan growth and the
Swedish retail banks have wider overall group margins despite
lower  interest rates .”   Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) , Sweden’s second-biggest bank by
market value after  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , is Europe’s strongest lender,
according to a Bloomberg Markets ranking published May 3.
Swedish bank shares have outperformed a  Bloomberg benchmark
index  of European rivals this year and  credit derivatives  show
they’re among the world’s safest. The outperformance suggests
capital rules alone don’t stifle competitiveness, contrary to
what bank executives including  Oswald Gruebel , the former head
of UBS AG, and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s departing chief executive
Josef Ackermann have argued.  Virtuous Cycle  “It’s a virtuous cycle with responsible, sustainable
lending, leading to higher quality sustainable profits for
shareholders and stronger economies that can withstand economic
downturns better,” Satish Pulle, a portfolio manager at London-
based European Credit Management Ltd., said in an interview.
“The Swedish banks are prime examples of this.”  Handelsbanken, Nordea, SEB AB and  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  need to reach
core Tier 1 capital ratios -- a measure of financial strength --
of 10 percent of their risk-weighted assets by January, the
government said in November. The ratio will rise to 12 percent
by 2015. That compares with the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision ’s core capital target of at least 7 percent, due to
take effect by 2019. The European Banking Authority has set a
temporary 9 percent target for some lenders.  Swedbank shares gained as much as 1.7 percent today before
trading at 107.80 kronor as of 11:53 a.m. in Stockholm. SEB rose
as much as 1.1 percent, Nordea as much as 1 percent and
Handelsbanken as much as 0.8 percent.  Steer Clear  Banks in AAA rated Sweden, which suffered losses through
their Baltic units when the former Soviet region’s housing
bubble burst in 2008, have managed to steer clear of the worst
of Europe’s debt crisis and didn’t need to draw on the more-than
$1 trillion in three-year loans offered by the  European Central
Bank  since December. Nordea Chief Executive Officer  Christian Clausen  said investors have signaled they want his bank to
maintain access to market funding instead of relying on
subsidized loans, in a March interview.  As of yesterday, Handelsbanken  shares had risen  21 percent
this year, Nordea 7.1 percent, Swedbank 21 percent and SEB 8.2
percent, compared with a 1.4 percent loss in the 43-member
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index.  While Swedish banks have increased loans to clients, ECB
liquidity has failed to boost euro-area bank lending. Loans to
non-financial companies in the single-currency bloc fell 0.17
percent in April, according to ECB data. The region’s economy
will contract 0.3 percent this year, the European Commission
said in February.  Sweden ’s gross domestic product will grow 0.4
percent, the government and central bank estimate.  Deleveraging Plans  “A lot of European peers will be focusing on capital
plans,” Davey said. “The Nordics are firmly ahead. Many
European banks will now be out outlining deleveraging plans as
part of that capital build, while Swedish banks are showing
positive loan growth.”  Banks in the rest of Europe are retrenching as they face
higher funding costs, in part as Moody’s Investors Services
looks into cutting the ratings of as many as 114 European
lenders. Of the five Swedish banks on that list, the lowest
long-term rating is A3 and the highest Aa2, two levels below
Moody’s top grade. All the ratings carry stable outlooks.  Moody’s is reviewing the credit profiles of 24 banks in
Italy and 21 in Spain, where ratings now range from as low as
junk to Aa3. Most of those ratings carry negative outlooks.  ‘Life Support’  “The continental European banks continue to be on life
support by the ECB and the national governments,” Lex Van Dam,
who manages $500 million at Hampstead Capital LLC in  London ,
said in an interview. “The investor base is getting smaller and
smaller as it is very hard to justify investing in a sector
where capital dilutions could happen at any point and which are
based in countries with serious growth concerns.”  European banks struggled to boost earnings last quarter.
Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest lender, saw its shares tumble
the most in almost four months after profit fell 33 percent,
missing analysts’ estimates. Spain said this week it would take
over Bankia SA and prepared to inject public funds into the
banking group with the most Spanish real estate as part of
government efforts to bolster confidence in the country’s
lenders.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,
 France ’s biggest banks, face higher taxes and may have to split
off some of their riskiest operations after  Francois Hollande 
was elected president. Hollande, who called the financial
industry his “greatest adversary” during the campaign, had
pledged to force banks to split retail and speculative
operations, impose a tax on all transactions and increase the
levy on bank profit by 15 percent.  Borg’s Way  While Finance Minister  Anders Borg  has rejected calls for a
financial transactions tax and doesn’t want banks to split their
deposit-taking divisions from investment operations, he has
signaled he won’t compromise on Sweden’s goal to impose tougher
capital rules than elsewhere in  Europe . His stance puts him at
loggerheads with nations such as France, which has argued
against granting national freedoms to impose stricter rules than
those set in the rest of the union.  “I will not be ready to give up any of the major interests
of our country,” Borg said in an interview last month. “I am
not willing to compromise on the core principles that we have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 