-- Symrise Raises 2012 Sales Goal After Beating Profit Predictions
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-05-09T06:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/symrise-raises-2012-sales-goal-after-beating-profit-predictions.html
Symrise AG (SY1) , the fourth-largest flavor
and fragrance maker, raised targets for full-year sales after
posting first-quarter profit that beat analyst estimates.  Revenue may increase by 3 percent to 5 percent, the
Holzminden, Germany-based company said today in a statement.
That compares with a previous prediction of 2 percent to 4
percent. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization rose 2 percent to 87 million euros ($113 million),
exceeding the 84.9 million-euro average of 10 analyst  estimates .  Chief Executive Officer Heinz-Juergen Bertram has pushed
through price increases to combat rising costs for oil and
energy, defending a 20 percent profit margin. The company has
shielded itself from some higher costs by expanding its own
production of methanol and ingredients for medical nutrition.  “The increase of the sales guidance comes as a positive
surprise and may require upwards revisions of consensus,”
Thomas Maul, an analyst at DZ Bank AG in Frankfurt, said in a
note to clients. Maul  recommends  clients buy the stock.  First-quarter sales rose 3.8 percent from a year earlier to
432.6 million euros, beating the 429.9 million-euro average
estimate. Net income gained 3.3 percent to 42.5 million euros.  “After the subdued development at the beginning of this
year, the market environment improved faster than originally
anticipated,” Bertram said in the statement.  Symrise is increasing the business it does with
international food and consumer-goods companies. Sales to the 10
biggest customers increased faster than total growth, generating
almost a third of revenue, it said today.  Unlike competitors, Symrise has its own production for key
ingredients including citrus and mint flavors, onion oil and
vanilla, which complements its purchasing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in  Frankfurt  at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  