-- U.K. Stocks Decline for a Third Day as RBS, Lloyds Tumble
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-05-09T15:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/u-k-stocks-drop-for-a-third-day-sage-falls-itv-rises.html
U.K. stocks  slid for a third day as
investors waited to see whether  Greece ’s politicians will form a
government of parties that reject the terms of the country’s
European Union-led bailout.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY)  led losses, each sliding at least 3.5 percent.  ITV Plc (ITV) 
advanced 2.2 percent as the second-biggest listed British
broadcaster predicted its revenue from advertising will beat the
average of its peers in the first half.  The benchmark FTSE 100 Index retreated 0.4 percent to
5,530.05 at the close in  London , paring a drop of as much as 1.6
percent in the final hour of trading. The gauge has  declined 0.8
percent  this year. The FTSE All-Share Index slid 0.5 percent
today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index fell less than 0.1 percent.  “Stocks are squeezed by the Greek impasse as no one seems
to be able to form a government, which may bring about a new
election in a few weeks,” said Jakup Petur Baerentsen, chief
equity adviser at Nordea Private Bank in Copenhagen. “The
absence of real news makes earnings reports the driver in
today’s market.”  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  dropped 0.8 percent yesterday to erase this
year’s gains after Antonis Samaras, the leader of Greece’s
biggest political party, failed to reach an agreement on a new
government and the mandate passed to Alexis Tsipras, the leader
of the left-wing Syriza coalition, which came second.  Tsipras, who opposes the austerity measures required for
the nation’s financial rescue, demanded that Samaras and the
leader of the third-placed Pasok party renounce their support
for the EU-led bailout of Greece.  RBS, Lloyds Fall  U.K. stocks pared losses in the final hour of trading as
German Chancellor Angel Merkel was reported as saying that she
wants to keep Greece in the euro area.  RBS and Lloyds slid 3.5 percent to 22.63 pence and 3.8
percent to 29.91 pence, respectively. A gauge of European
lenders dropped the most of the 19 industry groups in the  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  as Spanish 10-year  government bonds  fell,
pushing the yield on the securities above 6 percent for the
first time since April 27.  SABMiller Plc, the world’s second-largest brewer, declined
0.6 percent to 2,484.5 pence after Danish brewer Carlsberg A/S
reported a higher share of the market in  Russia , where it
competes with SABMiller.  BP, Shell Retreat  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe’s two biggest oil
producers , declined 1.5 percent to 404 pence and 0.6 percent to
2,047 pence for the biggest contributions to the FTSE 100’s
slide. Oil fell for a sixth day for its longest losing streak in
almost two years.  Sage Group Plc (SGE) , the U.K.’s largest software maker, sank 5.5
percent to 263 pence, its lowest price since November, after
first-half sales and pretax profit missed analysts’ estimates.  ITV rose 2.2 percent to 82.5 pence after Chief Executive
Officer Adam Crozier said “we expect to outperform the TV ad
market in the first half and for the year as a whole.”  The volume of shares changing hands on the FTSE 100 was 14
percent higher than the average of the last 30 days, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  