-- U.K. State Workers Strike; Heathrow Not Expecting Delays
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2012-05-10T17:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/u-k-state-workers-strike-heathrow-not-expecting-delays.html
Tens of thousands of U.K. public-
sector workers including immigration officials and college
lecturers went on strike today to protest government plans to
curb their pensions.  Unions said as many as 400,000 people took part in the
walkout. That claim was disputed by the government, which put
the figure at close to 150,000 and branded the strike
“futile.”  The protest came after the government confirmed yesterday
it will make state employees work longer and contribute more to
their pension plans. It was joined by thousands of off-duty
police officers, who marched through central  London  to warn that
job cuts are putting public safety at risk.  “The government refuses to accept that their pension
robbery is deeply unpopular,”  Mark Serwotka , general secretary
of the Public and Commercial Services Union, said in a
statement. He urged the government to begin “meaningful
negotiations.”  Today’s strike over pensions was the third in six months
and union leaders have warned that protests will continue this
year. The last walkout, on Nov. 30, drew 2 million strikers,
according to unions, and 900,000 according to the government.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s  Conservative Party  and its
Liberal Democrat coalition partners suffered losses in local
elections last week in a backlash against austerity measures
aimed at tackling the  budget deficit .  Cabinet Office minister Francis Maude condemned today’s
walkout, saying most staff on low and middle incomes will be no
worse off under the government’s proposals and many will do
better.  ‘Futile Strike’  “The dedicated majority of public-sector workers are
working normally today and rigorous contingency plans are
ensuring that nearly all key public services remain open as
usual,” he said in an e-mailed statement. “Nevertheless, it is
very disappointing that a handful of unions insist on carrying
on with futile  strike action  which will benefit no one.”  He said that 102,244 civil servants went on strike, down
from 146,000 in November. The PCS union said that estimate was
“wildly inaccurate” and that the figure was well over 200,000.  The government said there had been no delays at borders
including London’s Heathrow and Gatwick airports. Tax office
call centers stayed open, only a handful of Jobcenters closed
and court cases affected by the strike were diverted to other
courts, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  