-- U.K. to Pursue Electricity-Market Law to Boost Low-Carbon Plants
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-05-09T10:39:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/u-k-to-pursue-electricity-market-law-to-boost-low-carbon-plants.html
The U.K. plans to overhaul its
 electricity market  as the government seeks to prevent spikes in
natural-gas prices and spur investment in lower-emitting
technologies.  “My government will propose reform of the electricity
market to deliver clean and affordable energy,”  Queen Elizabeth
II  said today. The speech by the reigning British monarch sets
out the government’s legislative agenda for the year and marks
the start of the next session of Parliament.  The  Electricity Market Reform  bill will include long-term
contracts that give power producers guarantees to help them
attract finance for offshore  wind turbines , nuclear reactors and
carbon-capture and storage projects. British utilities need to
spend as much as 110 billion pounds ($177 billion) to replace
aging power plants and upgrade transmission networks by 2020,
the government has said.  The U.K. plans to build 18,000 megawatts of offshore wind
power and two new reactors by the end of the decade, while
replacing current generation and upgrading the grid. About half 
its coal-fed plants are due to close by 2016 and all its nuclear 
stations are scheduled to shut by 2035. The U.K. gets about 20 
percent of its power from 10 atomic plants. All but one reactor 
are owned by  Electricite de France SA  and  Centrica Plc. (CNA)   Power Prices  U.K. power prices may jump 66 percent by 2020 as fossil-
fueled stations close and carbon policy raises generation costs,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  Power prices may increase to 83 pounds a megawatt-hour by
2020 from about 50 pounds this year, Mark Freshney, an analyst
at Credit Suisse in  London , said in a report yesterday.  “We’re not in danger of capacity shortages in the next two
to three years,”  Tim Yeo , a Conservative lawmaker and chairman
of the cross-party Energy and Climate Change Committee, said in
an interview last week. “The problem comes in the 20-teens if
we haven’t started building.”  The bill will also propose the creation of a capacity
market, which would reward companies for running plants to back
up intermittent wind generation. Other measures include adopting
a nationwide emissions-performance standard and setting out
strategic priorities for the  energy industry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  