-- U.K. Plans Water Law to Spur Competition, Investment
-- B y   R e e d   L a n d b e r g
-- 2012-05-09T17:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/u-k-plans-water-law-to-spur-competition-investment.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
administration promised draft legislation this year that would
spur competition in the water industry and encourage investment
needed to keep supplies flowing as the U.K. climate becomes
drier.  The rules would give the country’s water regulator Ofwat
new powers over the industry and make it easier for businesses
and public sector bodies to switch water and sewer suppliers,
according to documents released by the government today. It
would also increase opportunities for companies to invest in the
industry and unlock supplies for periods of drought.  Britain’s water utilities, which were sold to investors 23
years ago, are struggling to boost investments needed to prevent
leaks and clean up the environment as demand for water
increases. The Institution of Civil Engineers, which advises
companies about the industry, said the government is moving too
slowly.  “We urgently need to address the growing gap between our
water supply and demand, as highlighted by the current droughts,
and it cannot be done without firm action and commitment from
government,” Nick Baveystock, director general of the
organization, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Today’s plan, confirmed by  Queen Elizabeth II  as she read
out the government’s legislative agenda for the year ahead,
affirmed proposals published in a government consultation paper
issued in December.  That document put forward an “evolutionary approach” for
reforming the industry, including another consultation in 2013
and legislation after the next election, which must be held by
2015. Full reforms would be in place “by the mid to late
2020s,” according to the December document.  Legislation Plan  Today, the government said the draft legislation would
outline measures to improve environmental permitting
regulations, extending them from pollution prevention toward the
ability of companies and individuals to draw water from lakes
and rivers, which is known as “abstraction” rights.  The current system governing abstraction was set up in the
1960s to balance competing human needs rather than to protect
the environment.  The government expects droughts to become more frequent in
the coming decades and has imposed a ban on watering with hoses
in parts of the southeast after two dry winters prevented
underground aquifers from refilling.  The bill is aimed at allowing businesses to get more
competitive prices for water and sewer services and to improve
the industry’s efficiency. The government estimates 90 billion
pounds ($145 billion) has been invested in the water industry
since it was privatized, creating companies such as Thames Water
Ltd., Severn Trent Plc, and  United Utilities Plc. (UU/)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Reed Landberg in  London  at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling in Paris at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 