-- U.S. Stocks Trim Losses on Report Greece Will Get Rescue Payment
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-09T17:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/u-s-stocks-trim-losses-on-report-greece-will-get-rescue-payment.html
U.S. stocks  trimmed losses  following a
report that  Europe ’s bailout fund will pay the next installment
of aid to  Greece , easing concern that the nation won’t qualify
for rescue funds after electing political leaders opposed to
austerity measures.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.2 percent to
1,361.29 at 1:45 p.m. in New York, paring losses after Reuters
reported that the European Financial Stability Facility will pay
the 5.2 billion euro tranche of aid.  “We could see the U.S. market do better with some positive
developments in Europe,” said  Peter Jankovskis , who helps
manage about $2.9 billion at Oakbrook Investments in Lisle,
 Illinois , said in a telephone interview. “Corporate earnings
have continued to be good. There’s reason to be encouraged about
American stocks.”  Earlier losses, which sent the  S&P 500  down as much as 1.5
percent, were triggered by concern Greece’s bailout is
unraveling as the nation struggles to form a coalition
government. Weekend elections resulted in a parliament divided
over whether to implement austerity measures needed to qualify
for rescue funds. Concern about Europe’s debt crisis helped
drive the S&P 500 down almost 3 percent so far in May.  Some investors also said the market trimmed losses as the
S&P 500 traded near 1,350, a so-called support level for
traders. Peter Jankovskis, at Oakbrook Investments, said that
there are reasons to be encouraged about the U.S. market as
earnings grow. About 70 percent of S&P 500 companies that
reported results since the start of the earnings season have
topped projections, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We could see the U.S. market resume its rally with some
positive developments in Europe,” said Jankovskis, who helps
manage $2.9 billion in Lisle, Illinois. “While people are
relieved that Merkel has expressed an interest in keeping Greece
in the euro, nobody is saying that they are going to let Greece
have the money and do what they wish. That’s a positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  