-- U.S. March Wholesale Inventories Rise 0.3%, Sales Climb 0.5%
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-05-09T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/u-s-march-wholesale-inventories-rise-0-3-sales-climb-0-5-.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers rose in
March at the slowest pace in four months as companies kept their
stockpiles in line with demand.  The 0.3 percent gain in  stockpiles , which was less than the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, followed a 0.9
percent increase in February, the Commerce Department reported
today in  Washington . Sales climbed 0.5 percent in March after
rising 1.1 percent a month earlier.  As the U.S. expansion cools, inventory accumulation may slow
with it after stockpiles helped boost fourth-quarter economic
growth to the fastest pace in more than a year. Wholesalers had
enough goods on hand to last 1.17 months at the current sales
pace, the same as in February, the report showed.  “Firms are in a pretty decent shape on their inventories,”
 Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said before the report. “Firms are just
being very cautious. I don’t think there’s a lot of visibility
on demand going forward, so firms are not willing to assume
strong demand six or nine or twelve months out.  The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 28
economists called for a 0.6 percent gain. Forecasts ranged from
increases of 0.4 percent to 0.9 percent. Wholesalers make up
about 30 percent of all business stockpiles.  Wholesalers’ inventories of durable goods, or those meant to
last several years, increased 1 percent, boosted by lumber,
metals, machinery and cars, today’s report showed. Sales of
durable goods dropped 0.6 percent, the biggest decrease since
April 2011. Car sales dropped 1.7 percent.  Non-Durable Goods  Stockpiles of non-durable goods fell 0.6 percent in March,
the biggest decrease in six months, after jumping 1.4 percent.  Purchases of unsold non-durable goods rose 1.5 percent, led
by petroleum, paper products and farm goods.  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 2.2 percent annual
rate in the first after a 3 percent pace in the prior three
months, Commerce Department figures show.  Part of the slowdown reflected less support from
inventories. Stockpiles were rebuilt at a $69.5 billion annual
pace, adding 0.6 percentage point to growth in the first three
months of 2012. That compares with a 1.8-point contribution in
the prior period.  “A lot of our customers are managing their inventories much
tighter now than what they have in the past,” Roy Armes,
president and chief executive officer of  Cooper Tire & Rubber
Co. (CTB) , said during a May 2 earnings call. “A lot of that has to do
with the economy, some of it has to do with just managing cash
and there’s a lot of it that has to do with the distribution
network.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  