-- Dow Falls 6th Day in Longest Slump Since August on Greece
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-09T13:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/u-s-stock-futures-drop-amid-political-turmoil-in-europe.html
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) 
dropped for a sixth straight day, the longest losing streak
since August, as  Greece ’s political impasse intensified concern
about a worsening of the European sovereign-debt crisis.  Bank of America Corp.  and  Citigroup (C)  Inc. fell at least 0.8
percent, following a tumble in a measure of European lenders.
 Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  and  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  slid more than 1.2
percent to pace losses in commodity shares.  Macy’s Inc. (M)  slumped
5.6 percent as the owner of its namesake and Bloomingdale’s
department stores repeated its profit forecast for this year.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated 0.9 percent to
1,350.99 at 9:45 a.m. New York time. The Dow declined 111.49
points, or 0.9 percent, to 12,820.60. The 30-stock measure was
poised to cap the longest slump since Aug. 2, three days before
S&P stripped the U.S. of its AAA credit rating.  “Everything is not fine with  Europe , it never was and
that’s the problem,” said Bruce Bittles, chief investment
strategist at Milwaukee-based  Robert W. Baird , which oversees
$85 billion. “It looks like Greece is going to have to leave
the  euro zone . It’s going to be sooner rather than later. It
will be a critical period. The markets will probably remain on
edge over the next several weeks.”  Stocks slumped and Spanish  default risk  climbed to a record
as Alexis Tsipras of Greece’s Syriza party squared off with
political leaders before talks on forming a coalition, handing
them an ultimatum to renounce support for the European Union-led
rescue if they want to enter government. Greece, which has 436
million euros ($566 million) of debt coming due on  May (SPX)  15, is
struggling to form a government after weekend elections.  Biggest Declines  Concern about the European debt crisis helped drive the S&P
500 down 2.5 percent in May and trimmed this year’s advance to
8.4 percent. Commodity and technology companies, which are more
dependent on the pace of economic growth, have led the  declines 
so far this month.  American financial companies retreated as a measure of
 European lenders  slumped 2.9 percent. Bank of America declined
0.8 percent to $7.73. Citigroup decreased 1.5 percent to $30.84.  Moody’s Investors Service will this month start cutting the
credit ratings of more than 100 banks, a move that risks pushing
up their funding costs and forcing them to curb lending in a
threat to economic growth.  BNP Paribas SA,  France ’s biggest lender, Deutsche Bank AG,
 Germany ’s largest, and New York-based Morgan Stanley are among
firms that face having their short- and long-term debt
downgraded to their lowest-ever levels by Moody’s, the ratings
company said in February.  Commodity Shares  Energy and raw material producers also retreated. Newmont
Mining, the largest U.S. gold producer, decreased 1.2 percent to
$44.22. Halliburton, the world’s largest provider of hydraulic-
fracturing services, slid 2.4 percent to $31.90.  Macy’s slumped 5.6 percent to $37.29. The company repeated
its forecast that profit this year would be $3.25 to $3.30 a
share. Analysts estimated $3.39, on average.  Some stocks slumped after analysts’ downgrades.  Marvell
Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  dropped 3 percent to $13.48 after being
cut to neutral from buy at UBS AG. CF Industries Holdings Ltd.,
the largest U.S. maker of nitrogen fertilizers, tumbled 4.7
percent to $174.26 after Dahlman Rose & Co. recommended  selling 
the shares.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  jumped 2.8 percent to $45.54, a record
high. The world’s largest entertainment company said fiscal
second-quarter earnings rose 21 percent, beating analysts’
estimates on rising theme-park and cable-television profits.  Arena Rises  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. increased 5.6 percent to $3.61.
The biopharmaceutical company was  raised  to outperform from
market perform at BMO Capital Markets. The rating means that
Arena is forecast to beat the market.  U.S. stocks are less than expensive regardless of the
price-earnings ratio used to value them, according to  Richard Bernstein , chief executive officer of Richard Bernstein Advisors
LLC.  A comparison of the S&P 500’s multiple to earnings from the
previous four quarters along with a ratio, compiled by Yale
University Professor Robert J. Shiller, that’s based on 10 years
of income, put the index’s value at respectively 13.8 times and
22.2 times profit.  “The market looks at worst reasonably valued, at best
downright cheap,” Bernstein said in an interview with Robert
Huebscher, founder and CEO of the Advisor Perspectives website,
that was published yesterday.  Both  price-earnings  indicators look “better than normal”
after taking  interest rates  into account, he said. The average
yield on 10-year Treasury notes has fallen to 2.01 percent this
year from 2.76 percent for all of last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  P/E ratios are poised to rise, he said during the April 30
 interview , as economic weakness in Europe and slower growth in
 emerging markets  spur demand for U.S. assets.  “People are underestimating the risk outside the U.S. and
overestimating the risk inside it,” said Bernstein, based in
 New York . “Over the next several years, there is going to be a
reevaluation of those risks, and we should get  higher multiples 
in the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  