-- U.S. House Republicans Seek Special Counsel for MF Global
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-05-09T19:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/u-s-house-republicans-seek-independent-counsel-for-mf-global.html
U.S.  House Republicans , voicing
concern over possible conflicts of interest involving former
Chief Executive Officer Jon S. Corzine, are asking the
Department of Justice to appoint an independent counsel to
investigate the collapse of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)   Representative Michael Grimm and 26 of his colleagues have
signed a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder requesting the
appointment of a special counsel to take over the investigation
of the New York-based firm. Corzine’s relationship with
regulators and policy makers presents the possibility of
favoritism, according to Grimm.  “It’s about perception,” said Grimm, surrounded by
Republican lawmakers, MF Global customers and members of the
Customer Commodity Coalition, a group representing the firm’s
customers. “No one here is saying that any impropriety has
taken place, but the perception is certainly there.”  MF Global, once run by Corzine, a Democrat who served in
the  U.S. Senate  and as New Jersey’s governor, filed the eighth-
largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct. 31 after getting margin calls
and bank demands for money at its brokerage unit. Corzine’s
relationship with regulators and government officials from his
time in office, his political fundraising for President  Barack Obama  and in his role as the former head of  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , all present conflicts of interest, the lawmakers wrote.  Seeking Signatures  “Due to Mr. Corzine’s long tenure in both the financial
services industry and as an elected official, he naturally
developed many relationships with highly placed individuals in
the government who are very close to the investigation of the MF
Global collapse,” the lawmakers said in the letter. Grimm said
he is still seeking signatures and is talking to “three or
four” Democrats who are “on the fence” about signing.  The letter comes as regulators, lawmakers and the Justice
Department are probing what led to the firm’s failure. Four
congressional panels have held hearings on the bankruptcy of the
firm that has left a customer-funds shortfall estimated at $1.6
billion.  House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus 
of Alabama and Representative  Randy Neugebauer  of Texas, the
chairman of the Financial Services subcommittee investigating
the firm’s failure, have not signed the letter, according to the
list of signers provided by Grimm’s office.  Alisa Finelli, a spokeswoman for the  Justice Department ,
declined to comment on the letter, which has not yet been sent.  Corzine, who testified on  Capitol Hill  last year, said he
did not know where the missing money is and that he was not
involved in its disappearance.  “I never gave any instruction to misuse customer funds, I
never intended anyone at MF Global to misuse customer funds and
I don’t believe that anything I said could reasonably have been
interpreted as an instruction to misuse customer funds,”
Corzine told lawmakers in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  