-- Lugar Concession Speech Tells All About Polarization
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-05-09T19:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/lugar-concession-speech-tells-all-about-polarization.html
“We have been studying Washington
politics and Congress for more than 40 years, and never have we
seen them this dysfunctional,”  wrote   Thomas Mann  and Norman Ornstein in the Washington Post. “In our past writings, we have
criticized both parties when we believed it was warranted.
Today, however, we have no choice but to acknowledge that the
core of the problem lies with the  Republican Party .”  In Washington, “Mann and Ornstein” are a brand. Mann works
at the centrist  Brookings Institution ; Ornstein at the
conservative  American Enterprise Institute . Over their four-
decade partnership, they have established themselves as the two
most respected, committed scholars -- and defenders -- of the
 U.S. Congress . They never tire of pointing out that the way the
Founders designed the federal government, Congress came first,
and it was intended to have an “institutional identity,” not a
partisan identity. It’s that institutional identity, they now
say, that is under threat, and more from one party then the
other.  Their cri de coeur hit a nerve. The column, published two
weeks ago, was recommended more than 241,000 times on Facebook.
It generated more than 5,000 comments. It was tweeted more than
3,000 times. It made many Republicans very, very angry. But if
you want to see why Mann and Ornstein wrote it, look no further
than Senator  Richard Lugar ’s concession statement Tuesday night,
which showed, in its wan effort to make the two parties sound
equivalently extreme, just how much further the Republican Party
has gone, and how right Mann and Ornstein were.  Here’s Lugar , after losing to Indiana Treasurer Richard
Mourdock in the Republican primary:  “I don’t remember a time when so many topics have become
politically unmentionable in one party or the other. Republicans
cannot admit to any nuance in policy on climate change.
Republican members are now expected to take pledges against any
tax increases. For two consecutive presidential nomination
cycles, GOP candidates competed with one another to express the
most strident anti-immigration view, even at the risk of
alienating a huge voting bloc. Similarly, most Democrats are
constrained when talking about such issues as entitlement cuts,
tort reform and trade agreements.”  First, note the policies he highlighted on both sides:
Republicans have radicalized on climate, tax and immigration --
by any measure, three of the most significant policy problems
the country faces. Meanwhile, “most” Democrats are constrained
when talking about entitlement programs, tort reform and trade
agreements.  Wrong Animal  “Entitlement programs” -- fine, that’s a big one. But tort
reform and trade agreements? It’s like saying Republicans ignore
the elephant in the room while Democrats have trouble talking
about the guinea pig.  It’s not even true. You’ll notice that Lugar was careful in
his phrasing. Republicans “cannot admit to any nuance” on
 climate change , they are “expected to take pledges” forswearing
any tax increases, and they “competed with one another to
express the most strident anti-immigration view.” Meanwhile,
“most Democrats are constrained when talking about such issues
as entitlement cuts, tort reform and trade agreements.”  “Cannot admit” is not the same as “constrained from
talking.” It’s not even close, actually. Lugar, a senator known
for his deliberate demeanor, clearly chose his words with care.
Democrats might be “constrained” when talking about these
issues, but they do it. Obama, for instance, has signed free-
trade agreements with Colombia, Panama and South Korea. He  told 
CBS’s “60 Minutes,” “I don’t believe malpractice reform is a
silver bullet, but I’ve talked to enough doctors to know that
defensive medicine may be contributing to unnecessary costs,”
and he  said  in his 2011  State of the Union  address that he’d be
open to “medical malpractice reform to rein in frivolous
lawsuits.”  As for entitlements, Democrats cut $500 billion from
Medicare in the Affordable Care Act and created an appointed
board designed to make far-reaching, cost-saving reforms to
Medicare on an accelerated schedule. You may or may not like
those changes, but they’re definitely “entitlement cuts” to
Medicare, as Republicans, who successfully campaigned against
them in 2010, know full well.  In his August 2011 negotiations with Speaker John Boehner,
Obama broached raising the eligibility age for Medicare and
slowing the growth in Social Security benefits by “chaining” the
program to the  consumer price index . At the end, those
negotiations  fell apart  not because Obama couldn’t persuade
Democrats to sign onto entitlement changes, but because Boehner
couldn’t persuade Republicans to sign onto tax increases. More
recently, Senator  Kent Conrad , who is chairman of the Senate
Budget Committee, proposed the Simpson-Bowles deficit-reduction
plan as the Democrats’ long-term budget proposal, with the
support of his party’s Senate leadership.  Systemic Effort  Then, of course, there’s the simple fact that Lugar was in
a position even to write this concession speech. Over the past
three years, there’s been a systematic effort uniting crucial
parts of the conservative infrastructure to cull the Republican
Party of legislators who are willing to compromise with
Democrats.  Groups such as Americans for Prosperity and the Club for
Growth. They targeted  Mike Castle  in Delaware, Bob Bennett in
Utah,  Arlen Specter  in Pennsylvania,  Lisa Murkowski  in Alaska,
 Olympia Snowe  in Maine,  Orrin Hatch  in Utah and, of course,
Lugar.  This has exerted a polarizing force on the Republican Party
that simply doesn’t exist in today’s  Democratic Party . Indeed,
Senate Democrats chose to permit  Joe Lieberman , who went much
further than any of these Republicans in undercutting his party
-- even endorsing the Republican presidential nominee,  John McCain , in 2008 -- to keep all of his committee assignments. The
move angered liberal activists who had organized a primary
challenge to Lieberman in 2006. But just as primary campaigns
from the right have shown Republican moderates that they must
hew closer to the party line, the Democratic leadership’s
embrace of Lieberman proved to Democratic moderates that the
party would permit dissension.  The political scientists Keith Poole and Howard Rosenthal
provide some independent empirical confirmation of the two
parties’ “asymmetric polarization.” They’ve developed a system
for  tracking  congressional polarization all the way back to the
first congresses. Their research shows that the “median
Republican and Democrat has moved toward their respective
ideological poles in the contemporary period, but this effect is
considerably larger in the House than the Senate and for
Republicans more than Democrats.”  They’ve also found that since 2006, Democratic primaries
where the incumbent lost and the challenger took office were as
likely to end with a more moderate legislator holding the seat
as with a more liberal one. In Republican primaries, 75 percent
of the successful challengers were more conservative -- and
that’s without considering instances, such as Specter’s campaign
in Pennsylvania, where a more conservative challenger drove an
incumbent out of the race or into the other party.  Whether the Republican Party is “the problem” is a
subjective judgment. Perhaps you loathe taxes and, in the face
of all available evidence, consider global warming a hoax. In
that case, the Republican Party is doing exactly what it should
be doing. But there is simply no denying that the Republican
Party has gone much further right than the Democratic Party has
gone left, and that, from policy pledges to primary challenges,
it has done much more to discourage its members from
compromising than the Democratic Party has. So if you think
polarization is the main problem in  Washington  today, then Mann
and Ornstein are right: Your beef is largely with the
Republicans.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 