-- Lugar’s Tea Party Loss Dims Republican Senate Prospects
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-05-09T15:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/lugar-s-tea-party-loss-dims-republican-senate-prospects.html
Richard Lugar  of Indiana, a six-term
Senate veteran and one of the most influential lawmakers on
foreign affairs, lost in a primary that underscored the
dominance of anti-tax Tea Party activism against established
 Republican party  leaders.  Yesterday’s victory by Indiana State Treasurer Richard Mourdock in the Republican race improves Democrats’ odds of
gaining the Senate seat in November. Republicans have
experienced other setbacks in their drive to control the Senate,
including some involving the party’s anti-government activists.  Republican Senator Olympia Snowe of Maine, who at one point
risked a Tea Party challenge, announced on Feb. 28 she will
retire rather than seek re-election to a Congress she said is
growing too partisan. The front-runner to succeed her,
independent and former  Maine  Governor Angus King, is a one-time
Democrat who won’t say which party he would align with if
elected.  “This is something that has been building for some time,
and it’s not going to go away anytime soon,” said Eric Uslaner,
a political science professor at the University of Maryland in
 College Park . As politics become more polarized, it “gives a
lot of power to the more conservative elements in the Republican
Party.”  Even Senate Odds  While Republicans were once seen as having the edge to take
over the Senate majority that Democrats control 53-47, political
strategists say the battle now seems more evenly matched.  “I don’t know that Republicans have the advantage
anymore,” said  Jennifer Duffy , Senate editor of the nonpartisan
Cook Political Report. “I call the Senate a 50-50 proposition
now.”  Senator  John Cornyn  of Texas, chairman of the National
Republican Senatorial Committee, said he remains “very
optimistic” about his party winning the Senate and in Indiana.  “It’s a Republican state, and I’m confident we’ll hold the
seat,” he said.  Indiana Democrats say their Senate nominee, U.S.
Representative Joe Donnelly, 56, can beat Mourdock, 60, because
his criticism of bipartisanship may not play as well in a
general election. The 80-year-old Lugar, the top Republican on
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, was attacked by Mourdock
for voting with Democrats, including for the $700 billion
bailout of the banking industry passed in 2008 during President
George W. Bush’s term.  Vote Count  With all precincts reporting, Mourdock had almost 61
percent of the vote to 39 percent for Lugar, according to the
 Associated Press .  Republicans have several things working in their favor in
this year’s fight for Senate control. Democrats have 23 seats to
defend in November, compared with 10 for Republicans. While the
economy has improved some, the 8.1 percent unemployment rate
remains a factor for President  Barack Obama  and lawmakers in his
party. That includes the two Democratic senators seen as most
vulnerable this fall, Claire McCaskill of Missouri and Jon Tester of Montana.  Republicans are favored to pick up the Senate seat of
retiring Democratic Senator  Ben Nelson  of Nebraska, even though
Democrat Bob Kerrey, a former governor who also represented the
state in the Senate, has entered the race.  Brown-Warren Race  In Massachusetts, where Democratic consumer advocate
 Elizabeth Warren  is running against Republican Senator  Scott Brown , the challenger faces questions about her claim of Native
American ancestry and whether that gave her advantages while
teaching at  Harvard University  in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Democrats say they have more reason for optimism, including
Republican infighting that could influence key races.  “We’re seeing this reflexive Tea Party ideology play out
in a number of races,” said Guy Cecil, executive director of
the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.  In Indiana, Mourdock is backed by FreedomWorks, which has
helped fund and organize the Tea Party movement, and the small-
government group Club for Growth. He was endorsed by anti-tax
activist  Grover Norquist , and Tea Party favorites Sarah Palin,
the 2008 vice presidential nominee, and former presidential
candidate and Republican Representative  Michele Bachmann  of
Minnesota.  Supporting Mourdock  Lugar, in conceding defeat for the seat he first won in
1976, told supporters in Indianapolis last night that he wants
Mourdock to defeat Donnelly. He said he has “no regrets” about
seeking a seventh term as he congratulated Mourdock on his
victory.  At the same time, Lugar criticized the partisanship in
Congress, saying the hardening of positions by both parties
means “our political system is losing its ability to explore
alternatives.”  Jubilant Tea Party supporters proclaimed “VICTORY” and
“We did it” in an e-mail that also said, “Now we can all
rejoice that we have a nominee in Richard Mourdock that will
stand up for Tea Party values and fiscal responsibility.”  The statement by the Tea Party Express said the primary
showed “that if our politicians are careless and frivolous with
taxpayer’s money, we will go after you, no matter what side of
the aisle you are on.”  Wisconsin Contest  In another race with dynamics similar to those in  Indiana ,
former Wisconsin Governor Tommy Thompson is facing a challenge
in the Republican Senate primary from former U.S. Representative
Mark Neumann, who is backed by Club for Growth and other outside
groups.  Neumann had raised $1.47 million by the end of March while
Thompson had collected $1.32 million. They are seeking to fill
the seat of retiring Democratic Senator  Herb Kohl . Their
campaign accounts are dwarfed by the only Democrat in the race,
Representative Tammy Baldwin, who has collected $4.45 million.  Meanwhile, Republican infighting may be giving a boost to
Democratic Senator  Bill Nelson  of Florida.  U.S. Representative Connie Mack, Nelson’s lead Republican
challenger, is being criticized by his top rival in the state’s
Aug. 14 Republican primary, former Senator  George LeMieux .
LeMieux questioned whether Mack spends too much time in  Palm
Springs , California, with his wife, Republican Representative
Mary Bono. LeMieux has released an online ad poking fun at
Mack’s previous employment in marketing for the “Hooters” bar
chain.  Raking in Cash  Nelson is leading in recent polls, and has a big
fundraising advantage. He’s raked in $11.9 million so far and
has $9.55 million cash on hand, while Mack has raised only $2.2
million and has $1.38 million cash on hand.  “Connie Mack has proven himself not to be a very strong
candidate so far,” said Hastings Wyman, founder of the
Washington-based non-partisan Southern Political Report.  In addition to a handful of contentious primary contests,
Republican odds for winning control of the Senate may be
diminished by an improved political environment for Democrats.  In Virginia, where former Republican Governor George Allen
and former Democratic Governor  Tim Kaine  are evenly matched in
their contest for an open Senate seat, Obama may help Kaine,
Wyman said.  Obama, who carried Virginia four years ago, leads
Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney 51 percent to 44
percent in the state, according to an April 28-May 2 Washington
Post poll of 1,101 adults.  “Republicans thought Kaine’s association with Obama would
hurt him badly, and it turns out Obama is running well ahead in
Virginia,” Wyman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  