-- Lukoil Cheapest to Rivals on Oil Drop Concerns: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-05-09T23:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/lukoil-cheapest-to-rivals-on-oil-drop-concerns-russia-overnight.html
OAO Lukoil (LUKOY) , Russia’s biggest non-
state oil producer, fell to the cheapest valuation versus
emerging-market energy companies in two months on concern a rout
in crude prices will curb plans to expand output.  Lukoil dropped 4.5 percent in New York yesterday, leaving
it to trade for 3.9 times estimated earnings, almost half the
6.6 average multiple for companies on the  MSCI Emerging Markets
Energy Index. (MXEF)  The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of Russian
companies traded in the U.S. dropped 1.6 percent to 93.28, the
lowest level since Jan. 6. American depositary receipts of
Lukoil traded at the biggest discount to their Moscow  shares  in
seven months as markets open today after a holiday.  Russia’s second-biggest oil producer after government-
controlled OAO Rosneft, Lukoil said on March 14 that it plans to
invest $150 billion in the next decade to boost output by 50
percent over the next decade. Crude oil, Russia’s biggest export
earner, fell for a sixth day in New York yesterday, the longest
losing streak since July 2010.  “The Russian oil majors have committed to significant
capital investments and a lower oil price would significantly
diminish their free cash-flow generation, making them even less
attractive for investors,”Ilya Kravets, an analyst at ED
Capital LLC in New York, which manages $100 million including
Russian equities, said by e-mail yesterday.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, dropped 2.2 percent to $26.72 in the U.S.
yesterday, erasing most of this year’s gain. The ETF is up 0.3
percent in 2012.  Rosneft Decline  Lukoil’s ADRs fell to $54.33 in New York yesterday, to
trade at a 3 percent  discount  to the company’s Moscow-listed
shares, the most since Dec. 8. One depositary receipt is equal
to one ordinary share. Russian markets were closed yesterday and
experienced light trading on May 7 and 8 because of holidays.  Rosneft slid 1.6 percent to $6.25 in  London  yesterday to
trade 1.8 percent below the company’s Moscow-traded shares. One
Rosneft global depositary receipt is equal to one ordinary
share. The oil producer was trading for 5.27 times estimated
earnings in London yesterday, the least since Oct. 19.  Crude for June delivery fell 0.2 percent to $96.81 a barrel
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the lowest since Feb. 2.
Oil lost 8.8 percent in the six sessions through yesterday.
 Urals crude , Russia’s chief export blend, declined 0.2 percent
to $110.55, the weakest level since Jan. 26.  Putin Funding  The  U.S. Energy Department  reduced its 2012 price
projection for crude oil as supply is forecast to expand faster
than fuel consumption. Oil in New York will average $104.12 a
barrel this year, down 1.5 percent from an April forecast of
$105.72, the department’s Energy Information Administration said
yesterday in its monthly Short-Term Energy Outlook.  OAO Surgutneftegas, Russia’s fourth-largest oil producer,
fell 2.5 percent to $5.74 in the U.S., the lowest level since
Jan. 23.  Russia , the world’s biggest energy exporter, is seeking
additional funds to pay for President  Vladimir Putin ’s campaign
pledges to boost government salaries and pensions. Putin began
his third presidential term on May 7 when he was sworn into
office. About 50 percent of budget revenue came from energy
sales in 2011, according to government estimates.  “There is a chance that the budget will be in deficit if
the Urals price for oil goes down further,” Kravets said
yesterday. “This will be a near-term negative for Russia. The
budget for Russia will start to be worked on in the next few
weeks, however, given Putin’s promises during the campaign there
may be a lot of spending that goes into it.”  Gazprom Falls  The country had a  budget surplus  in March of 125 billion
rubles ($4.1 billion), Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said on
April 3. Russia has “a good chance” of having a budget surplus
for 2012, Alexey Ulyukaev, first deputy chairman of the nation’s
central bank, said in New York on April 18.  Any  budget deficit  may be capped at 1 percent of gross
domestic product after a “transition period,” Prime Minister
 Dmitry Medvedev , who swapped jobs with Putin, said on May 8.  ADRs of  OAO Gazprom (OGZPY) , the world’s biggest producer of
natural gas, fell 2.5 percent to $10.13 yesterday, trading at a
6.8 percent discount to the company’s Moscow-listed  shares . One
ADR is equal to two ordinary shares.  The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials
was little changed at 294.83 yesterday, the lowest level since
Dec. 15, while the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of
commodities fell for a sixth consecutive session, down 0.1
percent to 648.28.  Gold producers including  Polyus Gold International Ltd. (PLZLY) ,
Russia’s biggest gold producer, rose in U.S. trading.  Polyus ADRs gained 2.9 percent to $2.88, rising for the
first time in seven days. The company will hold an annual
general meeting in London on May 28, according to a statement
posted on its website yesterday. The company plans to pay at
least 20 percent of its net income in dividends on an annual
basis, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  