-- Ukraine’s Tymoshenko Moved to Hospital After Hunger Strike
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-05-09T18:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/ukraine-s-jailed-ex-premier-goes-to-hospital-after-hunger-strike.html
Jailed Ukrainian opposition leader
 Yulia Tymoshenko  was transferred to hospital for treatment
supervised by German doctors after ending a two-and-a-half-week
hunger strike.  Tymoshenko, 51, was taken to a hospital in the eastern city
of Kharkiv today, according to a statement on the former prime
minister’s  website . It may take as long as two weeks to treat
her for malnutrition, her daughter, Yevheniya, said in the
statement.  The ex-premier says President  Viktor Yanukovych  engineered
her seven-year prison sentence to block her from elections this
year. The European Union wants Tymoshenko freed before sealing a
pact to cement ties with Ukraine, with some officials pledging
to boycott events in the former Soviet republic and the bloc
today telling it not to attend a May 15 meeting in Brussels.  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said Ukraine’s Prime
Minister, Mykola Azarov, should cancel plans to attend a
Ukraine-EU Cooperation Council meeting in Brussels, according to
the transcript of a question-and-answer session posted on the
Euronews website today.  ‘Stay Home!’  “We can give a very strong political message,”  Van Rompuy 
said. “The Prime Minister of Ukraine announced he would come to
Brussels, we said: ‘Stay home!’ It is a clear signal from our
side that they have to change inside Ukraine.”  The cost of insuring Ukrainian government debt against non-
payment for five years using credit-default swaps rose 14 basis
points to 791 basis points today, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Tymoshenko was found guilty of overstepping her authority
as premier when signing a gas accord with  Russia  in 2009. She
began a hunger strike April 20 after saying she was attacked by
three men, punched and forced to go to a hospital near Kharkiv.  A probe by the Prosecutor General’s Office showed she
wasn’t beaten, Oleksandr Dikusarov, a spokesman for the Foreign
Ministry, said yesterday.  An eastern European summit scheduled to take place in
Ukraine’s Black Sea resort of Yalta May 11-12 has been postponed
indefinitely after some leaders were unable to attend, Dikusarov
said yesterday. The leaders of EU nations such as the  Czech
Republic  and  Austria  pulled out of the event over Tymoshenko’s
incarceration and subsequent treatment.  Soccer Boycott  European commissioners have said they won’t attend Euro
2012 soccer matches in Ukraine, which begin next month. Swedish
and Dutch officials have said they’ll also boycott the
tournament, which is being co-hosted by  Poland .  Polish President Bronislaw Komorowski denounced the boycott
of Ukraine and the  soccer tournament  in a statement today on his
 website . He also urged Ukraine to amend its legislation to make
it impossible to convict people under criminal law for political
activity.  The EU has postponed completion of an association agreement
and free-trade pact with Ukraine while Tymoshenko is in jail.
The eastern European nation must listen to the bloc so its
economy can benefit from closer EU ties, Economy Minister Petro Poroshenko said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  