-- Muni Bond Issuers Say Volcker Rule Will Drive Up Costs
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-05-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/muni-bond-issuers-say-volcker-rule-will-drive-up-costs.html
At the Pike Place Market in  Seattle ,
where fishmongers fling fresh salmon through the air to the
cheers of tourists, the public authority that maintains the
century-old landmark has long been able to borrow at the low
costs of the muni market.  So has the Seattle Art Museum, where a city-chartered
authority issued $61 million in debt for expansion in 2005. Both
face higher borrowing costs under a proposed federal rule that
would no longer treat them the same as state and local
governments.  “They would probably have to pay a higher  interest rate 
because there’s a smaller market,” Washington Treasurer James McIntire said in a telephone interview. “The banks that would
typically buy and hold those bonds are not going to be
participating in the demand for them.”  McIntire and municipal-bond issuers including the biggest
U.S. transit agency say the so-called Volcker Rule may limit
trading in at least 40 percent of the $3.7 trillion municipal
market, driving up costs to finance airports and schools. They
joined Citigroup Inc., the second largest U.S. muni underwriter
last year, which in January said the proposal was arbitrary and
unnecessary.  The  Volcker Rule  is among the most contentious pieces of
the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law, enacted by Congress in
2010 to set rules policing  Wall Street  and aimed at preventing a
repeat of the 2008 financial crisis. The rule, named after
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , would ban banks
from proprietary trading, or making bets with their own money.  Agency-Issued Debt  Bond underwriters typically buy the securities with their
own funds, with the expectation of selling them to investors.
Under the Volcker Rule, that would be allowed for debt issued by
municipalities, though not for agency-issued debt.  “It would significantly affect the demand for those
securities and, as a result, drive up the borrowing costs,”
McIntire said in one of dozens of letters to regulators
criticizing the proposal. A spokesman,  Andrew Smith , said the
treasurer’s office didn’t have an estimate for the potential
increase.  A 298-page draft of the rule was released for public
comment in October by the Fed, the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Treasury
Department’s Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  Among the more than 18,000 comments received by regulators,
dozens focus on the Volcker Rule’s impact on the $3.7 trillion
municipal- securities market , said  Mary Miller , the Treasury
Department’s undersecretary for domestic finance.  Markets ‘Distorted’  The comments “raised concerns that municipal markets could
be distorted by the differential treatment of direct obligations
and agency obligations,” she said at a municipal analysts
conference in  Las Vegas  on April 18.  Issuers called on regulators to use the definition of a
municipal security in the  Securities Exchange Act of 1934 , which
includes debt issued by agencies and municipalities.  There are signs that the SEC may be willing to do so
because municipals don’t raise the same concerns about short-
term buying and selling that other propriety trading does, said
Peter DeGroot, head of municipal research at New York-based JP
Morgan Securities LLC, in a May 4 note to investors. Judith Burns, an SEC spokeswoman, declined to comment on changing the
definition.  The  Metropolitan Transportation Authority , which runs  New
York  City’s subways, buses and commuter rail and has more than
$30 billion in outstanding debt, would be subject to the Volcker
Rule restrictions under the draft plan, Patrick McCoy, the
authority’s finance director, said in a Feb. 13  letter  to
regulators.  Liquidity Issue  “We believe this narrow interpretation included in the
Volcker Rule exemption will have significant material adverse
impacts on the liquidity of securities issued by these entities
and, in turn, the primary market pricing and secondary market
trading of their securities,” McCoy wrote.  The municipal securities market consists of more than
50,000 issuers, with smaller issue sizes than the corporate  debt
market , Alan Polsky, chairman of the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board, which writes regulations for the market, said
in a Jan. 31  letter .  Exempting agency debt will affect “the primary market
pricing and secondary market trading of securities issued by
agencies and authorities of states and their political
subdivisions,” he wrote. “Issuers and investors (primarily
retail) will bear the cost.”  Jennifer Galloway, an MSRB spokeswoman, said the board
doesn’t have an estimate on the potential cost.  In a Feb. 13  letter  to regulators, North Carolina Treasurer
Janet Cowell said banks hold nearly 9 percent of all outstanding
municipal debt.  “We are aware of no cases in which municipal securities
holdings have caused safety and soundness problems for either
individual banks or on a systemic basis,” Cowell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in New York at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 