-- Unibail-Rodamco Said to Buy Portugal Malls for $650 Million
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-05-09T12:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/unibail-rodamco-said-to-buy-portuguese-malls-for-650-million.html
Unibail-Rodamco SE (UL) ,  Europe ’s largest
publicly traded real estate company, plans to enter the
Portuguese shopping-center market by purchasing two malls for
about 500 million euros ($650 million), two people with
knowledge of the transaction said.  Unibail-Rodamco, based in Paris, agreed to buy  Almada Forum 
and  Forum Montijo  from a fund controlled by Frankfurt-based
 Commerzbank AG (CBK) , according to the people, who declined to be
identified because the information is private. The fund, CG
Malls Europe, is registered in Luxembourg.  Guillaume Poitrinal, Unibail-Rodamco’s chief executive
officer, has focused on owning large shopping centers, with big-
name brands, that dominate their region. The Portuguese malls,
in the cities of Almada and Montijo, have combined space of
about 75,000 square meters (807,000 square feet.)  Portugal ’s economy will start to recover next year after
shrinking by 3 percent in 2012, according to the government’s
budget plan. Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  is cutting
spending and increasing taxes to comply with the terms of a 78
billion-euro aid plan from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund .  Unibail-Rodamco is reinvesting the  proceeds  from disposals
of smaller centers or malls with limited scope to boost rents
and values. The French company raised 1.3 billion euros from
divestments last year.  Unibail-Rodamco declined to comment in an e-mail. Markus
Esser, head of communications at Commerz Real, Commerzbank’s
property fund manager, also declined to comment.  Barcelona Purchase  In October, Unibail-Rodamco bought the Splau mall in
 Barcelona  for 189 million euros. The company said in a  
presentation  that the transaction is part of its strategy to
make acquisitions in large cities or regions where it sees
“significant rental growth potential.”  Almada and Montijo are linked to Lisbon, Portugal’s
capital, by bridges across the Tagus river. Almada Forum has 262
shops spread over two stories and attracts more than 18 million
visitors each year. Forum Montijo has 160 stores, 22
restaurants, a supermarket and a six-screen movie theater,
according to its website.  Commerzbank plans to sell all three assets owned by CG
Malls Europe, in which it owns a majority stake, to shrink the
bank’s balance sheet and cut its property-loan book. The
company’s Eurohypo AG real-estate lending unit was the main
lender for the three properties. CG Malls Europe will divest the
third one, the 36,500 square-meter  Espacio shopping center  in
the Spanish city of Leon, to  ECE Projektmanagement GmbH & Co.
KG , the people said.  Commerzbank declined to comment, as did Christian
Stamerjohanns, a spokesman for Hamburg-based ECE, the shopping
center development and management company controlled by
Germany’s Otto family.  The owners of the remaining minority stakes in CG Malls
Europe are two Dutch pension funds and an unidentified U.K.-
based investor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 