-- UOB Profit Beats Analyst Estimates on Higher Trading and Fees
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-05-09T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/uob-profit-beats-analyst-estimates-on-higher-trading-and-fees.html
United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB) , Southeast
Asia’s third-largest lender by total assets, posted a 12 percent
gain in first-quarter profit, beating analyst estimates as all
its main businesses grew.  Net income advanced to S$688 million ($550 million) from
S$612 million a year earlier, the Singapore-based bank said in a
statement to the stock exchange yesterday. That exceeded the
S$626 million  average  of seven analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Income from lending, fees and commissions, and
trading and investment all rose.  Chief Executive Officer Wee Ee Cheong is seeking to boost
profit after declines in the previous two quarters, when the
value of investments slumped, trading income fell and the bank
set aside more funds for loan defaults. Lending in  Singapore ,
where UOB got 65 percent of pretax profit in 2011, grew by an
average 27 percent in the first three months of this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Where the results surprised is on income from trading and
investment-related gains, always a difficult area to forecast,”
said  Matthew Smith , a senior analyst at Macquarie Capital
Securities Singapore Pte. “Also, loan loss provisions were
lower than expected.”  UOB’s net fees and commissions advanced 9.5 percent to
S$362 million as earnings from wealth-management and corporate
finance activities increased. Other non-interest income climbed
22 percent to S$268 million, driven by dividends, trading and
gains from the sale of investments.  Market Rally  Financial markets rallied worldwide, with the  MSCI World
Index (MXWO)  posting its best performance in six quarters in the period
as  Europe ’s debt crisis eased and U.S. unemployment fell,
helping boost trading revenue at lenders including  Bank of
America Corp .  Allowances for credit and other losses were little changed,
advancing 1 percent from a year earlier to S$104 million.  UOB’s  net interest margin , a measure of lending
profitability, widened to 1.98 percent from 1.90 percent a year
earlier. Net interest income, the difference between what the
bank makes from lending and what it pays on deposits, grew 15
percent from a year earlier to S$998 million.  The loan book grew 21 percent, compared with an average 25
percent growth for Singaporean banks last year.  ‘Cost-Conscious’  “They are a cost-conscious company with stable interest
margins, and growing their assets in a moderate way in  Southeast
Asia ,” Mark R. Glazener, head of equity investments at
Rotterdam-based Robeco Groep NV, which managed 150 billion euros
($194 billion) of assets as of the end of 2011 including UOB
shares, said before the announcement. “The main challenge for
the bank is to keep on delivering on growth to justify its
present price.”  The stock trades at 12.6 times earnings, compared with 8
times for the  Bloomberg Asia Pacific Banks Index (BPRBANK)  that tracks 56
lenders in the region including UOB.  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , Southeast Asia’s largest bank,
last month posted first-quarter profit that unexpectedly climbed
16 percent to a record S$933 million. Growth at the lender,
which is bidding $7.2 billion for PT Bank Danamon  Indonesia , was
driven by higher income from interest and trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  