-- Hutchison Said to Make Revised $2.6 Billion Eircom Offer
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-05-10T04:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/hutchison-said-to-make-revised-2-6-billion-offer-for-eircom.html
Billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. (13)  made a revised 2 billion-euro ($2.6 billion) bid
for Eircom Group, the Irish phone company in supervised credit
protection, according to people with knowledge of the matter.  The formal cash offer by Hutchison’s Three Ireland unit
removes a number of conditions that were attached to an initial
bid last week, which was rejected by an Irish court-appointed
examiner, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the details are confidential. The offer for Dublin-based Eircom
remains subject to due diligence, said one of the people.  Eircom filed for examinership, an Irish version of
 bankruptcy protection , on March 30 as it seeks to restructure
the 3.8 billion euros of debt accumulated following five
ownership changes in the past 13 years. Li,  Hong Kong ’s richest
man, is adding to the more than $31 billion that Hutchison has
invested in wireless operations in the past decade, as European
companies seek capital to weather the sovereign debt crisis.  “The crisis in  Europe  makes this a good time for Hutchison
to expand its footprint,” said Linus Yip, chief strategist at
First Shanghai Securities in Hong Kong. “Hutchison is well-
capitalized, and can raise more funds for deals if necessary.”  Hutchison  fell  0.8 percent to HK$71.90 at the midday-
trading break in Hong Kong. The stock has gained 11 percent this
year, compared with the 9.3 percent increase in the city’s
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Eircom has said it supports in principle a restructuring
proposal from its first-lien, or most senior, lenders, which
would see this creditor class take control of the company.  Blackstone Units  Representatives for Eircom and Three Ireland declined to
comment. Michael McAteer, the examiner, didn’t respond to call
and text message to his mobile phone. A spokesman for the first-
lien lenders wasn’t able to comment.  The first-lien lenders, led by two  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
units, proposed to write off 15 percent of their 2.36 billion-
euro net loans, in exchange for full control of the company, two
people with knowledge of the matter said in March.  The plan envisages second-lien lenders recovering 35
million euros, or 10 percent, of their loans, with more junior
creditors losing virtually all their investment, the people said
at the time.  The examiner, who is weighing the first-lien plans, is
obliged by Irish creditor-protection laws to consider all offers
for the company before signing any agreement with investors.  Orange Austria  Hutchison is stepping up its investments in Europe, where
the Hong Kong company agreed to buy wireless carrier Orange
Austria this year, and acquired the U.K.’s Northumbrian Water
Group Plc in 2011.  The planned purchase of Orange Austria, a deal valued at
1.3 billion euros, may receive approval from the European Union
by “mid-year,” Hutchison said this week.  There are opportunities for  consolidation  in the phone
industry in Europe, Hutchison Managing Director Canning Fok said
in March.  Hutchison’s 3 Group, which owns phone businesses in Italy,
the U.K., Denmark, Sweden, Austria, Australia and Ireland, has
made cumulative investments of HK$240 billion ($31 billion),
according to an estimate by Morgan Stanley in 2010.  Li’s wealth has increased by $1.2 billion this year to
$23.4 billion, ranking him 14th in the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index  of the world’s richest people.  ----With assistance from  Mark Lee  in Hong Kong. Editors: Kenneth
Wong,  Garry Smith , Subramaniam Sharma  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  