-- Lutnick Seizes Las Vegas With Cantor Fitzgerald’s Bet on Sports
-- B y   S e t h   L u b o v e
-- 2012-05-09T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/lutnick-seizes-las-vegas-with-cantor-fitzgerald-s-bet-on-sports.html
In his ground-level office on a back
street of  Las Vegas , Lee Amaitis is worlds away from the 15-
story building in  London  where he served as the second in
command at Cantor Fitzgerald LP until 2008. Rather than looking
at the Tower of London on the River Thames from his office, he
now has a view of men entering and leaving Sheri’s Cabaret,
featuring “Hot Fully Nude Girls.’’  The cabaret is part of the Las Vegas scene that Amaitis,
who today heads  Cantor Entertainment Technology Inc. (CETI) , thrives
in. He shellacs his hair back Gordon Gekko-style and wears the
collar of his white shirt wide open. With a swagger typical of a
casino high roller, Amaitis says he plans to turn Cantor, one of
the world’s largest brokers of  government bonds , into a sports-
gambling powerhouse, too, Bloomberg Markets reports in its June
issue.  “We came here to change the face of the industry,’’ says
Amaitis, who’s retained a bit of his native Brooklyn accent.  Cantor Fitzgerald, which lost 658 of its 960  New York 
employees when terrorists slammed an American Airlines jet into
the North Tower of the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001, is
known for playing tough. The brokerage’s chief executive
officer,  Howard Lutnick , battled the widow of founder Bernie Cantor in court for control of the firm in the 1990s. Since
then, he has launched a series of lawsuits alleging patent
infringement and broker poaching against  ICAP Plc (IAP)  and other
rivals, who have reciprocated with their own litigation.  Wise Guys  Equipped with technology drawn from Wall Street and a
trader’s appetite for risk, Cantor is now charging into sports
betting in Las Vegas. The business -- conducted in a section of
a casino called a sports book -- is characterized by volatile
swings in profit and loss, competitors like the MGM Grand and
 Caesars Palace (CZR)  and expert gamblers known as wise guys.  “I have friends who run sports books,’’ says Joe D’Amico,
owner of  All American Sports , a Las Vegas handicapping service.
“I got to tell you, none are without stomach problems.’’  While Wall Street firms are no strangers to Vegas -- they
have long helped casino developers raise money -- Cantor is the
first to explicitly set itself up as a gambling operation. With
a $150 million investment, the New York-based bond brokerage has
taken control of and retooled seven sports books. They are owned
by the  Venetian  and the  Palazzo  -- part of  Sheldon Adelson ’s  Las
Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  -- and other casinos.  Cantor has also produced wireless tablets so gamblers can
bet anywhere in the casino or hotel. Eventually, it wants to
start an online poker casino, too.  Android Apps  To promote its new Android app that allows betting from
smartphones and tablets in  Nevada , Cantor put cardboard fliers
in Las Vegas taxis in February. They feature a curvaceous
woman’s derriere with the tag line “Sports Betting on Your
Android? You Bet Your App!’’  “The idea that we can bring so much technological
innovation to that market is a great opportunity,’’ says
Lutnick, 50. “I think it will dramatically add to the size of
the market.’’  Cantor’s bookmaking software, a modified version of what
Wall Street traders use, has changed the way sports gamblers at
the Venetian bet. They walk past cocktail waitresses in tight
skirts and low rollers at slot machines to get to the sports
book, a 10,000-square-foot (930-square-meter) room furnished
with 118 bright-red betting stations. Cantor installed a 100-
foot-wide (30-meter-wide) TV screen that can show 34 sporting
events at once.  In-Game Betting  On this February evening, two dozen gamblers bet on events
ranging from 14 simulcast horse races to college and
professional basketball games. Cantor says its computer servers,
driven by the kind of algorithmic-rich software that fuels
derivatives trading, spew out odds on events at the fastest rate
ever in Las Vegas. This speed allows gamblers to place bets
during contests on dozens of situations just seconds before they
unfold.  During a  Los Angeles  Lakers-Boston Celtics game, a betting
opportunity suddenly pops up on the stations. It offers a $100
payoff on a $220 wager that the Celtics’ Paul Pierce will sink
the two foul shots he’s about to take. Gamblers bet on Pierce by
swiping a finger across the screen. Pierce sinks both.  Before Cantor ran the sports book, people could usually bet
only once, before the game began, on the outcome. Today, more
gambling means additional revenue for Cantor, which gets a fee
of about 2 percent of some wagers, plus its winnings, which are
shared with the casino.  Aggressive Competitor  “You want to build Wall Street on Las Vegas Boulevard,’’
says Andrew Garrood, a former derivatives trader at  UBS AG (UBSN) , who
helped Cantor develop the software.  Amaitis, 62, who is spearheading Cantor’s entry into Vegas,
is an aggressive competitor who decades ago had trouble with the
law. Eight years before joining Cantor, he was busted for
possession of cocaine along with other brokers. The U.S.
Attorney in  New Jersey  charged him in 1986 with a felony, which
Amaitis pleaded down to a misdemeanor, receiving a year’s
probation and a $5,000 fine, according to the  Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority . Amaitis says he hasn’t used drugs or
alcohol since his arrest.  In 2005, Nevada’s  State Gaming Control Board , the state
regulator, approved Amaitis’s application to run sports books.
Chairman Mark Lipparelli says a misdemeanor or felony doesn’t
prevent a person from getting a gambling license. Regulators
haven’t filed any complaints for violations against Cantor,
according to  state records .  ‘Brooklyn Bruiser’  Amaitis was dubbed the “Brooklyn Bruiser” by London
newspapers during a 2003 trial about a wrongful-dismissal claim.
The suit was brought by Steven Horkulak, a Cantor broker from
1997 to 2000, who accused Amaitis of abusing and traumatizing
him.  “In my judgment, Mr. Amaitis is a dictatorial manager,’’
wrote a London High Court judge who awarded Horkulak 892,000
pounds ($1.4 million) in damages.  Cantor, which argued that Amaitis’s trading-room behavior
was no different from that of executives at other financial
firms, appealed the decision and lost. Amaitis declined to
comment on the case.  “Amaitis is a very smart, tough guy,” says Richard Bronson,
chairman of online gaming company  U.S. Digital Gaming Inc.   Amaitis’s big bet with Cantor Entertainment is that the
 U.S. Congress  will allow sports wagering to spread across the
country. In 1992, lawmakers banned the activity everywhere
except in the states where it was already happening: Delaware,
Montana, Nevada and Oregon.  New Jersey  But states are pressing anew to make sports and online
gambling legal as they search for more sources of  tax revenue  to
offset deficits. New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  signed a
bill in January legalizing sports betting, provided the 1992
federal law is changed.  “I don’t think there’s any doubt that one day sports
betting will be legal and widespread in the U.S.,’’ says Joseph Asher, founder of sports book company Brandywine Bookmaking LLC.
“It’s widespread already. But it’s illegal.’’  Cantor and its main rival --  William Hill Plc (WMH) , the No. 1
U.K. bookmaker -- are chasing a huge jackpot. In Nevada, sports
gamblers bet $2.9 billion in 2011 -- a tiny fraction of the $380
billion that Americans wager illegally each year, according to a
1999 report by the  National Gambling Impact Study Commission .  “All of that outside of Nevada is offshore and illegal,’’
Cantor’s Garrood says. “If that doesn’t give you a hint of the
opportunity, then you’re just ignoring the data.’’  Vicious Tirades  Amaitis is fighting his competitors with a lawsuit, echoing
the legal wars Cantor ignited against ICAP more than a decade
ago. Asher was a Cantor Entertainment managing director until he
left in 2007 to set up Brandywine Bookmaking, which also manages
risk for Delaware’s sports lottery. Last year, William Hill
agreed to spend $55 million for Brandywine and two other sports-
betting companies in Nevada. That gave William Hill more than 10
percent of the market compared with about 14 percent for Cantor
as of 2011, according to the companies.  In August, three months after William Hill’s deal for
Brandywine, Cantor sued Asher, alleging breach of fiduciary duty
for selling out to a competitor. Asher, in a counter-complaint,
accused Amaitis of launching into vicious tirades against him
when they had worked together.  “Sports betting is a large market, but since both Cantor
and William Hill are providing the same thing, I expect the
competition to be fierce,’’ says David Schwartz, director of the
 Center for Gaming Research  at the  University of Nevada, Las
Vegas .  Inspiration  Amaitis says his inspiration for a gambling business came
about 1996 from watching a Cantor customer in Tokyo play online
poker while trading bonds. He pitched the idea to Lutnick.  “I called Howard and said we should think about online
gaming,’’ Amaitis says. “I said, ‘Can you imagine if they traded
and played poker at the same time. We’d have the whole
package.’’’  Amaitis, who was the London-based chief of Cantor’s
international business, brought gambling to the firm in 2000.
The company got a U.K. bookmaker’s license so it could offer
spread betting -- a popular form of wagering in Britain --
through a subsidiary called Cantor Index Ltd. The bets offer
spreads, say 3-1 odds, on the likelihood of a security rising or
falling. When people make the wrong call, Cantor keeps the
money.  By 2005, with Las Vegas in the midst of a building boom,
Amaitis began laying the groundwork for Cantor’s move to the
city. He hired one of the state’s top gambling lobbyists, Bob
Faiss, to write and push a bill through the Nevada legislature
to allow mobile wagering.  Touchscreen Gadgets  Cantor saw so much promise in the technology that in 2005
it contracted with manufacturers to produce about 500 eDeck, or
electronic card deck, hand-held devices. The firm lends the
touchscreen gadgets to gamblers, who set up an account with a
deposit that’s used to make the bets. Cantor, which is phasing
out the hardware as it deploys its apps, collects the winnings
and fees.  Lutnick says mobile gambling lets bettors take advantage of
all that Las Vegas offers, with its restaurants overseen by
celebrity chefs and extravagant stage shows.  “People can play and have fun and not have to sit at the
green-felt table all day,” Lutnick says. “It’s going to change
how much people get to bet because it will free them to play
games while they’re at dinner or a show.”  Bored Bettors  Garrood, the former UBS trader, helped mastermind Cantor’s
second technical innovation: in-game betting. In 2007, he
visited a Las Vegas sports book and didn’t like what he saw.
Gamblers who had bet on a football game watched it on television
with little enthusiasm.  “Everyone looked bored,’’ Garrood says.  He returned to Cantor’s London office to help create
software to enable wagering with odds during games. Cantor was
following the lead of some U.K. bookmakers, which already
allowed in-game betting. Amaitis says Cantor’s technology has
single-handedly boosted sports betting in Nevada. Wagers
increased $311 million from 2009 to 2011, according to Nevada’s
 gaming board .  “Because of Cantor,’’ he says.  By taking more bets, Cantor spreads out risk, enabling it
to accept bigger wagers, in the hundreds of thousands of
dollars. Cantor even took a few $2 million bets on the outcome
of the 2012  Super Bowl , says Mike Colbert, the firm’s race and
sports book director of risk. The limit at most sports books is
about $1,000 to $10,000.  Wager On Itself  “The old-school way was to throw out any old odds and only
take small bets and protect themselves,’’ says  Michael
Shackleford , a Las Vegas-based actuary and gaming mathematician.
“Cantor is more aggressive.’’  Cantor Entertainment is so confident that it’s even
offering a wager on itself. The unit, which has been struggling
to make a profit, filed for an initial public offering in
December. Sports and mobile gamblers bet $362 million with the
unit through the first nine months of last year, and it lost
$22.2 million in that period, its  IPO prospectus  says.  While Amaitis lacks income, he’s got plenty of bravado.
Surrounded by three flat-screen TVs tuned to ESPN, ESPN2 and
CNBC in his office, Amaitis says Cantor will reign over Las
Vegas. “I can tell you Cantor will dominate sports in Nevada,’’
he says. Today, with major casinos such as the  MGM Grand (MGM)  still
controlling collectively more than half of all sports wagers, no
one company lords over the market.  As Cantor Entertainment prepares for an IPO, investors will
be able to wager on whether the firm will one day become a Las
Vegas kingpin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Lubove in Los Angeles at 
 slubove@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby in New York at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  