-- Vodafone to Face Increased India Tax Bill of $3.7 Billion
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-05-09T12:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/vodafone-to-face-increased-india-tax-bill-of-3-7-billion.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  faces a higher tax
bill of as much as 200 billion rupees ($3.72 billion) in India
if the government proceeds with plans to amend the law,
according to India Finance Secretary R.S. Gujral.  The mobile-phone operator, which in January defeated an
initial government demand for $2.2 billion in taxes stemming
from its 2007 acquisition of  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s Indian
operations, will have to pay additional interest and a penalty
on top of the existing tax demand, Gujral said today.  “It was always the intention of parliament that such
transactions are liable for tax,” Gujral told Bloomberg UTV
today. “There is no question of the government discussing or
negotiating.”  Vodafone faces the increased bill in its single largest
market by subscribers after  India ’s government proposed amending
a law to retrospectively tax cross-border transactions dating
back to April 1, 1962. The  Supreme Court  in March upheld its
earlier dismissal of the tax claim.  Vodafone and Hutchison conducted their $10.7 billion
transaction offshore, with Vodafone’s Dutch subsidiary, Vodafone
International Holdings BV, acquiring CGP Ltd., a Cayman Islands
company controlled by Hong Kong-based Hutchison.  The carrier, which has warned it will pursue international
arbitration if it is found liable for the taxes, said today it
will take “all possible steps” to safeguard its interests. The
company said it has invested more than 500 billion rupees since
2007.  “The Indian Supreme Court unambiguously ruled that no tax
was payable in India” according to the laws at the time of the
acquisition, the operator said today in an e-mailed statement.
“Despite making considerable investments over the past five
years, Vodafone has yet to take a single rupee out of the
country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  