-- Volcker Says Prop Trading Poses Bank Conflicts of Interest
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-05-09T20:44:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/volcker-says-prop-trading-poses-conflicts-of-interest-for-banks.html
Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , commenting in support of the Dodd-Frank Act rule that
bears his name, said it is impossible for banks to handle the
potential customer conflicts presented by trading activities.  “Imposing on those essential banking functions a system of
highly rewarded –- very highly rewarded -– impersonal trading
dismissive of client relationships presents cultural conflicts
that are hard -– I think really impossible -– to successfully
reconcile within a single institution,” Volcker said today in
remarks prepared for a Senate Banking subcommittee hearing in
Washington.  The Senate panel met to discuss risks posed to the by the
size and interconnectedness of financial firms. Lawmakers and
regulators have been looking at ways to reduce risk in the
financial system since the 2008 economic crisis, when Wall
Street’s largest banks required a $700 billion taxpayer bailout.  Senator  Sherrod Brown , the Ohio Democrat who leads the
Financial Institutions subcommittee, introduced legislation
today that would cap the size of banks, limiting to 10 percent
the share of total deposits and total liabilities any one could
hold. It also would limit the size of non-deposit liabilities at
banks to 2 percent of U.S. gross domestic product.  “It’s vital we take the necessary steps sooner rather than
later to end government policies that support and encourage
large complex institutions,” Brown said today.  Previously Rejected  Brown’s bill is similar to an amendment he introduced in
2010 during debate over what became the Dodd-Frank Act. That
measure was rejected in a Senate floor vote.  Volcker, who spent much of the hearing answering questions
about his intent for the proprietary trading ban, said while he
would prefer a less concentrated banking system, he can “live
with” the current size of U.S. financial institutions.  The former Fed chairman, who championed the proprietary
trading ban while serving as an adviser to President  Barack Obama , said it is an “important step” to address conflicts of
interest, as well as “compensation practices and, more broadly,
the culture of banking institutions.”  The Volcker rule is intended to reduce the chances that
banks will put federally insured depositors’ money at risk.
Banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  have argued that it is so broad and poorly
defined it will force them to shed business lines and could
actually increase risks for their clients.  “I think they are making it overly complicated,” Senator
 Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, said today of regulators’
efforts to implement the rule.  October Proposal  The Fed, Securities and Exchange Commission and Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. are among the regulators drafting the
final rule. The initial 298-page proposal was released in
October and criticized by groups on both sides of the issue.
Regulators last month announced that banks would have a “full
two-year period” to implement the new rule, which is scheduled
to go into effect on July 21.  After his testimony, Volcker said lobbying against the rule
was playing a role in adding to its complexity.  “What I would do is make clear what the purpose is, have a
good sense of metrics afterwards and make sure the management of
the bank understood the purposes,” he told reporters outside of
the hearing room. “They’re not dummies and they know what
proprietary trading is, and their control systems reflect that.
If that’s all OK, then let them go at it and we’ll review their
activities ex post.”  Money-Market Funds  Volcker also said during the hearing that regulators should
consider structural changes to money-market funds and impose
stronger  capital requirements  and oversight.  Concern over money funds, once seen as among the safest of
investments, grew after the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5
billion Reserve Primary Fund, which triggered a broader run that
contributed to a freeze in global financial markets. The SEC
adopted rules in 2010 that introduced liquidity minimums,
average maturity limits and new disclosure requirements.  Money-market funds have fought any additional regulation.
 Christopher Donahue , the chief executive officer of Pittsburgh-
based  Federated Investors Inc. (FII) , the third-biggest U.S. money-
fund provider, said Jan. 27 that his firm would sue the SEC if
it went forward with a proposed rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  