-- Wages Bolster Spending as Americans Extend Hours: Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-05-09T20:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/wage-growth-bolsters-spending-as-americans-extend-hours-economy.html
Consumer spending  in the U.S. is
rising even though hourly pay isn’t. The reason: More Americans
are finding jobs and putting in longer hours in the office and
on the factory floor.  Wages and salaries -- the total paycheck for all Americans
-- climbed 2.2 percent in the 12 months through March after
adjusting for inflation, according to calculations by RBS
Securities Inc. economist  Omair Sharif . Earnings per hour on
average  dropped  0.7 percent in real terms over the same period,
according to Labor Department data.  Incomes are getting a boost from job growth and gains in
hours, which will give Americans the means to increase spending
at the fastest pace in six years, say Sharif and Pierpont
Securities LLC economist  Stephen Stanley . That’s allaying
concern that hourly earnings, a widely watched measure of
consumer buying power, are stagnating.  “If you were just to look at the average hourly earnings
number, it would suggest pretty dire consequences for
consumption,” Sharif said. “If you look at wages and salaries,
consumption should be able to grow.”  Sharif predicts consumer spending, which accounts for about
70 percent of the economy, will rise 2.5 percent this year, the
most since a 2.9 percent increase in 2006. Stanley, the most
accurate forecaster of personal spending in the two years
through March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News, is
even more bullish, seeing a gain of 2.5 percent to 3 percent.  Bloomberg Median  Their estimates are more optimistic than the 2.1 percent
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 75 economists early
last month. Household spending rose 2.2 percent in 2011, up from
2 percent the year before.  In the five years before the last recession began in 2007,
spending advanced 2.9 percent on  average , Commerce Department
data show.  Recent gains in spending have propelled stocks of companies
that depend on discretionary purchases. The Consumer
Discretionary Select Sector SPDR  Fund (XLY) , which includes Starbucks
Corp. and  Nike Inc. (NKE) , has advanced 14 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with an 8.4 percent gain in the broader
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Stocks fell today amid concern  Greece ’s bailout is
unraveling as the nation struggles to form a coalition
government. The  S&P 500  dropped 0.7 percent to 1,354.58 at the
close of trading in  New York .  Elsewhere, April retail sales in the U.K. fell by the most
in more than a year as poor weather and consumer caution slowed
demand.  Macy’s Sales  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the owner of its namesake and Bloomingdale’s
department stores, today reported first-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates as sales at stores open at least a
year advanced 4.4 percent. The Cincinnati-based retailer also
boosted its same-store sales forecast to about 3.7 percent this
year from a previous estimate of 3.5 percent. Shares fell after
it failed to boost its yearly earnings forecast from February’s
projection.  Wage growth is especially important as households seek to
pay down debt accumulated during the bubble years that preceded
the recession, Stanley said.  “Consumer spending is going to live and die with income
growth because consumers aren’t likely to take on a lot more
debt,” said Stanley, who is also based in  Stamford .  Americans are also unlikely to dip further into savings,
said Michael Carey, the chief economist for  North America  at
Credit Agricole CIB in New York.  Saving Rate  The  saving rate , which shows how much disposable personal
income consumers choose to keep, fell to 3.8 percent in March
from 4.7 percent at the end of 2011.  “I’m looking out at employment gains as the major driver
of income gains that should support the consumer,” said Carey,
who predicts consumer spending will advance about 2.5 percent
this year.  Joshua Shapiro  is among economists less optimistic about
the outlook.  “The underlying support for spending is going to be fairly
weak,” said Shapiro, chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini
Ramirez Inc. in New York. “The labor market recovery is still
patchy and not particularly strong, and I also think that people
are going to be increasingly cognizant of the fact that savings
need to be increased.”  Consumer Confidence  Carey says a decline in gasoline prices may bolster
 consumer confidence  and leave Americans with more money to spend
on other goods. The  average price  of a gallon of gasoline fell
to $3.75 on May 8 from a peak this year of $3.94 in early April,
according to AAA.  The pickup in wages comes as the economy adds more jobs and
workers put in more hours. Payrolls have increased by 1.82
million in the past 12 months, helping reduce the  unemployment
rate  to 8.1 percent from 9 percent.  Meanwhile, the average workweek for private employees
lasted 34.5 hours in April, up from a recession-low of 33.8
hours. It averaged 34.6 hours in the five years leading up to
the recession.  “The bulk of the improvement that we’ve seen in labor
income over the last couple quarters is coming not so much
because wages are accelerating,” Stanley said. “It’s coming
from the fact that more people are working, and those that are
working are working a little longer.”  Payrolls and Hours  The Commerce Department’s data on wages and salaries
reflect the increase in payrolls and hours, while Labor
Department figures on average hourly earnings do not.  An improving labor market has bolstered consumer
confidence. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index reached a four-
year high in early April. Other measures also improved, with the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan sentiment gauge reaching
a one-year high last month, and the Conference Board’s index
hovering near the one-year high reached in February.  Among those feeling better about the economy is Christina
Carroll, 24, who landed a new job at San Francisco-based
Demandforce Inc., selling software to dentists as an account
executive.  She said she expects to earn $80,000 to $90,000 as long as
she meets her sales quota -- compared to the $53,000 she made
last year at her sales position at a real-estate search engine.  Carroll said she sees herself dining out more often, buying
new clothes, purchasing an Apple Inc. iPad and taking a trip
with her mother to Paris for Christmas.  “I can finally spend money on what I want,” she said. “I
used to pay all my bills and have almost nothing left to spend -
- there was a week I had $40 to live on. After my first
paycheck, I’m going on a big spending spree.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  