-- Wall Street Sues for Pre-Crisis Rules, CFTC’s Chilton Says
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-05-09T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/wall-street-sues-for-pre-crisis-rules-cftc-s-chilton-says.html
Wall Street’s court challenges to the
Dodd-Frank Act are an effort to return regulations to their
state before the 2008 financial crisis, said  Bart Chilton , a
member of the U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission .  Chilton, a Democrat, criticized trade groups that have
turned to courts to overturn CFTC regulations. The Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association, U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and  International Swaps and Derivatives Association
Inc.  are among trade organizations challenging the agency’s
rules with lawsuits by arguing that the CFTC hasn’t adequately
assessed the costs and benefits of the regulations.  “They want us to write off the 2008 financial crisis as an
aberration and ignore countless reputable scholars who’ve found
that the costs of opaque, unregulated derivatives markets are
borne by the public,” Chilton said in remarks prepared for an
 event  today in  Washington  held by policy groups including
Americans for Financial Reform. “There is more trash talk and
more action regarding litigation related to financial regulation
than ever before.”  The court challenges based on cost-benefit analysis are
part of a “D.C. Quadrikill” strategy of confronting
regulations: “1. kill the bill; 2. defund it; 3. regulate it;
and, 4. litigate it,” Chilton said. Americans for Financial
Reform, a coalition that includes the AFL-CIO and other labor
unions, is joined in sponsoring today’s event by  Public Citizen ,
the Center for Progressive Reform, Economic Policy Institute and
Public Citizen.  Organizations including the Chamber of Commerce, the
nation’s largest business group, and the Business Roundtable
have successfully challenged the legality of regulatory measures
by claiming authorities didn’t fully assess the costs. In July,
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington overturned a Securities
and Exchange Commission rule that was intended to expanded
shareholder rights.  Schapiro’s Guidance  SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro has responded with guidance
instructing agency staff that all rules must be accompanied by
an analysis that explains why a regulation is necessary,
identifies alternative approaches and considers the costs and
benefits on both a quantitative and a qualitative basis.  Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican, and
Senator  David Vitter , a Louisiana Republican, are pushing
legislation that would codify the requirement that the SEC
conduct a thorough cost-benefit analysis before proceeding with
a rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  