-- Wienerberger First-Quarter Loss Widens 9% on Hard Winter
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-05-09T06:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/wienerberger-first-quarter-loss-widens-9-on-hard-winter.html
Wienerberger AG (WIE) , the world’s largest
brick maker, said it’s first-quarter loss widened 9 percent
after record-low temperatures in Europe delayed the annual start
of construction.  The company’s net loss widened to 57.5 million euros ($75
million) from 52.6 million euros a year earlier, the Vienna-
based company said in a statement today. That’s in line with the
average estimate of a 57.9 million-euro loss in a Bloomberg
survey of three analysts.  Revenues only declined 3 percent as price increases of 5
percent manage to help balance an 8 percent decline in volumes,
the company said.  Wienerberger is emerging from an overhaul that stripped
away 200 million euros in costs as it sought to weather the
global slowdown and  Europe ’s debt crisis. The Austrian
brickmaker agreed to buy out Solvay SA’s share in plastics pipe
joint venture Pipelife and the deal is expected to close by the
end of June.  The “portfolio clean up” give Wienerberger a better
standing and makes it less dependent on one market area, Chief
Executive Officer Heimo Scheuch said.  While Wienerberger expects to outperform the market,
Scheuch, because of low visibility, declined to provide a
forecast for the year.  Regarding the expected development in its individual
regions, Wienerberger sees a difficult market development in
eastern Europe, with the exception of Poland and  Russia . In
western Europe, Wienerberger sees “moderate growth” in
 Germany , “slight growth” in Scandinavia, a “stable” U.K.
market and a decline in the Netherlands.  Scheuch sees the U.S. market to have “bottomed out” and
expects a break-even at Ebitda level for 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net  