-- Political-Risk Insurer Underused as Climate Talks Fail
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-05-10T09:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/world-bank-political-risk-insurer-underused-30-in-climate-fight.html
A World Bank Group agency providing
insurance, including political-risk coverage, in developing
nations is being underutilized by 30 percent because of a lack
of demand as the United Nations fights to protect the climate.  The Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency in  Washington 
provided a record $2.1 billion of guarantees in the year through
June last year, which may jump another 14 percent this fiscal
year, said Edith Quintrell, MIGA’s director of operations. A
lack of global climate-protection laws after 2012 may be curbing
demand, Quintrell said in a phone interview on May 7.  “Right now we don’t see a flood of inquiries” from
climate-finance investments, she said. “We have capacity to do
more. We could do $3 billion a year” without raising new
capital, she said.  The agency has  expanded guarantees  into new countries,
including projects in the Republic of Congo,  Iraq , Kosovo and
Liberia. Insurance for climate-protection projects is one of
several risks MIGA covers, and includes geothermal and
hydroelectricity generation, as well as a plant that captures
heat-trapping methane gas at a landfill in San Salvador,  El
Salvador . MIGA doesn’t specify what portion of its guarantees
are for climate-related projects.  The guarantees for the San Salvador project cover risks of
expropriation, war and civil disturbance, and breach of
contract, including any failure of the Salvadoran government’s
commitments under a letter of approval for the Certified
Emission Reductions under the Clean Development Mechanism of the
1997  Kyoto Protocol , according to MIGA’s  website .  ‘Fantastic Facility’  “It’s a fantastic facility, but must be better utilized,”
Sean Kidney, London-based executive chairman of the Climate
Bonds Initiative in London, said April 30 by phone. “If we are
not using every cannon we have at this point, then there is
something wrong.” His group in November set a quality standard
for debt securities that may help expand the class of assets to
be known as climate bonds.  Global emissions may be about 53.5 billion metric tons in
2020, 22 percent more than they need to be to stabilize the
climate and 13 percent more than levels in 2008, Deutsche Bank
AG estimated on April 26.  The world may need to spend an additional $15.2 trillion in
the 25 years through 2035 to keep temperature increases to about
2 degrees Celsius (3.6 Fahrenheit), the  International Energy
Agency  in Paris forecast in November. That’s on top of spending
required under current and proposed energy-and-climate policies,
said the adviser to 28 developed nations.  Record Guarantee Levels  Some bankers and lawmakers are seeking to boost climate-
protection finance as carbon prices dropped to record levels
last month, reducing the incentive to invest in clean technology
in the European Union, which has the biggest greenhouse-gas
market by traded volume.  The world probably won’t be able to achieve a peak in
greenhouse-gas emissions by 2020, which will place the climate
at risk,  Henry Derwent , retiring chief executive officer of the
International Emissions Trading Association, said May 4 by phone
from Geneva.  A global financial institution similar to the U.S.’s
Overseas Private Investment Corp. is needed to help create
climate bonds, boosting funds for climate protection as it cuts
costs and risks for investors, Michael Eckhart, global head of
environment finance and sustainability at Citigroup Inc., said
in February.  MIGA’s Mandate  OPIC in Washington helps mobilize private capital and
insure against political risk in developing nations, according
to its website. The “global OPIC” would serve developed and
developing nations, excluding no one, Eckhart said.  MIGA is forecasting record guarantee levels of $2.2 billion
to $2.4 billion in the year through June this year, Quintrell
said. New issuance in the year through June 2010 was $1.5
billion, up from $1.4 billion the previous year.  Moving beyond guarantees in poor nations on  climate change 
would probably require a change in MIGA’s mandate, she said.
“We’ve been exploring how MIGA can take more of a role,” she
said. “Our coverage is fairly well-defined. It’s not so much
the resources, but the mandate that we have.”  Paris Hub  MIGA, owned by nations including the U.S. China and the
U.K., last year opened a so-called  Europe , Middle East and
 Africa  hub in Paris to focus partly on investments in sub-
Saharan Africa and help ease capital constraints caused by the
European sovereign-debt crisis, according to an e-mailed
statement. In November 2010 it expanded its authority to allow
cover for stand-alone debt and some existing investments for the
first time.  Factories and power stations in the European Union carbon
market are the biggest consumers of UN emission credits. The EU
will accept starting May next year credits from new projects
only if they are located in least developed countries.  Interest in MIGA guarantees for government obligations
under climate protection laws will probably increase as nations
and the UN have more success installing such laws, Quintrell
said.  “It’s a bit of a chicken-and-egg situation,” she said.
“There’s still a lot of uncertainty, with not knowing what’s
going to happen after Kyoto.” That protocol’s targets for some
rich nations run through this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  