-- Yuan Drops for Fourth Day on Concern Export Growth Stalling
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-05-09T08:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/yuan-drops-for-fourth-day-on-concern-export-growth-stalling.html
China ’s  yuan  fell for a fourth
straight day on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is slowing demand
for exports from the world’s second-biggest economy.  Overseas  shipments  rose 8.5 percent in April from a year
earlier after increasing 8.9 percent in March, according to
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey before
government data due tomorrow. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar
Index dropped for a second day after the Syriza party that came
second in Greek elections said it would form a coalition
government of left-wing parties, which reject austerity measures
needed to secure a European Union-led bailout.  “The yuan is tracking the weakness in Asian currencies as
 Greece  continues to weigh on the market,” said Eddie Cheung, an
analyst at Standard Chartered Plc in  Hong Kong .  The yuan declined 0.03 percent to close at 6.3097 per
dollar in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. The currency’s one-month implied volatility, a
measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, was
unchanged at 2 percent.  The central bank set the currency’s  reference rate  0.1
percent lower at 6.2865 per dollar. The  People’s Bank of China 
set the fixing at a record 6.2670 on May 2, one day before China
and the U.S. started a fourth round of strategic and economic
dialogue in Beijing. The currency is allowed to trade as much as
1 percent on either side of the reference rate.  “Today’s PBOC  reference rate  is weaker than our
expectations, which could be a pullback from last week’s strong
fixings ahead of the U.S.-China talks,” Cheung said.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan was little changed
at 6.3088 per dollar. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards
dropped 0.02 percent to 6.3503, a 0.6 percent discount to the
onshore spot rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China must overhaul its financial system, strengthen its
social-safety net and let the yuan appreciate when it re-
balances the economy away from a reliance on investment, Murtaza
Syed, the International Monetary Fund’s resident representative
in Beijing, said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  