-- Zuckerberg Credits Junior High Surfing on Yahoo for Inspiration
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-05-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-09/zuckerberg-credits-junior-high-surfing-on-yahoo-for-inspiration.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  co-founder  Mark
Zuckerberg  drew inspiration for the world’s most popular social-
networking site from an unexpected place, according to the video
being shown to would-be investors in the company’s initial
public offering.  Zuckerberg kicks off the  video  by saying he was a big fan
of  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  when he was in middle school. Yahoo, along with
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , was his search engine of choice for scouring the
Web.  “It was this complete symbol of the age in which we live
where now you have access to all of this information,” he said.  Zuckerberg, who was 11 when Yahoo sold shares to the public
in 1996, is now preparing for an IPO that will probably value
his company at close to $100 billion. That’s about five times
Yahoo’s value. In terms of sales, Zuckerberg’s almost caught up
to the site he idolized: Facebook’s $4 billion in revenue over
the past year trails Yahoo by just $1 billion, Bloomberg.com
reported on its Tech Blog.  While Zuckerberg, a celebrated 27-year-old college dropout,
is on the road selling the world’s biggest investors on his
company’s greatness, Yahoo Chief Executive Officer  Scott Thompson  is embroiled in a crisis surrounding his resume, which
falsely stated that he graduated college with a degree in
computer science.  Now Thompson’s job is on the line, something his
predecessors can relate to. The 54-year-old joined Yahoo in
January, becoming its fourth CEO since Zuckerberg started
Facebook in 2004. Thompson was hired months after Carol Bartz
was unceremoniously fired, and tasked with figuring out the
future of a company that was bleeding talent and lacking
coherent direction.  Long Gone  The Yahoo that Zuckerberg grew up with looked very
different, more closely resembling the Facebook of today. The
Web portal’s co-founders,  Jerry Yang  and David Filo, were
computer geeks who started the site as a project at  Stanford
University . And like Zuckerberg, they were heavily involved in
the company’s strategy and product development.  Those days are long gone. For Zuckerberg, the cool site he
loved to navigate the Web in middle school may now serve as an
example of how not to grow up.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  