-- ‘Scottsboro’ Turns Racist Horror Into Minstrel Musical
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2013-11-01T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/-scottsboro-turns-racist-horror-into-minstrel-musical.html
It’s racist, tasteless, clever and
barbed. A black-and-white musical minstrel show comes to  London .  “The Scottsboro Boys” by Kander and Ebb (“Chicago,”
“Cabaret”) uses ironic minstrel-show troupes, 1920s vaudeville
songs and burlesque routines to tell the story of a real-life
miscarriage of justice against nine black men.  The sting in Susan Stroman’s production is the all-male
black cast “white-up” to play sadistic sheriffs, idiot judges,
and trashy white women. The one white performer (Julian Glover)
is a patronizing master of ceremonies who tries to keep control.  In 1931 nine men were accused of raping two white women on
a train in  Alabama . One of the women later admitted that both
she and her friend had lied. Through hasty trials, re-trials and
appeals, the defendants were still continually found guilty.  Kander and Ebb present the story of the accused men and
their experience of a flawed legal system. There’s a
disturbingly merry tap number about execution by electric chair.  A lilting close-harmony plantation song called “Southern
Days” turns into a quietly seditious anthem for justice.  The trial featured Brooklyn-born defense lawyer Samuel
Leibowitz (played by Forrest McClendon).  “Is justice in this case going to be bought and sold with
Jew money from  New York ?” asked the assistant lawyer.  This exchange is transformed into a cheerful anti-Semitic
routine called “Financial Advice.”  Warped Environment  Stroman’s production, first seen in New York in 2010, goes
at a great lick. A receding series of skewed proscenium arches
create a warped theatrical environment. The various locations
are made from chairs which are heaped up to become the bars of a
jail, or spread in a row to become a train. The staging moves
quickly, and keeps the bitter racist pills well sugared.  Perhaps a touch less sugar might have helped. The show gets
more preachy and worthy as it goes on, and the running time of
one hour 50 minutes, with no interval, could be snipped.  A scene in which one of the accused tries to turn informer
on the others isn’t developed, and in consequence the Scottsboro
boys come to seem more and more homogenized and victim-like.  Kander and Ebb’s trick in “ Chicago ” was to make the
audience care about a couple of selfish killers. Here you know
what you’re supposed to feel about these incarcerated martyrs
from the get-go. It doesn’t help propel the drama.  That’s no fault of the superb ensemble. Kyle Scatliffe
plays the prisoner Haywood Patterson (who later wrote a book
about the case) with dignity. Colman Domingo and Forrest
McClendon are sparky as two clowns who take on multiple roles.  The strengths well outweigh the flaws, and make a
provocative, entertaining show. Rating: ****.  “The Scottsboro Boys” is at the Young Vic. Information:
 http://www.youngvic.org  or +44-20-7922-2922  Muse highlights include the London and New York  weekend
guides ,  Lewis Lapham  on history,  Richard Vines  on food and  Greg
Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on movies.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com  or
https://twitter.com/ThompsonWarwick.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 