-- Abe Olympic Speech on Fukushima Contradicts Nuclear Plant Design
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-11-01T00:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/abe-olympic-speech-on-fukushima-contradicts-nuclear-plant-design.html
Japan ’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
says radioactive water flowing into the sea from the crippled
Fukushima atomic station is being contained within the plant’s
harbor, a view maintained by operator Tokyo Electric Power Co.  Marine scientists, Fukushima residents and Japan’s general
public don’t agree. What’s more, the harbor is designed to take
advantage of tidal flushing, which pushes warmer water out to
sea after it has circulated through reactor cooling systems.  “If he means that radioactive water is completely
contained in the harbor, it’s wrong,” Jun Misonou, senior
researcher at the  Marine Ecology Research Institute , said in an
interview. The state-sponsored institute was set up 38 years ago
to monitor water discharges into the sea from Japan’s power
plants.  Abe repeated that the radiation is contained in the harbor
on Oct. 16 in a parliamentary response to questions from the
opposition Democratic Party of Japan. This debate has dogged him
since his Sept. 7 speech to the International Olympic Committee,
when he said the nuclear disaster is “under control.” The next
day,  Tokyo  won hosting rights for the 2020 Summer Olympic Games.  Tokyo Electric spent more than two years denying that
contaminated water was leaking into the sea from the plant 220
kilometers (137 miles) northeast of Tokyo.  In August, it did an about-face and said about 400 tons of
groundwater containing radioactive particles was in an
uncontrolled discharge into the sea each day. It also said it
didn’t know when the leaks began and that the effect of
radioactive water is contained within the harbor. The company is
looking at several engineering solutions to stop the
groundwater.  Fukushima Tides  The utility’s own estimates show that every day much of the
water in the man-made harbor, which is 1 kilometer long and 600
meters at its widest point, is flushed out into the wider
Pacific Ocean.  About 40 percent of water inside the harbor is exchanged
every day with the rise and fall of the tides, Yusuke Kunikage,
a spokesman for the utility, said in a phone interview, citing
the company’s estimate. The situation is under control because
effects of the radioactive water leaks have been “limited”
based on our samples from outside the harbor, he said.  Marine researcher Misonou said sea radiation levels did
drop in areas monitored by the institute in the year following
the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami that caused reactor
meltdowns. But the pace of decline in radiation levels in recent
months has been slower than expected, indicating radioactive
water discharge from the Fukushima site into the Pacific Ocean
continues, Misonou said.  ‘No Impact’  “We believe that the impact on the surrounding waters is
limited to the area within the port of the power plant, and that
judging by the result of our monitoring three kilometers
offshore, there has been no impact on the water or the wider
ocean,” Tokyo Electric President Naomi Hirose said in a  video
message  posted on the company’s website.  For former nuclear engineer Michael Friedlander, who
describes himself as “an avid supporter of responsible nuclear
power,” these comments are damaging to the atomic industry.  “It’s a very Japanese way of handling the situation, the
authorities telling everybody that everything’s OK, ‘don’t
worry, we’re in control,’” Friedlander, said in an interview
from Hong Kong.  Scientists know very little about the effects of low-level
radiation on human bodies and to allow an uncontrolled flow of
contaminated water into the ocean is unprofessional, said
Friedlander, who spent 13 years operating U.S. nuclear plants,
including the Crystal River Station in  Florida .  ‘Don’t Know’  “Can anyone stand up and say, Jeez, this represents a
clear and present danger to the general public? No, no one can.
We just don’t know,” he said. “What that means is, you don’t
just cavalierly decide that you’re going to dump tons and tons
of radioactive water into the Pacific Ocean.”  In the face of this evidence of tidal flush and criticism
of the harbor containment theory by Friedlander and marine
biologists -- one of whom called it “silly” -- Abe repeated it
Oct. 16 in parliament.  “The effect of radioactive substances in the nearby waters
is blocked within 0.3 square kilometers of the plant harbor,”
he said. Japan’s science and technology policy minister, Ichita Yamamoto, said the same to the International Atomic Energy
Agency a month earlier in Vienna.  “The Japanese government position has not changed,”
Hikariko Ono, a spokeswoman for the prime minister’s office,
said Oct. 29 in an e-mail response to questions on the
conflicting views. “We are monitoring a broad area in the open
sea including offshore of the Fukushima coast, and the radiation
levels are far below standard concentration.”  Nuclear Waste  Most of the world’s nuclear power plants are built on
coastlines or near rivers and lakes to draw on water for cooling
reactors. Waste water from atomic plants is filtered to remove
radioactive isotopes such as cesium, tritium and plutonium to
within safety guidelines before it’s returned to rivers and
oceans.  In 2011, 13,485 terabecquerels of tritium and more than 25
terabecquerels of beta radiation, which includes cesium 137 and
plutonium 241, were discharged globally, according to this
year’s  report  from the London-based OSPAR Commission, a body
funded my European countries including France and  Germany . One
terabecquerel is a trillion becquerels.  By way of comparison, 1 kilogram of uranium contains 25
million becquerels of radiation. The same weight of coffee has
1,000 becquerels,  according  to the London-based industry support
group World Nuclear Organization.  Public Poll  The assertions of containment by Abe’s government and the
company are “not true to science,” said Ken Buesseler, a
senior researcher at the  Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution ,
the world’s largest private non-profit oceanographic research
institution. In an interview last month, Buesseler said that
water samples he took show radioactive elements from the station
many kilometers from the coast.  Buesseler emphasized that the isotopes he found are not at
dangerous levels, but repeated the same theme as Friedlander:
Saying the radiation remains in the harbor hinders the science
to investigate what is getting out and whether it poses a
threat.  Strontium-90, for example, binds to bone tissue and has
been linked to cancers such as leukemia. Strontium can enter the
food chain through fish, Buesseler said.  Abe’s comments haven’t persuaded the Japanese public. A
Kyodo News poll conducted Oct. 26 and Oct. 27 found that 83
percent of respondents said they didn’t believe his “under
control” statement.  The residents of Namie, a town 8 kilometers from the
Fukushima nuclear station that was evacuated, said that Abe is
making “irresponsible comments,” according to a town assembly
 statement  posted on its website on Sept. 20.  Radioactive water is leaking from the Fukushima plant to
the harbor and from there into the open ocean, the statement
said. “It’s obvious to everyone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  