-- Labor Signals Qualified Support for Australia Carbon Repeal
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-11-01T08:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/labor-signals-qualified-support-for-australia-carbon-laws-repeal.html
The Australian opposition may support
Prime Minister  Tony Abbott ’s bid to repeal the nation’s carbon
tax if the government agrees to retain an emissions-trading
program, Labor leader  Bill Shorten  said.  “We believe the best, most cost-efficient way to deal with
carbon pollution is an emissions-trading scheme,” Shorten told
reporters in Canberra today. Labor will look to amend
legislation that Abbott has pledged to introduce when the new
parliament meets this month, in order to keep a market-based
emissions-trading system, now due to start July 1, Shorten said.  If Labor’s amendments fail, the opposition won’t support
the repeal of carbon pricing, Shorten said.  Abbott, whose Liberal-National coalition was elected Sept.
7, has vowed to abolish the mechanism established by then-Labor
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  in 2011 as a step toward a carbon
market, saying it has driven up energy prices and deterred
investment. More than 300 of  Australia ’s largest emitters must
pay an average $24.15 a metric ton for  greenhouse gases  this
year.  While Abbott’s coalition has a majority in parliament’s
lower house it doesn’t control the Senate, which has the power
to block its laws. The prime minister told a meeting of party
members in Hobart Oct. 26 that Shorten should support his bid to
remove carbon pricing, calling it “socialism masquerading as
environmentalism.”  Methodical Steps  Repealing the carbon-price program is “inevitable,”
Environment Minister Greg Hunt told reporters today in
Townsville, Queensland state. He declined to commit to a
timetable or speculate on the government’s course of action
should Labor block it.  “We will not stop until the carbon tax is repealed,” Hunt
said. “Let’s see what the Labor party actually does in the
parliament. We will take each step methodically and with
complete intention.”  Gillard agreed to create a carbon price at a fixed rate for
three years, starting in July 2012 at A$23 a ton, before market-based pricing commencing in mid-2015. After winning the Labor
leadership by defeating Gillard in a June party room vote, then-Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  announced a floating price linked to
the European Union’s mechanism would be implemented a year
earlier, in July 2014, at about A$6 a ton.  Abbott called the September election a referendum on
Labor’s carbon policy. New Senators who won a spot in the upper
house won’t take their place until July 1, leaving the balance
of power in the chamber currently held by the Greens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  