-- AIG Names Cornell, Schreiber to Investment Posts
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-11-01T17:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/aig-names-cornell-to-run-bonds-as-schreiber-manages-alternatives.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
named Brian Schreiber and Geoffrey Cornell deputy chief
investment officers as the insurer revamps oversight of its
$358.3 billion portfolio.  Schreiber, 48, will oversee specialized asset classes
including real estate, private equity and hedge funds, New York-based AIG said yesterday in a statement. Cornell, 42, will
manage high-yield and investment-grade corporate bonds and
municipal securities. They will report to William Dooley,
executive vice president for investments.  AIG is overhauling the portfolio’s leadership as Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  simplifies the company after
selling units to help repay a U.S. bailout. Monika Machon, who
was chief investment officer, will become treasurer, a post that
Schreiber previously held.  The changes will help “maximize returns and take a
consolidated approach to all investments across AIG,”
Benmosche, 69, said in the statement. “This is an area where
AIG will distinguish itself.”  Cornell and Schreiber’s new roles help AIG prepare for
Dooley’s eventual retirement, according to a person familiar
with the planning, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public. Dooley, 60, has worked at the insurer
since 1978 and became an executive vice president in 2010,
according to the company’s  website .  “We’re developing our leadership for tomorrow,” Benmosche
said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television with  Betty Liu . “We have to get people different experiences of running
different parts of the company.”  ‘Messy’ Earnings  AIG fell 6.2 percent to $48.47 at 12:45 p.m. in New York
after the company reported third-quarter results late yesterday
that included an underwriting loss and lower premium revenue at
the property-casualty division.  Results  were “messy and light on earnings,”  Randy Binner , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets, said in a research
note yesterday. “While these light earnings are a setback, we
maintain our outperform rating.”  AIG had climbed 46 percent through yesterday in New York
trading. The quarter’s profit was $2.17 billion, an increase of
17 percent from a year earlier.  Strategic Planning  Schreiber was head of strategic planning as AIG crafted
plans to repay a U.S. bailout that began in 2008 and swelled to
as much as $182.3 billion. He was then named treasurer to help
persuade investors to contribute capital AIG needed to replace
U.S. funds. AIG finished repaying the bailout late last year.  “Brian’s leadership and vision were instrumental in the
work surrounding the restructuring and recapitalization of the
U.S. government’s investment in AIG,” Benmosche said in
yesterday’s statement.  Cornell, who started at AIG in 1994, was most recently CIO
for the North America region, AIG said. He has an MBA in finance
from Fordham University and graduated from Bryant University.  AIG’s portfolio included $282.8 billion of bonds as of
Sept. 30, according to the company’s quarterly regulatory
filing. The company had $19.7 billion of mortgages and other
loans.  AIG’s life insurer had $3.5 billion in private equity and
$4.9 billion in hedge funds as of Sept. 30, and the property-casualty unit had $3.7 billion in private equity and $3.6
billion in hedge funds, according to a  document  posted on AIG’s
website.  Supporting Dooley  Schreiber, who will also oversee private placements and
structured products, started at AIG in 1997 as a portfolio
manager in the global investments group, after working as a
banker at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. He has an MBA from
Columbia Business School and an undergraduate degree in finance
from New York University.  “Brian, having started out as an investment professional,
it’s time for him to come in and back up Bill Dooley,”
Benmosche said on Bloomberg TV.  As treasurer, Schreiber was also responsible for strategic
planning, corporate development, and investor relations.  Strategic planning, led by former Morgan Stanley banker
Peter Juhas, and Liz Werner’s investor relations department,
will now report directly to Chief Financial Officer David Herzog, according to a company memo dated yesterday from Herzog
and Dooley.  Machon’s Roles  Machon, 53, was named global head of asset management in
2009, after serving in roles including head of fixed income, CEO
of an AIG European asset manager, and global head of  emerging
markets  fixed income.  She’s now responsible for “optimizing AIG’s funding
sources and capital structure while also working to reduce our
costs of capital and generating greater financial flexibility,”
Benmosche said.  Machon started at AIG in 1998, after working at firms
including Barclays Plc and Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance
Co. She has a law degree and an MBA from Indiana University and
a bachelor’s in business administration from Rockhurst
University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  