-- AIG Plunges on ‘Messy’ Results as CEO Retreats From Goals
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   M a r c i   J a c o b s
-- 2013-11-01T20:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/aig-plunges-most-in-year-on-messy-results-retreat-from-goals.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
posted the biggest decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
after reporting an underwriting loss at its property-casualty
unit and saying it may miss some of its 2015 targets.  The insurer  dropped  $3.37, or 6.5 percent, to $48.28 at 4
p.m. in New York, the steepest fall in a year.  The property-casualty division, AIG’s largest, reported a
third-quarter decline in sales late yesterday. The company’s
operating return on equity was 6.2 percent, compared with 7
percent a year earlier. Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche 
said on a conference call with analysts today that he would stop
providing specifics on progress toward the company’s so-called
aspirational goals, such as a 10 percent ROE target for 2015.  Results were “messy and light on earnings,”  Randy Binner ,
an analyst at FBR Capital Markets who has an outperform rating
on the stock, said in a note to investors.  Third-quarter  net income  climbed 17 percent to $2.17
billion at New York-based AIG, which ended a U.S. bailout late
last year. The insurer’s stock is up 37 percent this year.  “We are proud of what we’ve accomplished so far, we’re
working hard to achieve all those aspirational goals,”
Benmosche told Bloomberg Television’s  Betty Liu  in an interview
today. “Our only concern is if we can get there by 2015.”  AIG laid out the aspirational goals in 2011 as the company
sought to attract private capital to replace funds the U.S.
contributed to rescue the insurer beginning in 2008. The
government owned as much as 92 percent of AIG after the bailout.  ‘Like Guidance’  Increasing  per-share earnings  “in the mid-teens” each
year was among the objectives AIG listed in its filing for the
first quarter of 2011. The insurer also said it planned to
generate $25 billion to $30 billion of capital for buybacks,
dividends, acquisitions and organic growth, and cut general and
administrative costs by $1 billion by the end of 2015.  Benmosche said the company decided to limit disclosure
about the goals because as 2015 approaches, discussing them
requires a higher degree of specificity. He didn’t say which of
the objectives AIG may fail to accomplish.  “As we get closer to 2015, we feel that comments going
forward are more like guidance rather than a direction that
we’re all working towards,” Benmosche said on the conference
call with analysts. “You can’t run this business with that
degree of accuracy and you all know that.”  MetLife, Ace  MetLife Inc. (MET)  said yesterday that it will stop providing
annual earnings-per-share forecasts as the insurer seeks to
shift investors’ focus to longer-term performance.  Ace Ltd. (ACE)  also
halted the practice of providing such projections to investors.  Investors will probably view AIG’s decision to stop talking
about its aspirational goals as a sign that management is
becoming less confident in the company’s prospects, Josh Stirling, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in a
research note today.  “While the rest of the quarter was a mixed bag,
appropriate for a still discounted, turnaround company making
progress against most areas, this issue will overwhelm most
others in the short term,” Stirling wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Marci Jacobs in New York at 
 mjacobs63@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  