-- Taiwan Dollar Forwards Sink to Four-Week Low as GDP Disappoints
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2013-11-01T02:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/taiwan-dollar-forwards-sink-to-four-week-low-as-gdp-disappoints.html
  Taiwan dollar  forwards dropped to a
four-week low after the government reported worse-than-expected
economic growth and as speculation mounted the U.S. will cut
monetary stimulus this year.  Taiwan’s gross domestic product rose 1.6 percent from a
year earlier in the third quarter, the smallest gain in a year
and less than the 2.6 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey. The  Federal Reserve  said after a policy meeting
this week that the  U.S. economy  shows signs of “underlying
strength” even as it maintained monthly bond purchases of $85
billion. Economists at Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc said the
Fed’s comments raise the possibility of stimulus being scaled
back as early as December.  One-month non-deliverable forwards on the  Taiwan  dollar
declined 0.2 percent this week and 0.1 percent today to
NT$29.384 versus the greenback as of 10:15 a.m. in Taipei,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts touched
NT$29.447, the weakest level since Oct. 3.  “The GDP data was disappointing,” said Andrew Tsai, a
Taipei-based economist at KGI Securities. “Foreign investors
are now anticipating the inflection point where U.S. economic
data strengthens substantively, so fund flows into Taiwan won’t
be as strong as they were in September.”  Global funds bought $449 million more Taiwanese equities
than they sold this week through yesterday, resulting in net
purchases for October of $2.77 billion, exchange data show. That
compares with $4.21 billion in September.  Reported Intervention  In the  spot market , Taiwan’s dollar strengthened 0.1
percent this week and today to NT$29.42 against the greenback,
prices from Taipei Forex Inc. show. The currency closed
yesterday at NT$29.455, having weakened 0.2 percent in the final
12 minutes of trading on suspected central bank intervention.  The monetary authority has sold the local dollar in the
run-up to the close on most days since March 2012, according to
traders who asked not to be identified. The central bank has
been intervening to keep the  exchange rate  from strengthening
beyond NT$29.4, Taipei-based Economic Daily News reported today,
citing unidentified traders.  The yield on the government’s 1.25 percent bonds due
October 2018 climbed one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
this week and today to 1.10 percent, according to Gretai
Securities Market.  One-month implied volatility in the Taiwan dollar, a
gauge of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price
options, fell two basis points this week to 3.22 percent. The
measure increased eight basis points today.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  was little changed
this week and today at 0.388 percent, a weighted average
compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Center showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justina Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  