-- Amazon Without Borders in States Seen Drawing High Court: Taxes
-- B y   E r i n   M c M a n u s
-- 2013-11-01T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/amazon-without-borders-in-states-seen-drawing-high-court-taxes.html
Online merchants and brick-and-mortar
retailers are watching to see if the Supreme Court steps in to
erase a patchwork of state laws governing  sales-tax  collection
from Web-based transactions.  At issue are appeals by  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the top Internet
store, and  Overstock.com Inc. (OSTK)  over a New York state law that
requires taxes be paid on sales through a New York-based
affiliate site, Bloomberg BNA reported. Both had challenged the
statute as unconstitutional in 2008 and lost.  Customers who buy from out-of-state retailers generally
must pay taxes on the purchases. Few do, and states have made
only minimal efforts to collect, instead lobbying Congress for a
national solution. States miss out an estimated $23 billion a
year because sales levies go uncollected. Some have made deals
with Amazon to start charging tax as it adds warehouses.  “Increasing discrepancies in the manner that state courts
address laws governing online retailers is likely to influence
the Supreme Court to hear arguments on the issue,” said Stephen Kranz, a partner at McDermott Will & Emery LLP in  Washington .
“As state-level litigation spreads across the country, so does
the problem. That should encourage the court to hear one or more
of the cases.”  Recent rulings set conflicting precedents in different
states. Lawyers cite Performance Marketing Association Inc. v.
Hamer, which overturned an Illinois law similar to New York’s,
saying it violated the U.S. Internet Tax Freedom Act, which bans
“discriminatory taxes on electronic commerce,” according to a
New York court brief filed Oct. 23.  Conflicting Rulings  Conflicting state court rulings may prompt the justices in
Washington to consider providing a resolution.  “The Illinois decision is clearly and directly contrary
to the New York decision,” Michael Semes of EY LLP said.  In rulings on the separate Overstock and Amazon cases, New
York judges upheld the law, saying the companies “established
an in-state sales force” through affiliates who get commissions
for hosting online links to the retailers. Thomas H. Mattox, New
York’s taxation and finance commissioner, said in March after
the high court ruled that the law was a matter of treating both
types of merchants fairly.  Amazon and Overstock argue that the law violates the
commerce clause of the U.S. Constitution.  “The Illinois decision raises the stakes,” John
Stephenson of the American Legislative Exchange Council said.
“We are beginning to see a patchwork quilt -- a lot of states
are doing different things. We want to know what the rules of
the road are.”  Physical Presence  Amazon and Overstock say the New York statute also violates
the constitution’s due process clause and is in direct conflict
with a 1992 decision, Quill Corp. v. North Dakota ex rel.
Heitkamp, by requiring retailers without a physical presence in
the state to collect sales tax. In Quill, the high court held
that merely advertising in the state didn’t create a sufficient
physical presence to require levy collections.  “The New York decision touches on whether the physical-presence test in Quill is outdated, because the world has
changed dramatically since that decision,” said Jamie
Yesnowitz, a principal at Grant Thornton LLP in Washington.  The physical-presence test still controls the application
of the law, Stephenson said.  The issue also is “ripe for congressional action,” Kranz
said. Lawmakers are considering a bill to require all Internet
merchants and catalog retailers to collect sales taxes on
purchases for governments of areas where their customers are.
The measure passed the U.S. Senate 69-27 in May and is pending
in the House of Representatives.  Divided House  The legislation, supported by the Obama administration,
attracted backers including  Best Buy Co. (BBY) , Amazon and mall
owners. Amazon is expanding distribution operations into more
states to speed deliveries, and pay taxes to some, such as Texas
and  California .  The bill would in effect reverse a 1992 Supreme Court
ruling that barred states from taxing businesses that lack a
physical presence within their borders. Under the measure,
states would be required to join an interstate compact with
streamlined rules or provide software to retailers. Yet it has
divided members of the House, so may not move forward soon.  Which may leave the matter to the high court to decide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erin McManus at  emcmanus@bna.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cheryl Saenz at  csaenz@bna.com . 