-- Manufacturers Shake Off Effect of Budget Impasse: Economy
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-11-01T21:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/manufacturers-shake-off-effect-of-u-s-budget-impasse-economy.html
Manufacturing unexpectedly picked up
in October as American companies shook off the impact of the
federal government shutdown.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  index  rose to 56.4,
the highest since April 2011, from 56.2 a month earlier, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group’s report showed today. Readings above
50 indicate growth. Economists in a Bloomberg  survey  called for
a decline to 55.  Industries from textiles to transportation expanded as
 motor vehicle  purchases and improving export markets underpinned
manufacturing at the start of the fourth quarter. October sales
gains at General Motors Co. and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  signal demand
recovered after a 16-day partial closure of government agencies
that held the economy back.  The shutdown “is unlikely to spill over and affect broader
manufacturing activity,” said Michael Gapen, a senior U.S.
economist in  New York  at Barclays Plc, who projected an ISM
reading of 56. “There’s a potential for us to see a moderate
strengthening in both domestic demand as well as some of the
constraints on global growth may have eased a bit.”  Stocks rose, halting the first two-day drop in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index in three weeks, as optimism about corporate
earnings offset concern that improving economic data could
prompt the  Federal Reserve  to trim stimulus. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.3 percent to 1,761.64 at the close in
New York.  From  China  to  South Korea , manufacturing strengthened last
month in a sign that growth risks are abating in  Asia  and
expansion may pick up this quarter.  Chinese Manufacturing  China’s official factory index of  purchasing managers  rose
to an 18-month high and a measure from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics topped projections. HSBC’s reading for South
Korea showed growth for the first time since May and  Taiwan ’s
PMI gained. An Australian index also advanced.  In the U.K.,  manufacturing  eased in October from a month
earlier. A measure for  Norway  showed a pickup in growth, while
Switzerland, Sweden and  Denmark  showed slower expansions.  Estimates for the U.S. factory index from 83 economists in
the Bloomberg survey ranged from 52.5 to 57.5. Manufacturing
accounts for about 12 percent of the economy. Of the 18
industries covered, 14 reported expansion in October, the ISM
said.  While the partial shutdown of federal agencies last month
failed to slow manufacturing, less  government spending  prompted
economists to cut their fourth-quarter growth forecasts,
according to a survey yesterday.  Fourth Quarter  The world’s largest economy will expand at a 2 percent
annualized rate in the final three months of 2013, less than the
2.4 percent pace projected in an Oct. 4-9 survey of economists.  Sales of cars and light trucks rose 16 percent in the year
ended last month at GM and 14 percent at Ford, while Chrysler
Group LLC reported an 11 percent gain. The results compared with
analysts’ average estimates for increases of 7.9 percent for GM,
16 percent for Ford and 14 percent for Chrysler in a Bloomberg
survey. Vehicles sold at a 15.2 million annualized rate in
October, the same as a month earlier, according to data from
Ward’s Automotive Group.  “What we saw early in the month was some softness, but we
were very encouraged when we saw the retail demand in the
industry bounce back,” John Felice, Ford’s vice president of
U.S. marketing, sales and service, said on a conference call.  New Orders  The ISM’s gauge of U.S.  new orders , which was little
changed in October, has exceeded 60 for three straight months,
the longest such stretch since the start of 2011.  Supplier  delivery times  also lengthened, showing factories
had some difficulty keeping pace with demand, according to an
ISM measure that climbed to the highest level since June 2011. A
gauge of unfilled orders also increased. At the same time,
measures of production and employment cooled.  The report also showed gauges of factory  inventories  and
customer stockpiles rose in October from the prior month.  Improving economies in some parts of the world are
benefiting companies such as  Kennametal Inc. (KMT) , which produces
tools and tooling systems.  “In the U.S., there have been various concerns about the
economy as well as the fiscal budget issues and tax increases as
well as the federal spending sequester,” Carlos Cardoso,
chairman and chief executive officer at Latrobe, Pennsylvania-based Kennametal, said on an Oct. 24 earnings call. “Business
conditions continue to be tentative” even as “the foundation
of a recovery remains strong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  