-- Manziel’s Heisman Brought Texas A&M About $20,000, School Says
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-11-01T13:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/manziel-s-heisman-brought-texas-a-m-about-20-000-school-says.html
Texas A&M University  made only about
$20,000 from Johnny Manziel’s Heisman Trophy last season,
according to the school.  Football tickets and suites were already sold out before
the quarterback, a redshirt freshman a year ago, took a snap.
Radio, television and most sponsorship agreements were locked
into long-term contracts. Booster donations were largely tied to
seat locations.  The only money that can be directly attributed to Manziel
is $20,000 from a football fundraising dinner where donors paid
to sit at his table, and a portion of the team’s $60,000 in
royalties from the sale of football jerseys, said university
spokesman Jason Cook.  “People draw the conclusion that we make millions from
Johnny winning the Heisman,” Athletic Director Eric Hyman said
in an interview. “I’d say we’ve gotten more financial benefit
from joining what’s widely perceived as the best football
 conference  in the country and having a winning program.”  The school’s own analysis shows it got more benefit from
joining the  Southeastern Conference  -- winners of seven
consecutive national championships -- than anything its
quarterback has earned by capturing college football’s highest
individual honor.  “When someone makes the leap that his award has generated
millions for the school, the public assumes it must be,” said
 David Carter , executive director of the Sports Business
Institute at the University of  Southern California . “When you
peel it back and look underneath, you realize most of these
revenue streams are fixed.”  Media Exposure  Last season, the Aggies, who finished 11-2 and tied with
 Georgia  for No. 5 in the Associated Press writers’ poll, got $37
million worth of media exposure between Nov. 10, 2012, and Jan.
6, 2013, according to Joyce Julius & Associates, an  Ann Arbor ,
Michigan-based company that measures the impact of corporate
sponsorships. Eric Wright, president and executive director of
research, said it didn’t measure what the impressions would have
been if Manziel didn’t win the award.  The honor itself probably didn’t help convince high school
players to decide to go to the college, said Hyman, the athletic
director. Instead, the team’s recruiters benefited more from
coach Kevin Sumlin’s up-tempo offense, the team’s national
ranking and an opportunity to play in the SEC.  Television rights, sponsorships and tickets were already
sold before Manziel moved into the starting lineup, and were
little affected by his ascension last season, A&M’s Chief
Financial Officer Jeff Toole said.  Texas A&M  received $9.7 million in TV revenue for the 2012
season, and annual increases have already been determined
through the end of the SEC’s contract in 2023-2024 with CBS and
2033-2034 with ESPN.  Ticket Sales  The school hasn’t sold more tickets; 82,600-seat  Kyle Field 
has been sold out since 2011. Texas A&M increased season ticket
prices between $40 and $50 depending on the section last year
and another $25 to $35 this season. Toole said ticket sales are
expected to generate $25.4 million this season, up from $23.1
million last season because of two additional home games and the
price increases.  “If we had an 11-2 season, won the Cotton Bowl and he
finished third, we’d be doing just as well because we already
sold everything,” Toole said in an interview.  Texas A&M administrators say they can’t attribute increased
attendance or fundraising to Manziel or his Heisman Trophy,
either. Applications increased 9.7 percent to an estimated
34,547 this year, after increases of 5.9 percent and 11.6 the
two previous years.  Joe Pettibon, A&M’s associate vice president for academic
services, said applications have been going up for a decade
because of a growing number of Texas high school graduates, an
extensive statewide recruitment program and a scholarship
program created in 2004.  Renovated Stadium  University fundraising went up 44.4 percent this year to a
record $534.4 million in gifts and pledges through the beginning
of September, partly fueled by a campaign to renovate Kyle Field
that had been planned for several years, said Mark Klemm,
campaign director for the  Texas A&M Foundation .  Asked if the increase in giving this year was any
reflection on Manziel’s Heisman, Klemm said, “You can’t
remotely say that. The planning for the stadium started before
we joined the SEC and before Johnny Manziel became our starting
quarterback. It was just an amazing coincidence of timing.”  As far as expenses, Texas A&M had no Heisman marketing
budget at all, according to spokesman Jason Cook. Instead, the
school let cable television programming, traditional public
relations efforts and mentions on social media spread the word.  Contending Again  Manziel is again in the running for the award, which was
first given to Jay Berwanger of the  University of Chicago  in
1935. He has passed for 2,594 yards and 22 touchdowns this
season, while leading the team with 497 yards rushing.  Texas A&M Foundation President Eddie Davis wrote an
 editorial  in the Texas A&M Foundation magazine Spirit in fall of
2011 titled: “Do Football Victories Influence Giving?”  After reviewing data dating back to 1996, he concluded
there was usually no correlation between the two, noting that
donors often plan a gift for years before giving the school the
money. Nevertheless, he concluded the column with a thought on
why a good football season -- like a Heisman Trophy -- is still
important to the university and its fans.  “And, you know, to hell with the statistics,” he said.
“It just makes us all happier people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  