-- Harbinger Insurer Switches to Iowa Watchdog From Maryland
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2013-11-01T19:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/harbinger-insurer-switches-to-iowa-watchdog-from-maryland.html
Fidelity & Guaranty Life Insurance
Co., run by  Philip Falcone ’s  Harbinger Group Inc. (HRG) , opted to be
supervised by Iowa regulators after an investment plan was
rejected by the company’s previous overseers in  Maryland .  Fidelity switched its legal domicile to Iowa and plans to
employ at least 50 people in Des Moines within three years, the
company said in a statement today. The insurer will maintain
locations in Baltimore and Lincoln,  Nebraska , and start its move
to Iowa by leasing  office space , according to the statement.  Maryland regulators last year rejected as too risky a plan
by Fidelity to invest $1 billion in junk-rated assets in a trust
overseen by Falcone. That ruling didn’t play a role in the
decision to switch domiciles, Paul Tyler, a Fidelity spokesman,
said in an interview today.  “The Iowa insurance department is really familiar with the
products we sell and the markets we’re in,” Tyler said. “The
state invests a lot of resources in the  insurance industry .”  Wall Street money managers from  Apollo Global Management
LLC (APO)  to Guggenheim Partners LLC have shaken up the life insurance
industry by buying businesses that sell retirement products such
as annuities.  Benjamin Lawsky , the New York insurance regulator,
said in a speech this year that he’s concerned the phenomenon
may put customers at risk.  Maryland’s Response  Falcone is chairman and chief executive officer of New
York-based Harbinger Group, which also sells Rayovac batteries
and invests in natural gas fields. A hedge-fund manager who
became a billionaire by betting against the U.S. housing market
in 2006, Falcone agreed in August to a five-year ban from the
securities industry to settle Securities & Exchange Commission
claims, including one that he improperly borrowed money from his
fund to pay personal taxes.  S. Lynn Beckner, the chief financial analyst at the
Maryland Insurance Administration, had no objection to the
switch in domiciles.  “However, we would like to bring the following information
to your attention,” Beckner wrote in a Sept. 6 letter to  Iowa 
counterparts, noting the SEC settlement and the rejection of the
investment plan. Beckner said Maryland officials were evaluating
whether to take their own regulatory action against Fidelity in
light of the SEC settlement.  Falcone is in the process of liquidating the assets managed
by his hedge-fund firm, Harbinger Capital Partners LLC, which
along with affiliates  controls  most of Harbinger Group’s stock.  Insurance units of both Apollo and  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc.
have opted to switch regulators.  Apollo, Goldman  Apollo’s annuities vehicle, Athene Holding Ltd., bought
Liberty Life Insurance Co. in  South Carolina  in 2011. As a
condition of the purchase, Liberty agreed to a series of
restrictions on its investing activities. Later that year, the
new owners switched Liberty’s legal domicile to  Delaware .  The Delaware regulators later dropped some of the
restrictions. New York-based Apollo, run by billionaire  Leon Black , is one of the world’s largest private-equity firms.  Goldman Sachs, the New York investment bank, set up an
insurance subsidiary in South Carolina in 2004. In 2008, after
it failed to win regulators’ permission for an investment they
deemed too risky, Goldman Sachs switched the insurer’s domicile
to Washington, D.C. The new regulator allowed the investments to
take place.  Few Fidelity employees will relocate to Iowa, Tyler said.
Most hiring there will be to fill new positions or vacancies
created by attrition in other locations, Tyler said. Fidelity
currently has about 180 employees, mostly in Baltimore, he said.  MetLife, Principal  Fidelity Chief Executive Officer Leland Launer and Chairman
Phil Gass don’t plan to move to Iowa, Tyler said. Neither of
those individuals is currently based in the Baltimore
headquarters, he said.  Iowa regulators have broad experience with Fidelity
products such as fixed index annuities and fixed index universal
life, Tyler said. Competitors Athene, MetLife Inc.,  Principal
Financial Group Inc. (PFG) , and ING Groep NV operate Iowa-regulated
units, he said.  Fidelity & Guaranty Life, a holding company that contains
the business that moved to Iowa, filed in August for an initial
public offering. The insurer is seeking a valuation of at least
$1 billion, two people involved with the planning said that
month.  As a result of the SEC settlement, Lawsky, the New York
regulator, said last month that Falcone and employees of his
hedge fund were barred from being officers or directors of
Fidelity, or of exercising direct or indirect control over the
insurance company’s operations or investments. Iowa adopted
similar language in its approval of the new domicile, said Tom Alger, a spokesman for the state’s regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  