-- Asahi Unit, Tingyi to Form China Baby Milk Tie-Up on High Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-01T09:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/asahi-unit-tingyi-to-form-china-baby-milk-tie-up-on-high-demand.html
Asahi Group (2502)  Holdings Ltd., the
Japanese beermaker, said it will form a joint venture with
Tingyi ( Cayman Islands ) Holding Corp. to start importing its
milk formula into China next spring.  Asahi’s Wakodo baby nutrition unit signed an agreement in
October to form the venture in Shanghai, which will have a
market capitalization of $5 million, according to a statement
from the Japanese company today. Asahi would own 55 percent of
the tie-up, while the Chinese food company would own the rest.  The Japanese company said it is importing infant formula
into China because of a rising demand for high-quality products
in the world’s most populous nation amid food safety concerns.  China’s infant-formula market is expected to expand more
than 70 percent to 133.5 billion  yuan  ($22 billion) by 2015,
according to Euromonitor International. The industry is
currently dominated by international companies including  Mead
Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN)  and Danone.  Chinese consumers’ distrust of local milk has driven them
to source products overseas or turn to foreign brands after milk
powder tainted by chemical melamine killed six infants in China
in 2008.  Asahi’s announcement comes as its domestic rival Meiji Co.,
the Japanese confectioner and dairy products company, said last
month it would pull out of the infant nutrition market in the
world’s second-largest economy due to rising costs and
intensified competition.  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest dairy
exporter, said last week it will introduce its first baby milk
formula across China as it expands its consumer business there.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in  Shanghai  at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  