-- ATMI Hires Barclays to Explore Options as Stock Surges
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-11-01T20:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/atmi-said-to-seek-buyer-in-sale-that-may-fetch-1-billion.html
ATMI Inc. (ATMI) , facing a shrinking
customer list for its semiconductor and display materials
businesses, hired  Barclays Capital  to explore strategic options.  The possibilities include a sale of the Danbury,
Connecticut-based company, which may fetch $1 billion, said a
person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named
because the discussions are private. There’s no guarantee that
the process will lead to a transaction, ATMI said in a statement
today. The stock jumped 5.6 percent.  ATMI Chief Executive Officer Douglas Neugold has sought to
cut costs after demand for the company’s materials waned in some
markets such as microelectronic wafers. ATMI said in October
that third-quarter operating profit dropped 46 percent to $11
million as sales declined 7.9 percent to $100.2 million.  A combination with another company makes sense as it would
allow ATMI to offer clients a wider range of products, said
Patrick Ho, an analyst for Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in  Dallas .
Samsung Electronics Co., Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.
and  Intel Corp . are increasingly dominating spending on
equipment, forcing their suppliers to get together to avoid
missing out on a decreasing number of larger orders, he said.  Narrower Base  “The further you go down the supply chain, the less
leverage you have,” said Ho, who covers companies that supply
the chipmaking industry. “It’s becoming a narrower base of who
the big spenders are.” Ho said ATMI, which he doesn’t cover
directly, would do better in combination with a peer that either
supplies raw materials or parts for chipmaking equipment.  Neugold said Oct. 23 he’s confident that industry growth
will result in improved orders for ATMI as companies it serves
prepare to increase production for technological advances.  ATMI shares  rose to $28.88 in  New York  after Bloomberg
first reported that the company was exploring a sale. That
extended the stock’s gain this year to 38 percent, giving ATMI a
 market value  of almost $920 million.  Other companies producing solutions and materials for
circuit boards and flat panels include Aurora, Illinois-based
 Cabot Microelectronics Corp. (CCMP) , with a market value of about $950
million, and  AZ Electronic Materials SA (AZEM) , based in Luxembourg,
currently worth 1.08 billion euros ($1.46 billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  