-- Bangkok Protests May Escalate as Thai Government Pushes Amnesty
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2013-11-01T08:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/bangkok-protests-may-escalate-as-thai-government-pushes-amnesty.html
Thailand ’s biggest opposition party
said as many as 50,000 people joined protests yesterday to
oppose an amnesty law for political offenses, and predicted
numbers will swell today after a contentious parliamentary vote.  The bill was passed by the lower house in a session that
ended about 4:30 a.m. today. Lawmakers from the opposition
Democrat party staged a walkout, saying they weren’t given an
opportunity to debate its most controversial sections.  “We expect to attract more people tonight because what
happened in parliament was so abnormal,” Sathit Wongnongtoei, a
Democrat member of parliament, said by phone, adding that 40,000
to 50,000 people attended a rally organized by the party near
Bangkok’s Samsen train station overnight. “They voted to
support the bill without listening to our protests.”  The government says the bill will heal political divisions
caused by a military coup in 2006 that ousted then-Prime
Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra , the brother of current leader
Yingluck Shinawatra, who commands a majority in parliament. Some
opponents say the law is designed to whitewash crimes Thaksin
committed while in office, and others oppose the legislation
because it would protect politicians who ordered a deadly
crackdown on pro-Thaksin demonstrators in 2010.  Thai police estimated about 8,000 people attended the rally
last night, well below Democrat party estimates, and previous
demonstrations by groups opposed to government efforts to change
the post-coup constitution have failed to attract widespread
support.  Still, “there are signs that the situation will escalate,
and if the political situation turns violent it will affect the
economy significantly,” said Somprawin Manprasert, deputy dean
of the economics faculty at Bangkok’s  Chulalongkorn University .
A return of violent clashes could curb quarterly economic growth
by as much as half a percentage point, he said in an interview.  Export Slowdown  The baht weakened 0.2 percent to 31.195 per dollar at 3:22
p.m. local time, extending this week’s retreat to 0.6 percent.
The benchmark SET Index of stocks declined 1 percent, poised for
its lowest close since Oct. 7.  Yingluck’s administration is struggling to spur an economy
that’s facing  slowing demand  for its electronics, seafood and
rubber. The central bank last week pared its estimate for gross
domestic product growth this year to 3.7 percent, from a July
projection of 4.2 percent, and efforts to bolster growth with
$64 billion of state spending on infrastructure have stalled.  Parties linked to Thaksin have won the past five elections
on support from rural areas, including the 2011 vote that
brought his sister to power. Demonstrations by Thaksin’s
supporters and opponents since 2006 have led to an airport
seizure, business center blockages and arson attacks in Bangkok.  Red Shirts  The amnesty bill has drawn critics on both sides of the
country’s ideological divide, including some members of the  Red
Shirts , a pro-Thaksin group of mostly rural voters who argue
that government officials who ordered a bloody crackdown in 2010
shouldn’t escape prosecution.  Former Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva , now an opposition
leader who faces murder charges for authorizing soldiers to use
weapons during the 2010 unrest, has rallied supporters to
protest the legislation, even though he himself would benefit
from the amnesty.  Abhisit in August said the bill will undermine the
judiciary by freeing people who were convicted of serious
criminal acts, and may lead to a pardon for Thaksin, who fled a
two-year jail sentence for graft in 2008 and has lived in self-imposed exile overseas. His Democrat party separately opposed
changes to an article in the constitution that gave an amnesty
to generals for staging the 2006 coup against Thaksin.  ‘Shameful Action’  The Democrat party said today the amnesty bill will
probably be proposed to the Senate on Nov. 4 and pass by Nov.
26. It will then ask the  Constitutional Court  to decide whether
it breaches the charter, said Thavorn Senniam, an opposition
member of parliament.  “This is not the end,” said  Somjai Phagaphasvivat , a
political science lecturer at Thammasat University in Bangkok.
“It’s clear that this draft bill is totally against the rule of
law, freeing those convicts. It’s against the constitution.”  Thousands more will join the protest today, Democrat
spokesman Chavanond Intarakomalyasut said.  “This is a shameful action for parliament and it’s like
the Thai people got slapped by Yingluck and trampled by
Thaksin,” Chavanond said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  