-- Banks Fret Over Fed’s Planned Liquidity Requirement: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-11-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/banks-fret-over-fed-s-planned-liquidity-requirement-muni-credit.html
U.S. banks led by  JPMorgan Chase (JPM)  &
Co. and  Wells Fargo (WFC)  & Co. have bought a record amount of
municipal debt. That demand is now at risk under a Federal
Reserve proposal that excludes local bonds from a list of easy-to-sell assets.  Banks added $63 billion of the securities in the year
through June, more than any category of buyer, helping lower
state and city borrowing costs as individuals yanked a record
amount of cash from muni mutual funds, Fed data show. The
companies hold about  $390 billion  of munis, the most since at
least 1945 and about 10.5 percent of the market. Three years
earlier, they owned about 6 percent.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank, more than doubled its
holdings in that period, to $37 billion, outpacing seven other
banks reviewed by Bloomberg. The industry’s appetite may drop
and yields climb if the Fed plan is implemented, according to
analysts from JPMorgan,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Municipal Market
Advisors. Some banks may have bought on the assumption the bonds
would satisfy liquidity rules, Peter DeGroot, a strategist at
JPMorgan in  New York , said in an Oct. 25 report.  “If it causes them to change the way they are accounted
for in the bank portfolios, that could be significant for the
muni market because it’s reducing the demand,” said Daniel Solender, director of munis in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , for Lord
Abbett & Co., which manages $16.5 billion of local debt.  Cash Destination  Banks have directed more cash to state and local debt as
they have fewer opportunities to extend commercial and home
loans after the financial crisis, said  Marty Mosby , a bank
analyst with Guggenheim Securities LLC in Hernando,  Mississippi .  The Fed on Oct. 24 said some banks should be required to
hold enough assets that are easy to sell during a 30-day credit
crunch. While the central bank included Treasuries, certain
sovereign debt and publicly traded investment-grade corporate
securities among assets that would meet the proposed rule, it
excluded state and local debt.  The requirements are intended to satisfy global rules
making the financial system less vulnerable to periods of stress
similar to the credit freeze after Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s bankruptcy filing in 2008.  January Deadline  “This is going to increase the market’s reliance on a
rebound in mutual-fund buying,” said Matt Fabian, a managing
director at Concord, Massachusetts-based research firm Municipal
Market Advisors.  Under the proposal, the rule would phase in starting in
2015, with full compliance in 2017, according to the Fed notice.
The public comment period ends on Jan. 31.  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a Fed spokeswoman in  Washington ,
referred to the central bank’s notice on the proposal.  “The agencies believe that, at this time, these assets are
not liquid and readily marketable,” the notice says. “For
example, securities issued by public-sector entities generally
have low average daily trading volumes.”  About $10.4 billion of munis traded daily on average last
month, according to Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board data.
That compares with about $19.5 billion of investment-grade and
high-yield corporate debt, data from the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority show.  Loss Feeder  The $3.7 trillion municipal market has already lost 2.4
percent this year, the worst performance since 2008,  Bank of
America  Merrill Lynch data show. Local debt has suffered along
with other fixed-income assets amid bets a growing economy will
lead the Fed to curb its bond-buying program.  “The rule raises the yield at which this important group
of counter-cyclical buyers would provide liquidity,” DeGroot
said in his report. “General-obligation bond spreads may
experience some pressure over the near term as these assets may
have been positioned with the assumption that they would be
included” among eligible assets, he said.  The proposal would consider corporate bonds rated one level
above junk as liquid assets while excluding state general-obligation debt, Chris Mauro, head of muni strategy at  RBC
Capital Markets  in New York, said in an Oct. 30 report.  Moody’s Investors Service’s average general-obligation
rating among states it grades is one step below the top,
according to  David Jacobson , a spokesman.  Disruption Denial  “It’s just hard to believe there would be no market for
triple-A state general obligations during a period of credit
disruption,” Mauro said in an interview.  The Fed’s proposal also excludes letters of credit that
banks extend to variable-rate munis for additional security,
Mauro said. Such a move may push up costs for that financing
method, he said.  Well-known entities such as states and large cities and
issuers rated one or two levels below top-rated borrowers trade
frequently, Solender said.  “The higher-grade parts of our market have a lot of
liquidity,” Solender said. “There’s a lot of demand for them
right now.”  Top-rated munis have lost 1.2 percent this year, about half
the decline of the average city and state bond this year, Bank
of America data show.  Individual Reliance  Individuals hold about 70 percent of munis either directly
or through mutual funds, and decreased bank demand would extend
the market’s reliance on those buyers, Michael Zezas, chief muni
strategist at Morgan Stanley in New York, said in an Oct. 29
report.  JPMorgan boosted its holdings from $14.7 billion three
years ago, based on its securities portfolio and trading
account, according to quarterly filings. The 152 percent
increase is the biggest among the eight banks reviewed.  Justin Perras , a spokesman, declined to comment.  San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, the fourth-largest U.S.
bank, increased state and local debt to $43 billion from $17.8
billion in the same period. Ancel Martinez, a company spokesman,
declined to comment.  Pittsburgh-based  PNC Financial Services Group (PNC)  Inc., the
second-biggest U.S. regional bank, had $2.2 billion of munis as
of June 30, up from $1.3 billion three years earlier.  Fred Solomon , a spokesman, declined to comment.  Trend Buster  Some banks are going against the trend. Bank of America’s
muni assets fell 30 percent to about $5 billion during the
period, even though the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank has
added in each of the last three quarters.  Jerry Dubrowski , a
spokesman, declined to comment.  Citigroup (C)  Inc. held $21.8 billion of munis, down almost 2
percent from June 2010. Scott Helfman, a spokesman for the New
York-based bank, declined to comment.  In the municipal market this week, issuers are set to sell
about $5 billion in long-term debt with benchmark yields at a
four-month low, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  interest rate  on AAA 10-year munis is  2.64 percent , the
lowest since June 21. That compares with  2.55 percent  on
similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 104 percent, compared with an average of  94 percent  since
2001. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with
federal debt.  Following is a pending sale:  Massachusetts plans to sell about $288 million in highway
grant-anticipation notes backed by federal aid next week,
Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  