-- Bankrupt Jefferson County Selling $1.7 Billion in Debt
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-11-01T20:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/bankrupt-jefferson-county-selling-1-7-billion-in-debt.html
Jefferson County, Alabama, plans to
market $1.7 billion in sewer-refinancing bonds as soon as next
week as part of its plan to exit from bankruptcy, county
commission President  David Carrington  said.  The county has asked that a hearing on the bankruptcy be
postponed until Nov. 20 to allow time to sell the debt,
Carrington said in an e-mailed statement.  “We are going to aggressively sell these warrants over the
next two weeks,” Carrington said in an interview yesterday.
“There is a strong appetite for this offering.”  The plan calls for selling $500 million of senior bonds and
$1.2 billion in subordinated debt. About $1.1 billion of the
bonds will pay interest on a periodic basis, while more than
$480 million will be zero-coupon debt that can convert to
securities that pay interest periodically, according to a county
document.  Underwriters led by  Citigroup Inc. (C)  will be paid $11.7
million, including legal fees and other expenses, according to
the document.  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  will insure $500 million of the
senior debt under the agreement, according to a statement from
Carrington yesterday.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  will provide a 40-year letter of credit that allows the county to avoid borrowing
to fund the debt-service reserve, according to the statement.  Hedge Funds  Under a July proposal by Citigroup, the county will market
the debt to mutual funds,  hedge funds  and money managers that
focus on high-yield bonds. The hedge funds include  Och-Ziff
Capital (OZM)  Management LLC and Moore Capital Management LLC, while
high-yield-focused managers include Claren Road Asset Management
LLC and Fundamental Advisors LP.  The offering is a result of a deal reached Oct. 30 between
the county and its creditors. It replaces a settlement reached
in June. Rising interest rates made the original deal
unworkable.  The interest  rate  on BBB rated 30-year muni revenue bonds
has declined to 7.16 percent from a 30-month high of 7.49
percent on Sept. 6, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Jefferson County officials will host an investor meeting
and tour on Nov. 7, said Lyle Fitterer, a managing director at
Wells Capital Management in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin.
Uninsured sewer debt offered by the county will probably be
rated below investment grade, he said.  “It’s one we’re going to look at,” Fitterer said.  In evaluating the new bonds, Wells will look at the
security of the revenue stream as well as sewer system
management and Alabama politics, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  