-- Barclays Said to Suspend Chief FX Dealer Ashton Amid Probe
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-11-01T16:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/barclays-said-to-suspend-chief-fx-dealer-chris-ashton-amid-probe.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  has suspended three
currency traders, including a chief dealer in London, amid a
probe into potential foreign-exchange manipulation, according to
a person with knowledge of the decision.  Chris Ashton, who was identified as global head of voice
spot trading in a Barclays e-mail last month, and spot currency
traders Jack Murray and Mark Clark were suspended, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to speak publicly about the matter. None of the three
has been accused of any wrongdoing, said the person.  Ashton didn’t respond to messages left on his work or
mobile telephones, and didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking
comment. Murray and Clark didn’t return messages left on their
work telephones or reply to e-mails. Barclays, one of the four
biggest currency traders in the world, is reviewing trading over
several years and is cooperating with regulators’ requests for
information, according to a statement.  Regulators in the U.K., Switzerland, the U.S. and Asia are
probing the $5.3 trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market after
Bloomberg News reported in June that dealers in the industry
said they had been front-running client orders and attempting to
rig the benchmark WM/Reuters rates by colluding with
counterparts and pushing through trades before and during the
60-second windows when the benchmarks are set. Firms across the
industry and regulators have been reviewing records of instant
messages, e-mails, phone calls and trading data.  RBS Traders  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Britain’s biggest
publicly owned bank, has suspended London-based foreign exchange
traders Paul Nash and Julian Munson as part of its internal
investigation, a person with knowledge of the matter said today.
Neither could be reached at their office numbers or replied to
e-mails seeking comment. Neither has been accused of any
wrongdoing, the person said.  “We will come down very severely on anyone who we discover
is breaking the rules,” RBS Chief Executive Officer Ross McEwan, 56, told reporters on a conference call today. He
declined to comment on the suspended traders.  In  London , three of the most senior traders in the industry
have been put on leave. Citigroup Inc.’s head of European spot
trading, Rohan Ramchandani, was told this week he will be placed
on leave while Richard Usher, a former RBS trader who became
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s chief dealer in London, went on leave two
weeks ago, people with knowledge of the investigations have
said.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  has also placed Matt Gardiner, its
assistant chief dealer in the U.K. capital, on leave, another
person said.  Citigroup, JPMorgan  Both Citigroup and JPMorgan said in statements today
they’re cooperating with government agencies in the U.S. and
elsewhere probing the currency markets.  In Europe, Deutsche Bank AG said this week it’s cooperating
with regulators, while Switzerland’s  UBS AG (UBSN)  said Oct. 29 it’s
taking measures against employees. The Zurich-based firm didn’t
identify or quantify the number of employees involved, or say
what actions it took.  Four banks account for more than half of the foreign-exchange market, according to a May survey by Euromoney
Institutional Investor Plc. Deutsche Bank is No. 1 with a 15
percent share, followed by Citigroup  with almost 15 percent and
Barclays and Switzerland’s UBS, which both have 10 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  