-- Barclays Lawsuits Over K1 Fund Ponzi-Scheme Combined in Germany
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-11-01T14:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/barclays-lawsuits-over-k1-fund-ponzi-scheme-combined-in-germany.html
Lawsuits against  Barclays (BARC)  Plc over
certificates linked to the 345 million-euro ($466 million)
Ponzi-scheme fraud by Helmut Kiener’s K1 hedge fund will be
combined in Germany.  The Frankfurt Regional Court said cases against the bank
will be bundled. The investors argue London-based Barclays
failed to properly investigate the X1 Global Index certificates
it had issued which were linked to Kiener, according to court
documents.  Kiener, the founder of K1 Group, was convicted in 2011 of
defrauding investors and sentenced to 10 years and eight months
in prison after confessing to using new investors’ money to make
up for losses. Barclays and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA lost a combined 223
million euros and private investors suffered about 122 million
euros of losses on products linked to the fund, German
prosecutors said at the time.  Barclays “indicated that it reviewed the setup, process
flow and handling of the certificates and determined them as
feasible,” the court wrote. “The terms mirror what diligence
the customer can expect from a bank before issuing a
certificate.”  The combined case will move to the Frankfurt Higher
Regional Court to determine whether the certificate’s terms were
incomplete or incorrect. The court will also have to decide
whether time limitations bar the claims. About 150 lawsuits over
the certificates have been filed in Frankfurt and Munich, a
lawyer for the plaintiffs said in January.  Unfounded Allegations  The allegations are unfounded and the plaintiffs are
misusing the legal procedure for combining the cases, Barclays
had argued, according to the ruling.  Jon Laycock, a spokesman for the bank, declined to
immediately comment.  Kiener’s personal assets have been placed in insolvency
proceedings in  Germany . X1 Fund Allocation GmbH, a Hamburg-based
K1 company, was put in administration in 2009. Barclays issued
notes in 2005 and 2007 with X1 Fund Allocation as the investment
manager.  The case is LG Frankfurt am Main, 2-12 OH 4/13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 