-- Barrick Gold Sells Shares to Fix Balance Sheet
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-11-01T20:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/barrick-gold-sells-shares-to-fix-balance-sheet-corporate-canada.html
     Nov. 1 (Bloomberg ) --  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  is raising at
least $3 billion in  Canada ’s biggest equity issue since 2009 and
shelving its embattled Pascua-Lama project as the miner
scrambles to reduce debt after the metal plunged this year.  Barrick, the world’s largest gold miner, said yesterday it
agreed to sell at least 163.5 million shares for $18.35 apiece.
News of the share sale came hours after Barrick said it was
suspending construction at Pascua-Lama, a $8.5 billion mine on
the Argentina-Chile border. Barrick fell 7.1 percent to close at
$18.01 today in  New York .  The Toronto-based company has come under pressure after
gold prices fell 22 percent this year and debt increased. Chief
Executive Officer Jamie Sokalsky has explored other cash-raising
options ranging from a strategic equity investment to a sale of
a stake in its copper business or Pascua-Lama, people with
knowledge of the matter said Oct. 30. The equity sale may signal
a shifting outlook for gold prices at Barrick, said  John Goldsmith , at Montrusco Bolton Investment Inc. in Toronto.  “It signals that Barrick’s board, at the margin, has
become much more bearish on commodity prices,” Goldsmith, who
helps manage about C$5.6 billion ($5.4 billion), said in a phone
interview. “To come out with a deal as dilutive as this is,
views must have changed somewhere among top-level management and
the board.”  ‘Difficult to Assess’  The sale is being underwritten by a group led by  RBC
Capital Markets , Barclays Plc and GMP Securities LP. There’s an
over-allotment option that means the sale could fetch as much as
$3.45 billion.  “This equity issue could be demonstrating financial
prudence or it could suggest that 2014 operating results will be
weaker than the market currently expects,” John Bridges, a New
York-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a note.
“Without detailed production and cost guidance for the next few
years, it’s difficult to assess the reasoning.”  Andy Lloyd , a Barrick spokesman, declined to comment on the
offering beyond yesterday’s statements.  The deal will be the second-largest share sale in Canada,
after Barrick’s $4.03 billion financing in September 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The offer price in that
deal was $36.95 a share.  Bonds Buyback  Barrick plans to use $2.6 billion of the proceeds from its
latest offering to buy back bonds. Its long-term debt rose 20
percent to $14.6 billion this year through the end of September.
Keeping an investment-grade credit rating is important to the
company, Chief Financial Officer Ammar Al-Joundi said yesterday
on its third-quarter earnings call, before the sale was
announced.  The share sale is “prudent,” said  David West , a Toronto-based analyst at Salman Partners Inc., who rates Barrick a hold
with a C$21.50 price target.  “They’re carrying much more debt than they’re comfortable
with,” West said in a phone interview. “With the lower gold
price, this is really an opportunity for Barrick to do a reset
financially.”  In April, Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s 
cut their ratings on Barrick’s credit to the second-lowest
investment grade. Moody’s and S&P cited problems the miner was
having with Pascua-Lama. Barrick may have come under more
pressure from the ratings companies, said Kerry Smith, a
Toronto-based analyst at Haywood Securities Inc.  Credit Ratings  “I thought maybe with the deferral of Pascua-Lama they
might not have to do anything but I guess they are worried about
their credit ratings,” Smith said yesterday.  Construction at Pascua-Lama, located more than 12,000 feet
(3,657 meters) up in the Andes mountains, was already partially
halted amid concerns from local groups about potential water
contamination. Barrick said yesterday that all activity except
that needed for environmental protection and regulatory
compliance will cease.  A restart will depend on future costs, gold prices and the
regulatory and legal outlook, the company said. Barrick needs
more confidence in the mine’s risk-adjusted returns before it
will proceed, Sokalsky said on the earnings call.  Sokalsky, who was appointed CEO in June 2012, has already
announced a series of measures to bolster profits and conserve
cash following gold’s decline. His moves to slim the company
through mine sales, budget cuts and job reductions represent a
reversal of three decades of expansion at Barrick.  ‘Difficult Hand’  The suspension of work at Pascua-Lama will cut  capital
spending  in 2014 by as much as $1 billion and will improve near-term cash flows, he said yesterday. Barrick also said it’s
targeting $500 million of additional annual savings from
measures including an organizational restructuring, which
involves cutting 1,850 jobs.  “You cannot argue with the fact that Sokalsky was dealt a
very difficult hand of cards,” Robert Gill, a Toronto-based
 fund manager  at Aston Hill Financial Inc., which manages C$8
billion, including Barrick shares, said by phone before the
equity sale was announced. “They have to look at all the
options available to them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  