-- Batista 11th-Hour Sale Needs Creditor Approval, Lawyer Says
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-11-01T20:42:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/batista-eleventh-hour-sale-needs-creditor-approval-lawyer-says.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) ’s
agreement to sell its only producing asset for $154 million
hours before a bankruptcy filing will need to be approved by
creditors, said a lawyer advising OGX.  The deal requires approval under a judicial recovery plan
that OGX filed Oct. 30, Eduardo Munhoz, a partner at Mattos
Filho Veiga Filho Marrey Jr. & Quiroga Advogados that is an
adviser to OGX, said in a text message from Sao Paulo.  The first Brazilian oil producer to seek protection from
creditors reached an accord to sell its stake in OGX Maranhao
Petroleo e Gas SA Oct. 30, according to a copy of the bankruptcy
protection petition. Brazilian private equity fund Cambuhy
Investimentos Ltda and  Germany ’s EON SE will buy the OGX stake
in two stages in a transaction worth 594 million reais ($264
million), the company said yesterday in a  regulatory filing .  “Creditors can just not approve it and it won’t happen,”
Munhoz said.  OGX, controlled by former billionaire  Eike Batista , has
about 11.2 billion reais in total debt, according to its filing.  The $154 million OGX would get from the sale is less than
the $173 million the company said in a document Oct. 7 it
expected to get by selling the unit to  Eneva SA (ENEV3) , the Brazilian
utility controlled by EON and Batista.  Bank Creditors  Cambuhy, based in Sao Paulo, will buy 200 million reais of
new Maranhao stock in a 250 million-real capital increase, with
EON, Germany’s largest utility, purchasing the rest. Cambuhy
will then buy OGX’s remaining stake for 200 million reais. OGX
will also receive a 144 million-real payment from the natural
gas producer to settle outstanding debt, it said.  Cambuhy has agreed to buy out the natural gas company from
OGX’s three bank creditors if it doesn’t complete the purchase
of OGX’s stake and lenders execute guarantees, Eneva  said 
yesterday. The private equity firm was established in 2011 by
the billionaire chairman of Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Pedro Moreira Salles. The company didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking
comment on the acquisition.  When the transaction is completed, Cambuhy will have a 73
percent stake in Maranhao, while Eneva will have 18 percent and
EON the remaining 9 percent, the Rio de Janeiro-based utility
said. The companies will run the venture through a new
shareholders agreement.  OGX  rose  7.7 percent to 14 centavos in  Sao Paulo  at the
close today, rebounding from yesterday’s record-low. Eneva fell
5.8 percent to 4.24 reais.  EON became Eneva’s largest holder on May 29 and increased
its stake in a private placement on July 4, three days after OGX
said it would probably have to shut its only producing oil
field, and Batista was replaced as Eneva chairman.  Parnaiba Expansion  Maranhao, in which Eneva has a 33.3 percent stake, operates
eight blocks in  Brazil ’s Parnaiba basin, producing gas for the
utility’s thermoelectric plants in the region. Its Gaviao Real
gas field is Brazil’s eighth largest by production, according to
the country’s oil regulator.  OGX’s share of gas output from Maranhao was 2.1 million
cubic meters a day in September, equivalent to 13,200 barrels of
oil a day, the company said Oct. 10.  The entry of Cambuhy will stabilize the venture and support
Eneva’s power generation operations in the Parnaiba complex, EON
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “Its investment will
increase the gas supply security and support the expansion plans
of the Parnaiba gas fields,” the company said.  OGX’s divestment is subject to conditions including the
approval by Brazilian antitrust authorities, the oil regulators
and the company’s creditors, the Batista unit said. OGX’s press
office in Rio declined to comment further than yesterday’s
 statement .  The filing by OGX puts $3.6 billion of dollar bonds into
default in the largest corporate debt debacle on record in  Latin
America  and culminates a 16-month decline that wiped out more
than $30 billion of Batista’s personal fortune.  Revenue Potential  “OGX has operating problems as its assets don’t generate
revenue, and the company couldn’t survive without creditor
support,” Caetano Berenguer, a partner at law firm Sergio
Bermudes that represents OGX, said in a telephone interview from
Rio. “OGX has the potential to generate revenue soon.”  Batista founded OGX in 2007 and it became the pillar of his
group of commodities and logistics companies. OGX’s initial
success finding oil in shallow waters off the coast of Rio
sparked a stock market rally that made it more valuable than
other established producers including Repsol SA.  When OGX moved from exploration to production it
encountered more complicated and compartmentalized geology than
expected and started abandoning projects it had previously
declared commercial.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  