-- Brazilian Real Heads for Its Biggest Weekly Decline Since August
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-11-01T12:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/brazilian-real-heads-for-its-biggest-weekly-decline-since-august.html
Brazil ’s real was headed for its
biggest weekly drop since August as the government budget
deficit added to concern that the nation faces a credit rating
cut and the central bank limited the rollover of currency swaps.  The real declined 2.3 percent to 2.2396 per  U.S. dollar 
this week as of 9:42 a.m. in  Sao Paulo  and was little changed
today. Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 climbed
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 10.60 percent
and increased 13 basis points for the week.  Brazil extended the maturities on only about $6 billion of
the $8.9 billion of foreign-exchange swaps maturing today in
rollover auctions over the past two weeks. The swaps, sold to
strengthen the real and curb import price increases, helped fuel
a 9 percent rally in the currency since the central bank
announced its intervention program Aug. 22, the biggest among
all of the world’s dollar counterparts.  “The news about the fiscal deficit continues to worry
people a lot,” Mauricio Junqueira, who helps oversee 750
million reais at Tese Gestao de Investimentos, said by phone
from  Rio de Janeiro . “The partial rollover of the swaps had a
bigger effect yesterday, but today there’s a continuation of
this movement.”  The central bank reported yesterday a budget deficit of
22.9 billion reais in September, wider than the 19.3 billion
reais median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
gap was 23.3 billion reais in February, the deepest since the
global financial crisis in December 2008. As a percentage of
gross domestic product, the deficit increased to 3.3 percent,
the largest since 2009.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in Brasilia
yesterday that the government is always looking for ways to cut
costs to meet fiscal targets.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s
Investors Service lowered their outlooks this year on Brazil’s
credit, which both companies rate at two levels above junk.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  