-- Brazil Joins Germany in Seeking UN Probe of U.S. Spying
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-11-01T22:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/brazil-joins-germany-in-seeking-un-probe-of-u-s-spying.html
Brazil and  Germany  are pushing for a
 United Nations  inquiry scrutinizing the U.S. National Security
Agency for possible violations of  privacy rights  in surveillance
activities at home and abroad.  Diplomats from the two countries today began circulating a
draft resolution calling on the UN High Commissioner for Human
Rights to investigate “the protection of the right to privacy
in the context of domestic and extraterritorial, including
massive, surveillance of communications, their interception and
collection of personal data,” according to a copy obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  They began work on the text last week amid expressions of
outrage over revelations the NSA may have tapped German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s mobile phone and eavesdropped on
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ’s private communications.  Reports about the surveillance were based on material
provided by former U.S. intelligence contractor Edward Snowden,
who today offered to testify before the German parliament.
Merkel sent a team of intelligence officials to the White House
this week to “rebuild trust” with the U.S., according to the
chancellery.  The draft text will be orally presented next week before
the  United Nations General Assembly ’s committee on social and
humanitarian affairs, said a UN diplomat involved in the
process, who asked not to be identified as a matter of policy.  ‘Best Practices’  German and Brazilian delegations have held meetings with
other European and Latin American countries, so far securing
initial interest from  France , Cuba,  Mexico  and Venezuela as
possible cosponsors of the resolution, according to a second UN
diplomat who asked not to be identified due to the sensitivity
of the matter.  Over the next two years, the UN’s  human rights  chief should
present a report each year “identifying and clarifying
principles, standards and best practices on how to address
security concerns” without violating international human rights
law, specifically monitoring “digital communications and the
use of other intelligence technologies,” according to the text.  Though resolutions adopted by the General Assembly aren’t
binding, the Brazilian-German proposal would provide a forum for
dozens of countries to express discontent with the U.S.
surveillance program.  The U.S. has received the draft and will evaluate the text
on its merits, said a U.S. official by e-mail, asking not to be
identified citing policy.  ‘Transparency, Accountability’  While concerns about public security may justify the
gathering and protection of certain sensitive information, state
surveillance activities must be carried out in full compliance
with international human rights law, the draft resolution
states.  It also calls on nations to “review their procedures,
practices and legislation” regarding surveillance and to
“establish independent national oversight mechanisms” to
ensure “transparency and accountability.”  In testimony this week before the U.S. House intelligence
committee, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said
allies have spied on U.S. leaders just as the U.S. has gathered
information on them.  “It’s invaluable for us to know where countries are coming
from, what their policies are, how that would impact us across a
whole range of issues,” Clapper said at the Oct. 29 hearing.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said yesterday that some
American surveillance “reached too far” and that he and Obama
had learned of some efforts that were on “automatic pilot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  