-- Brookfield Property to Boost General Growth Stake to 32%
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-11-01T16:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/brookfield-property-boosts-ownership-of-general-growth-to-32-.html
Brookfield Property Partners LP (BPY) 
agreed to acquire $1.4 billion of shares and warrants in  General
Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , boosting its stake in the No. 2 U.S.
mall owner to 32 percent.  “This transaction provides Brookfield Property Partners
with the opportunity to increase its exposure to one of the
highest-quality shopping center portfolios in the world at an
attractive valuation,” Ric Clark, chief executive officer of
Brookfield Property, said today in a statement.  Brookfield Property, spun off this year from Toronto-based
 Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A) , is consolidating its holdings
to create one of the largest commercial real estate owners. In
September, the Hamilton, Bermuda-based company offered to buy
the shares of  Brookfield Office Properties Inc. (BPO)  that it didn’t
already own. The acquisition would form a landlord with 330
million square feet (31 million square meters) of office, retail
and industrial space, according to a statement at the time.  The acquisition of additional shares of Chicago-based
General Growth will be funded partly through the issuance of
$435 million of equity in Brookfield Property to the Investment
Corporation of Dubai and other institutional investors. The
company will also issue $995 million of units in a subsidiary of
Brookfield Property to Brookfield Asset Management.  The return on the investment may exceed the 15 percent
target that Brookfield Property has estimated, Clark said in the
statement.  Rouse Stake  As part of the deal, Brookfield will also boost its
ownership stake in  Rouse Properties Inc. (RSE) , a New York-based
retail landlord spun off from General Growth last year, to about
39 percent.  Brookfield Asset Management acquired its stake in General
Growth, the largest U.S. mall owner after  Simon Property Group
Inc. (SPG) , after helping to finance the company’s exit from
bankruptcy in 2010. The interest was transferred to Brookfield
Property upon its formation in April.  Brookfield Property owned 25 percent of General Growth
prior to the purchase announced today,  Melissa Coley , a
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The 32 percent stake assumes the exercise of all
outstanding warrants. Brookfield Property’s interest is 28
percent on an undiluted basis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  