-- Bullard Says Labor Market Gains Could Back QE Taper Case
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-11-01T15:44:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/bullard-says-labor-market-gains-could-back-case-for-tapering.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said gains in the labor market since
September 2012 could warrant a cut in the Fed’s $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases.  “This provides the most powerful part of the case for
tapering,” Bullard said today in St. Louis. “Two key labor
market indicators have shown clear improvement over the last
year: Unemployment and nonfarm payroll employment.”  Bullard voted for the Federal Open Market Committee
decision this week to press on with bond buying while awaiting
more evidence the economy has gained strength following a U.S.
government shutdown last month. The federal closing reduced
growth by 0.3 percentage point this quarter, according to the
median estimate in an Oct. 17-18 Bloomberg survey.  The FOMC removed from its statement a reference to
tightening financial conditions, which was one reason officials
chose in September not to slow the pace of bond purchases.  “To the extent that key labor-market indicators continue
to show cumulative improvement, the likelihood of tapering asset
purchases will continue to rise,” Bullard said in a speech to
the  St. Louis  Regional Chamber’s Financial Forum. “This is
because the committee’s 2012 criterion of substantial
improvement in labor markets gets easier and easier to satisfy
on a cumulative basis as labor markets continue to heal.”  Bullard said the FOMC wants reassurance progress in labor
markets “will stick.”  Inflation Target  The current low inflation rate argues for delaying
tapering, Bullard said to reporters after his speech. He
declined to predict how he or other policy makers at an FOMC
meeting on Dec. 17-18 will address the question of whether to
reduce so-called quantitative easing.  “Inflation continues to run very low in the  U.S.
economy ,” he said. “We have a lot of room on the inflation
front. I would like to see inflation coming back towards target
before we make a decision to taper.”  Bullard, who has been an advocate of an open-ended approach
to  bond buying , said he continues to back that approach rather
than setting a dollar target for purchases.  The St. Louis Fed president during the past two months has
urged the Fed to hold off on adjusting bond purchases, saying
any change should depend on whether inflation moves toward the
Fed’s 2 percent target. Policy shouldn’t rely on central bank
forecasts for the economy that have proven too optimistic in the
past three years, he has said.  Not Pre-Determined  Bullard today reiterated the view of the FOMC that the
question of whether to reduce asset purchases isn’t pre-determined, but hinges on changes in economic data.  Asset-price bubbles are another focus for policy makers,
Bullard said in response to audience questions, voicing concern
about a rise in farmland prices.  “Bubbles is a huge issue for the committee, and will
continue to be a huge issue going forward,” he said. “The
thing about land prices right now is a lot of those purchases
are not leveraged,” or financed with debt, so they are “not as
dangerous” to the economy.  U.S. stocks were little changed today, with the  Standard &
Poor’s  500 index at 1,754.72 at 11:38 a.m. in New York after the
 Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index rose. The 10-year Treasury yield rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 2.60 percent.  Bullard, who calls himself the “ North Pole  of inflation
hawks,” has been viewed as a bellwether for investors because
his views have sometimes foreshadowed policy changes. He
published a paper in 2010 entitled “Seven Faces of the Peril,”
which called on the central bank to avert deflation by
purchasing Treasury notes. That was followed by a second round
of bond buying.  Bullard joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of  Arkansas  and parts of  Illinois ,
 Indiana ,  Kentucky , Mississippi,  Missouri  and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  