-- Burkle’s Yucaipa Offers $8 a Share for Morgans Hotel
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-11-01T23:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/burkle-s-yucaipa-offers-8-a-share-for-morgans-hotel.html
Billionaire  Ron Burkle ’s Yucaipa Cos.
offered to buy  Morgans Hotel Group Co. (MHGC)  for $8 a share, 13
percent more than today’s closing price.  The offer, disclosed today in a regulatory filing, has a
total value of $261 million, based on 32.6 million shares
outstanding as of Aug. 6. Morgans fell 1 percent to $7.09 at the
close of  New York  trading, and has risen 28 percent this year.  “Yucaipa, including our investment in Morgans, manages a
substantial portfolio of hospitality-related assets with
dedicated available resources to improve the operating
performance of our companies,” Los Angeles-based Yucaipa said
in today’s filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. “We are confident that this platform could deliver
synergistic value to Morgans under our ownership.”  The offer follows a demand in September by Yucaipa, which
has beneficial ownership of about 27 percent of Morgans shares,
that the hotelier put itself up for sale. Yucaipa last month
filed a lawsuit accusing New York-based Morgans of undermining
its right to have an observer attend the boutique-hotel
operator’s board meetings.  Yucaipa said it would be able to complete an acquisition
“expeditiously” and that Morgans should seek other bids “to
see if it can get a higher price.”  Morgans, which operates luxury hotels under brands
including Hudson, Delano and Mondrian, will review the proposal
with its financial and legal advisers and “determine the
appropriate response in due course,” it said in a statement.  Burkle also sued OTK Associates, which was founded by Jason Taubman Kalisman and holds about 14 percent of Morgans’ shares,
in federal court in  Manhattan  in July, accusing the firm of
misleading shareholders in proxy materials. Kalisman is the
interim chief executive officer of Morgans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  