-- Canada Dollar Rises Against Most Peers After GDP Tops Forecast
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-11-01T21:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/canada-dollar-rises-second-day-after-stronger-than-forecast-gdp.html
The Canadian dollar rose against a
majority of its 16 most-traded peers after a report yesterday
that the nation’s economy grew more than forecast in August
eased concern caused when the  Bank of Canada  lowered growth
forecasts last week.  The currency erased a gain against its U.S. peer after a
measure of U.S. manufacturing activity rose to its highest since
April 2011, suggesting the economy may be gaining enough steam
for the  Federal Reserve  to taper the monetary stimulus program
that tends to devalue the greenback. The Canadian dollar reached
its lowest point in two months after the Bank of Canada reduced
its growth forecasts Oct. 23 and removed language about the need
for higher interest rates that was included in every policy
statement for more than a year.  “The Europeans are coming back with a little bit of soft
data and some readjustment of expectations of what we’re going
to see from a monetary-policy perspective,” said Mark Frey,
chief market strategist at Cambridge Mercantile Group, a global
foreign exchange and payments provider, by phone from Victoria,
British Columbia. “Compare that to a Bank of  Canada  that is
still dovish, but all of a sudden the domestic economic
situation in Canada is a little bit firmer than we anticipated.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, was little changed at
C$1.0420 per  U.S. dollar  at 5:02 p.m. in Toronto. It reached
C$1.0497 on Oct. 30, the weakest since September. One loonie
buys 95.97 U.S. cents.  Bonds Drop  Canada’s 10-year benchmark government  bond  fell, with
yields rising seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to
2.49 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2022
lost 59 cents to C$91.59.  The Bank of Canada announced yesterday it will auction
C$3.4 billion ($3.3 billion) of five-year bonds on Nov. 6. The
securities will mature in March of 2019.  Canada’s currency posted its best two-day performance
against the euro in eight months on speculation the  European
Central Bank  may cut  interest rates  at its meeting next week.  The Canadian dollar rose to C$1.4055 per euro, the
strongest since Oct. 22.  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
versus its U.S. peer held at its lowest point in a week. The
three-month so-called 25-delta risk-reversal rate touched 1.16
percent, the lowest since Oct. 25. Risk reversals measure the
premium on options contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus
buying U.S. contracts that do the opposite.  Economic Output  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  index  of U.S.
factories rose to 56.4 in October, the highest since April 2011,
from 56.2 a month earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s
report showed today.  The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 83 economists
was 55. Estimates ranged from 52.5 to 57.5. Readings above 50
indicate growth.  Manufacturing strengthened from  China  to  South Korea  last
month in a sign that growth risks are abating in  Asia  and
expansion may pick up this quarter.  “It just slightly increases the odds of a December
taper,” said  Greg Anderson , head of global foreign exchange
strategy at Bank of Montreal, by phone from  New York . “That’s
still not the market’s core scenario, the market’s core scenario
is still March. But hey, good ISM tells you that December is not
off the table.”  Oil Down  Futures of crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 1.8
percent to $94.61, the lowest point since June. The  discount 
Canadian producers face compared to U.S. crude benchmarks is
$40, the most since January.  Canadian  gross domestic product  rose 0.3 percent to an
annualized C$1.59 trillion,  Statistics Canada  said yesterday in
Ottawa, beating the 0.1 median forecast in a Bloomberg economist
survey.  Growth is on pace to quicken to about a 2.5 percent
annualized pace this quarter according to economists at  CIBC
World Markets  and TD Securities, the fastest since a 6.2 percent
gain two years ago. That would be enough to reduce what the Bank
of Canada last week called “significant” slack in the economy,
which led policy makers to drop language about raising interest
rates.  The Canadian dollar has gained 1.9 percent in the past
week, making it the top performer among the 10-currencies
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index, followed by the U.S.
dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  