-- CBOT Traders Ask Court to Block Trade Settlement Rules
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-11-01T15:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/cbot-traders-ask-court-to-block-trade-settlement-rules.html
A group of  Chicago  Board of Trade
brokers and traders who practice the traditional method of
completing trades with shouting and hand signals are asking an
 Illinois  judge to block new settlement rules they claim hurt
their livelihoods.  A  change  that took effect in June 2012 introduced
algorithms that blend electronic trade information with the old-fashioned open pit outcry method for agricultural trade price
settlements.  That change “will, for all practical purposes, eliminate
the open outcry pit-based system in which the plaintiffs and
their businesses trade,” George Sang, a lawyer for about 20
opponents of the new system, said in a filing in state court in
Chicago. He also said their rights as board shareholders were
being violated.  Cook County Circuit Judge  Jean Prendergast Rooney  in
Chicago is scheduled today to start a four-day hearing on the
challenge to the new rules.  Besides the Board of Trade, defendants include its parent
company, Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME) , Chairman  Terrence Duffy 
and Chief Executive Officer Phupinder Gill.  Attorneys for the defense said in a court filing that the
change was made to ensure settlement prices reflect “the full
breadth” of market activity.  Amend Rules  They also denied the claim by the group of brokers and
traders that the rule change breached their contractual rights,  “CBOT, not its members, is empowered to make and amend its
rules,” the defense lawyers said.  Members only get a right to vote on those changes if
they’re specifically enumerated in its certificate of
incorporation, the defense attorneys said in a September 2012
court filing.  The organization made the change to ensure the exchange is
“consistent” with the federal Commodity Exchange Act and with
Commodity Futures Trading Commission requirements, CME Group
spokeswoman Laurie Bischel said in a phone interview last year.  “We believe that the new settlement methodology accurately
captures contract value across both open outcry and electronic
trading during the settlement period,” she said, adding it is
“fully consistent” with CME Group’s functions as a designated
contract market and derivatives clearing organization.  While a state court judge previously handling the case, Lee Preston, last year denied the bulk of a defense request for
judgment in their favor, he rejected the traders’ breach of
contract claims against Duffy and Gill and breach of fiduciary
duty claims against the corporate defendants.  The case is McKerr v. The Board of Trade of the City of
Chicago, 12CH23185, Cook County, Illinois, Circuit Court,
 Chancery Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  