-- Cerberus Said to Join BlackBerry Founder to Explore Offer
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-11-01T23:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/cerberus-said-to-join-blackberry-co-founders-to-explore-offer.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP, which
has teamed up with  BlackBerry Ltd. (BB)  co-founder  Mike Lazaridis  to
explore a bid for the struggling smartphone maker, is in talks
with  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  about having the chipmaker join the
coalition, two people familiar with the talks said.  Qualcomm, based in San Diego, will make a decision after
reviewing BlackBerry’s finances, said one of the people, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private. The
company -- the top supplier of chips for phones and tablets --
gets the majority of its profit from licensing patents, which
cover much of the fundamental technology in wireless networks.  BlackBerry, which announced in August that it was
considering takeover offers, has drawn a number of interested
parties, though little in the way of concrete bids.  Fairfax
Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) , BlackBerry’s largest investor, signed a
tentative agreement to acquire the smartphone maker for $4.7
billion in September -- without naming its buyout partners or
showing that it has lined up financing.  Under that pact, BlackBerry has until Nov. 4 to consider
other proposals while Fairfax and a group of investors conduct
due diligence and line up financing. As of today, the firm has
yet to arrange the financing, people with knowledge of the
matter said. Fairfax’s advisers, Bank of America Corp. and Bank
of Montreal, have been rebuffed by other lenders they contacted
to help finance a bid, according to the people.  Below Price  Investors have signaled that they don’t expect the Fairfax
deal to happen, with the stock trading more than 10 percent
below the $9-a-share offer.  Peter Duda , a spokesman for New York-based Cerberus,
declined to comment, as did Qualcomm’s  Emily Kilpatrick  and
BlackBerry’s Adam Emery.  Mike Sitrick , a spokesman for
Lazaridis, also declined to comment.  Cerberus, a private-equity firm that specializes in
distressed assets, has already signed a nondisclosure agreement
with BlackBerry to gain access to its financials, one of the
people said.  BlackBerry fell 2 percent at $7.77 at the close in New
York, bringing its year-to-date decline to 35 percent.  The Wall Street Journal previously reported that Qualcomm
was considering joining in a BlackBerry bid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  