-- Chiefs-Broncos Bumps Packers-Giants From NFL’s Nov. 17 Primetime
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-11-02T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/chiefs-broncos-bumps-packers-giants-from-nfl-s-nov-17-primetime.html
The season’s first meeting between
the  Kansas City Chiefs  and Peyton Manning’s Denver Broncos was
switched to primetime, bumping the New York Giants’ home game
against the  Green Bay Packers  to late afternoon on Nov. 17  The Chiefs-Broncos game at Denver’s Sports Authority Field
was moved to 8:30 p.m. Eastern time on  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC in
the first week of the National Football League’s flexible
schedule arrangement, making it the only game in that primetime
slot, the league announced yesterday in an e-mailed release. It
previously was scheduled for 4:05 p.m. on CBS.  The Chiefs, who play at Buffalo tomorrow, are 8-0, the only
undefeated team in the NFL, while the Broncos are 7-1 and have
this week off. The teams, both in the American Football
Conference West division, meet for the second time this season
in Kansas City on Dec. 1.  The Giants (2-6) now will host the Packers (5-2) at MetLife
Stadium in East Rutherford,  New Jersey , with a 4:25 p.m. kickoff
on News Corp.’s Fox network, while the San Diego Chargers will
play the Miami Dolphins at 4:05 p.m. on CBS in a game originally
set for 1 p.m.  Kansas City holds a one-game division lead over the Broncos
and Manning, who has thrown this season for 2,919 yards and 29
touchdowns, both NFL highs.  The flexible schedule provision allows Sunday games to be
moved to ensure compelling matchups in all three time slots and
gives teams “a chance to play their way” into the primetime
slot, according to the release. NBC is paying $1.1 billion this
season for the Sunday night game rights.  The Broncos are the favorites at 13-4 to win the  Super Bowl 
in February, according to online sportsbook Bovada.lv. The
Chiefs are tied for sixth at 12-1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  