-- Chiefs’ Defense Stymies NFL Opponents in Year of Record Scoring
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-11-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/chiefs-defense-stymies-nfl-opponents-in-year-of-record-scoring.html
The  Kansas City Chiefs  have leaned on
their defense to stay unbeaten in a National Football League
season dominated by record-setting offense.  After tying for the NFL’s worst record last season at 2-14,
the Chiefs are 8-0 going into this weekend’s game against the
 Buffalo Bills  in Orchard Park,  New York , allowing a league-low
12.2 points a game while shutting down opponents in the fourth
quarter.  Kansas City ’s defense has an NFL-best 36 sacks, nine more
than in all 16 games a year ago. The Chiefs also have 10
interceptions after a league-low seven in 2012. The defensive
resurgence under new coach Andy Reid has come as NFL clubs have
scored a record 5,544 points and 614 touchdowns through the
first eight weeks of the season.  “ Andy Reid  has duplicated what he did in Philadelphia,”
said Brian Baldinger, an  NFL Network  analyst who played in the
league for 11 seasons. “His first hire was defensive
coordinator Bob Sutton. Just like in Philadelphia, his first
hire was Jim Johnson. He wanted somebody to take care of the
defense.”  Kansas City’s offense has been steady and relatively
mistake-free this season, tied for 13th in the 32-team league
with an average of 24 points a game and the fourth-fewest
turnovers in the NFL. The defense hasn’t allowed more than 17
points in any game so far, the fourth team since 1970 to do so
and the first since the 1977  Atlanta Falcons .  Chiefs linebacker Derrick Johnson said credit goes to Reid,
who led the  Philadelphia Eagles  to eight division championships
in 14 seasons.  ‘Remarkable’ Confidence  “The confidence level that he gives us, it’s remarkable,”
Johnson, the team’s leading tackler, told reporters this week.
“He came in during the offseason and everybody jumped in the
boat, and we’ve been sailing ever since.”  Pass-rushers Justin Houston and Tamba Hali have a combined
20 sacks for the Chiefs’ defense, which has been at its best in
the fourth quarter.  When leading by seven points or less in the final quarter,
Kansas City has allowed only 12 first downs and one field goal
on 17 drives while forcing three interceptions, two fumbles and
one turnover on downs. In their last four games, the Chiefs
haven’t allowed a point on 13 fourth-quarter possessions in
which opponents needed a touchdown to tie or take the lead.  While Reid, 55, gets much of the credit for the Chiefs’
turnaround, the hiring of Sutton, a former coach at Army and
defensive assistant for the  New York Jets , has proven to be one
of Reid’s best moves since taking the reins in Kansas City.  Defensive Chiefs  Sutton, 62, kept the base alignment of the Chiefs’ defense
the same, while incorporating blitzes employed by his former
boss, Jets coach  Rex Ryan . If opposing teams seek to spread
Kansas City’s defense out, they face a pass rush led by Houston
and Hali. If offenses focus on protecting the quarterback, the
Chiefs have nose tackle Dontari Poe clogging the middle of the
line and a secondary led by Pro Bowl cornerback Eric Berry and
Brandon Flowers that’s allowed the fourth-fewest passing yards
in the league, Baldinger said.  “He has all of Rex’s principles about overloads and how to
get a free hitter and how to play man,” Baldinger said. “So
he’s got all the schemes and he’s got all the players to play
the schemes.”  Ryan said this week that the best coaching jobs in the NFL
this season have been by Sutton and Ryan’s brother, Rob, the New
Orleans defensive coordinator he’ll face in two days when the
Jets (4-4) host the Saints (6-1) at MetLife Stadium in  East
Rutherford ,  New Jersey .  Saints’ Balance  While the Saints’ offense led by quarterback  Drew Brees  has
the fifth-highest scoring average in the league, their defense
has given up the fourth-fewest points in the NFL after ranking
30 out of 32 teams a year ago. Kansas City allowed the eighth-most points in 2012.  The Chiefs, who lead the  Denver Broncos  and  Peyton Manning 
by one game in the American Football Conference’s West Division,
face questions even with their 8-0 start.  “Defensively they’ve got the best group in the AFC, but
offensively they’ve yet to score more than 31 points in a
game,” said former NFL receiver and ESPN analyst Tom Waddle.
“The name of the game in this NFL is lighting up a scoreboard
and they really haven’t been able to do that.”  Opponents Record  The Chiefs also haven’t faced a team with a winning record.
The combined mark of their first eight opponents is 20-41 and
the Bills are 3-5. It’s one reason the Chiefs are still tied
with the  Green Bay Packers  for the fifth-best odds of winning
the  Super Bowl  at 10-1, behind the Broncos,  Seattle Seahawks ,
Saints and  San Francisco 49ers , according to the Las Vegas
Hotel’s SuperBook.  “The Chiefs can stockpile all these wins and that’s great,
because maybe getting homefield can be the difference in the AFC
this year,” Baldinger said. “But at some point you’ve got to
develop your passing game and you’ve got to try to do more than
win a game 20-17.”  After their Nov. 3 game in Buffalo, where Kansas City is a
3 1/2-point favorite, the Chiefs have an off-week before facing
the Broncos, who are averaging an NFL-best 42.9 points a game,
two times in a three-week period.  “The Chiefs are built for cold weather by the way they run
the ball and play defense,” Baldinger said. “They’re built for
January, but the only question remains, if they’re in a shootout
can they win that. Denver will be a really good test for them
and the league is dying to see what the NFL’s best defense does
against the NFL’s best offense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  