-- China Manufacturing Gauge Tops Estimates in Recovery Boost
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-01T01:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/china-oct-manufacturing-pmi-rises-more-than-estimated-to-51-4.html
A Chinese manufacturing gauge rose
more than estimated to an 18-month high in October as output
strengthened, adding to evidence the nation’s economic recovery
is sustaining momentum.  The  Purchasing Managers’ Index (CPMINMAN)  was at 51.4, the National
Bureau of Statistics and  China  Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said today in Beijing. That compares with 51.1 in
September and the 51.2 median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts. A separate manufacturing  gauge  from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics rose to 50.9 from 50.2,
matching a preliminary reading.  A sustained Chinese  recovery  may give the government
more room to implement reforms the  World Bank  has said are
critical for the nation to become a high-income economy. Top
Communist Party officials will meet in Beijing next week to
discuss how to cut red tape, push forward tax and financial
changes, and spur a shift toward a consumption-driven economy.  “With global demand momentum likely to pick up gradually
and domestic demand growth remaining solid, we expect GDP growth
to comfortably exceed the government’s bottom line in the coming
quarters,”  Louis Kuijs , chief China economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  Hong Kong , said in a note today, referring
to gross domestic product.  “Such an outlook allows for a firmer monetary stance,
which we expect to materialize more clearly in the coming
month,” Kuijs said.  Stock Market  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index pared losses after
the HSBC report and was down 0.2 percent at 9:53 a.m. local time,
while the Australian dollar rose.  The PMI was above the  estimates  of 24 of 31 economists in
the Bloomberg News survey. Levels above 50 signal expansion in
manufacturing while those below point to a contraction. The
output index was also the highest in 18 months. A gauge of
export orders was above 50 for a third month, while a new orders
index fell to 52.5 from 52.8, which was the highest since April
2012.  The federation increased the number of companies in its
manufacturing survey to 3,000 from 820. The HSBC survey is based
on responses from  purchasing managers  at more than 420
businesses, and is weighted toward smaller private companies.  GDP Estimate  China’s GDP will increase 7.6 percent this year, according
to the median estimate of 52 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
last month. That’s the same pace as 1999, which was the weakest
expansion since 1990. Growth may slide to 7.4 percent in 2014,
according to the median projection of 47 analysts.  Consumer-focused companies are benefiting from the upturn.
German automaker Volkswagen AG this week posted third-quarter
operating profit that beat estimates, with nine-month deliveries
in China rising 18 percent.  China’s top leadership, led by president and Communist
Party chief  Xi Jinping , will hold a four-day meeting, known as
the Third Plenum, starting Nov. 9, to discuss and set a
blueprint for social and economic reforms to meet the party’s
goal of doubling per capita income in the decade through 2020.  In a report last year titled  China 2030 , the World Bank and
Development Research Center under the State Council warned that
the nation’s growth model isn’t sustainable and put forward
policy changes that would help avoid the middle-income trap, a
situation where a nation’s productivity and income growth stalls
as it loses competitiveness and fails to upgrade its economy.  International Business Machines Corp., the world’s largest
computer-services provider, said last month its sales of
hardware in China fell 40 percent last quarter partly due to a
significant slowdown in demand from state-owned companies and
delays caused by the reform process.  --Nerys Avery. With assistance from Stephen Tan and Regina Tan
in Beijing, Ailing Tan in  Singapore . Editors: Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  