-- China Home Prices Jump by Most This Year as Demand Defies Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-01T04:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/china-home-prices-jump-by-most-this-year-as-demand-defies-curbs.html
China ’s new  home prices  jumped by the
most this year in October as homebuyers defied the government’s
property curbs and developers offered more high-priced
apartments to tap demand.  The average price surged 10.7 percent last month from a
year earlier to 10,685  yuan  ($1,753) per square meter (10.76
square feet),  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the nation’s biggest real
estate website owner, said in a statement after a survey of 100
cities. Prices rose 1.24 percent from September, the 17th
consecutive month of increases.  Chinese developers rose by the most in more than a month in
 Shanghai  yesterday as a meeting by the ruling Communist Party
fueled speculation that the authorities will refrain from
imposing further property curbs. Real estate companies boosted
supplies of high-end homes last month to seek greater profit
margins, tapping the “unabated enthusiasm” among homebuyers in
a traditionally strong season, SouFun said in the statement.  “The numbers are no surprise, but the month-on-month
increases may start to narrow starting in November because
supplies are no longer that tight,” said Luo Yu, a Shanghai-based analyst at advisory CEBM Group. “Property curbs may
diverge, with cities with excessive gains possibly tightening
further while others loosening a bit.”  Former Premier  Wen Jiabao  in March stepped up a three-year
campaign to contain price gains.  Biggest Gain  Last month’s month-on-month increase widened from
September’s 1.07 percent, though the number of cities with gains
exceeding 1 percent dropped by five to 29, SouFun said. Housing
sales in the first nine months surged 34.5 percent to 4.54
trillion yuan from a year earlier, according to government data
released Oct. 18.  New home prices in China’s four major cities jumped the
most since January 2011 in September, with prices in the
southern business hub of Shenzhen and Guangzhou surging 20
percent from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics
said Oct. 22 in its latest home-price data release.  The city of Changshu in the eastern province of Jiangsu led
gains last month, with prices rising 3.92 percent from
September, according to today’s SouFun data. Prices dropped 2.18
percent in Lianyungang, in the same province, the biggest
decline.  An Oct. 30 government statement about a study session on
housing by the ruling party’s decision-making Politburo didn’t
mention home prices, triggering speculation policy makers won’t
impose further curbs, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.
President  Xi Jinping  reiterated in that statement a government
target of building 36 million units of affordable housing in the
five years ending 2015, which CEBM’s Luo said heralds an
acceleration in the construction of such homes that could reduce
demand for commercial homes.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  