-- China Money Rate Falls to One-Week Low After PBOC Cash Injection
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-01T08:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/china-money-rate-falls-to-one-week-low-after-pboc-cash-injection.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
dropped to the lowest level in more than a week after the
central bank injected cash into the financial system.  The People’s Bank of China added a net 29.1 billion  yuan 
($4.8 billion) via money-market operations in the last four
days, after draining 102.5 billion yuan in the two weeks ended
Oct. 25, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The central
bank offered reverse-repurchase agreements on Oct. 29 for the
first time in two weeks and again at an auction yesterday,
helping bring money-market rates down from the highest levels
since June.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, declined 41 basis points, or
0.41 percentage point, to 4.64 percent in Shanghai, according to
a daily fixing by the National Interbank Funding Center. That
was the lowest level since Oct. 23. The rate dropped 24 basis
points this week after climbing 138 basis points in five days
through Oct. 25.  “We expect interbank rates to fall back to a normal
level,” economists led by Hong Kong-based Lu Ting at Bank of
America Corp. wrote in a research note today. “We don’t think
the PBOC will significantly tighten monetary policies as new
leaders still need a stable economic and financial environment
to consolidate their power base.”  The cost of one-year  interest-rate swaps , the fixed payment
needed to receive the floating seven-day repo, slipped one basis
point today to 4.15 percent as of 4:31 p.m. in  Shanghai . It rose
seven basis points this week and touched a four-month high of
4.27 percent on Oct. 30.  Tax Payments  Money rates will decline following the end of tax payments
due last month, Song Qiuhong, an analyst at Shunde Rural
Commercial Bank in Foshan, said on Oct. 28. The payments boosted
fiscal deposits at the central bank, draining funds from the
financial system.  This month’s cash squeeze, the tightest since a record
funding crunch in June, is prompting global investors to call
for greater transparency from China’s central bank, which
reiterated on Oct. 16 that it was pursuing a “prudent”
monetary policy.  “The fundamental opaqueness of monetary policy making
hasn’t changed since June,” said  David Loevinger , Los Angeles-based emerging-markets managing director at TCW Group Inc.,
which oversees $128 billion in assets. “We don’t know who makes
these decisions and how they’re made. Investors will demand a
premium for investing in more opaque markets.”  China’s official  Purchasing Managers ’ Index was at 51.4 in
October, the highest in 18 months, according to data published
today by the National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation
of Logistics and Purchasing. A private manufacturing gauge from
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics rose to 50.9. Both
exceeded median estimates in Bloomberg News surveys.  The yield on the government’s benchmark 10-year bonds fell
one basis point today and six basis points from a week ago to
4.17 percent, according to data provided by the Interbank
Funding Center. The rate on one-year notes was little changed
today at 3.90 percent, up 20 basis points from Oct. 25.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  