-- China’s Stock-Index Futures Rise After Manufacturing Data
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-11-01T01:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-after-manufacturing-data.html
China’s stock-index futures  rose
after an official government report showed manufacturing
expanded faster than estimated last month.  November futures on the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  gained 0.4 percent to
2,384.60 as of 9:16 a.m. in  Shanghai .  China  Oilfield Services
Ltd. may advance after Credit Suisse Group AG said it preferred
the stock among companies in the sector.  PetroChina (PTR)  Co. may drop
after Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. downgraded the Hong Kong-traded
shares. China may issue guidelines to deepen reforms of state-owned companies after this month’s Communist Party meeting, the
China Securities Journal reported, citing unidentified people.  The Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.9 percent to 2,141.61
yesterday. The gauge slid 1.5 percent in October, taking its
annual decline to 5.6 percent. China’s  Purchasing Managers ’
Index was 51.4 in October, compared with the median estimate of
51.2 in a Bloomberg News survey of 31 economists and 51.1 in
September. A number above 50 indicates expansion.  “The manufacturing PMI figure this year has managed to
remain above the 50 threshold in every single month, perhaps
indicating that the Chinese economy is in better shape than
expected,” said Gerry Alfonso, a trader at Shenyin & Wanguo
Securities Co. in Shanghai.  The CSI 300 Index fell 1.4 percent to 2,373.72 yesterday,
while the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  dropped 0.1 percent.
The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index retreated 0.7 percent in  New
York  yesterday. The Shanghai index trades at 8.5 times projected
profits for the next 12 months, lower than the seven-year
average of 15.4.  Manufacturing Data  The preliminary reading of a manufacturing purchasing
managers’ index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
released Oct. 24 was a higher-than-estimated 50.9. The final
figure will be released at 9:45 a.m. local time today.  Top leaders of the ruling Communist Party gather next week
to set a blueprint for social and economic policies to meet the
Communist Party’s goal of doubling per capita income in the
decade through 2020. Yu Zhengsheng, ranked fourth in the seven-strong ruling Politburo Standing Committee, said last week that
the reforms will be “unprecedented and will promote profound
changes in every area of the economy and society.”  China may issue guidelines to deepen reforms of state-owned
companies after the meeting, China Securities Journal reported,
citing unidentified people. The reforms would involve breaking
up SOEs, especially large central government-administered
companies, the report said, citing unidentified people. The
plenum will run for four days through Nov. 12 in Beijing.  Corruption Probe  Credit Suisse expects anti-corruption investigations to
slow down the decision-making process for SOEs, leading to fewer
tendering activities in the near-term, analysts led by Horace
Tse wrote in a report. China Oilfield has a dominant market
share in its sector, they wrote.  PetroChina, the nation’s biggest oil company, was cut to
market perform from outperform at Bernstein. Analysts  Neil
Beveridge  and Lu Wang cited a slower-than-anticipated pace of
implementation of gas price reforms for the downgrade.  China will cut gasoline and diesel prices by 75  yuan  a
metric ton starting from today, the National Development and
Reform Commission said in a statement on its website.  58.Com Inc., a Craigslist-like Chinese online marketplace,
jumped on its first day of trading in New York, while NQ Mobile
Inc. rebounded for a third day to pare a monthly slump.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  