-- China Security Chief Says East Turkestan Group Behind Attack
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-01T09:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/china-security-chief-says-east-turkestan-group-behind-car-attack.html
The people in a vehicle that crashed
near  Tiananmen Square  this week, leaving five dead, had links to
a Uighur militant group in Central Asia, China’s security chief
Meng Jianzhu said in an interview with Phoenix Television.  China should take a firmer stance against terrorism, Meng
said during a meeting yesterday of the Shanghai Cooperation
Organization in Uzbekistan, according to a video report on
Phoenix TV’s website.  “This violent terrorist attack that happened in Beijing is
an organized, pre-meditated activity,” Meng, a member of the
Chinese Communist Party’s Politburo, told Phoenix TV. “The
instigator behind the scenes is the East Turkestan Islamic
Movement terrorist organization that is entrenched in Central
and Western Asia.”  The remarks are the first official connection  China  has
made between the Oct. 28 crash and the East Turkestan Islamic
Movement, or ETIM. Police found knives and religious material in
the sport-utility vehicle that had license plates from the
restive western region of Xinjiang, which borders  Pakistan , the
official Xinhua News Agency reported. Xinjiang has experienced
sporadic protests by ethnic Uighurs against Chinese rule.  The SUV was driven by a man whose mother and wife were
inside when it crashed near Tiananmen Square, Xinhua reported.
The incident left all three plus two tourists from the
 Philippines  and the Chinese province of Guangdong dead.  Xinjiang Violence  The ETIM was listed as a  terrorist organization  by the U.S.
State Department in 2002. It was founded by Hasan Mahsum from
Xinjiang, who was killed by Pakistani troops in October 2003,
according to the  United Nations.  China blamed an outbreak of
violence in Xinjiang in 2011 on fighters who had trained at ETIM
camps in Pakistan.  There is not a lot of evidence that ETIM is a tightly
centralized organization, Phil Potter, an assistant professor at
the Ford School of Public Policy at the  University of Michigan ,
said by phone today.  “I don’t think that as we understand it that the attack
looks like it has the hallmarks of a co-ordinated, centralized,
sophisticated terrorist attack in the mold of things we would
expect from al-Qaeda,” he said.  Knives Found  Police also found knives and at least one “jihad” flag in
the temporary residence of five suspects it detained after the
attack, Xinhua reported Oct. 30.  While about 90 percent of China’s population is ethnic Han,
more than 40 percent of Xinjiang’s 22 million people are
Uighurs, some of whom have protested the government’s decades-long policy of encouraging Han migration to the area, as well as
restrictions on religious freedom. Xinjiang was the scene of
clashes in 2009 between the mostly Muslim Uighur minority and
Han that left almost 200 people dead.  Chinese troops are ready when necessary to act against
terrorist activities, Defense Ministry spokesman Yang Yujun told
reporters yesterday, the China News Service said today.  The ETIM has links to other terror groups and has spread
“violent and terrorist thoughts,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman
Hua Chunying said today in response to a question about the
incident. “It is China’s most direct and real security
threat,” she told reporters in Beijing.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  