-- CIA Drone Strike Said to Kill Pakistan's Taliban Chief
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-11-01T23:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/cia-drone-strike-said-to-kill-pakistan-s-taliban-chief.html
A CIA drone strike in  Pakistan  today
killed the leader of the Pakistani Taliban, according to reports
from the region that a U.S. official said were credible.  Hakimullah Mehsud, the target of the strike in North
Waziristan, was indicted in the U.S. three years ago for his
alleged role in a suicide bombing that killed seven Central
Intelligence Agency employees in  Afghanistan  in 2009.  The Pakistan foreign ministry confirmed in a statement that
a strike occurred in the region, while calling it “a violation
of Pakistan’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.”  Even as the Pakistani government denounces such strikes, it
has cooperated with U.S. intelligence agencies in locating,
tracking and targeting leaders of the Pakistani Taliban,
including Mehsud.  This time, intelligence on his whereabouts was considered
to be of medium to high credibility -- a level of confidence
that triggered the attack, according to the U.S. official, who
requested anonymity to discuss sensitive intelligence matters.  Pakistan’s private cooperation with the U.S. hasn’t
extended to U.S. efforts to find Mullah Muhammad Omar and other
leaders of the Afghan Taliban, whom the Pakistani government
considers allies.  Mehsud, the leader of the Tehrik-e Taliban Pakistan, has
been reported killed several times, only to resurface later. For
that reason, U.S. officials have been reluctant to confirm
reports of his death. In this case, the reports that he was
killed are considered credible, the U.S. official said.  Multiple Deaths  The attack on Mehsud was reported by news agencies
including  CNN , which cited unidentified Pakistani officials, and
Al Jazeera television, which cited a Taliban spokesman it didn’t
name. The Al Jazeera report cited multiple deaths in the strike,
which it said targeted a meeting of Taliban leaders.  If confirmed, the death would be a coup for U.S. efforts to
weaken the Taliban, even as it may complicate Pakistan’s efforts
to engage in peace talks with the militants.  Mehsud had been accused of conspiracy to murder U.S.
citizens abroad in the bombing on Dec. 30, 2009. Seven CIA
employees were killed and six others injured by a Jordanian
double agent who was allowed onto a base in eastern Afghanistan
near the Pakistani border in the belief he was bringing
intelligence on al-Qaeda.  After the attack, the Pakistani Taliban released a video of
the bomber with Mehsud justifying the killings.  Before today’s attack, strikes in Pakistan’s tribal areas
fell to 14 this year after peaking at 115 in 2010, according to
data from the Pakistan defense ministry released by the
parliament. There were 67 civilians killed in the strikes from
2008 to 2013, the figures showed.  Amnesty International, a human-rights group, issued a
report last week saying U.S. drone strikes in Pakistan are
sometimes conducted without legal justification and may amount
to war crimes. It called on President  Barack Obama ’s
administration to investigate any potential unlawful killings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  