-- Citigroup Says It’s Cooperating on Foreign-Exchange Probes
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-11-01T12:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/citigroup-says-it-s-cooperating-on-foreign-exchange-probes.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the second-biggest
currency trader, said it’s cooperating with government agencies
in the U.S. and elsewhere probing trading in the $5.3 trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market.  “Government agencies in the U.S. and other jurisdictions
are conducting investigations or making inquiries regarding
trading on the foreign-exchange markets,” the New York-based
company said today in a quarterly filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. “Citigroup has received
requests for information and is cooperating with the
investigations and inquiries and responding to the requests.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co., the largest U.S. bank by assets, said
earlier today that it’s also cooperating with various government
authorities investigating the firm’s foreign-exchange trading
business.  Regulators in London and Zurich are examining currency
markets after reports dealers in the industry had been front-running client orders and trying to rig benchmark rates.
Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank by assets, put a top
London currency dealer on leave, people with knowledge of the
move said this week. JPMorgan and Standard Chartered Plc also
placed employees on leave.  In June, Bloomberg News reported that dealers pooled
information about their positions through instant messages,
executed their own trades before client orders and sought to
manipulate benchmark rates by pushing through trades around the
60-second windows when the benchmarks are set. The U.S. Justice
Department opened a criminal investigation of possible
manipulation of the foreign-exchange market, a person familiar
with the matter said on Oct. 11.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG have said
they’re cooperating with regulators, while Switzerland’s UBS AG
said Oct. 29 it’s taking measures against employees. Barclays
said Oct. 30 it had been contacted by authorities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  