-- Commodities Tumble to Four-Month Low as Crude, Gold Lead Losses
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-11-01T22:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/commodities-tumble-to-four-month-low-as-crude-gold-lead-losses.html
Commodities dropped to a four-month
low, paced by declines in crude oil and gold, on signs of
climbing supplies of raw materials at a time when the prospect
of reduced Federal Reserve stimulus may cut demand.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
lost 1.7 percent to settle at 612.24 at 4 p.m. in  New York ,
after touching 611.58, the lowest since July 1. West Texas
Intermediate fell below $95 a barrel for the first time since
June. Gold reached a two-week low. Hog futures capped the
longest slump in three months, and cotton slumped to the lowest
since January.  Production is poised to top demand for everything from
coffee to zinc as ample rains this year boosted global crops and
demand waned for metals, grains and energy. U.S. crude
inventories climbed to the highest since June, data from the
Energy Information Administration showed Oct. 30. Commodity
returns will be  “mostly flat” in the next 12 months, and
there are “significant downside opportunities” in gold, copper
and soybeans, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said Oct. 18.  “You just don’t see that much enthusiasm for commodities
among the big-money players,”  Bill O’Neill , a partner at Logic
Advisors in  Upper Saddle River ,  New Jersey , said in a telephone
interview. “There are ample supplies for energy products, and
U.S. production continues at near-record levels. The
expectations for Fed tapering have also knocked down prices.”  The Fed signaled diminishing concern over higher borrowing
costs and cited “underlying strength” in the economy, even as
it maintained $85 billion in monthly bond purchases on Oct. 30.
The central bank’s statement opens the possibility of reduced
debt buying as soon as December, Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc
has said.  Oil Supplies  WTI for December dropped 1.8 percent to $94.61 a barrel,
the lowest settlement since June 21. Gold futures for December
delivery fell as much as 1.4 percent to $1,305.60, the lowest
since Oct. 17.  Lower refinery-crude processing and rising oil production
have contributed to a 6.6 percent gain in total inventories this
year. The refinery utilization rate was 87.3 percent last week,
compared with as much as 92.8 percent in July.  Crude production 
rose to 7.90 million barrels a day in the week ended Oct. 18,
the most since 1989.  The combination of horizontal drilling and hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, has unlocked supplies trapped in shale
formations in the central U.S.  Natural gas futures capped a third weekly loss as the
outlook for a mild start to November signaled reduced heating-fuel demand. Forecasters including MDA Weather Services in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland , predicted seasonal or above-normal
temperatures in the eastern U.S. through Nov. 15. About 49
percent of U.S. households use gas for heating, according to the
EIA.  Corn Tumbles  Corn tumbled to a three-year low in  Chicago  after increased
rain aided planting in  Argentina , while global supplies are set
to gain amid record production in the U.S., the world’s biggest
grower.  Copper stockpiles tracked by the London Metal Exchange,
which have risen 49 percent this year, gained for a second
straight day. Glencore Xstrata Plc, the metals producer and
commodity trader, said yesterday that quarterly copper output
surged by 34 percent as African mines added to volumes. Prices
have declined 9.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in Washington at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  