-- Brooks Approved Payment for Prince Bikini Photo, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   R i c h a r d   A l l e y n e
-- 2013-11-01T15:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/coulson-said-do-his-phone-for-story-on-soccer-player-s-son.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  tabloids repeatedly hacked
phones and paid bribes to get stories about Britain’s royal
family, including one in which Prince Harry sought help on an
essay during his time at a military college, prosecutors said.  A transcript of a 2005 voice mail left by the prince on his
ex-special services private secretary’s phone, asking for
information on the 1980 Iranian Embassy siege, was found on a
file owned by former News of the World royal reporter Clive Goodman, prosecutor Andrew Edis said today. A year later,
Rebekah Brooks, then editor of the Sun tabloid, approved a
payment for a photo of Harry’s brother, William, in a bikini.  Goodman and Brooks are among eight people on trial for a
variety of charges stemming from practices at News Corp.
newspapers. Another voice-mail message revealed Prince William
had been shot with plastic bullets when he got lost on a
military training exercise in the U.K., Edis told jurors at a
London criminal court.  “Goodman had kept a little file of e-mails which showed,
we suggest, that what he was doing was officially sanctioned by
people who were senior to him,” Edis said.  Company Chairman Rupert Murdoch closed the News of the
World, the country’s best selling paper, in July 2011 in a bid
to defuse a scandal over revelations journalists had hacked the
phone of a missing teenager, Milly Dowler, who was later found
murdered.  James Bond Party  The fascination with the royal family wasn’t limited to
News of the World. While she was editor of the Sun, Brooks
approved a payment of 4,000 pounds ($6,400) for a picture of
Harry’s older brother, William, dressed in a bikini at a James
Bond party in 2006, Edis said. The photo wasn’t published.  Earlier today, Edis said another former News of the World
editor, Andy Coulson, told a journalist to “do his phone” to
stand up a story on a former soccer player’s son.  Coulson e-mailed Ian Edmondson, a former news editor at the
News of the World also on trial in the case, to instruct him to
hack the phone of Calum Best, the son of former Manchester
United player George Best, Edis said. The 2006 e-mail told him
to “do” the phone to get more information on a story about
whether Calum Best had an illegitimate child.  Brooks, 45, and Coulson, who would become an adviser to
Prime Minister David Cameron, had a six-year-long affair ending
in 2004 that was discovered by police, Edis told jurors
yesterday.  Edis also read out e-mails showing how Coulson, 45, and
Goodman, discussed payments of 1,750 pounds to a police officer
for two royal family phone books in 2002 and 2003.  Cash Only  The directories contained contact details for members of
the royal household including Queen Elizabeth’s phone numbers to
get in touch with her family.  “I think that we should have the book and the goodwill
that goes with it,” Goodman said in a 2003 e-mail to Coulson
asking for a payment for the book of 1,000 pounds. “These
people will not be paid in anything other than cash because if
they’re discovered selling stuff to us they end up on criminal
charges, as could we.”  In order to justify the cash payments to managing editors
at the tabloid, Goodman listed a number of stories which had
come directly from the books and the “turning of mobiles”
including ones on William, his future wife and Harry, Edis said.  “I’m not going to put it in writing but any paper or
computer trail that leads to them or their families will put
them, me, you and the editor in jail,” Goodman said in a 2003
e-mail to a deputy managing editor at the newspaper.  ‘Terribly Stupid’  “Why on earth say he was buying them from palace police
officers if he wasn’t?” Edis said. “It would be terribly,
terribly stupid.”  Goodman and a private investigator who worked for the News
of the World,  Glenn Mulcaire , were convicted for phone hacking
in 2007.  Coulson was also personally involved in a “team
investigation” into allegations of rumors that former Home
Secretary Charles Clarke was having an affair with an aide.
While the allegations were false, the paper used phone hacking
to report on the story, Edis said.  The other defendants include Stuart Kuttner, the 73-year-old former managing editor of the News of the World, who is
accused of phone hacking. Brooks’s husband, Charlie, her former
assistant Cheryl Carter, and the U.K. unit’s former head of
security, Mark Hanna, face charges of conspiring to pervert the
course of justice.  All eight have pleaded not guilty to the charges. Their
lawyers will present arguments later in the trial.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  