-- D.C. Dining: Where to Find Bison Ragu, Howard Hughes
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-11-01T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/d-c-dining-where-to-find-bison-ragu-howard-hughes.html
The federal government may shut down
but  Washington ’s restaurants keep going. Here are some places to
try when visiting the U.S. capital.  Charlie Palmer Steak: This restaurant near  Capitol Hill  is
known for power dining. It’s also a good place to hang out when
nothing much is happening. Charlie Palmer deserves to be
recognized for its good food and service.  Executive Chef Jeffery Russell serves carefully sourced
American dishes such as Chesapeake clam chowder with Yukon
potato, sweet corn and Littleneck clams ($15); filet mignon
($28), which comes with five types of mustard; and classic
vanilla cheesecake ($8).  The hand-cut fries with ketchup and chipotle aioli ($7) are
excellent. The hushed dining room is light and bright and the
service is professional without being snooty. The  prix-fixe
lunch  is $25.  Information:  http://bit.ly/16GgoXB  or +1-202-547-8100.  Chinatown Express: Washington’s Chinatown has no shortage
of restaurants. This family-run business stands out for the
freshness and authenticity of its dishes. The noodles are made
by a chef who stands in the window.  It isn’t a fancy place. You may find yourself crammed in
with families, and service is focused on food to go as much as
restaurant customers.  The noodle soup with duck was listed by the  Washington Post 
as one of 40 dishes every Washingtonian must try. China Express
(which closes at 11 p.m.) is great for a late snack.  Information:  http://www.chinatownexpressdc.com/  or
+1-202-638-0424.  Le Diplomate: This Logan Circle establishment is a homage
to the French brasserie, with dishes such as onion soup gratinee
($11.50), escargots ($14) and steak frites ($28).  Le Diplomate is particularly popular for  brunch , when the
options include various types of coffees and cocktails, as well
as burgers and pastries. It’s more memorable for the buzz than
the food. There’s outdoor seating and the place fills quickly so
book ahead.  Information:  http://www.lediplomatedc.com/  or
+1-202-332-3333.  St. Regis Bar: The hotel bar, newly redesigned by the
Rockwell Group, is a good place for after-dinner drinks. It
looks like an English club and serves a very good martini.  The hotel opened in 1926 as the Carlton, two blocks from
the White House. President  Ronald Reagan  was a regular visitor
to the hotel’s barber, according to the website, which mentions
Jacqueline Onassis,  Audrey Hepburn  and  Elizabeth Taylor  as
guests. (I didn’t spot any of them.)  Howard Hughes  kept a permanent suite, it says. (No sign of
him, either. Spooky.)  Information:  http://www.stregiswashingtondc.com/  or
+1-202-638-2626.  Social Reform: This Penn Quarter bar and kitchen is a good
place to drop by for drinks.  It was quiet when I visited on a Friday evening, which may
be good or bad, depending on what you are looking for.  (That’s in dramatic contrast to the  Ultra Bar , where a
crowd of young people queued along the street.) I didn’t try the
food, but there was a friendly group around the bar, some of
them watching sports on TV. The absence of buzz was made up for
by the speed in which you could get a drink.  Information:  http://www.socialreformbar.com/  or
1-202-393-1300.  Rasika: You’re lucky if you find first-class Indian food in
the U.S. and this Penn Quarter restaurant may be the jackpot.  Restaurateur Ashok Bajaj has won many awards. His chefs
employ a range of cooking techniques -- including the tawa
griddle, sigri barbecue and tandoor ovens -- to produce
contemporary dishes from across  India . The flavors and spicing
are spot on, and the food is accessible to those unfamiliar with
the cuisine.  The service is informative and accommodating, without being
condescending. The best seats are at the counter, where you can
watch the chefs at work.  Information:  http://www.rasikarestaurant.com/  or
+1-202-637-1222.  Table: Chef-owner Frederik de Pue serves imaginative food
at this American restaurant, where dishes are built around
seasonal ingredients. While there’s no shortage of cooking skill
or technique, the focus is on bringing out the quality of the
produce.  Dishes may include king crab served on a bed of spinach
with lemon verbena beurre blanc ($16); duck with fig, rum-raisin, savory crepe confit ($31); and coconut ravioli with mint
coulis and green-tea sorbet ($8). The best seats in the house
are two tables for two right beside the open kitchen.  Information:  http://tabledc.com/  or +1-202-588-5200.  Teddy & the Bully Bar: This Dupont Circle restaurant and
bar is inspired by  Theodore Roosevelt , reflecting his love of
hunting with comical hunting trophies mounted on the walls.  If the room is quirky, chef Michael Hartzer gets down to
business with the food. Options include baby buttermilk onion
rings ($7); poached cod with parsnip puree, root-vegetable
Lyonnais and red-wine reduction ($14); and bison ragu, with
carrot puree, root vegetable, pumpkin gnocchi and citrus granola
($15). The cocktails are not to be missed.  Information:  http://teddyandthebullybar.net/  or
+1-202-872-8700.  Zaytinya: The set lunch I ate at Zaytinya was my most
enjoyable meal in Washington and --at $25 for four courses --
the best value.  Chef  Jose Andres  serves small plates inspired by Turkish,
Greek and Lebanese cuisines. Dishes may include fattoush, a
salad of tomato, cucumber, red onion, green pepper, radish, pita
chips and pomegranate vinegar dressing; and Adana kebab, with
skewered ground lamb, house-made harissa, grilled tomatoes,
sumac and onions.  The flavors are intense and yet clean and fresh.  Information:  http://www.zaytinya.com/  or +1-202-638-0800.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include the London and  New York   weekend
guides ,  Lewis Lapham  on history,  Warwick Thompson  on theater and
 Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on movies.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in Washington on  rvines@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 