-- Danske CEO Vows Rating Upgrade Predecessor Failed to Deliver
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-11-01T09:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/danske-ceo-promises-rating-upgrade-predecessor-failed-to-deliver.html
The Chief Executive Officer of  Danske
Bank A/S (DANSKE) , Thomas Borgen, is promising investors he will deliver
the ratings upgrade his predecessor failed to get as he steps up
cost cuts in an effort to boost returns.  “We are comfortable our upgrade will come and we are
working hard to achieve that,” Borgen said yesterday in a phone
interview from Copenhagen. “It is something we are working
continuously on.”  Denmark (DEGDPNQQ) ’s biggest bank, which sacked Borgen’s predecessor
Eivind Kolding in September in part after he failed to boost
Danske’s  ratings , carries a Baa1 grade at Moody’s Investors
Service. That’s four steps below the Aa3 Moody’s gives  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA)  of Sweden. At the same time, investors in the Danish
bank get less than half the returns delivered by Nordea,  Svenska
Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) , SEB AB and  Swedbank AB. (SWEDA)   Danske Bank cut its profit outlook yesterday and told
investors they’ll only get a 9 percent return on equity by 2015,
compared with the bank’s previous goal of more than 12 percent,
which has now be changed into a “longer term” target.  Sweden ’s
four biggest banks all returned more than 10 percent in the
third quarter. Danske’s owners got 4.3 percent.  Housing Busts  The bank is still struggling to surface from a 2008 housing
bust in  Denmark  as it winds down its retail business in Ireland
eight years after expanding into the euro nation’s property
bubble. Its Danish business is struggling to grow in an economy
hobbled by the world’s highest private debt burden. Denmark’s
bail-in package, a law passed in 2010 requiring bondholders to
share losses in the event of insolvency, has also pummelled the
nation’s banks, driving up their funding costs.  It costs 43 percent more to insure against losses on senior
unsecured bonds issued by Danske than it does on similar
contracts on Nordea, according to credit-default swap data
compiled by Bloomberg. Five-year swaps on Danske traded at 89
basis points this week, compared with 62 basis points on Nordea.
Swaps on Handelsbanken,  Europe ’s best-capitalized bank, traded
at 60 basis points.  Danske is also graded lower than Sweden’s biggest banks at
 Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s . Per Tornqvist, a Stockholm-based analyst at S&P, said in a September interview “the main
driver for better ratings is that Danske is able to demonstrate
it’s able to improve its profitability and thus that it can
support its capital.”  Kolding’s Promise  Danske said yesterday net income rose to 1.54 billion
kroner ($280 million) in the three months through September,
from 1.3 billion kroner a year earlier. That trailed the 2.14
billion kroner seen in a Bloomberg  survey  of analysts. Borgen
yesterday added 1 billion kroner to the bank’s cost cutting
measures.  Danske’s core Tier 1 capital ratio rose to 14.2 percent of
risk-weighted assets at the end of September, from 12.7 percent
a year earlier. The bank needs to hold core Tier 1 capital of 10
percent, under its too-big-to-fail requirements.  Borgen said yesterday he still plans to pay investors a
dividend this year, as the bank works toward a target of paying
out 40 percent of profit by 2015. Danske’s long-run target of
returning 12 percent on equity will probably require the bank to
“get rid of low-return activities,” according to Jesper
Christensen, an analyst at Alm. Brand Markets.  Share Performance  Shares in Danske rose 1.5 percent as of 10:19 a.m. in
Copenhagen to 130.20 kroner, bringing this year’s gains to 36
percent. Shares in Nordea have risen 34 percent over the same
period. SEB has jumped most in the period, rising 41 percent.
The 44-member Bloomberg index of European banks has added 18
percent.  S&P rates Danske A-, three steps below the AA- grade it
gives Nordea. Danske is rated A at Fitch, which grades Nordea
AA-.  Borgen isn’t the first CEO at Danske to promise a ratings
upgrade. Kolding, who was sacked by Chairman Ole Andersen after
only 19 months on the job, told investors in November 2012 they
could expect a ratings upgrade as soon as Danske received its
too-big-to-fail designation.  Treasurer Fired  The upgrades never came. Instead, owners absorbed $1.3
billion in new  shares  in October 2012 to help Danske meet
stricter capital rules. The bank was identified as systemically
important to the Danish economy in March and lawmakers agreed on
additional  capital requirements  in September.  Danske has also recently fired its Group Treasurer Steen Blaafalk, who left the bank in October after working there for
more than three decades.  Borgen, who was head of corporate and institutional banking
before becoming CEO, said yesterday that arranging senior
funding at competitive prices is not “a big issue for the time
being.”  Credit-default swap spreads have been “narrowing
tremendously during the last couple of months or quarters,”
Borgen said.  The difference in five-year default swaps on Danske and
Nordea narrowed to 27 basis points this week from a high of 75
in October last year. Back in 2010, default swaps on the two
banks traded at the same level, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Losing Customers  Danske still needs to cut costs to support shareholder
returns, Borgen said. Though he declined to say how many people
the bank is letting go, he said reductions “will protect as
much as possible the front line” so that customers have a
“good experience” when they do business with the bank.  Danske cut its  outlook  for 2013 yesterday and now sees
profit after tax of 6 billion kroner to 8 billion kroner,
compared with a previous goal of 6.5 billion kroner to 9 billion
kroner. Borgen has said he wants to repair the damage done to
Danske’s image and try to win back customers in an effort to
raise shareholder returns. Danske Bank lost 94,000 customers in
the first nine months of 2013, spokesman Kenni Leth said by
phone.  “We need to have more customer attention, we need to
simplify the bank and we need to be more efficient,” Borgen
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  