-- DBS’s Wrong Call on Timing of Fed Tapering Cuts Treasury Income
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-11-01T09:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/dbs-s-wrong-call-on-timing-of-fed-tapering-cuts-treasury-income.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , Southeast
Asia’s largest lender, said a bad call on when the U.S. Federal
Reserve would begin to curtail its bond-purchase program led to
lower treasury-related income in the third quarter.  The bank pared holdings of longer-maturity U.S. Treasury
instruments, hedged its bond holdings and took in more dollar-denominated fixed deposits in anticipation of the Fed winding
back the stimulus starting in September, DBS Chief Executive
Officer  Piyush Gupta  told reporters in Singapore today.  The Fed said Sept. 18 it would continue purchasing $85
billion of  government bonds  a month, citing the need to see more
improvement in the  U.S. economy . The decision, which surprised
economists, sent the nation’s equities to record highs and
triggered a rally in Treasuries that sent 10-year  yields  to a
three-month low on Oct. 23.  “We basically got the call on Fed tapering wrong,” said
Gupta. When the stimulus measures weren’t curtailed, DBS’s
hedges on its treasury positions started going “out of the
money” and the surplus dollars it was left with had to be put
into the interbank market, he said.  Trading income, which is a component of treasury-related
income, fell 21 percent in the three months ended Sept. 30 from
the previous quarter to S$225 million ($181 million), the
Singapore-based lender said in a statement to the city’s stock
exchange today. Treasury income from customer flows declined 19
percent from the previous quarter to S$228 million.  DBS’s  net income  for the period rose to S$862 million from
S$856 million a year earlier. That beat the S$839 million
average of seven analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in  Singapore  at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  