-- DBS Joins OCBC in Beating Profit Estimates on Lending, Fees
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-11-01T05:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/dbs-joins-ocbc-in-beating-profit-estimates-on-lending-fee-gains.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  and Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., Southeast  Asia ’s largest lenders,
unexpectedly posted third-quarter profit gains as rising loans
and fee income offset tighter interest margins.  Net income at DBS rose 1 percent to S$862 million ($694
million) for the quarter ended Sept. 30 from S$856 million a
year earlier, the Singapore-based lender said in a stock
exchange statement. That beat the S$839 million  average  of seven
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. OCBC profit rose 5
percent to S$759 million from S$724 million, topping the S$662
million average of eight analysts’ estimates. The year-ago
profit excludes a S$1.1 billion gain from asset sales.  DBS and OCBC are seeking growth in  overseas  markets
including  China  and  Indonesia  as they combat the lowest loan
profitability in Southeast Asia. The Singaporean lenders are
also looking to expand fee-generating businesses such as wealth
management at home and abroad.  “The increase in loan volumes could mitigate the lower
 interest rates , and that can potentially lead to an overall
higher interest income going forward,” said Ken Ang, a
Singapore-based analyst at Phillip Securities Pte. “Fees and
commissions have gained good traction over the past few quarters
and that should continue to grow.”  Shares of OCBC fell 0.5 percent to S$10.35 as of 1:27 p.m.
in  Singapore  trading. DBS lost 0.4 percent to S$16.68. The
benchmark Straits Times Index dropped 0.4 percent.  Margins Narrow  DBS’s net interest  margin , a key gauge of bank
profitability, shrank to 1.6 percent in the third quarter from
1.67 percent a year earlier, today’s earnings report showed.
That’s the 16th straight year-on-year decline. At OCBC, the
measure shrank for the 17th straight quarter, to 1.63 percent
from 1.75 percent a year earlier.  Net interest income, the difference between what is earned
on loans and paid on deposits, rose at both banks as they
expanded their loan books. DBS’s net interest income climbed 6
percent to S$1.4 billion in the quarter from a year earlier as
OCBC’s increased 4 percent to S$978 million.  Non-interest income at DBS rose 11 percent to S$744
million, led by trade and transaction services,  wealth
management  and treasury cross-selling.  OCBC’s higher fees from wealth management and credit cards
and profit contribution from its insurance subsidiary, Great
Eastern Holdings Ltd., boosted non-interest income by 3 percent
to S$779 million.  Great Eastern said on Oct. 29 that its third-quarter profit
advanced 43 percent from a year earlier to S$282.8 million,
excluding gains from selling stakes in beverage maker Fraser and
Neave Ltd. and its Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. unit in August
2012.  Overseas Expansion  OCBC Chief Executive Officer Samuel Tsien aims to expand in
China and Indonesia in search of higher-yielding loans and
borrowing demand. The bank now is considering a bid for Hong
Kong’s Wing Hang Bank Ltd., people familiar with the matter said
last week. OCBC has one branch in the city currently.  Tsien declined to comment today on an offer for Wing Hang
at a press conference in Singapore today.  While average net interest margin in  Hong Kong  at 1.73
percent is lower than Singapore’s 1.8 percent, Hong Kong is seen
by banks as a gateway into China and a way to benefit from the
country’s efforts to increase the global use of the  yuan .  OCBC’s Malaysian and Indonesian units each posted a 21
percent increase in profit from a year earlier, the lender said
in the statement.  Failed Acquisition  The economic growth and net interest margins in these two
markets and China have been more attractive than Singapore’s,
OCBC’s Tsien said.  “That is why we want to move our efforts into those
markets,” he said. Loan growth in greater China rose 47 percent
last quarter from a year ago, compared with 11 percent in
Singapore, Tsien said.  DBS Chief Executive Officer  Piyush Gupta ’s efforts at
expanding abroad suffered a setback three months ago when he
dropped a $6.5 billion offer for  PT Bank Danamon Indonesia (BDMN)  after
failing to win regulatory approval for a majority stake.  When DBS first made the bid for the Indonesian lender in
April 2012, it had said 2011 revenue from South and Southeast
Asia would have increased to 27 percent from 7 percent with
Danamon. Reliance on Singapore would have declined to 49 percent
from 62 percent, the bank said.  European Assets  China, India and Indonesia are among countries where DBS
wants to expand businesses including wealth management, Gupta
said in a press conference today. The bank is one of about five
bidding for Paris-based Societe Generale SA’s private banking
unit in Asia, which overseas about $13 billion in assets, three
people familiar with the matter said on Oct. 18.  “We don’t want to wind up with a book that has a German,
Swiss, European, and East European client base,” Gupta said
when asked about buying assets from European banks. “But yes,
if there’s a book where you can clean it up and unbundle an
Asian client base and an Asian portfolio,” then it fits with
the bank’s strategy, he said.  DBS’s third-quarter profit from its Hong Kong operations
declined 15 percent from a year earlier to S$159 million. Profit
from South and  Southeast Asia , excluding Singapore, shrank 23
percent to S$54 million, it said.  The bank almost tripled its provisions for loan losses in
the quarter to S$151 million from a year earlier, mostly because
of soured loans to Indian companies, Gupta said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  