-- Direct Line Shares Climb as Investments Boost Profit
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-11-01T09:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/direct-line-shares-climb-as-investments-boost-profit.html
Direct Line Insurance Group Plc (DLG)  rose
to a two-month high in  London  trading after the U.K.’s biggest
home and motor insurer increased third-quarter profit as a
higher investment return offset a drop in premiums.  Operating profit rose 6.1 percent to 131.2 million pounds
($209.9 million) in the three months to Sept. 30, the Bromley,
England-based company said in a statement today. Return from
investments climbed 28 percent, while gross written premiums
fell 4.8 percent.  The stock rose as much as 3.2 percent to 232.2 pence in
London, the highest intraday level since Aug. 13. The shares
were up 1.5 percent at 9:18 a.m., extending its gain this year
to 5.8 percent. The shares have underperformed a 12 percent
rally for the FTSE nonlife insurance index as  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  reduced its stake in the company.  The insurer, which was split off from RBS last year, is
cutting costs and attempting to sell more profitable policies
amid falling premiums in the U.K. and lower investment returns
driven by record low interest rates. The company said in June it
may cut about 2,000 jobs to help reduce costs to 1 billion
pounds by next year.  “These are good results in competitive markets,” Paul Geddes, Direct Line’s chief executive officer, said in the
statement. “Even after allowing for normal weather losses, our
performance proves we are delivering our self-help agenda and
making good progress toward our strategic targets.”  Direct Line’s combined operating ratio, or claims and
expenses as a percentage of premiums, in the third quarter was
97 percent, about the same as a year earlier. The total cost
base in the period fell 5.5 percent to 259.9 million pounds and
the company said it’s on track to meet its cost target in 2014.  The insurer last month agreed to sell its closed life
insurance business to  Chesnara Plc (CSN)  for 62 million pounds,
allowing the board to declare a special interim dividend of 4
pence a share upon completion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  