-- Health Site Flaws Test Democrats’ Unity as Attacks Rise
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-11-02T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/health-care-flaws-test-democrats-unity-as-republicans-attack.html
Senate Democrats will get to question
the administrators of President  Barack Obama ’s flawed health-care website next week amid mounting anxiety that may test their
party’s unity.  Democratic senators shot questions at White House Chief of
Staff  Denis McDonough  and other officials responsible for the
website at a lunch at the Capitol Oct. 30, said a Senate
Democratic aide. The meeting’s tone wasn’t hostile because
Democrats see their fates as tied to Obamacare’s success, said
the aide, who asked for anonymity to describe private talks.  Still, assurances that Obama’s advisers offered in the
meeting didn’t alleviate the concerns of Jeanne Shaheen of New
Hampshire, said an aide to the senator. Shaheen, one of the
Democrats up for re-election next year, is a critic of the
administration’s handling with the health-care rollout.  Health and Human Services officials who testified this week
before a House committee are set to appear next week before two
Senate panels whose Republican members are outspoken critics of
the health law.  Marilyn Tavenner , administrator of the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, which has overseen the building and
startup of federal online health exchanges, is scheduled to
field questions Nov. 5 from the Senate Health, Education, Labor
and Pensions Committee. Health and Human Services Secretary
Kathleen Sebelius is set to appear the next day before the
Senate Finance Committee.  The flawed debut of the federal website is tarnishing the
health-care law, Obama’s signature legislative achievement, and
is complicating his second-term agenda.  Plurality Support  Forty-eight percent of Americans said the federal
government is doing a “poor” job of implementing the health
law, according to a Kaiser Family Foundation poll released
yesterday. The law maintained plurality support in the survey,
with about 47 percent saying it should be kept or expanded,
compared with 37 percent who said they want it repealed.  Shaheen organized a public letter to the administration
from 10 Democratic senators, later endorsed by an 11th senator,
asking for an extension of the insurance exchange’s open
enrollment period beyond the current March 31 deadline. Sebelius
and Obama responded with promises that the website will be fixed
in plenty of time for Americans to enroll.  Shaheen said in an Oct. 29 interview that her constituents
“are still having difficulties trying to sign up.”  Delay Proposed  Democratic Senator Joe Manchin of West Virginia announced
he is drafting legislation with Republican Senator Johnny Isakson of  Georgia  to postpone the law’s penalty for failing to
obtain health insurance, a core provision that the White House
has insisted on maintaining without delay.  Senator Mary Landrieu of Louisiana, a Democrat facing re-election in a state that backed Obama’s Republican opponents in
2008 and 2012, said in an interview this week that Obama should
fire some staff members to hold them accountable for the
website’s problems. She stopped short of joining demands from
Republicans for Sebelius’s resignation.  Health and Human Services officials who testified this week
before House committees will appear next week in front of two
Senate panels whose Republican members have been outspoken in
criticizing them.  Vice President Joe Biden met on Oct. 28 with freshman House
Democrats concerned about the health-care website’s flaws in the
office of Representative Steny Hoyer of  Maryland , the party’s
second-ranking House leader.  Showing ‘Cracks’  John Thune of South Dakota, the Senate Republicans’ third-ranking leader, who a few weeks ago was among those struggling
to hold his party together during the government shutdown, said
he sees the Democrats’ united front is “starting to show some
cracks” on Obamacare.  “The Democrats realize how bad this is, and if you listen
to people across the country about rate increases, loss of
coverage, dropped coverages, the Democrats are feeling that,”
Thune said. “If you’re an in-cycle Democrat, a 2014 Democrat, I
think you’re going to go increasingly sympathetic to the idea
that all of parts of this should be delayed.”  Senator Charles Schumer of New York, the chamber’s third-ranking Democrat, disputed the idea that the health care law
would damage his party’s members in next year’s election. He
said the website’s initial flaws “will be forgotten rather
quickly in our fast-moving world.”  “There are problems, obviously, with the computers and all
of that,” Schumer said. “But once those are fixed, and I think
they will be, everyone’s going to be focusing on who’s signing
up and what they’re getting for it, and that’s going to be the
key issue.”  Enrollment Hindered  The Obamacare health-insurance exchanges enrolled 248
people in their first two days, as website outages and software
errors hindered sign-ups, according to documents obtained by a
congressional oversight committee.  Notes from three meetings at an Obama administration “war
room,” obtained by Republican Representative Darrell Issa of
 California , show six people had  enrolled  on Oct. 1, the first
day of the website’s operation. The  summary  of an Oct. 2 meeting
said “direct enrollment is still not working” and about 40,000
applicants idled in a virtual “waiting room.”  Issa is chairman of the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee.  The documents were circulated by Republican opponents of
the health law who are seizing on the botched rollout even as a
new poll shows more Americans than not want to expand Obamacare
or keep it intact. About 7 million people, mostly those who are
uninsured, are supposed to gain medical coverage in 2014 through
exchanges created under the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act, the Congressional Budget Office estimates.  Long Waits  About 8.6 million people visited the federal website in the
first week, and most were greeted by long waits that prevented
many from registering. Department of Health and Human Services
officials have said capacity is being added to the system and
upgrades are being made to the software code, though as of two
days ago error messages were still being displayed.  Jeffrey Zients, the former Office of Management and Budget
official that Obama appointed Oct. 22 to help sort out the
website’s troubles, has said the site will work smoothly by the
end of November. The deadline to enroll in plans that begin on
Jan. 1, is Dec. 15.  Getting the site fixed soon is critical as Americans who
don’t have health insurance by March 31 may have to pay a fine
of 1 percent of their income or $95, whichever is higher.  Cancellation Notices  Hundreds of thousands of Americans also have received
notices that their individually purchased insurance plans have
been canceled because of the health law, contradicting Obama’s
repeated pledge that people who like their coverage can keep it.  Obama’s job-approval ratings hit a record low in a Wall
Street Journal/NBC News poll released Oct. 30 that illustrated
the political damage from the health law’s troubled rollout.  Forty-two percent of Americans surveyed gave Obama a
favorable rating, with 51 percent expressing disapproval,
according to the poll. That’s down from a favorable rating of 47
percent earlier in October and 53 percent at the end of last
year, according to the poll.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  