-- LeClairRyan Starts Legal Support Center: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-11-01T11:58:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/leclairryan-starts-legal-support-center-business-of-law.html
LeClairRyan is partnering with
consulting firm UnitedLex to open a center that will centralize
the law firm’s legal support needs, such as document review, in
a bid to curb costs.  “Now we can offer clients an integrated service -- a full
menu of services, which decreases cost, increases cost
predictability and efficiency and gives our clients what they
want,” LeClairRyan Chairman Gary LeClair said in a telephone
interview.  The LeClairRyan Legal Solutions Center, which opens today
in Richmond,  Virginia , will be staffed by 400 employees who are
transferring from the law firm. While most are project workers,
the total includes about 25 former LeClairRyan staff members,
including three ex-shareholders and three non-equity partners.  LeClair said the firm explored options including
traditional outsourcing or investing in an in-house center
before opting for the partnership with UnitedLex. LeClairRyan
will use UnitedLex’s technology and existing infrastructure,
helping the law firm to improve efficiency and better manage
costs while avoiding the risk and uncertainty of having multiple
vendors involved in a project.  “The benchmark was not other law firms but other well-run
businesses and what they are doing,” LeClair said.  LeClair Chief Executive Officer David Freinberg says he
also expects the firm to use the center for due diligence in
transactional work like mergers and acquisitions. “Clients are
demanding better, faster, cheaper and we’ll be able to satisfy
that need,” he said in an interview.  LeClairRyan has about 350 lawyers at 22 U.S. offices in
 California ,  Colorado ,  Connecticut ,  Maryland ,  Massachusetts ,
 Michigan , New Jersey, New York,  Pennsylvania , Virginia and
 Washington .  Squire Sanders Reappoints Managing Partners Crossley and Mahon  Peter M. Crossley and Stephen C. Mahon were reappointed
managing partners of Squire Sanders UK LLP and Squire Sanders US
LLP, respectively. They will serve three-year terms beginning
Jan. 1.  Crossley is a member of the London disputes practice while
Mahon is a Cincinnati corporate partner. Their reappointments
require consent from the firm’s global board, according to a
firm statement.  Litigation  Constantine Cannon Lawyer Testifies for Chevron about Corruption  A New York commercial litigator said on the stand that he
bowed out of the Ecuadorean pollution case against Chevron Corp.
in 2010 when he discovered “shocking” levels of corruption on
the plaintiffs’ side, Bloomberg Businessweek’s Paul M. Barrett
reports.  Jeffrey Shinder, the managing partner of the New York
office of the Constantine Cannon LLP law firm, said that Steven
Donziger, the lead plaintiffs’ lawyer fighting Chevron in
 Ecuador , had lied to him to cover up the ghostwriting of a
critical scientific report supposedly written by a court-appointed independent expert in Ecuador. Shinder said that he
withdrew from the suit against Chevron on ethical grounds after
he learned that, in fact, Donziger had overseen the ghostwriting
of the report by American consultants working for Donziger.  “It was a shocking event, and I remember it very
clearly,” Shinder testified. Donziger had recruited him in 2009
to help the plaintiffs collect on any victory they scored
against Chevron in Ecuador. Shinder tentatively said he would
help Donziger but then quit when he did more research about the
case. Shinder is best-known for bringing antitrust lawsuits
against U.S. credit-card companies on behalf of merchants.  Shinder’s testimony supports Chevron’s allegation that
Donziger obtained the $19 billion Ecuadorean contamination
verdict in February 2011 by means of fabricated evidence and
other deceptions. The San Ramon, California-based company is now
trying to persuade a federal trial judge in New York to issue an
order forbidding Donziger and his clients--thousands of poor
residents of the rainforest in northeastern Ecuador--from ever
profiting from the $19 billion judgment.  Shinder is just the latest in a series of former Donziger
allies--fellow lawyers, technical consultants, and financiers--
who have turned on the plaintiffs’ lawyer and accused him of
dishonesty. Donziger denies wrongdoing and has attempted to
portray Chevron’s counter-assault on him as a tactic to avoid
paying the $19 billion Ecuadorean judgment, which was upheld on
appeal in that country.  Donziger has admitted, though, that the expert report
about which Shinder testified was indeed ghostwritten. Donziger
has suggested that whatever means were used to produce that
report were legitimate under Ecuadorean law. In his cross-examination of Shinder, a lawyer representing Donziger suggested
that Ecuadorean law hadn’t been violated. Shinder stood fast,
however, and said that his concern had been how the verdict
would look to American courts if the plaintiffs ever tried to
enforce it here.  Donziger wasn’t in court to hear Shinder testify. In a
written filing, Donziger said he was in  Canada  to attend
proceedings in which the Ecuadorean plaintiffs are attempting to
enforce the Ecuadorean verdict against Chevron units in Canada.  Former Lawyer Daugerdas Convicted in Tax-Fraud Scheme Retrial  Former lawyer Paul Daugerdas was convicted in a retrial for
what U.S. prosecutors called the biggest criminal tax fraud in
history, while former BDO Seidman Chief Executive Officer Denis Field was acquitted.  The mixed verdict was delivered by a jury yesterday in
 Manhattan  federal court after deliberations that began Oct. 29.
The men were charged with running a 10-year scheme that created
$7 billion in fraudulent tax deductions and more than $1 billion
in phony losses. Prosecutors claimed the scheme cost the U.S.
Treasury $92 million.  The men were on trial for a second time, on charges of
conspiracy, tax evasion and attempting to obstruct the Internal
Revenue Service. Their 2011 convictions were overturned because
a juror in the first trial lied about her background to get on
the case.  Daugerdas, who worked at Jenkens & Gilchrist law firm, was
found guilty of seven counts, including tax evasion and
conspiracy. He was charged with 16 criminal counts, Field with
seven. The trial began with jury selection Sept. 9.  Field “is extremely grateful to the jury for seeing the
truth,” his lawyer, Sharon McCarthy, said in an e-mail. “We
are beyond relief that Denis Field can now move on with his life
and put these terrible years behind him.”  Daugerdas and Field were among seven people were indicted
in June 2009 for selling phony tax shelters from 1994 to 2004.
Two of the people charged, former BDO Seidman partner Robert
Greisman and former Jenkens & Gilchrist attorney Erwin Mayer,
pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate with the government.  Prosecutors claimed the defendants used shelters named
“Short Sales,” “Short Options Strategy,” “Swaps” and
“Homer” to generate fraudulent tax losses for at least 931
wealthy individuals.  A jury returned guilty verdicts on May 24, 2011, against
Daugerdas and Field; Donna Guerin, another former Jenkens &
Gilchrist partner; and David Parse, who worked for Deutsche Bank
AG unit Alex. Brown. Craig Brubaker, a second former Alex. Brown
accountant, was found not guilty.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley presided over both
trials.  The case is U.S. v. Daugerdas, 09-cr-00581, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Moves  Schiff Hardin Adds Product Liability Partners From Goodwin  Elizabeth Runyan Geise and Valerie E. Ross joined Schiff
Hardin LLP’s Washington office as partners in the product
liability group. Before joining Schiff Hardin, Geise was head of
the litigation department in Goodwin Procter LLP’s Washington
office. Ross also was a partner at Goodwin Procter.  “Betsy Geise and Val Ross practice at the top of their
field,” Robert H. Riley, Schiff Hardin’s chairman and leader of
the firm’s product liability group, said in a statement. “They
will be joining one of our firm’s strongest national practices,
rounding out our capabilities and extending our geographic
reach.”  Geise and Ross have experience in complex commercial
litigation and counseling, with a focus on products liability,
toxic torts, class actions and insurance-coverage disputes. They
are experienced in representing corporations in product
liability and toxic tort matters arising out of exposure to
asbestos and uranium. Geise and Ross also have experience in
matters involving environmental laws, occupational health laws
and product warnings, the firm said.  Schiff Hardin has lawyers at offices in Ann Arbor,
Michigan; Atlanta; Chicago; Lake Forest, Illinois; New York; San
Francisco and Washington.  Reed Smith Adds Insurance Recovery Partners in Washington  John W. Schryber and Andrew M. Weiner, formerly partners at
Dickstein Shapiro LLP, joined Reed Smith LLP’s insurance
recovery group in Washington.  Schryber and Weiner handle coverage disputes for clients
across a range of industries loss types.  “John and Andy are a powerful team with a very strong
client following and stellar reputation,” Douglas Cameron,
firm-wide head of Reed Smith’s insurance recovery group, said in
a statement. “The skills and experience they bring to Reed
Smith further cement our position as an insurance recovery
market leader.”  Schryber has prosecuted the rights of beneficiaries of
private indemnity agreements and policyholders in coverage
disputes. He also does recovery work for private equity clients.  Weiner was former head of Dickstein’s fidelity/crime
insurance practice. He focuses his practice on representing
corporate policyholders in insurance coverage disputes. He also
advises on insurance policy audits.  “We look forward to working with Reed Smith in D.C., where
the firm is focused on growth, not only in the insurance
coverage area, but most importantly in the practices that
support and are essential to growing a prosperous insurance
recovery practice,” Schryber said in a statement.  Reed Smith has more than 1,800 lawyers at 25 offices in the
U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  Kaufman Dolowich Rehires Tejada as Head of New Jersey Practice  Kaufman Dolowich & Voluck LLP said Anna Maria Tejada has
rejoined the firm as a partner in the Hackensack, New Jersey,
office. Tejada, who will be director of the firm’s New Jersey
labor and employment practice, was previously at the Gonzo Law
Group.  Tejada focuses her practice in labor and employment law on
behalf of management, as well as professional liability and
general and special education law, the firm said. She also
conducts human resources training to ensure compliance with
federal and state employment laws.  “We are thrilled that Anna Maria is rejoining the firm and
taking a leadership role in our labor and employment practice
group, for which the firm is nationally recognized,”
Christopher Nucifora, co-managing partner in the New Jersey
office, said in a statement.  Kaufman Dolowich has lawyers in offices in New York City,
New Jersey, Pennsylvania, San Francisco, Los Angeles and
 Florida .  McCarter & English Adds Labor and Employment Lawyers in  Stamford   McCarter & English LLP said labor and employment lawyer
Craig Bonnist joins the firm as a partner, along with an
associate in the Stamford, Connecticut, office. Both lawyers
worked together previously at Bonnist & Cutro LLP.  Bonnist will continue his practice in New York and New
Jersey while expanding the firm’s labor and employment group in
the Fairfield County region.  Bonnist has more than 20 years of experience representing
management and individuals in employment disputes. In addition
to litigating before federal and state trial and appellate
courts, he appears before the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission and state and local discrimination agencies, and also
litigates arbitrations.  McCarter & English has 400 attorneys based at offices in
Boston; Hartford, Connecticut; New York; Newark, New Jersey;
Philadelphia; Stamford and Wilmington, Delaware.  News  Senate Republicans Block Obama’s D.C. Circuit Nomination  Senate Republicans blocked the first of President  Barack Obama ’s three nominations to vacancies on the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.  The nomination of Washington lawyer Patricia Millett to the
court -- considered the nation’s second most influential because
it hears appeals of regulatory cases -- was 55-38, with three
voting present. That was five votes short of the 60 that
Democrats needed to end a Republican filibuster. Millett co-heads the Supreme Court and national appellate practices at Akin
Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP.  Republicans said there isn’t enough work to justify filling
three vacancies. They didn’t dispute Millett’s professional
qualifications as a Supreme Court litigator. Still, they
contended that her nomination was part of Obama’s plan to
“pack” the court with judges more likely to uphold rules
proposed by the Environmental Protection Agency and other
regulatory agencies.  Obama and Democrats “don’t want any meaningful check on
the president,” Minority Leader Mitch McConnell said in a floor
speech. The Republican-run House is such a check, he said, “but
the administration can circumvent that with aggressive agency
rule making” if the D.C. Circuit “allows it to do so.”  The vote came minutes after the Senate blocked the
nomination of Representative Mel Watt, a North Carolina
Democrat, to head the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , which
oversees government-chartered mortgage giants  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and
 Freddie Mac. (FMCC)   Only one judge nominated by Obama sits on the court, Sri Srinivasan. He was confirmed unanimously in May. Several weeks
later, Obama nominated Millett, Georgetown University law
professor Nina Pillard and Robert Wilkins, a federal trial-court
judge in Washington.  Millett was nominated to fill a seat once held by John Roberts, who became the Supreme Court’s chief justice in 2005,
two years after he was confirmed to the appellate court.  During
the presidency of George W. Bush, Senate Republicans confirmed
four of his nominations -- including that of Roberts -- to the
D.C. Circuit.  For more, click here.  Deals  Crown to Buy Mivisa for $1.64 Billion From Blackstone, N+1  Crown Holdings Inc. (CCK) , a U.S. maker of consumer-goods
packaging, agreed to buy Spanish food-can company Mivisa Envases
SAU for 1.2 billion euros ($1.64 billion) including debt from
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , N+1 Mercapital and the company’s
management.  Dechert LLP advised Crown, while Simpson Thacher & Bartlett
LLP is representing an affiliate of certain investment funds
managed by affiliates of Blackstone Group LP, N+1 Mercapital and
management in connection with the sale.  Dechert’s team representing Crown was led by Philadelphia-based corporate attorney William Lawlor and included partners
Ian Hartman and Gary Green.  The principal Simpson Thacher team for the transaction
includes partners Mike Wolfson, mergers and acquisitions; Euan Gorrie and Antti Pesonen, financing; David Vann, antitrust; and
Gary Mandel, tax.  The deal is expected to be completed next year,
Philadelphia-based Crown said yesterday in a statement. The
acquisition has committed debt financing and is subject to
review by the European Commission and other regulatory
authorities.  Crown plans to purchase Mivisa, the largest food-can
producer in the Iberian Peninsula and Morocco, to expand in
Europe and the Middle East, where Crown generated $4 billion of
sales in 2012, or 47 percent of the company’s revenue, according
to a filing. The Murcia, Spain-based company had sales of 555
million euros and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization of 133 million euros in the year ended June 30,
Crown said.  Obituaries  Leonard Leiman, Part of Fulbright & Jaworski Merger, Dies at 82  Leonard M. Leiman, who led the securities-law practice at
New York-based Reavis & McGrath when it merged in 1988 with
Fulbright & Jaworski in what was then among the largest such
marriages in history, has died. He was 82.  He died Oct. 30 at his home in Manhattan following a brief
illness, his son, Alan Leiman, said yesterday in an interview.  Leiman (pronounced LY-man) was, until his death, of counsel
in the New York office of London-based Norton Rose Fulbright
LLP, the successor to the firm he joined in 1956. His last
financial-services client was Siebert Financial Corp., the firm
founded by Muriel Siebert, the first woman to buy a seat on the
New York Stock Exchange. She died in August.  The 1988 merger of Houston-based Fulbright & Jaworski with
Reavis & McGrath created the seventh-largest firm in the U.S.,
with more than 575 lawyers, according to an article in the New
York Times. The Times said it was the biggest law-firm merger at
the time; the Wall Street Journal called it “among” the
largest.  It was part of a wave of consolidations driven by mid-size
firms, with 100 to 200 lawyers, that needed to compete with
bigger partnerships offering more service at lower prices, the
Times  said .  Fulbright & Jaworski, the larger partner, with 475 lawyers,
sought the merger to take advantage of Reavis & McGrath’s
presence in New York and Los Angeles. Leiman was among the best-known lawyers at Reavis & McGrath, along with Frederick R. Adler, who headed its venture-capital practice.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  