-- Elan Investors Ask SAC Capital Judge Insist on Admission
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-11-01T19:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/elan-investors-ask-sac-capital-judge-insist-on-admission.html
Elan Corp. (ELN)  shareholders who sued SAC
Capital Advisors LP and founder  Steven A. Cohen  for insider
trading asked the judge presiding over the hedge fund’s criminal
case to reject any accord SAC has reached with prosecutors
unless it pleads guilty to the conduct alleged in their case.  Investors in Elan and Wyeth told U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain today that they are “crime victims” of the
alleged fraud perpetrated by  Stamford , Connecticut-based SAC. If
a plea bargain is reached that doesn’t include the fund’s
admitting wrongdoing for insider trading in Elan and Wyeth, it
should be rejected, they argued in a letter to the court.  SAC and Cohen have been told that $1.8 billion and
admission of wrongdoing by the fund would be the price of
resolving the  insider-trading  charges, people familiar with the
matter said.  The amount would be about $1.2 billion paid as a result of
a criminal probe by  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara and
includes the more than $600 million that Cohen has already
agreed to pay the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to
settle a related suit.  “According to published news reports, a plea agreement
could be executed by defendants and the government and submitted
to the court as soon as today,” Ethan Wohl, a lawyer for the
plaintiffs, said in the letter.  “The plea being negotiated will allow defendants to plead
guilty and pay a fine in excess of $1 billion without admitting
liability for insider trading in Elan or Wyeth. A plea agreement
on those terms, if tendered to the court, should be rejected.”  Ex-Manager Martoma  Prosecutors have charged Mathew Martoma, a former SAC money
manager, with using illegal tips about an Alzheimer’s drug trial
to help the firm make profits or avoid losses totaling
$276 million by trading in Elan and Wyeth, in a case the U.S.
called the largest insider-trading scheme in history. Martoma
pleaded not guilty and is scheduled to go to trial in January.  SAC was indicted in July, accused of operating a conspiracy
that stretched as far back as 1999, including trades by Martoma,
and reaped hundreds of millions of dollars in illicit profit.  The lawyer said a federal court can reject a plea agreement
if it determines that, if any charges are to be dismissed as
part of an agreement, the ones remaining reflect “the
seriousness of the actual offense behavior.”  While Cohen wasn’t charged in either case, Wohl noted that
the SEC has said that he “personally received and benefited”
from inside information on trades with Martoma.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC with Sard
Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment on the investor letter.  The shareholder lawsuit was filed by investors who bought
American depositary receipts of Dublin-based Elan or traded in
options from July 1, 2006, to July 18, 2008, and July 21, 2008,
to July 29, 2008. It names as defendants SAC, Cohen, Martoma and
Sidney Gilman, the doctor who allegedly passed the drug-trial
information.  The case is Kaplan v. SAC Capital, 12-cv-09350, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Federal Court in Manhattan
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 