-- Emerging Stocks Slump as Turkish Lira Drops for 8th Day
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-11-01T16:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/emerging-stocks-drop-amid-thai-amnesty-protests-trade-deficit.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, wiping
out a weekly gain, as  Indonesia ’s surprise trade shortfall
outweighed data showing  China ’s manufacturing strengthened.
 Turkey ’s lira was set for the longest slide since 2002.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 0.7 percent to
1,027.48 at 12:05 p.m. in New York. Indonesia’s rupiah fell,
completing its worst week since August, as data showed the
nation’s trade balance unexpectedly swung back to a deficit. The
lira paced losses in 23 out of 24 developing-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg as Turkey’s central bank cut the amount of
liquidity it gives to lenders in auctions of repurchase
agreements. Poly Real Estate Group Co. drove gains in China on
bets policy makers will ease property curbs.  Stocks joined a global slump amid bets the Federal Reserve
will start tapering stimulus that has buoyed  emerging markets 
sooner than previously expected after better-than-estimated
economic data. Manufacturing strengthened from the U.S. to China
and South Korea last month in a sign that expansion may pick up
this quarter. Indonesia’s exports slid for an 18th month and
concern grew the nation’s current-account deficit will linger.  “Among emerging markets, the higher current-account
deficit countries remain the most vulnerable to any tapering
noise,” Simon Quijano-Evans, head of emerging-markets research
at Commerzbank AG in London, said by e-mail.  Nine out of  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
retreated today, led by energy and telephone shares. The broad
measure trades at 10.5 times projected earnings, compared with
the  valuation  of 14.2 for the MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund declined 0.2 percent to $42.37. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
advanced 1 percent to 22.04.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa fell to a three-week low as homebuilders
including  Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  tumbled after slower-than-forecast
industrial production rekindled concern that Brazil’s economy is
faltering.  Vale SA (VALE5)  rose to a seven-week amid signs that
manufacturing is picking up in China, the iron-ore producer’s
top export market.  Russian stocks  extended a weekly advance after Chinese
manufacturing improved and OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the world’s
biggest producer of the metal, gained. Oil producer OAO
Surgutneftegas added 1.9 percent.  The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index tumbled 1.4 percent,
led by Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS. The lira dropped for an
eighth day, the longest stretch of declines since May 2002.  China, India  Chinese stocks rose, capping a weekly advance in the
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , as a gauge of manufacturing beat
estimates and investors speculated policy makers may ease
property curbs.  China Oilfield Services Ltd. (601808)  and Yanzhou Coal
Mining Co. paced gains among energy companies. China Merchants
Bank Co. advanced 1.6 percent and Poly Real Estate Group Co.
climbed for a third day.  India ’s S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  rose to a record as better-than-estimated corporate earnings spurred foreign investors to step
up purchases of the nation’s equities.  State Bank of India 
climbed to its highest level in three months, sending a measure
of 13 lenders to a fourth day of gains. Tractor maker  Mahindra &
Mahindra Ltd. (MM)  jumped the most in two months, driving up an index
of automakers to a record.  The rupiah slid 0.6 percent to 11,333 per dollar as of 4:11
p.m. in Jakarta, prices from local banks show. The currency has
fallen every day this week to drop 2.8 percent from Oct. 25, the
most since the five days ended Aug. 23.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 311 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in  London  at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in London at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  