-- Energy Future Seeks $4.4 Billion Debtor-in-Possession Loans
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-11-01T15:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/energy-future-gets-4-4-billion-debtor-in-possession-commitment.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp. has
lined up $4.4 billion of loans in the event the Texas power
generator taken private in the biggest leveraged buyout ever
files for  bankruptcy protection .  The financing being negotiated will include as much as $3.6
billion of senior secured debtor-in-possession loans as well as
a $750 million uncommitted portion, the company said in a
regulatory filing. The Dallas-based company would get the
proposed two-year facilities from “certain third-party
financial institutions” if it were to file for bankruptcy
protection.  Energy Future also said confidential negotiations with
creditor groups to date had failed. A restructuring plan
submitted by owners led by KKR & Co. and TPG Capital would have
seen them retain 4 percent of the company’s equity, giving the
remainder to senior creditors at Energy Future’s Texas
Competitive unit.  Debtor-in-possession financing is funding arranged by a
company going through the Chapter 11 bankruptcy process, which
typically has priority over existing debt, equity and other
claims. Such a large DIP may help reassure vendors, customers
and regulators the company can meet its obligations.  Interest Payment  Texas’s largest electricity provider will make a $270
million interest payment due today after restructuring talks
with creditors broke down, according to a statement e-mailed to
employees. The payment gives the company and its creditors
several months to try to negotiate a fresh bankruptcy deal.  Energy Future, which was bought in 2007 for $48 billion by
private-equity firms led by KKR  betting on a boom in natural
gas prices, came close to filing for bankruptcy before talks
with creditors on a restructuring fell apart yesterday.  The company reported its first quarterly profit in more
than two years partly because of a gain on commodities hedging,
it said in today’s filing. Third-quarter earnings of $5 million
compared with a loss of $407 million a year earlier.  Energy Future’s $3.81 billion  term loan  due in October 2014
was quoted at 67.875 cents on the dollar at 12 p.m. in  London ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  