-- Energy Future Holdings Returned to Profit on Hedging
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-11-01T10:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/energy-future-holdings-returned-to-profit-on-hedging.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp., the
 Texas  power company seeking to restructure almost $44 billion of
debt, reported its first quarterly profit in more than two years
partly because of a gain on commodities hedging.  The third-quarter profit of $5 million compared with a loss
of $407 million a year earlier, the Dallas-based company said in
a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission made
public today.  Energy Future had a gain of $58 million in the most recent
period from commodity hedging and other trading activity,
compared with a loss of $3 million during the same period a year
earlier, according to the filing. Revenue rose 8.5 percent to
$1.89 billion.  Texas’ largest electricity provider is expected to make a
$270 million interest payment due today after restructuring
talks with creditors broke down, according to people familiar
with the situation. The payment gives the company and its
creditors several months to try to negotiate a fresh bankruptcy
deal, the people said.  Energy Future, formerly known as TXU, has struggled to
reduce debt since it was taken private by KKR & Co., TPG Capital
and Goldman Sachs Capital Partners six years ago in the largest
leveraged buyout in history. The deal was a bet that the
company’s nuclear- and coal-fired plants would profit from an
increase in natural gas prices. Instead, gas prices plunged
about 74 percent from a July 2008 high.  Confidential Negotiations  Energy Future also said confidential negotiations with
creditor groups to date had failed, and disclosed four rival
restructuring proposals that had been discussed. The plan
submitted by owners led by KKR and TPG would have seen them
retain 4 percent equity, giving the remainder to senior
creditors at Energy Future’s Texas Competitive unit.  The company said it had lined up $3.6 billion debt-in-possession financing to fund it through bankruptcy, as well as
up to $750 million in a separate facility. Energy Future is
“not currently engaged in ongoing negotiations with the
principals of any of the creditors.”  The company’s units include Luminant, which owns more than
15,400 megawatts of power plant capacity in Texas; TXU Energy, a
retail electricity seller; and Oncor Electric Delivery, a
regulated power-line unit that supplies electricity to more than
3 million homes and businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  