-- Ergen Says Dish-Disney Relationship Strained as Talks Continue
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   A l   H u n t
-- 2013-11-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/ergen-says-dish-disney-relationship-strained-as-talks-continue.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  Chairman  Charlie Ergen  said his company’s relationship with Walt Disney Co. “has
not been our best” as the two sides try to hammer out a renewal
of their contract, more than a month after the last one expired.  While Ergen is “cautiously optimistic” that the
satellite-TV provider will be able to reach an agreement with
Disney, nothing is final yet, he said in an interview yesterday
on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt .”  “We have a great relationship with most providers --
Disney has not been our best,” he said. “Our focus really is
to go out and make that our best relationship going forward.”  Dish’s contract with Disney, which allows the satellite
company to air networks such as ABC, ESPN and the Disney Channel
on its service, expired Sept. 30. The talks got snagged in part
because of Dish’s ad-skipping technology, which has raised
hackles among broadcasters, as well as terms for two new Disney
cable channels, people familiar with the matter have said.  At the time, the two companies decided to keep talking to
resolve the dispute, preventing a blackout of Disney programming
on Dish. A permanent deal is still not in place more than month
after the deadline.  Kevin Brockman, a spokesman for Burbank, California-based
Disney, declined to comment.  The companies also have a history of lawsuits. In March,
Englewood, Colorado-based Dish lost three of four claims against
ESPN over its programming contract, winning a jury award of
$4.85 million of the $153 million sought.  The latest remarks strike a different tone than Ergen took
three months ago, when he said on a conference call that Disney
had been “a good partner for us for a long period of time.”  Ergen said yesterday that the discussions will take “as
long as it takes to get a deal that’s fair for Disney, fair for
our consumers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  