-- Europe Stocks Advance a Fourth Week on Corporate Results
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-11-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/europe-stocks-advance-a-fourth-week-on-corporate-results.html
European stocks  advanced for a fourth
week as companies from BP Plc to Alcatel-Lucent SA posted
results that exceeded estimates, while cooling inflation fueled
speculation the European Central Bank may ease monetary policy.  BP posted its best week in 23 months after the oil producer
increased its dividend. Alcatel-Lucent rallied 18 percent after
predicting it will beat its cost-cutting targets this year and
reporting a narrower-than-forecast quarterly loss.  UBS AG (UBSN) 
dropped the most in almost two years after saying it may fail to
reach its profitability goal until at least 2016.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 0.4 percent to 321.50
this week, extending its rally so far this year to 15 percent.
The gauge climbed to a five-year high of 322.37 on Oct. 31,
capping its second consecutive month of gains.  “With Europe moving out of a recession we’re really in the
moment of truth for earnings,” said Didier Duret, who oversees
about $222 billion as chief investment officer for ABN Amro
Private Banking. “Inflation coming down substantially may
trigger an ECB rate cut in the following meetings. This is also
good for equities and is not yet fully priced into current
expectations.”  The euro had its biggest weekly loss since July 2012 after
data this week showed euro-area  inflation (ECCPEMUY)  unexpectedly slowed
and the jobless rate climbed to a record. “Any weakening of the
euro will add momentum to European earnings,” Duret said. “The
risks are now more on the upside.”  Falling Inflation  Inflation in the region fell to 0.7 percent in October, the
lowest annual rate since November 2009 and below the ECB’s
target of 2 percent. Economists at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, UBS, and Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit project
the central bank will cut its benchmark interest rate to 0.25
percent after its policy meeting next week. Still, 65 of 68
economists predict no change from 0.5 percent, estimates
compiled by Bloomberg News show.  In the U.S., the Federal Open Market Committee maintained
its monthly bond purchases at $85 billion this week and said
that while it sees signs of strength in the economy, it will
wait for more evidence of sustained improvement before slowing
stimulus. U.S. reports showed industrial production unexpectedly
increased in September, while business activity expanded in
October at the  fastest pace  since March 2011.  The FOMC dropped its warning from last month that tighter
financial conditions could impair the recovery. The odds for the
Fed to start reducing bond purchases in January rose to 45
percent from 25 percent before the statement, Citigroup Inc.
said. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg Oct. 17-18 predicted the
Fed would wait until March to begin the cuts.  National Indexes  National benchmark indexes rose in 14 of the 18 western
European markets this week. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  advanced 0.2
percent, while  Germany ’s DAX added 0.3 percent and  France ’s CAC
40 gained less than 0.1 percent.  BP rallied 7.5 percent, its biggest weekly increase since
December 2011, after raising its dividend by 5.6 percent to 9.5
cents a share as third-quarter profit slipped less than analysts
had predicted. Europe’s third-largest oil company also said it
will sell a further $10 billion of assets by the end of 2015 and
give most of the proceeds to shareholders, favoring buybacks.  Alcatel-Lucent jumped 18 percent, rebounding from its worst
week since April, after reporting a net loss of 200 million
euros ($270 million), compared with 316 million euros a year
earlier and analyst predictions of 274 million euros. Spending
cuts helped the French network-equipment maker save 259 million
euros so far this year, putting it on course to exceed its full-year target for as much as 300 million euros in savings.  Nokia Jumps  Nokia Oyj, which in September agreed to sell its mobile-phone division to Microsoft Corp., increased 12 percent. The
Finnish company predicted operating profit, excluding some
costs, will be as high as 16 percent of sales at its network
unit in the final quarter of 2013. That compares with 8.4
percent in the previous quarter.  BT Group Plc rose 5.4 percent after Britain’s biggest
fixed-line phone company reported a smaller-than-projected
decline in profit as more than 2 million customers subscribed to
its new BT Sport channels.  A gauge of telecommunications companies posted the  best
performance  of the 19 industry groups on the Stoxx 600 this
week, closing at its highest level in more than five years.
Telecom Italia SpA led with a 6.2 percent increase.  UBS slid 7.7 percent. Switzerland’s largest bank said its
target of reaching 15 percent  return on equity  in 2015 will be
delayed by at least a year unless the Swiss regulator removes
its demand that the lender hold more capital for risks related
to litigation.  Renault Slides  Renault SA fell 7.3 percent, after its partner, Nissan
Motor Co., cut its full-year profit forecast by 15 percent
because of slowing demand in  emerging markets  and mounting
recall costs.  Viscofan SA (VIS)  fell 9.6 percent, its largest weekly drop in
more than five years, after saying it may miss its targets for
2013 because of weak currencies. The Spanish maker of sausage
casings in July predicted annual net income of 107 million euros
to 108 million euros and earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of as much as 195 million euros.  Technip SA (TEC)  sank 15 percent, its biggest weekly retreat in
more than two years after third-quarter profit missed the
average analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg. The oilfield-services provider also cut full-year  forecasts  for the operating
margin and sales at its subsea unit, meaning total sales will
miss an earlier target of as much as 9.5 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  