-- Ex-Oppenheimer Broker Wins Bias Suit Over Minimum Wage Offer
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-11-01T16:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/ex-oppenheimer-broker-wins-sex-bias-suit-over-minimum-wage-offer.html
A former stock broker at  Oppenheimer
Holdings Inc. (OPY) ’s European unit won a discrimination lawsuit after
managers discussed cutting her salary to the U.K. legal minimum
of 6.80 pounds ($10.90) an hour, then fired her.  Isabel Sitz was “subject to sex discrimination in her
dismissal and leading up to it,” the London employment tribunal
said in an Oct. 16 decision. The court didn’t rule on
compensation.  “I think by law, we need to give you a statutory salary,
right?” Oppenheimer’s European chief executive officer, Max Lami, told Sitz in a 2012 mid-year review after the loss of a
key client and a decline in revenue, according a conversation
cited in the judgment. “You cannot go to zero.”  Sitz, who left work because of stress and was fired the
following month, took from the meeting that she should take
minimum wage or face being let go. Lami told tribunal judges the
pay cut was her suggestion, according to the ruling.  Financial-services workers from traders to senior
executives have used  London ’s employment tribunals to contest
their treatment and try to recover lost compensation. Plaintiffs
haven’t had much success in a climate where sympathy for highly
paid bankers is hard to find.  The tribunal rejected her claim that race discrimination
had played a part in her dismissal.  Possible Appeal  “We are proud that both our male and female employees,
comprising over a dozen nationalities, testified that the
company does not engage in discrimination in the workplace,”
Oppenheimer said in an e-mailed statement. The company said it
is disappointed by the decision and may appeal.  Andrej Pungerl, a lawyer at the the firm representing Sitz,
said the ruling reflected the “appalling treatment suffered at
Oppenheimer.” If she hadn’t been discriminated against “her
trajectory was that of a top, senior broker.”  The finding of discrimination means the usual cap on
damages for unfair dismissal, about 70,000 pounds, won’t apply.
Pungerl said he couldn’t say how much was being sought in the
case and that it was filed as a matter of principle, not for
financial gain.  Sitz, who covered U.S. equities and financial firms, earned
about 95,000 pounds in 2012. The minimum wage would have given
her an annual salary of about 15,000 pounds. Lami had talked
about underperformance at the unit and “changing the structure
of compensation,” tribunal judges said.  ‘Sweetheart’  The tribunal found that the minimum wage wasn’t discussed
with male colleagues, and that they were given more help getting
new clients. Oppenheimer didn’t properly investigate allegations
of discrimination, and failed to address sexist e-mails, the
judges said. Sitz was called “sweetheart” by a male colleague,
according to the ruling.  She told Lami that male brokers had more accounts in a June
2012 phone conversation cited in the tribunal judgment. “That’s
because I am a woman,” she said. “As simple as that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  