-- Texas Women’s Clinics Cease Abortions Under Court Ruling
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g ,   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-11-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/texas-women-s-clinics-cease-abortions-under-court-ruling.html
Texas  women’s clinics in five cities
will stop providing abortions after a U.S. appeals court
temporarily allowed enforcement of a law requiring doctors who
perform the procedure have local hospital admission privileges.  Whole Woman’s Health, a gynecological services provider
with six locations in the state, said facilities in McAllen and
Fort Worth would no longer perform abortions, and abortions at
its San Antonio facility will be curtailed.  Planned Parenthood 
Federation of America said its clinics in Austin, Lubbock, Waco
and Fort Worth have also ceased offering the procedure.  Abortion rights proponents have warned that a third of the
state’s more than 40 providers may cease offering the procedure
if the law is upheld.  “The courts have given us no choice but to roll out our
contingency plans for the discontinuation of abortion
services,” Amy Hagstrom Miller, chief executive officer of
Whole Woman’s Health, said yesterday. She said at a press
conference in Austin that her clinics have canceled 48
appointments. “The staff and physicians in our clinics now face
furlough and  likely unemployment.”  Rational Relation  The decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals in  New Orleans 
delayed application of an Oct. 28 ruling by U.S. District Judge
Lee Yeakel in Austin. Yeakel held that the Texas statute, signed
in July by Republican Governor  Rick Perry , wasn’t rationally
related to protecting the health of women or a fetus. The New
Orleans court said the law may be enforced while it considers
the state’s appeal because it doesn’t present an undue burden to
abortion rights, a key constitutional test.  Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott , a Republican running to
replace Perry next year, said the unanimous decision by the
three-judge panel, all appointed by Republican President  George W. Bush , “is a vindication of the careful deliberation by the
Texas Legislature to craft a law to protect the health and
safety of Texas women.”  The provision challenged by abortion providers including
Planned Parenthood compels doctors who perform the procedure to
have admitting privileges at a hospital within 30 miles (48
kilometers) of their clinics.  It was enacted with a package of other abortion-restricting
measures on July 18. Opposition to the law by Democratic State
Senator Wendy R. Davis of  Fort Worth , who staged an unsuccessful
10-hour filibuster in June, provided a catalyst for her own bid
to succeed Perry as governor.  Force Closure  The plaintiffs argued the provision would force clinics to
close and deny women across a wide swath of the second-biggest
U.S. state access to the procedure.  Yeakel’s decision, rendered after a three-day trial,
prevented the law from taking effect as scheduled on Oct. 29.  The affiliation requirement “does not bear a rational
relationship to the legitimate right of the state in preserving
and promoting fetal life or a woman’s health,” said the judge,
also an appointee of Bush.  Similar laws have been temporarily blocked by federal
courts in  Wisconsin ,  Alabama  and  Mississippi  and by a state
court order in  North Dakota . The Texas law is the first to be
reinstated by an appeals court.  “This fight is far from over,”  Cecile Richards , president
of Planned Parenthood, said in an e-mailed statement. “This
restriction clearly violates Texas women’s constitutional rights
by drastically reducing access to safe and legal abortion
statewide.”  Admitting Privileges  Physicians who perform abortions at Whole Woman’s Health
clinics in Fort Worth and McAllen do not have admitting
privileges at nearby hospitals, so the clinic operator is
canceling appointments at those sites, Fatimah Gifford, a
spokeswoman for the organization, said in an interview. The
physicians are seeking those privileges and it’s unclear how
long that process will take, she said.  In San Antonio, Whole Woman’s Health’s sole physician with
admitting privileges is only available during weekends, Gifford
said. The San Antonio clinic has employed other physicians not
affiliated with local hospitals, she said.  Planned Parenthood physicians in that group’s Texas clinics
that no longer offer abortions are seeking hospital admitting
privileges, the group said yesterday in a statement. Clinics in
Houston,  Dallas  and  San Antonio  will continue offering the
procedure, Planned Parenthood said.  Texas Hospitals  The Texas Hospital Association opposed the “admitting
privileges” requirement of the Texas law during this year’s
legislative session, said spokesman Lance Lunsford. Some Texas
hospitals affiliated with various religious denominations don’t
want to admit physicians who provide abortion services, he said.  While the association didn’t take a position on abortion,
its leaders told lawmakers that admitting privileges involve
broader issues, including number of hours spent by the physician
at the hospital, Lunsford said. If a physician who performs
abortions didn’t perform any procedures in the hospital, for
example, there is no process for the hospital to grant
privileges, according to the association.  In other states, such as Mississippi, religiously
affiliated hospitals and those seeking to avoid anti-abortion
demonstrations have declined to grant admitting privileges to
doctors who perform abortions.  Priscilla Owen  U.S. Circuit Judge Priscilla R. Owen, whose appointment was
challenged by Democrats for four years, wrote the decision
allowing the new Texas law to be enforced.  “There was evidence offered by Planned Parenthood that
more than 90 percent of the women seeking an abortion in Texas
would be able to obtain an abortion from a physician within 100
miles of their respective residences even if” the new law took
effect, Owen said.  “This does not constitute an undue burden in a large
fraction of the relevant cases,” Owen said. Joining in her
opinion were U.S. Circuit Judges Jennifer Walker Elrod and
Catharina Haynes.  The judges also blocked part of Yeakel’s decision
concerning the dispensation of pregnancy-terminating drugs,
calling it “overly broad.”  The panel expedited the state’s appeal and directed the
court’s clerk to schedule oral arguments in January.  “Because of this ruling, at least 13 or more clinics in
Texas will close and irreparable damage will be done to women’s
health in Texas,” Heather Busby, executive director of  NARAL
Pro-Choice Texas , said in a phone interview. “It’s a tragedy.
No recourse is apparent to me.”  Ruling Praised  Joe Pojman, executive director of  Texas Alliance for Life ,
which opposes abortion, praised the ruling because he said it
will lead to safer clinics.  Texas Governor Perry said the decision affirms the state’s
right to protect fetuses and the health of the women.  “We will continue doing everything we can to protect a
culture of life in our state,” he said in a statement.  Republicans expect Democrats in 2014 to use the ruling as
an example of a “war on women,” said Matt Mackowiak, a
Republican political consultant in Austin. He said he doubts
that argument will sway voters.  Davis knows abortion is unpopular in Texas, Mackowiak said.  “It’s very unusual because folks on the left want to use
this issue, but their nominee doesn’t,” Mackowiak said. “She
became a star because of this issue, yet now she is choosing to
de-emphasize it.”  Bo Delp, a spokesman for Davis, didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  The appellate case is Planned Parenthood v. Abbott,
13-51008,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Fifth Circuit (New
Orleans). The lower-court case is Planned Parenthood of Greater
Texas Surgical Health Services v. Abbott, 13-cv-00862, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at   dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 