-- Mexican Congress Passes Tax Bill With Higher Junk Food Levy
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-11-01T16:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/mexican-congress-passes-tax-bill-with-higher-junk-food-levy.html
Mexico ’s congress increased a
proposed junk food levy as it passed a tax bill championed by
President Enrique Pena Nieto to reduce the nation’s dependence
on oil revenue and promote growth.  The lower house voted 299-160 with one abstention yesterday
to impose an 8 percent tax on high calorie foods, such as
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ’s Cheetos, following the same decision by the
Senate. The measure, which also raises income taxes and creates
new duties on capital gains and sugary drinks, now awaits Pena
Nieto’s signature. The senate version raised the tax on junk
food from an originally proposed 5 percent.  Pena Nieto plans to lift growth, which slowed more than the
government expected this year, by shifting taxes away from the
state-controlled energy sector to spur both public and private
investment in oil. The president overcame political opposition
to pass the reform, which bodes well for his proposal to break a
75-year state monopoly on oil, according to Alonso Cervera,
chief Mexico economist of Credit Suisse Group AG.  “This is the most challenging reform he has faced and he’s
been successful,” Cervera said in a telephone interview. “This
is a good reform to strengthen public finances and give the
government more flexibility to spend.”  The peso weakened 0.4 percent to 13.0680 per dollar at
10:35 a.m. in Mexico City. The yield on fixed-rate peso-denominated  government bonds  due in 2024 rose five basis points
to 6.08 percent.  Soda Impact  The lower house approved changes made by the senate to
reduce the income tax for those who earn between 500,000 pesos
($38,384) and 750,000 pesos per year to 30 percent from the 31
percent initially passed by the house. The measure still raises
the income tax ceiling to 35 percent from 30 percent for high
earners and leaves untouched a new tax on sugary drinks of 1
peso per liter passed by the house.  The National Soft Drink Producers Association, which
includes  Coca-Cola Femsa SAB (KOFL)  and  Arca Continental SAB (AC*) , Latin
America’s biggest Coca-Cola bottlers, estimates that a 1 peso
per-liter soda tax would result in the loss of 20,000 jobs, from
workers who cut sugar cane to those in factories.  Carlos Capistran, chief Mexico economist at Bank of America
Corp., said the new levies won’t sufficiently widen the tax base
and may negatively impact companies.  Stocks from  Latin America ’s biggest Coca-Cola bottlers have
fallen since Pena Nieto presented the tax bill Sept. 8. Coca-Cola Femsa lost 6.1 percent and Arca has dropped 8.7 percent.  Reduced Incentives  “I worry a bit that the new taxes may reduce incentives to
invest,” Capistran said in an e-mailed request for comment
earlier this week. “In the end, the reform is getting more
resources from debt than from taxes in 2014, which increases
public debt and is something to monitor going forward.”  Pena Nieto presented along with his tax measure a proposal
for a 2014 budget deficit of 1.5 percent of gross domestic
product, excluding investment in Pemex. Congress had approved a
balanced budget for this year. He’s also proposed a bill
currently before the senate to increase private investment in
the energy sector.  Grupo Bimbo SAB, a maker and vendor of bakery products, is
reviewing the option of “reformulating” some of its products
to lower their caloric density, Chief Executive Officer Daniel Servitje said in an Oct. 24 conference call.  In addition to the junk food tax, the legislation imposes a
10 percent levy on  capital gains , a 7.5 percent duty on mining
company profits and an increase in sales taxes in regions
bordering the U.S. to 16 percent from 11 percent, bringing them
in line with the rest of the country.  Last-Minute Accord  The opposition Democratic Revolution Party, or PRD, said it
reached a last-minute agreement with the  Finance Ministry  to
change the bill in the Senate on Oct. 30 as yesterday’s deadline
loomed for passage of the 2014 revenue portion of the nation’s
budget.  The revenue plan was approved late yesterday with a
spending budget of 4.467 trillion pesos, 3 billion pesos less
than the lower house’s proposal, after the Senate altered the
 tax reform .  The largest opposition  National Action Party  voted against
the tax overhaul.  Analysts forecast the economy will grow 1.2 percent this
year from 3.9 percent in 2012 after the government reduced
spending in the first half and exports to the U.S. stagnated,
according to an Oct. 22 survey by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  