-- Mexico Wooing Energy Cash Puts Peso on No Lose Path: Currencies
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-11-01T11:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/mexico-wooing-energy-cash-puts-peso-on-no-lose-path-currencies.html
Foreign-exchange strategists are
rallying behind planned energy reforms in  Mexico  designed to
attract international investment, forecasting gains in the peso
versus every major currency.  Mexico’s peso will climb next year against all 31 of the
most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg, including a 5.3
percent increase versus the dollar and an 11.2 percent advance
against the euro, according to median estimates in analyst
surveys. Options betting on one-month implied volatility signal
investors are the most confident in the peso since May.  President Enrique Pena Nieto presented a bill to Congress
on Aug. 12 to end a seven-decade state energy monopoly in what
the government is calling the biggest economic overhaul since
the 1994  North American Free Trade Agreement .  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  are among producers that expressed
interest in Mexican  oil fields .  “Energy reform is good from a foreign direct-investment
perspective, which is also a very positive thing for the peso,”
 Michael Ganske , the London-based head of emerging markets at
Rogge Global Partners Plc, said in an Oct. 29 phone interview.
The firm oversees $8.5 billion of developing-nation currency and
fixed-income assets.  Energy Proposal  The energy plan is the centerpiece of constitutional
changes proposed by Pena Nieto that he said could boost growth
in  Latin America ’s biggest economy after  Brazil  to 6 percent a
year. Lawmakers approved a preliminary version of a bill last
month that amends Mexico’s charter to bolster tax collection and
passed laws this year to overhaul the nation’s education system
and increase competition in the telecommunications industry.  The central bank signaled last week it will stop cutting
 interest rates , which may also boost the appeal of the peso to
international investors and help to curb above-target inflation.  “The central bank’s explicit forward guidance means
they’re getting more constructive on growth, which should be
positive for the currency,” said Ganske. He added that Rogge
Global is “long” the peso, betting it will strengthen.  Any gains would extend the peso’s rebound from a 13-month
low of 13.466 per dollar on Sept. 3 to 13.0488 at 7:40 a.m. in
 New York .  Peso Options  The  Mexican peso  will be one of just three major
currencies, along with  China ’s  yuan  and  Turkey ’s lira, to gain
versus the greenback by the end of the first quarter, Bloomberg
analyst surveys suggest. Mexico’s currency will rise 11.8
percent against Argentina’s peso and 5.2 percent versus the
Brazilian real.  The options market is also showing confidence in Mexico’s
peso. One-month implied volatility fell to 9.68 percent
yesterday, its lowest level since May 22 and down from a one-year high of 17.83 percent on June 20, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Smaller price swings make a currency less risky
for an investor to hold.  By allowing private companies to pump Mexican crude for the
first time since 1938, Pena Nieto, 47, intends to loosen state-owned Petroleos Mexicanos’s grip on production and attract the
investment needed to reverse an eight-year drop in oil output.  Under the bill, foreign companies would receive a portion
of profit while assuming risks to tap reserves that they can’t
currently access. A Chevron spokesman said before the bill was
released in August that the company welcomed Mexico’s “new
opportunities for investments.” Shell Upstream Americas
Director Marvin Odum said June 7 that Mexico had “enormous”
potential and a “strong and growing” relationship with Pemex.  Faltering Growth  “The idea that foreign direct inflows are going to
increase quite a bit” will buoy the peso, Alvise Marino, an
 emerging-markets  currency strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG
in New York, said in an Oct. 29 phone interview. “The outlook
for Mexico politically just looks a lot more appealing than it
does in many other countries.”  Credit Suisse sees the peso slipping to 13.06 per dollar by
year-end, before climbing to 12.63 by the end of the third
quarter of 2014, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Any advance may take time to gather pace amid faltering
growth in Mexico and the U.S., said Jeavon Lolay, a director of
global research at Lloyds Banking Group Plc in  London .  Mexico cut its 2013 growth forecast to 1.7 percent in
September, from 3.5 percent at the start of the year, after
 industrial production  contracted 0.6 percent in the second
quarter and retail sales  shrank  in August for the second time in
three months.  Lost Gloss  “It’s lost a bit of its gloss as of late,” Lolay said in
an Oct. 29 phone interview. “Although we’re positive on it,
we’re positive on it when the U.S. is doing well,” rather than
“on its own merits.” Lloyds estimates the peso will end this
year at 13 per dollar, before rising to 12.2 by end-2014. Mexico
sends almost 80 percent of its exports to the U.S.  Slower growth in Mexico will help rein in consumer-price
increases, the central bank said Oct. 25.  Annual inflation  has
slowed in each of the past five months to 3.39 percent in
September, compared with a target of 3 percent.  The peso gained 0.7 percent on Oct. 25 as  Banco de Mexico 
lowered its benchmark overnight  lending rate  to a record 3.5
percent from 3.75 percent, while saying in a statement further
cuts “aren’t recommended” in the foreseeable future.  “This underlines their credibility as one of the most
conservative central banks in the world,”  Eric Fine , a New
York-based money manager at Van Eck Global, which oversees $5
billion in emerging-market assets, said in an Oct. 29 phone
interview. The energy reforms are “the kinds of things that can
take a country to the next level and generate upward pressure on
the currency.”  Positive Outlook  Options traders are becoming more bullish on the peso,
narrowing the premium on contracts to sell the Mexican currency
compared with those allowing for purchases. The three-month 25-delta risk-reversal rate was at 2.79 percent yesterday, down
from a one-year high of 4.51 percent in June, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “The short-term impact of the rate-cut decision has me
fairly constructive on the peso heading into year-end,”  Eduardo Suarez , a Latin America foreign-exchange strategist in Toronto
at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , said in an Oct. 28 phone interview.
“It’s quite foreseeable that foreign direct investment will be
boosted a lot, which will support the peso.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  