-- Facebook Holds Line on Balance of Ads for User Experience
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-11-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/facebook-holds-line-on-balance-of-ads-for-user-experience.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  has decided not to push
the limits of how many online advertisements people can
tolerate.  The world’s largest social-networking company said this
week that it doesn’t plan to increase the balance of ads that it
shows to users in their news feeds, the main hub for content on
its services. Facebook said ads took up 5 percent of the posts
in news feeds in the second quarter and have risen only modestly
since then. That amounts to about one ad for every 20 photos,
status updates or other posts.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  is trying to keep
users happy with plenty of content from their friends without
distracting people with ads, while inserting enough marketing
messages to boost revenue. The delicate balancing act is one
that Internet companies from  Twitter Inc. (TWTR)  to  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  also
face and will affect how they generate sales over the long run.  Now the Menlo Park, California-based company will need to
increase revenue by pulling other levers, including higher ad
prices and more user accounts.  “You’ve got to find other ways to monetize other than
increasing the volume of ads,” said Hussein Fazal, CEO of
AdParlor, part of AdKnowledge, a digital marketing firm. “It’s
just all about user experience. The one thing that scares
investors in Facebook the most is that people start using other
sites outside of Facebook -- and ads could be a big reason.”  Users Engage  The company is pulling back on an ad expansion even as
users are engaging more with the service. Daily active users
rose to 728 million in the third quarter, or 61 percent of the
monthly-active user base, from 58 percent in the year-ago
period. At the same time,  revenue  surged 60 percent to $2.02
billion, exceeding the average projection for $1.91 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “As we think about the future, we do not expect to
significantly increase ads as a percentage of News Feed stories
beyond where we were at the end of” the quarter, Chief
Financial Officer  David Ebersman  said.  With news feed ads, promotions are placed amid updates from
friends, including on desktop computers and on mobile devices,
which is driving sales growth. So someone can see a promotion
for  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  between baby photos and engagement
announcements. By contrast, traditional online banner ads are
stuck in a static area of a Web page or on a smartphone.  Setting Precedent?  “We are very focused on managing this for the long-term to
create a great experience for users because ultimately that’s
what’s most valuable for them, and advertisers who want to reach
them,” said Will Cathcart, product management director at
Facebook.  The results of Facebook’s decision will be closely watched
by competitors such as Twitter and LinkedIn that also place ads
in content feeds that can be scrolled through on desktops and
mobile phones, said James Borow, CEO at Shift Inc., which
specializes in social marketing.  “People will continue to see that Facebook’s respect for
the user will lead to monetary success,” Borow said. “If you
get people using your service more and more, you do have more
opportunities to monetize, and I think that’s a precedent
they’re setting.”  Companies that overwhelm Web surfers with ads pollute the
experience, said Clark Fredricksen, an analyst with EMarketer
Inc. in New York. Facebook’s former nemesis, MySpace, forced
more advertising on users after the company was purchased by
 News Corp. (NWSA)  in 2005 for $580 million and members eventually tired
of the excessive marketing, he said. News Corp. agreed to sell
MySpace in 2011 for $35 million to Specific Media Inc. after it
lost its lead to Facebook.  Cluttered Experience  “Ultimately, that contributed to a very cluttered user
experience that, combined with the emergence of Facebook,
contributed to its downfall,” Fredricksen said. He added that
the balance of ads is less important in pushing revenue
increases than growth in users and pricing of ads.  That benefits Facebook, with Ebersman noting that the
average price of online ads rose more than 40 percent in the
third  quarter  compared to an increase of 13 percent in the
second quarter. In the U.S. and  Canada , mature markets for the
company, the gain was more than 60 percent, he said.  As Facebook limits the frequency of its ads, the company is
also working to increase their quality. It is getting help from
outside marketing developers, who are building custom tools and
features to manage and evaluate the effectiveness of
advertisements for their own customers. On a call with investors
this week, Facebook Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg said
the program is an “important trend influencing our growth.”  More Resources  Facebook also moved over sales executive Mike Randall three
months ago to run the preferred marketing developer program. He
will focus on developers who have international and mobile
experience, areas where Facebook wants to better target users
with ads. Many developers also have expertise in industries like
pharmaceutical and auto, so they can build better tools for
Facebook marketers and take a cut of the profits.  “There’s so many marketer objectives that it would be
nearly impossible for us to follow all of those on our own,”
Randall said. “We’ve had an ecosystem out there for a while,
but now we have to take the next step and focus on the
developers in the areas that are important to Facebook.”  Last month, Facebook said it was expanding a service to let
companies target users based on their online activity outside of
the social network. Facebook’s Instagram photo-sharing service
is also set to start selling promotions.  A limit on ads can be good for advertisers as well,
especially since they want promotions placed on services that
people actually visit online, said John Tuchtenhagen, a vice
president at Publicis Groupe SA’s Digitas unit.  “We want to reach users in an environment that they enjoy
and that they positively connect with,” Tuchtenhagen said.  -- Editors: Pui-Wing Tam, Jillian Ward  To contact the reporters on this story:  Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  