-- Fantex to Buy 10 Percent of Future Earnings of 49ers’ Davis
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-11-01T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/fantex-to-buy-10-percent-of-future-earnings-of-49ers-davis.html
Fantex Inc. has agreed to buy 10
percent of the future earnings of San Francisco 49ers tight end
 Vernon Davis  for $4 million in advance of selling shares to the
public.  Two weeks ago, Fantex announced the first public offering
for an athlete when it filed to raise $10.6 million priced at
$10 a share, according to a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Fantex’s main source of income was listed
as  Arian Foster , a running back for the Houston Texans who has
pledged 20 percent of the money he earns both inside and outside
the  National Football League  to the company in exchange for most
of the proceeds of the IPO.  Under terms of the agreement with Davis, Fantex’s plans are
contingent upon its ability to raise financing to pay the $4
million purchase price upfront to Davis.  Davis, 29, selected sixth overall out of the  University of
Maryland  in the first round of the 2006  NFL Draft  by the 49ers,
has caught 29 passes for 518 yards and seven touchdowns this
season.  When Davis signed a five-year, $23 million contract with
the 49ers in 2010, he became the highest-paid tight end at the
time. His base salary this year, before endorsements, is more
than $6 million.  Davis lost an endorsement deal with Vita Coco brand coconut
water when he talked about a rival drink on his Twitter site
this month, according to ESPN. He still has deals with Force
Factor sports supplements and beef jerky brand Krave.  San Francisco-based Fantex lists among the risks in the
stock the chance that a player will be injured.  Foster’s Injury  Foster injured his hamstring in a game against the  Kansas
City Chiefs  on Oct. 20. The 27-year-old is in the second year of
a five-year contract with the Texans, where he’s eligible to
receive a salary of as much as $23.5 million through the 2016
season, the filing shows.  Foster currently has endorsement contracts with companies
such as  Under Armour Inc. (UA)  and Kroger Co. The  Pro Bowl  running
back also recently acquired an undisclosed stake in Health
Warrior Inc., the closely held nutrition company known for its
chia bars.  Fantex Brokerage Services LLC is managing the offering
along with Stifel Financial Corp. No investor will be allowed to
purchase or hold more than 1 percent of any series of common
stock issued by the company, the filing shows. Orders for the
stock will be posted and executed by Fantex’s brokerage’s
alternative trading system, and the shares won’t be listed on
the  New York  Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq Stock Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  