-- Fed’s Lacker Says Cautious Consumers Restraining Economic Growth
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-11-01T19:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/fed-s-lacker-says-cautious-consumers-restraining-economic-growth.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said consumer-spending growth probably
can’t exceed a 2 percent pace as labor-market gains are offset
by Americans still worried about spending and employment.  The probability of another deep recession is “bigger than
we thought” and households are likely to continue managing
their finances cautiously as a result, Lacker said today in
response to questions after a speech in Philadelphia. While the
labor market has improved “pretty significantly,” Lacker said
he’s “skeptical” about the prospects for a pickup in real
gross domestic product growth.  “Consumers just have a much more apprehensive sense of the
risks that a typical household faces in the labor market today,
and I think that’s legitimate if you look back,” Lacker said.
“Consumers are looking after their balance sheets and doing
what they can to make it align with their lifetime strategy.”  The Fed’s $85 billion a month in asset purchases to boost
hiring are having a “modest” effect, and longer-term effects
of the unprecedented easing are “highly uncertain,” Lacker
said after a speech to the Global Interdependence Center.  The Fed said this week it will keep up the bond buying
that’s pushed its balance sheet to a record  $3.84 trillion  until
it sees more evidence that the economy will continue to improve.
Even after  federal budget  cuts and tax increases, the economy
and labor market still are showing “underlying strength,”
policy makers said in their Oct. 30 statement after a two-day
meeting in  Washington .  Lacker, 58, doesn’t vote on policy again until 2015. He
became president of the Richmond Fed in 2004 after five years as
director of the regional bank’s  research department .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Philadelphia at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  