-- Fed to Test Banks for Interest Rate Rise, Housing Collapse
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-11-01T20:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/fed-to-test-banks-for-interest-rate-rise-housing-collapse-1-.html
The  Federal Reserve  said it will
examine how the biggest banks might react to a jump in long-term
interest rates and another housing crash as it released the next
round of  stress-test  scenarios designed to monitor the ability
of the U.S. financial system to withstand economic shocks.  The central bank mentioned that as part of two adverse
scenarios it will gauge bank resilience against declines in the
prices of high-risk, high-yield loans and debt and some high-priced real estate markets around the country, according to a
statement released in  Washington  today. The central bank also
inserted a test for large trading and clearing banks on
counterparty default.  The Fed is using the tests -- based on hypothetical
adverse conditions and not forecasts -- to encourage the 30
biggest banks to build capital cushions against economic
turmoil. The central bank said 12 of the banks will be subject
to the capital review for the first time.  “The aim of the annual reviews is to ensure that large
financial institutions have robust, forward-looking capital
planning processes that account for their unique risks, and to
help ensure that they have sufficient capital to continue
operations throughout times of economic and financial stress,”
the Fed said in the statement.  Risk-Weighted Assets  The 18 bank holding companies tested previously have
increased their aggregate tier 1 common capital to $836 billion
in the second quarter of 2013 from $392 billion in the first
quarter of 2009, the Fed said in a press release. Their tier 1
common ratio, which compares capital to risk-weighted assets,
has more than doubled to a weighted average of 11.1 percent from
5.3 percent, the Fed said.  The six banks with large trading operations will be
required to test how their portfolios would perform against a
global shock to financial markets. They are  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , Morgan Stanley and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  The Fed will release
the details of that scenario “soon” according to the release.  Those banks, as well as Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp. and
 State Street Corp. (STT)  will also have to test against a scenario in
which one of their counterparties experiences an “instantaneous
and unexpected” default. This test was designed to see if banks
could withstand the failure of their largest counterparties,
unlike previous tests which focused on incremental defaults as
the economy eroded, a Fed official said on a conference call
with reporters.  Too Heavily  The test suggests Fed officials remain concerned that banks
might still rely too heavily on single or weak counterparties to
hedge potential losses on assets and other commitments, a trend
that contributed to the 2008 financial crisis. Banks have argued
in past years that they can mitigate risks by purchasing
protection such as credit-default swaps from counterparties.  Goldman Sachs and other firms had purchased protection
from New York-based insurer American International Group Inc.,
allowing them to subtract the CDS on their books from their
reported subprime mortgage debt holdings.  When prices of mortgage securities started falling in 2008,
AIG was required to post more collateral to its CDS
counterparties. It ran out of cash doing so, and the U.S.
government took over the company. If AIG had collapsed, what the
banks saw as a hedge of their mortgage portfolios would have
disappeared, leading to billions of dollars in losses.  Credit Risk  The Fed, seeking to reduce the chance that one failing
company would topple others, proposed in December 2011 to cap
how much counterparty credit risk a bank could have with any
systemically important trading partner. The limit would be 10
percent of regulatory capital.  The proposal has been stuck in limbo without being finalized
after heavy lobbying by banks. JPMorgan, Citigroup and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  were among lenders arguing that the limit was poorly
constructed, overstated risk and would restrain the economy. It
could cut U.S. economic growth and destroy 300,000 jobs, Goldman
Sachs warned last year.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency released a
parallel set of scenarios today for national banks and federal
savings associations above $10 billion to follow in their
“company-run” testing. As in the Fed version, the OCC also set
hypothetical baseline, adverse and several adverse conditions
for the exercises.  First Test  The Fed conducted its first stress test in 2009 to promote
transparency over bank assets and determine their potential
losses in an adverse economy. Confidence in banks was low
because portfolios were opaque, capital was scarce and job
losses were rising during the worst recession since the Great
Depression.  After the test, 10 of the 19 largest banks were required to
raise $75 billion in total equity capital.  Since then the tests have evolved into an exercise in
forward-looking capital planning. The Fed’s Comprehensive
Capital Analysis and Review will examine how risk management and
governance policies at the largest banks shape dividend and
share buyback policies.  The Fed in August released a report that criticized the
largest banks for falling short in at least one of five areas
deemed critical to risk management and capital planning. These
included “generating projections for at least some components
of loss, revenue, or expenses using approaches that were not
robust, transparent, and/or repeatable.”  Stocks Rise  The KBW Bank Index, which tracks shares of 24 large U.S.
banks, is up more than 25 percent this year compared with a 23
percent gain for the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index.  In the “severely adverse” scenario, the unemployment rate
peaks at 11.25 percent, stocks fall nearly 50 percent and U.S.
housing prices decline 25 percent while the euro area also sinks
into recession. Developing economies in  Asia  also experience a
“sharp slowdown,” the Fed said.  In an “adverse” scenario, banks will be tested against
global flight from long-term debt that pushes the  U.S. economy 
into a recession, with unemployment rising to 9.25 percent. The
yield on the U.S. 10-year Treasury note jumps to 5.75 percent by
the end of 2014, and corporate bond and mortgage rates also
rise.  “The biggest concern for banks today, which is the risk of
rising  interest rates , aren’t stressed well enough in these
tests,” said Chris Whalen, managing director at Carrington
Holding Co. LLC in Greenwich,  Connecticut . “When rates rise,
liquidity will diminish a great deal as well and the tests are
assuming constant liquidity.”  Larger Decline  The Fed said in an outline of the tests that the larger
decline in U.S.  house prices  in this year’s severely adverse
scenario is “particularly relevant for states or metropolitan
statistical areas that have experienced brisk gains in house
prices over the past year.”  The wider corporate borrowing spreads featured in both
tests are “intended to represent a corresponding widening in
spreads across all corporate borrowing rating tiers and
instruments, particularly those instruments -- such as high-yield corporate bonds and leveraged loans -- that are at present
experiencing particularly narrow spreads,” the central bank
said.  The test was designed in part to build resiliency in the
financial system against what some would define as emerging
bubbles, according to a Fed official who spoke on the conference
call with reporters.  Early January  Companies will have until the first week of January to
submit their capital plans, and the results will be released in
March.  This year, the Fed will reveal how banks fare under both
scenarios. Previously the central bank did not disclose the
results in the scenario that included rising interest rates.  The eight banks with more complicated scenarios have been
through the Fed’s stress test and capital planning process
before, as have  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) ,  American Express Co. (AXP) ,  BB&T
Corp. (BBT) ,  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) ,  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB) ,
 KeyCorp (KEY) , PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.,  Regions Financial
Corp (RF) , SunTrust Banks, Inc., and U.S. Bancorp.  Twelve banks will be participating in the process for the
first time. Those banks are BMO Financial Corp., BBVA Compass
Bancshares, Inc.,  Comerica Inc. (CMA) ,  Discover Financial Services (DFS) ,
HSBC North America Holdings Inc., Huntington Bancshares Inc.,
 M&T Bank Corp. (MTB) ,  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS) , RBS Citizens Financial
Group, Inc., Santander Holdings USA, Inc., UnionBanCal Corp.,
and Zions Bancorp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  