-- Fed to Test Banks Against Interest Rate Rise, Housing Collapse
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-11-01T18:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/fed-to-test-banks-against-interest-rate-rise-housing-collapse.html
The  Federal Reserve  said it will
examine how the biggest banks might react to a jump in long-term
 interest rates  and another housing crash as it released the next
round of stress-test scenarios designed to monitor the ability
of the U.S. financial system to withstand economic shocks.  The central bank in two adverse scenarios will measure the
impact from rising  prices  in some U.S. property markets and
tightening spreads on high-yield, high-risk loans and bonds,
according to a release by the Fed today in  Washington .  The Fed is using the tests -- based on hypothetical adverse
conditions instead of forecasts -- to encourage the 30 biggest
banks to build capital cushions against economic turmoil. The
Fed said 12 additional banks will be subject to the capital
review.  The 18 bank holding companies tested previously have
increased their aggregate tier 1 common capital to $836 billion
in the second quarter of 2013 from $392 billion in the first
quarter of 2009, the Fed said in a press release. Their tier 1
common ratio, which compares capital to risk-weighted assets,
has more than doubled to a weighted average of 11.1 percent from
5.3 percent, the Fed said.  The Fed conducted its first  stress test  in 2009 to promote
transparency over bank assets and determine their potential
losses in an adverse economy. Confidence in banks was low
because portfolios were opaque, capital was scarce and job
losses were rising during the worst recession since the Great
Depression.  Total Capital  After the test, 10 of the 19 largest banks were required to
raise $75 billion in total equity capital.  Since then the tests have evolved into an exercise in
forward-looking capital planning. The Fed’s Comprehensive
Capital Analysis and Review will examine how risk management and
governance policies at the largest banks shape dividend and
share buyback policies.  The Fed in August released a report that criticized the
largest banks for falling short in at least one of five areas
deemed critical to risk management and capital planning. These
included “generating projections for at least some components of
loss, revenue, or expenses using approaches that were not
robust, transparent, and/or repeatable.”  The KBW Bank Index, which tracks shares of 24 large U.S.
banks, is up more than 25 percent this year compared with a 23
percent gain for the Standard and Poor’s 500 stock index.  Unemployment Peaks  In the “severely adverse” scenario, the  unemployment rate 
peaks at 11.25 percent, stocks fall nearly 50 percent and U.S.
housing prices decline 25 percent while the euro area also sinks
into recession. Developing economies in  Asia  also experience a
“sharp slowdown,” the Fed said.  In an “adverse” scenario, banks will be tested against
global flight from long-term debt that pushes the  U.S. economy 
into a recession, with unemployment rising to 9.25 percent. The
yield on the U.S. 10-year Treasury note jumps to 5.75 percent by
the end of 2014, and corporate bond and mortgage rates also
rise.  The Fed said in an outline of the tests that the larger
decline in U.S.  house prices  in this year’s severely adverse
scenario is “particularly relevant for states or metropolitan
statistical areas that have experienced brisk gains in house
prices over the past year.”  The wider  corporate borrowing spreads  featured in both
tests are “intended to represent a corresponding widening in
spreads across all corporate borrowing rating tiers and
instruments, particularly those instruments -- such as high-yield corporate bonds and leveraged loans--that are at present
experiencing particularly narrow spreads,” the central bank
said.  Build Resiliency  The test was designed in part to build resiliency in the
financial system against what some would define as emerging
bubbles, according to a Fed official who spoke on a conference
call with reporters.  Companies will have until the first week of January to
submit their capital plans, and the results will be released in
March.  This year, the Fed will reveal how banks fare under both
scenarios. Previously the central bank did not disclose the
results in the scenario that included rising interest rates.  The six banks with large trading operations,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (GS) ,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Wells Fargo & Co . will
be required to test how their portfolios would perform against a
global shock to financial markets. The Fed will release the
details of that scenario “soon” according to the release.  Unexpected Default  Those banks, as well as Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp. and
State Street Corp. will also have to test against a scenario in
which one of their counterparties experiences an “instantaneous
and unexpected” default. This counter-party test was designed to
see if banks could withstand the failure of their largest
counterparties, unlike previous tests which focused on
incremental defaults as the economy eroded, a Fed official said
on the conference call.  The eight banks with more complicated scenarios have been
through the Fed’s stress test and capital planning process
before, as have Ally Financial Inc., American Express Co.,  BB&T
Corp. (BBT) , Capital One Financial Corp.,  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB) ,
 KeyCorp (KEY) , PNC Financial Services Group, Inc., Regions Financial
Corp, SunTrust Banks, Inc., and U.S. Bancorp.  Twelve banks will be participating in the process for the
first time. Those banks are BMO Financial Corp., BBVA Compass
Bancshares, Inc., Comerica Inc., Discover Financial Services,
HSBC North America Holdings Inc., Huntington Bancshares Inc.,
M&T Bank Corp., Northern Trust Corp., RBS Citizens Financial
Group, Inc., Santander Holdings USA, Inc., UnionBanCal Corp.,
and Zions Bancorp.  The Fed’s annual reviews have involved the largest
downloads of bank portfolio information in history and now form
a central part of the central bank’s oversight.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  