-- Fracking Limit Weighed as Colorado Drillers Back Ad Blitz
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2013-11-01T19:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/fracking-limits-weighed-in-colorado-as-drillers-finance-ad-blitz.html
With three days before the election,
an energy trade group has donated about 32 times more than
activists in four  Colorado  communities in a push to persuade
residents to vote against limiting oil and gas drilling.  In  Broomfield , Sarah Egolf received a flier depicting a man
in a business suit standing on one side of a level perched atop
a pyramid with a ball on the opposite end.  “It was supposed to demonstrate balance,” said the 33-year-old environmental fundraiser. “There’s nothing balanced
about putting an oil and gas well next to a school and there’s
nothing unbalanced about taking five years to study the health
impacts.”  Broomfield residents are considering a five-year  moratorium 
on hydraulic fracturing, in which a mixture of sand, water and
chemicals is injected underground to break apart shale
formations so oil and gas can flow to the surface. The practice,
known as fracking, is fueling the nation’s energy boom and
landed this oil-patch state in the center of a debate over its
impact on public health and the environment.  Political issue committees opposing the measures in the
four towns made about $606,000 in monetary contributions through
mid-October, with about 99 percent from the Denver-based
 Colorado Oil and Gas Association . That compares with about
$18,470 donated by proponents and groups supporting the limits,
campaign finance reports show.  Anadarko Petroleum (APC)   Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and other companies drilling in
the state’s largest oil and gas field said the donations came on
top of efforts by energy firms to talk with residents about how
fracking works.  “There is a need for factual science-based information to
be in the communities,” said  John Christiansen , a spokesman for
the company based in The Woodlands,  Texas . “There also needs to
be an understanding of the regulations that are already in
place.”  Governor John Hickenlooper, a Democrat with a master’s
degree in geology, who’s up for re-election next year, opposes
the initiatives.  “If you ban fracking you are essentially banning
exploration and extraction of hydrocarbons,” Hickenlooper said
in an interview. “We have a regrettable system called the split
estate where people who own the mineral rights don’t own the
surface rights. Our state constitution guarantees people who own
the mineral rights that there can be extraction from the surface
to get those minerals.”  Gaining Control  The attempt by communities at the base of the  Rocky
Mountains  to gain local control over drilling is being monitored
by neighboring states where fracking is prevalent.  “ Wyoming ,  Montana  and  New Mexico  are watching this
closely,” said Tim Wigley, president of the  Western Energy
Alliance , a Denver-based trade group. “Typically resource
measures, if they are successful in one state, they move to
other states.”  The election comes as oil and gas companies are waging a
public-relations campaign to assure Coloradans they are cleaning
up 48,177 gallons of oil and condensate  spilled  after record
flooding in the state in September. Images of overturned tanks
leaking black fluid into brown floodwaters, taken by local
activists, appeared in publications around the world.  Energy industry representatives said national environmental
groups are backing the anti-fracking initiatives as part of a
long-term effort to ban the practice altogether. They said the
industry committed more than $600,000 to defeat the measures
because they have to reverse misunderstandings about such
drilling.  ‘Safely Conducted’  “Hydraulic fracturing has been safely conducted in
Colorado for more than 60 years,” said Doug Flanders, director
of policy and external affairs for the Colorado Oil and Gas
Association. “On behalf of the 100,000 Colorado families who
have an enormous stake in the outcome of these ballot
initiatives, we are financially supporting the local groups who
oppose the bans.”  In addition to Broomfield, measures to limit fracking are
being proposed in  Fort Collins  and Boulder, the state’s fourth
and eleventh largest cities, respectively, and in  Lafayette ,
which is adjacent to Weld County, home to the Wattenberg Field -
- one the nation’s largest oil and gas fields.  Five-Year Moratorium  The proposals in Broomfield, Fort Collins and  Boulder  would
place a five-year moratorium on the practice, while Lafayette’s
would ban it altogether. About 141 active wells are located in
the four areas, a fraction of the 51,398 statewide, statistics
show. Dozens of wells are proposed, including 29 permitted in
Broomfield.  The measures come a year after residents in  Longmont , about
39 miles (63 kilometers) north of Denver, passed a charter
amendment banning drilling, with 60 percent of the vote. The
Colorado Oil and Gas Association sued and the state joined the
lawsuit, which has yet to be set for trial.  The Colorado initiatives are part of a growing movement
nationwide to curtail hydraulic fracturing, which pushed oil
production in Colorado in 2012 to its highest level in 55 years.
Communities and organizations from  California  to  New York  passed
383  measures  against fracking, according to Washington-based
 Food & Water Watch .  Residents say measures limiting fracking are necessary
because the state agency charged with regulating the industry,
the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, isn’t doing
its job effectively.  ‘Political Arm’  “Major elements of our state government are what we see as
a political arm of the oil and gas industry,” said Cliff
Willmeng, who helped get the Lafayette measure on the ballot.  “There is very little community input into this issue,”
added the 43-year-old trauma nurse, “which is why these
communities are taking it on themselves to protect their own
public safety.”  Hickenlooper disputed that the regulatory commission is too
close to the  energy industry .  “If you look at the representation on the COGCC, it’s
pretty diverse,” he said. “It’s certainly by no means a rubber
stamp for anybody. If you talk to people in the oil and gas
industry, they think it’s stacked against them.”  The proposed fracking limits are dividing communities where
oil and gas industry employees live across the street from anti-fracking activists.  Walking Precincts  Mary Anderson spent hours walking precincts in northern
Fort Collins gathering signatures for the proposed moratorium,
coordinating volunteers for the campaign and hanging tags on
doors reminding people to vote on Nov. 5. Most Colorado voters
received their ballots in mid-October for the largely mail-in
election.  “In my own neighborhood I could tell people were somehow
associated with the oil and gas industry -- either they or their
family members work there,” said the 64-year-old retired grant
manager. “There is a lot of fracking being done close by.”  Anderson lives less than half a mile from undeveloped land
where several drilling sites are proposed. She’s concerned
horizontal fracturing, in which a well is sunk and then angled
horizontally through a formation, could allow activity to take
place under her home.  The Fort Collins City Council last month approved a
resolution, 4-3, opposing the moratorium, said  Bob Overbeck , a
councilman who represents neighborhoods around the undeveloped
parcel and is in favor of fracking limits.  Scientific Consensus  “In the absence of scientific consensus that fracking is
safe, I don’t think at this time it would be wise to make a
decision as to whether or how to allow fracking in densely
populated urban areas,” he said. “It’s reported that living
near an active well increases ones risk of asthma, endocrine
disorders, cancers and other health-related issues.”  The moratoriums are necessary to give time to scientists at
the  University of Colorado  at Boulder to complete a series of
 studies  analyzing fracking’s impacts on public health and the
environment, the measures’ backers say.  Drilling agreements between lawmakers and energy companies
in Fort Collins and Broomfield already contain requirements that
go beyond state and federal fracking rules, making a moratorium
unnecessary, said B.J. Nikkel, a retired state legislator
advising opponents of the initiatives.  Environmental Groups  The groups pushing the measures are being supported largely
by national environmental organizations that are trying to
minimize and conceal their contributions, while the energy
industry has been transparent about its donations, she said.  “The story that’s been out there is that this has been
David versus Goliath and that’s not true,” Nikkel said. “I
would venture to guess, having been involved in a lot of
campaigns myself over the years, that they’ve spent at least as
much as the Colorado Oil and Gas Association.”  Nikkel pointed to a calendar on the website of  Frack Free
Colorado , a state organization that partners with national
groups, showing 34,000 copies of campaign materials were
distributed in Boulder on Oct. 7.  The effort, conducted by Plan-Boulder County, a citizens
organization, was “100-percent-volunteer done,” said Russell
Mendell, a spokesman for Frack Free Colorado. Rumors that
national groups are backing the local initiatives with
unreported contributions aren’t true, he said.  “We’re being hugely outspent here,” Mendell said. “We’ve
been running a very low-budget campaign. They’re putting out TV
commercials and we’re producing grassroots videos.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in New York at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  