-- Funds Lobby Says Treasury Study on Manager Risks Flawed
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-11-01T21:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/funds-lobby-says-treasury-study-on-manager-risks-flawed.html
A Treasury Department  study  that
found money managers could pose threats to the U.S. financial
system is flawed and should be scrapped, the mutual-fund
industry’s trade group said.  “This report simply doesn’t serve as a predicate for
action” by officials charged with studying asset managers and
other nonbank financial businesses under the 2010 Dodd-Frank
Act, Paul Schott Stevens, president of the Washington-based
 Investment Company Institute , said today in a telephone
interview.  The ICI plans to file a comment letter today with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission saying the study, intended to
help regulators decide whether the industry should be subject to
oversight by the  Federal Reserve , is based on the false premise
that asset-management activities pose systemic threats and backs
the assertion with weak and inaccurate data, Stevens said.  Money managers could endanger the financial system when
reaching for higher returns, herding into popular asset classes
or amplifying price movements with leverage, the Treasury
Department’s Office of Financial Research said in the Sept. 30
report. The study was conducted by the OFR to help the Financial
Stability Oversight Council analyze whether asset managers
should be considered systemically important and therefore
subject to Fed supervision.  “The reports seems to start with the premise that, of
course, asset management poses risks to the financial system at
large, and then proceeds to hypothesize a whole bunch of
circumstances to support that conclusion,” Stevens said.  Oversight Council  Suzanne Elio, a Treasury spokeswoman, had no immediate
comment on the study or the ICI letter.  The oversight council is authorized under Dodd-Frank to
identify companies that could threaten stability. The Fed can
impose on those firms tighter capital, leverage and liquidity
rules and demand measures including stress testing for crisis
scenarios and plans for winding down. The council, or FSOC, is
led by Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew and includes Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke .  Companies overseeing a combined $53 trillion in assets, led
by fund giants  BlackRock (BLK)  Inc. and Vanguard Group Inc., can
contribute to asset-price increases and magnify volatility
during sudden shocks, according to the Treasury’s report.  ‘In Reverse’  Some large firms are concerned that they may face new rules
that would hurt their competitiveness, according to three
industry executives who asked not to be named because they
weren’t authorized to speak publicly. Managers want the SEC to
address any systemic threats with regulation focused on certain
activities, rather than impose company-specific restrictions or
obligations, the executives said.  BlackRock, the world biggest money manager, said in its own
 comment letter  today that the SEC shouldn’t penalize large firms
simply for their size.  “Size does matter, but we actually think they have it in
reverse,” Barbara Novick, the firm’s vice chairman, said today
in a telephone interview. “A larger firm tends to be more
diversified, tends to be stronger financially because of that.”  Stevens also said the FSOC has been reviewing nonbank
financial companies without enough participation from those
companies or sufficient transparency. He cited a closed FSOC
session yesterday at which the council held what Treasury’s Elio
described as “an initial discussion on asset management.”  “No one knows what was discussed,” Stevens said. “These
regulatory policy judgments are of vast importance and shouldn’t
be made in a black box.”  ‘More Methodical’  The Treasury should commission “a more methodical study of
asset management and do so in conjunction with the SEC,” he
said.  FSOC has designated three nonbanks as systemically
important financial institutions, or SIFIs:  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , General Electric Co.’s finance unit
and Prudential Financial Inc. Prudential, the second-largest
U.S. life insurer, lost an appeal of that decision and opted
last month against filing a lawsuit to contest the ruling.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, has said it’s
in the last stage of review by FSOC and isn’t ruling out
contesting a SIFI designation. The company has said bank-like
regulations would raise prices for customers and may miss risks
related to insurance liabilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  