-- Gold Demand at Indian Festival Seen Dropping on Import Curb
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-11-01T14:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/gold-demand-in-indian-festival-season-seen-lower-on-import-curbs.html
Gold purchases in  India , the biggest
consumer, will probably fall in this year’s festival season as
import curbs reduce supplies and demand cools after surging in
April, when prices slumped into a bear market.  Sales of coins and bars may decline to as little as 25
percent of the year-earlier level, according to the All India
Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation. Buying and gifting gold in
the country is considered auspicious and the most favorable time
is today, the festival of Dhanteras, two days before Diwali.  Gold is heading for its first annual decline in 13 years as
some investors lost faith in bullion as a store of value and the
U.S. Federal Reserve indicated it will reduce monetary stimulus.
The precious metal rose 70 percent from December 2008 to June
2011 as the Fed pumped more than $2 trillion into the financial
system to boost the economy. Consumption in India, which imports
almost all the bullion it uses, accounted for 20 percent of
global demand in 2012, the World Gold Council says.  “Jewelers say demand for coins and bars this season could
be only 25 percent of what they saw in the festival season last
year and jewelry demand will be moderate,” said Haresh Soni,
chairman of the federation, which represents about 300,000
jewelers, bullion dealers and brokers. “Jewelers are quite
alert that if they sell coins, they will not get raw material to
make jewelry,” he said Oct. 30.  Import Curbs  Buying from October to December was 261.9 metric tons last
year, with coins and bars making up about 40 percent of the
total, according to the council. Imports slumped after the
government linked shipments to re-exports in July and increased
taxes on overseas purchases. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh
tightened the curbs after rising demand helped to widen the
nation’s current-account deficit and pushed down the rupee.  Shops in Zaveri Bazaar, India’s biggest bullion market in
Mumbai, saw fewer customers this year and people were buying
only smaller pieces, jewelers said.  “We have seen a drop of nearly 50 percent in purchases,”
said  Prithviraj Kothari , managing director of Riddisiddhi
Bullions Ltd. “People haven’t come to buy as much as last year
because of the perception that prices could have come down more.
Since people have to buy because it is an auspicious day, they
are buying silver, but that also saw a drop in demand.”  10 Grams  Dwarkhadas Ramanlal, 50, a regular buyer of silver every
year on this date, said he will purchase 10 grams (0.4 ounce) of
the metal, compared with 50 grams last year.  “I am buying only because it is considered to be
auspicious,” Ramanlal said while standing in line with 50
others in the market. “Usually it takes me more than an hour
and half to reach the front of the shop, but today I think I’ll
be through in 30 minutes. The crowd is not much today.”  “Demand is a little bit less this year, as the wedding
season was much longer last year,” said Mehul Choksi, chairman
of  Gitanjali Gems Ltd. (GITG) , from Mumbai. “A lot of purchases were
advanced earlier because of the price fall in April.”  Gold for immediate delivery in London slumped 22 percent
this year to $1,306.74 an ounce and reached $1,180.50 on June
28. Futures on the  Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. (MCX)  were
little changed at 29,825 rupees ($482) per 10 grams, 15 percent
below the record 35,074 rupees on Aug. 28.  Imports were 23.5 tons in October, Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram told reporters in New Delhi today.
Purchases of gold and silver fell to $800 million in September
from $4.6 billion a year earlier, according to the Commerce
Ministry. The government plans to keep imports to 800 tons in
the financial year ending March 31 from 845 tons a year earlier,
Economic Affairs Secretary Arvind Mayaram said Oct. 1.  Lower supply boosted premiums to a record in India, the
federation’s Soni said. The fees that jewelers pay to buy gold
from banks and bullion dealers were $120 an ounce higher than
the  London  cash price now, compared with a discount of $60 in
September, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  