-- Groupon Unveils New Features Seeking Turnaround
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-11-01T20:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/groupon-unveils-new-features-seeking-turnaround.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  unveiled a redesigned
website and new mobile applications, seeking to attract more
customers and turn around the online-deals provider.  Eric Lefkofsky, a co-founder who took over as chief
executive officer in August, has been rolling out new features
and refocusing the Groupon daily coupon company to a service
offering thousands of discount promotions at once, available any
time via the Web or smartphones.  Scott Devitt , an analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a
report today that there are signs of a turnaround, including
deals growth in North America and improvement in billings in
Europe, Middle East and  Africa . Groupon is due to report
quarterly earnings Nov. 7 and is projected to post a loss of
$14.3 million on revenue of $616.1 million, according to the
average of analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “A buying opportunity,” Devitt, who is predicting revenue
of $619 million, wrote. “Long term, Groupon shares offer one of
the most asymmetric risk-rewards in our sector.”  Groupon’s shares climbed 8.7 percent to $9.93 at the close
in New York, and have more than doubled this year.  Lefkofsky, who jostled with co-founder Andrew Mason and
helped to oust him from the CEO role in February, has made it
easier for customers to browse and search through Groupon’s tens
of thousands of offers.  The website now offers a personalized homepage with curated
collections of deals based on each customer’s interests and
prior purchases. Its updated mobile software detects when a
consumer’s location changes to provide local deals.  Web Deals  “We’ve been on a mission to transform Groupon into this
larger marketplace,” Dan Roarty, vice president of product
development at Groupon, said in an interview. “This website
update is a major step to doing that. Before, it was a lot of
work for customers to find specific things. Now we’ve put search
front and center.”  Jeffrey Houston, an analyst at Barrington Research
Associates Inc., said Lefkofsky is “re-engaged” with Groupon.  “Since he took over, there’s been a handful of changes in
the business model and management. The stuff that I’ve seen has
been pretty smart,” Houston said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  