-- Miami Embraces Detroit as Fusion Leaps With Coastal Surge
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-11-01T22:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/miami-embraces-detroit-as-fusion-leaps-with-coastal-surge.html
In style-savvy Miami,  Detroit  cars
used to be a hard sell. Not anymore, says Ford dealer Victor
Benitez, who is having a hard time keeping up with demand for
the Fusion sedan.  “We are in a very hip market where people want to be
driving the latest and the best,” said Benitez, who has seen
sales more than double at his two Miami-area Ford stores this
year. “The Fusion not only performs well, but it looks good.
We’re trading people from Toyotas and Hondas.”  Fusion --  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s hottest car since Taurus was
America’s top seller two decades ago -- is going coastal.
Already a hit in the heartland, Fusion now attracts buyers in
places that previously panned Detroit iron. Fusion sales more
than doubled in  New York  and  San Francisco  last month, while
rising 62 percent in Miami and 77 percent in  Los Angeles . Chic
car shoppers compare it to  Aston Martin ,  James Bond ’s car.  “We’re seeing some of our fastest retail sales growth for
Fusion on the coasts,” John Felice, U.S. sales chief for
Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford, told analysts and reporters on a
conference call yesterday. “Dealers on the coasts have been
very pleased.”  Nationwide, Fusion’s 71 percent sales surge last month
helped drive up Ford’s total sales 14 percent. The second-largest U.S. automaker sold more Fusions in the first 10 months
of the year than it did in all of 2012.  Camry sales fell 2.6 percent last month, despite  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  offering free financing and other discounts on its
flagship sedan. For the year, Toyota has sold 348,134 Camrys, up
1 percent, while Ford has sold 248,033 Fusions, up 20 percent.  Reclaiming Space  Ford’s hot-selling family car has become the standard-bearer for domestic automakers accelerating from reckoning to
revival by creating their best cars in a generation.  General
Motors Co. (GM) ’s sales rose 16 percent last month, while Chrysler
Group LLC jumped 11 percent. Industrywide, auto sales rose 11
percent to an annual selling rate of 15.2 million.  “The Fusion could be seen as Detroit reclaiming its space
in the mid-size car segment,” said  Jeff Schuster , an analyst
with researcher LMC Automotive in Troy, Michigan. “It shows
that Detroit can be competitive in a highly competitive segment
dominated by Japanese brands.”  In late August, Ford started building Fusion at a second
factory, in Flat Rock, Michigan, putting more pressure on Camry,
the top-selling car in the U.S. for the last 11 years. Ford now
can build more than 400,000 Fusions a year, putting it closer to
Toyota’s U.S. production capacity of 460,000 Camrys, according
LMC Automotive.  Extra Capacity  “Ford now has additional capacity to expand on the coasts
and elsewhere,” Schuster said. “They’ve got everyone looking
closely in their rearview mirror at the Fusion, which is really
gaining ground.”  The extra Fusion production is a “big plus,” that puts
Ford in position for further gains in November and December,
Ford’s Felice said.  Ford could also benefit from  Consumer Reports ’ decision
last month to remove its long-standing recommendation of the
Camry because it didn’t fare well in new crash tests by the
Insurance Institute for Highway Safety.  Total deliveries for Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota
climbed 8.8 percent, missing the 13 percent average estimate of
six analysts in a survey by  Bloomberg News . Camry leads  Honda
Motor Co. (7267) ’s Accord by 40,870 and Nissan Motor Co.’s Altima by
76,831 this year through October.  Honda’s Accord is cutting into Camry’s sales in  California 
more so than Fusion, Bill Fay, group vice president of Toyota
brand sales, said yesterday on a conference call.  Camry, Accord  “Accord is our primary competitor out here,” he said.
“We get more cross-shopped with Accord than we do with
Fusion.”  Deliveries rose 7.1 percent for Honda and 14 percent for
Nissan last month. The automakers trailed the average estimates
of six analysts for gains of 12 percent by Tokyo-based Honda and
17 percent by Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan.  In keeping with Fusion’s luxury looks, Ford said buyers are
loading the car with options such as voice-activated controls
and dashboard touchscreens. That drove Fusion’s average selling
price up 4 percent to $27,444 last month, according to auto
researcher Kelley Blue Book. Camry’s average price fell 1.3
percent to $24,193, according to the  Irvine , California-based
auto researcher.  “When we take someone coming from a Toyota or a Honda, we
show them the Microsoft Sync technology,” Miami Ford dealer
Benitez said of the Fusion’s voice-activated and touchscreen
systems. “We refer to it as a smart car, the same way you have
a smartphone.”  This year, Fusion probably will claim 12 percent of the
mid-size car market, up from 10 percent last year, according to
LMC’s estimates. The Camry may fall to 16.7 percent of the
segment, from 16.9 percent last year, Schuster said.  “The Fusion is not a new model anymore,” Schuster said.
“And yet it still is making new inroads.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  