-- Iceland-U.K. Subsea Power Cable Sees ‘Strong’ Investor Interest
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-11-01T16:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/iceland-u-k-subsea-power-cable-sees-strong-investor-interest.html
A plan for an undersea power cable to
connect the British and Icelandic grids is attracting “strong”
investor interest,  Charles Hendry , a U.K. lawmaker and former
energy minister who promoted the project, said today in London.  “There’s no doubt in my mind that in Britain the political
will is there, so if there is a political will in  Iceland , we
want to work together,” he told an Iceland energy conference.  The project offers low-risk, predictable returns attractive
to institutional investors including pension funds and the U.K.
is preparing to change policies needed for the cable, he said.  Hendry helped spur an agreement between Iceland and the
U.K. in May 2012 to explore the proposals. The link may cost as
much as 4 billion pounds ($6.4 billion) and be completed by 2022
if approved. It would extend as far as 1,000 kilometers (620
miles), longer than any subsea cable now in operation.  Cables already connect the grids of  Norway  and Britain to
the Netherlands. TenneT Holding BV, the Dutch grid operator,
 plans  links between Germany and Norway and the Netherlands and
 Denmark . There’s also a connection between Britain and  France .  “These assets are attractive to financiers, which suggests
that the  capital costs  to build the new cable should be financed
by the private sector,” Andrew Perkins, a partner in energy and
environmental finance at Ernst & Young LLP, said by e-mail.  Almost all of Iceland’s power comes from renewable sources,
with three-quarters from hydropower and the rest from
geothermal,  according  to the country’s National Energy Authority  “There are many examples in Iceland that highlight the
very important message that a clean energy economy isn’t just
about energy,” Iceland President Olafur Ragnar Grimsson told
the conference. Cheap power and heating helped industry to grow
and allowed Iceland to weather the financial crisis, he said.  Britain would be able to smooth out the highs and lows of
its wind and solar generation with Iceland’s steady geothermal
and hydro power as backup. The cable would give access to low-carbon electricity at “relatively low costs,” Perkins said.  “The best comparison is against nuclear energy, which has
shown that it needs subsidies over long periods in order to
justify the risks and costs involved,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in  London  at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  