-- Tiffany, Hasbro, MotionPoint: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-11-01T13:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/tiffany-hasbro-motionpoint-intellectual-property.html
An arbitrator ordered  Hasbro Inc. (HAS)  to
pay about $72.9 million in royalties to Atlanta-based Johnson
Research & Development Co., one of its licensors, over the
toymaker’s line of Nerf guns.  Johnson Research has a separate case pending in federal
court in Atlanta which seeks royalties from Hasbro’s line of the
popular Super Soakers, which were invented 25 years ago by
Johnson’s founder, Lonnie G. Johnson, an engineer.  The royalties claimed are somewhat unusual. They relate to
Hasbro products that are based on the appearance of products
that are manufactured using technology licensed from Johnson
Research.  Johnson initiated both the arbitration and the litigation
in February. The allegations in both the arbitration and
litigation are similar, Benjamin Easterlin IV, Johnson’s lawyer,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. He said that the case
in federal court is in the discovery phase.  Hasbro “strongly disagrees with the arbitrator’s ruling
and is considering all possible appeals and challenges to the
award,” according to a statement from the Pawtucket, Rhode
Island-based company.  In the statement, the toymaker said it “anticipates taking
an additional charge to its earnings for” the fiscal third
quarter, which ended Sept. 29. Its stock closed yesterday at
$51.65, a drop of one percent.  The arbitration award isn’t public yet.  The Super Soaker case is Johnson Research & Development Co.
v. Hasbro Inc., 1:13-cv-00451, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of  Georgia  (Atlanta).  Sequenom’s Patent for Prenatal Testing Invalidated by Judge  A prenatal test produced Ariosa Diagnostics Inc. doesn’t
infringe a patent licensed by  Sequenom Inc. (SQNM) , a federal court
ruled.  U.S. District Judge Susan Illston in San Francisco found
that Ariosa’s Harmony test, which uses cell-free fetal DNA in a
pregnant woman’s blood to determine fetal abnormalities, didn’t
infringe Sequenom’s patent 6,258,540. The patent, according to
the Oct. 30 opinion, relates to prenatal detection methods that
are “non-invasive” and can be used instead of tests such as
amniocentesis.  Illston, following Supreme Court decisions that prohibit
the patenting of “laws of nature and natural phenomena,” found
that Sequenom’s patent was invalid. The judge agreed with San
Jose, California-based Ariosa that the methods contained in the
patent were insufficient to find it valid.  In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission
yesterday, San Diego-based Sequenom said it disagrees with the
order and will appeal to the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals.  Sequenom yesterday dropped 23 percent to close at $1.92.  The case is Ariosa Diagnostics, Inc. v. Sequenom, Inc.,
11-06391, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California 
(San Francisco).  Victoria’s Secret, Delta Websites Caught in Translation Spat  MotionPoint Corp. , a maker of technology that translates
business websites into foreign languages for customers such as
Victoria’s Secret Stores LLC and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , is asking
a judge not to block its core product in a patent lawsuit
brought by a rival.  A federal jury in Oakland, California, found in July that
closely held MotionPoint, whose customers also include the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control, directly infringed a patent held by
 TransPerfect Global Inc.  and should pay $1 million in damages.
New York-based TransPerfect, whose customers include  Home Depot
Inc. (HD)  and American Airlines Inc., is seeking a permanent
injunction barring the sale or use of MotionPoint technology
that directly or indirectly infringes the patent.  The two companies have competed head-to-head for customers,
with closely held TransPerfect losing clients to MotionPoint and
at times lowering its prices as much as 20 percent to compete,
Michael Eisenberg, TransPerfect’s lawyer, said in a court
filing.  “TransPerfect would risk losing potential new customers
for its entire range of products and services, which is a
recognized harm found to support an injunction,’ Eisenberg said
in the filing.  ‘‘I would not enjoin your entire system,’’ U.S. District
Judge Claudia Wilken said at a hearing yesterday. ‘‘What I would
enjoin is the infringing portion. I think it is the kind of case
that would involve an injunction.’’  Wilken ordered both companies to file arguments about what
an injunction should include and enter mediation to try to
settle the dispute. She didn’t rule on whether to grant an
injunction.  If an injunction isn’t granted, TransPerfect may seek a
running royalty rate of more than 4 percent of sales of
infringing technologies.  ‘‘We are not seeking an injunction of what they are not
infringing,” Douglas Lumish, an attorney for TransPerfect, said
during the hearing. “We would be happy to negotiate it with
them.”  MotionPoint, based in Coconut Creek,  Florida , provides
translation services for more than 1,800 websites, its lawyers
said in a court filing. An injunction targeting its services on
customer websites would “deny hundreds of thousands, if not
millions, of foreign language speakers access to translated
versions of websites,” Matt Robson, MotionPoint’s attorney,
said in a court filing.  The case is TransPerfect Global Inc. v. MotionPoint Corp.,
10-cv-02950, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (Oakland).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Tiffany Wins Injunction, Damages Against Counterfeiters  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  won a trademark case filed earlier this year
against 78 companies that sold counterfeit Tiffany jewelry on
their websites.  U.S. District Judge Kenneth Marra in Miami awarded the
company $2.18 million in damages on Oct. 29 along with a
permanent injunction.  The 78 defendants sold counterfeit Tiffany goods via
websites which also infringed Tiffany’s trademarks, such as
salestiffany.net, shoptiffanyco.com, tiffanyandcomall.com and
bluejewelrybox.com. The judgment required that the website
operators’ domain names be transferred to Tiffany.  Michael Kowalski, chairman and chief executive officer of
Tiffany, said in a statement, “Trademark counterfeiting
severely damages brand owners and consumers alike. The way to
stop it is to take aggressive action against the counterfeiters
and make them pay, civilly.”  Tiffany operates jewelry stores and manufactures products
through its subsidiaries and doesn’t authorize the sale of its
merchandise through any third-party websites. Authentic Tiffany
merchandise can only be purchased online through
www.tiffany.com.  Tiffany was represented by Stephen Gaffigan, a Fort
Lauderdale, Florida, lawyer who specializes in counterfeiting
suits.  In February, Tiffany accused  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  in a
lawsuit of selling counterfeit Tiffany diamond engagement rings.
Costco isn’t authorized to sell Tiffany items, the New York-based jewelry retailer said in its complaint.  The case is Tiffany (NJ) LLC v 925jewelryonline.com, 13-cv-61311, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(West Palm Beach).  Nestles Sued for Trademark Infringement Over Pet Food Line  Nestle Purina PetCare Co., a unit of  Nestle SA (NESN) , was sued by
Nature’s Variety Inc., a closely held pet food company, for
trademark infringement.  The lawsuit, filed Oct. 30 in federal court in New York,
alleges that Nestle’s Purina One Smart Blend True Instinct Pet
food is packaged “bearing a mark that is confusingly similar”
to Nature’s Variety Instinct mark for its pet food products. The
complaint says that Instinct brand is Nature’s Variety best-selling brand, “formulated to approximate the ancestral diet of
dogs and cats, consisting primarily of proteins, and are grain-free and gluten-free.”  While the complaint doesn’t disclose revenues, it says that
80 percent of the company’s sales come from the brand, which is
sold at independent retailers as well as Petco Animal Supplies
Inc.  Keith Schopp, a spokesman for St. Louis-based Nestle, said
in an e-mail that the company is “aware of the lawsuit filed by
Nature’s Variety. We are confident it is without merit and will
vigorously defend ourselves.”  Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP represents St. Louis-based
Nature’s Variety.  The case is Nature’s Variety Inc. v. Nestle Purina Petcare
Co., 13-CV-07676, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York ( Manhattan ).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Marvin Gaye’s Children Countersue Over Hit ‘Blurred Lines’  Two of Marvin Gaye’s children, Nona Marvisa Gaye and
Franklin Christian Gaye, sued singer Robin Thicke, his co-producers Pharrell Williams and Clifford Harris Jr. and others
Oct. 30 over the summer’s blockbuster hit “Blurred Lines.”  The Gaye family claims that the song infringed their
father’s classic “Got to Give It Up” because of the
“substantial similarities.” They also allege that other Thicke
songs copied Gaye’s “After the Dance” and “I Want You,” and
they name music publishers as well as the recording artists.  The suit was filed as a counterclaim to the case Thicke and
others filed in August seeking a judgment that the song didn’t
infringe Gaye’s classic. Both cases are in federal court in Los
Angeles.  Howard King, who represents Thicke, Williams and Harris,
said the counterclaim wasn’t a surprise. He said in a telephone
interview yesterday that after the Gaye family initially
complained about the song, they attempted to reach a settlement,
“not out of a sense of responsibility, but because we didn’t
need the controversy. But we couldn’t make the Gaye children
happy.”  The complaint also accuses music publisher EMI of breach of
contract and fiduciary duty for allegedly failing to protect the
copyrights for the Gaye songs. EMI, now owned by Sony/ATV Music
Publishing, a division of  Sony Corp., (SNE)  publishes music produced
by Williams.  Sony-ATV, which has hired Donald Zakarin of Pryor Cashman
LLP for the litigation, said in a statement, “While we have not
yet seen the claims by the Gaye family against EMI, we have
repeatedly advised the Gaye family’s attorney that the two songs
in question have been evaluated by a leading musicologist who
concluded that ‘Blurred Lines’ does not infringe ‘Got To Give It
Up.’”  King said that his clients hired three separate
musicologists who also said that the song didn’t infringe.  King & Ballow and Wargo French LLP represent the Gaye
family.  The Gaye’s case is Gaye v Williams, 2:13-cv-06004, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).
The original declaratory judgment case is Williams v. Bridgeport
Music, Inc., 2:13-cv-06004, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California (Los Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  