-- Liffe Executive Departures Said Planned Following ICE’s Takeover
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-11-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/liffe-executive-departures-said-planned-following-ice-s-takeover.html
Two senior executives at NYSE Liffe,
Fraser Cowie and Ian Dudden, plan to leave the  derivatives
market  after IntercontinentalExchange Inc. finishes buying its
owner,  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , according to three people familiar with
the situation.  Cowie is the  executive director  for strategic alliances at
London-based NYSE Liffe, while Dudden is head of commodity
derivatives. More executives will probably leave once the
acquisition closes, according to the people, who asked to not be
identified because the negotiations are still in progress.  Past takeovers by ICE Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Sprecher , who already employs London-based derivatives
executives, have prompted makeovers at the acquired companies.
After buying the  New York  Board of Trade and International
Petroleum Exchange, Sprecher shut their trading floors and moved
them to all-electronic platforms.  Sprecher is creating one of the world’s largest exchange
operators by purchasing NYSE Euronext, adding Liffe’s financial
futures and the New York Stock Exchange to his Atlanta-based
company’s existing focus on energy derivatives.  Shares of ICE climbed 1.1 percent yesterday, extending
their 2013 gain to 56 percent and giving the company a $14
billion market value. NYSE Euronext, valued at $10.7 billion,
advanced 40 percent since Dec. 31 through yesterday. CME Group
Inc., the owner of the world’s largest futures market, is the
 biggest  exchange operator by market value at $24.8 billion.  Deal Delay  ICE (ICE)  postponed the closing date for the transaction this
week, saying the Nov. 4 goal won’t be met because some
regulatory approvals are pending. NYSE Euronext Chief Financial
Officer Michael Geltzeiler already publicly announced he will
join ADT Corp. once the deal is complete. The departure of NYSE
Liffe’s co-CEO, Mark Ibbotson, was revealed in August.  NYSE Liffe CEO Finbarr Hutcheson is negotiating to remain
with the company and turn his focus to reforming the London
InterBank Offered Rate, according to the three people familiar
with the matter. NYSE Euronext, whose Liffe exchange is the
biggest market for short-term interest-rate derivatives, vowed
in July to restore confidence in the London benchmark that’s at
the heart of the financial world’s biggest scandal.  Liffe said July 9 that it will replace the British Bankers’
Association in administering Libor following a rigging
investigation that has generated billions of dollars in fines.  Dudden, Cowie and Hutcheson declined to comment, as did
Adaora Anunoby, a spokeswoman for Liffe, and ICE’s  Claire
Miller .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  