-- U.S. Northeastern Travel May Be Disrupted by High Winds
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-11-01T17:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/high-winds-pose-potential-travel-problems-in-u-s-northeast.html
High winds, thunderstorms and rain
swept across the U.S. Northeast today, disrupting  air travel  in
cities including New York and toppling trees and power lines.  Delays at New York’s LaGuardia Airport were averaging 46
minutes as of 12:45 p.m. after peaking at more than three hours
earlier today, according to the  Federal Aviation
Administration ’s website. High winds held up flights for more
than an hour at John F. Kennedy International and at Newark
Liberty in New Jersey.  At least 239 flights in the U.S. were canceled as of 12:45
p.m., including 75 at LaGuardia and Philadelphia International,
56 at Newark and 16 at Boston’s Logan International, said
 FlightAware , a Houston-based airline tracking service. High
winds can delay commercial flights and spread backups throughout
the country when they strike major East Coast airports,
particularly in New York.  “Some downed trees and power lines are likely, resulting
in scattered power outages,” according to a wind advisory
issued for Long Island. “Winds this strong can make driving
difficult, especially for high-profile vehicles.”  There were 31 reports of winds knocking down trees and
power lines and damaging buildings in New York,  New Jersey ,
Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Massachusetts and Delaware, said the
national  Storm Prediction Center  in Norman, Oklahoma.  Low Pressure  The winds were created by a deep area of low pressure that
was moving across the  Great Lakes  into southern  Canada , Mike
Doll, a meteorologist at  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,
Pennsylvania, said by telephone.  “When you get low pressure this strong, you are going to
get a lot of wind,” he said.  A few thousand feet above the surface, there will also be a
corridor of winds as strong as 70 miles (113 kilometers) per
hour, which will mean turbulence for airplanes, Doll said.  Areas of moderate or greater turbulence stretch from
southern Canada along the U.S. East Coast to South Carolina,
according to the national  Aviation Weather Center  in  Kansas
City , Missouri. Light turbulence covers the entire eastern third
of the U.S. and Canada.  “The big airplanes and the big jets are going to feel
it,” Doll said. “If you are taking off in a little Cessna,
forget it.”  The winds will start to wane after dark, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  