-- Indian Drugmaker Intas Said to Consider Scrapping Plans for IPO
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-11-01T03:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/indian-drugmaker-intas-said-to-consider-scrapping-plans-for-ipo.html
Intas Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (INTAS) , an Indian
drugmaker part owned by ChrysCapital Management Co., is
considering scrapping plans for an initial public offering, said
three people with knowledge of the matter.  ChrysCapital, which manages about $2.5 billion, has
approached  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Temasek Holdings Pte
about selling a 10.2 percent stake should Intas pull its IPO,
said one of the people, who asked not to be identified as the
deliberations are private. The buyout firm is seeking about $150
million for the holding, the person said.  Intas, an Ahmedabad, western India-based developer of drugs
for  heart disease  and diabetes, in June said it was preparing an
IPO. ChrysCapital would sell 11.6 million shares as part of the
offering, according to the filing. The value of IPOs in  India 
fell to a decade-low this year as political gridlock fueled
 stock-market volatility .  Intas and ChrysCapital will make a final decision next
month whether to proceed with the sale, Chief Financial Officer
Jayesh Shah said in an interview. The company appointed Kotak
Mahindra Capital Co. and Morgan Stanley to manage the IPO,
according to the June filing.  Ashish Dhawan, a New Delhi-based senior managing director
at ChrysCapital, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking
comment. Spokesmen for Goldman Sachs and Temasek,  Singapore ’s
state investment firm, declined to comment.  ChrysCapital, based in Mauritius, owns 16.2 percent of
Intas. The private equity firm bought an initial stake in 2006
for 530 million rupees ($8.6 million), and last year invested
another 3 billion rupees in the drugmaker, according to
regulatory  filings . The second investment valued Intas at about
$900 million, based on exchange rates at the time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  