-- Indonesia Demands Australia Explain After Embassy Spying Claims
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-11-01T06:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/indonesia-demands-australia-explain-after-embassy-spying-claims.html
Indonesia  is demanding an explanation
from  Australia  after a newspaper reported that its neighbor was
using embassies in locations such as Jakarta to conduct
electronic spying on Asian governments.  Indonesian Foreign Minister Marty Natalegawa said nations
may have the technical capacity to intercept information. “But
the cost in terms of trust, in terms of the damage that may be
resulting, is something that we must all reflect on,” he told
reporters in Perth today, where he is attending a regional
meeting. “If Australia was itself subject to such an activity,
do you consider it as being a friendly act or not?”  Jakarta has summoned Australia’s ambassador Greg Moriarty,
Indonesia Foreign Ministry spokesman Michael Tene said by mobile
phone message today, without giving further details.  Australian embassies are secretly helping intercept phone
calls and data across  Asia  as part of a U.S.-led global spying
network, the Sydney Morning Herald reported yesterday, citing
information from American whistleblower Edward Snowden and a
former Australian intelligence officer. U.S. and German
officials have so far failed to resolve differences over spying
in a meeting prompted by allegations that American intelligence
bugged German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s mobile phone.  Raised Concerns  Australia is aware of Indonesia’s concerns, Foreign
Minister  Julie Bishop  said on the sidelines of the annual Indian
Ocean Rim Association for Regional Cooperation meeting in Perth.  Natalegawa “has raised with me his concerns about
allegations in the media recently and I take his concerns about
these allegations seriously,” Bishop told reporters today.
Australia doesn’t comment on intelligence matters, she said.  Two-way trade between the world’s largest Muslim nation and
Australia reached A$14.9 billion ($14.1 billion) in the year to
June 30, 2012, according to Australian government figures.
Australia’s major exports to Indonesia are wheat, metals
including aluminum, copper and iron, and crude. Trade Minister
Andrew Robb is working to complete a free-trade agreement with
Indonesia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  