-- Indonesian Workers Rally in Jakarta in Last Push for Wage Boost
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-11-01T07:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/indonesian-workers-rally-in-jakarta-in-last-push-for-wage-boost.html
More than 500 workers rallied outside
the Jakarta governor’s office today in a last push for higher
wages before a deadline for the Indonesian capital to set
minimum salaries for next year.  Jakarta Governor Joko Widodo may decide to raise the city’s
minimum wage to 2.44 million rupiah ($215) a month from 2.2
million rupiah this year, said Dita Indah Sari, an official at
the nation’s manpower ministry. That’s less than the 3.7 million
rupiah a month demanded by workers, said Aos Koswara, chairman
of the Karya Utama workers federation. Labor unions will
continue to press for an increase in Jakarta because the capital
is the “barometer” for wages nationwide, Koswara said.  “The decision will still be made today,” Indah Sari said
by phone today. “We don’t want to be held hostage by workers.”  Unions have stepped up industrial action in the past two
years to seek a greater share of the wealth generated by
 Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy. Companies are concerned that
higher wages will boost costs at a time when consumer purchasing
power is being eroded by accelerating inflation.  Indonesia ’s economy expanded 5.81 percent in the second
quarter, the first time since 2010 that the economy has failed
to grow by at least 6 percent.  Bank Indonesia  has raised its
benchmark  interest rate  by 1.5 percentage points since early
June to 7.25 percent to curb price pressures and a weakening
rupiah.  PT Astra International (ASII) , Indonesia’s largest automotive
retailer, said yesterday that higher labor costs were partly to
blame for a 6.3 percent drop in third-quarter net income.  Weaker Consumption  The rise in workers’ purchasing power from higher wages has
not matched increases in prices for transport, fuel and power,
said Henri Honoris, President Director of PT Modern
PutraIndonesia, the franchise holder of 7-Eleven in Indonesia.  “All of these have put a cap on  consumer spending ,”
Honoris said in an interview on Oct. 31. “We have to delay our
expansion. This year we will not open new shops as
aggressively.”  About two million workers went on strike yesterday to push
for higher wages, according to the Confederation of Indonesian
Workers Union. A plan to continue the walkout today was scrapped
as workers plot their next move after hearing reports that pay
increases in Jakarta will fall short of their demands, Koswara
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  