-- Lions Gate Hedges as ‘Ender’s Game’ Can’t Match ‘Twilight’
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-11-01T20:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/lions-gate-hedges-as-ender-s-game-fails-to-match-twilight-.html
Lions Gate  Entertainment Corp.
brought in investors and sold foreign rights to “Ender’s
Game,” buffering the independent film studio against potential
losses from the science-fiction film opening in theaters today.  It’s a good thing, considering the movie is unlikely to
match “The Hunger Games” or “Twilight” films, past hits from
the  Santa Monica , California-based studio. Muted social-media
chatter, looming competition and anti-gay marriage remarks by
the author that alienated some fans have led to forecasts
suggesting the picture won’t measure up to those predecessors.  “Ender’s Game” will be a minor financial setback for
Lions Gate, not the $200 million loss  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  recorded
with “John Carter” in 2012. The sale of foreign rights and use
of outside capital in “Ender’s Game” limit the risk for Lions
Gate, according to James Marsh, a Piper Jaffray Cos. analyst who
lowered his fiscal 2014 profit forecast by 2 cents $1.25 a share
because of diminished prospects for the film.  “It probably won’t lose money,” said  Matthew Harrigan , an
analyst at Wunderlich Securities Inc. who recommends buying the
stock. “It’s not the start of great new franchise either.”  “Ender’s Game,” based on the novel by Orson Scott Card,
will gross $28.5 million over the weekend and $67 million during
its full run in domestic theaters, according to researcher
BoxOffice.com. The film stars Asa Butterfield as child-warrior
Ender Wiggin, a war-games whiz who’s trained to battle aliens
attacking Earth. Harrison Ford co-stars as his commander.  Foreign Receipts  “The movie is enthralling and the effects are totally
great, though not great enough to keep your mind from wandering
toward dark thoughts about what kind of society could produce
this demented, militaristic poison,” wrote  Craig Seligman , a
critic for  Bloomberg News .  Early receipts in the U.K.,  Germany ,  Austria  and
 Switzerland , where the film opened last week, were $2.8 million,
according to Rentrak Corp. That’s a “surprisingly weak
number,” Harrigan said.  Lions Gate has carved out a lead role in making dark movies
for young adults. The shares have more than  quadrupled  over the
past two years on profit from the “Twilight” vampire films and
“The Hunger Games,” a post-apocalyptic teen combat movie. The
studio has three “Hunger Games” sequels lined up, including
the second installment this month.  The shares rose 0.8 percent to $34.86 at the close in  New
York  and have more than  doubled  this year. The company declined
to make a studio executive available for an interview.  Social-media chatter about “Ender’s Game” has been muted,
according to BoxOffice.com. The film’s 1,477 tweets three days
before its U.S. release were half those of “ John Carter ,” and
the 133,830 Facebook “likes” also trail that picture.  Competing Releases  “It’s not catching on the way a true event film would,”
said Phil Contrino, an analyst with BoxOffice.com.  “Ender’s Game” faces competition for young audiences in
coming weeks. Walt Disney Co.’s “Thor: The Dark World” is set
for wide release on Nov. 8, and “The Hunger Games: Catching
Fire” opens Nov. 22. Reviews for “Ender’s Game” are running
about 63 percent positive, according to Rottentomatoes.com,
which compiles critics remarks. That compares with 84 percent
for “The Hunger Games” last year.  Meanwhile, the author Card has stirred controversy with his
opposition to gay marriage, sparking calls for a boycott from
the website Geeksout.org.  Website Comments  On his  website , the author said some of his remarks have
been taken out of context, and cites a 2008 Mormon Times article
he wrote titled “Disagree but don’t be unkind.” He didn’t
respond to an e-mail request for comment.  Lions Gate responded to calls for a boycott by citing a
longtime policy of offering benefits to employees’ same-sex
partners and the distribution of critically praised, gay-themed
films including the Oscar-winning “Gods and Monsters.”  The studio spent about $110 million making “Ender’s
Game,” according to a person with knowledge of the matter.
Marketing costs total about $40 million, said the person, who
asked not to be named because he wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly.  OddLot Entertainment, a film company founded by Hyatt
Hotels Corp. heiress Gigi Pritzker, and Digital Domain, a
special effects firm, have invested in the production, according
to Lions Gate. The studio’s equity stake in the film is 25
percent, officials said on an Aug. 9 conference call.  A bigger worry for investors is where Lions Gate goes after
its current slate runs out.  After 2017  The “Twilight” films, now in home video, and the “Hunger
Games” releases will contribute 62 percent of earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization over the next
three years,  Doug Creutz , an analyst with Cowen & Co. in New
York, said in a report last month.  The studio faces a potential “earnings cliff” in fiscal
2017, after the last “Hunger Games” film completes its
theatrical run, according to Creutz. He downgraded the stock to
“market perform” from “outperform,” citing the appreciation
over the past two years.  “While it is certainly possible that the company could
come up with more mega-hit franchises, such success is difficult
to predict,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  