-- Hirst’s Kebab, Van Morrison, Fireworks: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-11-01T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/hirst-s-kebab-van-morrison-fireworks-london-weekend.html
Damien Hirst ’s kebab, Van Morrison,
Ibsen’s lies, and bonfire night are our choices for  London  this
weekend.  STAGE  The Alving family has more dirty secrets than most.  In Richard Eyre’s well-reviewed staging of Ibsen’s
 “Ghosts,”  the long-suffering Mrs. Alving (Lesley Manville)
opens an orphanage in her late husband’s name to make up for his
many excesses. As her son Oswald returns from a spell in  France ,
she gets ready to tell him that Dad wasn’t exactly the picture
of fidelity. Only Oswald has one or two dark secrets of his own.  The production ends Nov. 23 at the Almeida. Information:
 http://www.almeida.co.uk  or +44-20-7359-4404.  DINING  Aqua Shard has started serving afternoon tea in  Europe ’s
tallest building, 31 floors above ground. Views are stunning and
prices aren’t too bad either. It’s 29.50 pounds ($34.49) for
sandwiches, cakes and scones, or 40 pounds with a glass of  Veuve
Clicquot .  http://www.aquashard.co.uk/  or +44-20-7478 0540.  One Canada Square is a new restaurant in  Canary Wharf , open
all day Saturday except for a half-hour break at 5 p.m. The menu
is  modern European , with dishes such as scallop and shrimp
burger, kimchee, fries (17 pounds). There’s also a raw bar. It’s
the brainchild of the ETM Group, whose venues include the Gun
(Docklands), the Jugged Hare (Barbican) and the White Swan
(City).  http://www.onecanadasquarerestaurant.com/  or call
+44-20-7559-5199.  VISUAL ARTS  Two fried eggs and a kebab -- from the collection of Damien
Hirst -- are open to inspection at the Whitechapel Gallery.  Laid out on an old tabletop, they’re Sarah Lucas’s crude
depiction (originally conceived in 1992) of the female anatomy,
and part of a retrospective that features plenty more body
parts, represented with fruits and vegetables, tights, and neon
tubes. Ends Dec. 15:  http://www.whitechapelgallery  or call
+44-20-7522-7888.  MUSIC  Van Morrison brings the blues to the Royal Albert Hall
tonight. He’s joined by singer Mick Hucknall for a tribute to
Bobby Bland at the end of the  BluesFest , the annual Royal Albert
Hall event now extended to four days.  The evening also features Ronnie Wood of the  Rolling Stones 
playing Jimmy Reed’s music.  http://www.bluesfest.co.uk/events/ .  OTHER LONDON OUTINGS  The skies over London fire up this Saturday on the weekend
before the annual Guy Fawkes night on Nov. 5, marking the failed
1605 plot against the crown. Alexandra Palace is reviving its
bonfire night, and Primrose Hill offers a panorama of the
fireworks in town:  http://www.visitlondon.com/tag/bonfire-night .  Alternatively, two of the globe’s top new choreographers
are at Sadler’s Wells. This weekend is Israeli-born Hofesh
Shechter’s “Sun,” featuring a menagerie of cardboard animals.
Next weekend sees Belgian-Moroccan virtuoso Sidi Larbi Cherkaoui
compose a dance to Argentinian tango music in “Milonga”:
 http://www.sadlerswells.com  or +44-844-412-4300.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include the London and  New York   weekend
guides ,  Lewis Lapham  on history,  Richard Vines  on food,  Warwick
Thompson  on theater and  Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on movies.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 