-- Israeli-Palestinian Violence in Gaza as Tunnels Destroyed
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-11-01T10:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/israeli-palestinian-violence-in-gaza-as-tunnels-destroyed.html
Four Palestinian militants were
killed and five Israeli soldiers wounded in the worst violence
in the Gaza area since an eight-day conflict last year.  The Israeli soldiers were injured by the detonation of a
bomb this morning as they were seeking to destroy a 1.7
kilometer-long (1.1 mile) tunnel dug from Gaza, the army said in
an e-mailed statement. The troops then fired on Hamas militants,
hitting one of them, the statement said. Israeli aircraft also
struck another tunnel in the southern  Gaza Strip , it said. The
Izzadine al-Qassam Brigades, the military wing of Hamas,
confirmed the Palestinian deaths in two separate e-mailed
statements.  The violence is the most serious since Egypt brokered a
November 2012 cease-fire after more than a week of violence in
which 167 Palestinians and six Israelis were killed.  Israel  was
hit by more than 1,400 missiles during the fighting. Hamas,
which rules Gaza, is considered a terrorist organization by
Israel, the U.S. and European Union.  The attacks from Gaza coincide with reported Israeli air
strikes in Syria, confirmed by a U.S. official who asked not to
be identified discussing security matters. Israeli warplanes
struck a Syrian base near the Mediterranean port of Latakia,
targeting missiles that were earmarked for the Hezbollah
militant group, according to reports by CNN and Al-Arabiya
television.  Under a timetable set by U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry , there are six months remaining to reach an agreement on
renewed peace talks between the two sides. Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  warned last month that Israel is experiencing
a surge in Palestinian terrorism following what had been the
quietest year in more than a decade. Three Israelis have been
killed in the  West Bank  in the past two months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  