-- Japan Stocks Sink to Monthly Worst in Developed Markets
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-11-01T05:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/japan-stocks-sink-to-worst-in-developed-markets-as-rally-fades.html
Japan ’s  stocks  trailed every other
developed market last month, with the steepest rally in 40 years
petering out on concern a higher sales tax will curb growth
while U.S. stimulus bolsters the yen.  The Topix index rose less than 0.1 percent in October, the
smallest gain among 24 developed markets tracked by Bloomberg.
The gauge, which remains the best performer this year with a 39
percent surge, has fallen for four of the past six months. Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe said on Oct. 1 he will proceed with a plan
to raise the sales levy in April to 8 percent from 5 percent.
Strategists pared forecasts for yen declines as a weaker
economic outlook spurred speculation that the  Federal Reserve 
will delay reducing its monthly bond purchases.  “The biggest drag is that the Fed’s tapering has been put
off, eroding a bearish view on the yen,” said Kenichi Kubo, a
senior  fund manager  at Tokio Marine Asset Management Co., which
oversees about 5 trillion yen ($51 billion). “There’s also a
sense that an increase in the sales tax will weigh on growth.
And it seems we won’t get much out of Abe’s third arrow.”  Investors are waiting to see whether Abe can succeed with
growth-oriented initiatives to make Japan’s economic recovery
sustainable, in the so-called third arrow of his strategy
following fiscal stimulus and monetary easing. Exporters led by
Toyota Motor Corp. are reliant on a weaker yen to help them meet
the outsized profit gains expected by analysts.  Topix (TPX)  member
companies will boost  earnings  by 26 percent in the next 12
months, compared with the 11 percent growth estimated for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Third Arrow  Abe may have to put off plans for key deregulation of the
labor market in special economic zones, including lifting
restrictions on working hours for white-collar workers, the
Nikkei newspaper reported on Oct. 18.  The yen gained 5.2 percent against the greenback through
yesterday from a 4 1/2-year low reached May 22. The currency
will trade at 100 per dollar by year-end, from 98.36 yesterday,
according to the median of analyst forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg. At the end of September, strategists were predicting
a slump to 102 by Dec. 31.  The Topix dropped 1 percent as of 2:16 p.m. in  Tokyo  as the
yen climbed 0.4 percent to 97.95 per dollar.  The Fed will wait until March to taper its monthly bond
buying, a Bloomberg survey Oct. 17-18 showed.  Other Asian benchmark indexes trailed developed-market
peers in October.  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index rose 1.4
percent last month, the second-worst performer among the 24
markets.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index added 1.5 percent last
month, the third-worst performer. The index slumped 1.4 percent
on Oct. 23 as  China ’s money-market rates jumped.  Greece ’s ASE Index led gains with a 17 percent surge,
followed by  Italy ’s FTSE MIB Index, which climbed 11 percent.  Stimulus Package  The Topix capped four consecutive  quarterly gains  through
September, climbing 62 percent for the biggest rally since 1973.  The advance should resume toward the end of the year as Abe
announces details of a 5 trillion yen spending plan to cushion
the first  sales-tax  increase since 1997 while corporate earnings
continue to improve, said Masaaki Yamaguchi, equity market
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc.  “The stimulus package will offset a drop in spending
following the sales tax increase,” Yamaguchi said. “As the
government announces details about the package, investors will
buy its beneficiaries.”  Nomura expects the Topix to climb to 1,500 by the end of
December, the highest forecast among 18 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey last month.  Company Earnings  Yesterday was the  peak  of the earnings season with some 270
companies on the Topix reporting. Of the 147 companies on the
Topix that have posted quarterly results since Oct. 1 and for
which estimates were available, 83 exceeded expectations,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Canon Inc., the world’s largest camera maker, cut its
annual profit forecast and predicted its first drop in sales of
models with an interchangeable lens as consumers switch to
smartphones to take photos. Net income will probably total 240
billion yen for the year ending December, the Tokyo-based
company said Oct. 24, down from its earlier forecast of 260
billion yen.  Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corp., the world’s largest
steelmaker by market value, forecast full-year profit that
lagged analyst estimates. Net income may be 200 billion yen in
the 12 months ending March 31, the Tokyo-based company said Oct.
30. That’s below the average estimate of 232 billion yen from 18
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Relative Value  The Topix  traded  at 1.24 times book value yesterday,
compared with 2.55 for the  S&P 500 . The U.S. benchmark measure
capped a 4.5 percent advance last month, its second monthly
gain, and closed at a record high on Oct. 29.  Keeping U.S. stimulus for longer would have mixed outcomes
for Japanese equities by boosting demand for riskier assets
while also causing the dollar to fall against the yen, damping
the earnings outlook for exporters.  The Fed on Oct. 30 maintained the pace of its bond
purchases and said it’s seeking more evidence that the economy
will continue to improve. The Topix dropped 0.9 percent
yesterday as the yen advanced after the  Bank of Japan  maintained
unprecedented monetary easing.  Many companies won’t raise their forecasts substantially
unless they see another slump in the Japanese currency, said
Hitoshi Asaoka, a Tokyo-based senior strategist at Mizuho Trust
& Banking Co.  “Earnings are recovering at a very slow pace,” Asaoka
said. “I think the currency is the biggest reason Japanese
stocks are lagging U.S. counterparts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  