-- JPMorgan Says It’s Cooperating With Currency-Trading Probes
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-11-01T11:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/jpmorgan-says-it-s-cooperating-with-currency-trading-probes.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest
 U.S. bank , said it’s cooperating with various government
authorities investigating the firm’s foreign-exchange trading
business.  “These investigations are in the early stages and the firm
is cooperating with the relevant authorities,” the New York-based company said today in a quarterly filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  JPMorgan and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  put their top London currency
dealers on leave after regulators probing the manipulation of
foreign-exchange rates started investigating the traders’ use of
an instant-message group, three people with knowledge of the
moves said this week.  Regulators are focusing on an instant-message group the
traders set up to share information about their positions and
client orders over a period of at least three years, four people
with knowledge of the probe said last month. The roster of banks
in the group changed as the men moved firms and also included
Barclays Plc, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG, three
people with knowledge of the communications said.  Investigators are weighing whether the messages amounted to
attempts to manipulate the market, two people said. The five
firms account for about 47 percent of the $5.3 trillion-a-day
foreign-exchange market, according to a May survey by Euromoney
Institutional Investor Plc. Two other traders, who weren’t part
of the conversations and who asked to not be identified because
they do business with those involved, said that they and others
in the market referred to the message group as “The Cartel.”  JPMorgan Litigation  JPMorgan is seeking to resolve mounting litigation and
probes that last month led it to announce a $7.2 billion charge
and the first quarterly loss under Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 57. The New York-based bank already has tapped $8 billion
of $28 billion in reserves set aside since 2010 to cover legal
costs.  The firm has negotiated in past weeks with the U.S. Justice
Department over a proposed $13 billion settlement of state and
federal mortgage-bond probes, people familiar with the
discussions have said. Part of those talks were resolved Oct. 25
as the bank agreed to pay $5.1 billion to settle claims from the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency  that it mis-sold home loans and
mortgage-backed securities to  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  JPMorgan disclosed in August that the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission had sought information on hiring practices
in Asia. While the bank settled an energy regulator’s market-manipulation probe in July, the  Justice Department  has been
examining whether criminal laws were violated, a person briefed
on that case said in August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  