-- JPMorgan Discloses Eight DOJ Probes From Asia to Madoff
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-11-02T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/jpmorgan-discloses-eight-doj-probes-from-asia-to-madoff.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said that the
 U.S. Department of Justice  is conducting at least eight separate
investigations into the bank’s activities, ranging from
recruitment in Asia to its relationship with Ponzi scheme
operator  Bernard Madoff .  The largest U.S. bank disclosed for the first time in a 
filing yesterday that the Justice Department is examining its
energy-trading practices, which were subject to a $410 million
civil settlement with the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
in July. Investigations are also focusing on mortgage-bond
sales, interest-rate rigging, the credit-derivatives market, and
the bank’s trading loss last year, according to the filing.  U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder has said that it’s a
priority for his department and for President Barack Obama to
hold banks accountable. Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon
visited Holder in September to try to negotiate a settlement of
mortgage-related cases against the bank.  “The scope and breadth of risky practices at JPMorgan are
mind-boggling,” said  Mark Williams , a former Federal Reserve
bank examiner who teaches risk management at  Boston University .
“Some of these probes are criminal, they’re not even just civil
anymore, and I think it’s very telling about the broad risk-taking culture that was allowed under  Jamie Dimon .”  Currency Trading  The eight Justice Department investigations disclosed in
JPMorgan’s filing compare with one in Citigroup Inc.’s.
Citigroup has disclosed two other investigations that weren’t
included in the latest filing because there was no material
change.  Disclosures don’t always specify whether the Justice
Department is involved. For instance, both JPMorgan and
Citigroup said they’re cooperating with inquiries into the
 currency market  without saying who’s doing the investigating.
The Justice Department is taking a leading role in the global
probe into possible manipulation of the $5.3 trillion-a-day
foreign-exchange market, a department official said earlier this
week.  JPMorgan, whose $2.4 trillion in assets make it the biggest
U.S. bank, last month reported its first quarterly loss under
Dimon, 57, after taking a $7.2 billion after-tax charge to cover
the cost of mounting litigation and regulatory probes.  The bank has tapped $8 billion of $28 billion in reserves
set aside since 2010 to cover legal costs. JPMorgan said
yesterday it may need as much as $5.7 billion more to cover
“reasonably possible” losses in excess of the reserve, even
after it added $9.2 billion in pretax cash to its litigation
funds in the third quarter.  ‘Wrong Message’  JPMorgan’s purchase of Bear Stearns Cos. and some of
Washington Mutual Inc.’s assets during the financial crisis have
contributed to the bank’s legal costs. American International
Group Inc. CEO  Robert Benmosche  said the tough line taken
against JPMorgan fails to account for the role that borrowers,
regulators and government played in the crisis and may dissuade
companies from making similar purchases in the future.  “No good deed will go unpunished, and I think it’s the
wrong message to send, but the politicians want to punish
someone here,” Benmosche, 69, said in an interview with  Betty
Liu  on Bloomberg Television yesterday. “We’ve got to stop the
rhetoric about ‘We’ve got to get the bad guys,’ because I think
most of us were the bad guys.”  Mortgage Settlement  JPMorgan last week agreed to pay $5.1 billion to settle
claims from the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  that the bank
misrepresented the quality of mortgage bonds it sold to  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac . That resolved part of a $13 billion
settlement the company is seeking with state and federal
authorities to close multiple investigations into its mortgage-securities sales practices. The U.S. Attorney’s Office in
Sacramento, California, is leading a criminal probe of the
bank’s mortgage business.  Authorities in the U.S. and overseas are also looking at
the bank’s employment of people referred by clients, potential
clients and government officials as well as hiring “of certain
former employees in  Hong Kong , its business relationships with
certain related clients in the Asia Pacific region and its
engagement of consultants in the Asia Pacific region,”
according to JPMorgan’s filing yesterday.  The U.S. Attorney’s office in Manhattan, run by  Preet Bharara , is examining whether JPMorgan violated criminal anti-bribery laws in hiring the children and other relatives of well-connected politicians and clients in hopes of steering business
to the firm, a person with knowledge of the investigation said
in August. JPMorgan said it was cooperating with the
investigations.  Madoff Role  South Korea, Singapore and India are among the locations
where hiring practices are being scrutinized, the  New York  Times
reported yesterday, citing unidentified people briefed on the
matter. Investigators include authorities in the U.K., it said.  Bharara’s office is also is conducting an investigation
into how JPMorgan handled Madoff’s funds and whether it turned a
blind eye to his multibillion-dollar fraud, the biggest  Ponzi
scheme  in U.S. history. Bharara is weighing a deferred
prosecution agreement or fine for JPMorgan in the Madoff probe,
a person familiar with the matter said last week.  JPMorgan disclosed yesterday that Bharara’s office is
examining whether the bank manipulated the electricity market.
The  Federal Bureau  of Investigation is looking into JPMorgan’s
settlement with the FERC to see if any individuals committed any
crimes, a person briefed on the matter said in August.  The office is also conducting an investigation into
JPMorgan’s record trading loss last year by Bruno Iksil, who
became known as the London whale because of the size of his
trading bets.  Libor, CDS  Former JPMorgan trader Julien Grout and his former boss,
Javier Martin-Artajo, both of whom are in Europe and worked with
Iksil, were indicted on securities fraud charges after being
accused of trying to hide some of the more than $6.2 billion in
losses in their unit last year. Grout and Martin-Artajo have
denied wrongdoing, while Iksil is cooperating in the
investigation.  Additionally, JPMorgan is part of an industrywide
investigation by the  Justice Department  and others looking at
whether banks in the U.S. and abroad rigged benchmark  interest
rates  tied to the London interbank offered rate, or Libor. The
bank is cooperating with a probe of the credit-default swaps
market that started in 2009, the company said.  The bank said that it’s also facing a civil investigation
into its compliance with the  Federal Housing Administration ’s
direct endorsement program, which streamlines origination of
federally insured home loans by banks and other lenders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  