-- JPMorgan Says U.S., Foreign Authorities Probing Hiring
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-11-01T12:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/jpmorgan-says-u-s-foreign-authorities-probing-hiring.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
U.S. bank, disclosed that authorities in the U.S. and abroad are
investigating the lender’s hiring practices in Asia.  The bank has received subpoenas from the Securities and
Exchange Commission and document requests from both the SEC and
the U.S. Department of Justice, according to a company  filing 
today.  Authorities in the U.S. and abroad are looking at the
bank’s employment of people referred by clients, potential
clients and government officials as well as hiring “of certain
former employees in Hong Kong, its business relationships with
certain related clients in the Asia Pacific region and its
engagement of consultants in the Asia Pacific region,” the bank
said in its filing.  The Justice Department and SEC are examining whether
JPMorgan hired the children and other relatives of well-connected politicians and clients in hopes of steering business
to the firm, possibly violating anti-bribery laws, a person with
knowledge of the investigation said in August.  “The firm is cooperating with these investigations,” the
New York-based bank said in the filing today. “Separate
inquiries on these or similar topics have been made by other
authorities, including authorities in other jurisdictions, and
the firm is responding to those inquiries.”  Internal Spreadsheet  The company’s own internal review has uncovered red flags
across Asia, including an internal spreadsheet that linked
appointments to specific deals pursued by the bank, people with
knowledge of the matter said in August.  The firm had flagged more than 200 hires for review at that
time, the results of which JPMorgan shared with regulators, two
people with knowledge of the examination said in August.  The scrutiny began in Hong Kong and was expanded to
countries across Asia, looking at interns as well as full-time
workers, two people said in August. The employees include
influential politicians’ family members who worked in JPMorgan’s
investment bank, as well as relatives of asset-management
clients, the people said.  Wall Street firms have long enlisted people whose pedigree
and connections can win business, a practice that doesn’t
necessarily violate the law.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  