-- JPMorgan Joins Citigroup in Responding to Currency Probes
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-11-01T13:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/jpmorgan-joins-citigroup-in-responding-to-currency-probes.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , two of the three largest U.S. banks, said they’re
cooperating with various probes into the firms’ foreign-exchange
trading businesses.  “These investigations are in the early stages and the firm
is cooperating with the relevant authorities,” New York-based
JPMorgan said today in a quarterly filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Citigroup, also based in New
York, said in its 10-Q filing that it’s responding to requests
for information on probes by government agencies in the U.S. and
other jurisdictions.  Regulators in London, Zurich, the U.S. and  Asia  are probing
the foreign-exchange market after  Bloomberg News  reported in
June that dealers in the industry said they had been front-running client orders, attempting to rig the benchmark
WM/Reuters rates by colluding with counterparts and pushing
through trades before and during the 60-second windows when the
benchmarks are set.  Both JPMorgan and Citigroup put their top  London  currency
dealers on leave after regulators started investigating the
traders’ use of an instant-message group, three people with
knowledge of the moves said this week. Barclays Plc suspended
three foreign-exchange traders, including a chief dealer in
London, a person with knowledge of the decision said today.  Instant Messages  Regulators are focusing on an instant-message group the
traders set up to share information about their positions and
client orders over a period of at least three years, four people
with knowledge of the probe said last month. The roster of banks
in the group changed as the men changed firms and also included
Barclays, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG, three
people with knowledge of the communications said.  Investigators are weighing whether the messages amounted to
attempts to manipulate the market, two people said. The five
firms account for about 47 percent of the $5.3 trillion-a-day
foreign-exchange market, according to a May survey by Euromoney
Institutional Investor Plc. Two other traders, who weren’t part
of the conversations and who asked to not be identified because
they do business with those involved, said that they and others
in the market referred to the message group as “The Cartel.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  