-- Kapito Says BlackRock Survey Finds Many Clients in Cash
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-11-01T18:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/kapito-says-almost-half-in-blackrock-investor-survey-in-cash-1-.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  President  Robert Kapito  said investors are still largely in cash five years after
the financial crisis.  “Cash is something that, as you know, with inflation is
going to hurt you in the long term,” Kapito said in an
interview today with  Tom Keene , Sara Eisen and Scarlet Fu on
“ Bloomberg Surveillance .” “People are not getting it and
they’re not putting enough money away.”  A survey commissioned by BlackRock showed U.S. investors
held more than 60 percent of their savings in cash or cash-like
investments including money-market funds and certificates of
deposit. Respondents held just 18 percent in stocks. The survey,
conducted by London-based Cicero Group, polled 4,000 people in
the U.S., most of whom had an annual income below $45,000, from
Aug. 24 to Sept. 16.  Kapito and Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink, co-founders of New York-based BlackRock, have urged investors for
more than a year to get out of cash and into stocks. With U.S.
stocks trading near record highs, some investors are becoming
more cautious. Fink this week said he’s seeing “bubble-like
markets” again, and top fund managers from Wally Weitz to
 Donald Yacktman  and David Einhorn have said they’re holding more
cash.  ‘Bubble-Like Markets’  Fink on Oct. 29 said the Federal Reserve should begin
pulling back on its stimulus program of buying bonds because it
was contributing to “bubble-like markets.” Fink, who last year
said he would invest 100 percent of his personal wealth in
equities, signaled more caution after the recent debt debate in
 Washington  shut down the government for more than two weeks and
brought the country close to its legal borrowing limit.  Weitz, manager of the $1.1 Weitz Value Fund, held 29
percent of assets in cash and Treasury bills as of Sept 30.
Yacktman has pushed the level of cash in his $11.4 billion
Yacktman Focused Fund, to 21 percent as of Sept. 30 from 1.4
percent at the end of 2008.  Hedge-fund manager Einhorn signaled in a conference call
yesterday he was taking a more conservative approach. Long
positions, which gain on rising asset prices, exceeded short
bets by 35 percentage points as of Sept. 30 at  Greenlight
Capital Re Ltd. (GLRE) , the Cayman Islands-based reinsurer where
Einhorn oversees investments and serves as chairman. That’s down
from about 42 percentage points three months earlier.  Mutual-fund investors have this year heeded the advice to
buy equities. Stock funds in the U.S. attracted about $127
billion while bond funds lost about $34 billion to withdrawals
as of Oct. 23, according to data compiled by the Investment
Company Institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  