-- Kenya Plans Tougher Regulations for Reporters in New Law
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-11-01T12:56:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/kenya-plans-tougher-regulations-for-reporters-in-new-law-1-.html
Kenyan newspapers condemned a planned
media law approved by legislators because it may impose stiff
penalties on reporters and seeks to set-up a government-appointed regulator that violates the constitution.  The front-page  headline  on  Kenya ’s top-selling newspaper,
the  Daily Nation , read “Dark Days: MPs Pass Law to Control
Media,” while the rival Standard newspaper said “Democracy
Under Attack.”  “In one dramatic swoop, parliament has written away the
media’s rights,” the Nairobi-based Daily Nation said. “It is a
frightening place and it is valid to ask: What is there to
prevent parliament from similarly sweeping away the independence
of the judiciary tomorrow?”  The Kenya Information and Communication Bill backed by
parliament yesterday transfers authority of media regulation to
a tribunal set up by the state from the semi-independent Media
Council of Kenya, the newspaper said. The bill, which covers
newspapers, broadcasters, blogs and other types of websites,
needs President Uhuru Kenyatta’s approval to become law.  Kenya ranks 71 out of 179 nations on Reporters Without
Borders’  2013 Press Freedom Index , rising 13 steps from a year
earlier and ahead of other African nations including  Zambia ,
 Mozambique ,  Malawi ,  Uganda  and Burundi. In July, Kenyatta and
Deputy President  William Ruto  vowed to uphold press freedoms and
said the media has a crucial role in the democratic nation.  State Meddling  “The government should not be meddling in this space,”
Amadou Mahtar Ba, chief executive officer of Africa Media
Initiative, a United Nations-supported program to strengthen
media on the continent, said in a phone interview. “This bill
is hugely disappointing and unexpected to come from Kenya, which
should be leading on democracy in the region.”  The changes come as Kenyatta faces trial at the
 International Criminal Court  on charges of crimes against
humanity for organizing violence following a disputed election
in December 2007 that left more than 1,100 people dead. The
Hague-based court yesterday delayed the start date of his trial
to Feb. 5 from Nov. 12. Ruto’s trial on similar charges began
Sept. 10. Both men say they are innocent.  Manoah Esipisu, a spokesman in the Kenyan presidency,
declined to comment when called today.  Stiff Penalties  Under the act, media agencies face fines of as much as 20
million Kenyan shillings ($234,267) and individual journalists 1
million shillings for breaking the law and breaching a code of
conduct. The Communications and Multimedia Appeals Tribunal can
recommend suspension and deregistration of journalists.  “Since the tribunal can choose to slap the fines on media
that hold a different view from government, effectively all non-ruling party media can be shut down in a few weeks with these
outrageous fines,” the Daily Nation said.  Kenya’s Inspector-General of Police, David Kimaiyo, on Oct.
23 threatened to arrest journalists after reports that security
personnel looted shops during a deadly four-day attack by
Islamist militants on a shopping mall in Nairobi in September.  The Nation Media Group Ltd., which runs the Daily Nation,
is mostly owned by the Aga Khan Fund for  Economic Development , a
unit of the Aga Khan Development Network.  The stock gained 0.3 percent to 320 shillings by 3:04 p.m.
in Nairobi, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Standard
Group Ltd., the owner of the Standard newspaper, jumped 9.4
percent to 29 shillings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  