-- Kirin Said Interested in Buying Remaining San Miguel Stake
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-11-01T11:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/kirin-said-to-be-interested-in-buying-remaining-san-miguel-stake.html
Kirin Holdings Co. is interested in
buying the rest of  San Miguel  Brewery Inc. if approached, a
person with knowledge of the matter said, after the Philippine
beermaker revealed several bidders are vying for the shares.  Kirin, which holds about 48 percent of the brewer and is
Japan’s biggest drinks maker, isn’t in talks with co-owner San
Miguel Corp., said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the deliberations are private. The Japanese company
would consider a deal should San Miguel offer to sell its 51
percent stake to Kirin, the person said.  San Miguel Brewery, which sells nine of 10 beers in the
 Philippines , is attracting attention from suitors keen to boost
their presence in fast-growing  emerging markets . A valuation of
about 20 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization is now “normal” for deals in the industry,  San
Miguel (SMC)  President Ramon Ang said via text message today, implying
a $5.9 billion price for the stake, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg based on the brewer’s Ebitda last year.  Most of the world’s major brewers “would definitely be
interested,” said Mikihiko Yamato, deputy head of research at
JI Asia in Tokyo. “It’s possible that the price skyrockets. The
brewery is almost a monopoly in the Philippines.”  Kirin shares  fell  0.5 percent to 1,425 yen at the close of
trading in Tokyo, reversing gains from earlier in the day when
it had been up as much as 1.5 percent. Philippine markets were
closed today for a public holiday.  ‘Not Selling’  Ang said on Oct. 29 that “several parties” have
approached the company about buying its majority stake in the
Philippines’ biggest brewer.  “We’re not selling it,” Ang said earlier this week in
 Manila  of the 51 percent holding in San Miguel Brewery. “But of
course I’m not the only one who would decide.”  Heineken NV, SABMiller Plc, Anheuser-Busch InBev NV and
Carlsberg A/S would all be interested,  Trevor Stirling , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in  London , said on the phone.
The Carlsberg Foundation, which controls the world’s fourth-biggest beermaker, said last month it will drop the requirement
that it hold at least 25 percent of the share capital in
Carlsberg, giving the Danish brewer room to pursue takeovers.  “It’s highly unlikely Kirin would let anyone else buy into
the brewery,” Stirling said. Kirin failed in its efforts to
acquire the food and drinks business of Singapore-based Fraser &
Neave Ltd. earlier this year.  Sending a Message  Kan Yamamoto, a spokesman for Kirin, declined to comment.
The media-relations departments of Anheuser-Busch InBev NV and
SABMiller Plc couldn’t immediately be reached. Heineken didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment. Carlsberg spokesman
Ben Morton declined to comment.  By saying there is multiple interest in San Miguel Brewery,
Ang is sending a message to Kirin “that he wants Kirin to buy
his stake at a higher price,” JI  Asia ’s Yamato said.  The median price-to-Ebitda ratio in brewery acquisitions
above $1 billion announced in the past five years is 13,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Heineken paid S$5.6
billion ($4.5 billion), or about 17.3 times Ebitda, last year to
take control of Asia Pacific Breweries, the maker of Tiger beer,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. San Miguel Brewery had 2012
earnings of 24.9 billion pesos ($575 million) on that basis.  “Kirin would definitely be interested” in the additional
stake, Yamato said. “The near monopoly means that unlike in the
Japan market, it wouldn’t have to spend much on advertising.”  Beer Decline  Kirin is expanding abroad amid  Japan ’s weakening demand for
beer and similar drinks, which declined for an eighth straight
year in 2012. It bought a 48 percent stake in San Miguel Brewery
in 2009 for 131.6 billion yen ($1.3 billion).  San Miguel’s 10 brands include the namesake San Miguel Pale
Pilsen. The Philippine brewery posted a record 14.4 billion-peso
profit last year on 75.58 billion pesos of sales.  San Miguel is  selling  assets to bankroll a $35 billion
investment plan to expand in airlines, energy and
infrastructure. Ang said this week the company also received
offers for its food and packaging units, declining to identify
any suitors. Beverages accounted for 13 percent of the group’s
revenue last year, while food made up 14 percent, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  San Miguel has said it is selling its 27 percent stake in
Manila Electric Co., the nation’s largest power retailer, for 72
billion pesos to JG Summit Holdings Inc.  The company, which started when the Philippines was still a
colony of  Spain , has made more than $5.6 billion of acquisitions
since 2008. Its most recent purchase was 35 percent of Northern
Cement Corp. for 3 billion pesos.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in  Tokyo  at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  