-- Natural Gas Rises in Survey Heading Into Peak-Demand Season
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-11-01T11:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/natural-gas-rises-in-survey-heading-into-peak-demand-season.html
Natural gas futures may gain next
week on speculation that the advent of cold weather in the U.S.
will drive up demand for the heating fuel.  Seven of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, or 70 percent,
predicted that futures will rise on the New York Mercantile
Exchange through Nov. 1. Two, or 20 percent, said gas will stay
the same and one predicted prices will fall. Last week, 57
percent of participants said gas would advance.  Prices slumped 7.4 percent from a five-month high on Oct.
16 on forecasts for a mild start to November, the start of the
heating season that lasts through March. Eastern U.S. readings
will be above normal from Nov. 5 through Nov. 15 while a cold
air in the West may sweep through  Canada  into New England by the
middle of the month, according to MDA Weather Services in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  “We see the possibility that bargain-seeking investors
might decide that the winter strip looks oversold at these
levels,” said Teri Viswanath, director of commodities strategy
at BNP Paribas SA in New York. “Our bet is that prices move
slightly higher next week.”  Natural gas futures fell 12.6 cents, or 3.4 percent, to
$3.581 per million British thermal units during the first four
days of this week on the Nymex, heading for the fifth drop in
six weeks. The futures are up 6.9 percent this year.  The low temperature in  Boston  on Nov. 7 may be 52 degrees
Fahrenheit (11 Celsius), 12 above normal, before dropping to 29
days, 10 lower than average, five days later, according to
AccuWeather Inc. in State College,  Pennsylvania .  Gas Use  About 49 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating
while 39 percent use electricity, according to the Energy
Information Administration, the statistical arm of the Energy
Department.  Gas inventories  rose 38 billion cubic feet in the week
ended Oct. 25 to 3.779 trillion, below the five-year average
increase of 57 billion cubic feet for the period, the EIA said
yesterday. A  supply surplus  to the five-year average narrowed to
1.6 percent from 2.1 percent.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex gas futures will probably
rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This week’s
results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  7      1      2  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  