-- Netherlands to Sell $8.7 Billion ING U.S. Mortgage Bonds
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-11-01T17:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/netherlands-to-sell-8-7-billion-ing-u-s-mortgage-bonds.html
The Dutch government will sell 6.4
billion euros ($8.7 billion) of U.S. mortgage bonds that it
acquired during a 2009 bailout of  ING Groep NV (INGA) , the country’s
biggest financial-services company.  ING will pay about 400 million euros to the Netherlands
from a provision it took in 2009 to unwind the transaction, the
Amsterdam-based company said in an e-mailed statement today. The
government may make a gain of almost 800 million euros, though
there will be a one-time impact on this year’s budget deficit of
223 million euros, Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said.  The Dutch government is seeking to return money to
taxpayers after it provided more than 95 billion euros to rescue
companies including ING, ABN Amro Group NV and SNS Reaal NV. ING
received a 10 billion-euro capital injection in October 2008,
when mortgage-backed securities held at its U.S. units plunged
in value. In a second round of aid in January 2009, the
Netherlands assumed 80 percent of the risk on the 27.7 billion-euro portfolio of the Alt-A mortgage bonds.  ING  rose  1.5 percent to 9.53 euros in Amsterdam trading
today, the highest level in four years. The shares have advanced
35 percent so far this year.  ‘Government-Free’  The sale of the mortgage bonds, to be held within a year
and requiring European Union approval, will increase ING’s core
Tier 1 capital ratio, a key measure of financial strength, by
about 10 basis points, the company said.  “This is a clear step closer to being detached from state
aid,” Cor Kluis, an Utrecht, Netherlands-based analyst at
Rabobank International, said by e-mail. “If ING will now pay
back the remaining capital it will be fully government-free.”  ING could repay the state aid by mid-2014, ahead of a
schedule agreed with EU regulators last year, Kluis said. He
recommends that clients buy the shares.  The EU approved ING’s rescue on condition that the company
sell its global insurance operations and return the financial
aid with premium and interest. Other strings attached included a
ban on management bonuses for as long as aid is outstanding. The
company also said it won’t pay dividends to shareholders before
completing repayment.  The government hired  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  to manage the sale of
the bonds, which were backed by mortgages that typically didn’t
require documentation such as proof of income, Dijsselbloem said
in a letter to Parliament today. ING Groep is being advised by
its banking arm’s Financial Institutions Event Finance &
Advisory unit.  Competing Bids  To maximize proceeds, the Dutch will invite competing bids
throughout the sale process, which can be halted at any point,
Dijsselbloem said. Progress and results will be published on the
Dutch State Treasury Agency website, he said.  The finance industry in the Netherlands measures more than
four times the economy. In February, the government spent 3.7
billion euros to nationalize SNS Reaal, the fourth-biggest bank,
after losses on real estate brought it to the brink of collapse.  ING sold the mortgage-backed securities to the Dutch state
at a discount, while giving the government a loan, which shrank
as the mortgages underlying the debt were repaid.  The market value of the Alt-A securities held by the
Netherlands has risen to about 71 percent of their nominal value
of 9 billion euros, ING said today. The government’s debt to ING
stood at 6 billion euros at the end of September, meaning the
Netherlands can make a cash profit of about 400 million euros on
a sale at current market prices.  Impact Limited  Under the 2009 agreement, ING also pays the Netherlands an
annual guarantee fee, while it gets management and funding
income in return. The company took a one-time pretax provision
of 1.3 billion euros in the fourth quarter of 2009 for these
future payments, which decrease as the portfolio shrinks.  “Financially the impact is limited -- the capital release
translates to 5 euro cents a share,” said Benoit Petrarque, an
Amsterdam-based analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux who has a reduce
recommendation on the stock. “What’s positive for ING’s
management is that together with repayment of the remaining
state aid by 2015 this will be the end of the European
Commission’s involvement.”  ING has returned 7.8 billion euros from the direct capital
injection the government provided in 2008, with 2.4 billion
euros in interest and premiums. ING said on Oct. 30 that it
plans to repay another 1.13 billion euros on Nov. 6, while final
payments are scheduled for March 2014 and May 2015 at the
latest.  “Over the past years we have worked hard to make ING
stronger and simpler and to limit risks,” Chief Executive
Officer Ralph Hamers, who took the helm last month, said in the
statement. “We are looking ahead to take ING through the last
phase of our restructuring.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  