-- NFL Retirees’ $50 Million Images Accord Wins Approval
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-11-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/nfl-retirees-image-rights-settlement-gets-final-approval.html
A $50 million settlement of a lawsuit
against the National Football League over claims it made money
using players’ images in marketing without sharing it with them
was given final approval by a judge.  U.S. District Judge Paul A. Magnuson in St. Paul,
 Minnesota , yesterday approved the accord over objections that it
won’t put money directly into players’ hands. Critics of the
deal were lured by their attorneys’ promise of lucrative
payouts, the judge said.  “Although the objectors have been especially vociferous in
this matter, only one-tenth of one percent of the class
objected,” Magnuson wrote. “More importantly, the objections
raised here are without merit. Nearly all of the objections boil
down to what is, in the court’s view, the objector’s very
mistaken belief that they could reap significant financial
benefits from continuing this case.”  Under the terms of the settlement, the NFL will pay $42
million into a fund administered by retirees for their peers,
plus $8 million to defray legal expenses. An agency will be
created to handle ex-player image licensing. The NFL can deduct
as much as $13.5 million from the fund for expenses related to
opt-out claims, Magnuson said.  The accord ends a lawsuit filed in 2009 by six players
including former Los Angeles Ram Fred Dryer and Minnesota Viking Jim Marshall on behalf of all of their retired colleagues.  2,000 Opt-Outs  More than 2,000 requests for exclusion from the settlement
were filed by players including ex-Atlanta Falcons quarterback
Steve Bartkowski, onetime Baltimore Colts receiver Raymond Berry
and Kansas City Chiefs placekicker Jan Stenerud, according to
court filings. More than 150 withdrew their exclusion requests
after the deal won preliminary approval in April.  The chances of the lawsuit’s succeeding are “slim at
best,” Magnuson said, calling the settlement a remarkable
victory for the class as a whole.  The settlement “benefits all class members, not just those
who are well-known or whose publicity rights are the most
valuable,” Magnuson said.  The case is Dryer v. National Football League, 09-cv-02182,
U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota (St. Paul).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in federal court in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 