-- Nissan Cuts Full-Year Profit Forecast, Overhauls Management
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i ,   M a   J i e   a n d   K a e   I n o u e
-- 2013-11-01T07:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/nissan-cuts-full-year-profit-forecast-overhauls-management.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ,  Japan ’s second-biggest carmaker, lowered its full-year profit forecast by 15
percent after demand in emerging markets slowed and recall costs
mounted.  The company expects to post  net income  of 355 billion yen
($3.6 billion) in the year ending March 31, it said today.
That’s below the Yokohama, Japan-based carmaker’s previous
forecast of 420 billion yen and the 440.3 billion yen average of
18 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Profit is still
projected to rise from the previous year as the weaker yen helps
bolster earnings.  Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  also announced an
overhaul of Nissan’s management as he pursues an operating
profit margin target of 8 percent by the year ending March 2017.
The changes and earnings shortfall come amid slowing sales in
some emerging markets and a recall of 910,000 vehicles that
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates will cost the company about
15 billion yen.  “The outlook in  Thailand  will remain quite weak this year
mainly due to the lack of pent-up demand,” said  Ashvin Chotai ,
managing director of Intelligence Automotive Asia in London.
“It’s also certainly hard to be optimistic about  Indonesia  --
it’s a market which is always going to be volatile.”  Nissan also lowered its forecasts for operating profit and
revenue.  Under the management changes, Chief Operating Officer
Toshiyuki Shiga will become vice chairman and remain on the
board, though the COO position will be abolished.  New Lieutenants  Three new positions will be created -- reporting directly
to Ghosn -- to fill Shiga’s void, according to the company.  Among Ghosn’s new lieutenants will be Executive Vice
President Hiroto Saikawa, who will be chief competitive officer
overseeing the supply chain, research and development, as well
purchasing and manufacturing, Nissan said. Executive Vice
Presidents  Andy Palmer  and Trevor Mann will also take on
positions as chief planning officer and chief performance
officer, respectively, the company said.  Colin Dodge, currently executive vice president, will take
on a new role managing special projects and report directly to
Ghosn. Kimiyasu Nakamura, president of Chinese joint venture
Dongfeng Motor Co., will assume companywide responsibility for
customer satisfaction, reporting to Saikawa.  The executive reassignments are similar to what Ghosn did
at  Renault SA (RNO) , where he’s also CEO. Earlier this year, Ghosn
dropped the COO position at the French company after  Carlos Tavares  resigned and promoted internal executives to two newly
created positions.  Nissan will announce further appointments for Europe,
 Africa ,  Middle East  and India in the coming weeks, it said.  Financial Outlook  Nissan, the maker of Infiniti luxury cars, will also
reorganize its operations to six regions from three now,
breaking out markets such as China.  On Nissan’s reduced financial outlook, the company also
cited unfavorable exchange rates in  emerging markets , such as
the  Indian rupee . The company reduced its full-year global sales
forecast to 5.2 million units, compared with an earlier forecast
of 5.3 million.  Nissan fell 2.1 percent to close at 961 yen in  Tokyo 
trading before the announcement, cutting this year’s gain to 19
percent. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average has risen 37 percent.  Slowing Demand  Honda Motor Co., Japan’s third-largest carmaker, reported
second-quarter profit this week that fell short of analysts’
estimates amid slowing motorcycle sales and demand in Southeast
Asia. Honda deliveries in Thailand declined 22 percent in the
July-September quarter and the company cut its full-year
forecast for two-wheeler sales, citing weaker-than-expected
demand in Indonesia, Vietnam and India.  The Japanese carmaker is banking on the revamped versions
of its top-selling models in the U.S. -- the Altima sedan and
the Rogue small sport-utility vehicle, to continue boosting
sales.  Nissan remodeled the Rogue to get a bigger share of the
growing crossover segment from Honda Motor Co. and Ford Motor
Co. U.S. sales of the new version that’s built in Smyrna,
 Tennessee , start in November, Nissan said.  In Japan, operating income rose to 99.4 billion yen in the
quarter from 52.1 billion yen a year earlier. Domestic
deliveries increased 11 percent in the quarter as Nissan
introduced in June its first minicar jointly developed with
 Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  to compete in the segment, the sales of
which account for about 40 percent of new car sales in the
country.  Global Recall  Nissan said on Sept. 26 it would recall 910,000 vehicles
globally, including the Serena minivan and X-Trail SUV, over an
accelerator glitch. The recall will cost the company about 15
billion yen, weighing down the company’s quarterly profit,
according to Kota Yuzawa, an analyst with  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  in Tokyo.  Analysts have cut their estimates for second-quarter profit
by an average 21 percent from a month ago after the recall was
announced, according to earnings estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  “If this is a one-off and it it’s contained, and if all
adjustment occurs in this quarter, then that’s not necessarily
bad news for the share price,” said Chotai at Intelligence
Automotive Asia. “But it depends on the explanation of the
company so this is something to look at.”  Yen Impact  The carmaker is among Japanese exporters benefiting from
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s economic policies, which has
weakened the yen and increased the value of repatriated
earnings.  The yen has fallen about 12 percent against the dollar this
year, helping Japanese brands as they face the most competitive
lineup of vehicles from  General Motors Co. (GM) , Ford Motor Co. and
Chrysler Group LLC in a generation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Kae Inoue in Tokyo at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  