-- Ghosn Tightens Grip Over Nissan-Renault as COO Job Fades
-- B y   M a   J i e ,   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-11-01T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/nissan-cuts-full-year-profit-forecast-overhauls-management-1-.html
Being No. 2 to Carlos Ghosn, chief
executive officer at  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  and  Renault SA (RNO) , is no
longer the exclusive job it used to be.  Ghosn yesterday announced he’ll get rid of Nissan’s chief
operating officer position -- currently held by Toshiyuki Shiga
-- two months after doing so at the French carmaker he also
runs. Following the management overhaul, Ghosn’s No. 2s will be
four  executive vice presidents  at Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan.  The overhaul comes as Nissan,  Japan ’s second-largest
automaker, scales back its profit outlook at a time when the
weaker yen is bolstering the nation’s exporters. While Ghosn
said the elimination of the COO job is a sign of the company’s
maturity, the move also indicates the fate of Nissan and Renault
will increasingly depend on one man.  “Maybe Mr. Ghosn wanted to set up a single straightforward
chain of command at Nissan instead of having two captains at the
company,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , chief executive officer of Fukoku
Capital Management Inc. “Whether or not this will be good for
Nissan is difficult to say. Mr. Ghosn has changed many things at
Nissan and some have worked and some have not.”  Under the management changes announced yesterday, Shiga,
60, will step aside to become vice chairman and remain on the
board. The COO void will be filled via three new positions --
reporting directly to Ghosn, according to the company. Nissan,
the maker of Infiniti luxury cars, will also reorganize its
operations to six regions from three now, breaking out markets
such as  China .  Nissan announced the management overhaul changes yesterday
as the company pursues an operating profit margin target of 8
percent by the year ending March 2017. The automaker cut its
full-year profit forecast by 15 percent after demand in  emerging
markets  slowed and recall costs mounted. The automaker also
lowered its forecasts for operating profit and revenue.  The company expects to post  net income  of 355 billion yen
($3.6 billion) in the year ending March 31, it said yesterday.
That’s below the Yokohama, Japan-based carmaker’s previous
forecast of 420 billion yen and the 440.3 billion yen average of
18 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Profit is still
projected to rise from the previous year as the weaker yen helps
bolster earnings.  New Lieutenants  Among Ghosn’s new lieutenants will be Executive Vice
President Hiroto Saikawa, 59, who will be chief competitive
officer overseeing the supply chain, research and development,
as well purchasing and manufacturing, Nissan said. Executive
Vice Presidents Andy Palmer, 50,  and Trevor Mann, 52, will also
take on positions as chief planning officer and chief
performance officer, respectively, the company said.  Colin Dodge, 58, currently executive vice president, will
take on a new role managing special projects and report directly
to Ghosn. Kimiyasu Nakamura, president of Chinese joint venture
Dongfeng Motor Co., will assume companywide responsibility for
customer satisfaction, reporting to Saikawa.  “Nissan did not have the role of COO up to 2005,” Ghosn
said in an interview yesterday. “We created the role of COO at
the moment where I had to divide myself between Nissan and
Renault. But we don’t have to work like this.”  Renault Changes  The executive reassignments are similar to what Ghosn did
at Renault. Earlier this year, Ghosn dropped the COO position at
the French company after Carlos Tavares resigned and promoted
internal executives to two newly created positions.  Nissan will announce further appointments for Europe,
 Africa , Middle East and  India  in the coming weeks, it said.  On Nissan’s reduced financial outlook, the company also
cited unfavorable exchange rates in emerging markets, such as
the Indian rupee. The company reduced its full-year global sales
forecast to 5.2 million units, compared with an earlier forecast
of 5.3 million.  Ghosn said the company was sticking to its mid-term targets
and that the current problems with emerging markets won’t be
long-lasting.  Global Recall  Nissan said on Sept. 26 it would recall 910,000 vehicles
globally, including the Serena minivan and X-Trail SUV, over an
accelerator glitch. The recall will cost the company about 15
billion yen, weighing down the company’s quarterly profit,
according to Kota Yuzawa, an analyst with  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  in  Tokyo .  “If this is a one-off and if it’s contained, and if all
adjustment occurs in this quarter, then that’s not necessarily
bad news for the share price,” said  Ashvin Chotai , managing
director at Intelligence Automotive Asia in  London . “But it
depends on the explanation of the company so this is something
to look at.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  