-- NYC Marathon Reflects Lessons Learned From Sandy, Boston Bombing
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-11-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/nyc-marathon-reflects-lessons-learned-from-sandy-boston-bombing.html
Kate Gallagher wants her second
attempt at running the New York City Marathon to be less
embarrassing than her first. Race organizers do, too.  Gallagher, a health-care researcher at  Columbia University
Medical Center  in New York, was scheduled to run the five-borough race a year ago and volunteered to work three days
earlier at the marathon’s Health and Fitness Expo, handing out
T-shirts and assuring participants that the New York Road
Runners would stage the race even after  Hurricane Sandy . The
event was canceled the next day when the club and the city
reversed course amid overwhelming criticism after at least 41
people died and 4.8 million in the region lost power because of
the storm. Gallagher said she learned of the cancellation by
reading a friend’s Facebook post.  “It made me feel like a little bit of a jackass,”
Gallagher, 34, said in a telephone interview. “It’s not as if
they even e-mailed everybody. It was really disjointed.”  A year later, with clear skies forecast and about 21,000
entrants from 2012 registered to return for the race in two days
as part of an expected field of 45,000 to 47,000, NYRR is trying
to recover from its public-relations nightmare while confronting
a renewed threat of terrorism. Three people died and more than
260 were injured in dual bombings near the finish line of the
 Boston  Marathon in April, a reminder of how difficult it is to
keep a 26.2 mile (42.2 kilometer) race secure.  Watch Carefully  “They know all eyes are on them,” Andrew Gilman, chief
operating officer of the Washington-based CommCore Consulting
Group, which deals with crisis communication, said in a
telephone interview. “There’s increased scrutiny one year
after. How did they learn and recover from last year’s debacle
with Sandy? Add in Boston and now you have two pressure points.
Sure, there’s pressure.”  NYRR said it incurred a $4 million deficit in fiscal 2013,
which included the 2012 marathon. Among the costs were refunds
to runners and a $1 million donation to Sandy relief efforts.  At stake in this year’s race and the current fiscal year is
the confidence and trust of both  New Yorkers  and an
international field of runners, Gilman said.  The day before the 2012 race was canceled, New York Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  said it would go on because “there are an
awful lot of small businesses that depend on these people.”  The objections continued, particularly after the New York
Post published a photo of  portable emergency power generators 
being used for a Central Park marathon tent as city residents
went without electricity. Bloomberg, who is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, said later that day
that the race was off.  Storm Recovery  “We cannot allow a controversy over an athletic event --
even one as meaningful as this -- to distract attention away
from all the critically important work being done to recover
from the storm,” he said at a news conference.  A study commissioned by NYRR in 2010 found that the
economic impact of the race on the city was $340 million. The
effect of canceling the race on the economy was undetermined.
NYRR has spent about an additional $1 million on this year’s
race, half toward increased security and half to increase
cancellation insurance. In the aftermath of Sandy and the Boston
bombings, it’s also re-examined communications, which Chief
Executive Officer Mary Wittenberg said was the club’s biggest
misstep a year ago.  “We almost froze in communicating,” Wittenberg said in an
interview. “They were in the middle of the same storm, whether
it’s writers or runners, they all needed information, too, and
while we were always aware of trying to get to them, we today
will be much more communicative, more organized.”  Chasing Rumors  The race officially was canceled in a late Friday afternoon
joint statement from the city and NYRR. Speculation regarding
the decision began earlier in the day when “it wasn’t even true
yet,” making it hard for race organizers to communicate with
their own staff members and volunteers, Wittenberg said.  NYRR instituted daily press briefings in the run-up to this
year’s race, with instructions from Wittenberg to “say as much
as you can, even if you say the same thing.”  On course, runners will have visual cues in case of an
emergency. Using a plan instituted at the Chicago Marathon after
a runner’s heat-related death in 2007,  New York  runners will see
colored-coded flags at each fluid station along the course:
green will signal that conditions are good, yellow to use
caution, red to convey extreme caution and black that the race
is over.  “We’ve been working hard to communicate with the runners
that this is what you’re going to see,” said Chris Weiller, an
NYRR spokesman.  Boston Scene  Wittenberg spent part of the Boston Marathon in bleachers
near the finish line on Boylston Street. She was on a train to
New York when she learned of the bombings, which occurred about
three hours after the winners had finished. NYRR had 22
employees at the race, none of whom were injured.  “The first text I got was from somebody in the industry
who said, ‘Our greatest nightmare: Bombs at the finish,’’
Wittenberg said.  That night, Wittenberg spoke with New York Police
Commissioner Ray Kelly. She said she wanted a reassessment of
the marathon’s security plan, put into place after the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the
Pentagon, to ‘‘look at everything through the filter of what
just happened.’’  NYRR brought in a new firm,  MSA Security , to review past
protocols and assist on race day.  N.Y. ‘Feel’  ‘‘We got very high marks on everything we were doing but we
wanted to focus on what else we could do,’’ Wittenberg said.
‘‘The hope and goal is that it feels like the New York that
everyone’s used to feeling on marathon day, but there will be a
significant presence.’’  There will be more police and more bomb-sniffing dogs, she
said. Mail boxes and trash cans probably would be removed from
around the course, she added, though details of the security
plan are determined by the police.  NYRR plans to honor the victims of the Boston bombings
throughout the race, giving each entrant a blue and yellow
ribbon, the colors of the  Boston Athletic Association .  After thousands of last year’s would-be runners devoted
their time instead to helping Sandy relief efforts, NYRR this
year joined with NYC Service, the city’s charitable initiative,
to provide volunteer opportunities during race week.  New Sponsor  With its ING U.S. Inc. title sponsorship of the marathon
ending after this year, NYRR said on Oct. 1 that it had signed
an eight-year deal with Mumbai-based  Tata Consultancy Services
Ltd. (TCS) ,  Asia ’s largest computer-services exporter by market value.
The partnership will look to improve NYRR’s technological
capabilities to further improve communication with runners
throughout the year.  Wittenberg said NYRR prepares for all types and sizes of
potential problems, from terrorism and extreme weather to
missing manhole covers or water-main breaks.  ‘‘It sounds like they’ve tried to learn from their mistakes
and improve,” said CommCore’s Gilman, who has run the NYC
Marathon twice. “They need to know that the public and news
media will always compare and contrast. There is extra pressure
because it’s the first year afterwards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  