-- Oaktree Third-Quarter Profit Rises 70% on Management Fees
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-11-01T20:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/oaktree-third-quarter-profit-rises-70-on-management-fees.html
Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) , the
world’s largest distressed-debt investor, said third-quarter
profit rose 70 percent as it earned more fees for exceeding
performance targets.  Net income increased to $42.9 million, or $1.12 a share,
from $25.2 million, or 84 cents, a year earlier, Los Angeles-based Oaktree said in a statement today. Fee-related earnings,
which exclude payments to Oaktree for its unrealized gains, fell
18 percent to $59.8 million.  Oaktree is targeting annualized returns of 15 percent in
its distressed holdings, down from 20 percent in previous years,
Chairman  Howard Marks  told a conference audience in September.
The firm is seeking returns of about 10 percent by investing in
companies that are under financial pressure and not considered
distressed, as well as in real estate debt. Oaktree is on pace
to raise at least $10 billion this year for investments after
doing so for each of the past six years, according to Marks, 67,
who co-founded Oaktree in 1995.  “We’ve raised about $3 billion this year for strategies
that didn’t exist a year-and-a-half ago,”  John Frank , Oaktree’s
managing principal, said in a telephone interview today. “We’re
still in the early wave of that. Here we are in a period in
which there’s no distress and we’re growing very strongly.”  Oaktree fell 1.8 percent to close at $55.90 in New York.
The stock has gained 30 percent since the firm’s initial public
offering in April 2012, when the company raised $380 million
selling shares for $43 each, and is up 23 percent this year.  Fee Earnings  Oaktree’s fee-related earnings fell as expenses climbed.
Stockholders pay close attention to fee-related earnings as a
method of evaluating the consistency of alternative-asset firms’
incomes. Other metrics typically reflect volatile earnings
driven by the timing of asset sales.  Adjusted net income, a measure of profit excluding such
costs as noncash equity compensation and income taxes, rose to
$179.6 million, or $1.16 a share, from $157.7 million, or 88
cents, a year earlier. Analysts  expected  adjusted profit of $1 a
share, according to the average of eight estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  Oaktree’s incentive income, which it earns for exceeding
the performance thresholds it sets with clients, more than
doubled to $122.4 million in the third quarter from $59.2
million a year ago. Through the first nine months of the year,
the metric more than tripled to $788 million.  ’Not Great’  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , KKR & Co. and  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  all reported third-quarter net income that increased
from a year earlier as the values of their portfolios rose.
 Peter Briger , co-chairman of New York-based Fortress, said on a
conference call yesterday that too much money has been raised to
invest in distresses assets in  Europe  as companies there recover
from the continent’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The environment is “not great” for distressed investing,
said Oaktree’s Frank, and that will force the firm to ask
clients for an extension of the investment period for its
Principal Fund V, which seeks to take control positions in
distressed companies. The firm is diversifying and expects to
have raised $2.2 billion for strategic credit and $700 million
for real estate debt by year-end, Frank said.  Oaktree’s assets under management rose to $79.8 billion
from $76.4 billion at the end of the second quarter as the firm
attracted $3.7 billion in new money and made distributions to
investors. Oaktree said it has $12.3 billion in uninvested
committed capital, known as dry powder.  The company plans to pay shareholders a  dividend  of 74
cents per Class A unit on Nov. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  