-- Oerlikon Says ABB Executive Brice Koch to Become CEO
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-11-01T08:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/oerlikon-says-abb-executive-brice-koch-to-become-ceo.html
OC Oerlikon Corp. (OERL)  appointed Brice Koch of  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  as its new chief executive officer, ending
investor concern over the company’s leadership after former
Chief Michael Buscher left abruptly in March.  Koch, a member of ABB’s executive committee since 2010, led
the company’s power systems division since 2012 where lower
margin engineering, procurement and construction operations have
been stripped out.  “We advise investors to add to positions on this positive
news,” Patrick Laager, an analyst at Credit Suisse AG in
Zurich, wrote in a note to clients. “Today’s announcement is
removing a major part of the uncertainty in the investment case
which has hindered the stock to outperform the wider sector
since the departure of former CEO Michael Buscher back in
March.”  Koch will bring industrial experience from ABB to Oerlikon,
which was restructured after coming close to bankruptcy in 2009
and is now entering a growth phase. Koch will report to Tim Summers, Oerlikon’s Chairman and delegate of largest shareholder
Russian Billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg ’s Renova Group.  Buscher decided to leave March 14 after three years at the
helm and later became head of German brake-maker Knorr Bremse.  Earlier in his career, Koch, a French citizen, held roles
including head of ABB in  China  and head of Marketing and
Customer Solutions. Koch holds a PHD in material science from
the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Zurich.  Jurg Fedier, who has been interim CEO since March 14, will
resume the role of chief financial offer when Koch joins in the
first quarter, Pfaeffikon, Switzerland-based Oerlikon said in a
statement today.  ABB said an orderly succession process has been initiated
at Power Systems, which Koch will support before leaving. ABB
aims to have a permanent successor in place by the end of the
first quarter of 2014, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Noel at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net  