-- Office Depot Merger With OfficeMax Wins U.S. Approval
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-11-01T20:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/office-depot-merger-with-officemax-wins-u-s-approval.html
Office Depot Inc. (ODP) ’s purchase of
 OfficeMax Inc. (OMX)  won approval from U.S. antitrust regulators,
clearing the way for the office-supply companies to create a
single retailer to compete with  Staples Inc. (SPLS)   The U.S. Federal Trade Commission voted to close its seven-month investigation into the merger, saying online retailing
ensured competition in the retail market for office supplies,
according to a statement today.  The agency said the market has changed significantly since
1997, when it derailed Staples’s acquisition of Office Depot as
anticompetitive. Consumers today rely on retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  in addition to Internet shopping for office
products, the commission said.  “The current competitive dynamics are very different,”
the FTC said. “The commission’s investigation shows that
today’s market for the sale of consumable office supplies is
broader.”  Office Depot and OfficeMax, the second and third largest
office-supply chains in the U.S., agreed in February to  combine 
in a $1.17 billion deal after losing sales to online rivals and
to Staples. They said the merged company would have more than
2,100 stores and combined revenue of about $18 billion compared
with more than $24 billion in sales for Staples, the largest
office-supplies chain.  OfficeMax, based in Naperville,  Illinois ,  gained  3.5
percent to $15.50 in New York, and Office Depot, based in  Boca
Raton ,  Florida , rose 3.2 percent to $5.77. Staples rose 0.32
percent to $16.18.  Changed Industry  The merger will be completed Nov. 5, the companies said in
a statement. OfficeMax investors will swap a share for 2.69
shares of Office Depot under terms of the transaction.  The industry has changed since 1997, said Matt Reilly, an
antitrust attorney at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, which
advised Office Depot. When asked if the FTC’s decision could
impact other retail transactions, Reilly, a former lawyer at the
FTC, said “to the extent that other brick and mortar retailers
are facing the same competitve forces that office suppliers have
in terms of the Internet and big box stores, yes it will.”  Bradley Thomas, a New York-based analyst at Keybanc Capital
Markets Inc. said it wasn’t a surprise the transaction won
antitrust approval.  “There is competition coming from a number of fronts, not
just the office superstores,” said Thomas, who has a ‘buy’
recommendation on OfficeMax and Office Depot and a ‘sell’ on
Staples.  The merger represents “a new beginning for Office Depot
and OfficeMax -- one that will enable us to create a stronger,
more efficient” company, Office Depot Chief Executive Officer
Neil Austrian said in a statement.  Work Ahead  It still isn’t clear who will lead the new company, where
will it be headquartered and which brand will be used, said
Oliver Wintermantel, an analyst at International Strategy &
Investment Group LLC in  New York .  “They have a lot of work ahead of them,” Wintermantel,
who has a neutral rating on Office Depot and OfficeMax, said in
an interview.  The companies said in August they aimed to have a CEO in
place by September. At the time, they said they had five
candidates, without disclosing their names. Ravi Saligram,
OfficeMax’s CEO, later said he withdrew his name from
consideration. Office Depot CEO Austrian also was part of the
search, but neither he nor the company has said he was a
finalist. Both companies declined to comment on when a CEO would
be named.  Having a larger competitor doesn’t bode well for Staples,
said Wintermantel, who has a sell rating on the shares. The
Framingham, Massachusetts-based chain has posted declining sales
in seven of the past eight quarters.  Bigger, Leaner  The Office Depot-OfficeMax combination will have more power
when dealing with vendors and the impetus to close a lot of
underperforming stores, a move needed throughout the industry,
Wintermantel said. “They have become a bigger and leaner
company, so for Staples it will become harder down the road,”
he said.  Over the next few years, the merger will help Staples, said
 Gary Balter , a New York-based analyst with Credit Suisse Group
AG. Staples will pick up sales as the merged company closes
stores. Contract customers are also more likely to move over to
Staples because of disruption caused by the tie-up, he added.
The benefit of the merger could add 32 cents to Staples’s
earnings per share next year, Balter said.  “There will be some growing pains” as it “depends a lot
on how they execute,” said Balter, who has an ‘outperform’
rating OfficeMax, and ‘neutral’ ratings for Office Depot and
Staples. “Staples will try to take advantage of that.”  Cost Savings  The merging companies have said they expect the combination
to cut as much as $600 million in costs. That doesn’t include
what could be saved from closing stores, as they were waiting
for approval from the FTC to provide those details, Balter said.
The new company may close 500 stores by 2016, Balter wrote in a
note to clients in May.  Staples and Office Depot-OfficeMax are all facing declining
demand as offices become more digital and have less need for
pens, papers and printers.  “We are still bearish on the industry,” ISI’s
Wintermantel said. That being said, the merger “was the right
decision because without it one would have gone away in a few
years.”  Fitch Ratings  said Staples may benefit from the deal in an
Oct. 2 research note. Disruption from the combination should
help Staples retain existing contract customers and win new
customers from Office Depot and OfficeMax, Fitch said. Any store
closures would also reduce excess square footage in the sector,
according to the note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  