-- Oil-Tanker Rates Surge as Chinese Demand for Cargoes Accelerates
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-11-01T14:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/oil-tanker-rates-surge-as-chinese-demand-for-cargoes-accelerates.html
Rates for the largest oil-tankers
surged as Chinese freight traders led an acceleration in Asian
demand for the ships to load Middle East crude, sapping a fleet
surplus that made the carriers unprofitable almost all year.  A very large crude carrier built 16 years ago was hired
today at about 13 percent more than yesterday’s prevailing
prices, according to Dynacom Tankers Management Ltd., an Athens-based owner. There hasn’t been a bigger one-day gain in 2013,
according to data from the  Baltic Exchange , a London-based
publisher of freight costs on more than 50 trade routes.  Rising demand has cut a capacity  surplus  to the smallest
since June 4, according to weekly surveys by  Bloomberg News .
Increased bookings by Chinese buyers depleted the excess in the
largest loading region, according to Halvor Ellefsen, a
shipbroker at Galbraith’s Ltd. in London. VLCCs earned $5,598 a
day on average this year, less than they need to cover running
costs including crew and repairs, Baltic Exchange data show.  “We are seeing very big demand,” said Odysseas Valatsas,
chartering manager at Dynacom in  Athens , adding bookings to  Asia 
are rising most. “The market is going up by the hour and supply
hasn’t been this tight for months.”  Rates on the industry’s benchmark  Saudi Arabia  to Japan
route jumped 6.5 percent to 46.48 Worldscale points yesterday,
according to the Baltic Exchange. It publishes a price for the
route once a day, at about 4 p.m. in London. Earnings surged 28
percent yesterday to $22,358 a day, the largest one-day gain
since Oct. 16.  West African demand is also strengthening, meaning a higher
proportion of ships have sailed there instead, Ellefsen said.  “Rates have been lifted to a new high spurred by early
December West Africa fixing, with rates at excess of 50
Worldscale points and a continued flow of Persian Gulf
cargoes,” Ellefsen said by phone today. “We doubt the owning
community is going to run out of ambition any time soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in  London  at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  