-- London Royal Docks Site Purchased by Singapore Developer
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-11-01T12:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/london-royal-docks-site-purchased-by-singapore-developer.html
Oxley Holdings Ltd. (OHL) , a Singapore-based property developer, plans to build 3,400 homes in  London 
after buying the city’s largest mixed-use real estate site since
a group of Malaysian investors agreed to purchase Battersea
Power Station in June 2012.  The developer bought the 40-acre (16-hectare) Royal Wharf
site at the Royal Docks on the banks of the  River Thames  from
Ballymore Properties Holdings Ltd. and will build homes, offices
and shops, broker  Knight Frank  LLP said in an e-mailed statement
today. Oxley agreed to pay 200 million pounds ($320 million) for
the site, the developer said in a separate statement.  “Royal Wharf is an outstanding opportunity and offers a
blank canvas to create something very special for London,”
Oxley Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ching Chiat Kwong
said in the statement. “Oxley will create a vibrant district
and the opportunity cannot be missed by Londoners.”  The deal adds to an influx of Asian investment in London.
Malaysian companies SP Setia Bhd and Sime Darby Bhd and the
Employees Provident Fund, bought the landmark Battersea site, a
derelict power plant that’s also Europe’s largest brick
building, for 400 million pounds.  More than 250 million pounds was spent on land for homes in
London’s Docklands area this year and an additional 2 billion
pounds must be invested to fund the projects, according to  Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   Knight Frank, based in London, was hired to sell the site
along with broker Alan Selby and Partners LLP in April.  “My team and I met with Oxley Holdings on our trade
mission to China last month and I am thrilled at this
demonstration of their confidence in our great city,” London
Mayor  Boris Johnson  said in a statement. “It is further
evidence of the colossal appetite of developers from the far
East and elsewhere to invest in London.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  