-- Opaque PBOC Fuels Transparency Call as Rates Swing: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-01T03:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/opaque-pboc-fuels-transparency-call-as-rates-swing-china-credit.html
China ’s tightest credit conditions
since a record cash crunch in June are prompting global
investors to call for greater transparency from the central bank
in the world’s second-largest economy.  The benchmark seven-day repurchase  rate  climbed 85 basis
points to 5.05 percent in October, derailing a stock market
rally and driving the one-year government bond  yield  to a record
high. In June, the  Shanghai  Composite Index of shares  sank  7.7
percent after the repo rate touched an all-time high of 10.77
percent. Then, as now, the People’s Bank of China said it was
pursuing a “prudent” monetary policy even as it suspended cash
injections into the banking system.  “The fundamental opaqueness of monetary policy making
hasn’t changed since June,” said  David Loevinger , Los Angeles-based emerging-markets managing director at TCW Group Inc.,
which oversees $128 billion in assets. “We don’t know who makes
these decisions and how they’re made. Investors will demand a
premium for investing in more opaque markets.”  China’s money markets have become more volatile as policy
makers seek to defend a 7.5 percent economic expansion target
while cracking down on excessive growth in lending and property
prices. It isn’t clear what the central bank’s goals are and
what role these play in monetary policy, said Loevinger.
Standard Chartered Plc said clearer communication is needed to
stabilize market expectations.  Conflicting Signals  The Chinese central bank’s most recent official statement
was on Oct. 16, when it signaled tightening by saying it sees
pressure for faster credit expansion from the  Federal Reserve ’s
decision to hold off on reducing stimulus, the  trade surplus  and
capital inflows. The PBOC didn’t respond to a fax requesting
comment yesterday on its policy stance.  The central bank suspended sales of reverse repos on Oct.
17, after offering seven- or 14-day contracts at twice-weekly
auctions for more than three months. The  cash injections  resumed
this week, adding 29 billion yuan to the financial system.  The benchmark money-market  rate  slid 108 basis points since
Oct. 30 to 4.6130 percent as of 11:21 a.m. in Shanghai,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. This came after the monetary authority
conducted 16 billion yuan ($2.6 billion) of 14-day reverse-repurchase agreements at a yield of 4.3 percent yesterday.
That’s less than the 48 billion  yuan  auctioned at 4.1 percent on
Oct. 10, when the contracts were last issued.  “They’ve been sending out mixed signals,” said Becky Liu,
a senior rate strategist at Standard Chartered Plc in Hong Kong.
“On the one hand, they show a willingness to support, which
means a repeat of the June crisis is definitely not happening.
On the other, they actually confused markets” by allowing rates
to rise.  Party Meeting  China’s second cash crunch of the year comes just before a
Communist Party meeting that will set the nation’s policies for
the next few years. The leadership will consider
“unprecedented’’ economic reforms at the Nov. 9-12 plenum,
Politburo member Yu Zhengsheng said last month. The meeting will
study measures proposed by the State Council’s research arm,
including liberalizing  interest rates  and making the yuan a
major currency for international settlement and investment
within 10 years, the official Xinhua News Agency said Oct. 27.  Cash Conditions  As cash conditions tightened, the  yield  on the nation’s 10-year government bonds climbed 12 basis points in the past two
weeks to 4.22 percent on Oct. 30, the highest since September
2008, according to Chinabond data. The yuan rose 0.45 percent in
October, the most since May, as the central bank focused on
controlling inflation. The currency was little changed at 6.0940
per dollar in Shanghai today.  “The PBOC tends to be vague, but you can tell from their
actions they’re determined about tightening,” said Huang Wentao, a Beijing-based bond analyst at China Securities Co.,
the nation’s third-biggest underwriter of corporate debt. The
liquidity squeeze will subside by mid-November, he added.  China’s  foreign-exchange reserves , the world’s largest
stockpile, rose to $3.66 trillion in the third quarter, a sign
the government’s efforts to protect growth drew money even as
developing nations from  India  to  Indonesia  saw the exit of
capital.  Yuan positions  at China’s financial institutions
accumulated from foreign-exchange purchases climbed 0.5 percent,
the most since April, to 27.5 trillion yuan. The average yield
on Dim Sum bonds dropped 30 basis points to 4.02 percent
yesterday in  Hong Kong , a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
shows.  Major Decisions  “While there has been a lot of progress and there are a
lot of opportunities, investors in Chinese companies in the Dim
Sum market still have to deal with issues of financial and
policy transparency,” said TCW’s Loevinger, a former U.S.
Treasury Department senior coordinator for China affairs. “With
some other central banks you have a better sense of who the
decision makers are and how they voted on major policy
decisions.”  The PBOC halted bill sales in June after the seven-day repo
rate surged to a record. It didn’t make any official comment in
the week ended June 21, and released a statement on June 24
dated June 17 saying there’s a reasonable amount of liquidity in
the financial system and that banks should control risks from
credit expansion.  Aggregate financing , a measure of credit that includes
trust loans, stock and bond sales, was 1.4 trillion yuan in
September, more than double the amount of five years ago.  “The PBOC has a much higher level of credibility than it
deserves,” said  Michael Shaoul , chairman and chief executive
officer of Marketfield Asset Management LLC in  New York , which
oversees $17 billion of assets. “If you look at what they’ve
allowed to happen, the degree to which credit has expanded over
the last couple of years, I think it’s reckless.”  Sales Delayed  Export-Import Bank of China postponed two bond sales due to
market turbulence, an official at the policy lender said Oct.
25., while China Development Bank Corp. reduced the size of its
bond offering to 15 billion yuan from 26 billion yuan on Oct.
29. When Chinese regulators tightened  money supply  in June, at
least 22 companies scrapped or delayed debt sales.  “The events in June highlighted to a lot of people how a
lack of transparency can exacerbate market volatility,” said
TCW’s Loevinger. “ Winston Churchill ’s characterization of
 Russia  can still be applied to China’s monetary policy making:
’A riddle, wrapped in a mystery, inside an enigma.’”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Justina Lee in Hong Kong at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  