-- Morgan Stanley CEO Gorman Says He Doesn’t See Market Bubbles
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-11-01T15:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/morgan-stanley-ceo-gorman-says-he-doesn-t-see-market-bubbles-1-.html
Morgan Stanley Chief Executive
Officer James P. Gorman said he doesn’t see evidence of market
bubbles developing and that investors should celebrate when the
Federal Reserve starts to reduce extra support to the economy.  “There’s a lot of robustness,” Gorman said today during
an interview on Bloomberg Television with  Erik Schatzker . “The
indices have obviously rebounded tremendously, but from very low
levels.”  Gorman, whose New York-based company runs the world’s
largest brokerage, was responding to remarks by  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) 
CEO Laurence D. Fink, who said Oct. 29 that the Fed’s effort to
boost the economy by holding down interest rates has fueled
“bubble-like markets.” The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  has
risen 23 percent this year and set a record high the day Fink
spoke. His firm is the world’s biggest money manager.  While the Fed’s program of bond buying has created “a
flood of money” in the debt markets, “it’s been necessary to
get this country back in balance,” said Gorman, 55.  “The reason they’re keeping it in place is because the
economy is not growing and the economy is not doing what it’s
supposed to do, which is creating jobs,” Gorman said. Reducing
the central bank’s $85 billion in monthly bond purchases would
mean employment is back to where it should be, he said.  The  Morgan Stanley (MS)  chief said his priority is getting the
firm’s capital into “prime shape.” He’s also positioning the
company to create enough earnings for incremental stock
buybacks, he said. The bank said in July it will repurchase $500
million in stock after receiving no objections from the Fed.  “We have been very conservative the last several years
relating to capital and capital management, and at times we’ve
been criticized for that, for being too conservative,” Gorman
said. “We’ve just started that program, so we’re going to take
a very balanced approach here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  