-- Morgan Stanley Pledges $1 Billion to Boost Sustainability
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-11-01T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/morgan-stanley-pledges-1-billion-to-boost-sustainability.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  said it will invest $1
billion to help improve affordable housing as part of a broader
push to encourage investment in efforts that aid economic,
social and environmental sustainability.  The bank is also seeking to attract $10 billion of client
assets to fund investments designed to provide social benefits
in addition to financial returns, New York-based Morgan Stanley
said today in an e-mailed statement. Audrey Choi, who leads the
bank’s sustainable finance group, will serve as chief executive
officer of the newly established Morgan Stanley Institute for
Sustainable Investing.  The biggest U.S. banks have sought to combine their
abilities of advising companies and allocating capital with
socially minded pursuits in the wake of public outrage and
government rescues resulting from the financial crisis. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. announced earlier this year that it was
investing in so-called social-impact bonds that funded early
education in the U.S.  “The most effective solutions to sustainability challenges
are those that can be brought to scale,” Morgan Stanley CEO
James Gorman, 55, said in the statement. “Our clients are
increasingly turning their attention to what it takes to secure
the lasting and safe supplies of food, energy, water and shelter
necessary for sustainable prosperity.”  Gorman, who spoke about the new initiative today at
Columbia University in New York, will serve as chairman of the
effort’s advisory board. The institute will also focus on
developing new products that have a sustainability-related
strategy, and will fund a fellowship through Columbia Business
School to promote research on the topic.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  