-- Palm Oil Supplies in Indonesia Seen Disrupted by Prolonged Rains
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-11-01T08:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/palm-oil-supplies-in-indonesia-seen-disrupted-by-prolonged-rains.html
Palm oil production in  Indonesia , the
world’s largest supplier, may be less than expected this year
after prolonged rains disrupted harvesting and transport,
according to industry groups.  Rainfall hurt crops in the first half and early in the
second half, said Susanto, head of marketing at the Indonesian
Palm Oil Association, whose members are producers and refiners.
Production may recover through February, he said in a phone
interview today. The Indonesia Palm Oil Board, a separate body,
may reduce its output estimate, said Chairman Derom Bangun.  Futures traded in Kuala Lumpur advanced to the highest in
more than a year and entered bull-market territory on concern
that production in Indonesia and  Malaysia  was less than analysts
predicted and that the start of the monsoon may further curb
supply.  PT Astra Agro Lestari (AALI) , PT Perusahaan Perkebunan London
Sumatra Indonesia and PT  Sampoerna Agro (SGRO)  are among companies to
report lower output this year.  “People expected production in the second half to reach 60
percent of the annual total, but that seems unreachable,” said
Susanto from the association known as Gapki. “Crop patterns are
shifting. The peak is normally October, but maybe this year
we’ll see big production through the end of the year, and even
into February.” Susanto manages plantations in Kalimantan on
Borneo island.  Prices climbed as much as 1.2 percent to 2,624 ringgit a
metric ton today and headed for the biggest weekly gain in
almost three years on the Bursa Malaysia Derivatives. The
contract for January delivery was at 2,617 ringgit at 4:42 p.m.
in  Kuala Lumpur .  Supply Drop  The Palm Oil Board, which includes oleochemical and
biodiesel companies, may cut its production estimate this year
after November data are available, said Bangun. The group cut
its estimate to 26.7 million tons to 27 million tons on Sept. 30
from 28 million tons. Output was 25.7 million tons in 2012.  Several major plantations reported that production
unexpectedly declined 7 percent to 10 percent in the first 10
months, said Bangun. Some regions had too much rain during the
dry season disrupting pollination and some trees suffered from a
five-year low in their production cycle, he said.  Astra Agro, the country’s largest listed plantation company
by market value, had a 7.1 percent decline in fresh fruit bunch
output in the first nine months to 3.67 million tons, the
company said Oct. 28.  London Sumatra (LSIP)  reported a 17 percent drop
in production to 1.2 million tons, and output fell 29 percent to
804,341 tons at Sampoerna Agro.  While production declined for some companies, exports
increased. Shipments climbed 19 percent to 15.3 million tons in
the first nine months, according to Gapki data compiled by
Bloomberg. Consumption also rose because of policies that
required greater use of biodiesel, according to Bangun.  That may cut inventories to 2.2 million tons by the end of
2013 from 2.5 million tons a year earlier, said Bangun.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  