-- Paul Predicts Confirmation of Yellen as Fed Chief (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-11-01T16:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/paul-predicts-confirmation-of-yellen-as-fed-chief-transcript-.html
Senator  Rand Paul , a Republican from
 Kentucky , said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that he
expects  Federal Reserve  Vice Chairman Janet Yellen to win U.S.
Senate confirmation to succeed  Ben S. Bernanke  as the central
bank’s chairman.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the program with Senator Rand Paul of
Kentucky. Senator, let’s start with NSA surveillance and the
revelation that we listened in, among others, on  Germany ’s
 Angela Merkel ’s private conversations. Is this just business as
usual, as General Clapper says? And do you believe that
President Obama didn’t know anything about it?  SENATOR RAND PAUL: It’s hard to believe he didn’t know. And
my question is, are they tapping the president’s phone, also?
He’s got a cellphone.  HUNT: The NSA or the Germans?  PAUL: Well, the NSA. I mean, think about it. And I say that
a bit facetiously, but at the same time, the warrants that are
coming out of the FISA court are so expansive and without limit
and non-specific that they apply to all cellphones. So
conceivably the NSA could be spying on the president’s phone.  HUNT: You think that’s conceivable?  PAUL: Well, I mean, I don’t - in a bulk way, yes, that he
could be included. Now, I think he’s encrypted. He’s protecting
himself from his own spy agency, because he’s got his phone
encrypted. But do the rest of Americans have to get encrypted
phones?  HUNT: There are also reports that the NSA spied on
communication links of Yahoo and Google without telling them and
there’s no law against that, but was that an overreach? And
should Yahoo and Google be able to release all of the requests
they get from NSA?  PAUL: The definition of overreach is everything the NSA has
been doing over the last several years.  HUNT: So Yahoo and Google would -  PAUL: We’ve gone too far. We’ve gone too far. The president
likes to say there’s a balance between liberty and privacy. Well
- and government. We’ve gone overboard on every - in every
venue. This needs to be reassessed.  And the most important question of all this to me and of
any reform is this needs to be assessed, debated, and discussed
in an open format before the  Supreme Court . It totally goes
against everything our country stands for to have a secret
court, FISA, meets in - in secret. There are no two sides. The
government presents evidence. There’s no one to present another
point of view, and then to decide in secret if the  Fourth
Amendment  applies -  HUNT: And would you like to see Google and Yahoo and others
be able to release the requests they get?  PAUL: Absolutely. Absolutely.  HUNT: They should?  PAUL: But you know what I would also do? And they may not
like this so much, is the Patriot Act took away liability
protection or gave them liability protection. My privacy
agreement with any of these Internet companies is only so good
as they believe that I could sue them over it. If I can’t sue
them over it, my privacy agreement means nothing.  HUNT: So release information, but take away liability?  PAUL: Absolutely.  HUNT: Let’s turn to the Fed. You have said that you want to
hold up the nomination of  Janet Yellen  until you get a vote on
your Fed audit bill.  Harry Reid  says he has the votes to get
Yellen passed now. Does he? And what kind of support do you
have?  How long can you hold her up? Will you filibuster?  PAUL: Well, here’s the whole thing. The audit the Fed bill
passed in the House after 20 years of my dad agitating on this,
every Republican and 100 Democrats, overwhelmingly bipartisan
transparency bill. Apparently, Janet Yellen’s been in favor of
transparency at the Fed. That’s all we’re asking for, is an open
audit a year after the fact.  I think that there are a lot of people in middle-class
America with - some want to call flyover America where I live
who are concerned about the revolving door from the Treasury to
 Wall Street  firms to the Federal Reserve, and our concern is,
are any of these manipulations of money and money being
distributed helping people personally?  HUNT: Let’s -  PAUL: Are people becoming wealthy off of policy that we
should know about?  HUNT: I want to ask you one more question about that, but
how about Yellen, per se? Will that nomination be approved this
year? Will you be able to hold it up? Will you filibuster it?  PAUL: In the old days, you could place a hold on and keep
it forever. Even if I stand on the floor and filibuster in a
personal fashion, I can only hold it there for two days.  HUNT: So she’s going to be confirmed?  PAUL: In all likelihood, yes. But I want to draw attention
to the fact that audit the Fed has been held hostage by  Senator
Reid  for three years. And once upon a time, he was for audit the
Fed. We had floor speeches all through the ’90s, he would come
down here with Senator Dorgan, and they were for auditing the
Fed. My question is, let us have at least a vote on this.  HUNT: Some people say that if you take away any
independence from the Fed, which an audit would do, that it goes
to Congress, and that that means the party in power can
influence pressure to the central bank to adopt policies to
their political liking.  PAUL: If they’re not doing anything untoward, there should
be no reason why we couldn’t look at it. This doesn’t affect any
Fed power to look back over a year’s period of time.  I think
it’s the very least we can do. The Federal Reserve is a creation
of Congress. They are under our jurisdiction. Right now, we’re
going the opposite way in all of government. The biggest problem
- if I could name one problem in all of government, it’s giving
power to agencies that are not directly responsive, either
bureaucracies or the Federal Reserve. Like, Dodd-Frank created a
whole new agency that’s no longer responsive to the -  HUNT: If you got a vote on the Senate floor, if you
actually got a vote, do you think you could secure 51 votes?  PAUL: I don’t know that we can win - sometimes they play a
game, they don’t let you win with 51. You’ve got to have 60.  HUNT: That’s right. That’s right.  PAUL: It’s unlikely to have 60. We have 25 co-sponsors.
We’ve been as high as 37. We have one Democrat co-sponsor, so
there’s not a great groundswell on their side. But I think if
you ask the American people, I think it’s an issue that 70
percent of the American people don’t think it’s right for a guy
to come out of the Treasury and make $160 million on Wall Street
the very next year and then go back into Treasury the next year.
This revolving door, we should at least know what the policy is
and whether anybody’s getting rich off of that policy.  HUNT: Let me ask you a couple political questions. There
are a number of conservative groups,  Jim DeMint ’s group, the
Senate Conservative Fund, the Club for Growth, that are
supporting challengers to incumbent Republican senators,  Kansas ,
 Mississippi , even Kentucky, where you’re backing Mitch
McConnell. Is this helpful or hurtful for the  Republican Party ?  PAUL: I’m a big believer in the free market. That means
competition’s good. It makes us all better through competition.
Now, am I supporting any of the challengers against incumbents?
No. But is competition good? Yeah, it makes us hone our message
better, makes us present it better. Without competition, we’d
look more like one-party rule and -  HUNT: So it’s helpful, then?  PAUL: I don’t think it hurts debate. Discussion is good.  HUNT: You and Senator  Ted Cruz , both first-term senators,
both staunch conservatives, both have attracted national
attention, how are you different philosophically or
temperamentally?  PAUL: You know, I don’t know if I have an answer to that.
We are friends, you know. We probably vote together a large
portion of the time. Everybody’s different individually, but I
think it’s sort of presumptuous of an individual to say, “Oh,
well, I’m different in personality.” And that’s more for
someone to judge, rather than me to describe, I think.  HUNT: How about January, when we hit the next continuing
resolution? Will there be another shutdown?  PAUL: I don’t think so, but I think - what I tell people at
home is, there’s a conundrum. Nobody at home - and I mean nobody
- thinks that we should raise the debt ceiling without
conditions. But they also aren’t real excited about going
through deadlines. They’re not excited about shutdowns, either.
It is a conundrum. But if we do nothing, and the president says
he won’t negotiate, he won’t compromise, we just keep adding and
adding more debt -  HUNT: So there will be some conditions, then -  PAUL: There has to be. There has to be conditions. And in
2011 -  HUNT: Do you have a prime condition or two you’d like to
add to the debt?  PAUL: Well, in 2011, we did a sequester, a small percentage
on just the discretionary spending. Do that on mandatory, and I
might retire. If you put a 1 percent cut in mandatory spending
for 10 years -  HUNT: You don’t think you could get that through the
Senate, though, do you?  PAUL: If you - if you would, I could back to practicing
medicine, because you would fix the country. The largest problem
we have is the imbalance of payments. And it really is why we’re
struggling as an economic - as an economy.  HUNT: Can I ask you a final parochial question? You’re
supporting  Mitch McConnell  in Kentucky in his primary campaign.
His opponent, Matt Bevin, says he was with you in your suite on
Election Night 2010. McConnell’s camp says, no, he wasn’t. Was
he? Do you remember him being there?  PAUL: You know, it’s one of those things where you have to
testify in court a few years later and you have to swear on a
Bible.  HUNT: Yeah.  PAUL: I couldn’t swear on a Bible, but I’m also not going
to say he wasn’t there.  There’s a very good - if he says he was
there, he probably was. But it was crazy. It was a really
exciting time there. I won, and there were hundreds of people
everywhere, and we were jubilant, and celebrating so I can’t
tell you everybody who was there. But I can tell you, he was a
supporter of mine. He donated to me, and I met on several
occasions. I think he’s a good man. And I’m not going to say
anything bad about him.  I made a decision. Everybody else has to make their
decision. I’m one vote in Kentucky. And - but competition’s
good. So I think it makes us all better.  HUNT: Senator Rand Paul, thank you so much for being with
us today.  PAUL: Sure.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 