-- Plosser Sees Inflation as Risk When Fed Unwinds Balance Sheet
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-11-01T12:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/plosser-sees-inflation-as-risk-when-fed-unwinds-balance-sheet.html
Charles Plosser , president of the
 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia , said inflation will be a
concern as the Fed unwinds its balance sheet following
unprecedented asset purchases.  “We have created over $2 trillion of excess reserves that
are sitting on the balance sheets of the banks, it’s just
sitting there, it’s not inflationary,” Plosser said today on
CNBC television. “It will be inflationary when that starts to
flow out of the banking system, that’s when we’ll have to start
worrying about inflation.”  Price gains have been lagging behind Fed policy makers’ 2
percent target. The Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation, the
personal consumption expenditures index, rose 1.2 percent in
August and hasn’t breached 2 percent since March 2012.  Plosser, who has opposed the Fed’s current round of asset
purchases, also said it’s possible that the central bank could
opt to let  assets mature  rather than selling them, though that
also poses risk.  “We don’t know with a balance sheet and as many assets as
we do have, what the path of  interest rate  is likely to do, and
whether the tools we have can suffice,” to manage the outflow
and credit in the economy without selling, Plosser said. “We
think we can, but we don’t know that for sure.”  Plosser said “we, as the Fed, and as the central banker,
have to think about what could go wrong.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  this week pressed on with
bond purchases of $85 billion per month, awaiting further signs
the economy will grow quickly enough to bring down 7.2 percent
 unemployment . Economists in a Bloomberg survey project that
tapering will begin in March, based on the median estimate.  Plosser, 65, became president of the Philadelphia Fed in
August 2006. Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy
with Plosser voting next year. He said today that he expects the
 unemployment rate  will “drift down slowly” going forward, and
“we could very well be at 6.5 percent at the end of next
year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  