-- Pound Weakens Versus Dollar on Speculation Fed to Taper Stimulus
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-11-01T16:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/pound-gains-for-third-day-versus-euro-before-u-k-output-report.html
The pound fell versus the dollar,
extending the biggest weekly drop since July, as signs the  U.S.
economy  is improving fueled speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
remove stimulus that tends to weaken the greenback.  Sterling weakened versus most of its 16 major peers as a
gauge of whether British economic data is beating forecasts
dropped to the lowest level since June. The pound headed for the
steepest weekly gain since September versus the euro as
investors bet the  European Central Bank  will lower  interest
rates  as soon as next week. U.K. government bonds fell for a
second day after an industry report showed manufacturing output
expanded for a seventh month in October.  “There’s a decline in the pound versus the dollar as the
dollar rebounds,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London . “The U.S. data has
signaled some upside to U.S. growth and the market is a bit
nervous about whether the Fed could taper sooner than it
expects. The U.K. economic outlook is still improving but it’s
having less of a positive impact on the pound.”  Sterling fell 0.8 percent to $1.5915 at 4:36 p.m. London
time. It has declined 1.6 percent versus the U.S. currency this
week, the steepest drop since the period ended July 5. The pound
was little changed at 84.72 pence per euro. It has climbed 0.8
percent this week, the biggest gain since Sept. 27.  The Citigroup U.K. Economic Surprise Index fell for a
seventh day to 17.7, the lowest since June 17. The gauge, which
shows whether data beat or fell short of economists’ forecasts,
climbed to this year’s high of 113.30 on Aug. 19.  U.S. Strength  In the U.S., the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
manufacturing index climbed to 56.4, the highest since April
2011, from 56.2 a month earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-based
group’s report showed today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of analysts was 55.  The U.S. economy shows signs of “underlying strength,”
the Fed said on Oct. 30, fueling speculation it will begin
reducing its $85 billion monthly bond-buying stimulus sooner
than previously expected.  The pound slid 1.1 percent in the past month, the worst
performer after  Sweden ’s krona among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar rose 0.9 percent and the euro climbed 0.5 percent.  The 10-year gilt yield rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.65 percent. The 2.25 percent bond due in
September 2023 fell 0.28, or 2.80 pounds per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 96.55. Ten-year yields increased four basis points
 this week .  ‘Robust Number’  An  index  of U.K. manufacturing, based on a survey of
 purchasing managers , fell to 56 from a revised 56.3 in
September, London-based Markit Economics said. A reading above
50 indicates expansion.  “The data is good, it’s a robust number,” said Peter Kinsella, a senior currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in
London. “You’ve got the ECB, which is potentially going to cut
rates, making policy more expansionary, and in the U.K. that’s
not being done. Activity data seems to be improving and that’s
good for the pound” versus the euro, he said.  Gilts returned 0.8 percent in the month, according to
Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Treasuries and German bonds gained
0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  