-- Puerto Rico Economy Forecast to Shrink 0.8% in Fiscal 2014
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-11-01T23:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/puerto-rico-economy-forecast-to-shrink-0-8-in-fiscal-2014.html
Puerto Rico officials project the
commonwealth’s economy will shrink by 0.8 percent this fiscal
year, a reversal from an earlier estimate calling for an
expansion.  The flagging growth is a blow as the island of 3.7 million
struggles to turn around its finances. The Planning Board, which
released the data today, previously said the economy would
expand by 0.2 percent in the year that began July 1.  Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla, 42, who took office in
January, is trying to keep the commonwealth’s investment-grade
rating. It is currently ranked one step above junk, and its
securities are on pace for their worst year since 2008 on
concern that a contracting economy may make it harder for the
territory to repay its debts.  Standard & Poor’s has threatened to lower Puerto Rico by
one level “if the economy deteriorates to the point we believe
it significantly hampers the ability to lower budget deficits,”
David Hitchcock, an analyst at the New York-based company, said
in an Oct. 23 report.  “We are confident in our ability to continue to make
significant progress on our fiscal and economic development
plans, and remain focused on creating a platform for sustainable
economic growth,” commonwealth Treasury Secretary Melba Acosta
said by e-mail.  Nationwide Demand  Garcia Padilla is trying to bring the commonwealth out of a
prolonged recession. The island’s economy has declined each year
since 2006, except for 0.1 percent growth in fiscal 2012,
according to Robert Donahue, a managing director at Concord,
Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors.  The fiscal health of Puerto Rico affects the $3.7 trillion
municipal market because more than three-quarters of U.S. muni
mutual funds hold the island’s obligations, according to
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  The securities are tax-exempt nationwide. The
commonwealth and its agencies have $70 billion of debt, double
the amount in 2004 as officials borrowed to plug deficits.  While the outlook for 2014 deteriorated, the projection for
fiscal 2013 improved. The Planning Board estimated the economy
declined 0.03 percent last year, compared with an earlier
projection of a 0.4 percent drop.  The commonwealth plans to sell as much as $1.2 billion of
sales-tax debt by Dec. 31 to help finance deficits. It may
postpone the issuance if borrowing costs are too high, Puerto
Rico administration officials said last month.  Puerto Rico debt has lost 15 percent this year through Oct.
31, more than seven times the decline in the broader municipal
market, Standard & Poor’s data show.  Puerto Rico general obligations maturing July 2041 traded
today with an average yield of 7.97 percent, the highest level
since Oct. 21, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It’s still down
from about 9.3 percent on Sept. 11, the highest since the bonds
were first sold in March 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  