-- Rand Weakens for Worst Stretch in Five Months on Trade Deficit
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-11-01T10:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/rand-weakens-for-worst-stretch-in-five-months-on-trade-deficit.html
The rand weakened for a sixth day
against the dollar, the longest stretch of losses in five
months, after South  Africa  posted a wider-than-estimated trade
deficit and before U.S. manufacturing data. Bond yields rose.  The  trade gap  in Africa’s biggest economy was 18.9 billion
rand ($1.9 billion) in September as strikes curbed car and
mining exports and oil imports increased, the South African
Revenue Service said yesterday. That was wider than the median
16.4 billion-rand estimate of 12 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing
index fell last month, a U.S. release today may show.  “The serial negative surprises in the trade data suggest
that the current-account deficit could take longer to adjust,”
Theuns de Wet, head of global markets research at Rand Merchant
Bank in Johannesburg, said in an e-mail today.  A strong U.S.
manufacturing number is “likely to fuel speculation of a
December Fed taper and weaken the rand further.”  The rand weakened 0.2 percent to 10.0658 per dollar by
11:46 a.m. in Johannesburg, bringing its loss this week to 2.4
percent, the worst among major currencies after the Swedish
krona, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on
benchmark bonds due December 2026 rose three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 8.08 percent, extending their worst
week since Aug. 16.  The U.S. ISM Manufacturing  gauge  rose to 55 last month from
September’s 56.2, which was the strongest since April 2011,
according to a Bloomberg survey. Readings above 50 indicate
expansion.  South Africa ’s purchasing managers  index  advanced to 50.7
in October, Kagiso Tiso Holdings in Johannesburg said today in a
report, compared with the 49.1 in the previous month.  The  Federal Reserve ’s Open Market Committee maintained its
$85 billion in monthly bond purchases this week that propelled
investors’ demand for emerging-market assets in countries such
as South Africa. The committee removed a sentence from its
previous policy statement saying tighter financial conditions
could slow an improvement in the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  