-- RBS Needs to Revamp Business-Lending Unit, Large Report Says
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-11-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/rbs-needs-to-revamp-business-lending-unit-large-report-says.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
needs to overhaul its lending practices to boost credit to small
and medium-sized businesses, according to a report commissioned
by the company.  RBS is failing to meet its own targets because of a lack of
coordination within the business, poorly trained staff who don’t
understand the bank’s lending criteria and are too risk averse
and blurred lines of responsibility, said former  Bank of England 
Deputy Governor Andrew Large in the report conducted with
consultant  Oliver Wyman .  “The bank has failed to meet its own SME lending targets,
partly because they were unrealistic and also because of
weaknesses in its lending operations,” Large said in the report
today. “RBS should look afresh at the manner in which it
delivers lending to SMEs, and make sure that the various
components of its offering to customers are aligned.”  U.K.  lenders , including 81 percent taxpayer-owned RBS, have
been criticized by the government for failing to maintain
lending to businesses since the 2008 financial crisis as they
boost capital reserves. The Bank of England earlier this year
extended its plan to provide cheap loans to companies and
consumers and make credit available for small firms to help
support the economy.  The bank will write to businesses setting out how much it
can lend them and reduce the amount of time a loan application
takes, Ross McEwan, chief executive officer of Edinburgh-based
RBS, said in a separate statement.  “The Large review shows there is significantly more we can
do to expand our lending,” McEwan, 56, said in the statement.
“We will address all the issues the report raises.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  