-- Romania Raises 1.7 Billion Lei in Biggest IPO on Record
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-11-01T08:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/romania-raises-1-7-billion-lei-in-biggest-ipo-on-record.html
Romania raised 1.7 billion lei ($518
million) from the sale of a minority stake in natural-gas
producer Romgaz SA, in the eastern European country’s biggest
initial public offering ever.  The government sold 57.8 million shares in the biggest gas
producer at a price of 30 lei per share, raising more than the
minimum 1.38 billion lei it had planned to secure, Energy
Minister Constantin Nita told reporters in Bucharest today. It
sold the shares directly through the Bucharest Stock Exchange
and through global depositary receipts in  London . The sale was 5
times oversubcribed.  “The interest for Romgaz was higher than we expected, and
even the sale managers had expected,” Energy Minister
Constantin Nita said at a press conference today in Bucharest.  The government needs to raise cash and ease the state’s
influence on the economy as it seeks to meet a pledge to the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union to sell the
shares by the end of November under its third consecutive accord
with the lenders.  Romania is joining  Poland  in selling state assets, after
the Polish state-owned railway Polskie Koleje Panstwowe SA
raised 1.42 billion zloty ($461 million) in the sale of its
cargo unit, that country’s largest IPO in almost a year.  Romania sold a minority stake in nuclear power generator
Nuclearelectrica SA in September as part of the 4 billion-euro
agreement with the international lenders.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Erste Group Bank AG, Banca
Comerciala Romana SA and Raiffeisen Capital & Investment SA
managed the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  