-- S&P 500 Has Longest Weekly Gain Since July Amid Earnings
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-11-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/s-p-500-has-longest-weekly-gain-since-july-amid-earnings.html
U.S.  stocks  rose for a fourth week,
the longest rally since July, as better-than-estimated corporate
earnings offset concern the  Federal Reserve  may reduce monetary
stimulus in coming months.  General Motors Co. jumped 5.1 percent as profit beat
analysts’ estimates. Expedia Inc. surged 19 percent as the
online travel agency’s third-quarter earnings exceeded
forecasts.  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  slumped 6.9 percent
after reporting an underwriting loss at its property-casualty
unit and saying it may miss some of its 2015 targets. Merck &
Co. slipped 2.8 percent after the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker
narrowed its full-year forecast.  The  S&P 500  increased 0.1 percent to 1,761.64 over the five
days, extending a 4.1 percent advance over the previous three
weeks. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  added 45.27 points, or
0.3 percent, to 15,615.55. U.S. equities finished the first 10
months of the year with the S&P 500 jumping 23 percent, the best
January-to-October performance since 1997. Both indexes reached
record highs on Oct. 29.  “We’re still seeing good earnings numbers coming out of
companies and that continues to supply a bid for stocks,” Bill Schultz, chief investment officer who oversees about $1.1
billion at McQueen Ball & Associates in Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania ,
said by phone. “The impetus going forward as we look at the
market - is it too expensive or too inexpensive? It’s probably
somewhere in the middle. So there is not a lot of reason to be
selling, but there is not a lot of reason to be aggressively
buying at this point.”  Stimulus Speculation  The Fed announced on Oct. 30 it would press on with $85
billion in monthly bond purchases, saying it needs to see more
evidence that the economy will continue to improve. Equities
retreated for two days as the central bank also said there were
signs of “underlying strength” in the economy, raising
speculation the Fed may begin to slow the pace of stimulus in
coming months.  Economists in a Bloomberg survey project that tapering will
begin in March, based on the median estimate. Fed Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  is pushing unprecedented accommodation into the
final months of his Fed chairmanship as he seeks to shield the
four-year economic expansion from the impact of higher borrowing
costs and October’s partial U.S. government shutdown.  Economic data were mixed during the week, with  consumer
confidence  and sales of previously owned homes dropping more
than forecast while manufacturing grew at a faster pace than
projected.  ‘No Guidepost’  “There could be a sense that if investors do believe we’re
in the later innings of stimulus, good news could be perceived
as bad news because maybe it accelerates the time the Fed
ultimately takes its foot off the accelerator,”  Jack Ablin , who
helps oversee $66 billion as chief investment officer at BMO
Private Bank, said by phone from  Chicago . “Given that there are
no guideposts, I don’t expect a lot of direction to the
market.”  Two of America’s best known investors are moving in
opposite directions in the stock market, with Laszlo Birinyi
predicting more gains as  David Einhorn  takes a more cautious
approach.  Holdings that profit if stocks gain at Einhorn’s Greenlight
Capital Re Ltd.’s exceeded short bets by 35 percentage points as
of Sept. 30, compared with about 42 percentage points three
months earlier, he said on an Oct. 31 conference call. Birinyi,
president of Birinyi Associates Inc., said the S&P 500 will
reach 1,820 by February and bought calls that profit from a
rally in the equity benchmark.  Equity Valuation  Central bank stimulus has helped the S&P 500 surge more
than 160 percent from its bear-market low in 2009. The benchmark
gauge is up 24 percent this year, poised for the best annual
gain since 2003. The rally pushed the S&P 500’s estimated  price-to-earnings ratio  to 15.9, the highest valuation in almost four
years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The market is clearly motivated by the Fed action,”  Uri Landesman , president of New York-based hedge fund Platinum
Partners, who helps manage about $1.3 billion, said by phone.
“Rather than focusing on the fact that the market eventually
has to stand on its own legs, the market is focusing on the fact
that the Fed is still pumping liquidity.”  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Volatility Index (VIX) , the
gauge of S&P 500 options prices known as the VIX, added 1.5
percent to 13.28. The measure is down 26 percent this year.  Six out of 10 S&P 500 main industries advanced. Telephone
and consumer-staples companies climbed more than 1.1 percent to
lead the gain.  GM, Expedia  GM (GM)  and AIG were among 126 companies that announced results
for the week. Of the 369 companies that have reported this
season, 75 percent exceeded analysts’ predictions for profit,
while 53 percent  beat  sales estimates, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed. Profits for members of the gauge probably
increased 4.1 percent in the third quarter as sales climbed 2.9
percent, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  GM climbed 5.1 percent to $37.39. The largest U.S.
automaker reported a profit that beat estimates as demand for
redesigned pickups and other models in  North America  made up for
losses in Europe and in Asia outside of China. The company’s
sales of cars and light trucks rose 16 percent last month,
topping analysts’ average estimate for a gain of 7.9 percent.  Expedia jumped 19 percent, the most since April 2012, to
$60.11. The company said profit was helped by more people using
the service to book hotel rooms and an increase in media and
advertising revenue.  Xylem Inc., the water company whose pumps helped clean
tunnels in  New York  flooded by  Hurricane Sandy , surged 15
percent to $33.22 after the company raised its earnings
forecast. The weekly gain was the biggest since the company was
spun off from ITT Corp. in October 2011.  Laying Groundwork  AT&T (T)  Inc. rallied 3 percent to $36.24. Executives at the
largest U.S. phone company are laying the groundwork internally
for a potential takeover of Vodafone Group Plc next year,
mapping out a strategy for a complex deal with Europe’s largest
mobile carrier, people familiar with the situation said.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. rose 7.6 percent to $52.48 after
releasing trial results that showed its experimental drugs for
 lung cancer  and rheumatoid arthritis helped patients.  AIG slumped 6.9 percent to $48.28. The insurer’s property-casualty division, its largest, reported a third-quarter decline
in sales. Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  said he would
stop providing specifics on progress toward the company’s so-called aspirational goals, such as a  target  of 10 percent return
on equity for 2015.  Merck slipped 2.8 percent to $45.23 for the biggest retreat
in the Dow. The second-biggest U.S. drugmaker said profit for
2013 will be $3.48 to $3.52 a share as the company continues an
overhaul of its sales and research operations. The previous
outlook was for $3.45 to $3.55.  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  plunged 17 percent, the most since
October 2011, to $18.27. The world’s largest door-to-door
cosmetics seller posted a third-quarter net  loss  and said
possible fines related to foreign bribery probes may materially
hurt earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  