-- Salmond’s Pensions Post-Independence Defy Actuaries
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-11-01T10:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/salmond-s-pensions-post-independence-defy-actuaries-u-k-credit.html
As Scotland’s nationalists dangle the
prospect of a shorter working life than in  England  ahead of next
year’s referendum on independence, demographers say the numbers
behind their proposal don’t add up.  The semi-autonomous government in Edinburgh, run by First
Minister Alex Salmond’s Scottish National Party, pledged to
review U.K. plans to bring forward an increase in the state
pension age to 67. The Institute and Faculty of Actuaries said
in a  report  last week there was a danger of using the retirement
age as a “populist tool” to postpone “difficult decisions.”  “Forcing people to work longer is not popular,” Robert
Wright, an adviser on demographics to the U.K.’s  Office for
National Statistics , said in a phone interview. “Telling people
that working longer won’t happen with independence is pure
politics. Even for the believers it is not believable.”  Salmond and his party will set out their vision for an
independent  Scotland  in a policy paper this month, with polls
showing they need to convince at least all the undecided voters
to stand a chance of prevailing.  While policies like free higher education and prescriptions
set Scotland apart from the rest of the U.K., the proposal on
pensions bucks a worldwide trend.  Expert Commission  The U.K., Germany, the Netherlands,  France , Ireland,  Italy ,
Spain, the  U.S.  and Australia plan to lift the state pension age
by at least two years over the next 10-15 years in a bid to curb
rising costs as people live longer. In Scotland, the demographic
focus should instead be on increasing the working population and
contributions to tax revenue, the government said.  The number of people above state pension age will increase
more slowly in Scotland by 2035 compared with the U.K. as a
whole, by 26 percent instead of 28 percent, the Scottish
government said in an e-mailed response to questions on Oct. 15
ahead of the SNP’s party conference.  “The reason we want an expert commission to look at the
move to 67 is that average Scottish life expectancy is lower
than the average U.K. life expectancy, so the number of years
receiving state pension is lower in Scotland,” it said.  As well as the pensions review, Salmond told his party on
Oct. 19 that an independent Scotland would give workers a higher
minimum wage and cut energy bills. Other areas of the debate
include keeping the pound, revenue from the North Sea oil
industry and the division of debt. U.K. 10-year bonds yielded
2.61 percent today after topping 3 percent in September.  Independence Argument  The Scottish government will unveil its proposals for how
an independent Scotland would work on Nov. 26, less than 10
months before the vote on breaking away from the rest of the
U.K. Support for independence is about 20 percentage points
behind staying part of the 306-year-old union, according to TNS
BMRB and YouGov Plc polls in the past month.  In the most recent test at the ballot box since trouncing
the opposition Labour Party in May 2011 Scottish elections, the
SNP lost a vote in Dunfermline last week as politicians
scrambled to save a nearby petrochemicals plant from closure.  Voters aged between 35 and 59, who would benefit first from
any deferral of the rise in state pension age, are most in favor
of independence, a survey by YouGov last month showed. Polls by
Ipsos Mori and TNS BMRB didn’t reflect that.  The U.K. spends less on retirement benefits as a proportion
of its economy than most countries in the 28-member European
Union, according to European Commission’s  2012 Ageing Report .  Off Trend  Other countries already carried out the kind of
reassessment the Scottish government is proposing and concluded
that the state pension age was lagging behind the increase in
life expectancy, said Martin Potter, chairman of the Scottish
board of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.  “It would be very surprising if the demographic
progression in Scotland is very different from other European
countries,” Potter said on Oct. 22. “They would have to find
money from elsewhere or make savings.”  Jim Osborne, a former pension fund trustee at Allianz SE’s
U.K. unit and a supporter of independence, meanwhile said he had
his “doubts” that delaying a higher pension age is affordable.  The U.K. originally proposed lifting the age to 67 between
2034 and 2036. It now plans to accelerate that by eight years,
in line with target dates in  Germany  and the U.S.  The Scottish government so far has committed to an increase
to 66 due to take effect in 2020. The SNP would also guarantee,
until at least 2021, to link an independent Scotland’s state
pension payments with average earnings, inflation, or 2.5
percent, whichever is the higher.  Let’s Look  The  Scottish Parliament  in Edinburgh, restarted in 1999 as
the U.K. devolved power, has control over transportation,
health, education and justice, while the government in London
oversees the economy, defense, foreign policy and welfare
including pensions. The SNP is campaigning to win full autonomy.  “If there is a potential, however small, to delay raising
the age we should look at it,” said Rachel Holmes, a lecturer
in accountancy and finance at  Edinburgh Napier University .
“Otherwise we are stuck with the U.K. perspective.”  Life expectancy for women in Scotland is 1.8 years lower
than the U.K.’s and for men the gap is 2.5 years, according to
the Scottish government’s  Pensions in an Independent Scotland 
paper published last month. The proposals from the government in
 London  failed to take into account that lower socio-economic
groups had a shorter life expectancy, it said.  The divide is due more to a higher death rate among younger
people, said Wright, a professor of economics at Strathclyde
University. Once Scots reached the age of 65, the gap was little
more than a year for both men and women, he said.  “Scotland seems to be doing the opposite of every other
rich country with an aging population,” said Wright. “Raising
the age of entitlement to the state pension is not the silver
bullet for population aging. It is almost political suicide.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  