-- Sanusi Says Balance Is Important for Governor Successor
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-11-01T14:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/sanusi-says-balance-is-important-for-governor-successor.html
Nigeria ’s central bank Governor
Lamido Sanusi said having the right balance in leadership at the
institution is more important than whether his successor is an
external or internal appointment.  Ensuring the governor and the four deputies are able to
manage the various mandates of the central bank is key, Sanusi
said in an interview today in Oslo, where he was attending a
Norway-Africa business conference.  “It could be from within or outside, it doesn’t really
matter,” said Sanusi. “What’s important is the institution and
to have the right balance.”  Sanusi, 52, said in March he won’t renew his contract when
it expires in June 2014. He helped to clean up the banking
industry during a debt crisis in 2009 and has left  interest
rates  at a record high for almost two years to bolster the
currency and keep  inflation  under control.  Vetiva Capital Management Ltd., a brokerage based in
Nigeria’s commercial capital of Lagos, said on Oct. 28 that the
four deputy central bank governors and Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede,
chief executive officer of  Access Bank Plc (ACCESS) , are the front-runner
candidates to succeed Sanusi. The governor’s current deputies
are: Sarah Alade, Suleiman Barau, Tunde Lemo and Kingsley Moghalu.  “If you have someone, say, with a strong economic
theoretical background you need to make sure at the deputy
governor level you’ve got strong banking supervisory, regulatory
oversight background,” Sanusi said. “If it’s a banker that’s
more into operations and financial stability then you make sure
that you’ve got enough economists to complement it. It’s very
collegial.”  Sanusi said he informed President Goodluck Jonathan in
2011, two years after his appointment, that he would leave at
the end of his term. He said he plans to notify Jonathan in
writing about three months before he leaves and the president
will then be free to announce his successor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  