-- Senators Seeking More Iran Sanctions Resist Bid for Delay
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-11-01T04:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/senators-seeking-more-iran-sanctions-resist-bid-for-delay.html
Two top Senate backers of added U.S.
sanctions against Iran said the Obama administration failed to
persuade them to put their legislative push on hold during
international efforts to negotiate curbs on the Islamic
republic’s nuclear program.  Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat who heads
the Foreign Relations Committee, and Senator  Mark Kirk , an
 Illinois  Republican, said they intend to push forward with new
economic sanctions after emerging from a closed-door briefing
yesterday with Vice President  Joe Biden , Secretary of State  John Kerry  and Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew.  “I’d have to hear something far more substantive from what
I heard today to dissuade me” from acting on legislation,
Menendez told reporters.  Administration officials have called for a pause in
expanding sanctions while the U.S. and allies test Iran’s
willingness to take a new tack under President Hassan Rouhani,
who took office in August sounding themes of moderation.  Iran 
held two days of talks with six world powers in Geneva in
October on its nuclear program, and consultations are scheduled
to resume in the Swiss city this month.  Asked after yesterday’s meeting at the Capitol whether he
was concerned Congress would pass sanctions despite the
administration’s pleas, Biden said, “No, I’m not concerned.
Sanctions are tough.”  Since U.S. and European Union oil sanctions went into
effect in July 2012, Iran’s oil exports have dropped by half and
inflation almost doubled in two years, reaching 40 percent in
September. The majority of Iran’s government revenue comes from
crude-oil sales.  ‘Long Rope-a-Dope’  Kerry made a public case for negotiations with Iran in
public comments last month. He said failing to test whether Iran
is sincere would amount to “diplomatic malpractice of the worst
order.”  Kirk said he saw no prospect of success from the talks in
Geneva. “It just seems a long rope-a-dope,” Kirk said.  “Sanctions are the only way to prevent a war,” Kirk said.
“Just leave it in place and let the Iranians run out of money.
They might miss a payment to Hezbollah,” he added, referring to
the Lebanon-based Shiite militia that the U.S.,  Israel  and the
European Union consider a terrorist group.  Other senators expressed a willingness to hold off, at
least for a few months.  “I’ve supported every sanctions bill in the Senate, but
I’m mindful of the fact that maybe these discussions will bear
fruit,” said Senator Mike Johanns, a Nebraska Republican.  ‘Good Case’  Senator  Dean Heller , a Nevada Republican, said the
administration was “making a good case” for delaying new
legislation, although he hasn’t reached a decision on how he
would vote.  A sanctions bill that passed the Republican-controlled
House, 400-20, in July would subject more goods and services to
sanctions and authorize the president to impose penalties on
foreign entities that maintain commercial ties with Iran.  A related bill introduced by Kirk would limit Iran’s access
to foreign currency by requiring the president to impose
sanctions on foreign banks that knowingly conduct transactions
in non-local currency, particularly euros, for the Central Bank
of Iran and other designated entities based there. Kirk said his
legislation would target “offshore accounts by Iranians, about
$70 billion worth.”  The measures have yet to be taken up by the Senate Banking
Committee, and that panel’s chairman, Senator  Tim Johnson , a
South Dakota Democrat, said he hasn’t decided whether to act.  ‘Be Thoughtful’  Kirk said there are enough votes in the Banking Committee
to advance sanctions legislation. “I think we would win, which
is why there was so much pressure in there,” Kirk said of the
administration briefing.  Menendez said he would use any legislative means available
to push more sanctions, including attaching the measure to the
annual defense authorization bill.  Senator  Dick Durbin  of Illinois, the chamber’s second-ranking Democrat, told reporters earlier yesterday that Congress
should consider the administration’s request for a delay because
“after 10 years of this bitter confrontation” it “makes sense
for us to be thoughtful about how and when we respond to the
Iranians.”  Even so, Durbin said, any request for a delay should be
accompanied by a public statement from the administration about
“the current status” of negotiations, “an indication about
how long they are asking Congress to pause before initiating new
sanctions” and “what we will view as a good-faith effort on
the part of the Iranians.”  The U.S. and allies are demanding curbs on Iran’s nuclear
work, which they say is probably a cover for a weapons program.
Iran says it has a right to enrich uranium and is interested in
using nuclear technology solely for peaceful, civilian purposes.  “Sanctions have hurt the Iranian people,” Iran’s deputy
foreign minister, Abbas Araghchi, said in an interview last
month. “But it’s not so severe that it will make us give up our
rights to nuclear power.”  The House-passed sanctions bill is H.R. 850.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  