-- Senator Paul Predicts Yellen to Win Confirmation to Fed
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-11-01T04:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/senator-paul-predicts-yellen-to-win-confirmation-to-fed.html
Senator Rand Paul, a Kentucky
Republican, predicted Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Janet Yellen
will win U.S. Senate confirmation to succeed  Ben S. Bernanke  as
central bank chairman.  Asked if Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, has the votes to get Yellen confirmed, Paul said, “in
all likelihood, yes.” He spoke in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend.  Yellen yesterday began meeting with senators in preparation
for a Nov. 14 nomination hearing by the Senate Banking
Committee. She needs to win the panel’s approval before her
nomination advances to the Senate for a confirmation vote.
Bernanke’s term expires on Jan. 31.  “We had a nice meeting, a courteous meeting,” Senator
 Richard Shelby  of Alabama, the banking panel’s No. 2 Republican,
said after talking with Yellen, 67. He said he asked “a lot of
questions about the role of the Fed,” and didn’t commit to
supporting her nomination.  Paul, 50, has pledged to hold up the nomination until
securing a vote on legislation requiring a public audit of the
central bank, including decision-making on monetary policy.  “I want to draw attention to the fact that audit the Fed
has been held hostage by Senator Reid for three years,” Paul
said.  “Apparently  Janet Yellen ’s been in favor of transparency
at the Fed,” he said. “That’s all we’re asking for is an open
audit.”  NSA Spying  Paul also addressed allegations that U.S. intelligence
efforts have included listening to phone conversations of
foreign leaders such as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , saying
the National Security Agency went too far.  “The definition of overreach is everything the NSA has
been doing over the last several years,” Paul said.  It’s conceivable, though unlikely, the agency is tapping
President  Barack Obama ’s phone, Paul said.  “I say that a bit facetiously, but at the same time, the
warrants that are coming out of the FISA court are so expansive
and without limit and non-specific that they apply to all
cellphones,” Paul said, referring to the U.S. Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Act. “So conceivably the NSA could be
spying on the president’s phone.”  Tea Party  On the struggle within his Republican Party, where
emboldened Tea Party activists are seeking to oust senators who
voted to end a 16-day partial federal government shutdown this
month, Paul said the competition among candidates is good.  At least seven Republican senators are facing primary
challengers in the 2014 midterm elections, including Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky,  Lindsey Graham  of
 South Carolina ,  Thad Cochran  of Mississippi and  Lamar Alexander 
of Tennessee, all of whom voted to open the government.  “I don’t think it hurts,” Paul said of the challenges.  “I’m a big believer in the free market,” he said. “That
means competition’s good. It makes us all better.”  Paul, elected in 2010 with support from the small
government Tea Party movement, opposed the measure to end the
shutdown that had started Oct. 1.  While he isn’t backing any of the primary challengers
against incumbents, Paul said the rivalry “makes us hone our
message better, makes us present it better.”  Father’s Effort  Paul said his legislation to audit the Fed probably
wouldn’t win the support of 60 senators, the number of votes
needed to force a vote on the Senate floor. A companion bill
passed the House of Representatives last year with a vote of
327-98. The effort was a cause pushed by his father,  Ron Paul , a
Republican and former U.S. representative from Texas.  Bernanke has repeatedly said the legislation would expose
Fed policy making to political pressure and jeopardize  the
central bank’s  independence.  “If they’re not doing anything untoward, there should be
no reason why we couldn’t look at it,” Paul said.  The audit could also investigate whether it’s too easy for
officials to move between Fed jobs and  Wall Street , he said.  “It’s an issue that 70 percent of the American people
don’t think it’s right for a guy to come out of the Treasury and
make $160 million on Wall Street the very next year and then go
back into Treasury the next year,” Paul said.  “This revolving door, we should at least know what the
policy is and whether anybody’s getting rich off of that
policy,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  