-- Shinsei Bank Falls on Loans to Crime Organizations: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2013-11-01T07:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/shinsei-bank-falls-after-president-reveals-loans-to-crime-groups.html
Shinsei Bank Ltd. (8303)  fell in Tokyo
trading after saying it had transactions with criminal
organizations, the latest revelation of ties between Japanese
banks and gangsters.  The  shares  closed 0.9 percent lower at 227 yen after
declining as much as 4.8 percent. President Shigeki Toma said
yesterday that his company’s Shinsei Trust & Banking Co. unit
had more than 10 transactions with so-called antisocial groups.  Japanese authorities and politicians are scrutinizing
banks’ relations with yakuza crime syndicates after regulators
ordered  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  to improve compliance for
failing to break off loans to gangs. Shinsei discovered its
transactions in an internal investigation following the
Financial Services Agency’s action against Mizuho, Toma said.  “The market is reacting over the short term on concern
about Shinsei’s reputation risk,” Yoshinobu Yamada, a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said by phone today. “The
impact on the company will probably be limited.”  Shinsei Trust lent the cash through  Aplus Financial Co. (8589) , a
consumer credit company owned by another unit, Shinsei Financial
Co., Toma said. Eiji Ootaka, a Tokyo-based spokesman for
Shinsei, confirmed by telephone today that Toma made the remarks
at a news briefing yesterday in Tokyo.  Aplus  tumbled  6.8 percent, the most in three months, to 150
yen at the close. The benchmark  Topix Index (TPX)  slid 0.9 percent.  Loan Structure  The structure of the loans is similar to those involving
Mizuho,  Japan ’s third-biggest bank by market value, which made
230 transactions valued at about 200 million yen ($2 million)
through its  Orient Corp. (8585)  consumer credit affiliate. Mizuho this
week outlined plans to improve internal controls and cut pay for
executives including President Yasuhiro Sato.  In a business improvement report to the FSA on Oct. 28,
Mizuho said it will bolster sharing of its database on crime
groups with Orient to prevent further transactions. Japan’s
banking association said last month that it’s considering
exchanging information with consumer credit firms.  The lower house financial affairs committee plans to
question Mizuho officials in the week starting Nov. 11 as part
of discussions on the crime-loan issue in parliament, ruling
Liberal Democratic Party lawmaker Isshu Sugawara told  Bloomberg
News  today.  The FSA said this week that it will inspect the nation’s
three largest lenders, including  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. (8306)  and Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. to determine
whether their banking units are complying with rules to curb
transactions with crime groups. The reviews are scheduled to
start on Nov. 5.  Financial Services Minister Taro Aso said this week that
his agency will examine Mizuho’s improvement plan before
determining any further action against the bank. He said he
would also take into account the findings of a panel of lawyers
commissioned by Mizuho, who said this week that the bank didn’t
intend to mislead FSA investigators.  Mizuho, which initially told the FSA that only compliance
officials knew of the loans, last month said that top managers
at the time were also aware of the transactions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shingo Kawamoto in  Tokyo  at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  