-- Shunfeng to Buy Suntech Unit for $492 Million Makeover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-01T16:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/shunfeng-to-buy-suntech-unit-for-492-million-makeover.html
Shunfeng Photovoltaic International
Ltd. (1165) , a Chinese solar company owned in part by Cheng Kin Ming,
plans to buy the main unit of what was once the world’s largest
photovoltaic maker for 3 billion yuan ($492 million).  Jiangsu Shungfeng Photovoltaic Technology Co. agreed to buy
Wuxi Suntech Power Co., according to a statement Shunfeng made
to the Hong Kong stock exchange today. The unit of  Suntech Power
Holdings Co. (STP)  was pulled into bankruptcy in March and will use
the proceeds to pay expenses and debts it owes.  The purchase will add to Cheng’s control of  China ’s solar
industry, which is struggling to cope with a plunge in prices of
photovoltaic panels that gutted margins of the major
manufacturers.  Cheng owns 30 percent of Shunfeng through a Hong Kong
investment company called Fulai Investments Ltd., which also
owns a 25 percent stake in  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , another PV
manufacturer that’s burdened with $2.7 billion in debt.  Shunfeng Photovoltaic, which makes solar cells and panels,
has been purchasing solar energy assets this year. It said in
July it will take a 95 percent stake in Hareon Solar Technology
Co.’s solar farms, which generate a combined 479 megawatts.
Later, it agreed to buy 110 megawatts of projects from Jetion
Solar (China) Co. and Haiwei (Xinjiang) New Energy Co.  ‘Best Option’  “This is possibly the best option for Wuxi Suntech,” Wang Xiaoting, a Beijing-based analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, said by phone. “Other bidders won’t offer better bids.
Shunfeng could retain most of Suntech management including key
research employees. The acqusition is mainly for brand and
research people.”  Jiangsu Shunfeng’s bid was chosen over that of state-owned
Wuxi Guolian Development (Group) Co. after the administrator of
the main unit of Suntech Power Holdings evaluated the offerings,
according to an Oct. 9 statement posted on the Wuxi municipal
government website. Wuxi Guolian is the development arm of the
city of Wuxi, whcih is outside  Shanghai .  Shunfeng has paid a deposit of 500 million  yuan  ($82
million) to the administrator of Wuxi Suntech, it said Oct. 9.
The sale agreement, dated Oct. 24, guarantees a payment of a
further $25 million by Wuxi Suntech to Wuxi Guolian withing
three months of completion.  The agreement requires the approval of shareholders and of
the Wuxi Intermediate People’s Court, which is overseeing the
bankruptcy proceedings of Wuxi Suntech.  Suntech Debts  Wuxi Suntech said it has 10.7 billion yuan of debt, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported on Aug. 14, citing Yang
Erguan, a representative at its insolvency and restructuring
administrator group.  Suntech Power was the world’s biggest solar panel maker
when it defaulted on a $541 million equity-linked bond in March.
That forced the Wuxi Suntech unit into bankruptcy proceedings in
China. Holders of those bonds asked the  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
the Southern District of New York to push Suntech into Chapter 7
proceedings, and the company on Oct. 31 said it would fight that
effort.  Shunfeng said it plans to fund the acquisition by raising
debt or capital or by forming a joint venture or partnership. It
may also use its own resources or a combination of all the
options.  Shunfeng said Oct. 22 it completed a placement of 400
million new shares at HK$2.80 apiece. Peace Link Services Ltd.
is the biggest shareholder in the company with a 23.6 percent
stake after the placement. Peace Link is wholly owned by
Faithsmart Ltd. which is in turn wholly owned by Cheng Kin Ming.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  