-- Singapore News Site Hacked After ‘Anonymous’ Warns of Attacks
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-11-01T03:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/singapore-news-site-hacked-after-anonymous-warns-of-attacks.html
A group called Anonymous hacked a
website owned by  Singapore ’s biggest newspaper publisher, having
warned earlier it will mount cyber attacks on the government
over its online media licensing framework.  A hacker in the group that goes by the name the Messiah
posted on  Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. (SPH) ’s Straits Times website,
saying the newspaper distorted its words by writing that
Anonymous is at war with Singapore instead of the government. A
video uploaded on the YouTube website this week showed a person
in a  Guy Fawkes  mask demanding Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s
government reconsider its Internet regulations.  Singapore from June 1 required websites that regularly
publish news on the city state to be licensed and pay a S$50,000
($40,200) bond, to be forfeited on the publication of
“prohibited content” that “undermines racial or religious
harmony.” Yahoo! Inc.’s Singapore news website was among an
initial list of 10 that was subject to the rules, which the
government said would mean news sites are regulated in the same
manner as other media.  “We demand you reconsider the regulations of your
framework or we will be forced to go to war with you,”
according to a computer-generated voice on the YouTube video.
“For every time you deprive a citizen his right to information,
we will cost you financial loss by aggressive cyber intrusion.”  Singapore’s government agencies were put on alert, the
 Straits Times  reported today. The group’s the Messiah also
claimed responsibility for hacking the website of the Ang Mo Kio
Town Council this week, the municipal body of Lee’s
constituency.  Singapore Press Holdings has taken affected blogs off the
Straits Times website after a section of the site was hacked
earlier today, the company said in an e-mailed statement. A
police report had been made, the company said.  Anonymous has sent similar YouTube messages to governments
including the Philippines and the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  