-- Slim Forsaking Dutch Dream for Brazil Lifts Bonds: Mexico Credit
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-11-01T16:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/slim-forsaking-dutch-dream-for-brazil-lifts-bonds-mexico-credit.html
America Movil SAB bondholders who
applauded the Mexican phone company’s decision to abort a
takeover in  Europe  are welcoming the alternative: investing in
Brazil, its  second-biggest  market, and paying down  debt .  The $1.6 billion of bonds due in 2022 issued by  Latin
America ’s biggest mobile-phone provider rose 3 percent last
month, the most among the region’s similar-rated non-financial
securities, which returned an average 1.9 percent. That reduced
the extra yield investors demand to hold America Movil instead
of  Mexico ’s government bonds to 0.41 percentage point, from a
record 0.78 percentage point on Sept. 18. Barclays Plc said the
gap may narrow 0.15 percentage point further.  Controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , America Movil is
regaining investor confidence with a plan to focus on the region
it  dominates , after the company’s offer in August to pay 7.2
billion euros ($9.9 billion) for Hague-based Royal KPN NV
threatened to trigger a debt downgrade. Chief Executive Officer
Daniel Hajj told investors Oct. 25 that the company will look at
acquisitions in Brazil, where sales accelerated last quarter to
the fastest since 2012.  Standard & Poor’s  raised the company’s
rating outlook to stable from negative last week.  “The fact that America Movil now has a Brazilian company
on its radar gives it a great objective,” said  Alejandro Hernandez , who helps oversee about 50 billion pesos at Grupo
Financiero Interacciones SA, including America Movil bonds.
“It’s viewed as a strategic purchase for them because it’s a
market they already know so well.”  Excess Cash  A representative in America Movil’s press office didn’t
reply to a request for comment.  The company plans to use most of its excess cash this
quarter to pay debt, Chief Financial Officer Carlos Garcia-Moreno said during an earnings call.  While Hajj didn’t rule out possible reinvestments in
Europe, he said consolidation in Brazil would be “good for
everybody.”  Telecom Italia SpA,  Italy ’s biggest phone company, is
seeking at least 9 billion euros for its controlling stake in
 Brazil ’s second-biggest carrier, Tim Participacoes SA, a person
with direct knowledge of the matter said last month. Telecom
Italia said in a statement that there’s no formal or informal
process ongoing for disposing of Tim stake.  America Movil is Brazil’s third-biggest wireless carrier,
with a 25 percent share of the market through its Claro brand.  Tim Speculation  Since Brazilian law doesn’t allow one company to control
more than 50 percent of the market or own more than one
operating license, America Movil may partner with  Telefonica SA (TEF) 
to split up Tim with its Brazilian competitor,  Oi SA (OIBR4) , according
to Madrid’s Interdin Bolsa analyst Borja Mijangos.  Slim could afford such a deal, Sanford C. Bernstein analyst
 Robin Bienenstock  wrote in an Oct. 17 note.  “America Movil was clear it remains open to acquisitions
in Europe and Latin America,”  Christopher Buck , a Barclays
analyst, wrote in the Oct. 25 report. “It was also clear the
company will use cash to pay debt and reduce leverage in the
short term,” he wrote, leaving “space for mild upside
potential.”  Moody’s Investors Service revised its outlook on America
Movil to stable from a review for possible downgrade in a
statement yesterday.  “We believe America Movil will continue to pursue its
growth strategy, which may include opportunistic M&A, in a
prudent manner,” Moody’s analyst Soummo Mukherjee said in the
statement, which confirmed its A2 rating.  Domestic Weakness  Investors are still concerned the company may seek to go
back to Europe, Madeleine King, a bond strategist at Credit
Suisse Group AG, said in a telephone interview from  London .  “People don’t have a good understanding of what  America
Movil ’s takeover strategy is,” King said. “Investors are
having to assume that there will be more deals to come, but not
really knowing what those deals are.”  The company is right to expand outside of Mexico as a weak
economy in its home market slows down subscriber growth,
Hernandez said. The company added 3.1 million mobile-phone
subscribers across the Americas in the third quarter, missing
the 4.3 million average estimate of five analysts polled by
Bloomberg.  “Brazil is looking great to America Movil right now,”
Hernandez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in Mexico City at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  