-- SNC-Lavalin to Study Sale of AltaLink Stake and IPO
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-11-01T21:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/snc-lavalin-posts-loss-on-infrastructure-european-restructuring.html
SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC)  will consider
selling all of its AltaLink unit as well as listing a minority
stake on the stock market, Chief Executive Officer Robert Card
said.  SNC has received a “tremendous volume of inbound calls”
from interested parties since saying Sept. 30 it had hired
Morgan Stanley and  Royal Bank of Canada  to help it explore
options for the power-transmission unit, Card said today on a
conference call. Even as it’s moving forward with the work
necessary to complete an initial public offering of a minority
stake, SNC will begin a “formal process” for the sale of 100
percent of AltaLink in mid-November, the CEO said.  “We will determine which of these alternatives to pursue
as both processes evolve based on the outcome that will generate
the maximum value for the company and our shareholders,” Card
said.  AltaLink could be worth C$10.44 to C$23.38 per SNC share,
or C$1.58 billion ($1.52 billion) to C$3.54 billion, Maxim Sytchev, an analyst with Dundee Capital Markets, said in an e-mail. He recommends investors buy SNC stock.  SNC,  Canada ’s biggest engineering and construction company,
gained 1.6 percent to C$44.52 today, its biggest single-day gain
since Oct. 1. The stock has gained 10 percent this year, beating
the 7.3 percent advance of Canada’s benchmark Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Composite Index.  AltaLink operates and maintains about 12,000 kilometers
(7,500 miles) of transmission lines and 280 substations in the
western Canadian province of  Alberta . The company, founded in
2002, owns more than half of Alberta’s transmission grid and
serves 85 percent of its population.  Regardless of which option is chosen, a transaction
involving AltaLink could be completed by the start of next
year’s fourth quarter, Card said today.  Card made the comments after SNC reported a third-quarter
loss and “challenging” projects in its backlog.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ; 