-- Sony Loses $2.2 Billion in Market Value After Forecast Cut
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-11-01T14:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/sony-loses-2-2-billion-in-market-value-after-hirai-forecast-cut.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  lost $2.2 billion in
market value today after Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  cut
his earnings forecast and posted a loss because of stalling
demand for Bravia TVs, Cyber-shot cameras and Hollywood movies.  The stock  slumped  11 percent in Tokyo trading, the biggest
drop in five years, after Hirai slashed his full-year net income
projection by 40 percent to 30 billion yen ($305 million). Sony
also unexpectedly posted a second-quarter loss, missing analyst
estimates for a return to profit. Moody’s Investors Service
Inc., meanwhile, threatened to cut Sony’s credit rating to junk.  Hirai, who took over amid four straight annual losses, cut
jobs and emphasized digital imaging, games and mobile devices in
an effort to win back sales from Apple Inc. and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  Instead, he lowered annual projections yesterday
for TVs, cameras, personal computers and video recorders as
Sony’s film unit lost money.  “It’s hard to picture earnings growth at Sony’s
electronics operation without a sight of conventional hardware
businesses bottoming out,”  Takashi Watanabe , a Tokyo-based
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst, said in a report today.
“Significant recovery hinges on whether the company can draft a
drastic reform plan.”  Watanabe cut his share price forecast 5.3 percent to 1,800
yen.  On Watch  Moody’s placed Sony’s Baa3 long-term senior unsecured bond
rating on review for a downgrade today, citing “the slow
progress being made in improving overall profitability.” Baa3
is Moody’s lowest investment-grade rating.  Even with  Japan ’s weaker yen, five of Sony’s nine divisions
posted operating losses in the second quarter. The company,
which rejected investor  Daniel Loeb ’s push for a partial sale of
its entertainment assets, is trying to recover from flops that
prompted criticism from the billionaire.  Sony fell to 1,668 yen in Tokyo, narrowing this year’s gain
to 74 percent, after the stock was cut to hold from buy by
Jefferies LLC analyst  Atul Goyal . Competitor Panasonic Corp.,
which doubled its forecast yesterday after paring phone and TV
operations, surged 6.2 percent.  “A year ago both of these companies needed radical
change,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , chief executive officer of Fukoku
Capital Management Inc. “Sony stuck with TVs and they probably
need to get out that business. Panasonic had its back to the
wall and they had no choice but to change.”  ‘After Earth’  Sony’s film studio stumbled in the summer box-office season
that runs from May to early September. Big-budget tentpoles
“After Earth,” with  Will Smith , and “White House Down,” with
 Channing Tatum  and Jamie Foxx, failed to connect with audiences.  Recent releases “Captain Phillips” and “Cloudy With a
Chance of Meatballs 2” have been well-received by audiences and
critics. Last month, subscription-streaming service Netflix Inc.
ordered a 13-episode series from Sony Pictures Television, by
the creators of the drama “Damages.”  Sony’s  net loss  totaled 19.3 billion yen in the three
months ended Sept. 30, compared with the 14.8 billion-yen
 average  profit of five analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company needs to cut costs and undertake “more
aggressive reform” of its product portfolio and entertainment
business,  Fitch Ratings  said in a statement today. Sony’s BB-credit rating, which is three levels below investment grade, may
be downgraded, it said.  ‘Planning Problem’  “Management has a planning problem,” said Junya Ayada, a
Tokyo-based analyst at Daiwa Securities Group Inc. “There is a
risk for a TV volume downswing even though the company has
already reduced its forecast.”  Sony is betting its Xperia Z1 handset, introduced in
September, will propel it to third place in the global
smartphone market, leaping from seventh and narrowing the gap
with Samsung and Apple. The phone features a 20.7-megapixel
camera and showcases Hirai’s strategy to boost internal
collaboration to make stronger products.  The company maintained its annual smartphone sales forecast
at 42 million while raising its projection for game consoles at
it prepares to release the flagship PlayStation 4 this month.  Sony is introducing the PS4 in the U.S. on Nov. 15, a week
before Microsoft Corp. releases its Xbox One. The Japanese
company expects sales of the PS4, priced for U.S. consumers at
$399, to reach 5 million units by March 31, compared with 3.55
million units sold in a similar period for the PS3.  In TVs, Sony is promoting ultra-high-definition Bravia sets
after regaining the No. 3 position in the market, according to
DisplaySearch. The company expects to sell 14 million liquid-crystal-display TVs this year, down from an earlier prediction
for 15 million.  “The TV market is mostly saturated while smartphones have
eroded demand for digital cameras, camcorders and game
players,” said Koki Shiraishi, an  analyst  at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. in  Tokyo .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  