-- Spanish Industry Told to Auction Unused Power During High Demand
-- B y   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 2013-11-01T15:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/spanish-industry-told-to-auction-unused-power-during-high-demand.html
Spain  passed a law to force some of
its biggest electricity consumers to auction power capacity they
don’t need rather than earn fixed prices in a move to limit
profit to those industrial users when demand is great.  The rules apply to consumers such as factories and
foundries that contract power from utilities at discounted
prices in exchange for agreeing to forgo usage in hours when
demand spikes in the system. The goal is to “guarantee” lower
electricity costs, according to the  legislation  published today.  “This creates market signals to guide when the system
needs to make adjustments,” Vicente Lopez-Ibor, chairman of
Estudio Juridico Internacional, a  law firm  in  Madrid 
specializing in energy, said today in an interview. He said it’s
likely that sellers will earn lower prices.  The government of Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , struggling
to revive growth in the euro-area’s fourth-biggest economy, is
revamping hundreds of electricity-system rules to cut production
costs. The government says that’s needed to curb price increases
to residents and businesses.  A sweeping package of regulations is planned by year-end
including eliminating traditional subsidies for wind and solar
farms and for industries like paper-pulp manufacturing or
smelters that may make heat and electricity simultaneously.  Clean energy plants also have priority selling in wholesale
markets over traditional power sources such as coal, natural gas
and nuclear, whose production declined an annual 12 percent in
the first nine months of 2013.  Spain’s power market over the last decade has failed to
keep costs near inflation. At the same time governments have
capped price increases to homes and small businesses.  $35 Billion Debt  That forced utilities to put up the money used to subsidize
power to consumers, building up a power-system debt of about 26
billion euros ($35 billion) currently, a liability for the
government.  The new law applies to customers that buy high-voltage
electricity in wholesale markets.  Spain’s new regulator, the Comision Nacional de los
Mercados & la Competencia, will supervise the auctions. The law
gave scant information on how that will work, Lopez-Ibor said.
“It needs a more explicit role, and more guidelines,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd White  in Madrid at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Coulter at 
 tcoulter@bloomberg.net  