-- Speedy Lunches Urged at SEC as Union Decries Time-Clock Watching
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-11-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/speedy-lunches-urged-at-sec-as-union-decries-time-clock-watching.html
Add the ability to eat quickly to the
list of skills needed to work at the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  In a dispute that has sent pangs of resentment -- and
perhaps hunger -- across the agency, the SEC’s union chief has
warned workers to keep lunch breaks to a half hour or risk being
disciplined as “absent without leave.”  “Despite the fact that most SEC employees are often told
that they may take an hour for lunch, technically, we are only
entitled to thirty minutes,” wrote Greg Gilman, president of
the  union , in an e-mail sent to SEC workers last week. “Do not
fall into the trap of believing that because you are a
‘professional’ the rules do not apply to you.”  Fueling the union’s angst is a new SEC plan to require the
use of security cards that record the times people enter and
exit the building in its offices across the country, a move
Gilman wrote would “substantially increase surveillance.” He
said that data from the system in place at the Washington
headquarters is increasingly used in cases against employees
accused of skipping out of work.  SEC officials said the worries are overblown. While the
security system does keep data on employees’ comings and goings,
the agency doesn’t check the information unless there is a
reasonable complaint that attendance violations are occurring,
said  John Nester , an SEC spokesman. Those tips come from both
managers and co-workers, he said.  Rocky Relations  Relations have been tense between the SEC’s management and
its union, which represents some 3,000 of the agency’s 4,000
employees. Gilman has also criticized a recent  decision  by
Chairman Mary Jo White to give added retirement and vacation
benefits only to managers and has accused the commission of
reneging on part of a student-loan repayment program.  A Government Accountability Office  report  in July described
agency workers as having “low morale” and a “distrust of
management.”  Gilman’s Oct. 24 note said the group, part of the National
Treasury Employees Union, is seeking the services of a federal
mediator to help resolve the matter.  “The ‘time-clock’ issue at headquarters has grown into a
festering problem,” he wrote, adding that it has “resulted in
a larger volume of high stakes discipline cases” against
attorneys, accountants and examiners. The practice also goes
against a deal the union negotiated with the SEC a decade ago
that  Washington  office security turnstiles wouldn’t be used for
“monitoring time and attendance,” Gilman wrote.  Now, to be on the safe side, he urged employees to take
precautions.  ‘Be Careful’  “Be careful not to take a walk to get coffee, even with
your supervisor,” he wrote. “A case may be built very easily
based upon these types of behaviors.”  The SEC said there hasn’t been an uptick in attendance
probes. Over the past year there have been a half dozen cases
where the security information was used as evidence and none of
them have been based on brief absences, such as coffee breaks,
Nester said.  As for lunches, Nester said it is true that the current
union bargaining contract calls for only a 30-minute daily
break. Even though it is not in the agreement, all workers are
permitted two 15-minute breaks as well, he said.  “There has been no change to our longstanding agreement
with the union on this issue,” said Nester, who declined to
comment on the specifics of Gilman’s e-mail.  Gilman didn’t return calls requesting comment.  Not all of White’s interactions with the union have been
troubled. In July, she and Gilman issued a joint statement
lauding a new collective bargaining agreement they negotiated.  The contract, set to go into effect shortly, could help
tamp down the lunch controversy: One of its provisions would
allow some employees to telecommute for as many as five days a
week from home -- where presumably there are no time clocks
installed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 