-- Starwood to Spin Off Home-Rental Division Into New REIT
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-11-01T20:32:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/starwood-to-spin-off-home-rental-division-into-new-reit.html
Starwood Property Trust Inc. (STWD) , a real
estate investment trust with access to capital, lacked in-house
management for its single-family rental homes. Waypoint Real
Estate Group, one of the first large rental-house investors, was
stymied this year when it tried raise money by going public. Now
the two companies are getting together.  “They have the operating engine for us to reach our
objectives,” Starwood Property Chief Executive Officer Barry Sternlicht said in a telephone interview. “With Waypoint, we’ll
have best-in-class management that has capability proven to get
to scale.”  Starwood Property will spin off its single-family rental
unit into a REIT headed by Waypoint’s management division, which
is being acquired in the deal. The new company, Starwood
Waypoint Residential Trust, held $750 million in 4,268 homes and
nonperforming loans on 1,549 properties as of Sept. 30, Starwood
Property said in a statement yesterday.  Wall Street-backed investors have been racing to buy houses
as  prices , which fell as much as 35 percent from their 2006
peak, are rising at their fastest pace in seven years. Demand
for rental homes is growing from millions of households that
went through  foreclosure  or can’t qualify for a mortgage.  The new REIT will receive $100 million in cash from its
parent, a $400 million line of credit and no debt, which will
position it to be the second-largest publicly traded single-family rental REIT by portfolio value, Sternlicht said.  ‘Moby-Dick’  “We’re buying $50 million to $60 million homes a month and
the baby is getting a little large -- like Moby-Dick,” he said
in the interview yesterday.  Sternlicht, 52, will be chairman of the new company, which
he expects to begin trading publicly on the  New York  Stock
Exchange under the ticker SWAY in February. Gary Beasley and
Doug Brien, Waypoint’s current co-CEOs, will hold the same
titles at the Starwood Waypoint.  The spinoff will benefit Starwood Property, because it
sharpens the company’s focus on commercial real estate,
according to Daniel Altscher, an analyst with FBR Capital
Markets & Co. who has an outperform rating on the REIT’s shares.  “This is a great transaction for Starwood shareholders,”
he wrote in a note to investors today.  Starwood Property rose 2.2 percent to $26.25, a five-month
high, at the close in New York.  Distressed Properties  Sternlicht, whose Greenwich, Connecticut-based Starwood
Capital Group has $26.3 billion under management, began
investing in distressed real estate after the 1980s savings-and-loan crisis. Starwood Property is managed by a Starwood Capital
affiliate.  Waypoint, an Oakland, California-based landlord with about
5,000 properties, filed for an initial public offering as a REIT
in May, just as investor interest in housing-related stocks
suffered following a spike in  mortgage rates . The new company is
a way for Waypoint to go public using Starwood’s strength as a
source for capital, Beasley said.  “We’ve always wanted to find a way to build a big
platform,” he said in a telephone interview. “Really, the only
thing that’s been missing for us is capital.”  Beasley and Sternlicht declined to say how much Starwood
paid for Waypoint. Waypoint will continue to manage its
properties, which are owned by 11 different funds, after the
acquisition, Beasley said.  Shares Decline  Shares of three publicly traded single-family rental REITs
-- American Homes 4 Rent, the largest publicly traded house REIT
with 20,000 homes, American Residential Properties Inc. and
Silver Bay Realty Trust Corp. -- are trading below their initial
prices.  “Our bet here is that the public market is wrong,”
Sternlicht said. “Long-term we can create in-scale, lasting
assets in the public market that will pay a current yield higher
than those of other REITs and will have home price appreciation
at least equivalent to that in other commercial real estate.”  Private-equity firms,  hedge funds  and REITs have raised
more than $20 billion in the past two years to acquire as many
as 200,000 rental homes.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the largest
landlord with about $7.5 billion spent on 40,000 houses, started
shopping the first-ever U.S. bonds backed by rental homes to
investors this week.  Waypoint started in 2009 and developed software and
management that made it attractive to Starwood, according to
Sternlicht. The landlord has “techno wizards” who have
developed systems to value properties being considered for
acquisition and manage them more efficiently than Starwood’s
current set-up, which relies on outside companies, he said.  “I knew to go to  Florida  and I knew more or less where we
wanted to go,” Sternlicht said. Waypoint “can tell me what
street I should buy in  Orlando .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  