-- German Stocks Retreat From Record as Wacker Chemie Drops
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-11-01T17:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/stocks-in-germany-are-little-changed-before-u-s-data.html
German stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark DAX Index from an all-time high, as stronger-than-forecast U.S. manufacturing growth fueled speculation the
Federal Reserve will scale back stimulus.  Wacker Chemie AG  dropped 3.6 percent after Citigroup Inc.
downgraded Europe’s largest producer of polysilicon. EON SE,
Germany’s biggest utility, retreated for a third day as
Citigroup added the shares to its least-preferred list.
Volkswagen AG, Europe’s biggest automaker, climbed 0.7 percent
to the highest price since at least 1992.  The  DAX  declined 0.3 percent to 9,007.83 at the close of
trading in Frankfurt, after rising to a record yesterday. The
gauge has still gained 0.3 percent this week as Volkswagen
rallied 6.8 percent on better-than-estimated third-quarter
earnings. The broader HDAX Index slipped 0.2 percent today.  “The manufacturing data in the U.S. was stronger than
expected,”  James Butterfill , who helps manage about $44 billion
as head of global equity strategy at Coutts & Co. in London,
wrote in an e-mail. “This could be detrimental to equities as
the market prices chances of an earlier taper. We continue to
believe it will be in the latter part of the first quarter of
2014, providing support for equities in the last quarter.”  The Institute for Supply Management’s U.S. factory  index 
increased to 56.4 in October, the highest since April 2011, from
56.2 a month earlier. The median forecast in a Bloomberg  survey 
of 83 economists was 55. Readings above 50 indicate growth.  Fed Policy  The Federal Open Market Committee maintained its monthly
bond purchases at $85 billion this week and said it will wait
for more evidence of sustained improvement before paring
stimulus measures. The odds for the Fed to start reducing bond
purchases in January rose to 45 percent from 25 percent before
the statement, Citigroup Inc. said. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg Oct. 17-18 predicted the Fed would wait until March to
begin the cuts.  China’s official manufacturing gauge rose more than
forecast to the highest level in 18 months. The  Purchasing
Managers’ Index  advanced to 51.4 in October, from 51.1 a month
earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation
of Logistics and Purchasing said in a report. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists called for 51.2.  Stock markets in Austria and Luxembourg are closed today
for All Saints Day. The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies was 37 percent lower than the average of the
last 30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wacker Downgrade  Wacker Chemie  dropped 3.6 percent to 66.77 euros after
Citigroup downgraded the shares to sell from neutral. The
brokerage cut its profit estimates for the company, citing the
outlook for the Siltronic unit, slower margin recovery in its
chemicals businesses and a lower polysilicon earnings.  EON retreated 0.4 percent to 13.40 euros as Citigroup added
the stock to its least-preferred list, replacing RWE AG,
Germany’s second-biggest utility. RWE declined 0.9 percent to
26.96 euros.  Volkswagen  preferred shares increased 0.7 percent to 188.45
euros, a fourth day of gains.  K+S AG, Europe’s biggest potash producer, advanced 2.2
percent to 19.20 euros. OAO Uralkali, the world’s largest
producer of the crop nutrient, said it expects global demand for
the chemical to climb to the highest for at least a decade next
year as a decline in prices ends a slowdown in sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  