-- Stocks Cap Biggest Rally in Two Years to Beat Bonds, Commodities
-- B y   L u   W a n g ,   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-11-01T00:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/stocks-cap-biggest-rally-in-two-years-to-beat-bonds-commodities.html
Global equities completed the biggest
back-to-back monthly gain in almost two years, beating all other
assets in October, as U.S. lawmakers avoided a debt default and
investors speculated the  Federal Reserve  will maintain stimulus.  The MSCI All-Country World Index of stocks in 45 markets
climbed 4.1 percent including dividends in October, bringing the
two-month advance to 9.5 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose 4.6 percent, the most since July. Bonds of all types
returned 0.9 percent on average, the most since April, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index.
The Bloomberg Dollar Index fell less than 0.1 percent after
touching its lowest level since February, while the S&P GSCI
Total Return Index of 24  commodities  lost 1.4 percent.  Congress’s budget agreement helped shares rally and price
swings to narrow in what has historically been the most volatile
month for equities. Treasury yields slipped to a three-month low
as the borrowing impasse caused a 16-day government shutdown,
stoking speculation that the Fed will delay cutting its stimulus
program until next year.  “We’re in a sweet spot where the economy is strong enough
to help push profits higher, but not strong enough to prompt
Federal Reserve tightening,”  Alan Gayle , senior investment
strategist and director of  asset allocation  at RidgeWorth
Capital Management, said by phone from Atlanta. His firm
oversees about $48 billion. “The lower level of global economic
activity is putting a lid on commodity prices.”  Europe Rebound  About $2.3 trillion was added to global share values in
October as corporate earnings beat analysts’ estimates and
optimism grew that  Europe  is recovering from a recession. Shares
in  Greece  and Italy were among the world’s biggest gainers as
European money managers received fresh cash from clients for a
15th consecutive week.  Expectations for volatility in financial markets fell for
the month as investors shrugged off the U.S. congressional
standoff. Bank of America Corp.’s Market Risk Index that uses
options to forecast fluctuations in equities, currencies and
bonds slumped 52 percent in October and reached a nine-month low
on Oct. 22. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index,
the gauge of  S&P 500  options prices known as the VIX, tumbled 17
percent last month, the most since July.  While the government shutdown will probably slow fourth-quarter gross domestic product by 0.3 percentage point, Fed
policy makers will wait until March before scaling back the $85
billion of monthly bond purchases, according to a Bloomberg Oct.
17-18 survey of economists.  ‘Incredible Uncertainty’  “Even though you had this incredible uncertainty with
Congress, at the end of day you had the Fed holding up the
market like Atlas holding the world on his shoulders,” Kristina Hooper, a U.S. investment strategist at Allianz Global Investors
in  New York , said in a phone interview. The firm oversees $409
billion. “That provides a level of comfort for investors.”  Fed policy makers said Oct. 30 they would press on with the
pace of monetary stimulus even as signs of “underlying
strength” emerge, fueling speculation the central bank may
taper asset buying in coming months.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  extended its advance for the year to 23.2
percent, challenging 2009 for its best yearly gain in a decade.
About 75 percent of the companies in the S&P 500 that reported
earnings during the month  exceeded  analysts’ profit forecasts,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Equity Valuations  The rally has driven equity  valuations  to an almost four-year high, with the S&P 500 trading at 15.9 times estimated
operating earnings. The benchmark index may end the year at
1,718, a 2.2 percent retreat from the closing level yesterday,
according to the average of 19 estimates from strategists in a
Bloomberg survey.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index advanced 4.8 percent,
completing its first back-to-back monthly gain since January.
International investors added to equity holdings in 10 of the 12
developing nations tracked by Bloomberg in October as
predictions for sustained Fed stimulus through March spurred
demand for riskier assets.  Chinese shares performed worst among the world’s 45 biggest
markets as the Shanghai Composite Index dropped 1.5 percent,
amid a surge in the nation’s money-market rates. The seven-day
 repurchase rate , a gauge of funding availability in the banking
system, jumped 20 percent for the month as policy makers are
limiting the cash supply to help keep inflation in check.  ‘Every Reason’  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index,
tracking debt securities with a market value of about $46
trillion, has declined 0.5 percent in 2013, as of Oct. 30.
Average yields fell 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage points,
last month to 1.9 percent.  The Bloomberg  U.S. Dollar  Index, which tracks the currency
against 10 major peers, fell 0.01 percent. The gauge rallied
yesterday, paring a deeper monthly decline, after the euro-area
inflation rate unexpectedly cooled, fueling speculation the
 European Central Bank  will cut  interest rates  to spur the
economy.  “The resolution to the shutdown and the debt ceiling
standoff brought both interest rates and the U.S. dollar
lower,” Jake Lowery, a portfolio manager focusing on global
rates at ING U.S. Investment Management, which oversees about
$180 billion from Atlanta, said Oct. 29 in a telephone
interview. “October gave the Fed every reason to hold asset
purchases steady at their upcoming meeting and perhaps longer.”  Treasury Yields  U.S. Treasuries rose 0.6 percent as of Oct. 30, the second-straight monthly gain. Yields on 10-year  U.S. government debt 
may climb to 2.8 percent by the end of the year, from 2.6
percent, according to the median estimate of 65 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  High-yield (BHYC)  bonds rallied 2.4 percent last month as of Oct.
28 after gaining 1.8 percent in September, according to the
Bloomberg Global High Yield Corporate Bond Index. Speculative-grade debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and
BBB- by S&P.  Greece’s bonds were the best performers in October among
the 26 sovereign markets tracked by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, rising 7.3 percent.
Portugal’s were second with a 3.4 percent gain.  Australia ’s debt
lost the most with a 0.1 percent decline.  Euro, Yen  The 17-nation euro gained 0.4 percent versus the greenback
and  Japan ’s yen fell 0.1 percent. Europe’s currency is forecast
to weaken to $1.33 against the dollar by the end of the year,
from $1.3584, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Japan’s is estimated to weaken to 100
from 98.36.  Malaysia’s ringgit rallied 3.3 percent against the
greenback, the biggest gain of its 31 most-traded peers as the
nation’s equity index touched a record high. The government
forecast growth of as much as 5.5 percent next year as Prime
Minister Najib Razak pledged to support the economy while taking
steps to meet the government’s budget-deficit reduction goals.  Commodities fell for a second month in October amid
sluggish global growth and signs of supply surpluses for
everything from coffee to zinc. The S&P GSCI Total Return Index
of 24 raw materials has fallen 2.3 percent this year, heading
for the biggest annual loss since 2008.  Economic reports during the month showed that American
employers added fewer jobs than expected in September while
preliminary data indicated manufacturing from the U.S. to Europe
expanded at a slower pace than forecast in October.  Oil, Copper  Crude oil slumped 5.8 percent. Total U.S. petroleum demand
is at the lowest seasonal level in 15 years, according to data
from the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistics unit.  Copper fell last month for the first time since June.
Inventories monitored by the London Metal Exchange have risen 49
percent this year.  “We’re seeing a lot of supply come in various commodities,
notably oil and copper,” Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps
manage $17 billion of assets at BB&T Wealth Management in
Birmingham,  Alabama , said in an interview. “Scarcity and
demand, the things that had driven commodities the past few
years, have backed off a bit.”  Cotton prices fell 12 percent, reaching a nine-month low,
as farmers are poised to collect a record harvest in  India , the
world’s second-largest producer. Coffee futures capped the
longest slump since 1972 as wet weather signaled rising
production in  Brazil , the top grower.  Gold Declines  Gold slid 0.2 percent in October, as speculation that the
Fed will trim U.S. monetary stimulus sooner than anticipated
erased gains for the month on the final day. Bullion is headed
for the first annual loss since 2000 as some investors lost
faith in the metal as a store of value.  Natural gas for next-month delivery gained 0.6 percent to
$3.581 per million British thermal units. Prices rose to a five-month high during a cold snap in mid-October and have dropped
7.4 percent since then amid moderating weather and bigger-than-forecast increases in stockpiles of the heating fuel.  “The market should continue to trade with a bearish
undertone until there is a clear sign that winter-like weather
is finally starting to set in,” Dominick Chirichella, senior
partner at the Energy Management Institute in New York, said in
a note to clients dated Oct. 29. “Demand has yet to have a
major impact.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  