-- Stuyvesant Town Tenants Facing Mid-Lease Rent Increases
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-11-01T23:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/stuyvesant-town-tenants-facing-mid-lease-rent-increases.html
Residents of Stuyvesant Town-Peter
Cooper Village,  Manhattan ’s largest apartment complex, are
facing mid-lease rent increases for the second time this year
after a state agency agreed to let the property’s landlord
recoup costs of improvements completed four years ago.  Rent-stabilized tenants at the 80-acre (32-hectare) complex
received notices this week from the New York State Division of
Housing and Community Renewal saying that the agency approved
four applications filed in 2009 in which the landlord sought to
raise rents after performing “ major capital improvements ,”
according to New York State Assemblyman Brian Kavanagh, whose
district includes the 11,000-unit development.  “Tenants were surprised to find four different notices
that their rent is going up by some amount,” Kavanagh said in
an interview today.  The applications were filed by former landlord Tishman
Speyer Properties LP, which acquired Stuyvesant Town-Peter
Cooper Village in 2006 for $5.4 billion, with plans to raise
rents at the regulated units to market rates. Tishman defaulted
on its $3 billion senior mortgage in 2010, and the property has
since been under control of CWCapital Asset Management LLC, a
special servicer that represents lenders in soured loans.  “We want to proactively work with our residents to
mitigate the effect of these orders,” Stuyvesant Town-Peter
Cooper Village’s managers said in a letter to tenants. “Over
the next few weeks, we will be preparing specific proposals to
all residents individually that outline how we intend to manage
the implementation of these orders.”  ‘Retroactive Charges’  Almost half of residents will have no change because of
rent-stabilization rules, and the complex’s managers “will seek
to reduce the amount of retroactive charges” for long-term
tenants, according to the letter.  Kavanagh couldn’t say how many tenants received notices
from the state, or what the average rent increases will be. The
improvements that were the basis for the application included
the installation of electronic key cards and intercom systems,
and extensive plumbing work in one building, Kavanagh said.  He and other elected officials, including City Councilman
Daniel Garodnick, a tenant at Peter Cooper Village, will convene
a resident meeting tomorrow to discuss the rent notices.  Earlier this year, CWCapital sought mid-lease rent
increases of as much as 30 percent, asking tenants to start
paying the higher rate in the middle of their leases or vacate
their units. Tenants who agreed to accept the rent increases
began paying the higher rates on July 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  