-- Suncor Faces Risk on Rising Costs With $12.9 Billion Oil Venture
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-11-01T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/suncor-faces-risk-on-rising-costs-with-12-9-billion-oil-venture.html
Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  and partners  Total
SA (FP)  and  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B)  face rising costs and shipping risks
with their Fort Hills  oil sands  project, the first mining
operation to get a green light in two years.  The C$13.5 billion ($12.9 billion) Fort Hills venture in
northern  Alberta , 40 percent owned by Suncor with the remainder
divided between Teck and Total, will produce 180,000 barrels a
day within 12 months of startup in 2017, Suncor Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Williams  said yesterday during a conference call.  To counter rising costs, Suncor has been boosting
efficiencies at its operations and reviewing projects, including
the Voyageur upgrader which the company canceled earlier this
year.  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO)  in February boosted the cost of its
Kearl oil sands mining site by 18 percent as the company made
changes to the design.  Even with the threat of higher costs, the oil sands provide
a stable supply source for global energy companies that are also
investing in U.S. shale formations, which become more expensive
as development continues and production from wells decline, said
Mike Tims, chairman of Peters & Co., a Calgary-based investment
bank.  “Fort Hills reinforces their long-term view on  oil prices 
despite the headwinds on costs,” he said.  Fort Hills  Fort Hills, which had initially been slated to start in
2016, has 3.3 billion barrels of reserves and will produce oil
for about 50 years, Suncor said. Williams is “very confident”
the project will be built on budget, he said during the call.  The Fort Hills partners require a $100 Brent oil price for
the project to be economic, Andre Goffart, president of Total’s
Canadian division, said in a phone interview yesterday. The
“break-even” price is lower than that, he said.  “That’s most important to us because we believe that this
is the kind of oil price level we are going to see in the years
to come,” Goffart said.  Brent for December settlement dropped $1.02, or 0.9
percent, to $108.84 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange yesterday. Brent gained 0.4 percent this month.  Fort Hills represents a “milestone” for Total in the oil
sands and will provide decades of production and cash flow at
steady rates from a country with a stable political regime,
Goffart said.  Construction Costs  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  also said yesterday it will go ahead
with the Carmon Creek project in the Peace River oil-sands area,
an 80,000 barrel-a-day drilling development that will use steam
to melt the bitumen so it flows.  Controlling costs for construction of Fort Hills will be
important in an industry that has suffered steady inflation over
the last few years, Goffart said. Fort Hills also requires new
export pipeline capacity from Alberta and Total is closely
monitoring the U.S. review of Keystone XL and political
sentiment around proposed pipelines to  Canada ’s Pacific and
Atlantic coasts, he said.  Rail transport of oil is a short-term solution that Total
is considering for its share of production from Fort Hills, he
said.  “We rely on access to both east and west,” Goffart said,
adding that transportation issues will eventually be resolved.
“It’s clear that going west, looks at the moment, a bit more
challenging.”  Suncor’s Williams is not concerned about transportation
challenges related to the Fort Hills project.  “Let me be really, really clear: we have no market access
issues,” he said during the conference call. “We have plans in
place, which will take all of our base barrels and all of our
growth barrels to market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  