-- U.K. Manufacturing Maintains Expansion as Export Orders Surge
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-11-01T09:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/u-k-manufacturing-maintains-expansion-as-export-orders-surge.html
U.K. manufacturing expanded for a
seventh month in October as growth in overseas demand picked up,
according to a report today.  A gauge of  factory activity  slipped to 56 from a revised
56.3 in September, Markit Economics said in London. While that’s
below the median estimate of economists, it’s still the seventh
month the gauge has been above the 50 level that indicates
growth.  Britain’s  economic growth  accelerated to 0.8 percent in the
third quarter and measures of  consumer confidence  and demand are
improving. Today’s report showed that export orders increased at
the fastest pace since February 2011, with total orders also
increasing.  “Maintaining this solid expansion will be important if we
are to see any real signs of the economy rebalancing,” said Rob Dobson, an economist at Markit in London. The pace of
manufacturing is “boding well for the strong pace of economic
growth we saw in the second and third quarter being sustained
into the fourth quarter.”  Factory payrolls rose for a sixth consecutive month in
October, though the rate eased from September’s 27-month high,
Markit said. Selling prices increased for a fourth month,
reflecting in part higher input costs.  China Growth  Manufacturing strengthened in  China  last month, according
to two separate reports. The country’s official manufacturing
Purchasing Managers’ Index rose more than estimated to an 18-month high and a measure from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
topped projections.  The  official PMI  increased to 51.4 from 51.1, the National
Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said. The HSBC/Markit measure advanced to 50.9 from
50.2, matching a preliminary reading and exceeding the 50.7
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  In the U.S., factory growth cooled in October, economists
said before a report today. The Institute for Supply
Management’s  factory gauge  declined to 55 from a more than two-year high of 56.2 in September, according to the Bloomberg
survey median.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in  London  at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  