-- U.K. May Delay Northwest Europe Power Market Coupling, APX Says
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2013-11-01T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/u-k-may-delay-northwest-europe-power-market-coupling-apx-says.html
Europe ’s plan to link day-ahead
electricity markets in 15 countries may miss its Nov. 26 start
due to changes needed in the U.K. power market, according to
Amsterdam-based exchange operator APX Group.  APX and N2EX, a U.K. exchange jointly owned by Nordpool
Spot AS and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , must set up a virtual trading
hub to create a single price, APX said. There is a risk the hub
may not be ready on time, Olaf Islei, the public and regulatory
affairs adviser at APX, told journalists at a briefing in London
yesterday.  The European Union plans to link electricity markets in 28
countries by the end of 2014, allowing power to flow freely to
markets with the highest prices. When the project is complete,
it will reduce national barriers and cut consumer costs,
according to the European Commission.  If the U.K. hub isn’t ready, it will push back the linkage
deadline for northwest Europe, Islei said.  Stuart Disbrey, a spokesman for N2EX, and David Merino, a
spokesman for the  Agency for the Cooperation of Energy
Regulators , which is coordinating the coupling of European power
markets, weren’t immediately available for comment when
contacted by phone.  ACER outlined the risks of delay at an electricity
stakeholder advisory group on Oct. 24, Islei said.  The U.K.’s virtual hub will pool trading of power through
multiple exchanges and interconnector cables to  France  and the
Netherlands, according to a  statement  on Nordpool’s website. It
will be part of the northwest Europe region, which includes
 Germany .  The northwest market linkage start date will be confirmed
before a meeting of regulators on Nov. 12, Islei said.  The southwest region, including Spain and Portugal, will be
coupled at a later date, according to APX.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Morison in  London  at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  