-- U.K. Business Poll Finds EU Membership Costs Outweigh Benefits
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-11-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/u-k-business-poll-finds-eu-membership-costs-outweigh-benefits.html
 A  YouGov Plc poll  of British
businesses found 46 percent think the cost of complying with
single-market regulation outweighs the benefits of being in the
European Union, giving a boost to those in Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Tory party campaigning for withdrawal.  Cameron will run in national elections in 2015 on a
Conservative platform that includes a referendum on pulling out
of the 28-nation EU, though he says he personally favors
remaining in the bloc with a renegotiation of powers. The survey
published today of 1,024 business leaders was conducted online
from Sept. 2 to Sept. 12.  The poll found that businesses want to see nine key areas
of company regulation renegotiated, including limits on working
hours, taxation, data protection and environmental and health
and safety rules. Even so, 49 percent of respondents would vote
to stay in the EU if there was a referendum tomorrow, with 39
percent preferring to leave. Thirty-seven percent said the
benefits of membership outweigh the costs.  “It will come as a surprise to many that a nationwide and
representative poll of business leaders finds a clear majority
support EU treaty change and a return to a trading
relationship,” Matthew Elliott, Chief Executive of the Business
for Britain group, which commissioned the poll, said in an e-mailed statement. “The pressure is on the government to get a
better deal from Brussels and make life easier for Britain’s job
creators.”  Cameron can’t introduce government legislation now on a
plebiscite because his Liberal Democrat coalition partners
oppose it. Instead, the Tories have published a draft bill to
guarantee a vote by end-2017, which is currently passing through
Parliament.  Arrest Warrant  Separately, Parliament’s cross-party Home Affairs Committee
today called on the government to hold a vote on whether Britain
should continue to be part of the European arrest-warrant
system, which allows for the transfer of criminal suspects
between EU member states.  A vote to establish whether Parliament supports the warrant
would give Britain a mandate for future negotiations on the
issue, the panel’s chairman, opposition Labour lawmaker, Keith Vaz, said in an e-mailed statement.  “The European arrest warrant, in its existing form, is
fundamentally flawed and has led to a number of miscarriages of
justice with devastating consequences for those concerned,” Vaz
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  