-- U.K. to Keep Green Energy Subsidies Amid Row Over Consumer Bills
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-11-01T17:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/u-k-to-keep-green-energy-subsidies-amid-row-over-consumer-bills.html
The U.K.’s Energy Ministry reassured
renewable generators that it will keep subsidies for low-carbon
projects after Prime Minister David Cameron responded to a row
over rising energy bills by ordering a review of green levies.  Incentives are “essential” for investment and won’t be
changed, a Department of Energy and Climate Change spokesman
said today by e-mail in reply to a letter from opposition Labour
lawmaker Tom Greatrex asking which charges would be reviewed.
Unaffected programs include renewables obligation certificates,
contracts for difference and feed-in tariffs, according to DECC.  Energy and climate change policies add about 9 percent, or
112 pounds ($178), to current annual bills for gas and power,
DECC says. Of that, renewables obligations to support wind and
solar account for about 30 pounds of the yearly payments and
premium feed-in tariffs for low-carbon power add 7 pounds.  Energy Minister Michael Fallon said Oct. 30 that all green
levies would be studied, while junior minister Sandip Verma said
large-scale renewables and feed-in tariffs wouldn’t be affected.  “Neither of these statements brings any clarity to the
Prime Minister’s declaration to roll back ‘some’ green levies,”
Greatrex said in the letter to Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  on Oct.
31. He sought clarity, given the “concern and confusion.”  The biggest contribution of the policies to average annual
bills is 47 pounds from the Energy Company Obligation that means
suppliers must offer efficiency measures to vulnerable families.
Other levies include the Warm Home Discount and carbon taxes.  The government aims to curb bills and help households, the
DECC spokesman said in reply to the letter, citing Cameron’s
introduction of annual reviews of competition in the energy
markets. Support available for low-carbon electricity will rise
year-on-year to 7.6 billion pounds to 2020, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  