-- Manufacturing in U.S. Expands at Faster Pace Than Forecast
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-11-01T14:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/u-s-ism-manufacturing-index-rose-to-56-4-in-october-from-56-2.html
Manufacturing grew in October at a
faster pace than forecast, showing U.S. factories were a source
of strength for the economy at the start of the fourth quarter.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  index  climbed to
56.4, the highest since April 2011, from 56.2 a month earlier,
the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s report showed today. Readings
above 50 indicate growth. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
 survey  of economists was 55.  Resilient  motor vehicle  sales and the recovery in housing
are helping sustain production at the same time global markets
begin to pick up. Today’s figures show the brinksmanship over
the budget that closed the federal government for 16 days last
month did little to spoil the rebound in manufacturing since the
middle of the year.  “The government closure didn’t have much effect on
manufacturing -- this is a modest pace of growth and fairly
well-sustained,” said Terry Sheehan, an economic analyst at
Stone & McCarthy Research Associates in Princeton,  New Jersey ,
who projected a reading of 56.4. “We actually see some increase
in the export orders, so it’s possible that some of the slowness
in the global economy is beginning to ease.”  Stocks maintained gains after the figures. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.2 percent to 1,760.56 at 10:46 a.m.
in  New York .  Estimates for the factory index from 83 economists in the
Bloomberg survey ranged from 52.5 to 57.5. Manufacturing
accounts for about 12 percent of the economy. Of the 18
industries covered, 14 reported expansion in October, led by
textile mills, the ISM said.  Government Shutdown  While the gauge showed little effect on manufacturing from
the partial shutdown of federal agencies last month, reduced
 government spending  prompted economists to cut their fourth-quarter growth forecasts, according to a survey yesterday.  The world’s largest economy will expand at a 2 percent
annualized rate in the final three months of 2013, less than the
2.4 percent pace projected in an Oct. 4-9 survey of economists.  From  China  to  South Korea , manufacturing strengthened last
month in a sign that growth risks are abating in  Asia  and
expansion may pick up this quarter.  China’s official factory index of  purchasing managers  rose
to an 18-month high and a measure from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics topped projections. HSBC’s reading for South
Korea showed growth for the first time since May and Taiwan’s
PMI rose to 53 from 52. An Australian index also advanced.  U.K. Manufacturing  In the U.K.,  manufacturing  eased in October from a month
earlier. A measure for  Norway  showed a pickup in growth, while
Switzerland, Sweden and Denmark showed slower expansions.  The ISM’s gauge of U.S.  new orders  was little changed at
60.6 last month after 60.5 in September. The measure has
exceeded 60 for three straight months, the longest since the
start of 2011.  Supplier  delivery times  lengthened, according to an ISM
measure that climbed to the highest level since June 2011.  An index of production cooled to 60.8 from 62.6. The
group’s factory employment measure dropped in October to 53.2
from 55.4, while the index of orders waiting to be filled
climbed to 51.5 from 49.5.  The report also showed gauges of factory  inventories  and
customer stockpiles rose in October from the prior month.  Vehicle Sales  Motor vehicle demand has kept assembly lines busy at the
nation’s automakers. Cars and light trucks  sold  at a 15.2
million annualized pace in September after a 16 million rate the
previous month that was the fastest since November 2007,
according to Ward’s Automotive Group.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest U.S. automaker, achieved
a record third-quarter pre-tax profit of $2.6 billion, lifting
its full-year outlook, according to an Oct. 24 company
statement.  Ford’s vehicle deliveries, revenue and market share
increased in all four of its regions during the third quarter.
Operations outside  North America  earned about $57 million, the
company’s best result on that basis since the second quarter of
2011.  Even with last month’s budget battle in  Washington , some
companies such as  Kennametal Inc. (KMT) , which produces tools and
tooling systems, see signs of sustained growth in the global
economy.  ‘Strong’ Foundation  “In the U.S., there have been various concerns about the
economy as well as the fiscal budget issues and tax increases as
well as the federal spending sequester,” Carlos Cardoso,
chairman and chief executive officer at Latrobe, Pennsylvania-based Kennametal, said on an Oct. 24 earnings call. “Business
conditions continue to be tentative” even as “the foundation
of a recovery remains strong.”  At the same time, the medical device industry is one sector
that’s struggling with limited demand.  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) ,
the second-biggest maker of heart-rhythm aids, plans to cut as
many as 1,500 employees through 2015, the Natick, Massachusetts-based company said in an Oct. 24 statement.  The cutbacks build on a 2011 program, which was expanded in
January, and are in line with efforts by competitors including
industry leader  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  of  Minneapolis , which announced
cuts of as many as 2,000 jobs in 2011.  Insufficient demand has convinced the  Federal Reserve  to
press on with $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, according
to a statement earlier this week at the conclusion of a two-day
meeting in Washington.  “The recovery in the housing sector slowed somewhat in
recent months,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in the
statement. “Fiscal policy is restraining economic growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  