-- U.S. Stocks Rise Amid Factory Data, Corporate Earnings
-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-11-01T20:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/u-s-stock-futures-little-changed-before-data-aig-slips.html
U.S.  stocks  rose, halting the first
two-day drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in three weeks,
as optimism about corporate earnings offset concern that
improving economic data could prompt the  Federal Reserve  to trim
stimulus.  First Solar Inc. rallied 18 percent after the largest U.S.
solar-panel manufacturer said third-quarter profit almost
doubled. American International Group Inc. lost 6.5 percent
after premium revenue fell at its property-casualty division.
Chevron Corp. slid 1.6 percent as it reported profit below
estimates as weaker refining margins eroded gains from higher
commodity prices and output from wells.  The  S&P 500  climbed 0.3 percent to 1,761.64 at 4 p.m. in
 New York , after earlier falling as much as 0.2 percent. The
equity gauge advanced 0.1 percent in the past five days, its
fourth straight weekly gain. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
rose 69.80 points, or 0.5 percent, to 15,615.55 today. About 6.8
billion shares changed hands on U.S. exchanges, 14 percent above
the three-month average.  “Earnings drive the market, and earnings have been good,”
 Richard Sichel , the chief investment officer at Philadelphia
Trust Co., where he helps oversee $1.9 billion, said by phone.
“Economic growth is slow but going in the right direction.
Stocks definitely have shown that they’re the best place to be,
and that can continue in spite of things going on in
 Washington .”  Better-than-forecast corporate results and Fed stimulus
have helped the S&P 500 rally 24 percent this year as it
challenges 2009 for the best annual gain in the past decade. The
gauge jumped 4.5 percent in October for the biggest advance in
three months and closed at a record Oct. 29.  Equity Flows  Of the 368 S&P 500 companies that have reported results for
the third quarter, 75 percent exceeded analysts’ predictions for
profit, while 53 percent beat sales estimates,  data  by Bloomberg
showed. Profits for members of the gauge probably increased 4.1
percent in the period as sales climbed 2.9 percent, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors continued to shift money into stocks last month,
as U.S. equity exchange-traded funds drew $18.2 billion in
October, the most in three months and the third-highest amount
since 2010, according to Bloomberg data. About $110.6 billion
has been absorbed this year, putting the stock ETFs on pace for
the highest flows since the records began in 2000.  Economic Data  Equities turned lower earlier today after improving
manufacturing data raised concern that the Fed will cut its $85
billion in monthly bond buying sooner than expected. The
 Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index rose at a faster
pace than forecast in October, indicating U.S. manufacturing was
a source of strength. An earlier report from  China  indicated the
nation’s official manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’ Index rose
more than estimated in last month.  “There’s some concern clearly that the economic data is
getting better and we might get tapering in December,”  Eric Green , director of research and fund manager at Penn Capital
Management, said by phone. The Philadelphia-based firm oversees
about $7 billion. “As you get positive economic data points,
those that were concerned about the taper get more concerned.”  ‘Underlying Strength’  Fed policy makers this week said the economy showed signs
of “underlying strength” even as the bank maintained the pace
of stimulus while awaiting further signs growth is strong enough
to bring down 7.2 percent unemployment. Economists in a
Bloomberg survey project that tapering will begin in March,
based on the median estimate.  The data today came amid concern the 16-day U.S. government
shutdown last month may have slowed growth in the fourth
quarter. The economy will probably expand at a 2 percent
annualized rate in the final three months of the year, less than
economists projected at the start of the federal closure. The
median projection of 71 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
yesterday compares with a 2.4 percent forecast in an Oct. 4-9
survey.  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said gains in
the labor market since September 2012 could warrant a cut in the
Fed’s monthly bond purchases.  Charles Plosser , president of the
Philadelphia Fed who has opposed the central bank’s current
round of stimulus, said inflation will be a concern as the Fed
unwinds its balance sheet.  Highest Valuation  The S&P 500’s rally has left the index trading at 15.9
times its companies’ estimated earnings, after slipping from the
highest  valuation  since the start of 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have gotten pretty overbought and we were due for some
pause, which is what we have been getting since the Fed
statement,”  Michael James , a Los Angeles-based managing
director of equity trading at Wedbush Securities Inc., said in
an interview. “The market continues to be sloppy since.”  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Volatility Index (VIX) , the
gauge known as VIX that measures options traders’ estimate of
future price swings in  S&P 500 (SPX) , slid 3.4 percent, halting a
four-day rally. The gauge dropped 17 percent in October.  Seven out of 10 main industries in the S&P 500 advanced
today, as industrial stocks and utilities rose at least 0.7
percent to pace gains. Boeing Co. jumped 1.9 percent to a record
$133.03 for the biggest gain in the Dow.  First Solar rallied 18 percent to $59.14 as sales of power
plants and revenue from new projects boosted profit. Net income
rose to $195 million, or $1.94 a share, from $87.9 million, or
$1, a year earlier, according to a statement late yesterday.
Analysts on average had predicted earnings of 83 cents.  Penney, Netflix  J.C. Penney Co. advanced 8.5 percent to $8.14, a one-month
high. ITG Investment Research analyst  John Tomlinson  boosted his
third-quarter revenue estimate, citing “improved sales
trends.”  Netflix Inc. rose 2.1 percent to $329.27. The online video-streaming service was upgraded to outperform from neutral at
Robert Baird & Co.  Chevron slid 1.6 percent to $118.01. The second-largest
U.S. energy producer by market value said profit from processing
crude oil into fuels tumbled 45 percent during the third quarter
to $380 million amid rising feedstock costs and repairs at a
California plant that crimped gasoline and diesel output. The
refining slowdown overshadowed a 2.7 percent rise in oil and gas
production led by fields from  Kazakhstan  to  Pennsylvania .  Energy companies lost 0.3 percent for the steepest decline
among S&P 500 groups, as crude fell below $95 a barrel for the
first time since June.  AIG (AIG) , the insurer that repaid a U.S. rescue last year,
declined 6.5 percent to $48.28, headed for the lowest close in a
year. Premium revenue at the property-casualty division fell 3.7
percent to $8.43 billion in the third quarter, the company said
in a statement late yesterday. Third-quarter net income rose to
$2.17 billion, or $1.46 a share, from $1.86 billion, or $1.13 a
year earlier, New York-based AIG said.  Tower International Inc. (TOWR) , a maker of metal components for
the automotive industry, fell 5.1 percent to $20.14 after saying
an affiliate of Cerberus Capital Management LP plans to sell
about 2.6 million shares in the company. 