-- UBS Whistle-Blower Settles Fee Dispute Over $104 Million
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-11-01T21:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/ubs-whistle-blower-settles-fee-dispute-over-104-million.html
Bradley Birkenfeld, the former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
banker who exposed how the Swiss lender helped Americans evade
taxes, settled legal disputes with a law firm that claimed it
was owed $13 million of his $104 million whistle-blower award.  The Washington firm of Schertler & Onorato LLP claimed
Birkenfeld owed it 12.5 percent of any whistle-blower award he
got from the Internal Revenue Service. Birkenfeld sued the firm
in Superior Court of the District of Columbia, claiming it
mishandled his case. Both cases were dismissed yesterday, court
records show. Terms weren’t disclosed.  “The parties to this litigation hereby notify the court
that this case has been settled,” lawyers for Birkenfeld and
Schertler & Onorato wrote in a filing yesterday in Superior
Court.  In a separate filing in federal court in the District of
Columbia, the lawyers said Birkenfeld agreed to dismiss “the
arbitration of the fee dispute filed before the D.C. Attorney-Client Arbitration Board.”  Birkenfeld hired Schertler & Onorato in 2006 to help him
tell the U.S. how UBS used Swiss bank secrecy to cheat the IRS.
Birkenfeld told his story the next year to the IRS, the U.S.
Justice Department, the U.S. Senate and the Securities and
Exchange Commission. He agreed in October 2007 to pay the law
firm 12.5 percent of any IRS whistle-blower award, according to
court documents.  Guilty Plea  Birkenfeld served 31 months in prison after pleading guilty
to conspiracy and was released in August 2012, six weeks before
the IRS gave him the largest federal whistle-blower award for an
individual. Birkenfeld had fired Schertler & Onorato in 2008,
and his new law firm, Washington-based Kohn, Kohn & Colapinto
LLP, said the 12.5 percent accord is no longer binding.  Birkenfeld’s impact on Zurich-based UBS, the largest bank
in Switzerland, is undisputed. A neurosurgeon’s son from
Brookline,  Massachusetts , he spent 15 year in Swiss banking,
including five at UBS. He was one of as many as 60 UBS employees
who trolled the U.S. for rich clients, even though the bankers
lacked required SEC licenses, he told Senate investigators. They
visited art shows, yachting regattas and golf and tennis
tournaments, he said.  Conspiracy Charge  Prosecutors have said Birkenfeld’s disclosures led them to
charge UBS in 2009 with conspiracy. The bank avoided prosecution
by paying $780 million, admitting it fostered tax evasion from
2000 to 2007, and turning over data on 250 Swiss accounts. UBS
later agreed to provide information on another 4,450 accounts.
Since then, at least 38,000 Americans voluntarily disclosed
offshore accounts to the IRS, generating more than $5.5 billion
in tax revenue.  The IRS said Birkenfeld provided “exceptional
cooperation,” gave information on taxpayer behavior that the
agency hadn’t detected, and led to substantial changes in UBS
practices, according to an agency explanation released by
Stephen Kohn of Kohn, Kohn & Colapinto.  While he sat in prison in Minersville,  Pennsylvania ,
Birkenfeld filed a lawsuit accusing Schertler & Onorato of
malpractice and breach of fiduciary duty. The complaint, filed
in August 2011 without a lawyer in Superior Court, sought $10
million in damages.  Birkenfeld claimed the firm mishandled negotiations with
the Justice Department, which refused in 2007 to grant him
either immunity or a subpoena he said he needed to reveal
information otherwise protected by Swiss law.  Federal Suit  When prosecutors charged him in 2008, they said he wasn’t
truthful about his own role in helping a billionaire client
break the law.  Birkenfeld also sued in federal court in Washington,
claiming Schertler & Onorato violated his constitutional rights
in May 2008 when he met with prosecutors two days after his
arrest. At that meeting and in other instances, Birkenfeld
claimed, a prosecutor said he couldn’t meet with Senate or SEC
investigators, and his lawyer didn’t respond, violating
Birkenfeld’s right to free speech and his right to due process.  In October 2011, Schertler & Onorato denied Birkenfeld’s
allegations and filed a counterclaim, saying he didn’t give his
lawyers “complete information about the extent of his illegal
conduct and activities.”  ‘Complex’ Process  That counterclaim said a Schertler lawyer gave a Form 211,
titled an “Application for Reward for Original Information,”
to IRS agent Matthew Kutz at a meeting on June 12, 2007. A copy
of the form, provided last year to Bloomberg News by Schertler &
Onorato, shows it was signed by Birkenfeld and given “through
counsel” to Kutz “in person.”  Schertler & Onorato helped Birkenfeld “navigate the
complex and evolving” process at the “newly formed IRS
Whistleblower Office,” according an October 2011 court filing
by the firm.  A retainer letter, sent on Oct. 23, 2007, outlined the 12.5
percent whistle-blower fee and a cap on hourly fees at $80,000,
according to the firm’s counterclaim.  Birkenfeld also signed a second representation letter on
May 9, 2008, for the firm to represent him after his arrest. It
called for an advance of $50,000.  In his December 2010 letter to Schertler, Colapinto said
Birkenfeld’s second retainer letter superseded the first one,
which meant the firm “relinquished its financial interest” in
the whistle-blower award. It also referenced an IRS Form 211
filed in 2007.  ‘No Evidence’  “There is no evidence that your firm performed any work on
that claim or that your firm perfected the claim as required by
either the statute or IRS regulations governing the whistle-blower reward program,” Colapinto wrote.  Birkenfeld’s brother, Doug, didn’t respond to an e-mail
asking whether Bradley would comment on the fee dispute.
Attorney David Schertler, of Schertler & Onorato, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  The cases are Birkenfeld v. Schertler & Onorato, 11-cv-1529, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia ( Washington );
and Birkenfeld v. Schertler & Onorato LLP, 2011-CA-6905,
District of Columbia Superior Court (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in federal court in Newark, New Jersey, at
   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  