-- UBS to Establish New Swiss Too-Big-to-Fail Banking Unit
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-11-01T16:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/ubs-to-establish-new-swiss-too-big-to-fail-banking-unit.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
said it plans to set up a Swiss banking subsidiary because the
country’s too-big-to-fail regulations may lead systemically
important banks to change their legal structure.  Switzerland introduced some of the world’s strictest
capital and liquidity rules in 2011, forcing UBS and  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  to hold capital equal to as much as 19 percent
of risk-weighted assets by 2019. The banks will probably meet
this criteria by the end of 2014, Swiss National Bank Vice
President Jean-Pierre Danthine said last month.  “The modifications we are currently considering to our
legal structure are part of our ongoing efforts to meet the new
regulatory requirements for the banking industry,” Samuel
Brandner, a UBS spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement today.
“They are subject to a number of regulatory developments and
can change both in terms of scope and timing. We expect
implementation to begin in a phased approach in mid-2015.”  In a later statement, UBS said this is “an evolution of
our approach” in response to an existing law. “Increasing
resolvability beyond the requirements of the law also creates
the possibility of a limited reduction of  capital
requirements ,” according to the statement.  UBS said in its  third-quarter earnings report  on Oct. 29
that it plans to include its “retail and corporate business
division and likely the Swiss-booked business within our wealth-management business division” in the new Swiss unit. The
process won’t require the bank to raise additional equity
capital, and will “not materially” affect its capital-generating capability, UBS said then.  Capital Needs  “The regulation is going in this direction” of
systemically important banks improving their ability to wind
down, said Andreas Venditti, a Zurich-based analyst with
Zuercher Kantonalbank with an outperform rating on the stock. If
UBS doesn’t adjust its legal structure, the bank would risk not
getting a discount from the Swiss regulator on its capital
requirements, he said in a telephone interview.  The European Union is seeking ways to structure riskier
activities outside of more traditional banking to relieve
taxpayers of responsibility for bailouts and to protect
depositors. In the U.S., the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act gave regulators
the power to restructure or sell off pieces of a bank, while the
U.K. is considering separating consumer operations from
 investment banking .  The blog  “Inside Paradeplatz,”  citing an unidentified
person with knowledge of the matter, reported today UBS plans to
establish three legal subsidiaries in Zurich,  London  and  New
York , under a plan called White Bank. UBS declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  