-- Muddy Waters Sees NQ Delist as Khan Calls Forecast Absurd
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-11-01T20:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/muddy-waters-s-block-sees-nq-mobile-delisted-within-a-year-1-.html
Carson Block , the Muddy Waters LLC
founder whose short call prompted a 62 percent plunge in  NQ
Mobile Inc. (NQ) , said the stock will be delisted within a year. NQ’s
co-chief executive officer said the prediction is “absurd.”  “We have no doubt that in a year from now, this company
will have been delisted,” Block said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today with  Stephanie Ruhle  on the “Market Makers”
program. “Over 90 percent of the revenue doesn’t exist.”  The shares of NQ Mobile dropped 11 percent to $12.78 after
rising as much as 10 percent earlier today. The stock is down
more than 40 percent since Block issued an 81-page  report  on
Oct. 24 calling NQ Mobile a “massive fraud” and claiming that
its largest customer is itself.  NQ Mobile, based in Beijing, said today that its
independent special committee retained the law firm Shearman &
Sterling LLP to review Muddy Waters’s allegations. On Oct. 24,
the research firm said that “NQ is a massive fraud” and that
its “cash balances are highly likely to not be real.” The
company responded by releasing data of its bank deposits to
investors and held a two-hour conference call on Oct. 25
rebutting Block’s claims.  In an interview with Bloomberg Television today, Omar Khan,
co-chief executive officer of NQ Mobile, said a delisting from
the New York Stock Exchange is “absolutely absurd.”  Rich
Adamonis , a spokesman for the NYSE, said the bourse has no
comment.  Listing Requirements  The NYSE company listing requirements include having a
market value of at least $40 million, according to the bourse’s
website. NQ’s market capitalization dropped to $664.7 million
from $1.2 billion on Oct. 23.  “This is them playing a shell game and very poorly trying
to recover from the lies that they have previously told,” Block
said in the interview. “We really have seen this movie
before.”  Muddy Waters has short positions in NQ, Block said on Oct.
25. He gained fame for his short-selling calls after regulators
halted trading in four of the first five companies he targeted
starting in June 2010. A short sale is one in which stock is
borrowed and sold, with the hope of profit by repurchasing the
shares later at a lower price to be returned to the lender.  NQ Mobile said this week it would transfer $100 million of
deposits to Standard Chartered Plc and authorized it to
independently verify the deposits as well as make details
available to investors. The Beijing-based company also posted a
 90-page document  to refute accusations mentioned in Muddy
Waters’ note, disclosing details including top 100 mobile
devices that have activated its security software. NQ said it’s
suing Muddy Waters in court in  China .  NQ Mobile raised its 2013 revenue estimate to as much as
$188 million on Aug. 12 from the upper limit of its prior
forecast of $184 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in  New York  at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  