-- Ukraine Rating Cut to Greek Level by S&P as Devaluation Seen
-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2013-11-01T16:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/ukraine-rating-cut-to-b-by-s-p-as-devaluation-seen-more-likely.html
Ukraine’s debt rating was cut to the
same junk level as  Greece  by  Standard & Poor’s , which said the
government is struggling to weather a shortage of foreign
currency, increasing the likelihood of a hryvnia devaluation.  The rating company lowered Ukraine’s long-term sovereign
credit rating one step to B-, six levels below investment grade,
with a negative outlook, according to a statement released
today. That leaves the eastern European nation on par with
Greece and Belize, both of which have restructured debt in the
past several years.  “The downgrade reflects our view that the government’s
strategy is increasingly unlikely to secure sufficient foreign
currency to meet its elevated external financing needs,” S&P
analysts said. “Devaluation of the Ukrainian hryvnia has become
more likely. The potential magnitude of this has also increased
in light of the government’s defense of the  exchange rate 
through the depletion of foreign-currency reserves.”  The move underscores the challenges facing Ukraine more
than a month after it was downgraded deeper into junk status by
Moody’s Investors Services amid growing political and economic
risks and a lack of prospects for a bailout from the
 International Monetary Fund . Ukraine yesterday pledged to stem
declines in its foreign reserves next year as the IMF said it
wouldn’t ease conditions for a new loan.  ‘Relatively Quietly’  With the government’s efforts falling short of stabilizing
its precarious finances, Ukraine’s default risk has risen to the
world’s fourth-highest after Argentina, Cyprus and  Venezuela ,
according to data complied by Bloomberg. The benchmark  Ukrainian
Equities Index (UX)  has lost more than 9 percent this year for the
worst performance among bourses in eastern  Europe .  “Markets will respond relatively quietly to the rating
downgrade,” said  Alexander Morozov , Moscow-based chief
economist for Russia, the  Commonwealth of Independent States  and
Baltic states at HSBC Holdings Plc. “S&P’s downgrade is
negative news for Ukraine, but it should not be overplayed.”  The cost of credit-default swaps to protect Ukrainian bonds
for five years against non-payment rose 2 basis points to 988 at
6:29 p.m. in  Kiev  after surging to 1,089 on Sept. 27, the
highest since January 2010.  Ukraine’s Alternatives  With bond yields exceeding 10 percent, Ukraine is looking
for “other sources of financing,” Halyna Pakhachuk, head of
the  Finance Ministry ’s department debt, said yesterday at a
Fitch Ratings conference in the capital, Kiev.  Ukraine faces a “one-in-three” chance of another
downgrade during the next year if its international  reserves 
decline faster than S&P expects, the rating company said. The
holdings, which shrank by 26 percent from a year earlier in
September, may decline to below three months of current account
payments and to less than 30 percent of external short-term debt
in 2013, according to S&P.  The current-account deficit more than doubled to $5.05
billion in the third quarter from $2.25 billion in the previous
three months, according to central bank data released today.  S&P analysts “assume” a managed devaluation of the
Ukrainian currency against the  U.S. dollar  in 2014 to 9.5, from
an estimated 8.2 in 2013. The hryvnia was 0.1 percent stronger
at 8.1780 per dollar versus 8.1873 yesterday.  ‘Political Uncertainty’  “The ratings are constrained by our view of political
uncertainty, financial sector stress, and weak external
liquidity,” S&P said. “Under our base case, we do not expect
Ukraine to commit to broad-based reforms. This makes an
agreement on a multi-lateral external financing program
unlikely.”  Ukraine’s economy slipped into recession in the third
quarter as industrial production plummeted amid weaker demand
for exports such as steel. The government has been discussing a
third IMF bailout since 2008 for more than a year, rejecting
demands by the lender to cut household heating subsidies as
President  Viktor Yanukovych  prepares for elections in 2015.  Ukraine’s gross domestic product fell 0.4 percent from the
previous three months in the third quarter after shrinking 0.5
percent between April and June. Central bank reserves were at a
seven-year low of $21.6 billion at the end of September, down
from $29.3 billion a year earlier, as policy makers intervened
to support the hryvnia and repay existing IMF loans.  ‘Ambitious’ Consolidation  An IMF mission left Kiev this week, with negotiations over
a new $15 billion loan continuing. In a statement yesterday, the
Washington-based lender urged “ambitious fiscal consolidation”
and reiterated demands on energy tariffs and the hryvnia.  “The likelihood of a new full-scale IMF program remains
essentially the same as it was before, if  Russia  does not
escalate pressure on Ukraine,” Vladimir Osakovskiy and Vadim Khramov, economists at Bank of America, said in e-mailed
comments. “The IMF will most likely insist on the same
conditions, including fiscal consolidation and currency
flexibly, which have been at the core of their long-lasting
negotiations.”  Ukraine is seeking to sign an association agreement with
the European Union this month, a move that’s angered Russia and
triggered threats of trade blockages. Russia resumed tighter
customs check at the border, causing delays to cargo trucks,
Ukraine’s Tax and Revenue Ministry said yesterday.  “Uncertainty remains as to whether or not Ukraine will
sign an association agreement with the EU,” S&P said. “Signing
the agreement would be positive for Ukraine’s trade over the
long term, but there could be short- to medium-term negative
implications largely related to Russia’s reaction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  