-- UMW Oil Surges After $744 Million Share Sale: Kuala Lumpur Mover
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-11-01T10:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/umw-oil-jumps-after-743-million-share-sale-kuala-lumpur-mover.html
UMW Oil & Gas Corp. (UMWOG)  rallied as much
as 13.6 percent on its trading debut in Kuala Lumpur after
completing a 2.36 billion ringgit ($744 million) initial public
offering, the biggest in Malaysia this year.  The oil and gas services provider  climbed  as high as 3.18
ringgit from an offer price of 2.80 ringgit, before paring gains
to close at 3.10 ringgit. It was the most-active stock, with
221.4 million units traded, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The FTSE Bursa Malaysia  KLCI index  rose 0.2 percent.  UMW Oil & Gas was spun off by car assembler  UMW Holdings
Bhd. (UMWH)  to help it raise funds more easily as the  energy industry 
is capital intensive, Chairman Asmat Kamaludin said in June. At
the 2.80 ringgit IPO price, the stock was valued at 29 times its
fiscal 2013 earnings, according to HwangDBS  Malaysia  Bhd.’s
report on Oct. 11. That compares with an industry average of
 43.7 times  in Malaysia, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Investors are buying because they’re confident that UMW
Oil’s future profits will be good,” Ang Kok Heng, who helps
manage $428 million in Kuala Lumpur as chief investment officer
at Phillip Capital Management Sdn., said in an interview today.
“Since sentiment on oil and stocks is strong, people don’t mind
paying a high price-earnings multiple.” Ang said he subscribed
to the IPO.  New Rigs  UMW Oil, which manufactures pipes and provides offshore
drilling services, will take delivery of a fourth rig next May
and plans to buy at least one annually till 2018, President
Rohaizad Darus said in an interview in  Kuala Lumpur  today. Each
rig can boost revenue by at least $57 million a year, he said.
The company can finance the purchase of as many as five rigs
without tapping shareholders for more funds, Rohaizad said.  The firm is budgeting as much as $1 billion over the next
five years for capital expenditure, he said.  Revenue is  projected  to rise to 977.9 million ringgit in
2014 from an estimated 734 million ringgit this year, according
to the average forecast of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  UMW Oil priced the IPO at the top of its marketed range
after attracting institutional demand of more than 50 times the
number of shares offered, two people familiar with the IPO said
Oct. 11.  While UMW Oil will focus on providing drilling services, it
won’t rule out venturing upstream into exploration in the
future, he said.  “I’ll be comfortable with earnings growth of 25 percent to
30 percent a year,” Rohaizad said. “If the market is bullish,
then the growth rate could be higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  