-- UniCredit Markets Structured Notes Tied to Carmignac Mutual Fund
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-11-01T08:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/unicredit-markets-structured-notes-tied-to-carmignac-mutual-fund.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  is selling structured
notes tied to a mutual fund run by money manager Edouard Carmignac, lifting issuance of securities that profit from fund
returns to the most in three years in  Europe .  Italy’s largest bank is marketing as much as 30 million
euros ($41.3 million) of six-year notes that pay yields based on
the performance of the  Carmignac Patrimoine (CARMPAT)  fund, the second-largest euro-denominated mutual fund, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Fund-linked notes “are a growing niche,” said Christian Voit, head of fund derivatives structuring for Germany at
UniCredit in Munich. “You can think of these notes as a double
seat belt. You are protected by an active manager who can move
money into cash or less risky assets if he foresees a fall in
market prices, and even if he makes the wrong calls, you will
still get your money back.”  Carmignac’s fund lost  0.42 percent  this year as emerging
market equities and bonds declined. Investors in the structured
notes would have been shielded from the losses as the notes are
capital-protected.  Lenders including Barclays Plc and DZ Bank AG sold 277.5
million euros of fund-linked notes this year, up from 159.8
million euros for all of 2012 and the most since 526.7 million
euros was issued in 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Structured notes package debt with derivatives to offer
customized bets to investors while earning fees and raising
money. Buyers of the securities, which include institutional
investors as well as individuals, bear the risk both of the bank
selling the securities and of the underlying assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  