-- Uralkali Sees Potash Demand at 10-Year High on Price Drop
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-11-01T13:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/uralkali-sees-potash-demand-at-10-year-high-on-price-drop.html
OAO Uralkali, the world’s largest
potash producer, expects global demand for the soil nutrient to
climb to the highest for at least a decade next year as a
decline in prices ends a slowdown in sales.  “We expect that next year the global demand for potash
will definitely grow, and may reach 58 million tons to 60
million tons,” Oleg Petrov, Uralkali’s chief of sales and
marketing, said in interview in Moscow today. “Farmers are
comfortable with the current price and they don’t expect it to
fall any more.”  Potash demand was 57 million metric tons in 2011, the
highest since at least 2003, according to data from Berezniki,
Russia-based Uralkali. Use of the commodity, which helps farmers
strengthen crop roots, will be capped at 53 million to 54
million tons this year, the company said.  Prices have declined since the start of 2012 and fell to
about $320 a ton in September, the lowest for about three years.
That followed Uralkali’s withdrawal from a trading venture with
Belarus on July 30 over claims partner Belaruskali was making
sales outside of their marketing agreement. Belarus responded by
arresting Uralkali Chief Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner
on Aug. 26 and charging him with abuse of office. He remains in
Minsk under house arrest.  Since the break up of the Belarusian Potash Co. venture,
the market has become “healthier,” with prices at $320 to $330
a ton from  China  to  Brazil , Petrov said.  ‘Dumbest Thing’  The pick-up in sales suggests prices could advance next
year, with any gain accelerated by potential consolidation among
suppliers. Uralkali hasn’t held talks with Belaruskali on
restoring their joint sales, which once accounted for 40 percent
of global shipments.  Uralkali has operated at full capacity since August and
expects to sell 13 million tons of potash next year. Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. CEO Bill Doyle said last week that
Uralkali’s decision to expand sales volumes at the expense of
prices has been self-destructive and the “dumbest thing” he
has seen.  “We tried hard to prevent the BPC breakup,” Petrov said
in response today. “It became difficult to sustain it lately,
as the whole industry rushed to fight for market share, to the
detriment of both customers and shareholders. We are surprised
to read comments from some people in the industry who, by their
own actions, facilitated this crisis.”  Uralkali’s new strategy is working, said Petrov. “We sold
about 850,000 tons of potash in September and ended up with
about 900,000 tons in October.” About 200,000 tons of October’s
sales were to  India , with a similar amount to Brazil. Uralkali
also sold about 150,000 tons in  Russia  and had “good volumes”
to China by rail and sea.  Paralysis Gone  Uralkali is taking up an option to sell 500,000 tons of
potash to China from August to the end of the year. The Russian
company agreed to sell potash to India in September for $375 a
metric ton, 12 percent less than a sales agreement BPC signed in
February.  “This doesn’t necessarily mean that we are the only
company in the world who is selling now,” he said. “Markets
have recovered and are no longer paralyzed.”  Brazil purchased about 1 million tons a month during its
peak period of September and October, he said. Winning sales in
Brazil is a competition with suppliers from  Canada ,  Israel  and
 Germany , with Belarus the only major producer without market
share, Petrov said.  The situation is similar for India and other markets, where
Uralkali’s rivals include Canpotex, which markets the nutrient
on behalf of North American producers Potash Corp.,  Agrium Inc (AGU) 
and  Mosaic Co. (MOS)   Contract Talks  China, the biggest user of potash, is the one market to
have drawn negative sentiment in the past three months from
suppliers -- aside from Uralkali, he said. “The rest of the
world sees problems only in China, where only Uralkali is
currently shipping,” Petrov said. The Russian company has the
advantage of being able to rail potash to China for sale on the
country’s spot market.  Uralkali expects talks with China for 2014 long-term supply
agreements to start this month. “By Jan. 1 all suppliers can
achieve price agreements,” Petrov said.  Potash prices in China stabilized in September and October
at about $325-$330 a ton in the  spot market  for immediate
deliveries, Petrov said. This may become a benchmark for future
contract negotiations, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  