-- WellCare Seeks New CEO as Chairman Takes Over for Cunningham
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-11-01T12:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/wellcare-seeks-new-ceo-as-chairman-takes-over-for-cunningham-1-.html
WellCare Health Plans Inc. (WCG) , a
provider of managed-care plans for about 2.8 million people, is
seeking a new chief executive officer and said 2013 profit may
be lower than anticipated.  Chairman David Gallitano will be the interim replacement
for departing CEO Alec Cunningham, the Tampa, Florida-based
health insurer said today in a statement. WellCare said earnings
excluding certain items will be $4.70 to $4.80 a share this
year, trimming a previous outlook of as much as $4.90.  WellCare lowered the profit forecast even as it said
revenue may be $9.35 billion to $9.4 billion, more than
previously expected. Fourth-quarter expenses are now anticipated
to be higher, the company said. The combination of the lower
profit expectation and an unexpected management change may hurt
the stock, said Chris Rigg, an analyst with Susquehanna
Financial Group.  “WellCare offered little information for the abrupt
management change other than boiler plate language that is
commonplace in these types of announcements,” Riggs wrote in a
research note. “Shares could get hit hard today due to both the
management change and the downward revision to 2013 EPS
guidance.”  WellCare rose less than 1 percent to $66.68 at the close
yesterday. The shares have gained 37 percent this year.  “As the company continues to expand and grow, the board
felt that it was necessary to identify a new experienced leader
to help write the next chapter for WellCare,” Gallitano said
today in a statement. He has been a WellCare board member since
2009 and was named chairman in May.  WellCare provides managed-care services targeted to
government-sponsored health-care programs and has about 2.8
million health-plan members in the U.S.  The company reported third-quarter net income rose 67
percent to $64 million, or $1.45 a share. Excluding one-time
items, earnings were $1.56 a share, topping by 5 cents the
average of 12 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  