-- Western Canada Select Falls to $40 Discount Seen in January
-- B y   E l i o t   C a r o o m
-- 2013-11-01T20:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/western-canada-select-falls-to-40-discount-seen-in-january.html
Canadian heavy crude fell to the
widest discount since January against West  Texas  Intermediate
with pipelines out of Alberta unable to meet demand and
maintenance under way at U.S. Midwest refineries.  Pipelines owned by  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  weren’t able to carry all
that crude shippers sought to transport this month, according to
two notices from the company. Refineries that consume Canadian
crude are doing work, including Citgo Petroleum Corp.’s Lemont,
Illinois plant, where a crude unit was shut by fire, and  BP
Plc (BP/) ’s Whiting, Indiana, complex, which will ramp up after
starting a new coker.  “We have big apportionments again on pipelines, on
Enbridge for example,” David Bouckhout, senior commodity
strategist for Toronto-Dominion Bank, said in an interview from
Calgary. “That’s obviously going to keep some supplies building
up back in  Alberta . That’s going to weigh on pricing again.”  Western Canadian Select slid $2.50 a barrel to a $40
discount against WTI at 4:16 p.m. in New York, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It was the widest differential since Jan.
14. Canadian Syncrude, a light oil processed from heavy crude,
weakened $2 a barrel to a $15 discount to the U.S. benchmark,
the lowest level since Mar. 13, 2012.  Enbridge Lines  Enbridge apportioned Line 4, which carries as much as
796,000 barrels a day of crude to Superior, Wisconsin, from
Edmonton, Alberta, by 13 percent for the month of November. Two
lines south from Superior also were apportioned.  West Texas crudes strengthened against WTI after a refinery
that processes high-sulfur oil finished maintenance.  WTS, a medium-density crude priced in Midland, Texas,
gained $1.50 a barrel to a discount of $4.25 a barrel below WTI
in Cushing,  Oklahoma . WTI in Midland, Texas, gained $1.25 a
barrel against the crude in Cushing, to a discount of $3.25.  Phillips 66 (PSX)  finished planned work at the Borger refinery in
Texas,  Rich Johnson , a Houston-based spokesman for the company,
said yesterday by e-mail. The refinery processes primarily
medium, sour crude delivered through pipelines from western
Texas, the Texas Panhandle, Wyoming and Canada, according to the
company’s website.  Midland is the closest hub to the Permian Basin, the
largest oil field in the U.S. at more than 1.2 million barrels a
day, according to the Energy Information Administration.  After hovering near parity with WTI in Cushing for most of
this year, Midland prices fell in October amid refinery
maintenance and pipeline constraints.  Magellan Midstream Partners LP (MMP)  plans to avoid any downtime
this quarter or next for its Longhorn pipeline, which did pump
work in the third quarter, Chief Executive Officer Mike Mears
said during a third-quarter earnings call yesterday. The line
carries crude to Houston from western Texas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliot Caroom in  New York  at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  