-- Wife Poisoning Husband’s Lover Tests Weapons Law at High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-11-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/wife-poisoning-husband-s-lover-tests-weapons-law-at-high-court.html
What began as attempted revenge for
marital infidelity has turned into a U.S.  Supreme Court  showdown
over the power of the federal government.  The  high court  will hear arguments on Nov. 5 in the case of
Carol Anne Bond, a microbiologist who tried to poison her
husband’s lover -- and was prosecuted under a U.S. law enacted
to implement a chemical-weapons treaty. Bond says her crime is a
local one that never should have involved federal prosecutors.  The case poses the most important test of the federal
government’s authority since the Supreme Court upheld President
 Barack Obama ’s health-care law last year.  “The case is hugely important because it’s about a
fundamental principle of constitutional law, which is limited
federal power,” said Nicholas Quinn Rosenkranz, a Georgetown
University Law Center professor.  Bond, a Pennsylvania woman, is challenging a 1920 high
court ruling that said Congress can use its constitutional power
to implement treaties as a mechanism to regulate local conduct.  The Obama administration, backed by the  chemical industry ,
defends the prosecution and the 1920 ruling. The administration
says Bond’s argument would undermine the president’s ability to
strike agreements with other countries and cut against a
centuries-old understanding of the Constitution’s treaty power.  “In international affairs, the federal government has
complete sovereignty and acts on behalf of all the citizens of
the nation,” U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli argued in
court papers. “And it follows from the national government’s
exclusive power to make treaties that it must have the power to
ensure treaty compliance.”  Enraged Wife  Those weighty constitutional questions come to the court
through a tale worthy of a soap opera.  Bond was thrilled when she learned in 2006 that her closest
friend, Myrlinda Haynes, was pregnant. That excitement turned to
rage when Bond discovered that her husband, Clifford Bond, was
the father.  Bond, who worked for the chemical maker Rohm & Haas Co.
outside Philadelphia, then stole a bottle of an arsenic-based
substance from her employer. She used the Internet to order a
second toxic chemical, potassium dichromate, which is commonly
used in printing photographs.  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  bought Rohm &
Haas in 2009.  24 Tries  Bond, now 42, tried to poison Haynes 24 times over the next
several months, spreading the chemicals on her doorknob, car
door handles and mailbox. Although Haynes usually noticed the
substances and avoided touching them, on one occasion she
suffered a chemical burn on her thumb. Postal inspectors
eventually installed surveillance cameras and identified Bond as
the perpetrator.  Federal prosecutors then charged her with violating the
1998 Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation Act,  a law  that
carries out a 1997 treaty covering the development, production,
stockpiling and use of chemical weapons. The treaty, which
supplements an earlier accord that applies in wartime, was
designed in part to protect against the use of chemicals by
terrorists.  Bond pleaded guilty and was sentenced to six years in
prison, while reserving her right to appeal and try to overturn
the conviction. Had she been prosecuted under Pennsylvania state
law for assault, she would have served no more than two years
and one month, according to  Paul Clement , the lawyer who will be
arguing on her behalf. She was released from prison last year.  Second Try  Clement, who was solicitor general under President  George W. Bush , said in court papers that Bond’s circumstances “are
far removed from the United States’ treaty obligations or any
issues of national or international importance.”  Bond’s case is before the Supreme Court for the second
time. The justices  ruled  in 2011 that she had the legal right to
challenge her conviction as unconstitutional.  Richard Pildes, a  New York  University law professor, said
the U.S. Constitution’s framers created a broad treaty power to
address what he calls the “Treaty of Paris problem.”  That 1783 accord, which ended the Revolutionary War,
promised respect for the property rights of people who had been
loyal to the British king. States ignored that guarantee,
seizing Loyalist property and reneging on debts to British
creditors. At the time, the states were bound only by the
Articles of Confederation, the loose agreement that preceded the
Constitution.  U.S. Promises  “This was actually one of the central problems with the
Articles of Confederation,” Pildes said. “The  United States 
could not make credible promises to other countries because the
enforcement of those promises depended on whether the states did
or didn’t agree.”  The 1920 Supreme Court case, Missouri v. Holland, centered
on a law implementing a treaty to protect birds that migrated
between the U.S. and  Canada . Missouri challenged the law,
arguing that a treaty can’t be used to expand Congress’s powers.  Writing for the court, Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes
rejected that contention. While “the great body of private
relations usually fall within the control of the state,” Holmes
wrote, “a treaty may override its power.”  Bond says the court may have to overrule the Holland
decision, an outcome that Rosenkranz, whose 2005 law review
article sparked a drive to overturn the 93-year-old ruling, says
would eliminate a constitutional anomaly.  No Limits  “It’s a basic axiom of our Constitution that Congress has
limited legislative power,” Rosenkranz said. “But if Missouri
v. Holland is right, then there really are no limits. The
president and Senate can use treaties to increase Congress’s
power at will.”  The justices have at least two options should they wish to
duck that constitutional question.  Clement says the court should interpret the chemical-weapons law so that it applies only to “warlike conduct,” and
not to Bond’s actions.  Another possibility is one suggested by Verrilli: upholding
the law and Bond’s conviction without addressing the reach of
the treaty power. Verrilli contends the law also is a legitimate
use of Congress’s constitutional authority over interstate
commerce because it is part of a larger effort to promote the
legitimate trade in toxic chemicals.  The American Chemistry Council, a Washington-based group
that represents the industry, is making similar  arguments  in
support of the law.  Given the stakes, Pildes says the justices may be happy to
adopt one of those narrower options.  “It would not be surprising if they searched for some
acceptable way of avoiding a final resolution of the profound
question at the bottom” of the case, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  