-- Twitter, Frackers, Apple Inside Tales Revealed: Books
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 2013-11-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/twitter-frackers-apple-inside-tales-revealed-books.html
An inside look at Twitter and advice
from Facebook’s Randi Zuckerberg will both hit the bookstores
this month. Here are some November highlights:  “ American Mirror: The Life and Art of Norman Rockwell ” by
Deborah Solomon (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, Nov. 5). Rockwell has
long been seen as an illustrator whose work was well outside the
fine-art mainstream. Now his life has been written by the
biographer of Abstract Expressionist  Jackson Pollock .  “ The Bully Pulpit: Theodore Roosevelt, William Howard Taft
and the Golden Age of Journalism ” by Doris Kearns Goodwin
( Simon & Schuster , Nov. 5). A century ago, President  Theodore
Roosevelt  cultivated the press to get his ideas across --
creating the notion of the presidency as a “bully pulpit.”
Pulitzer Prize-winning historian Goodwin explores the
Progressive Era, which has so many parallels to our own time.  “ Buying In ” by Laura Hemphill (New Harvest, Nov. 5). This
first novel by a veteran of  Lehman Brothers  and Credit Suisse
tells of a small-town girl on  Wall Street .  “ Civilian Warriors: The Inside Story of Blackwater and the
Unsung Heroes of the War on Terror ” by Erik Prince
(Portfolio/Penguin, Nov. 18). Blackwater’s founder and former
chief executive officer promises a revealing look at the
secretive military contractor.  “ Dot Complicated: Untangling Our Wired Lives ” by Randi
Zuckerberg (HarperOne, Nov. 5).  Mark Zuckerberg ’s sister -- a
former Facebook marketing executive -- gives advice on balancing
technology with life.  ‘The Frackers’  “ The Frackers: The Outrageous Inside Story of the New
Billionaire Wildcatters ” by  Gregory Zuckerman 
(Portfolio/Penguin, Nov. 5). Wall Street Journal writer
Zuckerman explores the rapid development of the hydraulic-fracturing method of natural-gas extraction, the fortunes that
have been made and lost, and the debate over the environmental
impact.  “ Hatching Twitter: A True Story of Money, Power,
Friendship and Betrayal ” by Nick Bilton (Portfolio/Penguin,
Nov. 5). Just in time for the IPO, New York Times columnist
Bilton recounts the story of Twitter’s four founders and their
fight for control of the company.  “ Jony Ive: The Genius Behind Apple’s Greatest Products ”
by Leander Kahney (Portfolio/Penguin, Nov. 14). The cover mimics
Walter Isaacson’s bestselling biography of  Steve Jobs  -- close-up of a face, all done in black and white. Jony Ive is the
designer behind Apple’s distinctive look, and the design of this
biography is sure to grab fans’ attention.  “ The Mortgage Wars: Inside Fannie Mae, Big-Money Politics
and the Collapse of the American Dream ” by Timothy Howard
(McGraw-Hill, Nov. 29). Howard worked at  Fannie Mae  for more
than 20 years, until 2004, rising to vice chairman and chief
financial officer.  Nora Ephron  “ The Most of Nora Ephron ” (Knopf, Nov. 4). In one big
package: Ephron’s novel-with-recipes, “Heartburn”; the
screenplay for “When Harry Met Sally”; and her bitingly smart
and funny essays on journalism, feminism and her aging neck.  “ My Mistake ” by Daniel Menaker (Houghton Mifflin
Harcourt, Nov. 19). Menaker has spent a life with words as an
editor at the  New Yorker  and  Random House . Now he takes us
behind the scenes with William Shawn (who didn’t like him), Tina Brown (who gets her husband, Harry Evans, to hire him so she can
get rid of him) and a parade of writers.  Long Walk  “ The New York Nobody Knows: Walking 6000 Miles in the
City ” by William B. Helmreich (Princeton University Press, out
now).  City University  of New York professor Helmreich walked
virtually every block in all five boroughs, talking to people as
he went.  “ This Is the Story of a Happy Marriage ” by  Ann Patchett 
(Harper, Nov. 5). The best-selling author of “Bel Canto” now
collects her essays, including a piece about starting up an
independent bookstore, Parnassus, in Nashville.  “ The Valley of Amazement ” by Amy Tan (Ecco, Nov. 5). The
author of “The Joy Luck Club” returns with her first novel in
eight years -- the story of an American madam in turn-of-the-20th-century Shanghai.  (Laurie Muchnick is the book editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans and Craig Seligman  on
movies.  To contact the writer on the story:
Laurie Muchnick in New York at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 