-- Won Falls Most in a Week on Fed Tapering Bets; Bonds Decline
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-11-01T02:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/won-falls-most-in-a-week-on-fed-tapering-bets-bonds-decline.html
South Korea’s won fell the most in a
week on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will start reining in
its asset purchases as the  U.S. economy  improves.  Government
bonds  declined.  Foreign investors sold more South Korean stocks than they
bought yesterday for the first time since Aug. 22, after pumping
in $13.2 billion in a record 44-day run of net purchases. The
won rose 5.7 percent in the past three months, prompting
authorities to warn against “herd behavior.” The U.S. economy
is showing signs of “underlying strength,” the  Federal Open
Market Committee  said Oct. 30, while keeping the $85 billion of
stimulus that has driven funds to  emerging markets .  “After the FOMC’s positive tone on the economy,
speculation rose on the timing of the Fed tapering,” said Hong Seok Chan, a currency analyst at Daishin Economy Research
Institute in Seoul. “Foreign fund flows into equities have
slowed, the authorities’ warnings against the won’s gains may
have damped sentiment.”  The won fell 0.3 percent to 1,063.35 per dollar as of 10:36
a.m. in Seoul, the biggest drop since Oct. 24, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency slipped 0.1 percent for the
week. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose 29 basis points
today and lost four basis points from Oct. 25 to 5.92 percent.  Exports, Prices  Exports from Asia’s fourth-largest economy advanced 7.3
percent in October from a year earlier, the Trade Ministry said
today, exceeding the median forecast for a 2.3 percent gain in a
Bloomberg survey. The nation’s consumer price climbed 0.7
percent, the least in data going back to 1999, official data
showed today.  “We are increasingly uncomfortable with the prolonged
disinflation regime and are concerned about the risk of running
into deflation in the near term,” Raymond Yeung, Hong Kong-based senior economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd., wrote in a research note today.  The yield on the government’s 2.75 percent sovereign bonds
due June 2016 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
today and three basis points this week to 2.83 percent,
according to Korea Exchange Inc. prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  