-- World Risks Exceeding Carbon Budget, Worsening Climate
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-11-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/world-risks-exceeding-carbon-budget-worsening-climate.html
The world risks blowing through its
carbon budget in 21 years, threatening to cause global warming
of more than double the threshold deemed safe by the  United
Nations , the global accounting firm PwC said today in a study.  The budget is the amount of  greenhouse gases  the world can
emit by 2100 to cap the temperature rise at 2 degrees Celsius
(3.6 degrees Fahrenheit). CO2 emitted per unit of economic
output fell at 0.7 percent per year from 2007 through 2012, less
than an eighth of the required rate now needed, PwC said.  “G20 countries are still consuming fossil fuels like
there’s no tomorrow,” PwC Sustainability & Climate Change
Director Jonathan Grant said in an e-mailed statement. “The
results raise real questions about the viability of our vast
fossil fuel reserves, and the way we power our economy. The 2-degrees carbon budget is simply not big enough to cope with the
unmitigated exploitation of these reserves.”  World leaders endorsed the 2-degree target as the scale of
temperature increase from the start of the industrial era that’s
acceptable before more dangerous impacts occur. Those include
rising seas, more intense storms and shifting rainfall patterns.  Envoys from 190 nations are aiming to craft a treaty by
2015 that will put the planet on a path to limit warming to 2
degrees. The pact would replace the  Kyoto Protocol , which was
negotiated in 1997 and regulates the greenhouse gases in a group
of industrial nations that now are responsible for less than 15
percent of global emissions.  A number of “silver bullets” identified for large-scale
decarbonization, including nuclear power and carbon capture and
storage, appear to be failing, PwC said. Cheap shale gas, which
has helped lower U.S. emissions by replacing coal, displaced
dirtier coal to other markets, including  Europe , according to
the consultant.  Among G20 nations,  Argentina , the U.S. and  Australia 
achieved the biggest average annual reductions in the carbon
intensity over the 5 years through 2012, PwC found. Intensity
rose in Saudi Arabia, Brazil,  South Korea , Mexico and  Japan .  PwC used carbon figures outlined in a report in September
by the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on  Climate Change . Under a
scenario outlined there that would keep temperature gains below
2 degrees, countries can emit about 270 billion tons of carbon
through 2100.  To achieve that, they would need to decarbonize at 6
percent a year, PwC said. Even doubling the current rate to 1.4
percent a year would lead to warming of more than 4 degrees.  “On current trends we will use up this century’s carbon
budget by 2034 -- sixty six years early,” Leo Johnson, a
partner at PwC, said in the report’s foreword. “Put simply, we
are busting the carbon budget.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  