-- World’s Biggest Wealth Fund Says Record Size Is Posing Hurdles
-- B y   J o n a s   B e r g m a n
-- 2013-11-01T14:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/world-s-biggest-wealth-fund-says-record-size-is-posing-hurdles.html
Norway ’s $810 billion sovereign
wealth fund, the world’s largest, is finding its record size is
becoming a hurdle that’s complicating its investment decisions.  “The challenge that we have, and we have already
experienced, is the size,” Petter Johnsen, chief investment
officer for equities at fund, said today after a speech in
Gjoevik, north of Oslo. “The fund has grown very fast during a
short time.”  Before taking office after September elections, Prime
Minister Erna Solberg said she would consider splitting up
Europe’s largest equity investor to help make it more
competitive. The fund, also known as the Government Pension Fund
Global, has quadrupled in size since 2005 and will grow another
50 percent by 2020, according to government estimates.  “There’s a strong need to renew ourselves relative to how
we think about investments strategies, and we have to think a
lot about the special characteristics of the fund: the size, its
long-term outlook, how we can take advantage of that to a larger
extent.”  The fund returned 5 percent in the third quarter, it said
on Oct. 25. Its stock holdings advanced 7.6 percent while bond
investments climbed 0.3 percent. Real estate investments
returned 4.1 percent.  Norway generates money for the fund from taxes on oil and
gas, ownership of petroleum fields and dividends from its 67
percent stake in  Statoil ASA (STL) , the country’s largest energy
company. Norway is western Europe’s largest oil and gas
producer. The fund, which had an average holding of 1.2 percent
of the world’s listed companies at the end of 2012, invests
abroad to avoid stoking domestic inflation.  Government Guidelines  The investor, which gets its guidelines from the
government, held 63.6 percent in stocks at the end of September,
up from 63.4 percent in the second quarter. Bond holdings slid
to 35.5 percent from 35.7 percent while real estate accounted
for 0.9 percent. The fund is mandated to hold 60 percent in
stocks, 35 percent in bonds and is building up to 5 percent in
real estate, while allowing for fluctuations. It mostly follows
global indexes and has some leeway to stray from those
benchmarks.  Yngve Slyngstad, chief executive officer at the Oslo-based
investor, said last week the fund won’t use new inflows to buy
more stocks as he predicted a “correction” in prices.  The fund is still “rebalancing” its investment focus as
it shifts away from  Europe , Johnsen said. The strategy will
remain one of “counter-cyclical” purchases, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  