-- MMX Rallies After Closing Sale of Chile Assets to Cooper Mining
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-11-01T15:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/mmx-rallies-after-closing-sale-of-chile-assets-to-cooper-mining.html
MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the
mining company founded by former billionaire  Eike Batista , rose
the most on the Ibovespa after concluding the sale of its assets
in Chile to Inversiones Cooper Mining SA.  MMX  rose  4.7 percent to 89 centavos at 1:53 p.m. in Sao
Paulo, extending its two-day gain to 47 percent. The Ibovespa
index  declined  0.8 percent today  “Investors are concerned about Batista’s companies, but
there are good businesses worth saving,” Sandro Fernandes, a
trader at the brokerage firm Geraldo Correa, said in a phone
interview from Belo Horizonte, Brazil. “Today’s rally on MMX
shows people believe it can rebound.”  Under the agreement with Cooper Mining, MMX will get
quarterly royalty payments from its Chilean assets of 80 cents
per ton of dry  iron ore , up to a cumulative $40 million,
according to a regulatory filing today.  Trafigura Beheer BV, the world’s second-biggest metals
trader, and Mubadala Development Co., the Abu Dhabi sovereign
wealth fund, agreed last month to buy a 65 percent stake in the
unit of MMX that controls the Sudeste port in Rio de Janeiro
state by paying $400 million and assuming debt.  Batista, 56, has sold stakes this year in his power-generation, oil and shipping ventures and relinquished control
of his port developer  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3)  after missed output
targets triggered a collapse in the valuation of his companies,
erasing most of his fortune.  Oil producer  OGX Petroleo (OGXP3)  & Gas Participacoes SA, the
centerpiece of Batista’s commodities group, filed for bankruptcy
protection Oct. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  