-- Xstrata Paid Bonuses in December for Glencore Takeover
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h ,   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n   a n d   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-11-01T16:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-01/xstrata-paid-bonuses-in-december-for-glencore-takeover.html
Xstrata Plc awarded some executives
bonuses last December to mark the takeover by  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN) , two weeks after shareholders rejected
retention payments exceeding $200 million.  Details of the payments, termed “transaction bonuses,”
came to light in a  London  lawsuit against Glencore filed by
Richard Paul Elliston, a former Xstrata company secretary. While
Elliston was paid a transaction bonus of 487,925 pounds
($783,000), he is claiming that he should also have been paid
419,000 pounds as severance when he was required to resign from
the mining and commodities trading company in August.  Two weeks before the bonuses were awarded, Xstrata
investors voted to block a plan to distribute 144 million pounds
of retention payments to about 70 managers. That opposition led
to the early departures of Xstrata directors including Chief
Executive Officer  Mick Davis  and Chairman  John Bond . Xstrata
investors agreed to approve the $29 billion takeover by Glencore
at the Nov. 20 shareholder vote.  “The task of achieving a merger between Xstrata and
Glencore has brought with it many hurdles along the way and has
been a real test of our character to rise up and meet such
obstacles,” Davis wrote in a Dec. 4 letter to Elliston,
included in the court documents, made public this week.  “I would like to thank you for the contribution you have
made to get Xstrata to this point of the merger and am pleased
to inform you that you have been awarded a transaction bonus,”
Davis wrote.  Biggest Shareholder  Glencore, based in Baar,  Switzerland  and the largest
shareholder in Xstrata prior to the takeover, with a 34 percent
holding, became aware of transaction bonuses after they were
paid, a person familiar with the situation said, asking not to
be identified as the awards are confidential.  Elliston said in court documents he was unaware he would
receive a transaction bonus until he got the letter from Davis
and that it was not a term of his employment that a transaction
bonus would replace the severance payment.  “It seems like a classic example of firms not wanting to
heed investors’ advice on pay,” said Luke Hildyard, head of
research at the High Pay Centre, a U.K. monitoring body set up
in 2009 after an inquiry into public and private sector
remuneration. “These payments should certainly be disclosed and
explained.”  Private Jet  Ivan Glasenberg became the CEO of the combined Glencore
Xstrata Plc, the world’s fourth-largest mining company. Among
the resigned senior Xstrata executives were  Charlie Sartain ,
head of copper, nickel CEO Ian Pearce, and interim CEO of
Xstrata alloys Loutjie Smit. Strategy and corporate affairs head
Thras Moraitis and chief legal counsel Benny Levene will leave
after acting as consultants for six months following the
completion of the deal in May.  Davis was paid 4.63 million pounds after terminating an
agreement to be CEO of the combined group for six months,
Glencore said in April. Davis acted as a consultant to the group
until June 30 and was entitled to 30 hours of private use of an
Xstrata aircraft in lieu of a consultancy fee, it said.  Glencore dropped 2.3 percent to 332.25 pence by the close
in London. The FTSE 350 Mining Index declined 0.9 percent.  The case is: Richard Paul Elliston v. Glencore Services
(UK) Ltd., case no. 13-4837,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s
 Bench Division .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  