-- Abercrombie & Fitch Jumps After Raising Profit Forecast
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-11-14T21:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/abercrombie-fitch-jumps-after-raising-profit-forecast.html
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF) , the teen
apparel retailer with more than 1,000 stores, surged the most
since its initial public offering after boosting its full-year
profit forecast.  The shares  jumped  34 percent to $41.92 at the close in  New
York , the biggest one-day gain since its IPO in September 1996.
The  New Albany , Ohio-based retailer had  dropped  36 percent this
year through yesterday, compared with a 9.3 percent increase in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The company, which also owns the Southern California-style
Hollister stores, raised the forecast for the year after
exceeding its estimates in the third quarter. Sales in the
period ended Oct. 27 rose 9 percent to $1.17 billion,  including 
a 37 percent increase internationally and a 20 percent gain
online, making up for flat U.S. sales, according to an investor
presentation on its website.  In the first two quarters, “we were on the defense because
we had too much inventory and we weren’t flowing newness, so
that’s the biggest change,” Chief Executive Officer Michael Jeffries said in an earnings call today. “We’re also working
hard to be different by brand.”  Full-year profit will be $2.85 to $3 a share, up from the
$2.50 to $2.75 a share predicted in August, Abercrombie said in
a statement today. Analysts projected $2.50, the average of 32
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales Strategies  “We are encouraged that improvements are being driven by
both sales and expense level strategies, and we think further
refinements in merchandising and assortment planning and
operating expense structure will augment leverage gains,”
Stephanie Wissink, an analyst at Minneapolis-based Piper Jaffray
Cos. with the equivalent of a buy rating on the shares, wrote in
a note today.  Abercrombie was the top performer in the S&P 500 today.  Comparable store sales at Abercrombie fell 3 percent in the
period and 6 percent in the past three quarters, according to
today’s presentation. Revenue at U.S. stores fell 2.2 percent to
$709.4 million in the third quarter, according to the
presentation, while increasing 15 percent online.  Abercrombie anticipates a “mid-single digit percentage
decrease” in comparable store sales in the fourth quarter with
a “slightly higher” gross margin rate relative to the rest of
the year, according to today’s statement. The forecast includes
the impact of  Hurricane Sandy , Chief Financial Officer Jonathan Ramsden said in today’s earnings call.  In August, the retailer reported an 8 percent decline in
same-store sales in the six months ended in July, and forecast a
10 percent fall for the second half of the year.  The company’s gross margin for the third-quarter was 62.5
percent, compared with 60.1 percent a year earlier, according to
today’s presentation.  Third-quarter net income advanced 40 percent to $71.5
million, or 87 cents a share, from $50.9 million, or 57 cents, a
year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  