-- Making Sure Nonprofits Aren’t All About Profit
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-14T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/making-sure-nonprofits-aren-t-all-about-profit.html
The  fastest-growing  part of the  U.S.
economy  is not business, at least not the commercial kind. It’s
the nonprofit sector. In the past decade, the number of
nonprofit groups has grown by 25 percent to 1.6 million. They
now account for 5.4 percent of gross domestic product and 10
percent of jobs.  As the sector has boomed, however, government resources
devoted to overseeing it have either declined or stayed the
same. That has left considerable room for questionable
practices. In recent reports, Bloomberg Markets has explored
nonprofits’ use of dishonest solicitations by professional
fundraisers whose efforts primarily  benefit themselves , the
issue of high  executive compensation , and the matter of whether
groups even deserve to be tax exempt.  The American Bureau of Shipping, for instance, functions
like other companies that certify ships as seaworthy but enjoys
a  tax exemption  because  it’s registered as a nonprofit  trade
association. With $605.3 million in profits since 2004, it paid
its chief executive officer $21.5 million over seven years.  Nonprofits fall under the jurisdiction of both the  Internal
Revenue Service  and state authorities, notably the attorneys
general.  One barrier  to effective oversight is that AGs lack
access to IRS information about ongoing investigations. An
amendment to the federal tax law lifting that proscription would
improve coordination.  Scant Resources  More important, both federal and state regulators need
greater resources.  Never a colossus , the IRS’s Exempt
Organizations Division at its height had 950 staff members. It’s
down to 860 today and  still shrinking . By having more members of
this staff focus on the task, the division has, since 2003,
doubled the number of audits to determine whether nonprofits
continue to qualify for tax exemption, to 11,699 in fiscal 2011.
Still, that represents an audit rate of 0.7 percent, compared
with  1.5 percent  for corporate returns.  State officials  typically police such matters as donation
solicitations and the fiduciary responsibilities of corporate
officers. All 50 states have enacted statutes governing the
creation and operation of nonprofit corporations. Yet there has
been no significant increase in the number of state officials
assigned to enforce the rules. What’s more,  attorneys general 
 might not make  nonprofits regulation a priority.  In this time of shrinking state budgets and ballooning
federal debt, where can more money for oversight be found? And
how can attorneys general be motivated to act?  It happens that a source for funds was long ago promised
for just this purpose. As part of the Tax Reform Act of 1969,
Congress imposed an excise tax on private foundations’
investment income to pay for nonprofit oversight by the IRS. To
the dismay of many in the sector, the money has never been
designated for that purpose. Funding for the IRS Exempt
Organizations Division is just a fraction of the amount the tax
brings in.  The tax proceeds should be earmarked for oversight as
originally planned. The IRS should receive enough funding to
audit nonprofit filings at least as often as it does individual
returns, at the rate of 1 percent a year. The remainder of the
excise tax revenue should be allocated to state attorneys
general, according to the size of each state’s nonprofit sector,
to encourage them to make regulating nonprofits a higher
priority. To receive funds, AGs should be required to dedicate
staff to the job. A dozen states have such special nonprofit
units, though many are poorly financed.  Since proceeds from the excise tax can stretch only so far,
state enforcers need their own funding streams, as well -- the
money could come from annual nonprofit registration fees.  While nonprofits would not like the extra expense, it could
make possible the kind of reform that is needed to maintain
public confidence in all of them.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 