-- Halloween Concert Deaths Probe Forces Madrid Resignation
-- B y   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 2012-11-14T15:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/halloween-concert-deaths-probe-forces-madrid-resignation.html
Pedro Calvo, a  Madrid  official who
headed the company that managed the arena where four women were
killed in a Halloween concert stampede, resigned from his posts
with the city government.  Calvo, who quit as non-executive chairman of the municipal
company that manages the Madrid Arena, also stepped down as
third-deputy mayor with responsibility for economy and
employment, according to a City Hall statement yesterday. Calvo
had also served as the spokesman for Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s  People’s Party  within the city government.  The press department for the city’s economy division didn’t
respond to an e-mail request today to interview Calvo.  The Superior Court of the capital said Nov. 12 that it
planned to investigate the city official responsible for leasing
the arena for the Oct. 31 concert, without naming the official.
The management company Calvo ran was responsible for signing
contracts with the Halloween event’s organizers, the court said
in a statement today.  Miguel Angel Flores, identified as the chief of Diviertt,
the organizer of the event, will also be called to testify on
Nov. 20, the court said. Legal representatives of two related
companies will also be declared suspects, according to a Nov. 12
statement from the court.  Calls by  Bloomberg News  to Diviertt, a private Madrid
company that manages concerts, went unanswered today.  Videos shot after midnight on Halloween night in the Madrid
Arena hallway, where the women died, show a scene of mayhem. At
one point more than 100 people were unable to move and many were
piled atop one another.  Police and the courts are investigating what drove the
crowd of mostly young people to rush toward an exit, crushing
the four victims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd White  in Madrid at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Coulter at   tcoulter@bloomberg.net . 