-- Talvivaara Investors Face Dilution in Bond Payment Bid
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-11-14T13:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/talvivaara-investors-face-dilution-in-bond-payment-bid.html
Talvivaara Mining Co. (TALV) , the Finnish
nickel miner beset by environmental problems and slipping
production targets, may fail to raise new debt to repay a bond
maturing next year.  Instead, the company whose debt exceeds its equity by 64
percent, may seek funding by selling new shares, leaving its
existing owners worse off.  “It’s almost certain the company will have to carry out a
strongly diluting rights issue or its creditors will take over
the company through a debt restructuring,” Markus Liimatainen,
an equity analyst at FIM Bank Oyj in Helsinki, said by phone on
Nov. 12. “I don’t see them being able to issue a bond right
now, other than perhaps a hybrid one with an extremely high
 interest rate .”  Talvivaara’s funding dilemma has been exacerbated by
falling profits and reduced cash flow after nickel prices
plunged to the lowest in three years. Heavy rains have also
hampered production.  The Espoo, Finland-based company discovered a leak in its
mine’s waste-water pond on Nov. 4 and today said it has stemmed
the flow of liquid that contains nickel, zinc and 50 times more
uranium than normal. Its metals production has been halted since
the breach in the gypsum pond was found. The metal discharges
may harm wildlife in the lakes, while the radiation levels pose
no harm to humans.  Public Funds  Marko Kyyroenen, portfolio manager at Quorum Fund
Management in Helsinki, is betting the public funds invested in
the miner’s bonds mean the company won’t be allowed to fail. He
holds the 5.25 percent 2013 securities and last added to the
holding on Nov. 9.  “The bonds are stressed and yields remarkably high,”
Kyyroenen said. “The company is in a complete crisis. The
attractiveness of the bonds comes from its solid ownership base.
I consider the risk of permanent closure almost non-existent.”  The leak follows production hurdles at the company, which
said on Oct. 15 it was unlikely to meet a full-year target of
17,000 metric tons of nickel output because excess water at the
Sotkamo mine had diluted metal grades in the leaching process.  Talvivaara has forecast that fourth-quarter production will
be higher than the 4,030 tons in the third. That projection will
be reviewed after a start-up date for production is known, the
company said today. Shares rose as much as 18 percent in
Helsinki trading, before paring the gain to 15 percent, or 1.24
euros, at 3:06 p.m. The stock has lost 50 percent in 2012.  Constant Dialogue  “We are looking into a range of financing options,” Saila Miettinen-Laehde, chief financial officer at Talvivaara, said
yesterday by phone. “We are in constant dialogue” with “a
wide variety of parties, not only bankers, a wide variety of
contacts,” she said.  Talvivaara has 76.9 million euros ($97.9 million) of 5.25
percent senior unsecured securities maturing on May 20, and pays
29 million euros in interest on its debt this year and the next,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The situation is challenging enough that issuing a
traditional bond may be difficult, due to weak  cash flow  and
high indebtedness,” Riikka Tuominen, a credit analyst at Nordea
Bank AB in Helsinki, said in an interview yesterday. Refinancing
the 2013 bond “will be quite tight, there’s not much leeway for
negative surprises anymore,” she said.  Financing Options  Talvivaara said on Nov. 8 it is considering financing
options, including debt, convertible bonds, royalty streams and
equity. It hadn’t made a “formal decision,” according to its
third-quarter earnings statement. Talvivaara’s total  debt-to-
equity  ratio rose to 164 percent last quarter from 137 percent a
year ago.  “Its balance sheet is already weak,” Liimatainen said. He
recommends clients reduce holdings of the stock. “To lower
gearing to 100 percent, Talvivaara needs about 150 million euros
of cash.”  The yield on Talvivaara’s 2013 bond fell to 18.8 percent
today from 20.7 percent yesterday. It yielded 12.6 percent a
week ago and 5.9 percent on May 2. The company’s 4 percent 2015
bond also declined to 23.1 percent from yesterday’s 26 percent.
That compares with a low of 9.56 percent on April 6. Talvivaara
has 225 million euros of the securities outstanding.  “Debt investors are concerned that the company’s liquidity
is not sufficient,” Tuominen at Nordea said. “Improving  cash
flow  would pacify creditors.”  Default Risk  The company’s one-year default risk has risen to 3.92
percent, consistent with the  second-lowest  junk grade, according
to the Bloomberg default risk scale. The risk was at 0.67
percent in December, signaling the top high-yield grade.  “Our first and foremost target right now is to stabilize
the operational situation and hopefully start the plant as soon
as possible, which will hopefully then generate us money rather
than spending it,” Miettinen-Laehde said.  The cost of nickel has declined to $15,980 a metric ton on
the London Metal Exchange from as high as $29,281 a ton on
February 2011.  Norilsk Nickel  buys all of Talvivaara’s nickel
and cobalt output in a 10-year contract and Nyrstar NV purchases
zinc from the mine.  Talvivaara drew 70 million euros of its 130 million-euro
revolving credit facility in September, breaching some covenant
requirements, which were waived by banks, the company said on
Nov. 8. It reported a net loss of 11.3 million euros last
quarter, the third loss in a row.  Talvivaara postponed its investor meeting to an undisclosed
date from Nov. 20 as it deals with the waste-water leak,
according to the investor calendar on its website.  Biggest Owners  The company’s biggest holders include Chairman Pekka Pera,
with 20.7 percent and Solidium Oy, which manages the
shareholdings of the Finnish state. Pension funds Varma and
Ilmarinen also hold stakes. Solidium declined to comment on
Talvivaara’s funding, according to an e-mailed response to
questions.  Talvivaara first sold shares in 2007 in  London  before
seeking a secondary listing in Helsinki in 2009, and has  never
paid  a dividend.  “Debt investors’ position is relatively better compared
with shareholders, as we estimate that Talvivaara will seek
extra share capital,” Kyyroenen said. “Dilution for old
shareholders is coming.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  