-- Manchester United Resisted SEC on IPO Risk for Investors
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-11-14T22:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/manchester-united-resisted-sec-on-ipo-risk-for-investors.html
Manchester United Plc (MANU)  team owner
 Malcolm Glazer  is so loathed by fans that some once burned him
in effigy. They might hate him even more if they learn how he
tried to hide the true state of the soccer club’s finances
before its August initial public offering.  The struggle to keep secret the material risks the storied
team faces is detailed in  letters  between club executives and
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission before United’s
August IPO. The SEC demanded and got more disclosure about team
losses, debt and benefits for Glazer and members of his family.  What investors and fans weren’t able to see until a month
after the team raised $233 million selling shares, was the
owners’ behind-the-scenes resistance to disclosing more
transparent earnings data, details about Glazer’s debt and what
the IPO money was to be used for. The full story of the
 correspondence , posted on the SEC’s website without fanfare in
September, hasn’t been previously reported to investors or fans.  “The Glazer names are still toxic amongst hard-core United
fans who are well aware of what they’ve done to  Manchester
United ,” said Duncan Drasdo, who runs the 187,000-member
 Manchester United Supporters Trust  fan organization. “Despite
more recent purchases over their tenure they’ve created a
ticking time bomb of underinvestment in players.”  The SEC-United letters show seven Glazer family members
have kept almost total control of the club after the IPO,
saddling the team with higher taxes to evade potential
shareholder lawsuits by incorporating offshore.  Loss Reported  The club reported a loss in its first quarterly financial
results after the IPO as the team failed to win a trophy either
in domestic or European competition in 2012.  Today’s results show another quarter’s loss on operations
as debt costs continue to drain money, before a tax credit of
26.5 million pounds ($42 million). The credit enabled United to
report net income of 20.5 million pounds, or 13 pence a share.
The mean of two analysts’ estimates was a loss of 2 pence a
share.  “Focusing on the operating loss is important,” said  David Menlow , president of the independent research firm IPO Financial
Network, which specializes in companies going public.
“Investors will probably just look at the bottom line that will
show a net profit,” he said.  United, the world’s most valuable sports brand according to
Forbes magazine, cited a 32 percent increase in sponsorship
revenue after striking 10 new deals, including with  General
Motors Co. (GM) , Toshiba Medical Systems and  Banco Santander SA. (SAN)   Player Spending  Spending on players dropped to 29.5 million pounds, from
47.1 million pounds a year earlier, United said in an earnings
release. The team bought Shinji Kagawa and Nick Powell and made
the first of two staged payments for  Robin van Persie  in the
latest quarter.  Reported results were bolstered by one-time fees from nine
Olympic games played at United’s Old Trafford stadium, according
to the release. Debt fell after United used 68 million pounds of
IPO money to retire U.S. dollar debt.  The back-and-forth negotiations between the SEC and the
team are typical of the regulator’s reaction to an initial IPO
prospectus that is found wanting in alerting investors to the
risks of buying new shares.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  went through a similar set of forced
disclosures in its IPO earlier this year, adding new material
about the risks of its growing number of mobile customers, among
other things.  Several Rounds  “As with every SEC filer, we went through several rounds
of SEC comments,” said Phil Townsend, United’s director of
communications. “Our interaction with the SEC was very
positive, and we look forward to many, many years as a U.S.
public company.”  Townsend disputed Drasdo’s criticism about underinvestment
for players, saying the owners have been “totally supportive”
of the club’s legendary coach  Alex Ferguson .  “In the last eight years, the club has never finished
below second, has won the league four times and is currently
top,” he said.  On the pitch, Manchester’s United’s performance has been a
winning one. Post-IPO, United is top of the English F.A.
Barclays Premier League 11 games into this season, with nine
wins, two losses and no draws, after its defeat of Aston Villa
on Nov. 10.  Champions League  In the UEFA  Champions League , goals from Robin van Persie,
 Wayne Rooney  and  Javier Hernandez  in the final 10 minutes on
Nov. 7 in Portugal gave  David Beckham ’s former team a 3-1 win
against Braga. United has four wins and no losses in its group.  “They are the masters of reversing adversity toward the
end of the game,” said Manchester native Michael Burawoy, a
 University of California , Berkeley, sociology professor who says
he watches every United match no matter which country he’s in.
“They were completely outplayed by Braga until they got a lucky
break toward the end of the match.”  The SEC was less impressed with the way the team laid out
its finances in its initial IPO papers.  After a review, the agency made Glazer show the team hid
losses with a one-time tax credit and an 80 million-pound sale
of player Cristiano Ronaldo, according to correspondence posted
on the SEC website Sept. 7. The SEC forced Manchester United to
disclose how Glazer had repaid 10 million pounds borrowed from
the club by extracting the same amount from team coffers as a
dividend paid to him.  Glazer’s Worth  Glazer, now 84, is worth $3.6 billion according to Forbes,
based on his ownership of United and the U.S. National Football
League’s Tampa Bay Buccaneers. United fans burned him in effigy
outside the team’s Old Trafford stadium when his stake reached
75 percent in May 2005.  Fans complained his debt-financed takeover would hurt the
team and force fans to sell United shares. Even after he trimmed
debt, United’s 50 million-pound interest bill in the past year
equaled  capital spending  for players, filings show.  The Glazers took $110 million of the team’s IPO money,
using the rest to cut debt to 374 million pounds, according to
an Oct. 25 filing. Before the IPO, Glazer family members and
affiliates earned 16 million pounds in consulting fees from 2009
to 2011, while extracting the 10 million pounds in 2008 at 5.5
percent interest; one son earned 8 3/8 percent by investing in
United notes, filings show.  ‘Debt Machine’  “Malcolm Glazer and his descendants have turned Manchester
United into a heavily leveraged debt machine,” said Burawoy,
who started going to Old Trafford with his father when he was
seven or eight, he says. “When United’s run of success on the
football field comes to an end, as it surely will, then it will
become an economic disaster, but you can be sure the Glazers
will bail out beforehand.”  Success on the field and sponsorship deals with companies
such as  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and General Motors could take United to $17,
from $12.97 as of the close of trading today, Credit Suisse
Group AG analyst Michael Senno said in an Oct. 29 report. He is
one of at least five analysts with positive recommendations on
the stock, at firms that sold the Glazers’ shares to the public.
The stock fell one cent today in trading on the Nasdaq Stock
Market.  “On-field performance is the biggest swing factor” for
this year’s results, he said in the report.  The possible approaching retirement of Ferguson, 70,
United’s manager since 1986, who is credited with much of the
team’s success, may increase attention on the Glazers’ spending
for players.  Era’s End  “There’s a feeling the team is nearing the end of an
era,” said Drasdo, chief executive officer of the fans’
organization. “Anyone who came in would want to bring in his
own players.”  That would require investment in players to rival teams in
Madrid and Barcelona, he said. “And if United stops performing
well enough to keep themselves in the leagues, they would lose
commercial revenues. Companies like Nike and GM pay top dollar
only for the top performers.”  United’s  revenue  slipped to 320 million pounds in the year
ended June 30, from 331 million pounds a year earlier. Yet the
club’s visibility -- 4.2 billion people watched United games on
TV when it reached the European Cup finals in the 2010-2011
season -- helped draw Nike as a corporate partner that
contributed 33.8 million pounds to United revenue in fiscal
2012.  General Motors will pay $70 million or more a season to put
Chevrolet on the team’s jerseys starting in 2014, plus smaller
amounts before then.  Glazer ‘Lucky’  “Glazer has been quite lucky” in building his wealth from
United in recent years, said Andy Green, a U.K. financial
analyst who writes a  blog  on the team, andersred.blogspot.co.uk.
“The costs of the team have been high, but the revenue has been
high too.”  Soros Fund Management LLC, with 3.1 million shares costing
around $43.4 million at the IPO price of $14, is down about 8
percent or about $3.3 million. Billionaire  George Soros ’s firm
won’t comment on the investment, said spokesman  Michael Vachon .  United investors, like Facebook’s, must deal with a so-
called overhang as the Glazers’ 147 million remaining United
shares start to be eligible for sale about 180 days from the
issue of the offering prospectus.  Independent U.K. research firm PrivCo valued United at
$4.97 a share, saying in a September report that even winning
teams “don’t make winning investments.”  Worldwide Following  Founded in 1878, the team has won 60 trophies and gained
659 million so-called followers worldwide, attracting an average
of 49 million viewers for each of its 60 games in the 2010-2011
season, according to its prospectus. United is worth about $2.2
billion, ahead of Real Madrid’s $1.9 billion, according to
Forbes.  By comparison, the  New York  Yankees baseball team, tied
with the Dallas Cowboys NFL team as the most valuable U.S.
sports franchise, drew about 5 million viewers for Turner
Broadcasting System Inc.’s Oct. 14 telecast of its playoff game
against the Detroit Tigers, according to Turner.com.  The Yankees’ regional audience on YES Network this year is
about 355,000 people a game, the sports network said.  Glazer, who expanded his father’s watch business into
shopping malls, saddled United with 649 million pounds in
acquisition debt in 2005, when television revenue was declining
and the team faltering on the field. He later blamed two years
of United losses on interest and swap bills, telling the SEC the
business was “thriving.”  Loan Payments  About 200 million pounds of loans were paid in fiscal 2011.
After scrapping plans for a $1 billion Singapore Stock Exchange
offering, Glazer settled for raising $233.3 million through lead
underwriter  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , as some Manchester fans
boycotted team sponsors.  Malcolm Glazer’s name appeared just twice in a footnote of
a May 3 draft IPO prospectus, although the principal shareholder
was disclosed as “the Glazer family, who has a proven track
record of creating and developing value in sports brands,
including the NFL’s Tampa Bay Buccaneers.” The SEC made them
take out the reference to the Buccaneers. The selling
shareholder offering stock to the public wasn’t named until the
SEC demanded it, nor the “six lineal descendants” who
controlled affiliates of Red Football LLC, United’s parent
company, the regulator’s website shows.  United warned investors, “our principal shareholder will
be able to exert control over us and our significant corporate
decisions.”  Among SEC questions and demands for disclosure were how
many votes the Glazers’ Class B shares, with 10 votes to one for
A stock, would have for special board resolutions.  Governance, Control  Glazer’s team was told in a June 15 letter to explain the
family’s control of United “so that investors can clearly
understand.” United must also reveal names of Glazers who
borrowed from the team, how much and if they were officers or
directors, it said. Investors must know how Cayman Islands law
might prevent a change of control and benefit the Glazers,
according to the letter.  In amended filings through Aug. 3, investors were told
these things. The Glazers would have almost a 99 percent vote
for special resolutions, and minority shareholders would have
limited rights to sue them.  Along with sons Avram and Joel, executive co-chairmen,
Kevin and Bryan also were directors, along with David Gill,
chief executive officer, and Edward Woodward, the executive vice
chairman, revised filings said. Two more Glazer children have
joined the board.  Multiple Demands  The SEC had to make two or three demands for some
disclosures, including on Cayman law and operating losses.
Glazer’s team was summed up in the May 3 draft filing as “a
worldwide platform to generate significant revenue from multiple
sources, including sponsorship, merchandising, product
licensing, new media & mobile, broadcasting and match day.”
Broadcasting and match revenue were described as growing
consistently.  United in fact “would have lost money in two of the last
three years but for the extraordinary results due to the sale of
a player,” the SEC said on June 15.  When Glazer’s team said it “respectfully submits that the
company is thriving,” the SEC said it would have a loss in the
latest nine months, too, but for an unusual tax credit. United
was told to spell out the effects of all such items high up in
the filing, which it did.  Post-IPO, United reported a net loss of 15 million pounds
for the June 30 quarter, or 10 pence a share.  Executive Pay  The SEC tried and failed to make the team disclose how much
individual top executives and directors were paid, as U.S. law
requires, because United is governed by Cayman law. However, the
regulator did force disclosure that a lump sum of 4.3 million
pounds was buried in fiscal 2011 employee costs totaling about
153 million pounds. Some directors took no salary or bonuses
that year, Glazer’s team said in a revised filing.  Revised numbers in United’s 2012 annual report put key
management compensation at 7 million pounds, up from 5.3 million
in fiscal 2011.  Glazer’s team resisted saying exactly how it would spend
its share of the IPO money, until the SEC told it to revise its
filing again “to explain why you are conducting this
offering,” without a specific need. A July 3 disclosure told
investors that United would pay some debt, and how much would
remain afterward as a burden on the team.  “The Glazers are driving up revenues -- their commercial
deals are good,” said Drasdo, the head of the fan group. “But
if the money is not going to the club, it’s no use.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  