-- Manchester United Has Quarterly Profit Thanks to Tax Credit
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-11-14T16:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/manchester-united-has-quarterly-profit-helped-by-tax-credit.html
Manchester United  Plc, the record
19-time English soccer champion, posted a fiscal first-quarter
profit, made possible by a 26.5 million-pound ($42 million) tax
credit.  Net income was 20.5 million pounds, or 13 pence a share, in
the three months ended Sept. 30, compared with a net loss of 5
million pounds, or 3 pence, in the year-earlier period, the
company said today. Revenue rose 3.4 percent to a record 76.3
million pounds as the team entered 10 new sponsorship deals and
hosted nine Olympic soccer matches at its Old Trafford stadium.  The results are the first to cover the team’s time as a
publicly traded company after the initial public offering on the
 New York  Stock Exchange in August. The float allowed the owners,
the U.S.-based Glazer family, to raise $233.3 million by selling
10 percent of the 134-year-old club at $14 per share, below the
initial marketed range of as much as $20.  The shares declined 7.3 percent before today and were
little changed at $13.00 at 11 a.m. in New York trading.  “Manchester United had a record first quarter, driven by
our commercial operation, which continues to experience
extremely strong global revenue growth in new media and mobile,
retail merchandising and sponsorship,” Executive Vice Chairman
Ed Woodward said in the earnings statement.  Debt Reduced  Gross debt declined 17 percent to 359.7 million pounds,
while cash and equivalents fell 19 percent to 52.5 million
pounds, the team said. United bought and retired 62.6 million
pounds of senior secured notes. It had said it would use half
the proceeds of the IPO to reduce debt.  United holds a two-point lead on title-holder  Manchester
City  in the Premier League, and has also qualified for the
knockout stages of the Champions League after winning all four
group games it’s played. Last season it failed to advance into
the latter stages, hurting its stadium and broadcast income.  The team has been boosted by its commercial division.
Revenue rose 24 percent to 43 million pounds following deals
with companies such as  Japan ’s Shinsei Bank Ltd. and Toshiba
Medical Systems after the signing of Japanese midfielder Shinji
Kagawa before the season. A deal with Japanese drinks
manufacturer Kagome was struck by staff at a new Hong Kong sales
office that opened in August, Woodward said on a conference
call.  Chevrolet Deal  United also benefited from its first payments from a record
$559 million deal with General Motors Co., whose Chevrolet brand
will sponsor the team’s jersey from 2014. Match-day income rose
13 percent to 19.6 million pounds mainly because the team hosted
nine matches during the London Olympics.  Those gains were offset by a 37 percent fall in broadcast
income to 13.7 million pounds. United appeared in two fewer live
Premier League games on U.K. television and one fewer  Champions
League  match because of a calendar change. Broadcast income per
Champions League match will be reduced this season to 25 percent
from 40 percent of the U.K. market pool because of the Red
Devils’ second-place finish in the Premier League last season
and Chelsea’s European Cup win.  The owners spent 3.1 million pounds, equivalent to the
income from hosting one match, on professional adviser fees
related to the float. It added 65 employees, boosting the total
to 735 as staff was added to sell sponsorship and to service
existing clients.  Before the tax credit the team had a little-changed loss of
6.1 million pounds for the first quarter. The team said the
credit is related to a corporate restructuring and that it has
at least 60 million pounds more of unrecognized tax credit
available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  