-- Antena 3 Sees Ad-Share Growth Amid Tough Conditions
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-11-15T09:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/antena-3-cfo-sees-advertising-share-growth-amid-tough-conditions.html
Antena 3 de Television SA ,  Spain ’s
second-biggest commercial television station, predicts its
advertising market share will grow next year even as companies
scale back ad spending, its chief financial officer said.  Antena 3 expects to end this year with more than 43 percent
of the Spanish TV advertising market, which may have a year-end
value of 1.85 billion euros ($2.4 billion), or about 20 percent
less than in 2011, Antonio Manso said in an interview yesterday
at a conference organized by Morgan Stanley. The ad market may
shrink 5 percent next year, he said.  “Market conditions are very tough but we are totally sure
that next year we’ll be closer to 44 percent than to 43
percent” in market share, Manso said. “Audience is going very
well in all our channels and it’s very stable.”  As Spanish businesses deal with the country’s worst
economic crisis in recent decades, commercial television
stations’ profits are tumbling. Antena 3 and  Mediaset Espana
Comunicacion SA (TL5)  led consolidation in the industry by merging
with channels La Sexta and Cuatro, respectively, in order to
gain market share and boost savings.  Antena 3 shares fell 0.7 percent to 3.02 euros at 10:34
a.m. in  Madrid , bringing the decline this year to 35 percent.  “Antena 3 is doing pretty well amid plummeting ad sales in
general, even better than Mediaset Espana, which is now catching
up,” Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based strategist at FGA/MG
Valores, said by phone. “Advertisers are now wondering how much
value TV ads really have, and Antena 3 is also doing a bit
better on that front.”  Antena 3 said last month its nine-month net income fell 91
percent to 4.6 million euros from 52 million euros a year
earlier as sales fell 12 percent to 494 million euros.  Mediaset Espana, Spain’s biggest commercial television
station, posted a 60 percent drop in nine-month net income and a
14 percent sales decline.  “We have cut prices much more than was reasonable,” Manso
said. “The market could fall more next year because of a drop
in volume as demand continues weak, but not in terms of
prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Barcelona at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  