-- Taqa Swings to Third-Quarter Loss on Production Costs
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-11-14T11:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/taqa-swings-to-third-quarter-loss-on-production-costs.html
Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA) , the
government-run utility known as Taqa, swung to a loss in the
third quarter as higher operating expenses and one-time costs
offset gains in revenue.  Taqa reported a  net loss  of 288 million dirhams ($78
million) after earning 537 million dirhams a year earlier, it
said in a  statement  today to the  Abu Dhabi  stock exchange. Sales
rose 43 percent to 8.83 billion dirhams, the company said. Lower
natural  gas prices  in North America limited revenue growth,
Chief Executive Officer Carl Sheldon said on a conference call.  Taqa, owned 75 percent by the Abu Dhabi  government , holds
stakes in businesses generating power or producing oil and gas
in the  Middle East , the North Sea,  India  and North America. It
borrowed in June to expand Morocco’s Jorf Lasfar power plant,
the largest coal-fired facility in the Middle East, and plans to
refinance debt due next year. The company is cutting planned
capital expenditure in  Canada  by 30 percent to about $500
million this year, Sheldon said.  “Our third-quarter results were dominated by one-time non-
cash items,” Chief Financial Officer Stephen Kersley said on
the conference call. They included a charge of 272 million
dirhams linked to U.K. tax changes and an impairment charge of
83 million dirhams related to investment in a U.S.
infrastructure fund, he said.  The shares declined as much as 1.5 percent, or 2 fils, to
1.29 dirhams, before closing at 1.31 dirhams in Abu Dhabi.  Construction Costs  Revenue gains at Jorf Lasfar were mostly offset by
construction costs for the addition of units there. Expenses
rose to 6.72 billion dirhams from 3.72 billion dirhams, eroding
profit, according to the company’s financial statements. The
start of the Shuweihat S2 power plant in Abu Dhabi contributed
to an 11 percent increase in operating costs from the same
period last year.  The company, based in Abu Dhabi, capital of the  United Arab
Emirates , is seeking $2 billion to refinance a revolving  credit
facility  maturing next year, it said in the statement. The
effort “is proceeding well with strong interest from a large
number of banks,” Taqa said.  Kersley said the loans will help Taqa maintain $4 billion
in available credit lines. The company will also sell bonds to
refinance debt maturing next year, he said, declining to comment
on when a sale would take place.  “We like to go out at a time that’s convenient for us, not
at the last minute,” Kersley said.  Taqa will evaluate opportunities in the Middle East and
Africa, Sheldon said, adding that the company is interested in
 Iraq , where it already operates in that country’s northern
Kurdish region. The company will continue to sell or close
money-losing assets, particularly in  North America , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  