-- Marlins Send Reyes, Buehrle, Buck to Toronto, Miami Herald Says
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-11-14T05:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/marlins-send-reyes-buehrle-buck-to-toronto-miami-herald-says.html
The  Miami Marlins  are sending Josh Johnson,  Mark Buehrle ,  Jose Reyes , John Buck and Emilio Bonifacio to the Toronto  Blue Jays  to reduce their Major League
Baseball payroll, the Miami Herald reported, citing a person
familiar with the trade who requested anonymity.  In return, the Marlins will receive shortstop Yunel Escobar
and infielder Adeiny Hechavarria, the Herald said.  The Marlins also will get pitchers Henderson Alvarez and
Justin Nicolino, and outfielder Jake Marisnick, as well as one
of three catchers: J.P. Arencibia, Bobby Wilson or Jeff Mathis,
the newspaper said, citing Fox Sports.  The trade favored the Blue Jays in the Las Vegas sports
books, according to R.J. Bell of Pregame.com. Toronto,
previously given a 100-1 chance of winning the 2013  World Series ,
had its odds improve to 15-1 after talk of the trade surfaced,
Bell said in an e-mail.  The Blue Jays have not reached the playoffs since winning
their second consecutive World Series in 1993. Toronto went 73-
89 this season and finished fourth in the American League East
for the fourth straight year.  The Marlins would reduce their payroll by $13.75 million
for right-handed pitcher Johnson, who was 8-14 last season, $96
million over five years for shortstop Reyes and $52 million over
three years for left-handed pitcher Buehrle, who was 13-13 last
season, the newspaper reported.  Free Agents  The Marlins signed free agents Reyes, Buehrle and Heath Bell before the 2012 season. They traded Bell to the  Arizona 
Diamondbacks last month.  Despite the infusion of high-priced players last year, the
Marlins finished the season 69-93 for last place in the five-
team  National League East , 29 games behind the Washington
Nationals.  The Marlins fired manager Ozzie Guillen on Oct. 23 after
their first season in a $515 million retractable-roof stadium.
Miami hired former catcher Mike Redmond Nov. 1 to succeed
Guillen. Redmond, 41, spent last season with the Blue Jays’
Class-A minor-league affiliate in Dunedin, Florida.  This would be the third time in recent years that the
Marlins have sold off high-priced players. Established as an
expansion team in 1993, the Marlins won World Series titles in
1997 and 2003, then gutted the payroll each time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  