-- Asian Stocks Rise, Led by Financial Firms
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-11-14T11:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/asian-stocks-little-changed-as-china-congress-closes.html
Asian  stocks  gained as a rebound in
financial shares tempered declines among industrial and raw-
material companies.  China ’s once-in-a-decade meeting to choose
new leaders draws to a close today.  Sharp Corp. (6753)  surged 7.2 percent as Kyodo News reported Intel
Corp. may invest as much as 40 billion yen ($500 million) in the
Japanese TV maker.  Iluka Resources Ltd. (ILU)  fell 6.4 percent in
Sydney after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised selling shares of
the world’s biggest zircon producer, citing lower mineral sands
prices.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  rose 3.2 percent in Hong
Kong as the Financial News reported the nation’s second-largest
lender by assets said it can keep non-performing loans under
control even as economic growth slows.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.1 percent to 120.09 as
of 8:14 p.m. in  Tokyo . The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland shares listed in Hong Kong halted a four-day 3.9
percent slide before the conclusion of China’s leadership
congress. Measures of volatility in  Japan  and Hong Kong fell.  “Confidence is crucial,” said  Jing Ulrich , Hong Kong-
based chairwoman of global markets at the China division of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. “The economy is beginning to stabilize.
Maybe in the coming few months we’ll see corporate earnings
recover. We are already seeing signs of recovery in things like
power generation, retail sales, industrial production and
surprisingly Chinese exports have performed better than
expected.”  Consumer Confidence  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  gained less than 0.1
percent, with volume 33 percent below the 30-day average. The
gauge fell on the previous seven trading days, its longest
streak of losses since April. The  Nikkei Volatility Index (VNKY) 
dropped 2.7 percent to the lowest since February 2011 as
investors bet on fewer price swings in equity prices. South
Korea’s Kospi added 0.2 percent.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  climbed 0.2 percent as a
survey showed  consumer confidence  surged to a 19-month high as
central bank interest-rate cuts boosted household optimism.
Iluka limited gains on the benchmark, falling 6.4 percent to
A$8.10.  China’s Vice President Xi Jinping and Vice Premier Li
Keqiang were re-appointed to the Communist Party’s central
committee today. Members of the Politburo Standing Committee,
the top decision-making body, will be named tomorrow in Beijing.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng added 1.2 percent and China’s
Shanghai Composite gained 0.4 percent. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index rose 1.7 percent. The HSI Volatility Index
lost 5 percent, the biggest drop since September.  Economic Rebound  “With China’s growth target within reach and the
employment situation acceptable, we do not expect fresh stimulus
after the leadership transition,” said Ding Shuang, senior
economist for China at Citigroup Inc. in Hong Kong, who
previously worked at the country’s central bank. “It’s most
likely that the economy will rebound in the first quarter and
first half of next year.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.5
percent today. The gauge dropped 0.4 percent yesterday as a
slump in financial and technology shares erased an earlier rally
led by Home Depot Inc.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  gained 10 percent through
yesterday from this year’s low on June 4 as central banks added
stimulus to spur economic growth and data showed a slowdown in
China may be ending. The measure traded at 13.3 times estimated
earnings yesterday, compared with 13.2 for the S&P 500, 12.1 for
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Today is the last day of trading before MSCI Inc. announces
its semi-annual rebalancing of indexes.  Sales Forecast  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST)  lost 0.9 percent to
S$3.16 after Southeast Asia’s biggest phone company cut its
full-year sales forecast on declining Australian revenue and
posted second-quarter earnings that missed analyst estimates.  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ) , a newspaper publisher that counts
billionaire  Gina Rinehart  as its biggest shareholder, rose 4
percent to 39.5 Australian cents in Sydney after selling its
U.S. rural media business to Penton Media for $79.9 million.  Shionogi & Co. (4507)  climbed 2.2 percent to 1,348 yen in Tokyo.
An experimental treatment for HIV developed by the Japanese
company in conjunction with GlaxoSmithKline Plc and Pfizer Inc.
reduced the virus in hard-to-treat patients in a late-stage
study, providing further support for a regulatory filing by the
end of this year.  Noble Group Ltd. slumped 7.3 percent to S$1.08 in Singapore
as Vice Chairman Emeritus Harindarpal Singh Banga sold a stake
worth about $200 million in Asia’s biggest publicly listed
commodity trader by revenue.  Banks accounted for the  largest gains  among 10 industry
groups on the Asian benchmark. China Construction Bank gained
3.2 percent to HK$5.84. National Australia Bank advanced 0.6
percent to A$23.24, recouping some of the last five days of
declines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  