-- Australian Stocks Drop on U.S. Budget Concern, Israel
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-11-14T23:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/australian-stocks-drop-on-u-s-budget-concern-israel.html
Australian shares fell and Japanese
stock futures were little changed amid concern about the impact
of the U.S. budget debate on economic growth and as conflict in
Israel spurred an advance in crude oil prices.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company,
dropped 1.5 percent in Sydney.  American Depositary Receipts  of
Sony Corp., the Japanese electronics maker reeling from four
consecutive annual losses, slumped 9.4 percent after saying it
plans to raise 150 billion yen ($1.9 billion) from convertible
bonds. ADRs of  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  lost 4.3 percent as the Japanese
TV maker plans to cut 8,000 jobs in the second half of this
fiscal year amid falling demand and a rising yen.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.8 percent and New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index retreated 0.3 percent. Futures on Japan’s
Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring next month closed at 8,675 in
Chicago yesterday, up from 8,670 in Osaka,  Japan . They were bid
in the pre-market at 8,690 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time.  “Political uncertainty seems likely to remain a persistent
and potentially critical factor for investors,” said  Gerard Minack , Sydney-based global strategist at Morgan Stanley.
“Investors hate uncertainty. Trading ahead of any fiscal cliff
will remain challenging.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.1
percent today. The S&P 500 lost 1.4 percent yesterday and the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  slid to the lowest level since
June. Investors’ attention remained fixated on Washington, where
lawmakers need to reach a budget agreement in order to avoid a
so-called “fiscal cliff” of $607 billion in automatic tax
increases and spending cuts next year for the world’s largest
economy.  Clear Message  President  Barack Obama  told reporters yesterday that voters
sent a “very clear message” at the Nov. 6 election that they
want both parties to stop bickering and take the necessary
action to cut the budget deficit. He warned that Republican
“stubbornness” could trigger the fiscal cliff and push the
nation into a recession.  The president’s remarks spurred concern that lawmakers were
not making progress in reaching an agreement to avert the fiscal
cliff. Obama will sit down with Democratic and Republican
congressional leaders Nov. 16 for an opening round of
negotiations.  A number of Federal Reserve officials said the U.S. central
bank may need to expand its monthly purchases of bonds next year
after the expiration of Operation Twist, according to minutes of
their last meeting.  Gaza Strip  “A number of participants indicated that additional asset
purchases would likely be appropriate next year after the
conclusion of the maturity-extension program,” according to the
record of the Federal Open Market Committee’s Oct. 23-24
gathering released yesterday in Washington.  Oil halted a two-day slump as Egypt recalled its ambassador
to Israel and Ahmed al-Jabari, a leader of Hamas’ militant wing,
and another Palestinian man were killed by Israel jets in the
 Gaza Strip .  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index gained 9.9 percent through
yesterday from this year’s low on June 4 as central banks added
stimulus to spur economic growth and data showed a slowdown in
China may be ending. The measure traded at 13.2 times estimated
earnings yesterday, compared with 13 for the S&P 500 and 12 for
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. fell 1.2 percent to 89.63 in New York
yesterday, the lowest close since Sept. 11. China’s Politburo
Standing Committee, the supreme decision-making body in China
that will be announced today, is forecast to include Vice
President  Xi Jinping  and Vice Premier  Li Keqiang .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  