-- Australia Wages Rise Less Than Forecast as Retail Pay Gains Slow
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-11-14T00:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/australia-wages-rise-less-than-forecast-as-retail-pay-gains-slow.html
Australian  wages  rose at a weaker
pace than economists  estimated  in the third quarter, restrained
by weaker demand in retail and tourism industries.  The wage price index, which measures hourly pay rates
excluding bonuses, advanced 0.7 percent from the previous three
months, when it rose 1 percent, the statistics bureau said today
in Sydney. That compares with the median forecast for a 0.8
percent gain in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 20 economists.  The central bank cut  interest rates  by 1.5 percentage
points from November last year to October to 3.25 percent to
help cushion the economy from Europe’s crisis and a slowdown in
 China . It kept the benchmark unchanged this month in response to
signs the global economy is stabilizing and  core inflation  is
accelerating.  “We expect the continued fade in labor demand over the
last six to nine months to have started weighing on wage
growth,”  Stephen Walters , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s chief
economist in Australia who predicted a 0.7 percent rise, said in
a research report before the release.  The  wage price index  advanced 3.7 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, today’s report showed. Economists
forecast a 3.8 percent gain from a year earlier.  Hourly rates of pay at retailers increased 2.3 percent from
a year earlier, and accommodation and food services wages and
information media and telecommunications pay both rose 2.9
percent -- the three weakest gainers among the 18 industries
surveyed by the statistics bureau. Wholesale trade jumped 5.3
percent and mining wages advanced 5.2 percent, the two biggest
increases, the report showed.  China Demand  “Business surveys and liaison suggest that private sector
wage growth may have softened a little over more recent
months,” the  Reserve Bank  of Australia said in its quarterly
policy statement released last week.  Australia’s economy is being driven by China, the nation’s
biggest trading partner, which is buying up  iron ore , coal and
natural gas as millions of people in the world’s most populous
nation move to urban centers. That has helped spur the nation’s
currency above parity with the  U.S. dollar  and hurt industries
outside of resources.  Traders are pricing in a 65 percent chance the central bank
will lower borrowing costs by a quarter-percentage point to 3
percent at its meeting next month, swaps data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The local dollar traded at $1.0447 at 11:41 a.m.
in Sydney.  Australia’s unemployment rate rose to a 2 1/2-year high of
5.4 percent in September and held at that level in October. The
economy added full-time jobs for a fourth straight month, the
longest streak of gains since 2010, advancing by 18,700 in
October, employment data released last week showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  