-- Automakers Boost Investing on Vehicle Factories in Mexico
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e ,   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-11-14T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/automakers-boost-investing-on-vehicle-factories-in-mexico.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s plan to source
cars from  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) ’s Mexican plant starting in 2015
highlights global automakers’ growing reliance on the Latin
American nation for quality production as well as lower costs.  Mexico’s vehicle output is on pace to reach a record 2.86
million units in 2012, according to researcher LMC Automotive.
More is on the way, as  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  is building its first
large Mexico assembly plant,  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  adds a third
factory, Ford Motor Co. produces midsize sedans and  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s Audi opens the country’s first luxury vehicle plant in
2016.  “Across a range of industries, every single company in
America that I’ve talked to will tell you that either their best
plant or one of their top plants is in Mexico,” said  Jeff Liker , an engineering professor at the University of  Michigan .
“They can build quality and they can deliver on time.”  From Japanese carmakers seeking relief from the strong yen
to German and U.S. rivals eager to expand exports to the rest of
Latin America, Mexico is evolving from its traditional role as a
source of low-cost labor. Automakers are focusing investment
within about 300 miles (483 kilometers) of Mexico City to take
advantage of the nation’s newfound reputation for quality.  Mexico’s trade agreements covering 44 countries also make
it an attractive export platform to ship cars to South America,
Asia and  Africa  as well as the U.S. and  Canada .  Free Trade  “ Mexico  has more free trade agreements than the U.S.,”
said Sean McAlinden, a labor economist with the Center for
Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Michigan. “They have a free
trade agreement with the EU that saves them a 10 percent tariff
that’s applied to U.S.-built vehicles. If you’re going to build
a world car like Q5 or an Infiniti, Mexico is where you’re going
to do it.”  Central Mexico “will definitely be the hottest growth area
with respect to North American vehicle production this decade,”
Michael Robinet, managing director of consultant IHS Automotive,
said in a telephone interview from Northville, Michigan. “The
shift to Mexico is not only trying to feed the U.S. and Canadian
markets, it’s more of a global production play.”  Automakers have announced $7.8 billion in Mexican
investments in the past 24 months, McAlinden said.  Mazda agreed to build a Toyota-branded subcompact car based
on the Mazda2 hatchback at a $500 million plant the Hiroshima,
Japan-based company is building in the central state of
Guanajuato. The factory will supply Toyota with 50,000 units of
the vehicle annually when production begins in mid-2015.  ‘Highest Quality’  “As with all other regions where we have manufacturing
operations, we’re confident this new vehicle produced in Mexico
will be of the highest quality,” said Steve Curtis, a spokesman
for Toyota’s North American unit.  Ford (F) , seeking to win midsize sedan sales in the U.S. from
Toyota’s Camry, this year began building a revamped Fusion sedan
in Hermosillo, Mexico. The company has said it will also produce
the car with looks evocative of an Aston Martin in Flat Rock,
Michigan, next year. Ford in March said it planned $1.3 billion
in upgrades for Hermosillo.  Toyota has operated a small Tacoma pickup factory near
Tijuana, Mexico, that’s far from the center of the nation’s
automotive supplier base.  Along with supplying vehicles for the U.S. and Mexican
markets, the plant also helps the Toyota City, Japan-based
company comply with a national rule requiring major automakers
to have at least 50,000 units of local production capacity or
face import tariffs.  ‘Just Catch-Up’  Toyota’s manufacturing agreement with Mazda “is just
catch-up,” said Liker, who also teaches efficient manufacturing
techniques to companies. “They have too little capacity in
Mexico, compared with many other competitors,” he said by phone
last week from Mexico City.  Toyota “tends to take a very long-term view when it makes
a decision like this, so I would expect this plant to eventually
become a joint-venture between the two,” Liker said.  Honda has a small factory in El Salto, Mexico, that
assembles CR-V compact SUVs for sale in the U.S. and Mexico to
comply with the country’s trade rules. While that facility can
produce only about 60,000 vehicles annually, the $800 million
plant Tokyo-based Honda is building in Celaya is to have
capacity to produce 200,000 Fit small cars annually.  Yen Impact  The yen’s persistent strength relative to the dollar has
forced  Japan ’s automakers to shift more production outside of
their home market to maintain competitive pricing in the U.S.,
where Toyota and Honda generate most of their profits.  The Japanese currency traded at 79.50 yen to the dollar on
Nov. 12, up 3.7 percent from two years earlier and a 27 percent
jump from 109.41 yen in 2007.  Toyota has a history of manufacturing tie-ups in North
America. The company previously operated a joint-venture factory
in  California  for 25 years with the former General Motors Corp.
that ended with the U.S. company’s 2009 bankruptcy.  Since 2007,  Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270) ’s Subaru plant in
Lafayette,  Indiana , has built Camry sedans for Toyota under
contract. Toyota has since increased its equity stake in Fuji
Heavy to about  16.5 percent .  While Toyota and Mazda haven’t built vehicles together in
the past, the two carmakers have had a technology-sharing
agreement on hybrid-electric systems, said Jeremy Barnes, a
spokesman for Mazda’s North American unit in  Irvine , California.  Past Pattern  While the two Japanese automakers share no equity ties,
Toyota may take a position in Mazda, said Liker, who specializes
in research about the largest Asian automaker.  “I wouldn’t be surprised,” he said. “I don’t know that
that’s a plan. That certainly has been the pattern in the
past.”  Ford formerly held a controlling interest in Mazda. The
Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker began selling its Mazda stake
in 2008 and now holds about  2.1 percent  of Mazda shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Mexico’s automobile plants have competitive labor
costs and quality levels that are “equal to and in some cases
greater than” those of U.S. plants, automakers can incur other
costs that cancel out the benefits, said Ron Harbour, a
manufacturing analyst and partner at New York-based consulting
company Oliver Wyman.  Shipping, Violence  One source of added cost comes from shipping cars to
international markets. Another is drug-related violence, which,
according to the Mexican newspaper Milenio, has claimed 57,449
lives since President Felipe Calderon took office in December
2006.  “You can wash away a good chunk of that labor savings with
the logistics cost, particularly today when fuel costs have gone
up, the cost of containers, the cost of security,” Harbour said
in a telephone interview from  Detroit .  “You now have to protect the trucks and trains, which can
be looted,” he said. “There’s all kind of costs that come in
addition to the labor savings.”  Violence in central Mexico is lower than in much of
northern Mexico. Honda and Mazda both chose the central state of
Guanajuato for their plants. Audi chose the state of Puebla,
southeast of Mexico City, to assemble its Q5 sport-utility
vehicle for the global market. Parent company Volkswagen has
produced cars in Mexico since 1967.  New Wave  Bolstered by the new wave of investment, Mexico’s light-
vehicle production probably will rise 34 percent to 3.83 million
by 2017, according to LMC. The researcher’s 2.86 million vehicle
estimate for this year would make Mexico the world’s eighth-
largest auto producer.  “We could easily outpace the numbers we have by 2017 with
another new plant or two announced, if that were to be the
case,” said Jeff Schuster, an analyst at LMC. “In the past,
you saw the Detroit brands moving in there and putting up
additional facilities. Now it’s the South Koreans, the Japanese
and the Europeans all looking to expand in Mexico.”  While domestic sales in Mexico remain lower than the 2006
peak, auto exports rose 12 percent to a record 1.98 million
units in the first 10 months of the year, the Mexican Automobile
Industry Association said Nov. 7.  The U.S. accounted for 63 percent of shipments, followed by
the rest of Latin America, at 16 percent, and  Europe  taking 9
percent of Mexican-built autos. Vehicle exports to Africa more
than quadrupled to 26,608 while shipments to Asia rose 83
percent to 38,194.  Busy Port  Veracruz, Mexico, was the busiest vehicle port in North
America last year, handling 753,685 units for such companies as
Ford, Nissan and Volkswagen, according to Finished Vehicle
Logistics, a London-based publication specializing in automotive
distribution. About 588,000 of the vehicles were exports.  More automakers, including Seoul-based  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) 
and Munich-based Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, may locate plants
in Mexico, Schuster said.  Hyundai doesn’t have current plans for a Mexican vehicle-
assembly factory, said Chris Hosford, a spokesman for the
company’s U.S. unit in Costa Mesa, California.  BMW hasn’t announced plans for building vehicles in Mexico
while analyzing potential production sites globally, said
Elizabeth Solis, a spokeswoman in Mexico City. The company said
last month it will invest 200 million euros ($254 million) in a
factory in  Brazil  to open in 2014.  “Very recently, there’s been a combination of updating
facilities and bringing in new ones to modernize the
manufacturing,” Schuster said. “Additional global training has
brought the workforce in line from a quality standpoint and a
process standpoint. And then obviously because of the cost
benefits, now we’re seeing a big push into Mexico once again,
from really all directions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  