-- Tax Reform Won’t Save the World
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-11-14T23:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/tax-reform-won-t-save-the-world.html
Washington loves its panaceas. A few
years ago, it was Army General David Petraeus who could fix any
problem -- up to and perhaps including the presidency. Then it
was the Simpson-Bowles commission, or maybe the congressional
supercommittee on  deficit reduction . Today’s cure-all?  Tax
reform .  Tax reform “will result in the additional revenue the
president seeks,” said House Speaker  John Boehner  in his post-
election news conference. “It will support economic growth,
which means more revenue is generated for the Treasury. And it
will improve the efficiency of the system, which means
additional revenue as well.” He went on to quote former Treasury
Secretary George P. Shultz, who said the 1986 tax reform was
“the unsung hero of the very good economic times we had for a
long time.”  That’s the Washington consensus on tax reform: It slices,
it dices, it cleans up after itself. But that’s not the economic
profession’s consensus.  In 1997,  Alan Auerbach  and  Joel Slemrod  conducted an
exhaustive survey of studies conducted after the 1986 tax
reform. The results were mostly disappointing. The strongest
effect they found was in “the timing of economic transactions” -
- for instance, the rush to take  capital gains  before a new,
higher rate kicked in. After that, it was “financial and
accounting responses,” such as the effort to transform corporate
income into individual income in order to, again, avoid higher
taxes. All this is good news for tax lawyers, but what about
moving the growth needle?  “At the bottom of the hierarchy is the response of real
activities chosen by individuals or firms.” On this, the authors
concluded, the evidence is “mixed.” Oh.  Economic Consensus  Over the past week, I’ve asked a dozen economists whether
tax reform is likely to supercharge -- or even kind of charge --
growth. The consensus is summed up well by former White House
economic adviser  Lawrence Summers : “Given there’s a need to
raise revenue, doing it by closing loopholes is probably a
better way to do it than doing it by raising rates,” Summers
said. “It can promote fairness, simplicity and resistance to
special interests. But the idea that this is some important
offensive growth strategy is implausible.”  Bruce Bartlett, who helped write President  Ronald Reagan ’s
1981 tax plan, is even more emphatic. “I am not familiar with
any tax reform that raised growth, here or anywhere else,” he
said.  Some kinds of tax reform could raise growth, at least in
theory. Additional research by Auerbach, for instance, suggests
that a sharply regressive  consumption tax  could add as much as
4.5 percent to gross domestic product over 15 years, in part
because of the labor market effects of cutting taxes
significantly on the rich and raising them on the poor. But no
one is advocating that.  Instead, Washington policy makers are debating an approach
-- broadening the tax base through closing tax expenditures,
credits and deductions -- that isn’t likely to do much at all.  Tax economists Alex Brill and Alan Viard put the problem
clearly in a brief for the  American Enterprise Institute : “One
of the major arguments some supporters of base broadening make -
- that such reforms reduce work disincentives -- is generally
mistaken. Work incentives depend on effective marginal tax rates
rather than statutory tax rates, and revenue-neutral base
broadening leaves the former roughly unchanged.”  Reform’s Effect  Translated from tax policy-ese, the basic point is that if
you’re not cutting total taxes -- the “effective marginal  tax
rate ” -- you’re not going to drastically alter the incentives
people have to work. As a result, you’re not going to see much
added growth from tax reform, especially if the  revenue 
contributed by various groups remains largely unchanged.
All that should be pretty intuitive; if you’re not changing who
pays taxes or how much they pay, you’re not changing all that
much. Simplifying the  tax code  only gets you so far.  However, if Republicans and Democrats can agree on tax
reform, it almost certainly will do more than simplify the code.
It will increase taxes on the rich. And though there’s no reason
to expect that will harm the economy in a major way, it will
probably create a slight drag on growth. “I think of tax reform
more as a way of limiting the losses the tax increases bring,”
Auerbach says.  Another argument in favor of tax reform is that it will
improve economic efficiency by letting the market, rather than
the tax code, direct the flow of resources. Eliminate the
exclusion for employer-provided health insurance and less money
will flow to health care. Cap the mortgage-interest deduction
and housing won’t be such an attractive investment.  “In their hearts, almost all economists believe that
getting rid of tax expenditures will be good for growth because
decisions will not be distorted by differences in taxes,” said
 Michael Greenstone , an economist at the  Massachusetts Institute
of Technology  who also directs the Hamilton Project at the
Brookings Institute. “Unfortunately, I don’t think there is much
empirical evidence on this question either way.”  Which isn’t to say that tax reform isn’t worth the effort.
Everyone agrees that it can help a bit, and most everyone agrees
that raising taxes by reforming the code is probably better for
the economy than raising taxes by increasing marginal rates
(though many caution that, given our fiscal problems, generating
revenue is the most important goal and promises of higher
revenue through tax reform often don’t pan out). Tax reform
doesn’t slice, dice or cut through cans. If it’s a “game
changer,” it is only in the sense that it gives Republicans a
face-saving way to do what needs to be done: raise taxes.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on a  tax compromise both parties
can live with  and on  how to fund oversight of nonprofit groups ;
 Caroline Baum  on the  CEO group that wants to fix the debt ;
 Michael Kinsley  on why TV insists on  Election Night suspense ;
Jonathan Mahler in defense of  John Calipari and the one-season
collegiate basketball career ; Tim Weiner on echoes  of dark FBI
history in the David Petraeus scandal .  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 