-- Bank of America Sued Over $261 Million in Mortgage Bonds
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-11-14T23:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/bank-of-america-sued-over-261-million-in-mortgage-bonds.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
biggest U.S. lender by assets, was sued by investors over $261.2
million worth of residential mortgage-backed securities.  The case was filed yesterday in  New York  state  Supreme
Court  in  Manhattan  by investors including Phoenix Light SF Ltd.
They asked for damages of more than $122.2 million from
defendants including the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender
and its Countrywide unit.  The investors said they relied on offering materials that
misrepresented and omitted statistical characteristics of the
loans underlying the securities, including the percentage of
properties that were occupied by owners.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the lawsuit.  In September, investors including Phoenix Light sued Bank
of America in the same court over losses of more than $36.6
million on mortgage-backed securities worth about $69.8 million.
They also sued lenders including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  for $1.8 billion in May, and Deutsche
Bank AG’s Ace Securities for about $300 million in February.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  ‘Rescue Financing’  Phoenix is a limited liability company based in Dublin that
inherited legal claims from “entities that collapsed or nearly
collapsed” in exchange for “rescue financing” and “other
good and valuable consideration,” according to the complaint
against Deutsche Bank filed in February.  The entities include Dusseldorf, Germany-based WestLB, the
180-year-old German state-owned lender that ceased operations on
June 29 as part of European Union conditions tied to a 17
billion-euro bailout following the 2008 financial crisis,
according to the complaint.  The other entities include George Town, Cayman Islands-
based Harrier Finance Ltd., Dublin-based Kestrel Funding Plc and
Delaware-based Grayhawk Funding LLC, all of whom hired WestLB’s
New York-based Brightwater Capital Management unit to manage
investments in mortgage-backed securities, according to the
complaint.  The other plaintiffs in the suits are mortgage-backed
securities investors based in Ireland or the  Cayman Islands ,
according to court filings.  The case is Phoenix Light SF Ltd. v.  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , 653916/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York
County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  