-- Barclays Raises $3 Billion With 10-Year Contingent Capital Notes
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-11-14T20:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/barclays-to-raise-3-billion-from-contingent-capital-notes-3-.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  raised $3 billion from
a sale of dollar-denominated bonds that can be written off in a
crisis as the U.K.’s second-largest lender seeks to meet
regulators’ demands to bolster capital.  Investors in the 10-year contingent capital notes will lose
all their money if Barclays incurs losses that reduce its so-
called  core Tier 1 equity  to 7 percent or lower, according to
two people with knowledge of the sale who asked not to be
identified because they’re not authorized to speak about the
deal. The 7.625 percent bonds yield 603.7 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “There’s huge demand for yield from Asian retail,” said
Steve Hussey, a credit analyst at AllianceBernstein Ltd. in
London. “Barclays is using that as an insurance policy to get
this done.”  Bonds designed to absorb losses before a lender collapses
are a product of the 2008 financial-sector crisis, when debt
investors were made good while banks had to be propped up by
governments to prevent contagion to the wider economy.  Standard
& Poor’s  said the Barclays notes raised “going-concern”
capital for the bank, designed to keep the lender in business as
it seeks money to recover.  Asian Investors  Asian investors accounted for about half of the order book
as the U.S. opened, said the people with knowledge of the deal.  The British lender managed the transaction itself, along
with Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG
and Morgan Stanley.  Until the write-off is triggered, the subordinated bonds
are so-called lower Tier 2 capital on which interest can’t be
deferred or skipped. Barclays can repay the bonds if regulators
deem the securities can’t be treated as capital or if the tax
treatment changes.  John McGuinness, a spokesman for Barclays in  London ,
declined to comment.  The cost of insuring Barclays’s senior debt has risen for
the past six days in anticipation of the contingent note sale.
Credit-default swaps protecting the bank’s securities for five
years cost 179 basis points, up from 157 on Nov. 5, the day news
of the financing emerged, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  Credit-default swaps on Barclays were the most traded
contracts tied to companies included in European derivatives
indexes in the week through Nov. 9, up from 28th place the week
before, according to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to $1,000 a year.  S&P said Nov. 9 it expects to rate the Barclays contingent
notes BBB-, the lowest investment-grade level and four steps
below the A rating of the U.K. lender’s holding company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  