-- Barclays Must Disclose Libor Traders, Submitters: Judge
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-11-14T17:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/barclays-must-disclose-libor-traders-submitters-judge.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  must disclose the
identities of Libor traders and employees who made submissions
to set  interest rates , after a ruling in the first U.K. lawsuit
related to manipulation of the  London  interbank offered rate.  Judge Julian Flaux in London said the bank must give the
information on the workers to affiliates of Guardian Care Homes
Ltd., which sued the bank over a loss-making interest-rate swap
tied to Libor. London-based Barclays must also provide Guardian
the e-mail communications of 42 employees, transcripts of phone
conversations that refer to Libor, board minutes and documents
from its treasury committee, Flaux ruled today.  Guardian sued over a swap that cost it about 12 million
pounds ($19 million), saying Libor -- the baseline for about
$300 trillion of contracts worldwide -- can’t be trusted. In
June, Barclays was fined a record 290 million pounds after
regulators found its investment bankers tried to manipulate the
interest rate.  Barclays “spent 100 million pounds making sure no stone
was left unturned” in what it disclosed to regulators about
Libor, Tim Lord, Guardian’s lawyer, said at a hearing yesterday.
Guardian wants access to the same information, he said. Barclays
mentioned about 200 employees in its disclosure to regulators,
the judge has said.  14 Days  Flaux said he would keep the names from the public for 14
days to give individuals a chance to apply to the court for
confidentiality. He will rule on any requests at an additional
hearing.  “The directions given today are consistent with Barclays’
proposal to the court to manage disclosure in these proceedings
in an effective and proportionate manner,” Barclays spokesman
Jon Laycock said in an e-mail.  Barclays failed to have the Libor-fixing part of the suit
thrown out on Oct. 29 when Flaux ruled it would have to answer
accusations it profited from rigging Libor submissions.  Guardian, based in Wolverhampton,  England , claims the
Libor-based interest-rate swap it bought from Barclays isn’t
valid because the bank knew, or should have known, the rate
wasn’t accurate.  Barclays was previously denied permission to have the swap
claim decided by British financial regulators instead of a
judge.  Regulators worldwide are investigating allegations banks
altered submissions used to set Libor in an effort to benefit
traders, or to appear financially healthier than they were.  Daily Poll  Libor is calculated by a poll carried out daily on behalf
of the British Bankers’ Association that asks firms to estimate
how much it would cost to borrow from each other for different
periods and in different currencies. The BBA signaled in
September it will give up oversight of the rate.  The disclosure of employee e-mails will strengthen other
claims against Barclays brought by companies “that were mis-
sold swaps and whose swaps payments were artificially increased
by the downward manipulation of Libor,” said Carmen Leon, an
attorney at Bracewell Law who isn’t involved in the Guardian
case.  Dan Doctoroff , President and Chief Executive Officer of
Bloomberg LP, has offered a measure dubbed the Bloomberg
Interbank Offered Rate, or Blibor. It would use data from a
variety of financial transactions in an effort to better reflect
participating banks’ real cost of credit. Bloomberg LP is the
parent of  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  