-- Bekaert Slumps on Additional Sawing-Wire Hit: Brussels Mover
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-11-14T11:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/bekaert-slumps-on-additional-sawing-wire-hit-brussels-mover.html
Bekaert NV (BEKB) , the world’s largest
maker of steel cord for tires, fell the most in nine months in
Brussels after saying the collapse of its sawing-wire business
will prompt an additional writedown of the equipment.  Bekaert declined as much as 9.7 percent on Euronext
Brussels, the biggest  intraday  slump since Feb. 2, and traded
1.93 euros lower at 19.03 euros by 12:02 p.m. local time. Almost
270,000 shares changed hands so far, more than  2.5 times  the
three-month average volume.  “The decision to impair the remaining sawing-wire machines
is an indication that Bekaert does not see the possibility to
transfer these machines toward the tire activity, given the
likely trend of tire cord demand,”  Bernard Hanssens , an analyst
at Bank Degroof in Brussels, wrote in a note to investors.
“Bekaert is still facing solid headwind.”  The collapse of demand for sawing wire, which is used to
slice silicon ingots into wafers for solar cells, and provisions
for overdue payments from  clients  in that industry, will cut
earnings by an additional 100 million euros ($127 million) in
the second half, Bekaert said today in a statement. The company
said price cuts needed to fend off competition in Asia, a
temporary plant shutdown in  Venezuela  due to wire-rod shortages
and a wider share of low-margin products in European sales will
also affect profitability.  Third-quarter sales of 864 million euros, a 2.7 percent
decline from the preceding quarter, missed the 871 million-euro
median estimate of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Sales in  Europe , the Middle East and Africa tumbled 14 percent
from the same period a year earlier despite stable volumes and
declined 8 percent in the Asia Pacific region.  “With the exception of Latin America, sales in all regions
came in below expectations,” said Wouter Vanderhaeghen, an
analyst at KBC Securities, as he cut his recommendation for the
stock to hold and reduced his price estimate by 12 percent to 22
euros. “As 2H12 and 2013 will prove extremely challenging,
investors need to take a view on at least 2014.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  