-- Benedictine Nuns Ask Citigroup Board to Explore Break-Up
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-11-14T17:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/benedictine-nuns-ask-citigroup-board-to-explore-break-up.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
 U.S. bank , should break up some of its businesses to increase
 shareholder value , a group of Benedictine nuns said.  The board should appoint independent directors to explore
the idea, according to a statement today from Trillium Asset
Management LLC, which manages investments for the Benedictine
Sisters of Mount St. Scholastica. Trillium and the AFSCME
Employees Pension Plan filed a proposal calling for a
shareholder vote on the matter, according to the statement.  The nuns join regulators, investors, former bankers and
lawmakers who have called for the break-up of too-big-to-fail
banks to unlock shareholder value and prevent another financial
crisis. New York-based Citigroup, which ousted Vikram Pandit as
chief executive officer last month, faces risk-management
breakdowns, litigation expenses and greater  capital
requirements , which could damage shareholder returns, according
to the statement.  “We believe Citigroup’s progress toward simplifying and
de-risking its business has been slow and incomplete,” Matthew Patsky, CEO of Boston-based Trillium, said in the statement.
“Citigroup boasts many attractive attributes, but remains
burdened by excessive complexity, as well as the stigma and
risks associated with being named a ’too big to fail’
institution.”  The proposal doesn’t offer specific recommendations on
which businesses should be eliminated.  ‘Responsible Investing’  Trillium manages about 182,000 shares in Citigroup,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The firm is the oldest
 investment adviser  devoted exclusively to “sustainable and
responsible investing,” according to the statement. The AFSCME
Employees Pension Plan is tied to the American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees, a union with about 1.6
million members.  Citigroup, which slashed its dividend during the financial
crisis, has been prevented from returning significant capital to
shareholders because regulators are concerned about its
stability, according to the statement. The bank failed part of
the  Federal Reserve ’s stress tests in March.  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for Citigroup, declined to
comment on the shareholder proposal. She said the bank has
reduced unwanted assets by more than $600 billion since the
financial crisis began while the lender’s capital buffers are
among the highest in the industry.  The nuns have been based in Atchison,  Kansas , since 1863,
when they opened a school for girls in the town, according to
their  website .  Charity Work  “We are a community of 144 women called by our monastic
profession to a balanced life of community, prayer, and
ministry,” according to the website. “Our hunger and thirst
for justice and peace focuses on works of charity as we respond
to the root causes of injustice.”  Citigroup had $1.93 trillion in  assets  at the end of
September, compared with $1.94 trillion a year earlier. The
bank’s businesses include  consumer banking , trading, investment
banking and treasury management and more than half of its profit
comes from  emerging markets .  The company has been eliminating unwanted assets from the
Citi Holdings division since Pandit created it in 2009 after the
bank’s near-collapse during the financial crisis. Assets in the
unit fell 31 percent to $171 billion at the end of September
from a year earlier.  Citigroup’s shares have  traded  below their book value since
2008, the firms said. The bank’s price-to-book value, a measure
of share price relative to net assets, has tumbled to 0.56 from
about 2.5 10 years ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is a gap of almost $50 billion between what Citi
says its assets are worth and what the market is saying,” Lee Saunders, chairman of the AFSCME fund’s board of trustees, said
in the statement. “It is high time that the board gave
shareholders a plan for recovering this value.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  