-- Berenbaum Says Qualcomm His ‘Single Best Buy’: Tom Keene
-- B y   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-11-14T21:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/berenbaum-says-qualcomm-his-single-best-buy-tom-keene.html
Daniel Berenbaum , an analyst at MKM
Partners LLC, said  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  is his “single best buy” as
the largest seller of mobile-phone semiconductors benefits from
price increases and surging demand for Web-enabled handsets.  “Qualcomm basically rings the cash register anytime
anybody buys an advanced smartphone,” said Berenbaum in a radio
interview with Tom Keene and Joe Brusuelas on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” in New York today.  Qualcomm, based in San Diego, gained a bigger market value
than  Intel Corp. (INTC)  for the first time last week after it forecast
results that topped analysts’ estimates, adding to evidence that
smartphones are gaining ground at the expense of computers.
Under Chief Executive Officer Paul Jacobs, Qualcomm is gaining
as consumers in developed nations snap up pricey new phones
while those in  emerging markets  upgrade to devices that provide
Web access. Intel, a laggard in the market for mobile-phone
chips, is being hurt by slack personal-computer sales.  Qualcomm’s current market capitalization of $105.2 billion
tops Intel’s $99.3 billion. Qualcomm makes most of its revenue
from baseband chips that connect phones to cellular networks.  Even as Apple Inc., one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers,
enters a bear market, the chipmaker can gain from growth
prospects of other clients, including smartphone makers HTC
Corp. and Samsung Electronics Co., Berenbaum said.  “Qualcomm can continue to benefit even if Apple is
perceived not to,” Berenbaum said. “We’re going to these
advanced networks. Qualcomm is able to extract a higher price,
not just for its chips, but it’s seeing a better mix outside of
Apple.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  