-- Berkshire Cuts 105 Jobs, Shuts Paper Bought by Buffett
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-11-14T19:51:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/berkshire-cuts-105-jobs-shuts-paper-bought-by-buffett.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , buyer of more than 60 newspapers in the past year, will
close the Manassas News & Messenger in Virginia amid a review of
operations acquired from  Media General Inc. (MEG)   Job cuts include 33 employees of the News & Messenger,
which is published five days a week and has a circulation of
10,000, according to a  letter  posted today on the Web. Another
72 positions will be eliminated, mostly corporate staff added as
part of the Media General deal.  “We looked at a bunch of different scenarios and I sent
multiple teams up there,” Doug Hiemstra, chief executive
officer of the World Media Enterprises unit, said in a phone
interview. “We just could not get to a sustainable profitable
operation for a daily newspaper there.”  Buffett, 82, has said that newspapers with local
readerships could withstand an advertising slump. The News &
Messenger, which traces its history to 1869, serves a northern
Virginia suburb and faces competition from papers including the
Washington Post.  “It’s a suburban newspaper to a metro area and we don’t
really have that at our other operations,” Hiemstra said. “It
makes it more difficult for the community to be engaged.”  World Media is still “bullish” on the prospects for
community newspapers, Hiemstra said in the letter.  Berkshire agreed in May to pay $142 million for 63
newspapers from Media General. The deal also included a $400
million loan to the media company at 10.5 percent interest.  Berkshire plans to sell the News & Messenger building,
surrounding downtown Manassas property and a nearby parking lot,
he said. The final edition will be Dec. 30, according to the
letter. No other job cuts are planned.  The job cuts were previously reported by the Omaha World-
Herald, which is also owned by Berkshire. Buffett’s Omaha,
Nebraska-based firm is the  largest shareholder  in  Washington
Post Co. (WPO)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  