-- Best Metals Forecaster Smirk Sees China Recovering: Commodities
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-11-15T13:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/best-metals-forecaster-smirk-sees-china-recovering-commodities.html
Industrial metals will rally through
the middle of next year as the economy strengthens in China, the
biggest user of everything from aluminum to zinc, according to
the most accurate price forecaster tracked by Bloomberg.  Justin Smirk of  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney beat as
many as 25 others in predicting metals for two consecutive
quarters on a rolling two-year basis, data compiled by Bloomberg
Rankings show. He expects copper, nickel and zinc to gain
through June and forecasts a 22 percent rise in aluminum.  China will accelerate through the end of September after
slowing for seven consecutive quarters, the median of
economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s
boosting prospects for demand as policy makers from  Europe  to
the U.S. to  Japan  pledge more action to bolster growth. Smirk,
47, says he focuses primarily on economic cycles, central banks
and financial markets to make his commodity predictions.  “We do see this point in time as perhaps the worst for the
growth cycle,” said Smirk, who has worked at  Australia ’s
second-largest lender by assets since 1999. “Commodity prices
should be moving stronger through this year and into next.”  Smirk’s average margin of error in the most recent rolling
eight-quarter period was 7.4 percent, Bloomberg Rankings data
show. That compares with 11.7 percent for his nearest rival,
 Bart Melek  of TD Securities Inc. in Toronto. Prices are often
volatile, with nickel surging as much as 24 percent after
plunging 31 percent this year.  Energy Prices  Aluminum will advance to $2,380 a metric ton by June
because of China’s recovery and central-bank actions in Europe
and the U.S., Smirk said. That will boost energy prices, which
account for about 40 percent of smelters’ production costs.
Nickel, used in stainless steel, will climb 15 percent to
$18,500 a ton, as copper rallies as much as 12 percent to $8,500
a ton and zinc gains 8.6 percent to $2,100 a ton, he says.  Barclays Plc raised its estimates for aluminum’s  supply
glut  this year and next in a report Nov. 8 and forecast
declining prices. Credit Suisse Group AG cut its copper
forecasts on Oct. 25, citing “lackluster” demand and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said in a report Nov. 8 it was “increasingly
cautious” about the metal in the next several months, in part
because of record stockpiles in  China ’s bonded warehouses.  Aluminum will average $2,200 in the second quarter, copper
$8,225, zinc $2,200 and nickel $18,875, according to the medians
of as many as 21 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic Cycles  Nickel led declines on the London Metal Exchange this year,
dropping 14 percent, followed by aluminum’s 3.2 percent retreat.
Copper rose 0.3 percent while zinc advanced 4.8 percent. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities fell 0.9 percent
and the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities gained 6.2
percent. Treasuries returned 2.8 percent, a Bank of America
Corp. index shows.  Smirk’s focus on economic cycles gave him an advantage in
commodity forecasting this year because his bank was predicting
slowing Chinese growth more than a year ago. The nation consumes
43 percent of all aluminum, 41 percent of copper, 44 percent of
nickel and 43 percent of zinc, Barclays estimates. Other
investors are also adding more economists to their teams.  “I don’t see that as an edge, but a must,” said Itay Simkin, the chief executive officer of Krom River Trading AG in
Baar,  Switzerland , which has a commodities hedge fund managing
about $730 million. The fund added two macro-economic experts to
its investment committee in the past 18 months, he said.  Monetary Fund  China’s economy  is at a turning point both for policy and
inventories, said Smirk, who worked as a property manager in
rural  Western Australia  before studying economics at Murdoch
University in the mid-1990s. Europe’s debt crisis is stabilizing
and the U.S. recovery continues, said Smirk, who was at the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia for four years before joining Westpac.  The S&P GSCI gauge has fallen for two months because of
concern about the pace of economic recovery. The  International
Monetary Fund  cut its 2013 global growth estimate to 3.6 percent
in October from 3.9 percent in July. The euro economy won’t
expand again until the third quarter, forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg show. Europe consumes 18 percent of the world’s copper
and 14 percent of its aluminum, Barclays estimates.  Japan contracted last quarter at the fastest pace since the
earthquake and tsunami in March 2011, the government said Nov.
12. The U.S. risks entering a recession that will hurt global
growth should Congress allow the so-called fiscal cliff of about
$600 billion of tax increases and spending cuts to take effect
next year,  Fitch Ratings  said Nov. 8.  Consecutive Year  Smirk was also the most-accurate gold forecaster in the
second quarter, according to a separate Bloomberg ranking for
that period, as the metal retreated the most in almost four
years. Bullion is rising for a 12th consecutive year, the
longest streak in at least nine decades, and investor holdings
in exchange-traded products backed by the metal reached a
record, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Because I’m an economist, I don’t see a lot of value in
 gold  and I tend to miss the bullish runs that come through,”
said the father of two, who’s also responsible for Westpac’s
forecasts for Australian inflation and labor-market data. “The
stability that we’re seeing in  gold prices  at these levels has
caught me by surprise.”  Smirk says his best call was in  iron ore , having correctly
forecast the plunge that drove prices down 42 percent from mid-
April to early September. Costs have since rallied 41 percent to
$122.40 a ton and “we’ve probably seen the worst,” Smirk said,
predicting $170 by June.  “Our view for commodities is very much driven by our view
on growth and how the financial markets are working,” he said.
“Being such a small house, we don’t have enough time to get an
intimate knowledge of each micro-commodity. In some ways it
helps us because we don’t get bogged down in detail.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  