-- Best Buy CEO Hubert Joly Considers Buying Electronics Brands
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-11-14T21:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/best-buy-ceo-joly-considers-buying-electronics-brands-for-stores.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY)  Chief Executive Officer
Hubert Joly is considering buying consumer electronics brands as
a way of locking up exclusive merchandise as he seeks to turn
around the world’s largest gadgets retailer.  Examples of well-known brand names Best Buy could buy or
license might include Hitachi and JVC, Joly, 53, said in an
interview today at Bloomberg News headquarters in  New York . He
also plans to expand Best Buy’s private-label business, which
includes the Insignia and Rocketfish brands. The company isn’t
interested in acquiring manufacturing capabilities, he said.  The move into exclusive merchandise is part of a strategy
to reverse same-store sales that have slid in eight of the last
nine quarters amid heightened competition from Amazon.com Inc.
and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Joly is also accelerating a push into services,
led by the Geek Squad, an army of 20,000 technicians. Another
possibility is leasing consumer electronics to homeowners,
generating fees from connecting and updating devices.  The services strategy is akin to what International
Business Machines Corp. achieved under former CEO Lou Gerstner,
Joly said.  “Gerstner used services to lead the transformation of the
company, and we have a similar opportunity,” he said.
“Services can play a huge role.”  Best Buy posted a $1.2 billion net loss in its latest
fiscal year and said last month that fiscal third-quarter profit
will probably be “significantly” below last year’s results as
sales at established stores decline. The shares dropped 2.4
percent to $15.33 at the close in New York. They have tumbled 34
percent this year.  Turnaround Models  Turnarounds by IBM,  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
serve as models for Best Buy, Joly said. The Richfield,
Minnesota-based retailer lacks the connection to consumers
enjoyed by rivals Apple and Amazon.  “Best Buy has lost a little bit of this,” he said. “We
need to reinvent our brand identity.”  As he was competing for the Best Buy CEO job, Joly said he
read Gerstner’s “Who Says Elephants Can’t Dance?” and
Starbucks founder and CEO  Howard Schultz ’s “Onward: How
Starbucks Fought for Its Life without Losing Its Soul.” He also
read “American Icon:  Alan Mulally  and the Fight to Save Ford
Motor Company” by Bryce G. Hoffman.  Buyout Overtures  Joly, who took charge in September after the company
received buyout overtures from founder Richard Schulze, met with
analysts yesterday in New York and laid out his strategy to
revive the retailer. Dubbed “Renew Blue,” after the shirts
worn by store employees, the effort aims to improve service by
giving employees more training, working with vendors on
exclusive products and cutting costs to improve profitability.  Best Buy is spending more to train employees and plans no
cuts of store employees, who are critical to reversing falling
same-store sales and narrowing operating margin, Joly said.  “I like that Joly has a lot of ideas and is open to trying
lots of different things,”  Colin McGranahan , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, said today in an e-mail.
“But the structural challenges are still very significant.”  Leasing electronics to consumers is “a neat idea but a
very niche idea and a very niche market,” said McGranahan, who
rates Best Buy as hold. “Does the consumer want a tired brand
or do they want Samsung?”  Joly also is planning a major online push.  Online Priority  “We are making online and e-commerce our No. 1 priority,”
he told reporters yesterday. The goal is to boost Best Buy’s
share of U.S. online sales from 7 percent to 18 percent, the
market share of its stores, he said in the interview today.  Of the 1 billion visitors to Best Buy’s website last year,
1.3 percent bought something while another 9 percent wanted to
and didn’t, according to a company booklet handed out at the
analysts’ meeting yesterday. They didn’t buy because the site
lacked product information, the product wasn’t available and
prices were too high, according to the pamphlet.  Best Buy plans to “put the pedal to the metal in digital”
to generate repeat Web visits, Joly said today. The retailer
might consider add-ons like Amazon Prime, a $79-annual service
that gives Amazon shoppers free two-day shipping and instant
streaming of movies and television shows.  Joly will take a “very sharp look” at the Best Buy’s
international business, which generates 25 percent of revenue
and includes stores in  Canada ,  Europe  and  China . While Best Buy
must decide whether being global makes sense given that the
international operations are lagging behind the U.S., it’s
premature to discuss whether the assets will be sold, he said.  Asked whether he’s committed to the international
operations, Joly said, “I have a very, very strong commitment
to our shareholders.”  Schulze, who resigned as chairman in June, offered to take
the company private at $24 to $26 a share two months later.
Schulze, 71, later reached an agreement with the company on
conducting due diligence on a possible deal.  While Joly has spoken with Schulze, Joly is focused on
turning around the company, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  