-- MBIA Outflanked by BofA in Toxic Bond Battle: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-11-14T16:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/mbia-outflanked-by-bofa-in-toxic-bond-battle-corporate-finance.html
Less than a week after  MBIA Inc. (MBI) 
gained the advantage in its three-year legal fight with  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  over toxic mortgage debt, the tables have turned
on the bond insurer.  MBIA shares fell the most in three years and credit-default
swaps tied to its debt surged by the most since July 2009 after
Bank of America offered yesterday to buy the insurer’s $329.1
million of 5.7 percent bonds due in December 2034. That would
block MBIA’s plan to distance itself from its cash-strapped MBIA
Insurance Corp. unit by paying bondholders to change terms
governing almost $900 million in debt.  Bank of America’s offer may provoke a liquidity crisis at
MBIA that would bolster the lender’s case against a 2009
restructuring. MBIA is separately suing Bank of America, seeking
to force it to buy back faulty loans in insured mortgage-backed
securities, and it claims the bank is delaying that case to
starve the insurer of cash.  “This is a very aggressive move by Bank of America,” said
Manal Mehta, founder of San Francisco-based hedge fund Sunesis
Capital, which owns MBIA shares. “By using their size of their
balance sheet and willfully orchestrating a liquidity squeeze by
withholding payments on put backs, Bank of America hopes to
thwart justice in this ongoing David versus Goliath battle.”  MBIA Amendment  MBIA is asking bondholders to approve its amendment by Nov.
21, offering to pay $10 per $1,000 of notes. The proposal
applies to an indenture covering $568 million of MBIA debt
issued from 1994 to 2002 and a separate provision for the bonds
sold in 2004 that are subject to the Bank of America offer.  Bank of America said it would pay par for those notes if
they’re tendered by Nov. 27, and $950 per $1,000 of face value
between then and Dec. 11, according to a statement yesterday.
Its offer is conditioned on a majority of the notes being
tendered, which assures it of being able to block the MBIA
amendment.  The securities traded at 78 cents on the dollar Nov. 8 to
yield 7.8 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. MBIA’s
$141.4 million of 6.625 notes due in October 2028 fell 5.75
cents today to 67.25 cents on the dollar to yield 11.04 percent
at 11:18 a.m. in New York, according to Trace data that includes
trades of any size.  MBIA shares slid  19 percent  to $6.81 a share yesterday, the
lowest since August 2011. The stock gained 5 percent to $7.16 at
11:26 a.m.  Legal Battle  The initial tender offer escalated a legal battle that
started in 2009, when MBIA’s soured guarantees on some of Wall
Street’s most toxic mortgage debt shut it out of its business of
backing municipal bonds. After the insurer won regulatory
approval to separate its municipal insurance into a new unit in
an attempt to revive that business,  Bank of America  was among
lenders that sued to overturn that split.  The latest offer is “an outrageous attempt to improperly
interfere in MBIA’s corporate affairs in order to pressure us to
accept a grossly unfair settlement of our fraud and contract
claims against BofA,” Kevin Brown, a spokesman for Armonk, New
York-based MBIA, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment.  Cross Default  The amendment Bank of America is seeking to block would
make a cross-default provision in the bonds that now allows
creditors to demand immediate payment from the parent company if
MBIA Insurance is seized to instead be linked to the more stable
municipal unit, National Public Finance Guarantee Corp.  “They’re trying to gain leverage,” said Bonnie Baha, the
head of global developed credit at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine
Capital LP, which oversees more than $45 billion. It’s “sort of
buying your way to the front of the line for a game that you
didn’t really want to play, anyway,” she said.  Bank of America has been delaying progress in the MBIA
suit, hoping that a default at the insurance unit while the
current cross provision is in place would provoke a liquidity
crisis at the parent, Chuck Chaplin, MBIA’s chief financial
officer, said in a telephone interview Nov. 6.  Bank of America said in the statement yesterday that the
amendment would increase the risk of regulators seizing MBIA
Insurance Corp., putting all policyholder claims in jeopardy.  ‘Reprehensible Conduct’  MBIA countered that “BofA’s own refusal to honor its
obligations and its strategy of delaying the put-back
litigation” is what raises the risk of a seizure, according to
Brown, the MBIA spokesman. “This reprehensible conduct is yet
another example of the lengths to which BofA will go to evade
its obligations to MBIA and reflects the kind of self-serving
behavior that precipitated the financial crisis and required
hundreds of billions of dollars in taxpayer funded bailouts.”  After MBIA’s announcement Nov. 7, the difference between
what credit traders demand upfront to protect against a default
by the parent company and the insurance unit soared to 30.1
percentage points, the most since March 2011, from 20.5
percentage points the previous day, according to prices from
data provider CMA. Bank of America’s offer almost erased that
increase, with the gap narrowing to 21.3 percentage points
yesterday as the cost to protect against a default by the parent
company surged, the data show.  Credit-default swaps on the parent jumped 7.2 percentage
points to 26.2 percent upfront, or $2.62 million initially for
every $10 million of protection bought, CMA prices show. That
compares with an increase of 0.9 percentage point for contracts
on the insurance unit to 47 percent upfront.  Fairholme Holdings  Bruce Berkowitz’s Fairholme Capital Management LLC holds
$11.6 million, or 3.5 percent, of the 2034 notes, as well as 3.1
percent of the company’s $270.9 million of 6.4 percent bonds
maturing in August 2022, 44 percent of the 7 percent notes due
in 2025, and 33.6 percent of the 6.625 percent notes, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Yesterday’s stock plunge cost Fairholme and private-equity
firm Warburg Pincus LLC, the insurer’s two largest  shareholders 
which together hold about 47 percent of MBIA, about $150
million, Bloomberg data show.  Jeffrey Smith, a spokesman at Warburg Pincus, didn’t return
a telephone call seeking comment on the tender offer. Messages
left at Fairholme Capital weren’t returned.  Bank of America may have purchased credit-default swaps on
MBIA Insurance Corp., which might be triggered if regulators
ordered it to stop paying claims, according to Rob Haines, an
analyst at independent debt-research firm CreditSights Inc. in
New York.  BofA ‘Desperation’  While Bank of America would benefit from its swaps position
in that case, it doesn’t want to force the toxic unit to be
seized without the parent cross-default provision in place
because regulators have indicated that swaps customers would be
considered unsecured creditors whose claims would be subordinate
to policyholders, Haines said.  MBIA’s price-to-book ratio, a measure of its share price
relative to net assets, dropped to 0.53 yesterday. That’s
cheaper than most U.S. insurers with market values bigger than
$1 billion, whose stocks on average trade above book value,
Bloomberg data show.  Bank of America’s offer shows “a certain level of
desperation,” said Jonathan Carmel, portfolio manager at Carmel
Asset Management LLC. He estimated the bank has a $6 billion
claim swaps on the insurer, which would “be diluted with all
the other claims against MBIA Corp., and they’ll still owe the
$5 billion in put backs,” he said. Bank of America’s “end game
has to be a big pool of capital, and the only pool of capital is
National so they’re going to try to get it put back together,”
he said.  MBIA will either try to buy back its bonds or will have to
increase its own offer “significantly,” Carmel said. “There
are going to be a number of shots still in this war.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  