-- Bodyguards Flank Burundi Taxman as AK-47s Back Revenue Doubling
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-11-14T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/bodyguards-flank-burundi-taxman-as-ak-47s-back-revenue-doubling.html
The instant Kieran Holmes looks like
he’s about to go anywhere in Burundi, four security guards clad
in blue camouflage and aviator sunglasses and brandishing AK-47
assault rifles spring into action.  They jump onto a flatbed truck that veers into the street
as a police officer’s whistle signals pedestrians and vehicles
to clear the path. Holmes follows behind in a bulletproof SUV.  The 59-year-old Irishman says the protection is necessary
because he’s learned of several “credible threats” on his life
since his appointment two years ago as commissioner-general of
the country’s first  tax-collection  authority. He’s been involved
in similar projects in  Rwanda , Lesotho, Swaziland and Yemen.  Holmes’s overhaul of the East African nation’s revenue-
collection system included dismissing almost all the more than
400 tax administrators and recruiting qualified replacements. He
clamped down on tax evaders, simplified procedures for filing
and seized assets for non-compliant individuals and businesses.
He even had the tax office’s cement walls taken down with
sledgehammers and installed glass doors.  “When I followed through with my promise to break every
wall, people knew I was serious,” Holmes said with an Irish
lilt in his office in Bujumbura, the capital. “They suddenly
didn’t have the protection of going into their office, closing
the door and dealing with taxpayers in secrecy.”  ‘Resounding Success’  His efforts have helped revenue double since 2009 in the
world’s  fifth-poorest  country, providing funds for projects
including developing one of the world’s 10 largest untapped
nickel deposits. Holmes’s program could serve as a model for
other sub-Saharan African nations and compares with overhauls in
 Vietnam ,  El Salvador , and Tanzania, according to Oral Williams,
the International Monetary Fund’s chief of mission for Burundi.  “The population can tangibly see the fruits of this reform
through greater accountability and increased provision of social
services,” Williams said.  Burundian President Pierre Nkurunziza, in power since 2005,
touts the revenue authority’s achievements in combatting
corruption, and the World Bank ranked Burundi the  fifth most-
improved  business reformer in its 2013 Doing Business Report. It
cited improvement in trading across borders and the combination
of multiple tax authorities into one.  Holmes, the eldest of eight children, grew up in a working
class family in Sligo, in the northwest of Ireland, where as a
teenager he hauled cargo on the docks of the port.  500-Calorie Diet  He graduated from Trinity College in Dublin with an
economics degree. The father of three has shed 19 kilograms (42
pounds) since January through a diet that included eating 500
calories daily for seven weeks, cutting out alcohol and
exercising at his home gym.  Holmes’s entry into revising tax systems started small. In
1984, he became the tax inspector of Kiribati, a 33-island
archipelago in the  Pacific Ocean  inhabited by 100,000 people,
after answering a newspaper job advertisement for the position.
From 2002 until 2010, he was an adviser to the Rwandan Revenue
Authority, where his measures helped earn the country the title
of best business  reformer  in 2010 by the  World Bank . He went to
Burundi after responding to an advertisement by TradeMark  East
Africa , a non-profit group that promotes regional integration.  “Kieran brings international best practices, having worked
all over the world,” said Frank Matsaert, chief executive
officer of TradeMark, which pays his salary. “His experience in
Rwanda has put him in good stead to understand the challenges of
a landlocked country.”  Unsanctioned Killings  Burundi, about the size of  Maryland  with 8 million people,
has been rebuilding its economy since the 2008 end of a 15-year
civil war that cost at least 300,000 lives. Its biggest foreign-
exchange earner is coffee and nine out of every 10 residents are
subsistence farmers. Activist groups including  Human Rights
Watch  say the country’s transition to peace has been slowed by
unsanctioned killings by the military and police.  In 2010, the country’s revenue services were ranked as the
 most corrupt  institution in East Africa, according to an annual
bribery index compiled by Transparency International, the
Berlin-based anti-graft watchdog. Accounting at the tax
authority was done in handwritten ledgers and two-thirds of the
6,000 accounts registered in a database were defunct.  “It was like something you would have seen 50 years ago in
developed countries,” said Gilles Brault, a technical adviser
to the  tax office .  Smugglers’ Kickbacks  Even with corruption reduced, taxpayers can find ways to
beat the system. Popular methods include companies and workers
arranging to pay taxes at below the official rates by bribing
assessors, while smugglers give a kickback to slip their goods
across borders undeclared or at reduced volumes and values.  “Many businesspeople have been against the reforms,
smugglers of course who have been accumulating illicit wealth
and some politicians,” Leonidas Havyarimana, coordinator of
Burundi’s national anti-graft strategy, said in an interview.
“But the honest ones have eventually supported them and for
that, we’re benefiting. Things are definitely changing.”  Holmes’s task is encumbered by politicians who’ve tried to
persuade him to reverse decisions to shut bank accounts, he
said. While Holmes has never been threatened personally, a
worker at his office was confronted by a gunman outside her
gate, he said.  “One of the drivers for corruption reported to me from my
staff is people asking to give money to political candidates,”
Holmes said, as he fiddled with silver bulldog cuff links he
bought in  South Africa  because they symbolize strength. “They
want to corrupt some of my staff so a bribe can be facilitated
at the agency and then passed on to a political party.”  Higher Rank  Burundi’s tax services have  risen  10 places in two years
and now rank 11th-worst out of 51 East African institutions,
according to the 2012  Transparency International  index.  Tax revenue is projected to climb to 545 billion Burundi
francs ($364 million) this year, from 300 billion francs in
2009. The tax office plans to double collections again, to 1.2
trillion francs by 2017.  Holmes said he’s also building trust with the country’s 300
biggest taxpayers, which provide 80 percent of state income,
including  Brarudi SA , the country’s main brewer majority owned
by  Heineken NV (HEIA) , and U-com, the largest mobile-phone operator.
And he has no plans to retire.  “I enjoy my work and so long as I remain healthy enough, I
shall continue working,” said Holmes, who said that in 1992 he
was kidnapped during a visit to  Lesotho , though the incident was
criminal and not job-related. “Bad stuff happens and retirement
is no protection against that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  