-- BofA Client-Meeting Quota Said to Vex Investment Bankers
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-11-14T18:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/bofa-client-meeting-quota-said-to-vex-investment-bankers.html
Bank of America Corp.  salespeople
assigned to the world’s biggest stock portfolio managers were
given new orders by their boss in September: attend at least
30 meetings a month with clients, or else.  That works out to 1.5 gatherings each business day, which
riled the staff and spurred some to exaggerate their meeting
logs to avoid missing goals ahead of bonus season, said two
people with direct knowledge of the matter. They asked for
anonymity because the new policy isn’t public.  The mandate from Soofian Zuberi, the Merrill Lynch veteran
promoted to head of global equities distribution in May, shows
the pressure Wall Street firms are under to take a bigger slice
from the world’s shrinking pie of trading fees. Some workers
regard Zuberi’s targets as unreasonably high, the people said.  “What he’s doing is pointing out that personal
relationships bring in revenue,” said Brad Hintz, an  analyst  at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. “He’s set a bar that is probably a
little too high; this is saying you’re having client lunches
five days a week and dinner about three days a week. Still, that
has value, it forces sales guys to get out there.”  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 53, has called
Bank of America’s trading units critical to reviving profit at
the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender. The firm had $3.7
billion in equities trading revenue last year -- about 4 percent
of total net revenue.  In Person  According to the people, Zuberi told his sales team of more
than 500 workers in a memo that they need to see clients in
person more often, rather than relying on e-mail and telephones.
Bank of America could improve its market share by gaining a
deeper understanding of client needs, the people said.  The 30-meeting quota is for equities sales staff members,
including those who handle specialty lines such as derivatives
and prime-brokerage. Their job is to pitch investment ideas and
deliver research to analysts and managers at institutions
including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and SAC Capital Management LLC.  Zuberi also told workers assigned to traders at  hedge funds 
and mutual funds to tally 20 meetings each month, the people
said. That’s onerous to some employees because they don’t often
leave their desks during trading hours, said one of the people.  The statistics will be internally listed so equities
employees can see where they stand, Zuberi told them in his
August e-mail, the people said. Those who fail to make the
quotas can expect  managers  to address the shortfalls at year-end
meetings, the people said. Workers use Bank of America’s
customer-tracking system to log meetings, the people said.  Face Time  The equities sales chief “knows what it takes to get a
client, knows how to put your hands around somebody’s throat and
ask for the order,” said Bruce Foerster, president of South
Beach  Capital Markets  and former head of the global equities
syndicate at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. “I’m a big believer
in face-to-face meetings so I can take the measure of somebody
that I want as a client.”  The push to increase meetings won’t necessarily result in
more commissions, said Sarah Quinlan, founder and chief
investment officer of New York-based hedge fund adviser QAM.  “It’s not the number of meetings, it’s sitting there and
coming up with a compelling idea that makes me want to feed you
that commission,” Quinlan said today on Bloomberg Television’s
“Market Makers” with  Stephanie Ruhle . “You will be out with
the clients who don’t actually have any money to spend; you’ll
find the dead body down the street and say, ‘Let’s go do
dinner.’”  Zuberi didn’t respond to voice messages and e-mails seeking
comment on his initiative. Kerrie McHugh, a Bank of America
spokeswoman, said the company had no comment.  Big Targets  Another change for the equities unit will be a focus on the
75 institutional clients seen as offering the greatest chance
for growth in global fees, one of the people said. That list is
winnowed from a previous emphasis on more than 200 accounts.  Equity desks are being squeezed amid the shift in
investment flows from stocks to bonds and as profit margins
shrink because of electronic trading. Revenue at the nine
largest Wall Street firms, excluding adjustments for debt
accounting, totaled $29.2 billion in the first nine months of
2012, an 11 percent drop from a year earlier.  Bank of America, the second-largest U.S. lender by assets,
reaped $2.54 billion in equities trading revenue in that period,
trailing  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Bank of America’s stock 
surged almost 68 percent this year through yesterday, the most in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , as its capital levels improved.  Expense Limits  Equities trading accounts for about a quarter of the
industry’s trading and investment-banking revenue and includes
commissions and gains from buying and selling stocks, futures,
options and other equity derivatives, as well as fees and
interest from providing services and lending to hedge funds.  Zuberi, who joined Merrill Lynch about 18 years ago, moved
this year to  New York  from  Hong Kong , where he was  head  of
global markets sales for  Asia . Previously, he was co-head of
 equity capital markets  in the region. Zuberi reports to global
equities chief Fabrizio Gallo.  Bank of America’s orders to dine more often with clients 
coincides with the company’s renewed drive to reduce costs, with
Moynihan seeking $8 billion in annual savings.  The firm this year reminded staff about sticking to expense
limits for meals and entertaining clients, the people said.
Those are about $150 a person for dinner, $75 for lunch and $30
for breakfast. Some who break the caps have been asked to
reimburse their employer by writing checks, angering the
bankers, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  