-- Britain’s Power Market Proposals Stall SSE Gas Plant, Chief Says
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-11-14T11:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/britain-s-power-market-proposals-stall-sse-gas-plant-chief-says.html
SSE Plc (SSE) , the U.K.’s second-biggest
energy supplier, said lack of clarity around government
proposals to reform the electricity market has stalled an
investment decision at a natural gas plant in Wales.  “With uncertainty around how capacity will be treated
under the electricity market reform proposals, we can’t yet make
a decision to invest in a new CCGT gas plant at Abernedd,” said
Chief Executive Officer Ian Marchant. “We are watching and
waiting to see how the policy agenda settles.”  The British government is about to publish final proposals
to overhaul its energy market designed to encourage 110 billion
pounds ($175 billion) of investment for replacing older plants
and upgrading the grid. A draft of the bill includes plans to
pay generators for staying online, ensuring security of supply.
The government’s climate adviser has said absence of detail
about the so-called capacity mechanism is freezing investment.  “Government has rightly said they’re going to have a
capacity mechanism, but there is a lack of clarity on what
mechanism and when,” Marchant said today on a conference call.
“The face of the bill does not give enough detail for any board
to make an investment decision.”  SSE said  in May  that the plant in Abernedd in South Wales
may not be operational before 2015.  Profits Surge  The company based in Perth,  Scotland , reported a 38 percent
rise in adjusted pre-tax profit to 397.5 million pounds ($631
million) in the six months to Sept. 30 from 287.4 million pounds
a year earlier.  SSE benefited from a return to profitability of its retail
business as cold weather drove demand, as well as a 19.3 percent
rise in operating profit at its networks segment.  The average profit margin in the retail business was 1.5
percent, working out at about 20 pence per account per week,
according to Marchant.  SSE was the first energy company to raise prices for
household gas and power in August while  Centrica Plc (CNA) ’s British
Gas and RWE Npower Plc announced increases in October. That
prompted Prime Minister David Cameron to say he’d use the
forthcoming legislation to ensure consumers get the lowest
tariffs from energy companies, who say government environmental
programs and higher wholesale prices have pushed up bills.  “The rise in energy supply costs in these areas is not
going away,” Marchant said. Operating profit for the utility’s
wholesale business dropped 45 percent to 123.2 million pounds,
as gas-fired generation “has basically not been profitable,”
he said. Marchant expects a return to normality in the next 18
months as aging coal plants retire restoring demand.  SSE would “strongly support” the Financial Services
Authority and energy regulator Ofgem as they probe wholesale
natural-gas trading price-fixing allegations, Marchant said. The
regulators have not approached SSE for assistance, he said.  “Our profits in the first half year are up 38 percent on
the previous half year, and in headlines that seems very
encouraging, indeed almost too good,” Marchant said. “In some
respects it is too good because the half year profits in our
business swing around an awful lot more, and if you look back
two years ago actually the profits were up 3 percent over a two
year period. That’s probably a better measure of how the
business is actually performing.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  