-- BSkyB Develops Set-Top Box With Roku for Web TV Service
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-11-14T00:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/bskyb-develops-set-top-box-with-roku-for-web-tv-service.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,
the U.K.’s biggest pay-television provider, is working with Roku
Inc. on a set-top box to distribute to subscribers of its new
Web-television service, as it responds to increased competition
from online rivals.  The hardware will connect TV sets to BSkyB’s Now TV,
enabling customers to view movies, live sports and other videos
available through the online service, Anthony Wood, chief
executive officer for Roku, said in an interview in  San
Francisco .  BSkyB, which debuted Now TV in July, is responding to
increased competition from companies including  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the
U.S. streaming service that started offering movies and TV shows
in the U.K. in January, and Amazon.com Inc.’s Lovefilm, which
expanded its service in the same month. Now TV can be accessed
through computers, mobile and other devices and the set-top box
giving TV access will be available next year, Wood said.  “The market is still new,” Wood said. “TVs are going to
be more like monitors, and then you’ll have a box.”  BSkyB, based in Isleworth,  England , and 39 percent owned by
 Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA) , offers the Now TV service for 8.99
pounds ($14.30) a month.  A call to its offices outside of business hours was not
immediately returned.  While the Now TV device is being built by Roku, it will not
carry the Saratoga, California-based hardware maker’s branding,
Wood said. Roku will also add a Now TV application to its own
boxes, Wood said.  BSkyB was among the companies that invested $45 million in
closely held Roku in July. Roku’s hardware business generated
more than $100 million in revenue last year and is “very
profitable,” Wood said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Milian in San Francisco at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  