-- Buffett’s Berkshire Disclosed Deere Stake
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-11-14T23:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/buffett-s-berkshire-disclosed-deere-stake.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  took a stake
in  Deere & Co. (DE)  as billionaire Chairman  Warren Buffett  entrusts
more of the company’s investment portfolio to deputy stock
pickers.  Berkshire held 3.98 million shares of the agricultural
equipment maker on Sept. 30, Buffett’s Omaha, Nebraska-based
firm said today in a filing disclosing U.S. stockholdings at the
end of the third quarter. Deere advanced 0.7 percent to $85.35
in extended trading at 5:40 p.m. in New York.  Buffett, 82, has been handing more responsibility to Todd Combs and Ted Weschler, the former hedge-fund managers he hired
to help oversee part of the company’s $88 billion equity
portfolio. Buffett said in July that each would probably oversee
about $4 billion, compared with $2.75 billion at the beginning
of the year.  Weschler and Combs “seem to get more free rein as the
quarters progress,” which shows Buffett is gaining confidence
in their abilities, said Josh Brown, who helps oversee about
$350 million at Fusion Analytics Investment Partners LLC in New
York, including Berkshire shares. “That’s probably a good
trend. You hate to see it the other way around.”  Berkshire also disclosed stakes in  Precision Castparts
Corp. (PCP) , the maker of metal components, and  Wabco Holdings Inc. (WBC) ,
the manufacturer of braking and suspension systems for
commercial vehicles.  Buffett’s company had about 1.2 million shares in Portland,
Oregon-based Precision Castparts, which closed at $173.30 today.
Piscataway, New Jersey-based Wabco advanced 33 percent this year
to $57.64. Berkshire has 1.6 million shares.  Wells Fargo  Buffett has served more than four decades as Berkshire’s
chief executive officer, capital allocator and head of
investments, building the firm through  acquisitions  and equity
bets. His stock picks are watched by mutual funds and
individuals looking for clues about his strategy.  The billionaire has said he oversees the company’s larger
holdings, including stakes in  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) , while his deputies are responsible for smaller bets. In the
past two years, Berkshire has added stakes in companies such as
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and DirecTV. Combs’s hiring was announced in
2010 and Weschler’s in 2011.  Buffett increased a bet on Wells Fargo and remains the
largest shareholder in the bank, with a stake of about 8
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Buffett has
said the San Francisco-based company’s dominance in home lending
will pay off as the housing market rebounds.  Dollar General  “They’ve got a sensational mortgage operation,” Buffett
told Bloomberg Television’s Betty Liu in July. “The total
mortgage market was at the $3 trillion level not that long ago.
If it goes back up to $3 trillion, I hope Wells is doing a third
of those.”  Berkshire exited stakes in retailers  Dollar General Corp. (DG) 
and  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  and said its holding of payments network
 Visa Inc. (V)  fell by 25 percent to 1.55 million shares, Berkshire
slashed its stake in  General Electric Co. (GE)  88 percent to less
than 600,000 shares.  Buffett’s company increased its stake in  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , owner
of Comedy Central and MTV cable channels, by 12 percent to 7.6
million shares. The stakes in  National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV)  and
General Motors also increased.  The billionaire continued cutting stakes in consumer-
products firms such as  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , Procter & Gamble Co.
and Kraft Foods Inc., which split after the third quarter’s end
into Mondelez International Inc. and Kraft Foods Group Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  