-- Bugs Damaging Monsanto Corn May Do Same to Syngenta Crops
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-11-14T16:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/bugs-damaging-monsanto-corn-may-do-same-to-syngenta-crops-1-.html
Rootworms, the most costly pest
affecting the U.S. Corn Belt, are showing signs of resistance to
 Syngenta AG (SYNN) ’s genetically modified corn just as they do with
crops developed by  Monsanto Co. (MON) , researchers said at a
conference.  Switzerland ’s Syngenta, the world’s largest producer of
crop chemicals, and St. Louis-based Monsanto compete to supply
farmers with corn containing a genetic trait that enables it to
produce its own pesticide. Rootworm resistance, first documented
last year in  Iowa  and suspected in  Illinois ,  Minnesota  and
 Nebraska , is forcing farmers to spray crops with the kind of
chemical pesticides the modified corn was supposed to avoid.  Laboratory experiments show Syngenta’s Agrisure corn may
have “cross-resistance” with Monsanto’s YieldGard corn,
meaning the crop is vulnerable to the same rootworms that are no
longer killed by Monsanto’s toxin, said Sarah N. Zukoff, a
doctoral candidate at the University of Missouri, and Bruce E.
Hibbard, a research entomologist with the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture . They spoke yesterday in a presentation at the
annual meeting of the Entomological Society of America in
Knoxville,  Tennessee .  Cross-Resistance  Cross-resistance may already be showing up in Nebraska
cornfields, said Lance Meinke, an entomology professor at the
University of Nebraska in Lincoln. Meinke presented preliminary
data showing rootworms collected this year in Wayne County have
“low-level” resistance to Monsanto engineered corn, probably
because farmers over-used the technology.  Syngenta corn had similarly poor performance even though it
had never before been planted in the experimental field, Meinke
said.  Rootworm can cause $1 billion of damage annually, making it
the most costly corn pest, according to the USDA. There’s
“mounting evidence” that resistance is developing in multiple
states, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency said in August.  “This has been the most difficult insect to control in the
Corn Belt in my lifetime,” Dirk Benson, Syngenta’s head of
trait projects, said by phone yesterday. “We are very concerned
about trait performance.”  Seeds accounted for $3.19 billion of Basel-based Syngenta’s
2011 sales, or 24 percent of total revenue, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Monsanto  Monsanto, the world’s biggest seed company, sold enough of
its rootworm-killing corn last year to cover 37 million acres
(15 million hectares), with 75,000 acres showing “unexpected
damage” from the pest, William J. Moar, the company’s corn
insect-resistance management technical lead, said yesterday in a
presentation at the conference. That figure dropped to 45,000
acres this year, said Kelly J. Klauss, a company spokeswoman.  Monsanto’s YieldGard corn is engineered to produce the
Cry3Bb1 protein derived from Bacillus thuringiensis, or Bt, a
natural insecticide. Syngenta’s Agrisure produces a similar
insecticidal protein known as mCry3a.  Rootworms known to be resistant to Cry3Bb1 survived feeding
on Syngenta’s corn and caused root damage at higher-than-
expected rates, said Zukoff, the  University of Missouri 
researcher.  “This does suggest the possibility of cross-resistance
between these proteins,” she said in the presentation.  Zukoff’s study is preliminary and some of it doesn’t
support the possibility of cross-resistance, Syngenta’s Benson
said.  “They have an indication of concern,” Benson said. “More
study is needed.”  DuPont Corn  Benson also disagreed with Meinke’s suggestion that
rootworms in Nebraska may be resistant to Syngenta corn. The
more likely explanation for the unexpected damage was high bug
concentrations feeding on young plants in an unusually early
spring, Benson said.  Monsanto says farms with suspected resistance are rare.
Growers can avoid problems by rotating to non-corn crops or
switching to a product such as SmartStax, which includes a
second trait that kills rootworms, and following planting
recommendations, Klauss said in an e-mail.  “In 2012, corn-rootworm protected products containing the
Cry3Bb1 protein provided exceptional value to growers on greater
than 99.8% of the acres where the technology was planted,” she
said.  SmartStax  Monsanto’s SmartStax combines the company’s technology with
Herculex, a Bt corn developed by  DuPont Co. (DD)  and  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) 
Herculex didn’t exhibit cross-resistance in Zukoff’s experiment.
That trait is coming under increased rootworm pressure as
growers switch from Monsanto’s YieldGard in the hope of keeping
resistant insects at bay, the USDA’s Hibbard said.  SmartStax may be vulnerable in areas where rootworms have
already overcome the Monsanto trait, Hibbard said. Resistant
varieties of rootworm have been developed in laboratories for
every type of Bt crop, so field resistance is “almost certainly
possible for every Bt product that is out there,” he said.  DuPont plans to add the Syngenta trait to its Herculex corn
varieties next year because adding the second toxin should deter
resistance, Marlin E. Rice, a senior research scientist with the
company’s Pioneer seed unit, said today in a presentation. He
declined to say whether the company’s field trials of the new
combination have found cross-resistance to the Syngenta
technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  