-- Bundesbank Says Financial Stability Risks Haven’t Receded
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-11-14T10:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/bundesbank-says-debt-crisis-greatest-risk-to-financial-stability.html
The Bundesbank said risks to
financial stability haven’t receded even after the  European
Central Bank ’s bond-purchase plan calmed financial markets.  “The risks to the German financial system are no lower in
2012 than they were in 2011,”  Germany ’s central bank said in
its Financial Stability Review released in  Frankfurt  today.
“The European sovereign debt crisis remains the greatest threat
to financial stability in Germany.”  With at least five euro-area members in recession and
rising debt yields in countries like Spain and Italy threatening
the common currency, the ECB in August announced its unlimited
bond-buying program to ease market turmoil. Bundesbank President
Jens Weidmann opposed the plan, saying it is tantamount to
financing governments.  “Monetary policy cannot eliminate the causes of the
crisis; it can only buy time,” Sabine Lautenschlaeger, deputy
president of the Bundesbank, said in a press release today.
“Central banks had already done a lot to that end.”  There’s a risk that the ECB’s short-term crisis-fighting
measures will overburden its medium-term oriented monetary
policy, the Bundesbank said in the report.  ‘Good News’  Still, “there is good news regarding German banks,” the
Bundesbank said. “In response to the sovereign debt crisis, the
group of 12 major German banks with an international focus
significantly reduced their exposure to borrowers in Greece,
Spain,  Portugal  and Italy between mid-2010 and mid-2012.”  This has “reduced the threat of cross-border contagion”
and made the German banking system “much more resilient than
before,” the Bundesbank said.  “Tier-1  capital ratios  have increased distinctly,” it
said. “Between March 2008 and September 2012, the tier-1
capital ratio of the group of 12 major German banks with an
international focus rose from 8.3 percent to 13.6 percent of
their risk-weighted assets.”  At the same time, a worsening of the situation in  Europe 
“would have a significant adverse impact on German banks and
insurers,” the Bundesbank said. “In addition, low  interest
rates , high liquidity and potential exaggerations in the German
real-estate market could pose a future threat to financial
stability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  