-- Bundesbank Questions Legality of ECB Banking Supervision
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-11-14T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/bundesbank-questions-legality-of-ecb-banking-supervision.html
The Bundesbank questioned the
legality of the  European Central Bank  becoming a single
supervisor for all 6,000 euro-area banks.  It is not clear that article 127 paragraph 6 of the
European Union Treaty “allows such a broad transfer of
duties,” the Bundesbank said in its 2012 Financial Stability
Review published in  Frankfurt  today. The supervision role must
be kept completely separate from monetary policy and “it is
doubtful that the granting of decision-making rights to a new
body apart from the ECB Governing Council is in agreement with
European primary law,” the Bundesbank said.  European leaders in June agreed to hand the ECB powers to
oversee all euro-area banks as part of a so-called banking union
that would unlock joint recapitalization funds for the region’s
ailing lenders. While leaders set a start date of Jan. 1, 2013,
the ECB is pushing for more time, saying it may not
operationally start to supervise banks before 2014.  The Bundesbank said the assumption of bank supervisory
duties by the ECB “requires special measures to avoid conflicts
of interest between monetary policy and bank supervision, as
well as to avoid impinging on the independence of the central
bank.” The ECB’s primary goal of guaranteeing  price stability 
“can’t be endangered,” it said.  Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg yesterday said EU
leaders should consider a treaty change to ensure equitable
treatment of all 27 EU nations under proposals for a single bank
supervisor.  Weighted Voting  Under the European Commission’s plan, a supervisory panel
separate from the ECB’s Governing Council would be responsible
for banking supervision.  “In itself the construction of such a panel is to be
welcomed,” the Bundesbank said, before going on to say it may
not be legal. It added that, “due to the fiscal implications of
bank-supervisory decisions, it would be appropriate to weight
members’ votes according to the ECB capital key, and not
according to the hitherto dominant system of one member one
vote.”  Germany  is at odds with European authorities on whether the
ECB should supervise all euro-area financial institutions or
only systemically important ones.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  advocated
limiting supervision to big banks. ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said yesterday in Brussels that the ECB must be able
to assert control over all banks in participating countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  