-- Business Tax Breaks Remain in Flux, U.S. House’s Camp Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-11-14T16:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/business-tax-breaks-remain-in-flux-u-s-house-s-camp-says-1-.html
The fate of lapsed and expiring
business tax breaks, including credits for corporate research
and wind energy, remains “in flux” and will be addressed
alongside the rest of the fiscal cliff, said Representative Dave Camp, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee.  Camp’s committee has been studying the dozens of temporary
breaks in the U.S. tax code with the aim of deciding after the
Nov. 6 election which ones to keep and which to jettison. He
said he had some sense of what he wants to do, though the issue
must wait for resolution of other tax and spending issues facing
Congress this year.  “Frankly, we’ve got to have the president have some
substantive meetings with our leadership, and that hasn’t
happened yet,” Camp, a Michigan Republican, told reporters in
Washington today. “There’s really not much we can do right
now.”  Companies including  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) ,
Caterpillar Inc. and Intel Corp. rely on tax breaks that are in
the package. Some of the breaks expired at the end of 2011 and
others will lapse at the end of this year.  The list of breaks includes a benefit for multinational
financial services companies, a credit for short-line railroads
and accelerated depreciation for motorsports facilities. Breaks
for individuals are also on the list, including a deduction for
teachers’ out-of-pocket expenses and the option to deduct state
sales taxes.  The Senate Finance Committee voted 19-5 on Aug. 2 to back a
$205 billion measure that would extend most of the breaks
through 2013. That measure hasn’t reached the Senate floor for a
vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  