-- Business Inventories in U.S. Climb at Slower Pace Than Sales
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-11-14T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/business-inventories-in-u-s-climb-at-slower-pace-than-sales.html
Inventories in the U.S. climbed at a
slower pace than sales in September, indicating companies were
heading into the disruptions caused by superstorm Sandy with
little oversupply.  The 0.7 percent increase in goods on hand followed a 0.6
percent gain in August, Commerce Department data showed today in
 Washington . Sales at factories, wholesalers and retailers rose
1.4 percent, the biggest gain since March 2011, after advancing
0.6 percent the prior month.  The drop in retail sales as the storm struck last month may
challenge companies to keep enough goods stockpiled just as
spending languishes under the threat of changes in domestic
fiscal policy next year. At the same time, preparations for
holiday purchases and a need to boost dwindling inventories may
help bolster production through year-end.  “The fiscal cliff is going to keep businesses cautious,”
 David Sloan , a senior economist at 4Cast Inc. in  New York , said
before the report. “They’re going to want to keep inventories
reasonably lean.”  The increase in inventories compared with a  median  forecast
for a 0.6 percent gain, according to 45 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Estimates ranged from no change to a 0.8 percent
rise. August stockpiles were unrevised from the prior estimate.  Other reports today showed retail  sales  fell in October for
the first time in four months, and wholesale prices dropped
unexpectedly.  Retail Sales  The 0.3 percent decrease in retail purchases followed a 1.3
percent September advance that was larger than previously
reported, Commerce Department figures showed. The government
said it was able to collect information from the areas affected
by superstorm Sandy, even as it was not able to quantify whether
it had a negative or positive impact on receipts.  Wholesale prices fell 0.2 percent in October, led by
falling fuel and vehicle costs, the Labor Department also
reported.  Auto demand dropped to a 14.2 million pace in October after
the tempest slammed the East Coast during the auto industry’s
busiest time of the month. Carmakers have said those sales
should be made up by the end of the year.  Nissan alone estimates more than 6,000 Nissan and luxury
Infiniti brand cars and light trucks are “un-saleable” because
of the storm, Travis Parman, a company spokesman, said last
week. Including used autos and those of individual owners, as
many as 200,000 may have to be replaced, said Larry Dixon,
senior analyst for the National Automobile Dealers Association.  Inventory, Sales  At the current sales pace, businesses had enough goods on
hand to last 1.28 months in September, down from 1.29 months in
August.  Companies such as Denver-based Molson Coors Brewing Co.
have yet to see a rebound in sales at year’s end.  “We saw a decline in consumer demand across our businesses
in the third quarter and we expect the fourth quarter to be the
most challenging of this year with difficult profit comparisons
in  Canada  and the UK and higher costs in the U.S. and  Central
Europe ,” Peter Swinburn, the company’s president and chief
executive officer, said on a Nov. 7 conference call.  In addition to “continued industry weakness,” the
National Hockey League lockout, as a result of a dispute between
the league and its players’ union, has negatively impacted
business, Swinburn said.  Retailers’ inventories, the only part of today’s stockpile
report not previously released, increased 0.3 percent as sales
advanced 1.3 percent. That pushed the inventory-to-sales ratio
down to 1.36 months from 1.38 months in August.  Hiring Pickup  Employment figures released earlier this month by the Labor
Department showed the economy added 171,000 workers last month
after a revised 148,000 gain in September that was more than
initially estimated. The jobless rate rose to 7.9 percent from
7.8 percent as more people entered the  labor force .  The  Federal Open Market Committee , aiming to spur growth
and reduce unemployment, on Oct. 24 affirmed plans to buy $40
billion of mortgage-backed securities each month without
specifying the total size or duration of the purchases.  Wholesale inventories, which account for about 30 percent
of all business stockpiles, jumped at a higher-than-expected 1.1
percent in September as sales also advanced, Commerce Department
data showed. Factory inventories, which comprise about 38
percent of the total, climbed 0.6 percent in September for a
second month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  