-- McAfee Founder’s Guard Arrested as Belize Investigates Killing
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o   a n d   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-11-14T22:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/mcafee-founder-s-guard-arrested-as-belize-investigates-killing.html
The British bodyguard of John McAfee, the fugitive founder of the anti-virus software maker,
was detained by Belize’s police today as they investigate the
murder of a U.S. citizen in the Central American country.  Belize’s police detained 29-year-old bodyguard William
Mulligan and 22-year-old Stefanie Mulligan today, according to a
statement today from Raphael Martinez, a spokesman for the
National Security Ministry. The arrests followed a Nov. 11
search of McAfee’s home on the island of Ambergris Caye in which
they found two unregistered shotguns, Martinez said. William
Mulligan was living at the residence.  McAfee, in an interview published on Wired magazine’s
website, said he is afraid to turn himself in for questioning in
the killing of Gregory Faull, a 52-year-old contractor and
Florida native. Yesterday McAfee reported burying himself in the
sand with a cardboard box over his head so he could breathe when
police arrived at his home.  “Belize is, today, still a pirate haven,” McAfee said in
a letter  published  by Wired today. “The list of people who have
died while in the custody of Belizean police would fill a phone
book from an average American town.”  McAfee has been asked to explain what he knows of Faull,
Martinez said.  Yoga Fan  “At this time Mr. McAfee’s whereabouts remain unknown,”
Martinez said in a phone interview from Belmopan, Belize’s
biggest city. “We continue to encourage residents and members
of the press to urge him to turn himself in for questioning. We
are hopeful he will do so before the end of the week.”  McAfee, a 67-year-old yoga enthusiast, relocated to Belize
in 2008 after his $100 million fortune was reduced to $4 million
after a series of failed investments in property, real estate
and bonds at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to a 2009
article in the  New York  Times.  Intel Corp. (INTC)  agreed to buy McAfee
Inc. for $7.68 billion, at the time its largest acquisition, in
2010.  McAfee spokeswoman Tracy Ross said Nov. 12 that the company
doesn’t comment on former employees and that he “retired from
McAfee in 1994, and has not had any affiliation with the company
since then,” in an e-mail response to requests for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  