-- California Carbon Futures Slip as State Sells Allowances
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-11-15T04:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/california-carbon-futures-slip-ahead-of-first-allowance-auction.html
California  carbon futures fell 2
percent yesterday as the state auctioned its first greenhouse-
gas allowances, brushing aside a lawsuit challenging its
authority to start the largest U.S. cap-and-trade program.  The state Air Resources Board offered 23.1 million carbon
allowances for the first phase of trading beginning Jan. 1 and
39.5 million for the second phase starting in 2015. Each permit
allows the release of one metric ton of carbon. The California
Chamber of Commerce filed suit Nov. 13 against the auction,
calling it “an unconstitutional fee.”  California carbon futures fell to a new low yesterday as
investors waited for the state to disclose on Nov. 19 how many
permits were sold and the price paid. The program covers 85
percent of emissions in an economy valued at $1.74 trillion last
year. California is giving away about 90 percent of allowances
in the first phase and auctioning the rest in what will be the
second-biggest carbon market, after the European Union program.  “We’re not likely to see any significant price movements
between now and when we find out what the results of the auction
are,” Lenny Hochschild, head of global carbon trading for
Evolution Markets, said by telephone from San Francisco
yesterday. “Prices are slightly down, but it’s so slight that
I’d say the market reaction to the lawsuit has been muted.”  Futures Prices  Futures contracts  based on carbon permits for 2013, the
first year of compliance under the program, fell 25 cents to
$12.15 a metric ton yesterday, according to data compiled by  CME
Group Inc. (CME) ’s Green Exchange in New York. Permits are down 40
percent from this year’s high of $20.25 on July 24.  “Supply was pretty healthy, and it’s unclear how many
buyers are interested in getting in,” Gary Stern, director of
market strategy and resource planning for  Edison International (EIX) 
in Rosemead, California, said by phone yesterday. “So there’s
potential that the market will be soft for those reasons.”  Edison’s Southern California Edison utility submitted bids
in yesterday’s auction, he said.  Jon Costantino, a senior adviser with law firm Manatt,
Phelps & Phillips LLP in Sacramento and previously climate-
change planning manager at the California Air Resources Board,
said before the auction started that participants might “think
twice” about buying permits because of the chamber’s lawsuit.  “There is definitely concern, especially among those who
are active in the carbon market,” he said.  Expected Prices  Permits for the first compliance period were expected to
clear between $12 and $15 a ton in yesterday’s auction,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The state air
resources board won’t release the number of units sold or the
price paid until after the results are reviewed by a market
monitor and certified by the agency.  “With no pricing information being revealed today, it’s
not surprising that the market tone hasn’t changed,” Samantha Katz, managing director at BGC Environmental Brokerage Services
LP in New York, said by phone after the auction ended.  California plans to cap carbon emissions beginning next
year from power generators, oil refineries and other industrial
plants. The limit will decline each year to achieve a 15 percent
reduction in emissions by 2020. Companies must surrender carbon
permits to cover their emissions over three phases of the
program. Those that discharge less than their cap can sell their
spare allowances.  Lawsuit Arguments  The Chamber of Commerce argued in its lawsuit that the air
board lacks authority to sell carbon allowances, saying it’s
paramount to an invalid tax costing taxpayers $70 billion.  The board is “confident that the cap-and-trade program
will withstand any court challenge,” Stanley Young, a spokesman
for the panel in  Sacramento , said by e-mail Nov. 13.  Market liquidity has already been “crippled by buyer and
seller hesitation to sign forward contracts,” Thomas Marcello,
a Bloomberg New Energy Finance analyst in New York, said in a
research note Nov. 8.  Some permits for the second phase are expected to go unsold
as fuel suppliers wait to stockpile credits, he said.  The EU will auction most of its emission permits starting
next year after giving away the majority of each year’s
allocation since 2005.  Australia  plans its first carbon auction
in 2014.  California Governor Jerry Brown, Oregon Governor John Kitzhaber, Washington Governor Christine Gregoire and British
Columbia Premier Christy Clark issued a joint statement as the
auction was under way stressing the need for a price on carbon.
British Columbia adopted a revenue-neutral carbon tax in 2008.  The group, which met in San Francisco this week at the
GreenBuild 2012 conference, described California’s program and
British Columbia’s tax as “two examples of tools that help more
accurately price energy resources and continue the transition to
a 21st century energy infrastructure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  