-- Carphone Warehouse Rises on Dividend Prospects: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-11-14T17:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/carphone-warehouse-rises-on-dividend-prospects-london-mover.html
Carphone Warehouse Group Plc (CPW)  rose to
the highest price in almost 10 months in London trading after
Chief Executive Officer Roger Taylor said  Europe ’s largest
mobile-phone retailer will consider raising dividends next year.  Sales prospects for the holiday season are the best in at
least three years with the widespread availability of
smartphones that cost less than 100 pounds ($159), Taylor said
today in a telephone interview.  “I am more optimistic about consumers this Christmas than
for the last couple of years,” Taylor said. “I think
smartphones will genuinely become stocking fillers for
Christmas. It definitely feels much better.”  Carphone Warehouse is paying  dividends  out of group
resources rather than earnings and today left its interim payout
unchanged at 1.75 pence a share. It will review the policy next
year as it starts receiving dividends from the  Carphone
Warehouse  Europe venture, Taylor said in the interview.
Bloomberg’s  projection  for the shareholder payment to be
declared in June 2013 is 3.25 pence, the same as a year earlier.  The  shares  rose 4.8 percent to 184 pence, the highest since
Jan. 27, extending the gain this year to 24 percent. It was the
fourth-best performer in the  FTSE U.K. All Cap Index. (ACGBR)  Charles Dunstone, the founder and chairman of Carphone, owns 28 percent
of the company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue at Carphone Warehouse Europe rose 1.6 percent on a
same-store basis in the six months ended Sept. 30, as sales
gained momentum in the second quarter, the company said today in
a statement. The retailer reiterated full-year guidance for
earnings before interest and taxes at the venture, which it
shares with  Best Buy Co. (BBY) , of as much as 150 million pounds.  Buyout Offer  Best Buy has resisted recent buyout overtures from founder
Richard Schulze, who resigned as chairman in June. Schulze, 71,
offered to take the company private at $24 to $26 a share two
months later and has since reached an agreement with the company
on conducting due diligence for a possible deal.  A buyout would give Carphone Warehouse the right to buy the
50 percent of Carphone Warehouse Europe it doesn’t own at a 10
percent discount, Richard Chamberlain, an analyst at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, said in a note Nov. 9. That would
probably boost earnings by more than 10 percent, he said.  “The matter is out of our hands,” Taylor said in an e-
mailed response to a question. “Clearly an awful lot of hurdles
would have to be negotiated before such a situation arose but we
will examine any opportunity that presents itself.”  Carphone Warehouse’s first-half adjusted pretax profit rose
30 percent to 8.6 million pounds, slightly ahead of a prediction
by Chamberlain.  The company “should be well-placed to benefit from a
stronger product cycle going forward,” said the London-based
analyst, who last week raised his recommendation on the stock to
neutral.  More than 1 million Carphone Warehouse shares traded,
almost four times the three-month daily average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  