-- Thomas Jefferson Would Say Anything for a Cause: Books
-- B y   J o e   M y s a k
-- 2012-11-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/charming-thomas-jefferson-would-say-anything-for-a-cause-books.html
The title of  Jon Meacham ’s new book
may be “ Thomas Jefferson: The Art of Power ,” but make no
mistake: This is a full biographical treatment of perhaps the
most charming and unknowable of the founders. Impeccably
researched and footnoted, it’s a model of clarity and
explanation.  Unlike its subject, “Thomas Jefferson” is not stylish.
Meacham distills, and explains, and explains, and explains.
Consider this not untypical passage, on the death of Jefferson’s
mother:  “Already immersed in the most difficult and fearful of
political enterprises -- revolution and the creation of a new
form of government -- Jefferson was brought face-to-face with
one of the deepest personal crises a man can experience. In
their parents, children ideally have sources of protection and
comfort and love. Parents can also be sources of irritation,
fear and anxiety. Their deaths thus represent both loss and
liberation.”  And yet this kind of approach -- methodical, one might say
leisurely -- may be ideal, because so much about Jefferson is
necessarily speculative. Meacham again and again couches his
sentences with constructions such as “The likely truth is
that” and “It is also possible.”  Political Animal  There are a couple of reasons for this. One is that
Jefferson was apt to write or say just about anything. “He was
always in favor of whatever means would improve the chances of
his cause of the hour,” according to  Meacham , who is a former
editor of  Newsweek .  “He was not intellectually consistent, but a consistent
theme did run through his politics and statecraft: He would do
what it took, within reason, to arrange the world as he wanted
it to be.”  It’s also hard to paint a definitive portrait of the man
because half his life was lived in the shadows. Meacham writes,
“Jefferson maintained a decades-long liaison with Sally
Hemings, his late wife’s enslaved half-sister who tended to his
personal quarters at Monticello. They produced six children
(four of whom lived) and gave rise to two centuries of
speculation about the true nature of the affair.  “Was it about love? Power? Both? And if both, how much was
affection, and how much coercion? Jefferson’s connection with
Sally Hemings lasted from about 1787 to Jefferson’s death in
1826 -- almost forty years.” This was a relationship most
historians couldn’t bring themselves to consider until recent
times.  Dark Side  The darker side of life at Monticello is the subject of
Henry Wiencek’s new “ Master of the Mountain :  Thomas Jefferson 
and His Slaves.” Meacham candidly admits that Jefferson “was
to embody the slave-owning interest” in all his major postings
and into his old age, then moves on.  For Wiencek, Thomas Jefferson is all about slavery, its
economics, its brutality, its tragedy. Which leads us to the
biography-reader’s inevitable dilemma: What was the subject
really like?  Meacham can imagine sitting down with Jefferson and
enjoying a glass of claret with the brilliant Renaissance man
familiar to us all.  Wiencek finds Jefferson a much sadder case, a man seduced
and corrupted by the dollars and cents of slavery. His Jefferson
is unredeemed and unheroic. To understand the third president in
context, stick with Meacham.  “Thomas Jefferson” is from  Random House  (759 pages, $35).
“Master of the Mountain” is from Farrar, Straus and Giroux
(336 pages, $28). To buy these books in  North America , click
 here  and  here .  ( Joe Mysak  is editor of Bloomberg Brief’s Municipal Market
and author of “The Encyclopedia of Municipal Bonds.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  Katya
Kazakina  on art.  To contact the writer of this column:
Joe Mysak in  New York  at 
 jmysakjr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 