-- Chavez Mulls Revamping Currency Controls as Bolivar Plunges
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-11-14T19:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/chavez-mulls-revamping-currency-controls-as-bolivar-plunges.html
Venezuela  is weighing changes to a
central bank system used to control the foreign-exchange rate
after the bolivar fell to a record in black-market trading,
fueling speculation the currency will be devalued.  The central bank is selling fewer dollars on the Sitme
system at a rate of 5.3 bolivars per  U.S. dollar  to limit its
losses as the Venezuelan currency is trading above 13 in the
unregulated market, said a government official with direct
knowledge of the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity
because no final decision has been made. The person declined to
provide additional details other than saying scrapping the Sitme
was a possibility.  Declining trading volumes in the Sitme are fueling
speculation that President  Hugo Chavez  will devalue the bolivar
after winning re-election, said  Asdrubal Oliveros , director of
Caracas-based financial consultancy Ecoanalitica. Chavez, who
won last month’s election by more than 10 percentage points
after increasing spending by 20.5 percent in real terms in the
first nine months of the year, will need to devalue the currency
in the first quarter of 2013 to boost oil revenue and help close
a fiscal deficit, according to Bank of America Corp.  “The decision to reduce the supply of dollars on the Sitme
is deliberate and is part of a transition,” Luis Vicente Leon,
president of Caracas-based polling company Datanalisis, said
today in a telephone interview.  The more ideological wing of Chavez’s government, which
includes Finance Minister  Jorge Giordani , wants to deepen
socialism in the South American country and reduce the amount of
nonessential goods that are imported using a black market that
officials don’t control, he said.  Cutting Supply  Only $18.8 million was sold on the Sitme on Nov. 12, the
lowest amount since December 31, 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sitme volumes have declined during the
past weeks, with the seven-day moving average at $31.3 million,
 Francisco Rodriguez , an analyst at Bank of America, wrote in a
Nov. 8 note to clients.  Cutting supply in the Sitme market indicates the government
may devalue the currency by reintroducing a multi-tier exchange
rate system similar to what was in place in 2010, Rodriguez said
today in a telephone interview from Bogota.  “It seems that what the government is working toward is
how it can present a new exchange-rate system that allows it at
the same time to devalue the currency without it explicitly
looking like a devaluation,” Rodriguez said.  Press officials at the central bank and the  Finance
Ministry  in Caracas declined to comment on the country’s
currency policies yesterday.  Bolivar Plunges  The currency has weakened 36 percent this year to 13.65
bolivars per dollar in the unregulated market after trading at
about 8 bolivars per dollar over the past two years, according
to the blog  Lechuga Verde , or Green Lettuce, which cites
traders. Venezuelans turn to the black market when they can’t
get access to the Sitme or the so-called Cadivi system that
sells dollars at 4.3 bolivars for priority imports.  “We have information that the central bank is worried
about the future of the Sitme and the rise of the dollar on the
black market,” Ecoanalitica’s Oliveros said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “For now, the finance ministry and central
bank have not been able to agree on a solution.’  Venezuela has sold no dollar bonds this year after issuing
a record $7.2 billion of the securities last year to meet
foreign-currency demand and finance government spending. State
oil company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  issued $3 billion of
dollar bonds in a private placement with the central bank and
other state-owned lenders in May.  PDVSA Bond  ‘‘Everyone expects PDVSA to be the issuer of a private bond
to the Venezuelan central bank over the next week,’’  Russell Dallen , a bond trader at BBO Financial Services Inc. in Miami,
wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  The Venezuelan government and PDVSA, as the Caracas-based
company is called, have no plans to issue new dollar debt at the
moment, said the official.  The central bank has a sufficient supply of bonds to sell
into the Sitme market at reduced levels through December and can
‘‘reactivate’’ the market after a devaluation, Oliveros said.  ‘‘The stock of bonds the central bank has is not sufficient
to directly supply the Sitme market in the way they had been
doing so,’’ he said.  Until the government agrees on a strategy, there will be
shortages of non-essential goods and a smaller black market that
operates at a higher price, Datanalisis’s Leon said.  ‘Total Control’  ‘‘The government wants total control over who gets foreign
currency in the Venezuelan economy,’’ he said, adding that the
government will need to set a policy before the end of December
because of the supply of bonds available to fund the Sitme.
‘‘When they reach a decision, Sitme will return to assigning
larger amounts of dollars.’’  Chavez said on Sept. 11 that his government had no plans to
devalue the bolivar. The country will likely weaken the official
Cadivi rate 31 percent to 6.2 per dollar, according to the
median estimate of 14 analysts in a Bloomberg survey published
in August.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  