-- Chile Ready to Repeat Measures to Boost Liquidity, Larrain Says
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-11-14T16:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/chile-ready-to-repeat-measures-to-boost-liquidity-larrain-says.html
Chile ’s government stands ready to
join the central bank in providing extra liquidity to the market
as it did in December of last year, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said.  The central bank said Nov. 8 it would allow banks to pawn
peso bonds in return for cash, so-called repo operations, once a
week until Dec. 18. The government is weighing up whether to
repeat last year’s auctions of dollar deposits, Larrain said in
an interview in Santiago today. It’s not clear as yet whether the
measure is necessary, he added.  “It all depends on the market,” said Larrain, 54. “If we
see an episode of drying liquidity, we will be prepared to do the
same as we did last year. So far we haven’t seen that.”  Liquidity often falls at the end of the year in Chile as
companies seek cash to bolster balance sheets, withdrawing
dollars and pesos from the short-term debt funds that lend to the
banks. The spread between 30-day interbank loans and the central
bank’s benchmark rate fell two basis points to 1.03 percentage
point today after the central bank yesterday loaned $177 million
through its new repo window. That spread reached as high as 2.39
percentage points in December last year.  The central bank lent the banks $952 million in pesos in the
last month of 2011, compared with the $49.8 million in U.S.
dollars lent by the  Finance Ministry  over the same period,
according to the budget office’s written response to a Bloomberg
News freedom of information request. The figures indicated that
the surge in bank funding costs last year was more local than
external.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 