-- Chile Keeps 5% Rate as Economy Steers Clear of Global Slump
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-11-14T11:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/chile-keeps-5-rate-as-local-economy-stays-clear-of-global-slump.html
Chile ’s central bank kept its key
interest rate unchanged yesterday for a 10th straight month as
policy makers highlighted the expanding gap between the strength
of the domestic economy and the weakness of the global one.  The bank’s board, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara, held
the benchmark rate at 5 percent, as forecast by all 15 analysts
 surveyed by Bloomberg . Policy makers last changed borrowing costs
in January with a quarter-point reduction that surprised
economists.  Monthly economic growth has exceeded economist estimates six
times this year as local demand remains resilient to the global
slowdown, pushing Chile’s performance past regional peers such as
Brazil and  Colombia . While policy makers are concerned a global
slowdown will eventually hurt gains at home, they may be leaning
toward monetary tightening after emphasizing domestic vigor in a
statement accompanying yesterday’s decision, economist Jorge Selaive said.  The communique “is somewhat more hawkish,” Selaive, chief
economist at Banco de Credito & Inversiones, said by phone from
Santiago yesterday. “This will have implications on asset prices,
which will incorporate at least two increases in the monetary
policy rate” over the next two years.  Chile’s peso rose 0.2 percent to 482.60 per  U.S. dollar  at
8:32 a.m. local time today.  On Hold  One-year  interest-rate swaps , which reflect traders’ views of
average borrowing costs, increased 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 5.02 percent yesterday from the end of last
month. Economists surveyed this week by the central bank forecast
rates would remain on hold for 23 months as inflation stays
anchored about the central bank target of 3 percent.  Traders and investors in a separate central bank survey
published today estimated rates will remain unchanged for the next
two years and that consumer prices will fall 0.1 percent in
November.  Annual inflation has accelerated in the past three months,
reaching 2.9 percent in October, beating the highest estimate made
by analysts in a Bloomberg poll. Policy makers in yesterday
attributed October inflation to one-time factors, adding that the
pace remains below the 3 percent target.  Chile has the slowest inflation among major Latin American
economies. And at 5 percent growth this year, Chile and  Venezuela 
will boast the fastest economic expansion in the region behind
Panama and  Peru , according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
 U.S. economy  will climb 2.1 percent in 2012 and the Euro area will
contract 0.5 percent, according to the poll.  Eurozone Risk  “Internationally, uncertainty persists about the fiscal and
financial situation in the Eurozone, as does the risk of a sharp
fiscal adjustment in the  United States ,” according to the central
bank statement. “Domestically, output and demand indicators have
evolved above projections. The labor market remains tight.”  Retail sales in the world’s top copper miner grew 8.4 percent
in the first nine months of 2012, surpassing economic expansion of
5.4 percent in the period, according to calculations made by
Bloomberg based on government and central bank data.  Unemployment declined to 6.5 percent in the third quarter
from 7.4 percent in the year-ago period, while real wages
increased 3.3 percent in September from last year.  “Consumption, investment, credit and employment are growing
at high rates, as well as salaries, which have moderated a little
bit in recent months,” central bank board member Joaquin Vial
said in an interview last week. “Clearly, it’s all a little bit
higher than what would be considered the optimal trajectory.”  Signs of Slowing  The economy is showing some signs of slowing as a global
deceleration decreases demand for exports. Manufacturing output
dropped 5.6 percent in September from 2011, the steepest decline
since the aftermath of the 8.8-magnitude earthquake that struck
south-central Chile in 2010.  Chile’s trade surplus narrowed by more than $6.4 billion to
$2.9 billion in the first 10 months of 2012 from the year earlier
on a 4 percent decline in exports and 6.4 percent gain in imports,
according to central bank data. The average price of copper, which
accounts for more than half of Chile’s exports, is down 9.4
percent this year from 2011.  The deceleration hasn’t been fast enough to consider monetary
easing, Felipe Jaque, an economist at BBVA Research, said by phone
from Santiago Nov. 12.  “The market has been adjusting its expectations as estimates
for a cut start to disappear,” he said. “If domestic pressures
don’t increase, the central bank could perform some increases
toward the beginning of 2014.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  