-- Choate Hall, WilmerHale, Simpson Thacher: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-11-14T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/choate-hall-wilmerhale-simpson-thacher-business-of-law.html
Choate Hall & Stewart LLP announced
that all of the partners in Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and
Dorr LLP’s private-client practice will join Choate’s wealth-
management group.  Choate expects that associates and other staff will
accompany the four partners, who will move to the new firm in
the beginning of December. The new Choate partners are Jennifer C. Snyder, Nan Giner, Michael L. Fay and Brian W. Monnich.  “We have a long and deep relationship with WilmerHale, and
are thrilled to add this outstanding team of top-notch  wealth
management  professionals,” William Gelnaw and John Nadas, co-
managing partners at Choate, said in a statement. “Bringing
together our two preeminent wealth management practices will
benefit all of our clients, and will enable us to continue to
grow materially this priority practice area at Choate.”  The group will join Choate’s wealth management team,
comprising more than 50 lawyers, investment professionals, tax
preparers, trust and estate administrators, and other client
service staff.  “The transition of our private-client practice makes good
business sense for our team and for Choate,” said Susan Murley,
co-managing partner at WilmerHale. “As a stand-alone practice
at WilmerHale, we are pleased to see our private-client team
joining a  law firm  that has an established, robust and industry-
leading reputation in wealth management. We wish members of our
private client practice well as they make this transition.”  Choate has 175 attorneys in its Boston office.  Law Firms Eating More Costs, Bloomberg Survey Says  It’s getting much tougher for law firms to get paid back by
clients for their legal research costs, a new Bloomberg Law
survey of almost 100 firms has found.  Forty-three percent of firms say they have to absorb more
of their costs today than they did in 2010.  A number of participants noted that an increasing number of
clients do not want to pay for online research, a trend they
claim started with insurance companies.  To see the video, click here.  News  U.K.’s Top Fraud Prosecutor to Aggressively Gather Intelligence  David Green , who took over as the director of the U.K.
Serious Fraud Office in April, told lawmakers that he wants the
agency to be “far more aggressive” with intelligence
gathering.  The SFO should be seeking “all sorts of exotic
intelligence” to use in their investigations by working with
other agencies, Green said yesterday at a hearing of
Parliament’s Justice Committee about changes he’s making at the
agency.  “In the new landscape we simply can’t work in silos, we
have to work together, and it’s happening,” he said, citing
cooperation with the Financial Services Authority, Crown
Prosecution Service and City of London Police on a  Libor probe .  Green brought in new staff and managers when he replaced
 Richard Alderman , who stepped down when his four-year term as
director was complete. Green is also seeking to revamp the type
of cases the SFO handles, saying in an interview at his office
last week that it has focused too heavily on boiler-room and
mortgage-fraud cases that are better handled by the CPS.  Under Alderman, the SFO was criticized for taking on
several high-profile cases, including probes into American
International Group Inc.’s Financial Products unit and  Bernard
Madoff ’s London operations, only to close them later citing a
lack of evidence. Green has shut down probes into the failure of
the Iceland’s Kaupthing hf and the U.K. property investors
Robert and  Vincent Tchenguiz .  The SFO is currently investigating attempts to manipulate
the London interbank offered rate and similar benchmarks; claims
of bribery at a European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. unit in
Britain, Barclays Plc and an Alstom SA unit; and the collapse of
the hedge fund Weavering Capital (U.K.) Ltd.  For more, click here.  Deals  Blackstone, LLOG Agree $1.2 Billion Gulf of Mexico Oil Deal  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP is representing  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , which started a partnership with LLOG Exploration Co.,
a closely held oil company, to invest more than $1.2 billion in
offshore operations in the  Gulf of Mexico . Haynes & Boone LLP
advised LLOG.  Houston corporate partner Andy Calder is leading the
Simpson Thacher team. Other partners on the deal included Gary
Mandel, tax; David Rubinsky, ECEB and Robert Rabalais, credit.  The cash will be used to speed up development of four
deepwater discoveries as well as for new exploration and buying
more assets, according to a statement yesterday. Covington,
Louisiana-based LLOG said it’s one of the largest private
operators in the Gulf, with an exploration success rate of 70
percent.  “With Blackstone’s team, extensive capital resources, oil
and gas expertise and industry resources, we will be able to
take our business activity levels and assets to the next
level,” said Scott Gutterman, chief executive officer of LLOG.  Production from LLOG’s Who Dat discovery, which holds as
much as 300 million barrels of oil equivalent, is excluded from
the partnership. LLOG said it started production from the field
last year.  Blackstone, the New York-based private-equity firm, in
September completed gathering $2.5 billion for its debut energy
fund, Blackstone Energy Partners. Blackstone has more than $205
billion in assets under management, it said in the statement.  Lucasfilm’s Lawyer Says  George Lucas  ’Only Spoke With Disney’  Christopher Kaufman, partner at Latham & Watkins LLP, talks
about his representation of Lucasfilm Ltd. in its $4.05 billion
acquisition by Walt Disney Co.  Kaufman, speaking with Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck,
discusses how George Lucas’s 100 percent stake in Lucasfilm Ltd.
made negotiations “difficult” and “time-consuming.”  To listen to the report, click here.  Moves  Emirati M&A and Corporate Lawyer Joins White & Case  White & Case LLP hired Emirati national Abdulwahid Al
Ulama, a United Arab Emirates-qualified mergers and acquisitions
lawyer, as a partner in  Abu Dhabi .  Al Ulama is the first Emirati partner to join a major
international law firm in Abu Dhabi, White & Case said. He
previously was in a commercial finance role with Mubadala GE
Capital. He is also a former partner of Al Tamimi & Co. and
former group chief legal officer of Dubai World Group. He is a
certified arbitrator with the Dubai International Arbitration
Center and the International Chamber of Commerce.  “As an Emirati national and highly regarded UAE-qualified
lawyer with over 12 years’ experience in both industry and the
legal profession, Abdulwahid significantly bolsters our local
presence, and enhances our ability to deliver UAE law expertise
to both leading UAE-based businesses and our global clients
seeking to do business in the UAE,” Francois Leloup, regional
section head for mergers and acquisitions/corporate in Western
Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa, said in a statement.  Al Ulama’s experience also includes financial regulation,
 capital markets , banking and finance, projects, real estate,
litigation and arbitration.  The White & Case Abu Dhabi office, led by Margaret B. Cole,
has six partners based there. The firm has lawyers in 38 offices
in 26 countries worldwide.  Davis Polk Adds Mergers and Acquisitions Lawyer in London  Mergers and acquisitions and corporate finance lawyer Will
Pearce joins  Davis Polk  & Wardwell LLP as a partner in the
London office. He was previously at Herbert Smith Freehills LLP.  Pearce represents companies and financial advisers in
public and private mergers and acquisitions and restructuring
matters, as well as issuers, selling shareholders and
underwriters on a range of securities transactions.  Earlier this year, Davis Polk hired capital markets lawyer
Simon Witty and tax lawyer Jonathan Cooklin in its English law
practice.  “Will is another tremendous addition to our English law
team in London,” said Thomas J. Reid, Davis Polk’s managing
partner. “His skill and experience with intricate cross-border
takeovers and combinations meshes perfectly with our global M&A
practice.”  Davis Polk’s London office opened in 1972. The firm has
more than 800 lawyers in offices in the U.S., Europe, Sao Paulo
and Asia.  Twitter Hires Google Deputy General Counsel Wong  Google Inc. deputy general counsel  Nicole Wong  joined
Twitter, according to a tweet she posted.  At Google, Wong helped decide what controversial materials
appear on Google and in local search engines, the Wall Street
Journal reported.  Wong will be legal director at Twitter, reporting to
general counsel Alex Macgillivray, the newspaper reported.  Wong was an associate at Perkins Coie LLP before joining
Google.  Litigation  Fund Managers Used Corrupt Chain to Make Big Money, Jury Is Told  Level Global co-founder Anthony Chiasson and Todd Newman, a
former fund manager for Diamondback Capital Management LLC, used
a “corrupt chain” of insiders at public companies to make more
than $70 million for their funds, a prosecutor told a jury at
the start of the men’s trial.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Tarlowe said yesterday in
opening statements in federal court in Manhattan that Chiasson
and Newman were part of a group of portfolio managers, analysts
and technology company employees who were friends and reaped
millions of dollars by trading on illegal stock tips in  Dell
Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)   Four members of the group agreed to plead guilty and will
testify for the government, Tarlowe said.  Chiasson made more than $57 million trading on Dell and
about $10 million on Nvidia, the prosecutor said. Newman made
about $3.8 million from Dell trades and earned about $48,000 on
Nvidia, he said.  “They used a corrupt chain of people to get the
information into the hands of the defendants,” Tarlowe said.
“The defendants chose to break the law. Why? Because they
wanted to make big money for themselves and for their hedge
funds.”  Chiasson and Newman are charged with conspiracy to commit
 securities fraud  and five counts of securities fraud. The latter
crime is punishable by as long as 20 years in prison. Both men
pleaded not guilty.  Stephen Fishbein, a lawyer at Shearman & Sterling LLP, for
Newman, said his client didn’t know the information provided to
him was obtained illegally.  “ Todd Newman  worked hard for his hedge fund,” Fishbein
said. “He did not cheat. He did not steal. He did not try to
get inside information.”  Chiasson’s lawyer,  Reid Weingarten , a partner at Steptoe &
Johnson LLP, told jurors that his client had no idea he was
passed illicit nonpublic information.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 