-- Chronic Lyme Disease Discounted as New Infections Blamed
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-11-15T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/chronic-lyme-disease-a-myth-as-researchers-finger-new-infections.html
People who have recurring symptoms
of  Lyme disease  after taking a full course of antibiotics most
likely have a new infection, according to research that
undercuts the theory that the illness can relapse.  The Lyme Disease bacterium is spread by the tick bite that
appears in the form of a “bull’s-eye rash,” according to the
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. If untreated,
patients may develop fatigue, fever and muscle aches, palsy and
eventually arthritis, nerve and heart disease.  A small number of patients have reported symptoms years
after their initial  treatment , raising concern that an incurable
form of the disease exists, said Robert Nadelman, a researcher
at  New York  Medical College in Valhalla. He analyzed bacteria
from 17 people with consecutive episodes of the rash starting in
1991, and found the infections were caused by genetically
distinct bacteria. There’s less than a one in five million
chance that happened by chance, he said.  “Our data provide compelling evidence that courses of
antibiotics that are recommended by Infectious Disease Society
of America regularly cure early Lyme disease,” said Nadelman, a
professor of medicine in the division of infectious diseases at
New York Medical College in Valhalla, in a telephone interview.
“When people have early Lyme disease again, it’s likely due to
a new infection due to a new tick bite.”  The  National Institutes of Health  and the William and
Sylvia Silberstein Foundation funded the study, which appears in
the Nov. 15  New England Journal of Medicine .  Relapse Controversy  There were 24,364 confirmed  cases  of Lyme disease reported
in the U.S. last year, according to the CDC, including 3,118 in
New York, 3,398 in  New Jersey  and 4,739 in  Pennsylvania , states
with the largest number of cases.  The controversy over relapses versus the risk of repeat
infection has broad implications for treatment and prevention,
the researchers said. Chronic Lyme disease is showing up as a
common diagnosis in people with unexplained pain, mental defects
or fatigue, even if there is no evidence of infection with the
bacteria that causes the disease, wrote Allen Steere, from
 Massachusetts General Hospital  and  Harvard Medical School .  “These patients are said to have persistent infection,
which can be suppressed only with months or years of antibiotic
therapy, and the therapy must be restarted when symptoms
recur,” he wrote in an editorial that accompanied the study.
“The weight of evidence is strongly against persistent
infection as the explanation for persistent symptoms in
antibiotic-treated patients with Lyme disease.”  The findings are “absolutely reassuring,” showing that
people who have been bitten by tick that may harbor Lyme disease
have an excellent chance of a cure, Nadelman said. Because it
takes several days for a tick to transmit the infection, people
who live in areas where the ticks are endemic should check
themselves from head to toe each night, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  