-- Chrysler Said to Talk With Santander to Be Main Lender
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-11-14T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/chrysler-said-to-talk-with-santander-to-be-main-lender.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker
controlled by  Fiat SpA (F) , is in exclusive talks with  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  to make its U.S. unit the automaker’s preferred
financing provider, people familiar with the matter said.  Chrysler entered a 30-day negotiating period with the
lender, which would be the U.S. automaker’s main partner for
financing with customers and dealers, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the negotiations are private.  Sergio Marchionne , the chief executive officer of Chrysler
and Fiat, said at the Paris Motor Show in September that
Santander Holdings USA and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  were
“possible” financing partners for Chrysler. The Auburn Hills,
Michigan-based automaker said in April that it would let its
preferred-lender agreement with  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  expire in
April 2013.  “You need to know that your lender of choice is going to
be available and willing to make the loans necessary to move
product,” Alec Gutierrez, an analyst for researcher Kelley Blue
Book, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “The question
will be, is this lender still going to be willing to carry over
a lot of the aggressive programs that Ally was running?”  The pact with Detroit-based Ally requires Chrysler to allow
Ally to finance a minimum percentage of vehicles sold with
subvented loans, which are those made to consumers at below-
market rates. Automakers pay lenders to make up the difference.  Ally Offers  The expiring accord with Ally doesn’t cover other business
that the lender does with Chrysler dealers, such as wholesale
financing, so-called standard-rate financing for consumers, or
leasing.  Ally has been offering zero-percent financing and
competitive lease deals this year on vehicles such as the
Chrysler 200 midsize sedan, said Gutierrez, who is based in
 Irvine ,  California .  “That midsize segment has become just absolutely flooded
with great offers on brand new and redesigned product,” he said
yesterday. “Some of those lease offers out there are really
pretty killer, and you have to assume that they’re moving quite
a bit of volume in that segment with those offers.”  Laurie Kight, a U.S. spokeswoman for Santander, Spain’s
biggest bank, didn’t respond to messages left by telephone or e-
mail. The company’s U.S. operations are based in  Fort Worth ,
Texas.  Chrysler, the No. 3 U.S. automaker behind  General Motors
Co. (GM)  and Ford Motor Co., generates more than $25 billion in auto
loans annually, people familiar with the matter said in
February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  