-- CIB Defies Moody’s as Egypt Yield Higher Than Spain Boosts Net
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-11-14T14:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/cib-defies-moody-s-as-egypt-yield-higher-than-spain-boosts-net.html
Commercial International Bank  Egypt 
SAE, whose holdings of government debt prompted a rating cut by
Moody’s Investors Service this week, almost doubled third-
quarter profit after buying more of the same notes.  Net income advanced to 610 million Egyptian pounds ($100
million) from 314 million pounds a year earlier, Egypt’s biggest
publicly traded lender known as CIB said late yesterday. The
 median estimate  of five analysts was for a profit of 550 million
pounds, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The government, struggling to finance the highest  budget
deficit  in at least five years, has increased the sales of
local-currency debt to domestic banks after last year’s uprising
prompted foreign investors to dump the securities.  Larger
holdings of sovereign debt helped boost net interest income 45
percent in the first nine months to 2.8 billion pounds, CIB said
yesterday, one day after Moody’s cut its rating to B2. The junk-
rated debt pays a higher yield than  Spain , which is rated five
levels above Egypt’s.  Higher exposure to government debt “is a risk to CIB, but
the investments are in Egyptian pounds so there isn’t that risk
of default,” Sara Boutros, equity analyst at Cairo-based
investment bank Beltone Financial, said by phone. “The worst-
case scenario is that the government will print money.”  CIB added 30 percent to its treasury-bill holdings to 13.9
billion pounds in the year to the end September, according to
its financial statement. Debt instruments available for sale,
including  government bonds , rose 41 percent to 20.6 billion
pounds.  Yields Jump  CIB’s “high degree of exposure to these securities offsets
the bank’s otherwise stronger asset quality, capital
buffers and risk-management compared with” its domestic peers,
Moody’s said Nov. 13.  The average yield on Egypt’s one-year treasury bills has
surged 240 basis points, or 2.4 percentage points, since the
revolt that ousted  Hosni Mubarak  to 12.99 percent today,
according to central bank data on Bloomberg. Spain, at the heart
of the euro-zone debt crisis, pays an average yield of 2.82
percent on similar-maturity debt, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Egypt’s borrowing costs have been tumbling since the June
election of President Mohamed Mursi, who restarted talks with
the  International Monetary Fund  for a $4.8 billion loan. The
government says the loan will help restore investor confidence
and lower the budget gap, which widened to 11 percent of
economic output in the fiscal year that ended in June.  Revenue climbed to 1.45 billion pounds from 923 million
pounds a year earlier, the lender said. The bank’s shares have
more than doubled this year, outperforming the benchmark EGX 30
Index, which has advanced 56 percent.  Ten analysts have a buy rating on the stock, eight
recommend a hold while two say sell, according to  data compiled
by Bloomberg.   To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  