-- Clariant Puts Leather Chemicals Up for Sale to Help Boost Profit
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-11-14T12:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/clariant-puts-leather-chemicals-up-for-sale-to-help-boost-profit.html
Clariant AG (CLN)  added leather chemicals
to a list of units slated for disposal because they no longer
meet standards needed to reach a company profit goal.  Clariant will begin the sale of its leather chemicals and
detergents and intermediates business units in the first quarter
of next year, Kai Rolker a spokesman for the Swiss company, said
today. Clariant had said in March that the leather-chemicals
unit was under review.  “It’s a good business, but it doesn’t match the
requirements we have set ourselves,” Rolker said. The unit,
which had revenue of 265 million Swiss francs ($280.4 million)
last year, does not support Clariant’s plans to achieve a margin
of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization on sales of 17 percent by 2015, he said.  Chief Executive Officer Hariolf Kottmann is expanding his
list of assets for sale amid slowing demand for chemicals in
 Europe  which caused the company to cut a full-year sales target
on Oct. 30. Kottmann has said he will sell some units by the end
of next year to make space for less-cyclical businesses like
catalysts and chemicals for the oil and mining industries.  The sale of leather chemicals is the second wave of a
divestment program. A first round including the sale of paper-,
textile-, and emulsions-chemicals units kicked off earlier this
year. Clariant has no specific plans to carve out more divisions
or for a third wave of disposals, Rolker said.  Clariant shares gained as much as 1 percent and traded 0.2
percent higher at 12:37 a.m. in Zurich.Finanz & Wirtschaft
reported earlier today than Clariant will sell its leather
chemicals business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  