-- Clinton Calls for Pressure on Syria in Announcing Refugee Aid
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-11-14T06:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/clinton-calls-for-increased-pressure-on-syria-s-assad-regime-1-.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
called for more pressure on Syria and announced $30 million in
humanitarian aid to those affected by the 20-month uprising
against President Bashar al-Assad that has killed thousands.  Speaking today after she and Secretary of Defense  Leon Panetta  met with their Australian counterparts in Perth, Clinton
said the ministers agreed the formation of the new Syrian
opposition coalition was “an important step forward” in the
conflict. France yesterday became the first Western country to
formally recognize the rebel alliance in a conflict that has
spawned an exodus of refugees to neighboring countries.  The American aid will “help get much-needed food to hungry
people inside Syria and to refugees who have fled to Turkey,
Jordan, Lebanon, and Iraq,” according to Clinton’s prepared
remarks. Earlier, she called for “increased pressure on the
Assad regime.”  President  Barack Obama  is backing the effort to oust Assad
while realigning American security strategy to focus on the
Asia-Pacific region as China’s military power grows. The U.S. is
also seeking to pressure Iran through economic sanctions as
 Israel  threatens to attack the Persian nation’s nuclear
facilities.  “We agreed on the importance of holding the international
community together to prevent Tehran from obtaining nuclear
weapons,” Clinton said after she and Panetta met with Foreign
Minister Bob Carr and Defense Minister  Stephen Smith  to discuss
security cooperation. She reiterated U.S. support for a maritime
code of conduct to ease tensions in the  East China Sea .  Afghanistan Cooperation  The U.S. is preparing by the end of 2014 to wind down its
military effort in  Afghanistan , where Australian troops also
serve. The two countries must work together to ensure that
Afghanistan “never again becomes a staging ground for
international terrorism,” Clinton said before the meeting.  Australia is seeking to cement relations with its main
military ally, which is deploying as many as 2,500 Marines in
nation’s north. Smith announced in May A$5.4 billion ($5.6
billion) in defense spending cuts over four years as Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  seeks to return the national budget to
surplus in 2013.  “As we face budget constrictions in both of our countries,
we still confront threats in the world,” Panetta said today.
“Our biggest challenge now as we rebalance in the Pacific is to
try to work with allies like Australia to try to help us with
that effort.”  Clinton also called for finalizing the U.S.-led Trans-
Pacific Partnership agreement, saying it will lower barriers,
foster growth and raise labor and environmental standards.  After today’s talks, Clinton will travel to Adelaide to
tour military shipbuilder Techport Australia tomorrow before
heading to  Southeast Asia  on Nov. 16. Some of her trip to the
region will coincide with the itinerary of Obama, who this month
will become the first U.S. head of state to visit Myanmar while
in office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  