-- Cocoa Jumps as Ivory Coast President Dissolves Government
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-11-14T19:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/cocoa-jumps-as-ivory-coast-president-dissolves-government.html
Cocoa futures surged the most in 10
weeks after the president of Ivory Coast, the world’s largest
producer, dissolved the nation’s government.  President Alassane Ouattara dissolved the government after
members of the ruling coalition opposed a new law, said Amadou
Gon Coulibaly, the general secretary of the presidency. Cocoa
climbed to a 32-year high in March 2011 as supplies were
disrupted by a civil war. The conflict left at least 3,000 dead
following ex-leader Laurent Gbagbo’s refusal to cede power to
Ouattara after a November 2010 election.  “Seeing the government dissolved is a surprise to the
market,” Sterling Smith, a futures specialist at Citigroup Inc.
in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “If we don’t see a
quick resolution, we run the risk of seeing cocoa supplies
disrupted.”  Cocoa for March delivery jumped 2.9 percent to settle at
$2,457 a metric ton at 12:04 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York, the biggest advance since Sept. 5. Earlier, the price
reached $2,469, the highest since Nov. 7.  The Parti Democratique de Cote d’Ivoire, or PDCI, and the
Union pour la Démocratie et la Paix en Côte d’Ivoire, or UDPCI,
yesterday rejected a bill proposing that women have the same
rights as men to head a family, Gon Coulibaly said.  Ivory Coast produces about 40 percent of the world’s
supplies, according to the International Cocoa Organization in
 London . The beans represent 20 percent of the country’s gross
domestic product, according to Maplecroft, a risk-analysis
company based in Bath,  England .  “It is the unknown that causes the rise,” Judy Ganes- Chase, the president of J. Ganes Consulting, said in an e-mail
from Chicago. “The ‘what if’ scenarios rather than any actual
problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  