-- Regulators Grilled Over Community Banks’ Basel Burden
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-11-14T21:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/community-banks-basel-iii-burden-to-be-hearing-s-focus.html
U.S. banking regulators will write
capital rules shaped by community-banker concerns that the
proposals are too harsh, agency officials told critical
lawmakers at a hearing  today .  The Senate Banking Committee questioned officials from
agencies seeking to adopt tighter international capital rules
adopted by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision . The
regulators want to make the transition as easy as possible for
community banks, according to the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency,  Federal Reserve  and Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.  “As we work toward finalizing the rule, we will seek to
further tailor the requirements as appropriate for community
banks,” said Michael S. Gibson, director of the Division of
Banking Supervision and Regulation at the Fed.  Regulators received more than 1,500 comment letters
including from community banks that said they shouldn’t be
subject to the same  capital requirements  as larger banks under
the Basel III rules. Regulators and lawmakers at the hearing
said they understand the community bankers’ point of view.  “I am concerned that the proposed risk weights could have
an adverse impact on small banks’ ability and willingness to
offer mortgages, especially in rural areas,” Senate Banking
Committee Chairman  Tim Johnson  said at the hearing.  Deadline Delayed  The regulators announced last week that they won’t hold
banks to a Jan. 1 deadline in the proposals for boosting
reserves against potential losses. The agencies are working “as
expeditiously as possible” on rules proposed in June, meant to
boost capital requirements to guard against a repeat of the 2008
credit crisis.  At the hearing, regulators refused to give a new timeline
on the rule and instead said they need to spend the time to
study the comment letters.  The Financial Stability Board said on Oct. 31 that only
eight of the 27 countries that drafted the Basel III
requirements were ready for the 2013 start date. The measures
are scheduled to phase in and would fully apply from 2019.  The U.S. proposals call for all banks to maintain “loss-
absorbing capital” of at least 7 percent of risk-weighted
assets. They also establish new risk weightings for residential
mortgages, commercial real estate, sovereign debt and
securitizations that require more capital for riskier assets.  Gibson said the regulators are considering changes to the
treatment of available-for-sale securities that critics have
said would increase capital volatility if they are forced to
keep track of unrealized gains and losses.  ‘A Mess’  Before the hearing, Senator  David Vitter , a Republican from
 Louisiana , said the proposal should be thrown out and questioned
the witness selection.  “Basel III is a mess, and if the regulatory agencies were
serious about fixing capital requirements, the heads of the
agencies would be testifying,” Vitter said in a statement
released yesterday. “Instead it appears they’re running from
it.”  Vitter and Senator  Sherrod Brown , a Democrat from  Ohio ,
sent regulators a letter in August saying the Basel III rules
are complex and may not be sufficient to prevent another
financial crisis. They urged regulators to simplify the rules
and focus on loss-absorbing capital buffers.  The smallest banks raised “the most fundamental issues”
in their comments, said John Lyons, the OCC’s senior deputy
comptroller for bank supervision policy. He said the agency will
“carefully consider” assertions that community banks didn’t
cause the crisis and should be exempt from the rules. The
proposals already include “lengthy transition provisions and
delayed effective dates” to help the banks, he said.  ‘Lengthy’ Rules  “The future safety and soundness of community banks will
depend on their having sufficient capital going forward,” Lyons
said. “We recognize that understanding and complying with the
proposed rules could still be difficult for community banks.
However, it is also important to recognize that the proposed
rules are lengthy, in part, because they address banks of all
shapes and sizes.”  Senator Michael Bennet, a Democrat from  Colorado , said
community banks already have high capital and questioned what
problem the rule was trying to solve.  “My worry from talking to folks in Colorado is they really
worry that they will be driven out of business and this is going
to lead to consolidation,” Bennet said of community banks. An
FDIC official responded that regulators take the concerns of
community banks very seriously.  Considering Costs  “We do not want to create a situation where the compliance
costs make them uncompetitive or unable to serve their important
roles in the local communities,” said George French, deputy
director for policy in the FDIC’s risk-management arm.  Camden Fine, president and chief executive officer of the
 Independent Community Bankers of America , requested an exemption
for community banks from the Basel rule.  “ICBA seeks a full exemption for all banks with less than
$50 billion in assets from all new capital rules under Basel III
in order to avoid large-scale industry concentration that would
curtail credit for consumers and business borrowers, especially
in small communities,” Fine wrote to the committee in a letter
dated yesterday.  Targeted Delay  Any delay in the Basel rules for community banks should be
for those institutions and those alone, Dennis Kelleher,
president and CEO of Better Markets, an organization advocating
stricter financial regulation, said in a letter to the committee
yesterday.  Comptroller of the Currency  Thomas Curry  said last month
that the regulators are “thinking broadly about ways to reduce
regulatory burden,” and he said smaller U.S. banks may get
longer transition periods and grandfather clauses to help ease
them into compliance.  “These are proposed rules and we expect to make changes
based on the comments,” French said. He said community banks
contend “proposed risk-weightings for residential mortgages
will force them to curtail or exit residential mortgage lending
because of what they view as the excessively high level of some
of these risk weights.”  Impact Analysis  The regulators’ testimony included analysis of the Basel
rules’ impact on institutions of varying sizes.  “These estimates suggest that for most insured banks, the
proposals would not result in a need to raise new capital,”
French said.  Gibson also said the Basel Committee’s cost-benefit
analysis found that Basel III would “significantly lower” the
probability of a banking crisis for internationally active banks
and have “only a modest negative effect” on gross domestic
product and loss of credit.  In an Oct. 1 letter, Senate Banking Committee ranking
member  Richard Shelby , an Alabama Republican, said it is
“imperative” that U.S. regulators provide Congress and the
public with a cost-benefit analysis of the capital levels. At
the hearing, Shelby said the regulators’ response shows they are
“outsourcing their economic analysis to the Basel Committee and
should start doing their own work.”  Regulators Doubted  “Given the failure of bank regulators to set appropriate
capital levels before the crisis, I cannot help but doubt the
regulators’ ability to set them correctly after the crisis,”
Shelby said at the hearing.  Brown said the rules are so complex they favor the largest
banks, leaving community banks and regulators at a disadvantage.  “It’s a relatively small number of regulators going up
against some really smart well paid people working for these six
mega banks, six huge banks and we need to work to figure out to
make it more simple, to level the playing field and it’s not
now,” Brown said.  Lloyd C. Blankfein, 58, chairman and CEO of  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , said at a conference in  New York  yesterday that the
proposed rules would also penalize larger, more complex banks.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, would
have $728 billion in risk-weighted assets under the proposed
capital rules, a 67 percent jump from what it tallied under
earlier regulations, said Blankfein, who said that now “size
and complexity come with a higher cost.”  That increase for the investment bank is larger than at its
competitors, with  Citigroup Inc. (C)  up 27 percent and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  up 28 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  