-- Container-Rate Plunge Shows Mediterranean Cast Adrift
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-11-14T23:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/container-rate-plunge-shows-mediterranean-cast-adrift.html
Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis has
led to a collapse in the rates  container lines  charge on routes
from  China  to the Mediterranean, creating a two-tier price
structure as they boost fees for destinations further north.  The cost of a container shipment from  Shanghai  to  Spain  or
 Italy  has tumbled 46 percent to $955 in five months, according
to ICAP Plc, with the spread between south- and north-European
rates widening to $436 as of Nov. 2 from $42 a week earlier.  “Fundamentals on the Asia-Med are dire and we’re hearing
demand is very, very low,” said Richard Ward, an analyst at
ICAP, which provides ship broking services. “That’s led to the
decline in rates as carriers look to secure what cargo they
can.”  While the holiday season typically marks a boom in consumer
goods deliveries, households in  Greece , Italy,  Portugal  and
Spain are cutting back on gifts amid rising unemployment and
public-sending reductions. The plunge in south-European rates
may weigh most on  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , CMA CGM SA and other
lines with multiple Mediterranean container services.  “The Mediterranean area has experienced a much sharper
drop than north Europe,” A.P. Moeller-Maersk Chief Executive
Officer Nils Smedegaard Andersen said in a phone interview on
Nov. 9. “Consumers in northern Europe are cautious, while
consumers in the south are in an outright crisis.”  Shares of Copenhagen-based Maersk have  gained  8 percent so
far this year, valuing it at 175.3 billion kronor ($30 billion).  Southern Exposure  Of 10 weekly  Asia-Europe services  operated by Maersk Line,
the world’s top container shipper, five go to the Mediterranean
or  Black Sea . Marseille, France-based CMA CGM, the No. 3, has
four routes to the region, the same number as from  East Asia  to
northwest Europe, while Hamburg-headquartered Hapag-Lloyd AG is
less exposed, with one route from Asia to the Mediterranean and
one to the Black Sea, versus six services to the north.  Container rates from Asia to northern Europe and the
Mediterranean rose 22 percent and 18 percent, respectively, as
of Oct. 26 after companies including Maersk and Hapag-Lloyd
announced fee increases of $500 per box, ICAP figures show.  Subsequent data reveals the price increase stuck only for
northern ports, where charges rose a further 13 percent to
$1,491 per standard container on Nov. 2, while dropping 17
percent for Mediterranean routes. That’s the first time since
July 27 that rates have moved in opposite directions.  Container volumes on Mediterranean sailings from Asia have
slumped to about half those for north-European trips, according
to Danish shipping association Bimco, which accounts for 65
percent of world tonnage.  Earnings Gain  The resilience of north-European markets allowed leading
container lines to raise rates significantly in the second
quarter, boosting margins and earnings in subsequent months.  Maersk Line  recorded  net income  of 2.87 billion kroner in
the third quarter, versus a year-earlier loss of 1.53 billion
kroner, the parent company said Nov. 9. There’s likely to be a
“modest” profit for the full year, it reiterated, while
cutting an estimate for annual growth in global container demand
to 3 percent from the 4 percent predicted in August.  Hapag-Lloyd, Europe’s fourth-largest line, this week said
third-quarter net income rose more than fourfold to 45.6 million
euros ($58 million) as the average freight rate advanced 8
percent to $1,647 per box. Still, prices fell in September as
the usual peak in demand prompted by retailers stocking up for
the holiday period failed to materialize, the company said.  Third-quarter container volumes between  Asia  and Europe
fell 15 percent on so-called “head-haul” legs -- those
sailings on which boxes are fullest -- according to Maersk, and
though  Germany  continues to sustain demand, outperforming euro-
area partners, recent numbers point to growth grinding to a
halt.  ‘Downward Pressure’  German factory orders and industrial output fell more than
economists forecast in September and business confidence is at a
2 1/2 year low. The economy may shrink in the fourth quarter,
according to the Bundesbank, and the European Commission on Nov.
7 halved its 2013 growth forecast to 0.8 percent.  That could combine with a relaxation of capacity controls
at shipping lines and begin to depress rates on container routes
to northern Europe, according to ICAP’s Ward.  “Carriers were more successful in pushing through a
general rate increase for Asia-northwest Europe as they took
corrective measures by temporarily removing surplus capacity,”
he said. “This capacity is now being redeployed and in
conjunction with traditionally lower cargo volumes during the
final few months of the year, it will place downward pressure on
rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  