-- U.S. Credit Swaps Rise to Highest in 3 Months; Eaton Sells Debt
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-11-14T22:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-pare-decline-eaton-planning-debt.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk reached the highest in more than three months before
President  Barack Obama  meets with lawmakers in an effort to
reach a budget accord to avert the so-called fiscal cliff.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 1.8
basis points to a mid-price of 108.5 basis points at 5:49 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the highest close since 109 basis points Aug. 2.  Investors are concerned that policy makers’ inability to
reach an agreement to avoid $607 billion in tax increases and
spending cuts may weaken the economic recovery and impair
companies’ ability to repay debt. Obama called for Congress to
immediately pass an extension of the Bush-era tax cuts for the
first $200,000 of annual income for individuals and $250,000 for
married couples. He said the rates on earnings above those
levels should be allowed to rise when they expire at the end of
the year.  “The market is feeling a bit weaker and is focused much
more in the U.S. on the fiscal cliff,” Dorian Garay, a money
manager for an investment-grade debt fund at ING Investment
Management, said in a telephone interview. “Both  Europe  and the
fiscal cliff are large risks right now.”  Obama met with a dozen corporate executives after the press
conference and sits down with Democratic and Republican
congressional leaders Nov. 16 for opening talks on taxes and
spending.  Fed Purchases  Spanish workers staged a second general strike this year as
unions across Europe prepared the biggest coordinated protests
yet against budget cuts.  A number of Federal Reserve officials said the U.S. central
bank may need to expand its monthly purchases of bonds after the
December expiration of its program of swapping short-term
Treasuries for longer-term debt, according to minutes of their
last meeting released today.  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  MBIA Swaps  Contracts tied to MBIA Insurance Corp. were the most
actively traded U.S. company swaps by gross notional value for
the week ended Nov. 9, according to the  Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp. , which runs a central credit-swaps repository.
Bank of America Corp. yesterday said it is seeking to buy the
majority of a $329 million issue of parent company  MBIA Inc. (MBI) 
bonds to block the company’s efforts to distance itself from the
cash-strapped insurance unit.  The total gross notional value of all single-name contracts
rose 22 percent to $120.8 billion last week, according to the
New York-based DTCC.  Eaton Corp. (ETN) , the equipment maker that is acquiring  Cooper (CBE) 
Industries Plc, sold $4.9 billion of securities in five parts to
help fund its purchase, according to Bloomberg data. The company
agreed in May to buy Cooper, a maker of electric-distribution
equipment, for $11.8 billion.  The average relative yield on investment-grade debt climbed
1 basis point to 1.3 percentage points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Neiman Marcus  Credit swaps protecting the debt of Neiman Marcus Group
Inc. dropped 46.7 basis points to 339.2 basis points as of 3:30
p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The contracts decreased the most
since June 2009, Bloomberg data show.  The company set the interest rate it will pay on a $500
million add-on term loan it’s seeking to refinance debt,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  The debt, due in May 2018, will pay interest at 3.5
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private.  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North America High Yield
Index, a measure of U.S. speculative-grade corporate debt risk,
rose 12 basis points to a mid-price of 563.7 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  