-- Croatian Premier Looks to Fill Void After Ally Resigns
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-11-15T09:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/croatian-deputy-premier-cacic-gets-jail-term-in-hungary.html
Croatian Premier  Zoran Milanovic  has
decided on replacements for his deputy, Economy Minister Radimir Cacic, who quit after he was given a 22-month jail term for
causing a fatal car crash in  Hungary .  Milanovic will appoint Construction Minister Ivan Vrdoljak
to take Cacic’s place as economy minister and Foreign Minister
 Vesna Pusic  as deputy premier, said two government officials who
asked not to be identified because the information is not public
yet. Cacic, 63, resigned yesterday after the sentencing by a
Hungarian court.  Croatia, which is set to become the European Union’s 28th
member in July next year, is struggling to revive its economy
after three years of recession and stagnation. Cacic’s pro-
business agenda and experience was “really critical” to
efforts to jump start the economy through investment, said
analysts including Timothy Ash, London-based chief emerging-
market economist for  Standard Bank (SBK)  Group Ltd.  “This is a significant blow to the ruling coalition as he
was a powerhouse on the reform front and a political
heavyweight,” Ash said in an e-mail yesterday. “ Croatia  faces
huge challenges in addressing deep-seated structural weaknesses
in the economy, raising competitiveness, overcoming vested
interests, and raising the growth potential of the economy.”  Cacic, who was found guilty of speeding and causing an
accident in January 2010 that killed two people, was sentenced
in absentia in a binding, appellate ruling yesterday, court
spokesman Attila Vadocz said by phone from the Hungarian town of
Kaposvar. Cacic, 63, will be eligible for parole after serving
half of his sentence, Vadocz said.  Croatia’s dollar-denominated government bond maturing in
2017 fell 0.32 percent, pushing the yield to 3.895 percent from
3.83 percent.  ‘Sorely Missed’  The court announced its decision as Cacic was flying to
Zagreb from a trade mission to Doha, Qatar. Cacic, who told
reporters yesterday he “deeply” regrets the accident and
“will bear the consequences,” was leading the efforts to
increase the government’s influence in  INA Industrija Nafte (INARA) 
d.d., a Croatian refiner controlled by Hungary’s Mol Nyrt.  “He will be sorely missed in government,” Milanovic told
a news conference in Zagreb yesterday, adding that he will make
some adjustments to his Cabinet because of the resignation by
the end of the week. “We have a good team and we’ll try to keep
it that way.”  Cacic, the leader of the Croatian  People’s Party , a partner
in the 10-month-old ruling coalition, was Milanovic’s closest
ally. He didn’t say when he would start serving the sentence, or
if he’d do it in Croatia or in Hungary.  The government is trying to trim public spending as it
readies for EU entry. The government forecasts the economy will
stagnate this year while the European Commission and the
 International Monetary Fund  are less optimistic.  Economic Outlook  Gross domestic product will shrink 1.5 percent in 2012 as
external conditions and subdued domestic demand slow the
recovery from a recession, the Washington-based lender said Nov.
13 following a visit to the Adriatic Sea nation. The estimate
was revised from a February forecast for a 1 percent
contraction. GDP next year will expand 0.75 percent, it said.  The commission, the EU’s executive arm in Brussels, said on
Nov. 7 the economy will contract 1.9 percent this year.  “This is a huge blow to the Croatian government and the
economy,” Jelena Lovric, an analyst at Europa Press Holding,
Croatia’s biggest newspaper publisher, said by phone from
Zagreb. Cacic “has started investment projects crucial for the
country’s recovery, and at the moment I don’t see a person who
could replace him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  