-- Dallas Soccer Club Executive Arrested for Assault on Wife
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-11-15T15:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/dallas-soccer-club-executive-arrested-for-assault-on-wife.html
The head of Major League Soccer’s  FC
Dallas  franchise was charged with assaulting his wife in a
midtown Manhattan hotel during the weekend.  Hal Douglas Quinn, 50, was arrested at about 2:45 p.m. on
Nov. 10 at the Alex Hotel on East 45th Street after his 46-year-
old wife, Elizabeth, told police that he struck her and tried to
choke her after the couple got into an argument that escalated,
said  Paul Browne , a spokesman for the  New York City Police
Department .  Quinn’s wife told police her husband struck her in the face
with a closed fist, causing swelling and bruising on the left
side, and tried to choke her, Browne said in a phone interview.
She was treated by emergency medical services at the scene and
taken to New York Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center,
Browne said.  Quinn was charged with one count of third-degree assault, a
misdemeanor, and one count of second-degree strangulation, a
felony, according to a copy of a criminal complaint. He was
arraigned two days ago and released on $20,000 bail pending a
court appearance scheduled for today, according to online
records. The felony count carries a prison term of as long as
seven years, while the misdemeanor charge has a one-year
maximum.  Quinn, the president and chief executive officer of FC
Dallas, lives in Dallas and was in  New York  visiting friends,
said his attorney, Alan Futerfas.  ‘Another Side’  “In these cases, which are usually ‘He said, she said,’
there is often another side to the story and there certainly is
one here,” Futerfas said in an e-mailed statement. “To protect
the privacy of both Mr. Quinn and his wife, we will not go into
the events of that day or discuss important and private
circumstances relevant to the allegations. We look forward to
meeting with the New York District Attorney’s Office so that
they can be fully informed of all the facts and circumstances.”  Quinn is taking an indefinite leave of absence from the
club to attend to personal matters, and Hunt Sports Group Vice
President Dan Hunt will take over FC  Dallas  in the interim, the
club said in a  statement  posted on its website.  “We are aware of the report regarding Doug Quinn,” John Wagner, president of Hunt Sports Group, said in the statement.
“We are in the process of gathering additional information and
will have no further comment at this time.”  Not Identified  The victim, who wasn’t identified in the complaint, told
police that Quinn “repeatedly punched her in the face and body,
causing her to suffer substantial pain, bruising and swelling to
her face, arms and legs, and causing her eye to become swollen
shut,” according to the complaint.  She also told officers that Quinn “placed his hands around
her neck and applied pressure and placed a pillow over her head
and applied pressure, making it difficult for the victim to
breathe and causing her to lose consciousness,” according to
the complaint.  Elizabeth Quinn told the New York Post that “things went
wrong” after the couple had a “lovely night” celebrating Doug
Quinn’s 50th birthday the previous night and that the pair, who
have two small children, plan to stay together.  Quinn was named president and chief executive officer of FC
Dallas in June 2010 after six years as president of Major League
Soccer affiliate Soccer United Marketing, according to a
 statement  posted on the club’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  