-- Danish Bank Watchdog Burned Once Hunts Hidden Credit Risk
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-11-14T04:51:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/danish-bank-watchdog-burned-once-hunts-hidden-credit-risk.html
Denmark’s financial regulator is
warning the country’s banks that an understatement of lending
risks won’t be tolerated as it embarks on a hunt to catch what
it’s dubbed “backdoor” capital dilution.  The Financial Supervisory Authority will review internal
rating models that determine how much capital a lender sets
aside to ensure banks don’t find a way around stricter
standards. While banks may fulfill  capital requirements  on
paper, recent failures suggest risk weights don’t always reflect
reality, leaving buffers too small to absorb losses.  “Politicians and regulators have said that we have to
increase  capital ratios , and they will go up by quite an
amount,” Ulrik Noedgaard, director general of the FSA, said in
an interview. “But if that is being diluted by the backdoor by
firms aggressively recalculating their models or rolling out new
models for new areas, then clearly the whole purpose hasn’t been
served.”  When Denmark’s housing bubble burst more than four years
ago, it revealed widespread capital shortfalls that have since
led to the demise of more than a dozen regional lenders. Toender
Bank A/S, the most recent insolvency, followed a reported three-
fold increase in profit in the first half and a solvency ratio -
- a measure of financial strength -- of 17.3 percent at the end
of June. Yet an inspection last month by the FSA revealed bad
loans almost 10 times as big as those reported by the bank,
wiping out its equity.  ‘Our Worry’  Toender’s collapse “underlines the continued asset and
risk management challenges that Danish banks face, even when
reportedly profitable,” Oscar Heemskerk, senior credit officer
at Moody’s Investors Service, said in a Nov. 8 note. The lender,
based near the German border in southwestern  Denmark , had
reported profits since at least 2008.  “What’s really our worry is the potential dilution” of
regulatory standards, Noedgaard said. “Our ambition here is to
make sure to avoid this dilution, and therefore we need to spend
more time understanding and making sure that these risk weights
do reflect the actual risks of the portfolios.”  Banks operating in Denmark have lashed out at the FSA,
arguing its insistence on more rigorous standards in the middle
of a crisis is exacerbating the nation’s economic decline as
lenders compensate by raising fees and withholding credit.  ‘Extreme, Unique’  Tougher writedown rules imposed by the Danish FSA in April
are “extreme” and “unique” in their severity,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) 
Chief Executive Officer  Christian Clausen  said during a
conference call last month. A doubling in impairments last
quarter was partly caused by the stricter rules, Clausen said.  “It’s good that banks set aside reserves, but not good
when you get to the point where you have an effect on the real
economy,” Anders Jensen, head of Nordea’s Danish banking unit,
said in an interview last month. “We’re getting close to that
point.”  An  International Monetary Fund  working paper, published in
March, called for closer scrutiny of how banks calculate their
credit risks, and noted investor “confidence in reported risk-
weighted assets is ebbing.”  Denmark’s housing market, which has slumped about 25
percent since peaking in 2007, still has further to fall, the
government-backed Economic Council said Nov. 1. A similar
assessment comes from the IMF’s Thomas Dorsey, mission chief for
Denmark, who said Nov. 5 that the nation’s housing market may
not yet have bottomed out, adding to the risk of a recession.  No Discussion  Banks have pleaded with the FSA not to publish solvency
levels, arguing that the practice of advertising which lenders
are weakest makes it more difficult to raise capital. The FSA
has no intention of accommodating the industry on that score,
Noedgaard said.  “It’s not up for discussion,” he said. “This
transparency has served us quite well as a disciplinary force,
and we aim to keep it that way.”  Denmark’s twin banking and housing crises have depressed
consumer demand, pushing the economy to the brink of its second
recession in less than year. The decline risks spurring a
vicious circle as banks retrench and households spend less.
Gross domestic product contracted 0.4 percent in the second
quarter and probably shrank again in the three months through
September, the Confederation of Danish Industry estimates.  Stress Test  Three regional banks failed the central bank’s latest
stress test, published Oct. 25. A fourth bank would be close to
breaching capital rules, while the nation’s four biggest
lenders, including Danske Bank, all passed.  With its dual focus on asset quality and solvency ratios,
the FSA has put in place the main pillars it needs to do its
job, Noedgaard said. The regulator, which typically gives a bank
that fails an inspection about 48 hours to find extra capital,
is now seeking parliamentary approval to give lenders more time
to meet the tougher solvency requirements.  “We’ll do a more patient approach so that you’re given,
say, three months to come up with your capital,” Noedgaard
said. “We are so far into the crisis that all the obvious risks
have, to a certain extent, been addressed, so we would say the
potential danger of shutting down something that could actually
work its way through is increasing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  