-- Diamond Libor Taint Drives Colby Students Seeking Ouster
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-11-14T16:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/diamond-libor-taint-drives-colby-students-seeking-ouster.html
Robert Diamond , the former  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  chief, gave $6 million to finance a Colby College building
that has become a focal point for student dissent over his role
at the 199-year-old school in Waterville,  Maine .  Diamond, class of ’73, was forced out at Barclays after the
London-based bank admitted to manipulating a key lending rate
affecting $300 trillion in finance products worldwide. Since
Colby trustees backed him as chairman in August, a group of
students and local activists has rallied outside the Diamond
Building to call for his removal.  “It’s not just what  Bob Diamond  stands for,” said Gordon
Fischer, a Colby senior from Camden, Maine, who has helped set
up protests, including one that attracted more than 30 people on
Nov. 11. “It’s how the decision was made by the board to
strongly affirm their support for him.”  The market crisis that led to the longest recession since
World War II highlighted a cozy relationship between academia
and  Wall Street . College presidents such as  Brown University ’s
 Ruth Simmons  served as paid bank directors while academics
failed to reveal industry support for research backing
deregulation. As campus protests focused on financiers, leaders
including Harvard University President Drew Faust urged
graduates to resist the lure of banking and investment jobs.  Rare Move  Yet executives who’ve been tarnished by scandal are rarely
forced to cut ties with schools and nonprofit organizations
they’ve supported, said Stanley Katz, a professor of public and
international affairs at  Princeton University . Usually a trustee
caught up in such situations simply isn’t re-elected, Katz said.  “There’s a big gap between that and forcing a person off
the board,” Katz said. “What you’re relying on is the common
sense of the guy to throw himself overboard in the best interest
of the organization. At some point you’re doing more harm than
good.”  Richard Fuld, the former head of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in New York, is an example. He quit as a trustee of
Vermont’s Middlebury College after Lehman went bankrupt in
September 2008, upending credit markets worldwide.  Rigging Libor  Under Diamond, 61, Barclays employees tried to rig the
 London  interbank offered rate, or Libor, a global benchmark for
lenders, credit providers and an array of financial agreements.
The U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, Barclays paid a fine
of 290 million pounds ($460 million) for the attempted
manipulation, which began in 2005. Diamond joined the bank in
1996 and rose to CEO after running the investment banking unit
for about 13 years.  The ex-banker, who hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing,
didn’t respond to e-mailed messages seeking comment on his
status at Colby.  “If you force a guy like Bob off, what happens to the next
person who does something that offends the students?” Katz
said. “Until it comes to an indictment, people aren’t going to
ask him to step down.”  As he rose from trader to Barclays CEO, Diamond helped make
the bank the world’s second-biggest securities underwriter last
year. Yet  Adair Turner , chief of the U.K. Financial Services
Authority, in July faulted him for fostering a “cultural
tendency to be always pushing the limit” of the rules.  Ugly Episode  “Diamond did stuff during the crisis to rescue the bank,”
said  Christopher Wheeler , a Mediobanca SpA analyst in London.
“Unfortunately, he is tainted, because Libor is one of the
ugliest things I’ve seen in 40 years in and around the
industry.”  To set Libor, traders at certain banks are surveyed about
their cost of lending to other banks and financial institutions
each business day, with the results used to set the rate.
Participants who conspired to manipulate the calculation through
their responses sought to improve trading profits and to make
their firms look financially healthier. The manipulation remains
under investigation, including U.K. and U.S. criminal probes.  Barclays was the first to admit its role in the Libor
scandal in June and Diamond left days later. By then he was
already a poster boy for banker bashing in London.  U.K. Business Secretary  Peter Mandelson  in 2010 labeled him
the “unacceptable face of banking” because of his outsized
pay. Last year, Diamond told Parliament that the time for
“remorse and apology” from bankers regarding the financial
crisis needed to end so that they could focus on helping the
economic recovery.  Substandard Testimony  The banker set off a furor after he resigned in July by
telling a parliamentary panel that only a few traders were
responsible for the rate rigging and that regulators were
content with leadership at Barclays. A Treasury Committee report
to lawmakers in August said he gave “unforthcoming and highly
selective” evidence about the role of top managers and that his
candor and frankness “fell well short of the standard that
Parliament expects.”  Diamond defended his answers as truthful and candid in a
statement issued following the report.  “He is totally unfit to be involved with any college,”
 John Mann , a Labor Party member of Parliament on the Treasury
Committee, said by e-mail about the Colby protests. “The man
was roundly condemned by our committee for his answers. We had
the impression he was dishonest with us.”  Baptist Roots  Started as a Baptist seminary on the banks of the  Kennebec
River , a major fur-trading route in colonial days and a channel
for logs sent to mills in Waterville, Colby is readying a
bicentennial celebration next year. It has evolved into a
selective liberal-arts school located about 180 miles (290
kilometers) north of  Boston .  Colby, which costs about $55,700 a year to attend, admitted
about one in four applicants this year and has 1,815 students
from 46 U.S. states and 76 countries, according to its website.
Besides Diamond, graduates include historian Doris Kearns Goodwin and Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston President  Eric Rosengren .  A second generation Irish-American who was raised in the
Boston suburb of Concord, Diamond has been a Colby trustee since
1993 and chairman since 2009. He has committed to giving more
than $11 million to the school during the past 20 years. The $6
million for the Diamond Building, which houses social sciences
departments, including economics, was among the largest
donations ever received by the college when it arrived in 2003.  Helping Hand  Diamond also helped Colby students get jobs on Wall Street
as Barclays recruited from the campus, said Peyton McElyea, a
2005 graduate who worked for the firm for three years out of
college.  “People don’t realize how wonderful Bob has been,” said
McElyea, who left Barclays to get a masters of business
administration at  Columbia University  and now works for  EVOQ
Properties Inc. (EVOQ) , a private-equity firm in Los Angleles. “He
started dozens of meaningful banking careers for students who
otherwise might not have landed the same opportunities.”  Colby’s trustees met in August to hear out Diamond on his
departure from Barclays. After he finished and left the room,
the board conferred on the matter for two hours before it
“strongly affirmed its support” of him as chairman, according
to a statement Sally Baker, a school spokeswoman, sent to
students and faculty.  No Findings  In his presentation, the ex-banker showed “official
reports reflecting that an intensive, multiyear investigation of
Barclays by several regulatory agencies resulted in no findings
of impropriety against Mr. Diamond personally,” according to
the statement. It said Diamond asked for the board meeting.  The Fed’s Rosengren, also a Colby trustee, said by e-mail
that he didn’t attend the meeting and has recused himself from
any discussions about Diamond.  The first protest against Diamond’s continuing role took
place July 14, when about 15 activists from the  Occupy Wall
Street  movement in Maine gathered in front of the Diamond
Building. The activists returned on Sept. 12, joined by
students, and again on Oct. 20, when more than 40 protesters
circulated a petition calling for his ouster on a day when
trustees gathered on the campus.  Strong Support  “The board is still strong in their support,” said
Michael Kiser, a Colby spokesman. Given the relatively small
number of students involved, “it’s not really accurate to call
it a student protest,” he said.  “They’re welcome to their opinions,” Kiser said. “We
understand there’s a difference of opinion and we’re respectful
of that.”  Fischer and another student protester, Shelby O’Neill, were
asked to meet with two trustees on Oct. 20, after which a
dispute arose over whether the college had agreed on a campus-
wide forum about Diamond’s future role. The disagreement shows
that Colby’s leaders don’t want to confront questions about
Diamond and has added “fuel to the fire,” Fischer said.  “He’s a very generous guy, but where did that money come
from?” said Gary Lawless, a poet and a 1973 Colby graduate who
runs a bookstore in Brunswick, Maine, near the mouth of the
Kennebec. “The college is saying that if you don’t get
indicted, it’s OK.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 