-- Dickens Musical ‘Edwin Drood’ Gets Fine Revival: Review
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-11-14T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/dickens-musical-edwin-drood-gets-fine-revival-review.html
Cast with a dream team of  New York 
theater talent, the  Roundabout  presents an inspired revival of
Rupert Holmes’s interactive musical, “ The Mystery of Edwin
Drood .”  The audience gets to select the mysterious killer.  Charles Dickens , now celebrating his bicentennial, died
before finishing the novel that inspired the show.  Public Theater  founder Joe Papp first presented the show in
Central Park, in 1985, and it won five Tony Awards on its first
trip to Broadway. Holmes wrote the book, the winning music-hall
ditties and even the orchestrations. His knack for wordplay is
evident in the propulsive opening number, “There You Are,”
sung by the company:  “So lightning quick let’s all kick up a fuss!/We can but
pray your trust is blind in us/So drink your fill and just
unwind in us!/A warmly wicked frame of mind in us, you’ll find
in us.”  It’s set in 1895 at  London ’s Music Hall Royale, where a
second-rate troupe is performing “The Mystery of Edwin Drood.”
The preening actors slip in and out of character, which sustains
a jokey show-within-a-show feel (but undermines any hope of
dramatic tension).  Luminous Set  Scott Ellis directs this version with finesse, aided by set
designer Anna Louizos’s luminous hand-painted backdrops. Paul
Gemignani conducts.  Will Chase (from television’s “Smash”), with pencil
moustache, sideburns and shiny hair, plays the opium-smoking
John Jasper, the evil choirmaster of Cloisterham Cathedral.
Soaring soprano  Betsy Wolfe  (“Everyday Rapture”) plays the
ingenue Rosa Bud to the hilt.  She’s engaged to Drood, a relationship that suffers from
“unavoidable flatness,” perhaps because Drood’s played by
London’s leading male impersonator ( Stephanie J. Block ).  Employing a cake of make-up and ever-arching eyebrows,  Andy
Karl  is a nosey, hot-tempered refugee from Ceylon. Jessie
Mueller, unrecognizable to those who admired her as Cinderella
in  Central Park ’s “Into the Woods,” is his sister. Also in
mix: Gregg Edelman and Peter Benson.  Notably, and maybe foremost, is 79-year-old Chita Rivera, a
crowd favorite despite -- or perhaps because of -- her wavering
English accent.  Dickens Dies  At the preview I attended, the audience had Rivera’s
character pair off with Master Nick Cricker, played by loose-
limbed 14-year-old Nicholas Barasch.  As for the central mystery, the narrator (Jim Norton)
announces Dickens’ death midway through a second-act anthem and
requests help in resolving Drood’s disappearance. The principal
characters take the stage holding numerals, and secondary actors
flood the aisles to canvas the audience.  At my preview, I and 226 others indicted Rosa Bud. (The
vote tally is posted in the lobby after the show.) That prompted
her to sing “Murderer’s Confession -- Rosa,” incorporating
motifs from earlier songs.  It’s inordinately fun to vote in a low-stakes election for
a change.  At 254 W. 54th St. Information: +1-212-719-1300;
 http://www.roundabouttheatre.org .
Rating: ****  (Philip Boroff is a writer for Muse, the arts and leisure
 section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  books .  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 