-- The Great Campaign Polling Conspiracy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-11-14T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/the-great-campaign-polling-conspiracy.html
It’s a small matter, I know,
compared with the historic issues now obsessing the
commentariat, such as the fiscal cliff and how many mistresses
and admirers former Army General David Petraeus could keep in
the air simultaneously.  But before we say goodbye to the Campaign 2012, I would
just like to point out that the entire drama of a close
election, as played out in the news media on Election Day and
evening, is basically fake. Like broadcasters (including a young
 Ronald Reagan ) presenting baseball games in the  early days of
radio , the television networks know who’s going to win the game
and more or less how it’s going to play out, inning-by-inning.  They know this primarily because of research conducted by
the  National Election Exit Poll  on Election Day. And yet, in a
perverse exercise of high-mindedness, the major news
organizations have all agreed not to report the results of exit
polls until after the polls have closed in a particular state.  It has evolved into a semireligious ritual. At 11 a.m. on
Election Day, representatives of ABC, CBS,  CNN , Fox, NBC and the
 Associated Press   entered a  “quarantine room” with no telephones
or Internet access. There, they sat and analyzed the exit polls
until 5 p.m., when they released what they had to their
employers, who got the data directly for the rest of the
evening.  No Predictions  Exit-poll data is supposed to be used for demographic
insights only -- not to predict the result. You can say,
“Republicans are doing well tonight among upper-middle-class
white men aged 35 to 45, wearing a red sweater vest and
answering to the name of ’Champ.’” But you can’t say, “Chances
are better than even that Obama’s got it in the bag.”  You can learn a lot from tiny samplings, comparing them
with past results. By 6 on election night, CNN undoubtedly knew
that President  Barack Obama  was going to win re-election. And
they pretty much knew the Electoral College count. Or at least
they knew it reliably enough to want to deny this information to
their viewers.  Thus there was this  stilted dialogue , airing sometime
between 6 and 7 p.m. on CNN, between John King and Wolf Blitzer
about Vigo County,  Indiana :  “One little ad-lib here, if I can,” said King. “We’re
starting to get results in  Kentucky  and in Indiana. Tiny
results, 2 percent of the vote. I want to show you a little
place in Indiana. Vigo County, 1.7 percent of the population.
... Only twice -- only twice since 1888 has Vigo County been
wrong in picking a president. Why? Good question. But since the
1950s, this county has been right. It’s filling in blue at the
moment. Look at that. That’s only 17 percent of the vote. We’ll
see how it goes tonight, but you watch it blue now. If it’s blue
at the end of the night, we’ll see if Vigo County’s streak
continues.”  King seemed to be saying that if Vigo County stayed blue
(that is, voted Democratic), it would continue its streak of
picking the winner. That would seem to imply that Democrats were
going to carry the day. King arguably saved himself at the end
with a “we’ll see how it goes tonight,” but he sure sounded like
someone assuming a Democratic victory at a time when he and
everyone else were telling viewers that the race was too close
to call. (For those of you scoring at home: Vigo County went for
Obama  by 339 votes .)  Blitzer then said thoughtfully: “Could be a bellwether, as
they say; could be an indication of what’s going on. We’re going
to watch all these states, all these counties, all these polling
precincts very closely.” Then he tossed to  Anderson Cooper , who
added, “Who knew?”  The answer is that all three of them knew, or someone in
the studio with them knew. But they were forbidden to say. When
I worked at CNN, I was even forbidden to say that I was
forbidden to say.  No Reporting  This is not merely an American insanity. In some European
countries, reporting the results of exit polls (or sometimes of
polls taken close to the election) is actually a criminal
offense. The reason is that reporting the result while the polls
are still open somehow devalues the votes of people who haven’t
yet voted. This might discourage turnout, and even change the
result.  Is this a valid concern? No. Now children, listen closely:
Your vote is just as valuable -- or, if you prefer, just as
worthless -- no matter when you exercise your franchise. Get
over it. No national election (not even the 2000 presidential
election) is ever decided by one vote. If it ever were, every
voter at all times of day would be equally implicated. Exit
polls can’t predict the outcome of a contest that close anyway.  If it bothers you that the result has been decided before
you cast your vote, that unfortunately will still be true
whether the exit polls -- and the conclusions experts draw from
them -- are made public or not. Yes, the polls and experts can
get it wrong. But the concern here is that they usually get it
right. How can it devalue your vote to give you information you
wouldn’t otherwise have? What unfair advantage does an early-
morning voter (or someone who voted weeks ago, absentee) get
from his or her lack of information?  Yes, voting is a good thing and should be encouraged. But
people shouldn’t be tricked into voting, which is what this
artificial suppression of information amounts to. And yes, it’s
possible that some people -- rationally or otherwise -- will
decide not to vote if the winner has already been announced. But
there is no reason to think that one candidate’s supporters are
more likely than another’s to drop out, so that this could
change the result.  It’s easy to see why the TV networks don’t mind putting on
a play if the suspense keeps people watching past 6:30 p.m.
Especially when they get civic brownie points for doing so. And
why is this so important? Maybe it’s not so very important -- a
writer needs some hobbyhorses, and this is  one of mine . It
amazes me that, with the encouragement of the government, not to
mention an endless string of foundations and commissions and
pompous individuals, some of the biggest players in the media
business conspire to present a view of the world that they know
to be false.  It’s as if the government staged the whole walk-on-the-Moon
thing in a warehouse somewhere, or as if Obama was born in
 Kenya . Except this one is for real.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on a  tax compromise both parties
can live with  and on  how to fund oversight of nonprofit groups ;
 Caroline Baum  on the  CEO group that wants to fix the debt ;  Ezra
Klein  on why  tax reform won’t live up to its billing ; Jonathan
Mahler in defense of  John Calipari and the one-season collegiate
basketball career ; Tim Weiner on echoes  of dark FBI history in
the David Petraeus scandal .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net  or @michaelkinsley on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 