-- Tebow Bashing by Unidentified Teammates Is Cowardly, Ryan Says
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-14T19:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/tebow-bashing-by-unnamed-jets-teammates-is-cowardly-ryan-says.html
New York  Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said
it’s “cowardly” that unidentified teammates were quoted in a
 New York Daily News  story as saying backup quarterback  Tim Tebow 
is little more than a gimmick and hasn’t improved.  One unidentified defensive player for the Jets was quoted
as describing Tebow’s play as “terrible.”  “I absolutely addressed it because I think it’s a cowardly
thing,” Ryan said of the report at a news conference today.
“If you’re not going to put your name to it, that’s about as
cowardly thing as there is.”  The Jets have lost three straight games to drop their
record to 3-6 and the offense failed to score in a 28-7 loss in
 Seattle  last week.  Starter  Mark Sanchez  has shouldered the bulk of the
criticism for the team’s struggles. He ranks last among the
 National Football League ’s starting quarterbacks in completion
percentage (52 percent) and has thrown an NFL-high four
interceptions when the Jets are inside an opponent’s 20-yard
line.  Ryan said Sanchez will remain the starter, with Tebow as
the backup.  “We never brought him in to be the starting quarterback,”
Ryan said of Tebow. “We already have a starting quarterback in
Mark Sanchez. I thought I was clear on that from the day we
brought Tim in here.”  Sanchez, 26, hasn’t completed more than 57 percent of his
passes in any of his four NFL seasons and his quarterback rating
has never been higher than 23rd in the league.  Limited Time  Tebow joined the Jets in an offseason trade with the  Denver
Broncos  and has seen limited time at quarterback, completing 5-
of-6 pass attempts for 40 yards while rushing for 92 yards on 27
carries. After a week in which four NFL starting quarterbacks
were lost to injury, Ryan said he has confidence that Tebow
could step in if Sanchez were to miss any time.  “Here’s a guy who took a team to the playoffs when he was
in that kind of role,” Ryan said, while disputing the comments
by players that Tebow hasn’t shown improvement. “Every single
day he works about as hard as anybody I’ve seen.”  Jets offensive lineman Matt Slauson was quoted in the Daily
News article as saying that Sanchez is the team’s best option at
quarterback.  “It’s not even close,” Slauson said, according to the
newspaper. “All the other quarterbacks know it. I have all the
confidence in Mark. We don’t really have a choice.”  Ryan said Slauson’s comment was from several weeks ago and
that he doesn’t have a problem with players voicing their
opinion, as long as they take accountability.  Supports Slauson  “We’re not going to say, ‘Here, this is what we’re going
to say to the media,’” Ryan said. “We’re not always going to
be lined up. I have no problem with Matt Slauson because he put
his name on it. I don’t agree with everything Matt said. I agree
with the fact that we have a starting quarterback.”  Former Jets quarterback  Joe Namath , who led the
organization to its only Super Bowl title after the 1968 season,
said two days ago that Sanchez isn’t fully to blame because he
doesn’t have enough talent around him.  “You’ve got to have help from your friends and sporadic
help isn’t the answer,” Namath said on ESPN radio in New York.
“You’ve got to have consistency. They haven’t been able to
establish consistency up front, in the backfield, wide
receivers, tight ends -- they haven’t done it.”  The Jets this week are 3-point underdogs in  St. Louis 
against a Rams team that’s 3-5-1 and in last place in the
 National Football Conference ’s West Division.  Chemistry Test  The Jets lost their final three games last season to miss
the playoffs with an 8-8 record and Ryan said at the time that a
lack of chemistry was a factor. The team’s slump was capped by
the benching of captain  Santonio Holmes  following a verbal
altercation with teammates in a season-ending loss in Miami.  Ryan said he doesn’t think the team has similar problems
with locker room cohesiveness this year and isn’t concerned with
the perception of finger-pointing among players.  “I feel extremely confident that this football team is
coming closer together than maybe is what is being thought of as
pulling apart,” Ryan said. “I definitely don’t see that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  