-- ECB’s Asmussen Says Risks in Bond-Purchase Plan Are Justified
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-11-14T15:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/ecb-s-asmussen-says-risks-in-bond-purchase-plan-are-justified.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen said the risks attached to the
bank’s bond-purchase plan are justified because doing nothing
would be worse.  “It is correct that such interventions pose risks for the
Eurosystem, but such risks have to be weighed against the risk
of doing nothing,” Asmussen said in a speech in Mainz,  Germany ,
today. “If a house is on fire, the fire brigade will step in
even if that means the furniture getting wet.”  ECB President Mario Draghi and other officials are seeking
to win support in Germany for so-called Outright Monetary
Transactions, which are opposed by the Bundesbank as well as
some German politicians as newspapers. They argue that the
proposal is tantamount to printing money to finance governments,
which is prohibited by the ECB’s statutes and exposes the ECB
balance sheet to too much risk.  Asmussen said the central bank will do its upmost “to
minimize those risks” and that the conditionality attached to
the program fulfills that function.  Under the OMT plan, the ECB will only buy a nation’s bonds
on the secondary market if the government requests aid from
 Europe ’s rescue fund and signs a Memorandum of Understanding to
meet certain conditions. Even then, there is no guarantee the
ECB would intervene.  The announcement of the plan in August has helped to calm
financial markets and reduce borrowing costs in Spain and  Italy 
before it has even been activated. Still, the Bundesbank said
today that financial stability risks in Europe’s largest economy
haven’t receded.  Asmussen, a former deputy German finance minister, said the
conditions attached to the bond-purchase program mean a country
receiving assistance won’t weaken its consolidation and reform
efforts.  “If a country doesn’t stick to the conditions, we will not
buy,” he said, adding that “the other actors must also do
their respective homework” to stem the crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in Brussels at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  