-- Medtronic, CBOE, Lindt, Grey Sail: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-11-14T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/medtronic-cboe-lindt-grey-sail-intellectual-property.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  lost its bid to
overturn a $74 million jury verdict won by  Edwards Lifesciences
Corp. (ED)  and may face a court order halting production of some of
its CoreValve heart valves.  Medtronic CoreValve infringed Edwards’s valid patent
5,411,552, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
said in an opinion posted on the court’s website yesterday. The
court said Edwards has the right to ask the trial judge to
consider an injunction against U.S. manufacturing or sale of
infringing products.  “While Medtronic respects the court’s ruling, we
respectfully disagree with this conclusion and we are evaluating
next steps,” the Minneapolis-based company said in a statement.  Edwards sued CoreValve, then a stand-alone company, in 2008
over an invention for valve replacements that are threaded into
the body via catheters, without open-heart surgery. The patent
was issued in 1995, and Edwards said it is seeking an extension
of the life of the patent to 2017.  “We believe this is a decisive milestone toward final
resolution of this matter, given that we have a clear jury
verdict that has been affirmed by both the district court and
now the U.S. court of appeals,” Edwards General Counsel Aimee
S. Weisner said in a statement.  The companies’ devices, used to repair damaged aortic
valves, compete for sales in  Europe . Edwards sells devices in
the U.S., where Medtronic is awaiting regulatory approval.  The U.S. market for the devices could reach $2.5 billion,
Jason Mills, an analyst with Canaccord Adams Inc. in San
Francisco, said in March.  A federal jury in April 2010 told CoreValve to compensate
 Irvine , California-based Edwards $72.6 million in lost profits,
and pay $1.3 million as a royalty on CoreValve sales. Edwards
said that further proceedings in court may require Medtronic
“to pay substantial additional damages accumulated after the
verdict was issued.”  U.S. District Judge Gregory Sleet in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
declined to halt sales of CoreValve’s Generation 3 ReValving
System because the company was moving production to  Mexico .
Edwards said that CoreValve never stopped its production in
 California . The Federal Circuit ordered the judge to review the
issue.  The case is Edwards Lifesciences AG v. CoreValve Inc.,
2011-1215 and 2011-1257, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit ( Washington ). The lower-court case is Edwards
Lifesciences v. CoreValve Inc., 08CV91, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  CBOE Sues International Securities Exchange Over Patents  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) ’s  Chicago  Board Options Exchange accused
Deutsche Boerse’s International Securities Exchange LLC of
infringing three of its patents with an automated system for
trading options.  CBOE, in a lawsuit filed in federal court in Chicago, is
seeking at least $525 million in damages, including lost profit
and royalties. The patents at issue involve quote-risk
monitoring and quote-modification services that were issued by
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in 2008, 2011 and on Sept.
11.  “CBOE has been granted a number of critical patents
covering its innovative and award-winning technology,”
according to the complaint. “These patents disclose and claim
electronic systems and methods for automatically adjusting
quotes on the exchange based on risk parameters and are crucial
to market maker participation in an exchange.”  The Nov. 12 complaint was filed six months after the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit reinstated a patent
infringement case brought against CBOE by International
Securities Exchange, or ISE.  Molly McGregor, a spokeswoman for New York-based ISE,
declined to comment on the lawsuit.  ISE was the first all-electronic U.S. options exchange when
it began in May 2000. CBOE sued ISE in 2007 after it received a
letter from ISE demanding that it pay patent royalties and was
sued by ISE in New York over its Hybrid Trading System that
blends traditional open-outcry trading with electronic
execution. Chicago-based CBOE sought a court ruling that cleared
its system of any infringement claims.  In dispute are patents 7,356,498; 7,980,457 and 8,266,044.  The case is Chicago Board Options Exchange Inc. v.
International Securities Exchange LLC, 12-cv-09805, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  Lindt, Haribo Go to German Court Over ‘Golden Bear’ Trademark  Lindt & Spruengli AG (LISN)  and Haribo GmbH of Bonn,  Germany , will
return to court in Cologne, Germany, Dec. 18 in a dispute over
the right to use “Gold Bear” in candy packaging, Confectionery
News  reported .  Haribo, which makes gummy bear candies under the Gold-Bears
brand, objected to Lindt’s chocolate “Teddy,” which is
packaged in gold foil, according to the trade publication.  Sylvia Kalin, a spokeswoman for Kilchberg, Switzerland-
based Lindt, said her company deliberately chose not to use
“gold” in the name of its product or related marketing,
according to Confectionery News.  Because the Lindt Teddy is made from chocolate, the two
products are in different segments of the candy market and
consumer misunderstanding is unlikely, Kalin said and
Confectionery News reported.  B.C. Marketing Settles With Grey Sail Over ‘Full Sail’ Marks  B.C. Marketing Concepts Inc., the maker of Full Sail beers,
settled a trademark dispute with a Rhode Island craft brewer.  Grey Sail Brewing Co. , based in Westerly, Rhode Island,
sued B.C. in May in federal court in Providence, Rhode Island,
seeking a declaration its name didn’t infringe B.C.’s “Full
Sail” marks.  According to court papers, the one-year-old brewery
received a cease-and-desist notice from B.C. in April, demanding
it quit using “Grey Sail” as its name. B.C., based in Hood
River,  Oregon , was established in 1987 and produces amber and
India pale ale and a range of seasonal brews,  according to the
company website .  The case was settled with each party to bear its own
expenses, the court said in an Oct. 25 filing.  Rhode Island’s Westerly Sun newspaper  reported  that Grey
Sail agreed to change the company name to “Grey Sail Brewing of
Rhode Island” and to emphasize its Rhode Island roots in its
marketing campaigns.  The case is Grey Sail Brewing Co. v. B.C. Marketing
Concepts Inc., 12-cv-338, U.S. District Court, District of Rhode
Island (Providence).  For more trademark news, click here.  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Zimbabwe Tobacco Companies Say Espionage Cutting Sales  Tobacco producers in  Zimbabwe  are accusing South African
rivals of getting involved in industrial espionage in efforts to
halt the export of cigarettes to South Africa, Zimbabwe’s Herald
newspaper  reported .  The Zimbabwean tobacco companies say they have lost 100
million South African rand ($11.4 million) worth of products to
hijackings and robberies resulting from espionage, according to
the newspaper.  At least eight citizens have been arrested in Harare,
Zimbabwe, on charges of industrial espionage related to
cigarette companies, the Herald reported.  Suspect Detection’s Cogito to Be Used in Energy Industry  Suspect Detection Systems Inc. (SDSS) , a New York-based maker of
security and law enforcement equipment, received multiple orders
for its  Cogito  automated interrogation system from a private
security firm seeking to detect industrial espionage, United
Press International  reported .  The system will be used to interrogate employees of what
UPI describes as an unidentified “major energy company.”  The Cogito system has biometric and documentation
verification features and interrogation capabilities, UPI
reported.  Suspect Detection Systems told UPI that the system, which
uses artificial-intelligence techniques and algorithms, can be
used without a professional interrogator.  European Cybercrime Center to Be Operational in January  The European Cybercrime Center is set to open in January in
Brussels, the Southeast European Times  reported .  The center will provide operational, technical and forensic
support to European Union member states as part of efforts to
combat cybercrime and industrial espionage, according to the
newspaper.  Targets of the center are organized crime groups, terrorist
groups and other criminals who use technology to commit
cybercrime and steal industrial secrets, the Times reported.  The center will work with both law enforcement and the
private sector, according to the Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  