-- Einhorn’s Greenlight Buys Yahoo Shares, Sells UnitedHealth, Hess
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-11-14T22:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/einhorn-s-greenlight-buys-yahoo-shares-sells-unitedhealth-hess.html
David Einhorn ’s hedge fund
Greenlight Capital Inc. bought shares of  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and  General
Motors Co. (GM)  during the third quarter while selling stakes in
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  and  Hess Corp. (HES)   Einhorn’s fund purchased a 5.05 million-share stake in
Yahoo and added 4.16 million GM shares during the three months
ended Sept. 30, according to a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission today. The hedge fund sold 2.29 million
shares of UnitedHealth, 4.59 million in  CareFusion (CFN)  Corp. and
2.09 million in Hess, representing all its shares in each.  The Yahoo purchase represents Einhorn’s third foray into
the  stock  in the last year and a half. He announced buying a
stake in May 2011, sold it two months later, said he bought
another in February and said in May he sold again.  Einhorn, known for betting against Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. before it collapsed in September 2008, last month said
investors should buy  GM (FM)  shares and sell short Chipotle Mexican
Grill Inc. In a short sale, traders bet stock prices will fall
by borrowing shares, hoping to repay them at a lower price and
pocket the difference.  Yahoo, the biggest U.S. web portal, has risen 12 percent
since the end of September, while GM added 6.2 percent.
UnitedHealth, CareFusion and Hess have dropped at least 5.9
percent since then.  Greenlight returned 3.4 percent in the first half of the
year, according to a July 23 letter to investors, a copy of
which was obtained by Bloomberg News. Hedge funds gained 1.1
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  