-- Telecoms Drop as ADRs Sink on Leadership: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-11-14T22:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/telecoms-drop-as-adrs-sink-on-leadership-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  slumped to a two-
month low in  New York , led by telecommunications companies, on
speculation investors are waiting for the nation’s new leaders
to enact measures to support the economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. fell 1.2 percent to 89.63, the lowest
close since Sept. 11.  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (CHU)  sank to a
three-month low and  China  Telecom Corp. traded at the widest
 discount  to its Hong Kong stock in a week after China Securities
Journal said the nation plans to open the sector to private
investment.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  tumbled as competition among the nation’s
online search engines heats up.  China has begun installing a new economic leadership by
indicating at the Communist Party congress that central bank
Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  will step aside and Vice Premier  Wang Qishan , the top finance official, will move to a new role.
Whoever fills their shows inherits an economy that has slowed
over seven quarters and spurred U.S.-listed companies to miss
analysts’ earnings estimates by 7.2 percent last quarter.  “Investors are waiting on the side for new measures from
the new leadership to help the economy that may come early next
year,” Michael Ding, the lead manager of the  China Region Fund (USCOX) 
at U.S. Global Investors Inc., which oversees $2.2 billion, said
by phone yesterday from San Antonio,  Texas . “For now, investors
prefer to take profit after a rally in overseas-traded Chinese
stocks in previous weeks.”  ETF Slides  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., lost 0.7 percent to a one-
month low of $35.74, after surging 6.3 percent in October. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 1.4 percent to 1,355.49 on
concern  Washington  won’t come to a deal over the U.S. budget and
as an Israeli air strike killed a top Hamas official in the  Gaza
Strip .  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of Chinese domestic shares
added 0.4 percent to 2,055.42, while the  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of companies traded in Hong Kong rose for the
first time in five days, jumping 1.7 percent to 10,405.76.  Mounting concern the U.S. won’t be able to reach a budget-
deficit reduction deal also sank Chinese equities, as the
world’s largest economy has been the biggest buyer of Chinese
goods this year.  China Unicom, the second-largest mobile phone carrier,
dropped 2.3 percent in a ninth day of declines to $14.55, the
lowest level since July 26. Its bigger competitor  China Mobile
Ltd. (941)  slid 0.6 percent to $54.41, the weakest close since Oct.
19.  Private Investments  China Telecom (CHA) , the smallest among the three state-
controlled carriers, plunged 2.4 percent to a two-month low of
$52.04. Its ADRs, each represents 100 underlying shares in the
company, traded 1.4 percent below the Hong Kong stock, the
biggest discount in a week.  China will issue a plan for private investment in the
telecom sector in March, China Securities Journal reported
yesterday. Network access, mobile telecom resale and value-added
services will be first areas open to private investors,
according to the newspaper.  Rising competition among the three biggest operators will
cut into their profits, causing concern among investors, Global
Investors’ Ding said. The sector’s opening to private investment
won’t have immediate impact on the industry as it requires
“heavy capital,” he said.  Baidu, the owner of the largest online search engine in
China, tumbled 5.1 percent to $93.57, the lowest level since
September. Trading volume on the stock was three times the daily
average over the past three months.  Search Engines  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU)  started a mobile-phone version of
a search engine that was first introduced on computers in
August, a  report  from Marbridge Consulting Ltd. said yesterday,
citing a Beijing Business newspaper.  While Baidu doesn’t see new market entrants as a threat, it
must still manage the shift as more users migrate from personal
computers to mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets,
Baidu’s Chief Executive Officer Robin Li said Oct. 30 on a
conference call.  Qihoo’s ADRs fell 2.1 percent to $23.01 yesterday in New
York.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , China’s third-largest solar maker,
tumbled 19 percent, sinking to a record $2.63. LDK Solar Co.,
the world’s second-biggest maker of wafers that convert the
sun’s energy to electricity, lost 8.4 percent to 98 cents.
Suntech Power Holdings slid 10 percent to 84.2 cents.  Vipshop Surges  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS)  jumped 9.9 percent to $12.45, the
most since its March 22 initial public offering. Chief Financial
Officer Donghao Yang said the Chinese online retailer is “on
track” for profit following better-than-estimated third-quarter
results.  Vipshop, which runs an online discount store for branded
goods, reported Nov. 13 third-quarter net loss of $1.5 million,
or a loss of 3 cents per ADR, according to U.S. accounting
rules. That was better than two analysts’ average estimate of a
$5.95 million loss compiled by Bloomberg.  “The company is right on track to turn to profitability in
the near-term future,” Yang said in a phone interview from  Los
Angeles  yesterday. Based on non-generally accepted accounting
principles, Vipshop recorded a net income of $640,542 in the
period, the first profitable quarter since it started business
in 2008.  The 30-day  volatility  in the Bloomberg China-US gauge was
17.22 yesterday, up from 16.89 the previous day, and compares
with this year’s average of 22.66. The Bloomberg Chinese Reverse
Mergers Index, which tracks a basket of companies that gained
U.S. listings after buying firms that already trade, retreated
1.6 percent to 70.06.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  