-- Telefonica’s Dividend Next Year Is Guaranteed, CFO Says
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-11-15T08:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/telefonica-says-2013-dividend-safe-on-shrinking-debt.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s planned dividend for
next year is “100 percent safe,” Finance Chief Angel Vila
said, seeking to reassure investors as European
telecommunications companies keep reducing shareholder rewards.  The carrier, Spain’s biggest, omitted this year’s payout
almost four months ago and pledged to pay 75 euro cents in two
tranches, in the fourth quarter of next year and in the second
quarter of 2014. Since then, peers including  France Telecom SA (FTE) 
and  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  have continued to scale down dividend
plans as competition and slowing economies hurt earnings.  “Next year’s dividend commitment is 100 percent safe,
without a doubt,” Vila said yesterday in an interview in
Barcelona at a conference organized by Morgan Stanley.  Europe ’s  most indebted  phone company is making progress on
debt reduction while its free  cash flow  will probably continue
to grow, Vila said. Madrid-based Telefonica’s operating income
before depreciation and amortization is “stabilizing” after
hitting its  lowest level  in the first quarter, he said.  Last week, Telefonica said its net debt had shrank to 52.8
billion euros ($67 billion) from 58.3 billion euros in June. Its
year-end target is 50 billion euros, Vila said. Third-quarter
Oibda was 5.35 billion euros, beating analysts’ estimates.  Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is reversing a
decade-long acquisition spree that expanded the company’s debt,
weighing on credit ratings. In recent months, Telefonica sold
shares in a German unit, divested a stake in China Unicom ( Hong
Kong ) Ltd., and disposed of the Atento call-center division.  Latin America  Telefonica is still studying a potential initial public
offering of its Latin American business and hasn’t reached a
decision, Vila said. The company is also weighing other asset
disposals that won’t alter its strategy, he said.  The shares fell 0.6 percent to 10.08 euros at 9:24 a.m. in
 Madrid . They have dropped 25 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 45.9 billion euros.  Telefonica has ruled out a sale of its stake in  Telecom
Italia SpA (TIT)  as it continues to generate “significant”
synergies, the executive said. The phone company and a group of
Italian financial investors together own 22.4 percent of Telecom
Italia through holding company Telco SpA. Telecom Italia said
this week Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  had expressed
interest in acquiring new shares in the country’s biggest phone
company.  No Offer  “We have not received any offer from Mr. Sawiris and don’t
expect to receive any offer from him,” Vila said. Telefonica
doesn’t expect Telecom Italia will need a capital increase, Vila
said.  Telecom Italia Chief Operating Officer Marco Patuano said
on Nov. 13 the company has no immediate need for a capital
boost.  Telefonica expects credit-rating companies to positively
value its efforts to reduce debt, Vila said, adding the company
is “consistent in improving its financial flexibility.”  The carrier also expects to reduce costs through network-
sharing agreements. An accord in  Germany  with  Royal KPN NV (KPN) ’s E-
Plus could be reached “if it adds value to Telefonica
Deutschland and Telefonica shareholders,” Vila said.  “We are very actively looking at network sharing
agreements to manage our capex efficiently,” Vila said. “We
are exploring potential deals with different companies and in
different markets. It doesn’t make sense to have so many
networks in so many markets. It’s the way forward.”  Network Sharing  Eelco Blok, CEO of KPN, also said at the Barcelona event
that the companies would benefit from an network deal.  “It’s not wishful thinking,” Blok said. “There’s real
value in there.”  KPN, whose debt is  rated  BBB by  Standard & Poor’s , the
second-lowest investment grade, and an equivalent Baa2 by
Moody’s Investors Service, may accept a lower ranking on a
temporary basis as the former Dutch phone monopoly assesses
different scenarios and its needs for investments, Blok said.
Telefonica’s debt has the same ratings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Barcelona at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  