-- Eletrobras Is Worst Power Bet as Rates Decline: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-11-15T00:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/eletrobras-is-worst-power-bet-as-rates-decline-corporate-brazil.html
Brazil’s push to reduce electricity
rates is making  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  the world’s
worst-performing major power utility.  Eletrobras, as the state-run company is known, has lost
investors 24 percent this quarter as the government orders
distribution rate cuts of as much as 28 percent. The company is
also being used as a policy tool to bail out a debt-laden
distributor for at least a third time.  The stock’s return since Sept. 30, the worst among power
companies with a market value of at least $5 billion, shows
minority holders are paying the price of President Dilma
Rousseff’s efforts to contain inflation and improve service in
remote areas. By comparison  Spain ’s Iberdrola SA and  Italy ’s
Enel SpA returned 9.6 percent and 0.2 percent, respectively,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Eletrobras faces a fork in the road, where it has to
decide if it’ll be a profit-maximizing company or if it’ll be a
ministry with shares,” Gabriel Salas, an analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said in a telephone interview from  New York 
yesterday. “It’s very difficult to have a combination of both
interests.”  A 51 percent slump this year makes Eletrobras the 9th worst
performer in the 818-member MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which
has gained 7 percent in 2012.  Eletrobras dropped 5.1 percent to 13.11 reais at close in
 Sao Paulo , the lowest since May 24, 2004.  Takeover Plan  The stock, heading toward the worst  annual performance 
since 1998, fell as much as 6.1 percent yesterday when the
company announced plans to take over Cia. de Eletricidade do
Amapa, or CEA, as part of an attempt by the federal government
to salvage the financially embattled power distributor
controlled by the Amazonian state of Amapa.  CEA’s debt is about 1.6 billion reais,  according  to the
state government website. CEA owed Eletrobras 900 million reais
by 2010, according to the Amapa government website.  Eletrobras didn’t disclose the price of the acquisition,
which is pending a financial restructuring by CEA, in which  it
held  a 0.3 percent stake on Dec. 31, 2011, according to
information published by CEA.  Eletrobras’s press office referred all questions regarding
the takeover of CEA, which has 165,349 clients, to the
regulatory statement announcing the takeover agreement. The
filing said additional details may be disclosed in the future.  Electricity companies in  Brazil  are holding negotiations
with authorities over renewal of concessions set to expire in
2015 and 2017. Rousseff announced Sept. 11 a plan to cut prices
as she seeks to make Brazilian industries more competitive.
Terms of the government’s proposal were announced Nov. 1.  Compensation Package  Companies that accept the cheaper prices as of next year
will be paid compensation as the new prices cover operating and
maintenance costs. The compensations announced Nov. 1 total 19
billion reais, with the amount for each company varying
according to their assets. Eletrobras is entitled to about 14
billion reais while Chief Executive Officer Jose da Costa
Carvalho said before the announcement that he expected 30
billion reais.  Cia. Energetica de  Minas Gerais , or Cemig, announced Oct.
16 that it won’t request renewal for three dams under the new
rules and  Cia de Transmissao de Energia Eletrica Paulista , known
as Cteep, said Nov. 12 that it will recommend shareholders
reject the proposal. Eletrobras doesn’t have the same option,
according to  Pedro Galdi , head of equity research at Sao Paulo-
based SLW Corretora.  “Eletrobras belongs to the government so it can’t say it
won’t renew concessions,” Galdi said in a telephone interview.  Credit Quality  The tussle over concession renewals could reduce
Eletrobras’s credit quality,  Fitch Ratings  said in a Nov. 7
report. Accepting the government terms will “significantly
increase” the company’s leverage levels, Fitch said.  The government has used Eletrobras as a policy tool by
saving distributors at least twice before. In 2003, the company
rescued Cia. Energetica do Maranhao and is in talks to take over
Cia Celg de Participacoes SA, a distributor in Goias state.  Government intervention makes Eletrobras a less attractive
prospect, said Felipe Rocha, an analyst at brokerage Omar
Camargo.  “While it has potential to be a good company, there’s that
question of always having to rescue distributors,” Rocha said
in a telephone interview from Curitiba, Brazil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  