-- Eligible Hispanic Vote Close to Doubling in 20 Years, Pew Finds
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-11-14T19:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/eligible-hispanic-vote-close-to-doubling-in-20-years-pew-finds.html
The number of Hispanic voters could
double within two decades as 17.6 million young people reach 18,
increasing the clout of an ethnic bloc that already showed its
power in the presidential election, according to a  report .  The Pew Hispanic Center said in the report that Latinos can
become an even more important group of voters in the U.S. than
they are now, when 71 percent supported President  Barack Obama 
for re-election, according to exit polls, and helped him carry
the battleground states of Colorado, Florida and  Nevada .  Obama’s support among Hispanics was four percentage points
 higher  than in 2008 and the highest since  Bill Clinton  in 1996
among presidential candidates.  “The record number of Latinos who cast ballots for
president this year are the leading edge of an ascendant ethnic
voting bloc that is likely to double in size within a
generation,” according to the report released today.  Pew estimated that 12.5 million of the 23.7 million
eligible Hispanic voters went to the polls, a turnout percentage
less than either whites or blacks, where more than 60 percent
cast ballots.  The growing number of young people who are now under 18
alone would increase the number of eligible Hispanic voters to
40 million by 2030. The number of actual voters would double
from current levels if they went to the polls in numbers similar
to other groups and if legal residents became naturalized
citizens. The survey found 5.4 million Hispanics living in the
U.S. legally who haven’t taken steps to become citizens.  Flexing Muscle  “The flexing of electoral muscle by Hispanic voters this
year conceivably could encourage more legal immigrants to become
naturalized citizens,” the report said.  The numbers would grow even more if the estimated 7.1
million undocumented Hispanic immigrants were given a path
toward citizenship.  Congressional Republicans have blocked efforts to allow
undocumented workers to remain legally in the U.S. Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , at a debate with party rivals
in January, called for “self-deportation,” meaning Hispanics
“decide that they can do better by going home because they
can’t find work here because they don’t have legal documentation
to allow them to work here.”  Obama earlier this year said the government would no longer
deport those brought to the U.S. as children and who have been
here for at least five years, have no criminal record and are in
school, graduated from high school or have been honorably
discharged from the military.  Republican  Senator Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina , who
said his party has “built a wall” between it and Hispanic
voters, said on  CBS News ’s “Face the Nation” on Nov. 12 that
he would restart bipartisan talks on a bill overhauling U.S.
immigration policy.  House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  told ABC News on Nov. 8
that “a comprehensive approach is long overdue, and I’m
confident that the president, myself, others can find the common
ground to take care of this issue once and for all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at   jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 