-- Telkom South Africa Says Profit Slumped, Names New Board Members
-- B y   J o h n   B o w k e r
-- 2012-11-14T08:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/telkom-south-africa-says-profit-slumped-names-new-board-members.html
Telkom SA Ltd. (TKG) , Africa’s largest
fixed-line operator, said first-half earnings slumped by as much
as 83 percent and appointed two new non-executive directors to
reach the minimum number required by regulators.  The company named Jabulane Albert Mabuza, the deputy
chairman of entertainment group Tsogo Sun Holdings Ltd., and
Kholeka Mzondeki, a former chief financial officer of Masana
Petroleum Solutions Pty Ltd., to the board, it said in a
statement today.  Their arrival takes the number of board members to the
required eight and will allow the company to step up a search
for a new chairman and chief executive officer after both
resigned over the course of the past month, Telkom said.  Adjusted earnings per share fell between 78 percent and 83
percent in the six months ended Sept. 30, the company said in a
separate statement today. Telkom has been struggling to compete
with mobile operators as more consumers use mobile phones for
voice as well as data services including broadband.  Telkom has asked the South African government, its largest
shareholder, to approve the sale of part of the business as it
seeks to expand into higher-margin broadband and mobile markets.
The government blocked the sale of a 20 percent stake to South
Korea’s KT Corp. this year, saying it was a strategic asset to
the country.  Telkom  shares  were up 0.3 percent to 16.55 rand at 10:02
a.m. in Johannesburg, after having declined as much as 1.9
percent earlier. They are down about 43 percent in the year to
date, compared with a 17 percent rise in the FTSE/JSE  Africa  All
Share Index.  Telkom expects to report interim results for the period on
about Nov. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Bowker in Johannesburg at 
 jbowker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  