-- Emerging-Market Stocks Post Longest Rout Since August
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-11-14T22:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/emerging-stocks-rise-first-time-in-five-days-china-banks-rally.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
fifth day, led by resources companies, as concern the U.S. won’t
be able to reach a budget-deficit reduction deal overshadowed
signs of economic recovery in South Korea.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  retreated 0.2 percent to
980.62 in New York, posting the longest stretch of declines
since Aug. 30.  Fibria Celulose SA (FIBR3) , the world’s largest pulp
producer, sank 5.8 percent in Sao Paulo and  Tecnisa SA (TCSA3) , a
Brazilian homebuilder, slumped the most on record as profit
trailed estimates.  Siam Cement Pcl (SCC)  declined to the lowest level
this month in Bangkok.  The developing nations’ gauge erased earlier gains as re-
elected President  Barack Obama  is negotiating to reach a
deficit-reduction deal with Congress to avert a $607 billion
fiscal cliff. Countries in the MSCI gauge send about 17 percent
of their exports to the U.S. on average, according to the World
Trade Organization. Economic growth will “bounce back” in
Asia’s fourth-largest economy next year, Bank of Korea Governor
Kim Choong Soo said at a forum in  Seoul  today.  “The fiscal cliff story is the overwhelming factor to the
pullback we’re seeing in emerging market equities,” Geoffrey Dennis, the global  emerging-markets  strategist at Citigroup Inc.
in New York, said by phone. “Most investors probably believe it
will be resolved, but if it isn’t, the U.S. falls into a
recession.”  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund , the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, lost 1.5
percent. The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, increased 1.6 percent.  Material Stocks  The sub-index of material stocks led declines among 10
 industry groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, sinking 1.4
percent to a two-month low. The measure of developing-nation
equities has advanced 7 percent this year, beating the 6.3
percent gain by the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed-country
equities. The emerging-markets gauge trades at 11.3 times
estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of
12.9, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Siam Cement,  Thailand ’s sixth-largest company by market
value with businesses ranging from cement and petrochemicals to
paper and building materials, lost 2.3 percent. Fibria retreated
the most since Sept. 26. Tecnisa plunged 16 percent after the
Sao Paulo-based homebuilder reported third-quarter net income
shrank to 16.7 million reais ($8.1 million), below the median
estimate of 20.4 million reais.  Brazil ’s Bovespa Index retreated 2.1 percent, the most
since Sept. 25.  Turkey ’s ISE National 100 index lost 1 percent
as  Russia ’s Micex slid to the lowest level since July 25.  Won Strengthens  OAO Surgutneftegas, a Russian oil producer, dropped 2.1
percent, sinking to the lowest level since June.  Mol Nyrt. (MOL) ,  Hungary ’s largest refiner, fell 0.7 percent
after Chief Financial Officer Jozsef Simola said on a conference
call that he expects “average” downstream profitability in the
last three months of 2012.  The won strengthened 0.4 percent to a 14-month high of
1,085.05 per dollar, after a government report showed that South
Korea’s unemployment rate fell to 3 percent last month, the
lowest level since February 2008.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 301 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  Crude oil for December delivery advanced 1.1 percent a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement since Nov. 6, after  Israel  carried out a series of
airstrikes in the Gaza Strip that killed the leader of Hamas’s
militant wing, bolstering concern that unrest in the Middle East
will intensify and affect supplies. Prices are down 13 percent
this year  ‘New Leadership’  The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index rallied 1.7 percent
as the new Communist Central Committee was announced. The
Shanghai Composite Index added 0.4 percent as  Taiwan ’s Taiex
Index rose 0.3 percent. Gauges in  Poland , the Czech Republic and
Hungary also gained.  China’s Vice President Xi Jinping and Vice Premier Li Keqiang were re-appointed to the Communist Party’s central
committee today, while members of the Politburo Standing
Committee, the top decision-making body, will be elected
tomorrow in Beijing. The  yuan  rose to a 19-year high.  “People are looking forward for economic reform in the
future with the new leadership,” Ang Kok Heng, who manages the
equivalent of $424 million as chief investment officer at
Phillip Capital Management Sdn., said by phone in Kuala Lumpur.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  advanced 3.2 percent in Hong
Kong after Chairman Wang Hongzhang said they can keep bad loans
under control, according to Financial News.  Industrial and
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s largest lender by
market value, surged 3 percent from a four-week low yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  