-- Tencent Falls as Profit Misses Estimates: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-15T08:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/tencent-profit-rises-32-china-s-slowing-may-hurt-ad-sales-1-.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  fell the most
in 13 months in Hong Kong trading after  China ’s biggest Internet
company posted profit that missed analyst estimates and said a
slowing economy is paring advertising growth.  The  games and social networks operator  fell 7 percent to
close at HK$249.20, its biggest decline since Oct. 3, 2011. Net
income climbed to 3.22 billion  yuan  ($517 million) in the third
quarter from 2.45 billion yuan a year earlier, Tencent said in a
statement yesterday. That fell short of the 3.33 billion-yuan
average of eight analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The decelerating economy in China “may slow revenue growth
rates for the online advertising industry as a whole,”
including Tencent’s own business, the company said yesterday.
Chief Executive Officer Pony Ma has sought to reduce the
company’s reliance on online games by adding users to Tencent’s
social-networking sites including Qzone and Pengyou.  “Games continue to be the driver, which everyone expected,
but online advertising is the disappointment,” said Billy Leung, an analyst at OSK Securities  Hong Kong  Ltd. “The results
aren’t that bad because the user-base growth is still healthy.”  Sales rose 54 percent to 11.6 billion yuan, matching the
average estimate of 12 analysts. The  stock  has gained 60 percent
this year, outpacing the 15 percent advance in the city’s
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Profit Drivers  “I’m not sure the stock can go a whole lot higher unless
the company can show it is not only doing well in games, but
also developing substantial new profit drivers in other areas,”
said Justin Weiss, an analyst at JI  Asia  in  Tokyo . “It’s not
just about the games business staying strong, but about a larger
bottom-line impact from other areas, such as advertising and
smartphone-based services.”  Internet advertising revenue increased to 1.02 billion yuan
in the third quarter, the Shenzhen-based company said. Ad
 revenue  gained 69 percent year-on-year, with growth from the
previous quarter slowing to 15 percent, Tencent said.  “Our growth will be a function of the industry’s broader
growth” for ad sales, Chief Strategy Officer  James Mitchell 
said on a conference call yesterday. “The industry’s broader
growth is choppier now than it was 12 months ago and could
remain choppy for some time.”  Internet Rivals  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of China’s most-used search engine, on
Oct. 29 forecast the slowest quarterly sales growth in three
years, citing the weaker economy as deterring online advertising
spending. Revenue will range from 6.16 billion yuan to 6.35
billion yuan in the fourth quarter, Beijing-based Baidu said at
the time. The top end of the forecast range represents year-on-
year  sales  growth of 42 percent, the slowest pace since the
fourth quarter of 2009.  NetEase Inc. (NTES) , the operator of China’s second-largest online
games website, yesterday also reported third quarter profit that
missed analysts’ estimates.  Net income  of $129.2 million fell
short of the $148.7 million average of nine analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sina Corp. (SINA) , operator of the Twitter-like Weibo microblog,
is scheduled to report financial results later today.  Tencent’s revenue from Internet services including online
games rose to 8.37 billion yuan in the quarter, a 39 percent
increase from a year earlier. Tencent licenses the games
“Dungeon & Fighter” and “Cross Fire” from  Nexon Co. (3659)  It also
has self-developed titles including “Legend of Yulong.”  The company had 784 million monthly active user accounts
for its QQ instant messaging service at the end of September, a
10 percent gain from a year earlier. Tencent had 507 million
registered users for its microblog service, it said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  