-- EU Bank Firewall May Push Up Lenders' Costs, AFME Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-11-14T17:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/eu-bank-firewall-may-push-up-lenders-costs-afme-says.html
Banks (SX7P)  may face increased funding
costs and have to cut back lending if the European Union presses
ahead with plans to impose structural changes, according to an
industry lobbying group.  Proposals from an EU advisory group to force banks to put
much of their trading activities into separately capitalized
units may have a “significant detrimental impact on European
growth,” the  Association for Financial Markets in Europe  said
in an e-mailed statement. The plans “could also weaken the
structure of the European banking sector” and reduce
competition, the group said.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, has said
that he’s weighing proposals made by the advisory group, which
was led by European Central Bank Governing Council member Erkki Liikanen. The measures, which would force lenders to set up
legally separate trading entities, are a “good basis” for
future EU policy making, Barnier has said.  Liikanen’s proposals are “the minimum needed” to address
the problem of banks being too-big-to-fail, Finance Watch, a
lobby group which has members including labor unions and housing
associations, said in an e-mail.  “It is essential that policymakers do not water down these
proposals under pressure from the banking lobby,” the group
said. “The way banks are structured today is a handicap to the
EU’s financial stability and growth.”  If the Liikanen proposals are implemented as they stand,
“there is a serious risk that the  capital markets  will be
unable to meet Europe’s financing needs at this time of very
subdued bank lending,” the Afme said.  Afme represents international lenders including  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Its
statement was co-signed by the  International Swaps and
Derivatives Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  