-- EU Companies Face 40% Quota Rule Favoring Women on Boards
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-11-14T12:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/eu-companies-face-40-quota-rule-favoring-women-on-boards-2-.html
Companies may be required to favor
women over equally qualified men for supervisory board seats, as
they strive to meet a 40 percent quota for female directors the
European Union set out in draft rules published today.  The European Commission adopted a proposal aiming to make
boards two-fifths female by 2020, Mina Andreeva, a spokeswoman
for EU Justice Commissioner Viviane Reding, said in an e-mailed
statement. Regulators amended earlier versions so companies
would only face sanctions if they fail to favor women, even if
they don’t meet the quota.  “We are proposing legislation to smash the glass ceiling
that keeps women out of top jobs,” Reding said at a press
conference today. “Our proposal has teeth.”  Some 13.7 percent of corporate board seats in the EU are
held by women, following a 1.9 percent increase between October
2010 and January 2012, the commission said in a  report  in March.
The lack of female candidates for a seat on the European Central
Bank’s Executive Board saw European Parliament lawmakers oppose
the appointment of Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch this month.  The measures would apply to about 5,000 listed companies in
the EU by 2020 and state-owned companies by 2018, the commission
said. They exclude companies with less than 250 employees or
global sales below 50 million euros ($64 million.)  Recruitment Processes  The modified proposal doesn’t really set a quota, said
Clodagh Hayes, a partner at Linklaters LLP in  London . Companies
that don’t meet the target “just need to ensure their
recruitment processes are transparent and give preference to
equally qualified female candidates,” she said.  “After doing the maths, many U.K. companies will find they
comply in any case,” Hayes said in an e-mailed statement. “The
40 percent target can be satisfied by having one female non-
executive director out of four or two out of six.”  The draft rules need the backing of most of the EU’s 27
member states and the bloc’s parliament, which can amend draft
laws before they become final.  The amended proposals can, if governments wish, exempt
listed companies from meeting the quota if women make up less
than 10 percent of their employees or if women hold at least
one-third of all director positions.  Companies would also have to disclose to unsuccessful
candidates their reasons for selecting board members. The rules
wouldn’t stop companies from choosing a man if an objective
assessment made him preferable to an equally qualified woman.  Legal Concerns  Reding’s initial plan was altered after it didn’t win the
support of EU commissioners. The EU’s legal adviser warned that
a standalone binding quota for women on boards may be not be
“legally possible,” according to notes of an Oct. 23 meeting
where the rules were discussed.  While EU rules can’t mandate companies to reach a target,
they can require companies to make efforts toward a target, said
a person familiar with the talks last month.  A European rule on the issue is “doubtful,” German
government spokesman Steffan Seibert said, and should be handled
by national governments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  