-- EU Mulls Tighter Carbon Goal, Permit Withdrawal to Curb Glut
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-11-14T12:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/eu-mulls-tighter-climate-goal-permit-withdrawal-to-curb-glut.html
The European Union set out a tighter
climate goal and cancellation of carbon permits as potential
options to strengthen its emissions trading system in the coming
years and reduce a glut of allowances.  The 27-member bloc may also consider introducing mechanisms
to support carbon prices and limits on imported credits, the
European Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm, said in a report
about the functioning of the EU emissions program today. The
document is intended to trigger a debate on the best strategy to
overhaul the world’s biggest cap-and-trade system after carbon
prices sank to a record amid oversupply.  “The commission wants an even more robust European carbon
market that provides a stronger driving force for carbon markets
elsewhere,” EU Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard said in a
statement published today in Brussels.  The long-term options sketched out by the commission would
complement a proposal on Monday to delay sales of 900 million
allowances originally foreseen for the period from 2013 through
2015 to alleviate the surplus and help prices recover. The
strategy to postpone some auctions of carbon permits is known as
backloading and needs approval from national governments to be
enacted.  “We must not flood a market that is already
oversupplied,” Hedegaard said. “Market operators must have
clarity before year-end on this. At the same time, the
Commission presents options for possible structural measures
that can provide a sustainable solution to the surplus in the
longer term.”  Delaying Auctions  The EU Climate Change Committee, composed of
representatives of national governments, is scheduled to first
discuss the proposed backloading volume at its next meeting
tomorrow in Brussels. While delaying auctions of 900 million
allowances won’t change the emissions cap in the system, it will
temporarily lead to a better balance between supply and demand,
resulting in a more gradual build-up of the surplus, the
commission said.  Two other scenarios the EU considered to propose,
postponing auctions of 1.2 billion or 400 million allowances,
would either increase the risk of “significant upward
pressure” at the beginning of the next trading period starting
in 2013 and a corresponding decline later, or would fail to
sufficiently rebalance supply and demand at the start of the
next phase, the commission said.  60 Percent  EU carbon permits for December declined as much as 4.2
percent to 8.06 euros ($10.27) a metric ton on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange after the report was published, and stood at
8.15 euros as of 11:36 a.m. in  London .  The contract has lost about 60 percent in the past four
years as the financial crisis hurt industrial production and cut
demand from industry for pollution rights, boosting a glut of
allowances to almost 1 billion metric tons, or almost half of
the average annual pollution limit in the system at the
beginning of 2012. The excess can be around 2 billion permits by
the end of the next trading period, known as Phase 3, if the EU
fails to tackle it, the commission said.  While backloading would allow for a more stable functioning
of the carbon market in Phase 3, it will not address the
structural surplus of allowances, according to the report. To do
so the EU will need to enact measures that would affect “more
profoundly and permanently the balance between supply and
demand,” the commission said. The six long-term scenarios
outlined in the report don’t constitute legislative proposals.  Increase Target  One option may be to increase the EU target to reduce
emissions to 30 percent in 2020 compared with 1990 levels from
the current 20 percent, according to the report. To tighten the
goal to that level the EU would need to remove 1.4 billion
allowances from the market, the document showed. A revision of
the current EU law would require support by national governments
and the Parliament.  A second option would be to cancel permits through a new
decision by the parliament and member states, without changing
the existing law, the commission said. That would affect
allowances to be auctioned while leaving free allocations to
companies in the ETS intact, according to the report.  “The measure could be effective in addressing the overall
supply-demand imbalance over Phase 3,”the commission said. “It
would implicitly increase the numerical reduction target for
2020 and thus (partially) restore the ambition level of the 2008
climate-energy package, but it would not directly affect the
framework after 2020.”  Linear Reduction  The third potential option included in the report is a
revision of the 1.74 percent linear reduction factor by which
pollution caps in the ETS fall annually from 2013. While the EU
law envisages a review of the factor as of 2020, with a decision
to be adopted by 2025, the change could be brought forward,
according to the commission. Any potential change, which would
address the imbalance in the next trading period and also affect
the supply of allowances after 2020, would need approval by
governments and the Parliament.  The ETS could also be strengthened by expanding into new
sectors or tougher rules on imports of carbon offsets in Phase
4, starting in 2020, to initially allow “for no or much more
limited access to international credits,” the report showed.  “Short-term demand shocks could be contained through the
remaining surplus in the EU ETS, and do not require per
definition a large amount of international credits,” according
to the commission. “Additional flexibility regarding the access
to international credits could be foreseen in case of strong and
sustained price increases.”  Price Floor  The sixth scenario floated by the commission includes two
mechanisms to temporarily support the price of allowances, a
carbon price floor and a price management reserve. Under the
latter an amount of permits could be put in a reserve if a
decline in demand would lead to “an excessive price decrease
below a certain level deemed to affect the orderly functioning
of the market,” the commission said.  These mechanisms would “alter the very nature of the
current EU ETS being a quantity-based market instrument,”
according to the commission.  “They require governance arrangements, including a process
to decide on the level of the price floor or the levels that
would activate the reserve,” the commission said. “This
carries a downside in that the carbon price may become primarily
a product of administrative and political decisions or
expectations about them, rather than a result of the interplay
of market supply and demand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  