-- Europe Stocks Decline to Two-Month Low as Output Drops
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-11-14T17:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/european-stock-futures-fall-after-u-s-selloff-results.html
European (SXXP)  stocks fell to a two-month
low as industrial production dropped the most in at least three
years,  Greece ’s recession deepened, and company results from
 ICAP Plc (IAP)  to Mediaset SpA disappointed investors.  ICAP retreated 9.2 percent after the world’s largest broker
of transactions between banks reported a slump in earnings.
Mediaset declined 2.9 percent after the broadcaster cut its
full-year profit forecast.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS) 
slid 5.1 percent after posting an unexpected loss.  The benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index fell 0.9 percent to
268.14 at the close of trading, its lowest level since Sept. 5.
The gauge has lost 2.4 percent since the re-election of
President  Barack Obama  on Nov. 6 as investors turned their
attention to the U.S. fiscal cliff and Europe’s debt crisis.  “The market is still preoccupied with the same things --
Greece and the negotiations going on there,  Spain  keeps bubbling
along in the background as to when they will ask for a bailout
and the U.S. fiscal cliff,” said  Andrea Williams , head of
European equities at Royal London Asset Management which
oversees about $1 billion. “We are also coming towards the tail
end of the reporting season in Europe, you’ve had a few
disasters but generally they have been there or thereabouts.”  Euro-area industrial production dropped the most in more
than three years in September, led by double-digit declines in
Portugal and Ireland. Output fell 2.5 percent from August, when
it increased 0.9 percent, the European Union’s statistics office
in Luxembourg said today. The median economist estimate was for
a drop of 2 percent, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Greek Recession  Greece’s  economy  contracted for a 17th straight quarter, as
the country’s slump deepened amid austerity measures tied to its
bailouts. Gross domestic product declined 7.2 percent in the
third quarter from the same period last year after dropping 6.3
percent in the second, the Athens-based Hellenic Statistical
Authority said in an e-mailed statement today.  In the U.K., jobless claims rose at the fastest pace in
more than a year, increasing by 10,100 to 1.58 million in
October. The median economist estimate was for no change.  Europe’s budget enforcers proposed easing the pressure on
Spain to cut the deficit, backing further away from the
austerity-first mantra that has dominated the response to the
sovereign-debt crisis.  The European Commission said Spain doesn’t need to compound
the budget-cutting pain in 2012 or 2013 and indicated the
country would be eligible for a  credit line  to shore up its
public balance sheet.  ‘Effective Action’  “Spain has taken effective action,” EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters in
Brussels today. Asked whether Spain meets conditions for aid, he
said: “Spain is on track as regards taking policies that will
help restore its competitiveness and health of public
finances.”  National benchmark indexes declined in 14 of the 18
western-European markets today.  France ’s CAC 40 slipped 0.9
percent,  Germany ’s DAX lost 0.9 percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE
100 fell 1.1 percent.  Profit has topped analysts’ forecasts at 52 percent of the
companies on the Stoxx 600 that have reported earnings since
Oct. 9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue has
beaten estimates at 53 percent of companies, down from 60
percent in the previous quarter, the data show.  ICAP tumbled 9.2 percent to 281.4 pence after the company
reported a 26 percent decline in fiscal first-half pretax profit
to 137 million pounds ($217 million) as the sovereign-debt
crisis hurt trading. The company also said full-year profit
would be at the “low end” of the 300 million-pound to 332
million-pound range forecast by analysts.  Mediaset Loss  Mediaset slid 2.9 percent to 1.24 euros after the
broadcaster reported a third-quarter net loss of 88.4 million
euros ($112.5 million) compared with a profit of 1.4 million
euros a year earlier. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey had
estimated a net loss of 79 million euros.  The company, which reported a net loss of 45.4 million
euros for the first nine months, said it now expects its full-
year net result “in line with that recorded in the first nine
months.” In July, it repeated a forecast for profit to fall
this year.  Monti Paschi fell 5.1 percent to 20.1 euro cents after
 Italy ’s third-biggest bank unexpectedly reported a third-quarter
loss of 47.4 million euros as provisions for bad loans almost
doubled. The average analyst estimate was for net income of
103.4 million euros.  EDF Slides  Electricite de France SA slipped 4.8 percent to 14.50
euros, its lowest price in almost seven years, after the world’s
biggest operator of nuclear reactors cut its annual target for
French atomic-energy output for the second time this year and
said profit may be little changed in 2013. The company also
reported a 6.6 percent increase in revenue for the first nine
months of the year.  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  fell 2.4 percent to 338.8 pence as
Britain’s third-largest supermarket chain predicted the grocery
market will remain “challenging” as food inflation increases
in the next few months, with shoppers buying less. The retailer
reported a 5.4 percent rise in first-half underlying pretax
profit to 373 million pounds. That compares with the 371.3
million-pound median analyst estimate in a Bloomberg Survey.  Vivendi (VIV)  SA jumped 4.7 percent to 15.69 euros after the
company said earnings will fall less than expected this year,
helped by cost cuts and demand for video games. The owner of
record company  Universal Music Group  also reported that adjusted
third-quarter profit declined 2.9 percent to 665 million euros,
beating the average analyst estimate of 598 million euros.  Infineon Gains  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  climbed 5.9 percent to 5.55 euros
after Europe’s second-biggest semiconductor maker said it plans
to reduce spending next year after fourth-quarter sales and
operating profit topped analysts’ estimates.  Operating profit of 116 million euros in the three months
ended Sept. 30 beat the 105 million-euro average estimate by
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Sales slipped 1 percent to 982
million euros, compared with analysts’ estimate of 974 million
euros.  Enel SpA (ENEL)  rose 2.2 percent to 2.82 euros after Italy’s
biggest utility reported third-quarter earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of 4.48 billion euros,
exceeding the average analyst estimate of 4.08 billion euros.
Chief Executive Officer  Fulvio Conti  said growth in  Latin
America  and eastern Europe helped offset the ongoing downturn in
the euro area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  