-- Euro-Area Industrial Output Drops Most in More Than 3 Years
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2012-11-14T10:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/euro-area-industrial-output-drops-most-in-more-than-three-years.html
Euro-area industrial production
dropped the most in more than three years in September, led by
double-digit declines in  Portugal  and Ireland.  Output in the 17-nation euro area fell 2.5 percent from
August, when it increased 0.9 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Economists had
projected a drop of 2 percent, according to the median of 35
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. From a year earlier,
September output slumped 2.3 percent.  European companies are struggling to maintain sales and
earnings as the euro-area economy weakens under pressure from
the fiscal crisis and faltering global growth. The EU last week
cut its 2013 growth forecast for the euro-area economy to just
0.1 percent, down from a May projection of 1 percent.  “The latest growth indicators around the world, as well as
the high levels of unemployment in the EU, raise concerns about
our economic prospects,” EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said today in the text of a speech in
Brussels. “The indicators point to further short-term
weakness.”  The euro, which has declined more than 6 percent against
the dollar in the past year, traded at $1.2756 at 11:06 a.m. in
Brussels, up 0.4 percent on the day.  Unemployment Rate  The euro-area  unemployment rate  is at a record 11.6 percent
and at least five nations in the bloc are in a recession.
 Services and manufacturing output  in the area contracted for a
ninth month in October, data show.  Euro-area gross domestic product  probably shrank  0.1
percent in the third quarter after a 0.2 percent decline in the
previous three months, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. The statistics agency will release the GDP report
tomorrow.  Industrial output dropped 12.6 percent in Ireland and 12
percent in Portugal in September from the prior month, today’s
data showed. In  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, industrial
production fell 2.1 percent, while  France  showed a 2.7 percent
decrease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  