-- Dell, Nvidia Tips Given to Insider Defendants, Jury Told
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-11-14T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/level-global-insider-jury-told-defendants-got-illicit-tip.html
Former Diamondback Capital
Management LLC analyst Jesse Tortora told a federal court jury
he passed illegal tips about  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  to his
boss, portfolio manager Todd Newman.  Tortora, who has pleaded guilty to  securities fraud  and is
cooperating with the U.S., was the first witness to testify as
the insider-trading trial of Newman and Level Global Investors
LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson got under way yesterday in
 Manhattan . Newman and Chiasson are accused of using a “corrupt
chain” of insiders at public companies to make more than $70
million for their funds.  Tortora told jurors he got illicit tips on Dell and Nvidia
from friends who worked at the technology companies and passed
them to Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, who worked for Chiasson.
Tortora said Adondakis told him he gave the information to
Chiasson and David Ganek, another co-founder of New York-based
Level Global.  Asked by Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps what
Adondakis told him he did with the inside information, Tortora
replied, “He told me he passed the inside information to his
superiors, Chiasson and Ganek, for the purpose of trading on
it.”  Lawyers for Newman and Chiasson told jurors in their
opening statements yesterday that their clients didn’t know the
information they received was obtained illegally.  SAC Capital  Tortora said he also passed illegal tips to his friend Jon Horvath, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP technology analyst who
pleaded guilty and is cooperating with the U.S.  Apps asked Tortora what Horvath said he did with the
nonpublic information about technology companies he passed to
him.  “He told me he passed it to his superior, Mike Steinberg
for trading purposes,” Tortora replied.  Michael Steinberg and Ganek haven’t been accused of
criminal wrongdoing. Steinberg’s lawyer, Barry Berke, previously
declined to comment on the case. Ganek’s attorney,  John Carroll ,
said his client hasn’t been charged in the case.  “After a two year investigation and with the trial now
under way it speaks for itself that one, no one else from the
fund has been charged and two, I haven’t heard anything from the
government about my client,” Carroll said in an e-mailed
statement.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC Capital, declined
to comment on Tortora’s testimony.  Of the eight people charged in the case, six have pleaded
guilty to insider trading, including Tortora, Adondakis and
Danny Kuo, a former analyst at Whittier Trust Co., a South
Pasadena, California-based wealth-management company.  ‘Corrupt Chain’  Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Tarlowe told jurors in his
opening statement yesterday that the government’s witnesses will
include Adondakis, former Dell employee Sandeep Goyal and Hyung
Lim, a former  Altera Corp. (ALTR)  executive.  “They used a corrupt chain of people to get the
information into the hands of the defendants,” Tarlowe said.
“The defendants chose to break the law. Why? Because they
wanted to make big money for themselves and for their  hedge
funds .”  Chiasson made more than $57 million trading on illegal Dell
tips and about $10 million on Nvidia, the prosecutor said.
Newman, at  Stamford , Connecticut-based Diamondback, made about
$3.8 million from Dell trades and earned about $48,000 on
Nvidia, he said.  The two are charged with conspiracy to commit securities
fraud and five counts of securities fraud. The latter crime is
punishable by as long as 20 years in prison. Both men have
pleaded not guilty.  Illicit Tips  Tortora told the jury he passed illicit tips, many of which
he obtained from Goyal, to Newman and Adondakis.  Stephen Fishbein, a lawyer for Newman, told jurors his
client didn’t know the information provided to him by Tortora
was obtained illegally or was mixed in with legitimate research
data.  “ Todd Newman  worked hard for his hedge fund,” Fishbein
said. “He did not cheat. He did not steal. He did not try to
get inside information.”  In 2008, when the alleged illegal Dell trades occurred,
Newman traded on more than 100 stocks a day and relied upon
analysts to prepare research for him, Fishbein said. After
Newman fired Tortora, the analyst held a grudge against his
former boss and the hedge fund, the lawyer said.  ‘Far Removed’  “Mr. Newman did not know anything, because he was far
removed from the sources of inside information, and Tortora made
it look like he was conducting legitimate, honest research,”
Fishbein told the jury.  Chiasson’s lawyer,  Reid Weingarten , told jurors that his
client had no idea that Adondakis was passing illicit nonpublic
information and instead argued Adondakis was obtaining and
keeping inside information for himself and his group of friends.  Adondakis, Tortora and company insiders were members of a
clique of friends who called themselves “the Fight Club” after
a Brad Pitt movie. Weingarten called Adondakis “a corrupt
member of the Fight Club” who liked to go to  Las Vegas  and
rented vacation homes together in the Hamptons to the east of
 New York  City.  Traveled, Partied  “They traveled together, they partied together, they ate
together, they went on vacation together, and they shared
information,” Weingarten said.  Ganek hired Chiasson to be his analyst when he was at SAC
Capital, the lawyer said. Both Ganek and Chiasson were astute at
reading the market, enabling them to earn a “phenomenal”
amount of money for SAC.  The lawyer assailed Adondakis’s credibility and urged
jurors to see there won’t be any evidence corroborating his
account that Chiasson knew he was receiving nonpublic
information from his analyst.  “You will learn Adondakis was a criminal,” Weingarten
told jurors. “He is an easy, practiced liar, and when it is in
Sam Adondakis’s interest, he will lie,” Weingarten said. After
the FBI approached him, Adondakis decided to implicate his
friends as well as Chiasson, the lawyer said.  The case is the latest in a series of  insider-trading  cases
that last month yielded a two-year prison sentence for the
government’s highest-profile target, former  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  Director Rajat Gupta. Gupta was convicted of insider
trading for conspiring with Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. The  fund manager  is serving a term of 11 years in
prison.  Of 72 people charged with insider trading by U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara’s Manhattan office since August 2009, 69 have
pleaded guilty or were convicted at one of six earlier trials.
One man remains a fugitive.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 1:12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  