-- Ex-New York Lawmaker Meng Admists Soliciting Bribe
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-11-14T21:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/ex-new-york-lawmaker-jimmy-meng-admits-to-soliciting-bribes.html
Former  New York  state lawmaker Jimmy Meng, whose daughter was elected to the  U.S. Congress  this
month, pleaded guilty to soliciting bribes in exchange for
helping an associate avoid prison time.  Meng, 69, a former state assemblyman, admitted today in
Brooklyn, New York, federal court that he asked for $80,000,
packed in a fruit basket, to pay off prosecutors and help the
associate obtain a lenient sentence for tax crimes. Rather than
fulfill the promise, Meng planned “to keep the money,” he told
U.S. District Judge Allyne R. Ross.  “Your purpose here was to obtain for yourself the
$80,000?” Ross asked during the brief hearing.  “Yes,” Meng said.  Meng’s daughter, Grace Meng, a state assemblywoman and
Democrat from Queens, New York, was elected earlier this month
to the U.S. House of Representatives, defeating Republican New
York City Councilman  Daniel Halloran . In January, she will be
among the new majority of House Democrats as women and minority-
group members for the first time outnumber white men.  Grace Meng said in a statement that she is “deeply
saddened” by the case.  “Today, he has taken full responsibility for his actions
and I support his decision,” she said. “This has been a
difficult time for our family and we continue to pray for
guidance in the coming months.”  A lawyer for Jimmy Meng, Todd Greenberg, said after the
hearing that his client is “a good person.”  “This is the first time in his 70 years that he had a lapse
in judgment,” Greenberg said.  Meng faces a likely sentence of 12 to 18 months in prison on
a count of wire fraud. His sentencing is scheduled for March 12.  The case is U.S. v. Meng, 1:12-mj-00695, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  