-- Mexican Peso Posts Longest Losing Streak Since August on Europe
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-11-14T00:20:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/mexican-peso-posts-longest-losing-streak-since-august-on-europe.html
Mexico ’s peso posted its longest
losing streak since August as a drop in German investor
confidence fueled concern that  Europe  will weigh on global
growth and the market for the Latin American country’s exports.  The peso fell 0.3 percent to 13.2477 per dollar at 4 p.m.
in Mexico City, its fifth straight day of declines and the
currency’s longest streak of drops since the period ended Aug.
30. It’s up 5.2 percent this year.  The peso fell with most emerging market currencies as the
ZEW Center for European Economic Research suggested that
Europe’s debt crisis is having an increasing impact on  Germany .
Concern over the European crisis, which helped make the peso
Latin America’s worst-performing major currency in 2011 on
concern lower global growth would damp exports, is growing as
the regional finance ministers and the  International Monetary
Fund  failed to agree on how  Greece  will repay its debt.  “I would expect it to weaken further,” Flavia Cattan- Naslausky, a strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
said in a phone interview from Stamford,  Connecticut .  “The
finance ministers in Europe, their public disagreement with
regards to Greece, has really sort of tainted a bit the external
appetite.”  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a gain in the peso, versus those
betting on a decline, is shrinking, figures from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. Net longs fell
by 11,587 contracts to 114,422 last week. They rose in September
to 141,256, the highest level since at least 1995.  Greece Outlook  Creditors led by Germany opted late yesterday to keep money
flowing to Greece instead of risking a default that could lead
to the nation’s exit from the euro.  European finance ministers put off until Nov. 20 a decision
on how to cover additional Greek needs and left unclear whether
the IMF will continue to contribute. IMF Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  disagreed with a decision by the
representatives of the 17-nation  euro zone  to postpone the goal
of getting Greece’s debt down to 120 percent of gross domestic
product by two years, until 2022.  Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras told a European
Parliament hearing that yesterday’s euro-area meeting was
“constructive” and he expects an accord to be reached on
rescue funding at a Nov. 20 meeting.  Yields on Mexico’s peso bonds due in 2024 rose two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.44 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell 0.26 centavo to
140.36 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  