-- Facebook Challenges LinkedIn With Online Job Search Tool
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-11-14T21:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/facebook-rolls-out-application-linking-users-with-jobs.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , in a challenge to
 LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , is rolling out an application that connects
candidates with job openings and recruiters on the world’s
largest social-networking service.  The new service features more than 1.7 million jobs from
partners that include  Monster Worldwide Inc. (MWW)  and BranchOut Inc.,
the company said on its website today. The online app follows
Facebook’s introduction of the Social Jobs Partnership last year
with the U.S. Department of Labor and other agencies.  Facebook, which has grown to more than 1 billion users, is
expanding into new services and markets as it seeks to attract
more users and keep them longer on its site. That’s putting
pressure on LinkedIn, a professional-networking site with 187
million users that has faced some growth concerns.  “Facebook is all about connecting people and we’re
thrilled to see developers leveraging our platform to connect
job seekers and prospective employers,” Marne Levine,
Facebook’s vice president for global public policy, said in a
statement.  “By allowing job seekers to view and share job openings
based on personalized criteria, like location and industry, the
Social Jobs Application builds on our broader effort to help
people use social media to find jobs in the U.S.,” Levine said.  Shares of  Mountain View , California-based LinkedIn fell as
much as 3.7 percent after Facebook’s announcement, and traded
down less than 1 percent to $98.77 at the close in New York.
Facebook, based in Menlo Park, California, rose 13 percent to
$22.36.  The new app is a “central location” for recruiters to
share job openings with Facebook users, the company said.  -- Editors: Reed Stevenson, Lisa Rapaport  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  