-- Tribune Cross Ownership to Be Cleared in FCC Proposal
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-11-14T22:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/fcc-chairman-seeks-vote-easing-media-ownership-rule-agency-says.html
The Federal Communications
Commission is set to vote on relaxing media-ownership rules and
ratifying Tribune Co.’s common control of television stations
and newspapers in cities including New York and  Chicago , a final
step the company needs to emerge from bankruptcy.  FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski today asked for a vote to
“streamline and modernize” media ownership rules, Tammy Sun,
an agency spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The proposals include allowing common ownership of a daily
newspaper and a TV station in the 20 biggest U.S. cities,
according to two officials briefed on the plan. In a separate
proposal, Genachowski asked the agency to let Tribune keep its
five TV-newspaper combinations, two officials said.  Tribune holds its television stations and newspapers under
exceptions to a 1975 rule, and is asking the FCC to approve
license transfers from the old company to the new entity as it
emerges from bankruptcy proceedings. The combinations are in
Chicago -- where Tribune publishes its namesake newspaper and
opened TV station WGN in 1948 -- as well as New York, Los
Angeles, South Florida and Hartford,  Connecticut .  Genachowski’s proposed revisions to the broader rule would
partially grant relief that newspapers have sought as they lose
readers to the Web and advertising revenue declines. The agency
officials spoke on condition they not be identified because the
matter hasn’t been made public.  Commission Vote  The five-member commission, with three Democrats including
Genachowski and two Republicans, could vote on the chairman’s
proposal for broad cross-ownership relief in coming days without
meeting in public. The Tribune waivers would take effect Nov. 16
as long as no commissioner objects, and no vote is needed, Sun
said.  Gary Weitman, a Tribune spokesman, in an e-mail declined to
comment. Jeremy Gaines, a spokesman for Gannett Co., which
 publishes  82 daily U.S. newspapers and operates 23 TV stations,
in an e-mail said “an updated view” of the market “would
result in the relaxation of many of these rules.”  Media companies have said allowing cross-ownership will
help them provide more local news at lower cost by combining
broadcast and newspaper staffs, and that restrictions intended
to preserve a diversity of voices don’t make sense in an era
when the Internet ensures wide-ranging debate.  Opponents have said metropolitan newspapers and TV stations
remain important sources of information, and consolidation will
reduce the information reaching residents.  Genachowski advanced his proposal in preliminary form last
year.  Media Ownership  The rules package is the FCC’s third effort in a decade to
rewrite media ownership rules in response to a directive from
Congress to periodically assess restrictions.  Last year, a federal appeals court rejected the FCC’s 2007
attempt, saying the agency didn’t provide adequate notice it
intended to change the rules. A revision adopted in 2003 was
blocked by a U.S. court that said the FCC didn’t justify its
method for determining which markets could be eligible for
cross-ownership.  The cross-ownership rule undermines the FCC’s goal of
preserving strong journalism by keeping newspapers from luring
investment by broadcasters, the Newspaper Association of America
said in an FCC filing. The trade group, with members  including 
the  New York Times Co. (NYT) , Gannett and the  Washington Post Co. (WPO) ,
favors repealing the rule.  Business Model  The Internet has brought a diversity of voices to
communities as it has upended the traditional news industry
business model, the newspaper association said.  Local reporting has lagged as paid daily newspaper
circulation has diminished to World War II-era levels, and
newspaper advertising revenue dropped 47 percent from 2005 to
2009, said the Arlington, Virginia-based newspaper association.  The FCC should lift restrictions on cost-sharing among
local TV stations, and ease its prohibition on common ownership
of two TV stations in markets outside the 50 largest cities, the
National Association of Broadcasters said in a filing.  CBS Corp. (CBS) , Clear Channel Communications Inc., Gannett,
 Media General Inc. (MEG)  and Cox Enterprises Inc. joined the court
challenge to the 2007 FCC order and argued the agency should
have further relaxed the cross-ownership rule.  Chicago-based Tribune filed for bankruptcy in December
2008, one year after a buyout led by real-estate billionaire Sam Zell. It owes creditors about $13 billion. The company is valued
at more than $7 billion, Tribune said in court papers.  Tribune officials have said the company will be able to
leave bankruptcy this year if the FCC approves the
reorganization plan and the license transfers.  The case is Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  