-- Meningitis Deaths Prompt FDA to Seek Pharmacy Oversight
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-11-14T18:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/fda-seeks-power-over-specialty-pharmacies-after-meningitis-cases.html
The top U.S. drug regulator asked
Congress for more authority over pharmacies following the deadly
meningitis outbreak, a request met with resistance by lawmakers
who said existing oversight hasn’t been used to the fullest.  The outbreak that has led to 438 infections, including 32
deaths, can be blamed in part on a patchwork of state
regulations for compounding pharmacies that restrained federal
officials from intervening, Food and Drug Administration
Commissioner Margaret Hamburg told members of a House
subcommittee in  Washington  today. She asked for greater federal
power to inspect the pharmacies and test their medicines.  “We ought to work on using the authority that we have as
opposed to getting additional authority at the federal level,”
Representative Joe Barton, a Texas Republican, responded.  Hamburg’s characterization of her current authority as
complex and her insistence that the FDA is held back by law from
overseeing such specialty pharmacy operations, led to visible
frustration by Barton and other lawmakers. They questioned
whether the FDA could have shut down the pharmacy at the center
of this year’s meningitis outbreak, New England Compounding
Pharmacy Inc., based on incidents dating as far back as 2002.  “We’re not buying it, Dr. Hamburg,” said Representative
Michael Burgess, also a Texas Republican, during the hearing of
the House Energy and Commerce oversight subcommittee. “We’re
just not buying it.”  2006 Letter  Lawmakers cited an FDA  warning letter  to New England
Compounding Pharmacy, known as NECC, in 2006 in which the agency
said it could shut down the business if the pharmacy failed to
correct business practices that involved copying certain drugs
without permission.  In addition, inspection reports show that the risk of
illness from drugs produced at NECC was known by the FDA as
early as 2002. The pharmacy suspended operations on Oct. 3 of
this year and recalled 17,676 doses of the pain-killing steroid
methylprednisolone acetate after regulators determined that
tainted vials of the therapy were responsible for fungal
meningitis infections in  19 states .  Representative John Dingell, a Michigan Democrat, said both
the FDA and officials in  Massachusetts , where NECC is based in
Framingham, “dropped the ball.”  Hamburg confirmed to lawmakers that the FDA is pursuing a
criminal investigation into NECC. The Justice Department also is
investigating the company.  Should Register  Hamburg argued that compounding pharmacies should face
increased oversight based on their size. Compounders that mix
drugs on a large scale in anticipation of prescriptions, rather
than adhering to the traditional role of responding to
individual doctor’s orders, should register with the FDA,
Hamburg said in  prepared remarks  for the hearing.  Representative Tim Murphy, a Pennsylvania Republican,
reminded Hamburg that Massachusetts had “cleaned house”
recently and gotten rid of pharmacy officials who hadn’t done
their job and investigated complaints from  Colorado  that NECC
was acting like a manufacturer.  Massachusetts regulators have moved to permanently revoke
the license of the pharmacy, citing business practices that may
have exceeded the scale and scope than is typically allowed.  “Why did so many medical providers purchase this product
from unregulated or poorly regulated sources?” Joyce J.
Lovelace, the widow of a meningitis victim,  asked lawmakers  at
the hearing. “Don’t just investigate. Instead, legislate and
regulate.”  Cadden Appears  NECC co-owner Barry Cadden, who appeared today, declined to
answer questions from lawmakers, citing his constitutional
rights. The Senate’s health committee plans a  hearing  tomorrow
on compounding pharmacies that will feature representatives of
the drug industry, as well as Hamburg.  The FDA plans to hold a meeting Dec. 19 with state
officials to determine how to best regulate compounding
pharmacies, Hamburg said during the hearing.  Hamburg suggested traditional compounding pharmacies stay
largely under state control with the FDA being able to have more
inspection authority. “Non-traditional” compounders, such as
those that mix sterile products like the injectables NECC made,
should have to register with the FDA.  Copies of FDA approved drugs, complex dosage forms such as
extended release products and most biologics, which are made
from living organisms shouldn’t be compounded, Hamburg said,
with the exception that the FDA may allow copies to be mixed
when there is a shortage.  Stunned, Angered  The latest meningitis outbreak occurred even as FDA
inspection records from 2002 showed that NECC may not have met
standards for sterility then, and that a hospital in Rochester,
New York, at the time linked NECC’s methylprednisolone acetate
to meningitis-like symptoms in two patients.  “I was stunned and angered to learn that an inspection of
the NECC by the FDA and the Mass Board over 10 years ago
identified contamination in the very same drug at issue in the
current outbreak,” said Representative Fred Upton, a Michigan
Republican and chairman of the House Energy and Commerce
Committee. “Ten years later, we are in the midst of an
unthinkable, worst-case scenario.”  Meningitis is an inflammation of the lining of the brain
and spinal cord. The government has said about 14,000 people
received shots of the NECC steroid, which is injected into the
spinal cavity to relieve neck and back pain.  Massachusetts Missteps  The FDA is asking for strengthened authority as additional
missteps by Massachusetts officials were revealed in prepared
remarks from Lauren Smith, interim commissioner of the state’s
Department of Public Health.  Cadden served on a task force convened by the Massachusetts
Board of Registration in Pharmacy in 2002 to study oversight of
compounding pharmacies. While the group met for about two years,
it appears never to have made any recommendations, Smith said.  In addition, the pharmacy board’s executive director and
counsel learned in April 2006 that the executives at the auditor
hired to oversee the sterility operations of NECC after the
pharmacy was flagged for safety violations had been convicted of
federal crimes for defrauding the FDA.  They didn’t pass the information on to the pharmacy board,
Smith said, and the board told Cadden two months later NECC had
satisfactorily completed the terms and conditions of a consent
agreement.  Smith said she supported legislation that gave the FDA more
power over compounding pharmacies, though she didn’t comment
specifically on Hamburg’s proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  