-- France Should Stay in NATO Command, Former Minister Says
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-11-14T13:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/france-should-stay-in-nato-command-former-minister-says.html
France  should remain part of NATO’s
integrated military command and push for greater influence
within the 28-nation alliance, a former foreign minister
recommended in a report.  In a statement, President Francois Hollande said he
“largely approves” the conclusions of the report by Hubert Vedrine, who was foreign minister from 1997 to 2002 in a
previous Socialist government.  Hollande, shortly after his election six months ago, asked
Vedrine to study the consequences of the decision of his
predecessor, Nicolas Sarkozy, to return France to the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization’s integrated command in 2009 after
a 43-year absence. Sarkozy’s decision was criticized at the time
by the Socialist Party, which said it would impinge on France’s
independence.  “A (re)exit from the integrated command is not an
option,” Vedrine wrote in the report, which is posted on
Hollande’s  website . “It wouldn’t be understood by anybody in
the U.S., nor in  Europe , and would give France no new influence,
quite the opposite.” It noted that no other European country
followed the French line after 1966, when President Charles De Gaulle quit the integrated command and expelled foreign troops
from France after a dispute over command of nuclear weapons.  France always remained a member of NATO’s political
structure.  France should be “vigilant and demanding” in terms of
shaping the alliance’s future to ensure that NATO remains a
primarily military alliance focused on the “euro-Atlantic
zone,” Vedrine wrote. “NATO was not born to be the gendarme of
the world.”  France should ask for a greater role for European defense
industries within the alliance, and on a parallel track push for
greater defense cooperation between European countries, the
report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  