-- Speculators Find Loopholes in French Transaction Tax
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-11-15T13:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/french-transaction-tax-misses-mark-as-speculators-find-loopholes.html
As  France  begins collecting its
financial-transactions tax this month, it is becoming evident
that President  Francois Hollande ’s levy is hitting all but the
people it was aimed at: speculators.  Hollande, who called finance his “main adversary” during
his election campaign, pushed through in August a 0.2 percent
transaction tax on share purchases, making France the first and
only country so far in Europe to have such a levy. Many
investors have been escaping the tax using so-called contracts
for difference, or CFDs, offered by prime brokers that let them
bet on a stock’s gain or loss without owning the shares.  “The target was supposed to be finance with a capital F,
which is sort of a black box,” said Jacques Porta, who helps
manage $627 million at Ofi Patrimoine in Paris. “Instead, we
are punishing small investors who aren’t to blame and already
are frightened off by losses in the market.”  On Nov. 1, the state started collecting the levy on the
purchase of 109 French stocks with market values of more than 1
billion euros ($1.2 billion), including  Sanofi SA (SAN)  and  Vivendi
SA. (VIV)  While the government expects the tax to add 530 million
euros to its budget in 2012 and  1.6 billion euros  next year, the
finance ministry says it’s too early to say if these estimates
are realistic.  The ministry concurred with traders’ and analysts’
assessment that market players will use a range of derivatives
to skirt the tax, leaving small investors bearing the burden.  ‘Modest’ Blow  Hollande himself this week conceded that the tax was only a
“ modest ” blow to the finance sector.  His other plan to fight “speculators” includes splitting
French banks’ retail and investment activities and increasing
taxes on lenders’ salaries and speculative operations. A bank
bill will be unveiled on Dec. 19, Hollande said last week.  The French  finance ministry  official charged with crafting
the transaction-tax bill said it was impossible to impose a levy
on CFDs, or on any derivative not related to a territory. He
cannot be named according to government ground rules.  While the tax’s impact on curbing speculation is limited,
it has helped Hollande gain political capital with his base and
burnished his Socialist credentials.  “This tax sends a strong political message, even if it’s
too early to evaluate its impact on markets,” Gerard Rameix,
the head of France’s independent  Market Authority Regulator ,
said in an interview.  Rameix says the tax’s efficiency will improve if its basis
is “broadened technically and geographically,” with more than
one country imposing it and more products covered.  Counterproductive Tax  The tax needs to be accepted internationally for it to be
effective and carry a bite, said Matthieu Giuliani, a  fund
manager  at Banque Palatine SA in Paris, which oversees $5.1
billion.  “The idea isn’t bad,” he said. “Governments have been
raising taxes in general so why should the financial community
be sheltered? But it must be done on an international level. If
just a few countries do it, volumes there will decline more than
the tax itself, making the tax counterproductive.”  The volume of shares changing hands in  CAC 40 (CAC)  Index
companies was 44 percent lower than the 30-day average as of
2:16 p.m. Paris time today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The CAC 40 declined 0.5 percent to 3,383.4, on course
for the lowest close in a month.  Netherlands, Germany  Hollande said he expects 11 other European countries to
join France in imposing the tax, including The Netherlands,
 Germany ,  Belgium ,  Portugal ,  Slovenia ,  Austria ,  Greece ,  Italy  and
 Spain . These nations may sign off on the tax as soon as December
at the EU Council meeting and start imposing it early next year,
Hollande said at a press conference Nov. 13.  The U.K., home to  Europe ’s biggest financial center, has a
 stamp duty  while opposing a transaction tax.  “The more international it is the better it is for the
economy,” Rameix said in a Bloomberg Television interview. The
French law was drawn to be “quick and simple, and to avoid too
much market trouble,” he said. The European version may look
different, he said, calling on Hollande and other countries to
include all derivatives to make the tax more effective.  “If we tax one financial product, we have to tax all of
them,” said Pierre-Alexis Dumont, a fund manager at Groupama
Asset Management in Paris. The tax currently “makes the market
less stable,” he said. “CFDs carry credit risk.”  The new tax is being applied to transactions resulting in
“a transfer of property” of companies trading in Paris,
regardless of where the buyer or seller is based. The tax has
begun to skew investment plans, Dumont said.  Levy Doubled  “We’re limiting our buying and selling orders to keep down
our clients’ costs,” he said. “Taxation enters into our
investment decisions.”  The levy, first mooted at  0.1 percent  by former President
 Nicolas Sarkozy , was doubled by Hollande, who is seeking to keep
his pledge to cut the French  budget deficit  to 4.5 percent of
gross domestic product this year and 3 percent in 2013.  The government estimates the doubling will cut the volume
of stock purchases to 800 billion euros from 1.05 trillion euros
with a 0.1 percent levy and 1.3 trillion euros with no
transaction tax.  The tax collection is being done by  Euroclear France , a
unit of Europe’s largest trade-settlement group.  France’s new tax will be applied with a delay on American
Depository Receipts, or ADRs. The certificates that allow
investors to trade foreign stocks like domestic shares will only
be taxed starting Dec. 1, the Budget Ministry said. ADRs are
issued by U.S. banks and make trading easier by eliminating
currency exchanges or the need to trade on a foreign exchange.
How the tax will be imposed on ADRs wasn’t immediately clear.  The loopholes and the absence of a transaction tax in other
countries “penalizes the French market and we don’t need
that,” Groupama’s Dumont said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet@bloomberg.net ;
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  