-- FTC Said to Ready to Back Hertz-Dollar Thrifty Deal
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-11-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/ftc-said-to-back-hertz-dollar-thrifty-deal-with-conditions.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is
prepared to approve  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ) ’s $2.6 billion
acquisition of  Dollar Thrifty  Automotive Group Inc. after the
company agreed to shed more airport locations than it initially
offered, four people familiar with the deal said.  To win antitrust clearance, Hertz said it would divest
about 15 additional airport outlets including at Cleveland and
 Detroit , said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the talks aren’t public. It isn’t known whether the agency’s
commissioners have taken a final vote, two of the people said.  A draft statement announcing the approval is being
circulated among the agency’s commissioners, one of the people
said. Cecelia Prewett, a spokeswoman for the FTC, declined to
comment on progress of the agency’s antitrust review of the
deal.  Once completed, the transaction would bolster Hertz’s
position as the No. 2 player in the U.S. rental-car market,
enabling it to better compete with the industry leader,
Enterprise Holdings Inc.  The Dollar Thrifty acquisition, led by Chief Executive
Officer Mark Frissora, may be the last combination of major U.S.
car rental companies that can win regulatory approval.  Market Share  Together, Hertz, Enterprise Rent-A-Car and  Avis Budget
Group Inc. (CAR)  control about 75 percent of car rentals, with Dollar
Thrifty holding 5 percent, according to a February report from
IBISWorld. No other competitor has more than 1 percent of the
$30.5 billion market in the U.S. this year, according to
IBISWorld, the Santa Monica, California-based industry
researcher.  Hertz, with 8,750 outlets worldwide, has more than 3,900
U.S. locations, while Dollar Thrifty has about 280 corporate-
owned outlets in the U.S. and  Canada .  The $87.50-a-share offer represents an 8 percent premium to
Dollar Thrifty’s closing price of  $81 (DTG)  on Aug. 24. The price is
more than twice the $41-a-share Hertz offered in April 2010.  Formal Bid  Hertz began its pursuit of Dollar Thrifty in April 2007 and
made a formal bid in 2010 of about $1.2 billion that  Dollar
Thrifty shareholders  rejected. Park Ridge, New Jersey-based
Hertz made another offer last year that it later withdrew,
citing market conditions.  Hertz agreed to sell its Advantage brand to  Franchise
Services of North America Inc . and  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ’s
Macquarie Capital. The purchase price was $16 million, one
person with knowledge of the situation has said. The sale is
dependent upon Hertz completing the acquisition of Tulsa,
Oklahoma-based Dollar Thrifty.  Franchise Services, which operates the U-Save brand, is run
by Co-Chief Executive Officer Sanford Miller, the CEO of Budget
Group Inc. from 1997 to 2004.  Richard Broome, a Hertz spokesman, declined to comment.  Hertz and Dollar Thrifty said the transaction is a two-step
process starting with a cash tender offer for all outstanding
shares of Dollar Thrifty followed by a cash merger to acquire
any remaining shares of common stock.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at   sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 