-- Gas Prices Doomed to Stay Low as Producers Pump Faster
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p ,   R e b e c c a   P e n t y   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-11-14T11:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/gas-prices-doomed-to-stay-low-as-producers-pump-faster.html
Gas producers in  North America 
including  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  are killing their commodity’s
biggest rally in 10 months by opening more wells, putting the
U.S. on track to have record gas supplies this year.  After a 44 percent price rise beginning Sept. 10, the fuel
began a slide Oct. 30, falling 9.2 percent by Nov. 12 as
stockpiles swelled to an all-time high this month, valued at
about $15 billion using the current spot price. Gas production
in 2013 is expected to match this year’s record level, the U.S.
Energy Information Administration  forecast  this month.  The rebound stalled as Chesapeake, the second-biggest U.S.
producer, and rivals added output in areas such as the Marcellus
Shale in  Pennsylvania . ConocoPhillips and  Encana Corp. (ECA)  brought
back curtailed output. Some producers that struggled when the
fuel hit a 10-year low in April are opening new wells, dashing
hopes by others that a depressed rig count would boost prices.  “Unfortunately all the players in this game don’t read by
the same Bible,” said  Peter Howard , chief executive officer of
the Canadian Energy Research Institute in Calgary. Producers
need to keep gas wells shut and “force the price up,” he said.  The U.S. is on a path to surpass  Russia  by 2015 as the
world’s top producer of fuel used for heating, power generation
and chemicals, the  International Energy Agency  said this week.  Pumping More  Although U.S. prices were hovering for much of the year at
about a third of their 2008 level, companies that rely primarily
on gas sales to cover costs such as interest on debt began
pumping more. Lower prices limit companies’  cash flow  and can
lead to asset sales and spending cuts.  “As the gas price goes down, it’s almost like they need to
produce twice as much to keep their cash flow where it was,”
said Edward Kallio, director of gas consulting at  Ziff Energy
Group  in Calgary. “That’s the bind producers that don’t have
diversity in their portfolio are in.”  Gas companies had pinned some of their hopes for higher
prices on the sliding number of new drilling rigs. Active U.S.
gas rigs had plunged 49 percent this year, according to  Baker
Hughes Inc. (BHI)  The count was 413, the company said Nov. 9, compared
with 809 in a Dec. 30 report. It was the lowest U.S. gas rig
count since June 1999.  Futures for delivery this December settled at $3.739 per
million British thermal units yesterday and are heading higher,
as traders and buyers are expecting the rally to continue after
forecasts for colder weather: The futures are more than $3.80 in
all 12 months of next year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Overstating Futures  The price rises to more than $3.90 in July and more than $4
in November and December of 2013.  “We’re at least 50 cents per million Btu overstated for
the forward strip for next year,” Kallio said. “There’s a lot
of gas available below that price. The forward strip is way too
optimistic for next year and probably into the year after.”  The recent rise in gas prices could mean that drilling re-
starts in some basins, while not in others, said  Kent Moors , a
professor at Duquesne University in Pittsburgh who edits Oil and
Energy Investor, a newsletter.  “If we are at $3.70, virtually every well coming in in the
Marcellus is profitable, Moors said. “It won’t be in the
Barnett, it won’t be in the Haynesville.”  Among analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, the average price for
2013 is $3.58 per million British thermal units. The analysts’
average is at less than $5 through 2016.  Restoring Production  Encana idled production when gas prices in  New York  dropped
to less than $2.50, and resumed production at some wells in
August. The company, based in Calgary, said on Oct. 24 that
volumes were “largely restored.”  At Houston-based  ConocoPhillips (COP) , gas output in the third
quarter from the lower 48 U.S. states rose 3.5 percent from the
second quarter. The company had idled gas wells equivalent to a
range of 10,000 to 12,000 barrels of oil a day.  “We don’t have any significant volume shut in at all
now,” Matthew Fox, an executive vice president at
ConocoPhillips, said during an Oct. 25 conference call. “Some
of that increase is gas coming back online, but the majority of
it is increases in associated gas production with our liquids-
rich plays.”  As oil is extracted from dense rock formations, gas
produced alongside the crude can enter the market. Companies
that drill for petroleum liquids such as propane, ethane and
butane also bring more gas online.  Getting Gassier  “In the Bakken, it’s about one million cubic feet a day of
gas for 1,000 barrels of oil, a little over one to one,” Kallio
said. “As you blow through the oil, you get gassier.”  The supply could grow, too, if producers capture and sell
more of the associated gas from unconventional fields. About 29
percent of the gas produced in North Dakota’s Bakken field is
flared because there aren’t enough pipelines to transport it,
according to the  North Dakota Industrial Commission .  Some of the biggest surges in U.S. gas output are in the
Marcellus. The rise in production and the backlog of wells
coming online as pipelines are built means gas prices could
hover as low as $3 per million Btus for parts of next year, said
Howard of the Canadian Energy Research Institute.  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  of The Woodlands,  Texas , said
Marcellus gas sales volumes were 333 million cubic feet a day in
the third quarter, about 6 percent higher than in the second
quarter. The performance was stronger the company expected,
particularly in wells owned with Chesapeake.  Surprisingly Productive  “We’ve been surprised by just how productive Chesapeake’s
been,” Anadarko Chief Executive Officer Al Walker said during
an Oct. 30 conference call. “We see them doing things, frankly,
that are well outside of what we anticipated.”  Chesapeake, based in  Oklahoma City , said Nov. 1 that third-
quarter gas production climbed to 302 billion cubic feet, or 9.8
percent more than in the second quarter.  Chesapeake’s shares gained 1.5 percent in the third
quarter, while Anadarko rose 5.6 percent in the period, as the
Russell Midcap Energy Index climbed 11 percent.  At  Southwestern Energy Co. (SWN) , a Houston-based company whose
production is nearly all gas, production in the third quarter
rose 5 percent from the second quarter.  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) , the Calgary-based producer, will cut
spending in the face of lower prices, Chief Executive Officer
Hal Kvisle said in an Oct. 30 telephone interview.  “This is a time where big North American producers need to
batten down the hatches and let supply and demand come back into
balance,” he said.  Absorbing Supply  Rising demand from power generators and other consumers
will be able to absorb gas production in 2013, although the
balance could be upset by unexpected weather, said  Scott Hanold ,
an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in  Minneapolis .  “The weather by itself can do that,” by suppressing the
need for gas, Hanold said in an interview.  The increase in gas-fired electric generation, which helped
push up prices during the summer, may not last, said Brian Watson, director of research for Steelpath, which invests in
pipeline companies. Utility companies will be able to switch
back to coal if gas prices climb too high, he said.  Even though many companies have stopped drilling for so-
called dry gas, production may not fall because of the backlog
of wells that have been drilled and await completion, Raoul LeBlanc, senior director of North American onshore energy at PFC
Energy in Houston, said in an interview.  Production in the Haynesville Shale in  Louisiana  has stayed
flat, even though the rig count has fallen to 17 from a high of
105 a year ago, LeBlanc said, citing PFC’s internal estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  