-- Gasoline Advances on Shut Refinery and Stronger Economic Data
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-11-14T20:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/gasoline-gains-as-plants-remain-shut-wholesale-prices-decline.html
Gasoline advanced as a  New Jersey 
refinery remained shut since  Hurricane Sandy ’s Oct. 29 landfall
and on speculation that  U.S. economy  is improving and fuel
demand may increase.  Futures rose as Phillips 66’s 238,000-barrel-a-day Bayway
plant is closed. The U.S. producer price index fell 0.2 percent
in October, Labor Department figures showed. Retail  sales 
declined in October while September sales were revised upward,
according to Commerce Department figures. Prices widened gains
after Israel killed a Hamas leader in an air strike.  “We had quite a bit of decent economic data coming out the
last few weeks and then the market did get a pop from the
geopolitical headlines,” said Amrita Sen, chief oil market
strategist at Energy Aspects Ltd., a research consultant in
 London .  Gasoline for December delivery rose 2.52 cents, or 1
percent, to settle at $2.679 a gallon on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange, the first gain in three days.  Prices touched $2.7096 after the report that the death of
the leader of Hamas’s militant wing, Ahmed al-Jabara, occurred
as Israel carried out a series of air strikes in the  Gaza Strip 
today. Israel said it was ready to use ground troops if needed
to end attacks on its citizens.  Retail Sales  October U.S.  retail sales  fell 0.3 percent, the first drop
in four months, Commerce Department data show. The drop followed
a 1.3 percent rise in September. The department said it was able
to collect data from the areas affected by Sandy, even as it
couldn’t quantify its impact.  Excluding volatile food and energy, the so-called core
measure decreased 0.2 percent, the first drop since November
2010, Labor Department data show.  Hess Corp. (HES)  said today it’s restarting the 70,000-barrel-a-
day  Port Reading , New Jersey, refinery and expects it to be
producing fuel by the end of the week. As much as 94 percent of
East Coast capacity was affected by Sandy, which also forced the
shutdown of terminals around New York Harbor and the main
pipeline to the region from Gulf Coast refineries.  Motiva Enterprises LLC’s 255,000-barrel-a-day refinery in
Convent,  Louisiana , lost power yesterday, triggering units to
shut down, according to a regulatory filing. The refinery was
shut after the power loss, a person familiar with operations
said.  “That is lending some support to the market,” said
 Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc., an energy
advisory company in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “You still have to
send those barrels up to the East Coast. The Hamas leader killed
is also getting a lot of chatter.”  Gasoline Inventories  U.S. gasoline  inventories  probably fell 1 million barrels
last week, according to the median estimate of 10 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. The Energy Department will report last week’s
inventories tomorrow, a day later than usual because of the Nov.
12 Veterans Day federal holiday.  The average nationwide cost for  regular gasoline  climbed
0.3 cent to $3.443 a gallon, AAA said today on its website. It
was the second consecutive increase. The pump price reached a
2012 high of $3.936 on April 4.  December-delivery heating oil rose 2.74 cents, or 0.9
percent, to settle at $2.9882 a gallon on the exchange. Supplies
of distillates, including diesel and heating oil,  fell 950,000
barrels last week, according to the survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  