-- Gaza Strike Spurs Biggest Drop in Three Months: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-11-15T08:58:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/gaza-strike-spurs-biggest-drop-in-three-months-israel-overnight.html
Israeli stocks traded in  New York 
tumbled the most in three months and  Mellanox Technologies
Ltd. (MLNX) ’s U.S.-listed shares sank as the conflict in the  Gaza Strip 
escalated.  The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the most traded
Israeli companies in New York retreated the most since Aug. 13,
losing 2.1 percent to 82.24. Mellanox, the Yokneam Elit, Israel-
based maker of products used to transfer and store data, plunged
3.9 percent, widening its  discount  to its Israeli-traded shares
to $2.  Israeli jets struck the Gaza Strip yesterday, killing the
leader of Hamas’s military wing as the army said it called up
reserves and pledged the use of ground troops if required to end
attacks on its citizens. Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said
in a televised address that “if there is need, the Israeli
military is ready to broaden the operation.” In the U.S.,
 stocks  fell for a second day on concern President  Barack Obama 
won’t be able to reach a budget-deficit reduction deal.  Investors are fearing “the possibility of this escalating
into a ground operation that can be extended and have
repercussions not only for human life but for the overall
economy,” Chaim Fromowitz, executive vice president of Bank
Leumi USA, a unit of  Israel ’s largest lender, said by phone from
New York. “The uncertainty in the market is already high with
concerns about U.S. finances, so when you have two trends like
this coming together it has a compounded, severe effect.”  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  and Partner Communications Co., the
nation’s largest mobile-phone companies, led declines in the
Bloomberg Israel-U.S. Index, dropping more than 5.9 percent.  ‘Clear Message’  The Tel Aviv benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  lost 0.9 percent to
1,178.00 at 10:14 a.m. in Israel, the lowest since Sept. 24.  The shekel gained 0.1 percent to 3.9676 a dollar after
sinking yesterday to the lowest level in two months. It was the
second-worst performer after the South African rand among 10
emerging-market currencies in Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa
tracked by Bloomberg yesterday.  The Israeli army said Ahmed al-Jabari was targeted by a
“surgical strike” and identified him as a senior figure “who
served in the upper echelon of the Hamas command and was
directly responsible for executing terror attacks,” according
to an e-mailed statement.  “Today we delivered a clear message to Hamas and other
terrorist groups,” Netanyahu said yesterday in a televised
address.  The Israeli strikes follow a barrage of more than 115
rockets from Gaza into Israel this week, adding to a total of
about 14,000 missiles fired from the territory in the past 11
years, according to the Israeli Defense Ministry.  ‘Move Around’  Mellanox  tumbled  to $83.49 taking the U.S. shares’ discount
to the largest since Oct. 19, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Tel Aviv shares dropped 3.1 percent today to
329.1 shekels, or the equivalent of $82.92.  “These shares can move around when there’s border
tension,” Brian Freed, an analyst at Wunderlich Securities Inc.
who has a buy rating on the shares, said by phone from Denver
yesterday. Mellanox “was off because of what happened in Gaza
overnight,” Freed said.  Cellcom, Israel’s largest mobile phone operator, retreated
5.9 percent to $8.55. The stock of the Netanya, Israel-based
company slid 3.2 percent to 34.6 shekels today in Tel Aviv, or
the equivalent of $8.72.  Partner (PTNR) , the second-largest carrier,
plunged 6 percent to $5.52. The Tel Aviv shares of the Rosh
Ha’Ayin, Israel-based provider lost 1.5 percent to 22.16
shekels, or the equivalent of $5.59.  Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (TSEM) , the Migdal Haemek, Israel-based
maker of customized computer chips, declined 3.2 percent to
$7.30. The shares today in Tel Aviv dropped 4.3 percent to 28.32
shekels, or the equivalent of $7.14.  The semiconductor company today reported third-quarter
revenue dropped 12 percent to $155 million, its first quarterly
decline since 2005. The mean estimate of three analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg was $157 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  