-- Gazprom Gains BASF Gas Traders in Swap for Russian Output
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-11-14T15:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/gazprom-gains-basf-gas-trading-units-in-swap-for-russia-deposits.html
OAO Gazprom (OGZD)  plans to take over  BASF
SE (BAS) ’s natural gas trading and storage in Europe and gain North
Sea assets as the Russian export monopoly seeks to defend its
share of the market against mounting competition.  Under a swap deal signed today, Gazprom will gain full
ownership of trading ventures now held equally with BASF’s
Wintershall AG unit, including storage in Germany and  Austria ,
the companies said. BASF will add stakes in Siberian projects as
it expands its oil and gas production to bolster the world’s
largest chemical business.  Gazprom, supplier of about a quarter of Europe’s gas, has
agreed to price discounts this year to hold onto customers as
the economic downturn, increasing global liquefied natural gas
capacity and the growing influence of the spot market crimped
demand. In September, the European Commission started probing
its pricing and supply policies in eastern and central Europe.  “Gazprom appears to be playing a long-term game of
accepting lower gas prices now but agreeing asset swaps for
increasing its engagement and influence in European gas
markets,”  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said in a research note. “BASF may be
taking the view that selling Wingas is a price worth paying to
help facilitate lower gas and energy costs now.”  20 Years  BASF uses petroleum-based feedstock to produce chemicals,
so having its own production may help the company hedge against
price growth and support earnings when demand for chemicals
slumps. BASF, which has worked with Gazprom for more than 20
years, may pump more than half its oil and gas in Russia, the
world’s biggest producer of the fuels, according to Bloomberg
calculations.  Gazprom will get half of Wintershall Noordzee BV, which
operates projects in the southern waters of the North Sea, as
well as full control of the Wingas, WIEH and WIEE trading units
and storage, BASF said in a regulatory filing. The assets
contributed 8.6 billion euros ($11 billion), or 12 percent of
total  sales  for the Ludwigshafen, Germany-based company in 2011.  Wintershall will get 25 percent plus one share in blocks 4
and 5 of the Achimov formation in the Urengoy field in Siberia
and has an option to raise its stake to 50 percent.  ‘Equal Value’  The assets are of “equal value,” Anna Bungarten, a
spokeswoman for Kassel-based Wintershall, said by e-mail. She
declined to disclose any numbers, citing an agreement with
Gazprom. Wingas holds about 20 percent of the German gas-supply
market and operates in  Belgium ,  Denmark ,  France , the U.K.,
Austria, the Netherlands and Czech Republic, according to its
website. WIEH supplies Gazprom’s gas to German customers, while
WIEE delivers the fuel to southeastern European countries.  The companies have been discussing a deal since March 2011
under a plan that didn’t include the trading businesses.  Subject to approval by “relevant” regulators, the deal
will be completed by the end of next year and financially
retroactive to April 1, 2013, BASF said. Alexei Kokin, an
analyst at UralSib Capital in Moscow, said by phone that he
questions whether German authorities will approve the deal.  Gazprom said last year the EU wanted to study documents
from a fully owned German trading unit and a Czech venture “to
assess the compliance of their activities with EU competition
rules.” Regulators had earlier seized documents from the
offices of Gazprom units and customers in Europe.  Nord Stream  The deal will add more than 2 billion cubic meters to
Gazprom’s storage capacity, supporting as much as 20 billion
cubic meters of additional flow through the Nord Stream pipeline
from Russia direct to  Germany , Graham Freedman, a senior analyst
for European gas and power at Wood Mackenzie in  London , said by
phone.  Expanded storage “will certainly help them to put more gas
to the pipeline,” Freedman said. Nord Stream last month opened
the second line to boost annual shipment capacity to 55 billion
cubic meters a year.  Wintershall is a partner in Nord Stream and at Gazprom’s
Yuzhno-Russkoye gas field, which is the main supply base for the
link. The BASF unit also works with Gazprom at a separate
Achimov gas project and on the planned South Stream pipeline.  Achimov blocks 4 and 5 hold 2.4 billion barrels of oil
equivalent, according to BASF’s statement. The blocks may
produce at least 8 billion cubic meters at plateau, with output
expected to start in 2016, according to the statement.  Cold Snaps  Wintershall may produce produce at least half its oil and
gas in  Russia , according to Bloomberg calculations based on the
company increasing its stake to 50 percent. The unit is set to
raise output to at least 160 million barrels of oil equivalent
by 2015, from 140 million barrels of oil equivalent this year,
BASF said.  BASF’s exit from trading is in line with its strategy to
expand oil and gas exploration through organic growth and
acquisitions, Chief Executive Officer Kurt Bock said in the
statement. Gaining stakes in Gazprom’s assets allows Wintershall
to boost production without the risk and expense of developing
prospects from scratch.  In Europe, Gazprom plans to use underground storage to
respond to surges in demand during cold snaps. The gas exporter
rejected requests from customers to raise supplies early this
year as winter temperatures dropped from Siberia to the U.K.  “For Gazprom, the most valuable part is storage,”
UralSib’s Kokin said. “It will help Gazprom meet its peak
demand in  Europe .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  