-- German Stocks Drop on Euro-Area Industrial Production
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-11-14T16:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/german-stocks-drop-on-euro-area-industrial-production.html
German stocks  dropped to its lowest
level in more than two months as reports showed euro-region
 industrial production  tumbled the most in more than three years
and U.S. retail sales trailed forecasts.  EON AG retreated 3.1 percent as brokerages including
Deutsche Bank AG and Bank of America Corp. lowered their
recommendations on  Germany ’s largest utility.  Infineon
Technologies AG (IFX)  surged 5.9 percent after Europe’s second-biggest
semiconductor maker reported sales and operating profit that
topped analysts’ estimates.  The DAX slid 0.9 percent to 7,101.92 at the close in
 Frankfurt , its lowest level since Sept. 5. The equity benchmark
has dropped  3.7 percent  since the re-election of President
 Barack Obama  on Nov. 6 as investors’ attention turned to the so-
called U.S. fiscal cliff that will trigger automatic budget cuts
and tax increases unless Congress reaches a compromise. The
broader HDAX Index also slipped 0.9 percent today.  “The risk of falling off the fiscal cliff continues to
weigh on sentiment, as no one is buying into weakness,” said
Witold Bahrke, a senior strategist at PFA Pension A/S in
Copenhagen where he helps oversee $55 billion. “Meanwhile,
 Spain  won’t request a bailout for another 11 days till after
local elections in Catalonia.”  The  DAX (DAX)  climbed less than 0.1 percent yesterday, erasing
declines in the final hour of trading amid speculation Spain
will soon seek a full bailout from the European Union.  European Economy  Euro-region industrial production declined 2.5 percent in
September, wider than the 2 percent slide that  economists had
forecast . Output in the 17-nation euro area increased a revised
0.9 percent in August, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today. In the U.K., a release from the  Office
for National Statistics  showed that the  unemployment rate 
dropped to 7.8 percent in September from 7.9 percent in the
three months through August.  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report showed retail
sales fell 0.3 percent in October. The median forecast of 83
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.2 percent drop.  EON slipped 3.1 percent to 14.19 euros as brokerages
including Deutsche Bank, Bank of America, Commerzbank AG, Exane
BNP Paribas and Societe Generale SA cut their  ratings  for the
utility. The shares tumbled the most in more than 20 years
yesterday after EON said its forecast of 3.2 billion euros ($4.1
billion) to 3.7 billion euros had become unachievable.  K+S Falls  K+S AG (SDF)  dropped 2.5 percent to 33.43 euros as Exane and HSBC
Holdings Plc reduced their share-price estimates to 31 euros and
50 euros, respectively.  Europe ’s largest potash maker said
yesterday that sales and profit in 2012 will only reach the
bottom of its targeted range as delayed Chinese and Indian
contracts restrained market prices for fertilizer.  Infineon jumped 5.9 percent to 5.55 euros. Operating profit
of 116 million euros in the three months ended Sept. 30 beat the
105 million-euro average of analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales slipped 1 percent to 982 million euros from the
previous three-month period, the Neubiberg, Germany-based
company said.  Analysts had predicted  revenue of 974 million
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  