-- GLP Ties Up With Funds to Buy 2.9 Billion Real of Brazil Assets
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-11-14T10:34:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/glp-ties-up-with-funds-to-buy-2-9-billion-real-of-brazil-assets.html
Global Logistic Properties Ltd. (GLP) , a
unit of Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund, will buy assets in
Brazil for 2.9 billion real ($1.4 billion) with its parent,
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and  China  Investment Corp.  The company, known as GLP and manages warehouses, will set
up two joint ventures with  Government of Singapore Investment
Corp. , the Canadian retirement fund and China’s sovereign fund
to purchase logistic facilities from Brazil’s Prosperitas, GLP
said in a statement through the stock exchange. GLP will act as
the asset manager of the acquired properties, 88 percent of
which will be located in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, according
to the statement.  GLP is expanding its assets to profit from rising
consumption and affluence in  Brazil  that is leading to increased
demand for distribution facilities. The two ventures will
together own 39 properties in the country that recorded an
average 4 percent growth in gross domestic product over the last
seven years, adding to its existing assets in China and  Japan ,
the company said.  Brazil is “an attractive market with strong fundamentals
and compelling opportunities for growth,” Chief Executive
Officer Ming Z. Mei said in the statement. “We remain mindful
of the global economic conditions, but are confident that our
unrivaled market presence in China, Japan and now Brazil
positions us well for future growth.”  China, Japan  With the acquisitions in Brazil, GLP’s assets will almost
triple to $7.2 billion from $2.6 billion and create additional
recurring cash flow streams in the form of income and dividends,
Jeffrey Schwartz, deputy chairman of GLP, said on a conference
call in  Singapore .  The first venture includes 34 properties and one project
under development, where GLP and CIC will each hold a 34 percent
stake, it said. The second has five development projects, which
will be jointly owned by GLP, Canada Pension and GIC, it said.  GLP has operations in seven locations in Japan with a
combined net asset value of $3.93 billion. It has properties in
29 cities in China with a net asset value of $3.65 billion as of
June 30, it said. In December last year, the company teamed up
with CIC to buy 15 Japanese warehouses for 122.6 billion yen
($1.5 billion) from LaSalle Investment Management.  GLP said earlier today it’s raising about 104.8 billion yen
through an initial public offering that is poised to be Japan’s
second-biggest this year.  Japan IPO  The company will sell 1.75 million shares in the sale and
seeks to list in  Tokyo  on Dec. 21, according to a document filed
with the country’s stock exchange. The final IPO price will be
set on Dec. 12, according to the document.  GLP said on Nov. 1 it intended to raise 209 billion yen
from selling 30 of its 68 Japanese logistic facilities to a real
estate investment trust that it will partly own and manage. The
REIT will be able to buy an additional three properties over the
next three years, and will be granted a “right of first look”
over the remaining 38 properties for a period of 10 years, the
company said at the time.  The company also said today its second-quarter profit
declined 3.1 percent to $194.5 million from $200.7 million.
Sales rose 25 percent to $172.9 million.  Shares of Global Logistic, or GLP, have surged 55 percent
this year, outperforming the 14 percent gain in the benchmark
Straits Times Index. The stock, which was halted for trading
today, closed at S$2.72 on Nov. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  