-- GM’s Chinese Partner Predicts Sales to Outpace Industry in 2013
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-14T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/gm-s-chinese-partner-predicts-sales-to-outpace-industry-in-2013.html
SAIC Motor Corp. (600104) , the Chinese
partner of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , said its
vehicle sales growth will outpace the industry in 2013, driven
by an improving economy and buyers shunning Japanese brands.  SAIC, which makes Buick and Chevrolet cars with GM, expects
sales to increase seven percent to eight percent next year,
faster than the five percent to seven percent growth for the
industry, according to President Chen Hong, citing projections
based on current conditions.  “The economy may improve next year and help vehicle sales
and production,” Chen, a delegate to the 18th Communist Party
Congress, said in an interview in Beijing yesterday. “Japanese
brands have been hit by recent events and some consumers may
switch to other brands. Other automakers have been building up
their brands to attract buyers.”  Dealerships have cut prices in China to clear inventories,
sending vehicle prices lower for a sixth consecutive month in
October, according to the nation’s top economic planner.
Japanese automakers from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to Nissan Motor Co.
have reported slumps in Chinese sales in the past two months
after a territorial dispute between the two countries triggered
nationwide protests and unleashed a consumer backlash.  “If you strip out the influence of Japanese brands losing
market share in China, SAIC might perform in line with the
market,”  Xu Minfeng, a Shanghai-based analyst at Central China
Securities Holdings, said by phone yesterday. “The company also
benefits from the technology and association with its foreign
partners.”  SAIC, which operates its own Roewe brand, also runs a
separate passenger-vehicle joint venture with Volkswagen, making
models including the Tiguan sport utility vehicle and the Skoda
Fabia.  Separately, Miao Wei,  China ’s minister for industry and
technology, said yesterday that a plan to fund vehicle purchases
in rural areas is under discussion.  Vehicle sales growth may pick up next year due to rising
replacement demand and exports, Miao told reporters after a
session of the Congress in Beijing.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  