-- Google’s Apple Envy Yields New Gadgets: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-11-14T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/google-s-apple-envy-yields-new-gadgets-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Google (GOOG)  isn’t the only software
company that wants to be a hardware company, but it may be the
one that’s trying the hardest. Three newly introduced, Google-
branded devices reveal, each in its own way, the depth of the
company’s Apple envy.  Nexus 4  Google uses the “Nexus” designation for flagship phones
and tablets built to showcase the purest version of its Android
operating system. That means no manufacturer-designed custom
user interface and no carrier-imposed apps linked to its own or
partners’ proprietary services.  The new Nexus 4 phone, made for Google by  Korea ’s  LG
Electronics (066570) , has a couple of other things going for it as well.
It runs “Jelly Bean,” the latest version of Android, which is
fast and fluid. The big 4.7-inch screen is beautiful, with sharp
images and deep, rich colors.  And, as far as these things go, it’s cheap: It starts at
$299 with no required carrier contract, so you can shop for
plans (from AT&T or  T-Mobile (DTE)  in the U.S.) independent of the
cost of the device itself.  By contrast, an unlocked base model iPhone 5 may cost $649
when it becomes available.  Stingy Storage  But there are significant downsides as well. For one thing,
the base model has a stingy eight gigabytes of storage, while
most high-end phones these days start at 16. (T-Mobile will
offer a 16 GB version for $199 -- but it comes with a two-year
contract.)  It also lacks support for the new 4G LTE networks being
deployed in the U.S. by  Verizon (VZ) , AT&T and  Sprint (S) , instead using
technology the carriers label “4G” that is significantly
slower.  And while I appreciated the curved look of the Nexus 4, I
didn’t much like its feel, primarily because of a scratchy seam
where the front glass is laid into the body. Although it wasn’t
as sleek, I preferred the  LG Optimus G  -- an Android phone from
 AT&T (T)  and Sprint with similar specs but without the “Nexus”
label.  Nexus 10  Android tablets have had a lot of trouble gaining traction
in the marketplace. The big exception is Google’s well-received
Nexus 7. (Both  Amazon.com (AMZN) ’s Kindle Fire HD and  Barnes & Noble (BKS) ’s
Nook HD are based on Android, but used heavily modified versions
that don’t run standard apps.)  The Samsung-made Nexus 10 has little in common with the
Nexus 7, which was manufactured by  Asus. (2357)  It has more in common
with the  Samsung (005930)  Galaxy Note 10.1 tablet, such as the twin
front-mounted stereo speakers.  But where I found the Galaxy Note dreadfully cheap-looking
and plasticky, the Nexus 10, with its gorgeous 2560-by-1600-
pixel 10.1-inch display and smooth, rubberized back, feels more
like a premium product. Battery life isn’t quite up to the iPad
standard, but it’s close. The tablet is also a bit thinner and
lighter.  Finally, the Nexus 10 is attractively priced, starting at
$399 for a 16-gigabyte, Wi-Fi-only version, which is $100
cheaper than its  Apple (AAPL)  rival.  Absent Apps  So what’s not to like? Principally, the same thing that’s
plagued most Android tablets: the lack of apps designed for
them.  While the Android universe has largely caught up with Apple
in overall numbers, the iPad has 275,000 apps designed
specifically for it. Most of what’s available for Android are
simply smartphone apps that, in many cases, look and feel
ridiculous on a big screen. (The website Ars Technica has
collected some particularly  egregious examples .)  It’s the chicken-and-egg problem Google hasn’t yet been
able to solve: There won’t be more tablet-optimized Android apps
until more people are using Android tablets, and people won’t
want Android tablets until there are more apps that take
advantage of them.  Chromebook  For a couple of years, Google has been trying to establish
its cloud-based Chrome operating system on laptop and desktop
computers as an alternative to  Microsoft (MSFT) ’s Windows and Apple’s
OS X.  With little to show for its efforts, the company and its
manufacturing partners have embarked on what feels like a last-
ditch effort to slash prices and reposition the Chromebook as a
secondary device in the home -- the fabled “recipe computer”
that can sit in the kitchen until someone wanders by and needs
quick Internet access.  And you know what? For that, the new $249 Samsung-made
Chromebook isn’t bad. At 2.4 pounds and only .7 of an inch
thick, it’s unobtrusive, yet opens up to an 11.6 inch screen,
full keyboard and webcam for video calling.  I’m not a big fan of the Chromebook as a productivity tool;
it’s just too dependent on having online access at all times.
But it may be useful for a fixed locale where you sometimes need
to jump online and don’t always have a tablet handy. And for
those who don’t think the convenience is worth $249,  Acer (2353)  has
just announced a somewhat bulkier Chromebook at an even lower
price: $199.  None of these products is made by Motorola, the
manufacturer Google now owns, so maybe the company wants to
reassure its partners that it still values their longstanding
relationships.  Or maybe Google is planning cooler things than what we’ve
seen so far.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Jason Harper on  cars  and Lance
Esplund on  art .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 