-- GrainCorp Open to Proposals After A$2.7 Billion ADM Rebuff
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-11-15T05:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/graincorp-says-adm-s-a-2-7-billion-offer-undervalues-company-1-.html
GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC) , the largest grain
handler in eastern Australia, said it will consider any new
proposals after rebuffing a A$2.7 billion ($2.8 billion) offer
from U.S.-based Archer-Daniels-Midland Co.  The board will respond to any proposal that’s in the
interests of GrainCorp shareholders, Alison Watkins, chief
executive officer of the Sydney-based company, said today on a
call with reporters. The bid from  ADM (ADM) , the world’s largest corn
processor, undervalued it, GrainCorp said earlier in a
statement.  GrainCorp has traded above ADM’s A$11.75 offer since the
bid was made last month, signaling investors expect a higher
price. Buying the Sydney-based company would give ADM control of
seven of the eight bulk grain ports on the east of  Australia ,
the world’s second-largest wheat exporter.  The response to “ADM’s offer indicates the door is not
closed on negotiations,” Tom Leske, a sales trader at Churchill
Capital in  Singapore , said by phone. “There is still a decent
probability of a bump to reach an agreed deal.”  GrainCorp, which today reported earnings that missed
analyst estimates, closed 0.2 percent higher at A$12.20 in
Sydney. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.9 percent.  The company is an attractive target located in the
“geographic nerve center of demand,” Watkins said today on a
call with analysts. On the media call, she said the company
isn’t in a “selling ourselves” mode.  Delicate Approach  The GrainCorp statement provides an opportunity for the
parties to start negotiations,  Jamie Spiteri , head dealer at
Shaw Stockbroking Ltd. in Sydney, said by phone. By not
rejecting the bid, the board signaled it’s ready to consider
talks that may lead to a sale of the company, he said.  Credit Suisse Group AG and  Greenhill & Co Inc. (GHL)  are advising
GrainCorp while Barclays Plc and Citigroup Inc. are acting for
ADM.  “These approaches have to be dealt with delicately because
groups can walk away,” Spiteri said. “The only real uplift
from here would come from an alternate bid on the table. If
there’s no alternate bid on the table, they then have to
negotiate relative to this direct approach.”  ADM, which increased its stake in GrainCorp to 14.9 percent
before making the offer, said today in a statement that its bid
“represented a significant premium to the prevailing GrainCorp
share price at the time of our approach. We believe it remains
an attractive proposal.”  Revenue Surge  GrainCorp handles about 75 percent of annual production on
the east coast of Australia, the company said today. It’s also
the last publicly traded wheat merchant of its scale in
Australia, with its revenue surging since Australia’s 2006
decision to strip AWB Ltd. of an export monopoly.  In addition to its infrastructure, which includes 21
million metric tons of storage capacity at more than 280 inland
grain-handling sites, GrainCorp would give ADM annual production
of more than 1 million tons of malt.  GrainCorp today reported net income of A$205 million,
missing the average of five analyst  estimates  of A$215 million.  “Past transactions in the agricultural sector have been at
far greater premiums given the irreplaceable nature of the
assets,” Belinda Moore, a Brisbane-based analyst with RBS
Morgans said in a Nov. 12 note. “Australian agriculture has
quality, freight and traceability advantages and is also seen as
the food bowl or the gateway to Asia.”  Australia was the world’s largest wheat exporter after the
U.S. last season, according to the U.S. Department of
Agriculture. The nation shipped 24.5 million tons of wheat in
the year through September, the Australian Bureau of
Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  