-- Groupon Promotes Kal Raman to Operating Chief
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-11-15T15:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/groupon-promotes-kal-raman-as-operating-chief.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  promoted Kal Raman to
chief operating officer, enlisting the former  EBay Inc. (EBAY) 
executive to jump-start growth in suffering overseas operations.  An e-commerce veteran who also worked at Amazon.com Inc.,
Raman joined Groupon in April as senior vice president in charge
of sales and operations, the company said in a statement
yesterday. Margo Georgiadis last held the COO job before she
left in September 2011 to rejoin former employer Google Inc.
after less than a year.  With oversight of global sales and operations, Raman is
poised to help the company grow in markets outside the U.S.,
where sales declined in the most recent quarter, said  Sameet Sinha , an analyst at B. Riley & Co. in San Francisco. Groupon
reported third-quarter revenue last week that missed estimates
and dragged its stock to a record low.  “They really did need a COO to come in and really fix the
operations of the company at every function,” Sinha said in an
interview. “They need to have a systematic and synchronized
business model across the world.”  Groupon rose 2.2 percent to $2.79 at 10:01 a.m. in New
York. The stock had dropped 87 percent this year through
yesterday.  Raman, 44, said in an interview yesterday that he’ll work
to apply to international markets the technology and sales
strategies that are effective in the U.S. “We can reactivate
our international business,” he said. “We have a playbook
which is working, but by no sense of the imagination is it a
finished product.”  Global Decline  In the most recent quarter, international revenue fell 10
percent to $276.9 million from the previous quarter.  Raman becomes Groupon’s third COO in two years, following
the departures of Georgiadis and  Rob Solomon , a former Yahoo!
Inc. executive who briefly served as operating chief before
leaving the daily deal site in 2011.  Groupon promoted another sales executive, Chris Muhr, to
head the Europe,  Middle East  and Africa region, the company said
in September.  Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Mason  has sought to add
veterans of e-commerce to his  management  bench, which includes
at least two other Amazon alums, Chief Financial Officer Jason
Child and Jeff Holden, a senior vice president of  product
management .  Raman expects to take over some responsibilities from the
CEO, he said. “Hopefully I will take lots of burden off
Andrew’s shoulders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas MacMillan at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net  