-- Liberty Global CFO Sees Germany Allowing More Cable Acquisitions
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-11-14T16:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/liberty-global-cfo-sees-germany-allowing-more-cable-acquisitions.html
Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , the John Malone-led cable-TV company operating outside the U.S., predicts
regulators will eventually clear the way for more cable
acquisitions in  Germany .  While antitrust authorities “aren’t ready” yet for
additional mergers after Liberty Global’s 3.16 billion-euro ($4
billion) takeover of Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg last year, “these
things evolve,” Chief Financial Officer Charles Bracken said
today at an investor conference in Barcelona organized by Morgan
Stanley.  “The benchmark for us in the rest of Europe was to have
these national cable champions,” he said. “I see no reason why
Germany in the long term shouldn’t end up with the same”
structure as other countries.  Liberty Global gets about 70 percent of its revenue from
Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Belgium. As a
condition for approving the KabelBW deal, Germany’s Federal
Cartel Office forced the Englewood, Colorado-based company to
make concessions including removing basic encryption of digital
free-to-air TV programs as well as enabling competitors to bid
on contracts with housing associations.  Germany’s largest cable operator is  Kabel Deutschland
Holding AG. (KD8)  The country’s cable companies compete for clients
with former phone monopoly  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)   Liberty Global won’t raise its 35-euro per share offer to
gain full control of Belgium’s  Telenet Group Holding NV (TNET) , the CFO
said. Liberty Global passed on multiple opportunities to acquire
 Ziggo NV (ZIGGO) , the Dutch rival that sold shares in an initial public
offering this year, he said.  Telenet fell 0.3 percent to 35.41 euros at the close of
trading in Brussels today, giving the company a market value of
4 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Barcelona at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  