-- Ibrahimovic Scores All Four Goals as Sweden Beats England
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-15T02:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/ibrahimovic-scores-four-as-sweden-beats-england-4-2-france-wins.html
Zlatan Ibrahimovic scored all four
goals to lead  Sweden  to a come-from-behind 4-2 win against
 England  in an international soccer exhibition match.  Ibrahimovic scored three times in the final 15 minutes last
night, including a long overhead kick, as Sweden celebrated the
opening of its new national stadium in  Stockholm . England
Captain Steven Gerrard made his 100th appearance for his team,
becoming the fifth player to reach the milestone.  “His performance was world class and he just scored one of
the best goals I’ve seen live,” Gerrard said of Ibrahimovic in
an interview with ITV. “It was his night.”  France rallied to beat  Italy  2-1, the U.S. twice came from
behind to tie  Russia  2-2, and  Germany  and the Netherlands
finished scoreless among other exhibition games in  Europe . Pedro Rodriguez scored twice as World and European champion Spain won
5-1 in Panama.  Ibrahimovic’s late goals at the Friends Arena handed
England its first match loss under manager Roy Hodgson. The
Paris Saint-Germain striker opened the scoring in the 20th
minute when he poked the ball past goalkeeper Joe Hart after his
initial effort was blocked by Steven Caulker.  England tied the game in the 35th minute when  Danny Welbeck 
put in a cross from Manchester United teammate Ashley Young. The
visiting team took the lead three minutes later as Gerrard sent
a curling free kick into the area that Caulker, one of six
players making his England debut, knocked past goalkeeper
Andreas Isaksson.  Hat Trick  Ibrahimovic made it 2-2 in the 77th minute as he beat
defender Ryan Shawcross to chest down a long ball and volley
past Hart. He completed his hat trick with six minutes left with
a long free kick between Hart and the far post.  Ibrahimovic then closed the scoring in spectacular fashion
in stoppage time as Hart raced out of his area to clear a ball.
The goalkeeper’s header went straight up in the air and
Ibrahimovic, with his back to goal, sent an overhead kick from
25 yards straight into the net.  “The fourth goal was extraordinary, but it was the second
and third goals which cost us,” Hodgson told ITV. “For 70
minutes we were playing very well and we deserved to be in the
lead, but we made changes and they took the initiative.”  Bafetimbi Gomis came off the bench to score in the 67th
minute and give  France  the away win against Italy in Parma. It
was Italy’s fifth straight defeat in exhibition matches.  Substitute Mix Diskerud scored in second-half stoppage time
in Krasnodar as the U.S. tied Russia, which remains unbeaten in
six matches under coach Fabio Capello. Russia led twice on goals
by Fedor Smolov and Roman Shirokov either side of Michael Bradley’s 20-yard volley in the 76th minute.  Growing Team  “The way our team fought back twice after being down a
goal was great and it showed a lot of character,” U.S. coach
Jurgen Klinsmann said in comments distributed by U.S. Soccer.
“This is a young team, and a team that is growing.”  Edinson Cavani and Luis Suarez scored as Uruguay won 3-1 in
 Poland , Didier Drogba’s goal helped Ivory Coast past Austria 3-0
and Jose Holebas’s first-half goal gave Greece a 1-0 win against
Ireland in Dublin.  Jordan Rhodes scored both goals as  Scotland  beat Luxembourg
2-1 in its first game since Craig Levein was fired as coach.
Bill Stark led Scotland tonight in place of Levein, who was let
go last week after two losses and two draws in World Cup
qualifying.  In  Panama  City, David Villa, Sergio Ramos and Markel
Susaeta, in his international debut, also scored for Spain as
the top-ranked team ended 2012 unbeaten.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 