-- Libya’s New Government Sworn in Before National Congress
-- B y   B r i g i t t e   S c h e f f e r   a n d   S a l e h   S a r r a r
-- 2012-11-14T16:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/libya-s-new-government-sworn-in-before-national-congress-1-.html
Libya ’s new government was sworn in
today before lawmakers, with a third of the nominees absent amid
an investigation into their alleged links to the ousted regime
of  Muammar Qaddafi .  The new government takes over from an interim
administration that has struggled to stabilize the north African
nation in the year since Qaddafi’s ouster and killing after a
bloody eight-month uprising. Since then, the government has been
unable to curtail militias amid a security vacuum that has left
investors wary of returning despite the country’s oil wealth.  “The new Libya is a democratic and pluralistic Libya and
we need security and tranquillity for our people,” Mohammed
Magariaf, the head of the General National Congress, said before
a packed legislature. Outside, at least 500 police and soldiers
patrolled the area around the parliament, backed by heavy
weaponry.  “We are looking forward to our future, to achieve our
goals with confidence and hope,” Magariaf said.  The decision by a committee to investigate the background
of eight of the 27 ministerial hopefuls named by then Prime
Minister-elect Ali Zaidan underscored the difficulties of
returning stability to the country. Protests over a previous
Cabinet named by Zaidan’s predecessor led to protests and cost
that premier, Mustafa Abushagur, his job barely a month after he
was chosen by lawmakers.  “The next stage is very serious and very important, and we
hope we will have a relationship with Ali Zaidan based on
coordination, cooperation and respect,” Magariaf said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brigitte Scheffer in Dubai at 
 bscheffer@bloomberg.net ;
Saleh Sarar in Tripoli at 
 ssarar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  