-- ICAP Slides to Near Four-Year Low as Profit Drops 26%
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-11-14T16:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/icap-reports-26-profit-drop-sees-earnings-at-low-end-of-range.html
ICAP Plc (IAP) , the world’s largest broker
of transactions between banks, fell to the lowest in more than
three-and-a-half years after first-half pretax profit shrank 26
percent, hurt by  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis.  Profit in the six months through Sept. 30 fell to 137
million pounds ($217 million) from 186 million pounds in the
year-earlier period, the firm said in a statement today. Full-
year profit will be at the “low end” of the 300 million-pound
to 332 million-pound range of analyst estimates, London-based
ICAP said.  “This has been one of the toughest periods in my 36-year
career in the wholesale financial markets,” Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Spencer  said. “I do not believe this negative
environment will continue indefinitely, but equally I do not
expect it to improve imminently.”  ICAP is cutting costs to bolster profit as the crisis
crimps transactions on its foreign-exchange and fixed-income
trading platforms. The company expects to make more than 50
million pounds of reductions by the end of this financial year.  The  stock  fell 9.2 percent to 281.40 pence in London
trading, the lowest since March 2009. The shares have dropped 19
percent so far this year.  “This reflects the continuing unhelpful volume backdrop,
which reaches across pretty well all markets,” Philip Middleton, a London-based analyst at Bank of America Corp. who
had estimated the company would have a 330 million-pound profit
for the year, wrote in a note to clients today.  Libor Probe  Interdealer brokers such as ICAP act as a go-between for
banks that trade bonds, stocks, currencies, energy and
derivatives. They profit when prices fluctuate because more
traders use the products they trade.  ICAP repeated its May statement that it’s received requests
from government agencies probing banks’ past submissions to the
London interbank offered rate. The firm said it’s co-operating
fully with requests from government agencies for information in
the investigation. ICAP said it’s impossible to predict the
scope and timing of any impact on the company.  Spencer said the firm has suspended one person as a result
of its internal probe into Libor-rigging, and that nobody has
been fired. Barclays Plc paid a record 290 million-pound fine
earlier this year for manipulating Libor, and regulators in the
U.S. and U.K. have been investigating the role of other
institutions in how the rate is set.  To contact the report on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  