-- Micex Seen Needing Legal Certainty to Expand: Russia Overnight
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-11-14T03:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/micex-seen-needing-legal-certainty-to-expand-russia-overnight.html
Russia  will lure  overseas funds  to
equity markets once laws improve to give foreign investors
confidence they will be treated as a local stockholder,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “Is a foreign investor in the Russian market going to be
treated equally with a local investor or local counterparty?
Legal certainty is absolutely a key aspect,” Alex Krunic, an
 executive director  at JPMorgan in charge of technical sales,
direct custody and clearing, said at a conference organized by
the  Moscow Exchange  in London yesterday. “Liquidity would shift
back to the local market once international investors get
confidence in that market.”  The average value of shares in Russia’s biggest companies
is 57 percent higher in London than in Moscow, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The Moscow Exchange, which runs the 30-stock
 Micex (INDEXCF)  Index, is trying to modernize its trading systems and open
up access to the domestic market. The Micex has the cheapest
valuations among the four biggest  emerging markets  and  volumes 
are about a third of the level for Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  Index.  The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded
Russian companies in  New York  slipped 1.1 percent yesterday to
90.65, as American depositary receipts of  OAO Gazprom (OGZPY)  tumbled to
a five-month low. The Micex has retreated 2 percent this year,
while the Bovespa is up 1.3 percent and the BSE India
Sensitive Index has jumped 20 percent. The Shanghai Composite
Index of Chinese stocks is down 7.1 percent in 2012.  Equity futures  on Russia’s dollar-denominated RTS Index
gained 0.6 percent in New York to 136,880.  Most Corrupt  Russia was ranked the most corrupt nation among the Group
of 20 advanced economies in Berlin-based Transparency
International’s 2011 Corruption Perceptions Index. The jailing
of  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , the former billionaire owner of Yukos
Oil Co. arrested in 2003, is a touchstone for investors
concerned about the independence of Russia’s judiciary.  “The legal regime in Russia is pretty complex,” Philippe
Laurensy, a regional director at Euroclear Bank SA, the world’s
largest system for settling debt, said at the exchange
conference in London. “There are many different regulations
which are often conflicting with one another. That doesn’t give
a lot of confidence to investors, they don’t know what judge A
would say versus judge B.”  Russian stocks will be traded on Euroclear’s platform from
July 2014, Elena Gusalova, the National Settlement Depository’s
director of research and development, said in London yesterday
at another conference organized by BCS Financial Group. The
exchange will move to settling transactions over two days by the
end of 2013, from the current immediate settlement, Sergey
Sinkevich, the head of primary markets at the exchange, said 
yesterday.  ‘Liberalization Measure’  The country merged its two competing depositaries on Nov. 6
to bring settlement procedures into line with international
norms.  The establishment of a central depository is “the most
important liberalization measure in the domestic market since
the ruble became convertible,” Robert Barnes, a managing
director at UBS AG, said in London yesterday. The move
“enhanced the legal certainty over the ownership of stock,” he
said.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, fell 2.4 percent to $26.65
yesterday, the lowest level since Aug. 2. The RTS Volatility
Index, which measures expected swings in futures, slipped 1.3
percent to 28.17 points. Futures on the ruble showed the
currency strengthening 0.2 percent to 31.926 per dollar.  Oil Slumps  Oil dropped for a second day in New York yesterday as the
 International Energy Agency  cut its demand estimate for the
fourth quarter for a second time. Crude for December delivery
slid 0.2 percent to $85.38 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  yesterday. Prices are down 14 percent this year.  Brent oil for December settlement declined 0.7 percent to
$108.26 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange, while  Urals crude , Russia’s chief export oil blend, fell 
0.8 percent to $106.84 yesterday.  Gazprom ADRs sank 4.2 percent to $8.77, the lowest level since
June 1. The shares lost 3.6 percent to 139.68 rubles in Moscow,
or the equivalent of $4.42. One ADR equals two shares.  OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) , Russia’s biggest mobile phone
company by subscribers, rose 2.9 percent to $17.46. The gain
widened the premium over the company’s Moscow-listed shares to
22.6 percent, the most since Sept. 13. The  stock  in Moscow fell
1.3 percent to 226.14 rubles, or $7.12. One ADR represents two
shares.  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , Russia’s third-biggest mobile phone
company, rose 0.4 percent to $10.71, rebounding from the lowest
level since Sept. 4.  The two companies are scheduled to report third-quarter
earnings today.  Aluminum producer  United Co. Rusal (486)  sank 1.8 percent to
HK$4.44 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:06 a.m. local time. The
MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in  London  at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  