-- India Airwave Sale Raises 25% of Goal Imperiling Deficit
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-11-15T11:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/india-airwave-sale-raises-25-of-target-imperiling-deficit-goal.html
India  raised less than 25 percent of
its target from an auction of airwaves, a sale Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram was counting on to avert a sovereign
credit downgrade.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  and  Idea Cellular Ltd. (IDEA) 
gained in Mumbai.  The government raised 94.08 billion rupees ($1.7 billion)
after operators stayed away from bidding for a CDMA band and for
the nation’s two biggest cities, telecommunications minister
 Kapil Sibal  told reporters in New Delhi yesterday. That falls
short of the 400 billion rupees targeted by Chidambaram to help
narrow the  budget deficit  to 5.3 percent of gross domestic
product in the year to March 31, from 5.8 percent in the
previous 12 months.  The failure to meet the revenue goal from the spectrum sale
may result in higher borrowing amid threats of a junk rating by
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, according to Upasna
Bhardwaj, an economist at  ING Vysya Bank Ltd. (VYSB)  Demand for the
airwaves waned after the government set a reserve price of
almost nine times their original cost at a 2008 sale, Rajan Mathews, director general of industry group  Cellular Operators
Association of India , said in a telephone interview at the end
of the first day of the auction on Nov. 12.  “Definitely it is a disappointment and the  finance
ministry  will have to look at different ways to garner
revenue,” Mumbai-based Bhardwaj said in a telephone interview.
“Right now, there’s uncertainty on the fiscal side. They will
have to look at extra borrowings.”  ‘Aggressive Bidding’  Chidambaram is seeking to curb the  budget deficit  to an
almost decade low of 3 percent in five years as S&P and Fitch
reduced the outlook on India’s credit rating to negative from
stable earlier in 2012, bringing the nation a step closer to
non-investment grade.  “This is the market and this is how it has played itself
out,” Sibal told reporters, after saying on Nov. 8 that he had
“high expectations for aggressive bidding to bring as much as
possible to the kitty.” The government still plans to complete
the auction of unsold spectrum before the end of the financial
year on March 31 and has yet to decide on lowering the reserve
price for Mumbai and New Delhi, he said.  Shares Advance  Shares of Bharti, which spent the least at the auction,
jumped the most in two weeks, advancing 2.6 percent to 290.3
rupees today in Mumbai trading, compared with a 0.8 percent loss
for the benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Idea jumped 3 percent to 94.95 rupees, the biggest
gain in a week.  The 1800 megahertz band was made available after the
 Supreme Court  earlier this year said spectrum must be auctioned
rather than sold and canceled 122 licenses, saying their
original allocation had been corrupted by “money power” and
some buyers’ “ability to manipulate the system.”  The Indian unit of  Norway ’s  Telenor ASA (TEL)  spent the most,
paying 40.2 billion rupees on 24 blocks to reclaim its rescinded
licenses, while Idea, controlled by billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla, spent 20.3 billion rupees on 30 blocks, according to the
 Department of Telecommunications .  Videocon Industries Ltd. (VCLF)  paid 21.3 billion rupees for 22
blocks,  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  paid 12.95 billion rupees for 23
blocks, while Bharti, the nation’s biggest operator, spent 87
million rupees on one block. Those were the five eligible
bidders at the auction. Videocon rose 0.2 percent to 169.85
rupees, paring the day’s gain of as much as 2.8 percent.  ‘Complete Failure’  “This has been a complete failure for the government and a
victory for the incumbent players like Bharti, Idea and
Vodafone,” said Daryl Philip, an analyst with Mumbai-based
Finquest Securities Pvt. “Based on the sector’s finances, the
government’s expectations were completely impractical. We should
see some downward tinkering of prices going forward.”  The government set a reserve price of 140 billion rupees
for this week’s auction, compared with the 16.6 billion rupees
operators paid in 2008. The final auction price determined by
the sale of 1800 megahertz band this month will serve as the
opening bid for the 900 megahertz band to be sold by the end of
March, according to Sibal.  The reserve price needs to be reasonable for operators to
bid, Marten Pieters, chief executive officer for Vodafone’s
India unit, told reporters in  New Delhi  yesterday. “Spectrum
usage fees should be flat and only represent the charge for
administering the spectrum,” the Newbury, U.K.-based company
said in a statement separately.  Predictable, Stable  “We are looking forward to a more predictable and stable
regulatory environment,” Telenor Group President and CEO Jon Fredrik Baksaas said in a statement yesterday. Bharti’s
spokesman Ashutosh Sharma declined to comment, while Idea’s
spokesman Rajat Mukarji said the operator will issue a statement
today.  A shortfall in revenue from the sale of the airwaves may
pressure the government to step up sales of stakes in state-
owned companies for funds, said ING Vysya’s Bhardwaj. Finance
Minister Chidambaram raised the budget deficit target to 5.3
percent for the current financial year, from the 5.1 percent set
by his predecessor  Pranab Mukherjee .  The higher limit may require an extra borrowing of as much
as 250 billion rupees, two finance ministry officials with
direct knowledge of the matter said this month, asking not to be
identified as they aren’t authorized to speak on the topic.  Wider Deficit  After the auction outcome, the gap may widen to 5.7 percent
and the government may have to sell 300 billion rupees more of
bonds, Bhardwaj said. The poor showing will not prompt any
revision of the deficit target, Economic Affairs Secretary
Arvind Mayaram told reporters in New Delhi today.  India plans to raise 2 trillion rupees in the second half
of the fiscal year, Mayaram said on Sept. 27, leaving the target
unchanged for the whole year at 5.69 trillion rupees.  The nation’s  budget deficit  is the widest among major
emerging economies as slower growth hurts tax receipts and
subsidies fan spending. Officials boosted diesel prices on Sept.
14 to restrain expenditure on compensation for below-cost sales.  India’s economic growth will slow to 4.9 percent in 2012,
the least in a decade, the  International Monetary Fund  said Oct.
9.  Quarterly growth  slowed to an average of 5.4 percent in the
first half of 2012, from 7.5 percent in 2011, according to the
most recent government data.  “In terms of raising revenue and meeting the fiscal
deficit target, the auction is a disappointment,” said
 Dharmakirti Joshi , the Mumbai-based chief economist at Crisil
Ltd., the Indian unit of S&P. “The fiscal deficit this year
will be higher than 5.3 percent. If they manage to control
expenditure and the disinvestment program raises cash they may
not need to” resort to higher borrowings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at   samnagarajan@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  