-- India’s October Inflation Unexpectedly Eases to 8-Month Low
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-11-14T08:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/india-s-inflation-unexpectedly-eases-weathering-diesel-increase.html
India ’s inflation unexpectedly eased
to an eight-month low in October, a slowdown that may be limited
as the effects of a diesel-price increase spread through Asia’s
third-largest economy.  The wholesale-price  index  rose 7.45 percent from a year
earlier after climbing 7.81 percent in September, the Commerce
Ministry said in a statement in New Delhi today. The median of
28 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was 7.9 percent.  The Indian government boosted diesel tariffs by about 14
percent two months ago to curb fuel subsidies that have stoked a
 budget deficit . The central bank on Oct. 30 predicted faster
inflation this quarter following the move, while signaling it
may cut  interest rates  in the January-to-March quarter next year
as price pressures subsequently moderate.  “The recent fuel subsidy cuts will stoke fuel inflation in
the coming months, and have secondary effects on  core
inflation ,” said Jyoti Narasimhan, India economist at IHS
Global Insight in Bangalore. “With inflation unlikely to recede
substantially, we no longer expect the  Reserve Bank of India  to
soften its stance and cut policy rates” at the next review on
Dec. 18, she said.  The rupee has weakened more than 8 percent against the
dollar in the past year, while the  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  has
gained more than 8 percent. The country’s financial markets are
closed today.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  overhauled economic policies
in September to avert a credit-rating downgrade and bolster an
economy that the International Monetary Fund forecasts will
expand 4.9 percent in 2012, the least in a decade.  Interest Rates  The policy revamp included the diesel-price increase, the
first in over a year, steps to open industries such as retail to
more foreign investment and efforts to stem the rupee’s slide.  Indian inflation, fanned by food and energy costs, is the
fastest in the BRIC group of largest  emerging markets  that also
includes Brazil, Russia and China. The nation also faces the
widest BRIC budget deficit.  Such risks have curbed the Reserve Bank of India’s scope to
join nations from Brazil to Thailand in extending rate cuts as
the global recovery falters.  Reserve Bank  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao held  interest rates 
at 8 percent for a fourth meeting on Oct. 30, while reducing
banks’ reserve requirements to 4.25 percent from 4.5 percent.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram had called for
cheaper credit before the rate decision. He pledged on Oct. 29
to contain the budget shortfall at 5.3 percent of gross domestic
product in the year through March 2013, as officials try to
increase the central bank’s scope for a rate cut.  Fuel prices gained 11.71 percent in October from a year
earlier, today’s report showed. Manufactured goods prices rose
5.95 percent compared with 8.05 percent a year earlier. The
inflation rate for August was revised today to 8.01 percent from
7.55 percent earlier.  Slower expansion and elevated inflation have dimmed the
outlook for automakers Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. and Hyundai
Motor India Ltd. The Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers
sees full-year domestic sales growth of as little as 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  