-- Indonesia Takes On Energy Oversight After Regulator Wound Up
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i   a n d   A g u s   S u h a n a
-- 2012-11-14T14:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/indonesia-to-form-unit-to-replace-bpmigas-energy-minister-says.html
The Indonesian government will
assume responsibility for overseeing the nation’s oil and gas
activities, President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  said, a day after
the industry regulator was dissolved by a court.  A new unit within the Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry
will handle BPMigas’s role for a transition period, Yudhoyono
said today at a press conference, confirming earlier remarks by
Deputy Energy Minister Rudi Rubiandini.  “The presidential decree aims at preventing a regulatory
vacuum and providing certainty for oil and gas industry,”
Yudhoyono said in Jakarta. All oil and gas contracts remain
valid and all operational activities will go on as they should
be, he said.  BPMigas was dissolved yesterday by the nation’s
 Constitutional Court , raising concern that shipments of
liquefied natural gas would be reduced. Indonesia is the world’s
third-largest exporter of the fuel, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy. BPMigas had been created
under a 2001 law that violated the nation’s constitution,
according to the court.  The new unit will assume responsibility for approving the
development of new fields, work programs and budgets, and
approving exports of oil and gas, Rubiandini said in a text
message earlier today. The office will continue to operate until
the 2001 legislation is amended, he said.  The 2001 decree established BPMigas with jurisdiction to
grant production-sharing contracts to explore for hydrocarbons
in Indonesia. The agency also appoints sellers for the
government’s share of oil and gas output.  New Regulation  The court decision may lead to a transfer of BPMigas’s
responsibility for signing production sharing contracts with
investors back to government-owned companies, Shaun Levine,
Eurasia Group’s Asia analyst based in  Washington , D.C., said in
a note yesterday. PT Pertamina, the state oil company, filled
this role before 2001.  The government will start drafting a new law to ensure
certainty and improve the country’s oil and gas business,
Yudhoyono said.  “This decision worsens the long-term outlook for
investment in the Indonesian oil and gas sector and for
production expectations from the country,” said Levine.
“Pertamina has neither the competence nor money for the
exploration and development needed to maintain or increase
production.”  Outlook Worsens  State-owned gas utility PT Perusahaan Gas Negara and
electric company PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara may also see an
increased regulatory role, said Levine.  Existing contracts will remain valid, according to the
court ruling and Indonesian government ministers.  “That makes it likely that no substantial disruption will
take place with regard to regulatory functions or actual
operations,” he said.  Indonesia  is struggling to increase oil output as aging
fields pump less amid a lack of foreign investment. The country
withdrew from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
in 2008.  Indonesia may pump an average 870,000 barrels a day of
crude and condensate this year, down from 1.4 million barrels in
2000, according to data from BPMigas. The country is planning to
raise oil production to 1 million barrels a day in 2014, data
from the government show.  “We inherited fields that have been drained for 20
years,” R. Priyono, the head of BPMigas, said at a press
conference yesterday. “Is it possible to expect us to exceed
past production with the same fields? I don’t think it’s
possible.”  Contracts Intact  AWE Ltd. (AWE) , an Australian company that holds a production
sharing contract for the Ande Ande Lumut field offshore Sumatra,
said that existing contracts will remain intact, according to a
statement released today to the Australian Stock Exchange.  “We anticipate that the Indonesian Government will take
immediate steps to ensure the orderly transfer of regulatory
responsibility,” Bruce Clement, AWE’s managing director, said
in the statement. “While the change in administration may
result in some near term delays in approval for Ande Ande Lumut
development, we don’t anticipate any significant issues in the
long-term delivery of the project.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net ;
Agus Suhana in Jakarta at 
 asuhana1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  