-- Infineon Plans to Cut Spending as Quarterly Sales Top Estimates
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-11-14T08:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/infineon-fourth-quarter-sales-drop-less-than-analysts-estimates.html
Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest semiconductor maker, plans to reduce spending
next year after reporting fourth-quarter sales and operating
profit that topped analysts’ estimates.  Operating profit was 116 million euros ($148 million) in
the three months ended Sept. 30, beating the 105 million-euro
average estimate by analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
slipped 1 percent to 982 million euros from the previous three-
month period, the Neubiberg, Germany-based company said today.
The figure compared with analysts’ estimate of 974 million
euros.  Infineon will postpone or cancel some research and
development projects as it plans to cut investments by 20
percent to 400 million euros in the current financial year. The
chipmaker is curbing the expansion of production sites as
weakening demand for cars and personal computers adds to a drop
in the market for industrial semiconductors.  Chief Executive Officer Reinhard Ploss, who took over last
month after Peter Bauer stepped down for health reasons, has
vowed to trim spending while maintaining investments in new
technologies that will let Infineon replace more mechanical
parts with its chips.  Infineon, whose clients include automaker Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG and consumer-electronics company  Royal Philips (PHIA) 
Electronics NV, climbed 3.4 percent to 5.42 euros at 9:19 a.m.
in Frankfurt trading. The stock had slumped 9.9 percent this
year through yesterday, compared with a 34 percent gain for  ASML
Holding NV (ASML)  and a 4.9 percent decline for  STMicroelectronics NV. (STM)   Revenue will drop by a “mid- to high-single digit”
percentage rate in the 12 months through September 2013, the
company forecast today. For the current quarter Infineon
predicts an operating margin of 4 percent to 6 percent of sales.  STMicroelectronics last month announced plans to reduce
costs potentially including job cuts.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s
biggest chipmaker, on Oct. 16 forecast fourth-quarter profit
margins below estimates amid slumping demand for personal
computers  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  