-- Inflammation Gene Defect Linked to Alzheimer’s in Study
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-11-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/inflammation-gene-defect-linked-to-alzheimer-s-in-study.html
A newly discovered gene variant may
point to another route Alzheimer’s disease takes to ravage the
brain: through the immune system.  The variant, found in less than 1 percent of the
population, almost triples the odds of Alzheimer’s disease among
its carriers, according to papers published in the  New England
Journal of Medicine . The findings may provide clues to how the
aging brain functions.  The gene helps regulate inflammation, the process by which
the body protects itself from invaders. The results released
yesterday are encouraging for researchers targeting the immune
system as playing a role in the mind-wasting disease, said
 Norman Relkin , the director of the Memory Disorders Program and
a neurologist at  New York  Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical
Center. Relkin leads a group testing  Baxter International Inc. (BAX) ’s
Gammagard, an immune system therapy that contains antibodies
from healthy people, in Alzheimer’s patients.  “This is a strong supportive line of evidence that
inflammation in the immune system plays a role, and for those of
us who do clinical trials, especially those with the immune
system, it’s encouraging,” Relkin said in a telephone
interview. He wasn’t involved in yesterday’s study.  More than 5 million Americans have  Alzheimer’s , which is
the most-common type of dementia, according to the Alzheimer’s
Association. Global dementia cases are expected to double within
20 years to as many as 65.7 million people, the Geneva-based
World Health Organization said in April.  TREM2 Gene  In the study, researchers from DeCode Genetics analyzed
2,261 Icelanders and found those with a variant, or defect, on a
gene called  TREM2  had almost a three times higher likelihood of
Alzheimer’s disease than those without the mutation. The
scientists also tested a combined 2,000 people in four other
groups from the U.S. and  Europe , finding similar results.  The researchers determined that carriers of the mutation
who were at least 80 years old and without Alzheimer’s disease
had poorer cognitive function than their unmutated peers. In
July, a DeCode group discovered a mutation that seemed to
protect the brain from Alzheimer’s disease. The two findings in
combination suggest that the brain ages, said Kari Stefansson,
the chief executive officer of Reykjavik, Iceland-based DeCode,
and an author of yesterday’s study, in a telephone interview.  “Both these findings support the notion that Alzheimer’s
is an extreme form of normal cognitive decline,” Stefansson
said. “If you take your skin, your heart, your kidneys, they
all undergo evolution as you grow older and your brain is no
different. If the deterioration and loss in the capacity of the
brain happens in an accelerated fashion, it’s a disease.”  Inflammation Targeted  A second study, led by  John Hardy  of the University College
London Institute of Neurology and Andrew Singleton at the
Bethesda, Maryland-based  National Institute on Aging , also
concluded that a TREM2 variant may play a role. The research
found that Alzheimer’s patients were more likely than healthy
people to have variants on the TREM2 gene.  Researchers have theorized that inflammation plays a role
in Alzheimer’s, and some trials have shown that use of non-
steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as aspirin and
ibuprofen, decrease the likelihood of the ailment. The studies
 haven’t been conclusive . Most drugs developed to try to combat
the disease have focused on another hallmark, the clumps in the
brain of an abnormal form of amyloid protein.  The trial of Baxter’s Gammagard conducted by Relkin will be
completed this year, with results to be released in early 2013.
Baxter, based in Deerfield,  Illinois , doesn’t hold a patent on
the drug, also known as IVIG. The treatment has been used for
three decades in patients who don’t make enough antibodies to
prevent infections.  Though the genetic effect found in yesterday’s research is
small, further investigation may lead to drug development, said
 Gerard Schellenberg , a pathologist at the University of
Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, who wasn’t involved in the
studies.  “Even if the genetic effect is small, that there’s some
risk associated with this gene makes it a valid target,”
Schellenberg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 