-- Ingenico Seeks Acquisitions to Expand in Payment Systems
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-11-15T09:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/ingenico-seeks-takeovers-to-expand-in-payment-systems-ceo-says.html
Ingenico SA (ING) , a French provider of
payment terminals and services, is seeking takeovers to expand
outside  Europe , said Chief Executive Officer Philippe Lazare.  Ingenico could “easily” purchase a company for as much as
400 million euros ($509 million), Lazare said in an interview
yesterday at a conference organized by Morgan Stanley in
Barcelona. “If we want to go higher than that, that may be
possible too” by seeking extra financing.  Lazare’s search focuses on terminal sellers and support
providers as well as makers of technology that would help the
Neuilly-sur-Seine-based company bundle physical and online
payment solutions, the executive said. Ingenico may also acquire
companies to get “direct access to small merchants,” he said.  The company had cash of 313 million euros at the end of the
first half, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ingenico, which  competes  with  VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY) , has
added hardware companies in  Indonesia , Russia and China to
benefit from growth of non-cash payments in  emerging markets .
Revenue from such regions will probably exceed 50 percent of the
company’s total sales in the next few years from 40 percent now,
Lazare said.  The company raised its  revenue target  for 2012 last month
after third-quarter sales jumped 25 percent. It’s also seeking
to profit from the growing number of people using their mobile
devices to pay for purchases.  Sales will probably rise by a “high-single digit”
percentage next year while profitability will remain at least at
the current level, Lazare said. Analysts expect an 8 percent
increase in 2013 revenue, according to the average of 14
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  The stock fell 0.4 percent to 38.36 euros at 10:39 a.m. in
Paris, giving the company a market value of 2 billion euros. The
shares have gained 25 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Barcelona at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  