-- Rona Advances as Investor Invesco Eyes Board Changes
-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-11-14T21:52:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/invesco-seeks-to-replace-rona-board-of-directors.html
Rona Inc. (RON)  rose for a fourth day
after Invesco  Canada  Ltd. said it wants to replace the board at
the home-improvement retailer that rebuffed a takeover bid from
 Lowe’s (LOW)  Cos.  Rona jumped 4.9 percent to C$11.52 at the close in Toronto,
its biggest jump since Nov. 9, the day Rona’s board ousted
former Chief Executive Officer Robert Dutton, who was at the
company’s helm when it rejected a C$14.50-a-share offer from
Lowe’s, the second-biggest U.S. home-improvement chain.  Invesco Canada, the Toronto-based fund company and Rona’s
second-largest investor, said it plans to request a shareholder
meeting to elect new directors. Dutton’s ouster came after
Boucherville, Quebec-based Rona’s profit growth slowed and its
stock slumped. The company’s shares had plunged 48 percent in
the five years through Nov. 8.  “You have to rhetorically ask the question, what the board
was thinking refusing to even speak with Lowe’s,” said  Irwin Michael , a portfolio manager at Toronto-based ABC Funds, Rona’s
third-largest shareholder. “Hopefully change, or the threat of
change will bring in new positive developments for
shareholders,” he said by telephone.  Rona may have lost market share to U.S. competitor  Home
Depot Inc. (HD)  in the third quarter as the latter saw sales grow at
stores open at least a year, while Rona’s fell, Jim Durran, an
analyst at  Barclays Capital , wrote in a note Nov. 13.  ‘Rudderless’ Rona  Rona’s franchise is “deteriorating” and without Dutton it
is “rudderless,” Michael said. The  fund manager  said he would
need to see Invesco’s proposed board before supporting it.  “We support change, we look forward to seeing who is
proposed on that new board of directors slate that Invesco has
announced today, and we’ll see where we go from there.”  Dominique Boies, Rona’s chief financial officer, will act
as interim CEO until a successor is named, the company has said.  Lowe’s, based in Mooresville,  North Carolina , withdrew its
bid in September after opposition from Rona’s board and the
Quebec government which called the company a “strategic
asset.”  Rona hasn’t received an official request for a meeting, and
will respond to Invesco’s announcement later today, Valerie Lamarre, a company spokeswoman said via e-mail today.  Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec -- Rona’s largest
shareholder with about 18.2 million shares, or about 15 percent-
- had no comment on Invesco’s announcement, Maxime Chagnon, a
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Wes Voorheis, a spokesman for Invesco, said the company had
no comment beyond its initial statement.  Invesco Canada exercises control or direction over 12.4
million common shares of Rona, representing about 10 percent of
outstanding shares, Invesco said today in a statement.  Chris Ahearn, a Lowe’s spokesman didn’t immediately respond
to two calls left at his office.  Invesco Canada operates funds under the Trimark and other
brands, and is a unit of  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  of Atlanta.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Daley in  New York  at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan in Toronto at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  