-- Tires Get Grades in Europe as in Test for Premium Brands
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-11-14T23:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/tires-get-grades-in-europe-as-in-test-for-premium-brands.html
For the average car driver, tires
are pretty much all the same, and replacing worn rubber is a
matter of relying on recommendations from a repair shop. That’s
changing in  Europe  as new rules help consumers decide whether
higher-priced  Michelins (ML)  are worth it.  Starting this month, car tires in the European Union have
to bear labels that rate their impact on fuel efficiency and
their traction on wet roads on an A-to-G scale, with A being the
highest. The noise generated while driving is given in decibels,
as part of an effort to help consumers distinguish between tires
that can vary in price from about 45 euros ($57) to more than
200 euros for the same-sized model.  The labels show consumers that tires are “not only round
and black,” said Marco Tronchetti Provera, the chairman of
Italian tire-maker  Pirelli & C SpA. (PC)  “The perception of the
value of the tires improves.”  Differentiation is crucial for European tire-makers like
Michelin & Cie.,  Continental AG (CON)  and Pirelli as low-cost Asian
manufacturers step up competition to woo away customers in the
region’s stagnant market. Austerity measures stemming from the
sovereign-debt crisis heighten the allure of budget tires.  The share of Chinese, Korean and other non-European brands
in the region’s 47 billion-euro tire market rose to a record 23
percent last year from 20 percent in 2007, according to the
European Tyre and Rubber Manufacturers’ Association, or ETRMA.  “Labeling’s a game changer” for the tire industry, said
Fazilet Cinaralp, the ETRMA trade group’s secretary general.
“The competition will be even fiercer. The major brands will
face big challenges” to justify higher prices.  U.S. Rules  The U.S. will issue a final rule next year requiring
tires sold in the country to be labeled for  fuel efficiency , wet
traction and treadwear, said Gene Petersen, who runs  Consumer
Reports ’s tire testing operation.  “Of course, this rating system is different from the EU
system,” he said. “ Japan ,  Korea  and  Brazil  have requirements
out or out soon for fuel efficiency.”  Current European ratings show that high-end manufacturers
in some cases are running behind their low-cost rivals. Tires
for a Volkswagen Golf hatchback from  Taiwan ’s  Nankang Rubber
Tire Corp.  are rated E for roll resistance, which effects fuel
efficiency, and C for wet traction. The tire costs 46.60 euros,
compared with 79.70 euros for a Continental tire that has the
same roll rating and an E wet-grip grade, according to German
online dealer  ReifenDirekt.de .  A Pirelli counterpart, which is rated F for efficiency and
E for traction, was offered on the site for 52.60 euros, a 47
percent discount from its 99.50-euro list price.  Consumer Confusion  “Certain Asian manufacturers have really good labels,”
Frank Schuhardt, chief financial officer of  Delticom AG (DEX) ,
Europe’s biggest tire dealer and the owner ReifenDirekt.de, said
in a September interview. “Anyone that thought volume would
automatically swing to the premium manufacturers doesn’t
understand the nature of competition.”  European manufacturers complain that the labels only
highlight three criteria rather than the broader range of
aspects that define high-end tires, including acceleration,
driving stability and durability. The grades also aren’t much
use for consumers judging performance in snow conditions.  “Customers who look only at the label might get
confused,” said Alexander Bahlmann, a spokesman for Hanover,
Germany-based Continental. “Some tires may perform better than
Continental products in the areas covered by the label because
Continental aims at a very good overall performance.”  Premium Pricing  While budget brands may initially be competitive in the
ratings system, the major international manufacturers should be
able to engineer their tires toward the top end of the scale
over time and offset the allure of low-price competition, said
Kristina Church, a London-based analyst with Barclays.  “There may be some customers in the short term that move
down to cheaper tires because of the ratings,” said the
analyst, who has an overweight rating on Continental and an
equalweight rating on Michelin. “Once the system shakes out,
the European premium brands should be able to underscore their
technology lead and defend market share.”  There’s also a risk that label ratings, which are generated
by the companies themselves based on standardized tests, get
fudged. That requires tight policing by European authorities and
the industry itself to ensure that the ratings remain credible
to deflect the focus on price, said Juergen Resch, head of
German environmental group Deutsche Umwelthilfe.  “The label not only alters customer behavior,” Resch
said. “It primarily changes the offering of the manufacturers
and the dealers. It will help raise the overall quality.”  An emphasis on performance spurred by the ratings may
ultimately play into the hands of European tire companies.
Continental, Michelin and Pirelli are three of the top four
performers in the 13-member  Euro Stoxx autos and parts index 
this year, led by Continental’s 57 percent  surge .  “For the industry, it’s good, and for a player like us
concentrated on premium, it’s even better,” said Pirelli’s
Tronchetti.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  