-- Irish Probe Death of Woman After Report She Was Refused Abortion
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-11-14T14:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/irish-probe-death-of-woman-after-report-she-was-refused-abortion.html
Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  will
await the outcome of investigations into the death of a woman at
a hospital before considering an independent inquiry following a
report she died after being refused an abortion.  Savita Halappanavar died from septicemia and her husband
said doctors had refused her request for a termination while she
suffered severe pain and was told she was miscarrying, the  Irish
Times  reported today. She was refused because a fetal heartbeat
was present, the Dublin-based newspaper reported, citing her
husband. The 31-year-old was informed she was in a Catholic
country, he told the newspaper.  “This is a case of maternal death where a child has been
lost, a mother has died, and a husband is bereaved, that is a
tragedy,” Kenny said in parliament today. “Nothing is ruled
out. It would be appropriate that we should consider those
reports and decide what the best options are from there.”  The death has once again placed abortion center stage in
Ireland, which restricts access to terminations. While women
have a constitutional right to an abortion where there is a
substantial risk to their lives, successive governments have
avoided introducing laws putting it into practice.  “It clearly underlines the need for a change in the
abortion laws,” Fiona de Londras, a law professor at  Durham
University  in  England , said in a phone interview. “It is a
ludicrous situation. There is a clear need for legal guidelines
to be introduced so that doctors know precisely when they are
legally entitled to provide an abortion when requested.”  Protest Rally  The Galway Roscommon University Hospitals Group said in a
statement today that it is standard practice to review
unexpected deaths. The review hasn’t yet started because the
hospital is waiting to consult with the family on the terms of
reference, according to the statement. The Health Service
Executive is also carrying out a probe.  Protesters plan to a rally today in front of parliament,
calling for the government to provide legislation on abortion.  In 2010, the  European Court  of  Human Rights  decided that
while it accepted Ireland had the power over the availability of
abortion, if there was a right to access to a termination then a
system must in place to implement it, de Londras said.  Kenny said a report into the court’s judgment will be
considered by the Health Minister and the government.  “Nothing we can say or do here will bring back Savita
Halappanavar or indeed make up for the loss of a wife and
child,” Kenny said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net  or
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  