-- Israel’s Fischer Says Growth May Be Higher Than Forecast
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-11-14T15:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/israel-s-fischer-says-2013-growth-may-be-higher-than-forecast.html
Bank of Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  said he sees signs that the Israeli economy may grow
faster than the 3 percent forecast for next year.  The latest indicators are “more positive” than they were
when the monetary policy committee decided to cut the  interest
rate  at the end of October, Fischer said in an interview at his
Jerusalem headquarters today.  “Two months ago there was widespread pessimism among the
business sector,” he said. “There were times during the last
couple of months that I was concerned we wouldn’t make 3 percent
next year. Under the current set of circumstances, the balance
has shifted from downside to some upside potential.”  The Bank of  Israel , which joined central banks from South
Korea to Brazil in reducing lending rates in October, has
gradually pared the benchmark rate to 2 percent from 3.25
percent in September 2011 in an effort to shore up the economy
amid the European crisis and a global slowdown. Growth will slow
to 3.5 percent this year, from 4.6 percent in 2011, the
Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics  said in September.  The decision to cut the rate, which surprised the 24
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, made sense at the time, when
growth expectations were worse, said Fischer, 69.  ‘More Aware’  “Because I tend to interact more with the outside world
than most people here, I was possibly a bit more aware that the
global economy didn’t seem to be strengthening,” he said. “And
then I was very aware that our inflation rate was right around
the center of the band, so inflation wasn’t a problem.”  When “we made the decision, the expectations about future
activity were very negative -- actually it is switching lately,
but that was then -- so we wanted to strengthen growth somewhat,
and it wasn’t a danger to inflation,” he said.  The bank’s policy makers next meet on Nov. 26. They will
keep the lending rate unchanged, according to 17 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The decision to reduce the interest rate also helps keep
the shekel from strengthening too much, Fischer said.  “The  exchange rate  is very, very much influenced by the
geopolitical situation,” he said. “We can live with an
appreciation of some sort, but we don’t want a considerable
strengthening of the exchange rate.”  Ten-year  interest-rate swaps , an indicator of investor
expectations for rates over the period, gained 5 basis points to
3.8 percent. The shekel weakened, slipping 0.3 percent to 3.9371
a dollar.  Global Recession  A former No. 2 at the  International Monetary Fund , Fischer
said in an interview in  Tokyo  last month that the world is
“awfully close to a recession.” While the risk has “abated
some,” the economy is “still roughly the same,” he said.  “Europe looks significantly worse,” Fischer said.
“There’s renewed concern about  Greece , new concern about
Germany, and an improvement in China.”  In the U.S., growth will probably exceed the expected 2
percent, with the rate reaching “the good old standard” of 3
percent within three or four years, Fischer said. While business
results “were not great” in the third quarter, consumer
finances look better than before, he said.  “Housing is coming back, there seems to be little question
about that,” he said. There are weak cities and strong cities,
but the average is improving, he said.  U.S. Response  The views of Fischer, who oversees an economy smaller than
Missouri’s, carry international clout because of a four-decade
career spanning academia, banking and policy making.  Fischer, whose term ends in 2015, earned his undergraduate
and master’s degrees at the  London School  of Economics. He then
won a scholarship to MIT, in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , where he
studied under future Nobel laureate economist  Paul Samuelson ,
whose picture hangs on a wall in his office alongside an image
of Theodor Herzl, the father of modern political Zionism.
Another photo features Rudiger Dornbusch, who co-authored a
macroeconomic textbook with Fischer.  As an economics professor at the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology , Fischer was U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s thesis adviser. His former student, who earned “A+”
grades at university, should receive the same mark for his
performance at the Fed, Fischer said.  “He is doing extremely well,” Fischer said. “‘The U.S.
is lucky that he was in this position when the crisis began
because he knew how to deal with it.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  