-- Italy Yields Decline at Sale as German Notes Fetch Negative Rate
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-11-14T15:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/italy-s-borrowing-costs-drop-to-two-year-low-at-bond-auction.html
Italy  sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.46
billion) of three-year notes at the  lowest  rate in more than two
years and the Treasury tapped growing demand for the country’s
debt to auction longer-dated securities.  The nation attracted bids for 1.5 billion euros of bonds
due in 2023 and 2029, its first sale of debt due in more the 15
years since May 2011. The German government sold two-year notes
at a negative yield for only the second time on record.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield has fallen more than 160 basis
since European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged on
July 26 to do whatever it takes to defend the euro. That was
followed by a vow to buy bonds of countries struggling to bring
down borrowing costs. Even with the gains, Italy pays almost 3.6
percentage points more than Germany to borrow for 10 years.  “The resilience of Italian debt to the recent
deterioration in  market sentiment  is quite remarkable and stems
entirely from the signaling effect of the ECB’s new bond-buying
program,” said Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy in  London . “This is the longest period of
relative calm in Italy’s bond market since the crisis erupted in
July 2011” in the nation, he said.  German Auction  The Rome-based Treasury sold 3.5 billion euros of its
benchmark three-year note to yield 2.64 percent, the lowest
since October 2010 and less than the 2.86 percent at the last
auction on Oct. 11.  Germany  auctioned 4.3 billion euros of the
two-year debt at an  average yield  of minus 0.02 percent, down
from 0.07 percent when similar-maturity debt was offered on Oct.
17. Italy’s two-year debt yields 2.30 percent.  Today’s bond and note sales were the first by the two
nations since European finance ministers this week agreed to
give Greece an extra two years to meet its deficit targets,
without agreeing on how to finance the resulting budget
shortfall. Neither did ministers comment on whether  Spain  would
seek to trigger ECB bond purchases as the nation’s 10-year yield
hovers doggedly near 6 percent.  The German auction result underlines investors’
“nervousness and search for safety amid risks that persist from
 Greece ’s unresolved troubles and the impending fiscal cliff in
the U.S.,” finance agency spokesman Joerg Mueller said in an
interview after the auction. The so-called fiscal cliff refers
to a combined $607 billion of tax increases and spending cuts
that will begin automatically in January without a change to
U.S. legislation.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 4.94 percent at 2:50 p.m. London time,
leaving the difference with comparable maturity German bunds at
358 basis points. The German 10-year yield rose two basis points
to 1.36 percent. Italian benchmark 10-year yields reached 6.71
percent on July 25, before Draghi’s announcement.  “Investors’ perception of Italy has changed a lot,” Mario Spreafico, chief investment officer at Schroders Private Banking
in Milan, said by phone after the auction. “The spread between
Italian bonds and German bunds is still unjustified considering
our fundamentals. It should be at least lower than 300 basis
points.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  