-- Japan Megabanks’ $6.7 Billion Stock Losses May Spur Selloff
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2012-11-15T06:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/japan-megabanks-6-7-billion-stock-losses-seen-spurring-selloff.html
Japan ’s biggest banks are poised to
accelerate sales of their stock holdings after 534 billion yen
($6.7 billion) in equity investment losses eroded profit.  Combined losses from shareholdings of  Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  and
 Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  more than tripled in the six months
ended Sept. 30 from 170 billion yen a year earlier, earnings
statements from the Tokyo-based companies showed yesterday.  Mizuho Chief Executive Officer  Yasuhiro Sato  said his bank
may speed up a reduction of stakes in companies and has set up a
panel to tackle the issue. Sumitomo Mitsui President  Koichi Miyata  said he will further reduce the lender’s shareholdings.  The banks have been paring stock investments over the past
15 years to reduce their vulnerability to financial markets as
Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  remains 77 percent below its
1989 peak. The faster they sell, the more disruptive it may be
for the world’s third-largest economy, which is shrinking as
companies from  Sharp Corp. (6753)  to Panasonic Corp. forecast losses.  “Megabanks should carefully and gradually cut their
shareholdings to mitigate fluctuation risks and further
stabilize their management,” Koichi Haji, an executive research
fellow at NLI Research Institute in  Tokyo . “If they rush to
sell them off, they’d see an adverse impact on Japan’s economy
as a whole and further weaken lending demand.”  Shares Rise  Bank shares climbed today amid speculation a possible new
government may push for more aggressive central bank action, a
day after Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  called for elections.
Sumitomo Mitsui closed 3.3 percent higher at 2,448 yen and
Mitsubishi UFJ gained 3.2 percent to 356 yen. Mizuho jumped 3.3
percent to 126 yen.  The Nikkei 225 advanced 1.9 percent. The gauge has lost 12
percent since March 31 as Japan’s economy worsened amid waning
demand for exports.  Gross domestic product  shrank an annualized
3.5 percent last quarter, the most since the earthquake and
tsunami in March 2011.  Stock holding losses at Mitsubishi UFJ, Japan’s biggest
bank, widened 79 percent to 173.6 billion yen in the fiscal
first half from a year earlier. Net income declined 45 percent
last quarter to 107.6 billion yen, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on the half-year figures released yesterday.  Reducing Stakes  Mitsubishi UFJ has moved ahead with a project over the past
four years to reduce its stakes in other companies by about 700
billion yen, Chief Executive Officer  Katsunori Nagayasu  said at
a briefing. The bank plans to reduce the stock holdings by
“hundreds of billions of yen” in the coming years, he said.  At Sumitomo Mitsui, losses stemming from stocks surged more
than 10 times to 132.9 billion yen in the first half. Japan’s
second-largest bank by market value raised its full-year profit
forecast by 13 percent to 540 billion yen, led by gains from
government bond trading and lending. Net income almost doubled
to 213.2 billion yen last quarter.  “The impact on our bank from cross-shareholdings is big,”
President Miyata said.  The lender’s holdings include Panasonic, which yesterday
said it plans to cut 8,000 jobs in the second half of the fiscal
year as it restructures amid falling demand for televisions and
a rising yen.  Mizuho Losses  Mizuho, the country’s third-biggest bank by market value,
booked 227.6 billion yen in losses tied to equities in the six
months ended September. That contributed to a more than 99
percent drop in net income to 356 million yen last quarter.  The lender’s corporate banking unit has a 3.77 percent
stake in Sharp, which has tumbled 75 percent this year, the most
among companies on the benchmark  Topix Index (TPX) , after forecasting
a record full-year loss.  Mizuho maintained its 500 billion yen full-year profit
forecast and Mitsubishi UFJ kept its target of 670 billion yen.  Japanese banks, which hold shares of allied enterprises in
part to cement ties, have been paring their stakes in recent
years. Banks’ stock holdings dropped to 16.2 trillion yen as of
Aug. 31, the lowest since October 1997, when lenders held 47.9
trillion yen of shares, according to central bank data.  “Risks stemming from shareholdings are now at a manageable
level,” said Shinichi Ina, a Tokyo-based banking analyst at UBS
AG. “But this is clearly an issue that megabank executives
should continue tackling, while gauging the impact on Japan’s
stock market from a selloff.”  Japanese banks also risk incurring losses from their near-
record holdings of  government bonds , which they have been
stockpiling as borrowers shun credit amid  deflation . Lenders are
exposed to a spike in  bond yields , the  International Monetary
Fund  warned in August, echoing remarks by  Bank of Japan  Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa.  Major banks in Japan would face 3.7 trillion yen in losses
if yields rise by 1 percentage point, the central bank said Oct.
19. The country’s lenders held 167 trillion yen of Japanese
sovereign debt as of Aug. 31, close to the record 171 trillion
yen reached in March, central bank data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Russell Ward at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net  