-- John Calipari’s Grand Experiment
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2012-11-14T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/john-calipari-s-grand-experiment.html
Joe Paterno’s Grand Experiment is
lying in a heap in the middle of  Pennsylvania . About 500 miles
to the southwest, however, in Lexington, Kentucky, a more
realistic Grand Experiment in college sports is taking place.  This one is powered not by hypocrisy or high-minded
rhetoric about how “student athletes” shouldn’t be getting
“cheated” out of their educations. Its architect is the slick-
suited, $31.7-million head basketball coach of the University of
Kentucky Wildcats, John Calipari.  Coach Cal even has his own name for his experiment:
“ Players First ,” a clever inversion of the “you-will-be-joining-
a-rich-tradition” rhetoric one typically hears from college
coaches. The only tradition Calipari is selling to potential
recruits is his history of turning talented freshmen into high-
priced, first-round NBA draft picks.  The deal he offers them couldn’t be more straightforward:
Give me seven months and I will make you rich. It’s basically a
one-year associate’s degree in basketball with an unparalleled
job-placement record. As Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell
of  Kentucky  is reported  to have joked , Calipari is “turning out
more millionaires than a Wall Street firm.”  New Tradition  Calipari’s experiment is made possible by the National
Basketball Association’s rule that makes players ineligible for
the draft until they are 19 years old or one year out of high
school. They have to find something to do for that year after
graduation. Why not play college basketball?  Thus was born the “one and done” tradition, which Calipari
has embraced as enthusiastically as one of his more
sanctimonious critics once embraced the 3-point shot. (“I can’t
say hello and goodbye in seven months,” said Rick Pitino, the
coach at the University of Louisville who pioneered the use of
the shot while coaching at Providence College in 1987.)  Coach Cal doesn’t rebuild. He reloads. The Wildcats, last
year’s national champions, lost not only their starting five but
their sixth man to the NBA draft. Nevertheless, this year’s
team, which features three of the nation’s top-10 recruits --
including the most sought-after high-school player in the
country, Nerlens Noel -- started the season ranked third.  This is not exactly what the National Collegiate Athletic
Association, which is trying desperately to preserve its
“collegiate model” -- you know,  the one that  allows it and its
members to make hundreds of millions of dollars a year on the
backs of athletes who aren’t paid a dime -- likes to see.  The NCAA blames one and done on the NBA’s rule change,
instituted in 2005. No doubt the NBA benefits from using the
college game as a filter to help it better evaluate young
prospects. The NBA is also a business. It’s merely making a
decision intended to minimize risk for its owners.  For its part, the NCAA is a nonprofit. If it’s so serious
about its collegiate model, why not simply declare freshmen
athletes ineligible for competition? Better yet, why not
acknowledge that the issue isn’t one and done -- it’s that
athletes who perform in front of millions of paying customers
cannot with a straight face be considered “amateurs.”  Instead, the NCAA has gone all in on amateurism. Its answer
to the ever-growing number of recruiting infractions isn’t to
consider the possibility of paying athletes, or even to allow
them to accept endorsement deals (a step that the U.S. Olympic
Committee took decades ago). It’s to  rewrite  its 400-plus page
rulebook to permit harsher punishments.  We have seen how this approach works. Like Prohibition, it
perpetuates the growth of a parasitic underground economy.  Exploiting Exploitativeness  Rather than rethinking the collegiate model, the NCAA
prefers to try to prevent Calipari from continuing to exploit an
exploitative system. The organization has been after Coach Cal
for years, and has almost got him on more than one occasion. Two
of his four Final Four appearances have been erased from the
record books: once when one of his players was found to have
taken money from an agent, another time when one was discovered
to have submitted fraudulent SAT scores. In both cases, Calipari
himself was cleared of any wrongdoing.  The centerpiece of the organization’s latest rulebook
overhaul, intended to make coaches more accountable for their
players’ behavior, seems to have been written with him in mind.
It’s hard to believe there aren’t pictures of Coach Cal and his
top recruits thumbtacked to a large bulletin board inside a
conference room at the NCAA’s Indianapolis headquarters.  Calipari knows he has a target on his back, as do his
nominal superiors, who take every precaution they can to protect
him. Kentucky’s assistant athletic director for compliance doles
out tickets to the team’s games, vetting designated recipients
to make sure they have no connections to prospective recruits or
their coaches. Meanwhile, whatever classes Calipari’s players
are taking, they’re passing them. Kentucky’s basketball program
continues to meet the NCAA’s academic requirements.  Paterno used to boast about how Penn State didn’t segregate
its athletes into special dorms and cafeterias. (He was wrong
about that, but anyway.) Not Coach Cal. He can be seen on the
Internet  proudly showing off  the Wildcat Coal Lodge, a brand-new
dorm for Kentucky’s basketball team decorated with photographs
of former stars and current recruits and outfitted with flat-
screen TVs, recliners, a pool table and a 24-hour kitchen.  Calipari was wearing that same smile after Kentucky
suffered its first loss of the young season on Tuesday night, to
Duke. He complained about the opposing players flopping for foul
calls, then acknowledged that his freshman team was “still
learning.” He knows he’ll have them ready by the time March
Madness rolls around -- and that there will be a fresh batch of
recruits right behind them when these kids move on to the NBA.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
A longtime contributor to the  New York  Times Magazine, he is the
author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the Bronx Is
Burning,” “The Challenge,” and “Death Comes to Happy Valley.”
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on a  tax compromise both parties
can live with  and on  how to fund oversight of nonprofit groups ;
Caroline Baum on the  CEO group that wants to fix the debt ;
Michael Kinsley on why TV insists on  Election Night suspense ;
Ezra Klein on why  tax reform won’t live up to its billing ; Tim
Weiner on echoes  of dark FBI history in the David Petraeus
scandal .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or @jonathanmahler on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 