-- Jordanians Demand Government Resign Over Cut in Fuel Subsidies
-- B y   M o h a m m a d   T a y s e e r   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-11-14T06:39:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/jordanians-demand-government-resign-over-cut-in-fuel-subsidies.html
Hundreds of Jordanians protested
after the government removed subsidies on cooking gas and other
fuels to offset an estimated 3.5 billion-dinar ($4.9 billion)
 budget deficit .  Protesters chanted slogans last night against Prime
Minister Abdullah Ensour and demanded that the government step
down. At least two policemen were seriously injured when they
were shot by demonstrators in the northern city of Irbid, the
 Middle East   News Agency  reported, without saying how it obtained
the information.  “Lifting fuel subsidies should have happened two years
ago, but the government didn’t do that because of the political
circumstances,” Ensour told Jordanian state-run television,
according to the state-run Petra news agency. “There are two
fuel ships in the Aqaba port, and we don’t have the cash to pay
for that.”  Protests broke out in September after the government raised
the prices of 90-octane gasoline by 10 percent and diesel by 6.8
percent. The demonstrations prompted Jordan’s King Abdullah II
to freeze that decision. The government, which has diesel
reserves to last a week, doesn’t have cash to buy more and has
lost at least $4 billion since regional political upheaval of
the Arab Spring disrupted energy supplies, particularly natural
gas from  Egypt , Ensour said.  Energy Imports  Jordan, one of the smallest economies in the Middle East,
imports more than 90 percent of its oil and relies on foreign
investment and grants to support public finances. Repeated bomb
attacks against a  gas pipeline  in Egypt have disrupted Jordan’s
supplies, raising the nation’s energy imports bill by 54 percent
last year.  The government secured a $2 billion loan accord with the
 International Monetary Fund  in August. Officials must decide on
“trade-offs” to meet the objectives of an economic program
supported by the IMF, the fund’s director for Middle East and
Central Asia,  Masood Ahmed , said in September.  Ensour, the prime minister, said the kingdom’s foreign
currency reserves stand at 7 billion dinars, and its electricity
subsidies have reached 1.7 billion dinars in 2012.  The government increased energy subsidies last year, adding
to the strain on public finances, as part of its response to the
popular uprisings that swept across the Middle East. While
Jordan escaped the worst of the unrest, there were rallies
against unemployment and rising living costs.  Families earning less than 800 dinars a month will qualify
for monthly cash payments, Ensour said. “All Jordanians will
buy fuels at the same prices,” he said. The government is also
seeking to merge ministries to cut costs and is pushing a law to
boost taxes on banks, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Mohammad Tayseer in Amman at 
 mtayseer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  