-- Kenya Shilling Falls to Six-Month Low on Dollar ‘Panic Buying’
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-11-14T13:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/kenya-shilling-falls-to-six-month-low-on-dollar-panic-buying-.html
Kenya ’s shilling retreated toward
the lowest in more than six months on investors’ “panic
buying” of dollars in anticipation of the currency declining
further.  The currency of  East Africa ’s largest economy depreciated
0.4 percent to 85.75 a dollar, and was trading 0.2 percent
weaker at 85.60 a dollar, the lowest level on a closing basis
since June 5, by 3:51 p.m. in Nairobi, the capital.  “There is increased demand for dollars driven by panic
buying on expectation that it will weaken in the coming days as
businesses look to increase their imports,” Julius Kiriinya, a
trader at Nairobi-based African Banking Corp., said by phone.  Kenya’s economy expanded 3.3 percent in the second quarter,
the slowest pace since the final three months of 2009, as tea
and flower exports slumped and tourism declined, eroding
foreign-exchange income from the country’s two biggest sources.  The shilling is expected to weaken to a range of 88 to 90
per dollar by year-end as the balance of trade worsens, Nairobi-
based Sterling Capital Ltd. said in a note on Oct 19.  “We are seeing demand for dollars coming in from a cross-
section of businesses seeking to accumulate dollars on
expectation” the shilling may weaken, Duncan Kinuthia, chief
dealer at Nairobi-based Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd., said by
phone today.  The Central Bank of Kenya accepted 7 billion shillings ($82
million) of seven-day  repurchase agreements  and 10.7 billion
shillings of 14-day term-auction deposits, an official who
declined to be identified in line with policy, said by phone.  Uganda ’s shilling weakened 0.3 percent to 2,607.5 a dollar,
while the Tanzanian shilling retreated 0.2 percent to 1,597 a
dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  