-- King to Caucus With U.S. Senate Democrats as Independent
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-11-14T15:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/king-to-caucus-with-u-s-senate-democrats-as-independent.html
Maine ’s U.S. Senator-Elect Angus King announced he will caucus with Democrats while remaining
independent in an effort to “bridge” differences between the
two parties.  With his decision, Democrats will control the Senate by a
55-45 margin starting in January.  The outcome of the Nov. 6 election made the decision easy,
King told reporters at a press conference in  Washington  today.
King had been expected to caucus with the Democrats.  “I’ve decided to affiliate myself with the Democratic
caucus because doing so will allow me to take independent
positions on issues as they arise and at the same time will
allow me to be an effective representative for the people of
Maine,” he said. “By associating myself with one side I am not
in automatic opposition to the other.”  King said he wants to maintain his “independence as long
and thoroughly as possible” and thought about “going it
alone.” He said not choosing sides “simply wouldn’t be
practical” and he would “largely be excluded” from the
committee process and sidelined by Senate rules.  He said he discussed his decision with Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat. King said he asked to be
placed on the Senate Finance Committee, adding that no promises
were made.  “My father used to say if you don’t ask you don’t get,”
he said.  King said he didn’t talk to Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, in making his decision. When
asked why, King said: “He didn’t contact me.”  Maine Election  King, 68, defeated Republican Charlie Summers, 52, Maine’s
secretary of state, and Democratic state Senator Cynthia Dill,
47. King was governor of Maine from 1995 to 2002.  He will fill the seat held by Maine Republican Senator
Olympia Snowe, who announced in February that she wouldn’t seek
re-election, citing too much partisanship in Congress.  Although King is an independent, Democrats saw his
candidacy as their best opportunity to pick up a Republican
Senate seat.  The Senate’s structure requires King to caucus with one of
the major parties or be left out of committee assignments. King
has said he voted for Republican  George W. Bush  in the 2000
presidential race, Democratic nominee  John Kerry  in 2004 and
President  Barack Obama  in 2008. King said he would vote for
Obama again this year.  King supports abortion rights and Obama’s 2010 health-care
law, which Republicans have said they will try to repeal. He
backs spending cuts combined with higher taxes and economic
growth to reduce the  U.S. budget deficit .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jodi Schneider
at   jschneider50@bloomberg.net  