-- KKR to Develop Housing Community in Oil-Rich North Dakota
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-11-14T15:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/kkr-said-to-plan-housing-development-in-oil-rich-north-dakota.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the buyout firm that
started a real estate unit last year, plans to develop a housing
community in Williston,  North Dakota , to meet demand from an
influx of workers in the state’s booming oil industry.  The company is teaming with Pfeffer Capital Advisers LP and
CP Realty LLC on the project, according to a statement from the
group today. The New York-based private-equity firm will invest
as much as $150 million with the two partners for the
development, said a person briefed on the plan who asked not to
be named because the financial details were private.  North Dakota’s economy outpaced every other U.S. state in
2011, with the fastest growth in  home prices , jobs and personal
income, according to Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States, or
BEES, index data. The oil boom fueling the nation’s lowest
unemployment rate also has pushed rural North Dakota’s housing,
electric, water and  emergency services  to the breaking point.  The plans for Williston call for building a community on
164 acres (66 hectares), including as many as 810 apartments and
737 single-family  homes , a park and a sports field, according to
the person briefed. The development would provide housing for
more than 3,000 people, the person said. Williston had a
population of 16,006 in 2011, according to an estimate from the
U.S. Census Bureau.  KKR and its partners plan to build apartments and get land
parcels ready to sell to homebuilders. KKR would invest its own
money and that of its finance unit,  KKR Financial Holdings LLC (KFN) ,
the person said. Steve Okun, a spokesman for KKR, declined to
comment on the financial details.  Pfeffer Capital Advisers was formed last year by former KKR
partner John Pfeffer.  Boom Town  The oil-rich rock layers of the Bakken formation have
turned rural Williston into a boom town and helped North Dakota
surpass  Alaska  as the U.S.’s No. 2 oil producer, after  Texas .  The Williston investment is the latest deal for KKR’s Ralph Rosenberg, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. partner who joined
the firm in March 2011 as its first head of real estate. KKR has
made at least six real estate investments since he was hired,
investing about $350 million.  The pace of KKR’s real estate deals is heightening the
prospect the 36-year-old firm, led by founders  Henry Kravis  and
 George Roberts , might raise outside capital for its property
unit next year. KKR is working on deals that “could easily
consume another $200 million or $300 million of equity in the
next quarter,” Rosenberg said in an interview before today’s
news. He didn’t respond to an e-mail about the Williston project
sent before regular business hours today.  ‘Natural Evolution’  “The natural evolution of our business model should be to
give our investor base access to real estate opportunities,”
Rosenberg said. “That can come through a club, a large
separately managed account or two separately managed accounts
that work together, or a larger commingled vehicle.”  Rosenberg said KKR will make property deals in industries
it knows through the roughly 80 companies the firm owns,
including in the fields of energy, hospitality, retail, health
care and telecommunications.  KKR is among the most active investors in the  energy
industry . The firm has a group dedicated to energy and
infrastructure deals led by Marc Lipschultz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  