-- Korea Electric Reports Bigger-Than-Expected Quarterly Profit
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-11-14T09:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/korea-electric-reports-bigger-than-expected-quarterly-profit.html
Korea Electric Power Corp. (KEP) , the
nation’s monopoly power distributor, had a bigger-than-expected
quarterly profit as the company bought more power from base-load
plants with cheaper fuel costs.  Net income more than tripled to 939.6 billion won ($866
million) in the three months ended Sept. 30, from a revised
266.1 billion won a year earlier, the Seoul-based utility known
as Kepco said today in a regulatory filing. That beat the 735.5
billion won mean estimate of 15 analysts  compiled  by Bloomberg.
Sales rose 17 percent to 13.7 trillion won.  Today’s result is the first quarterly profit in four for
Kepco as it struggled to pass on rising fuel costs in prices.
The government in August rejected Chief Executive Officer Kim
Joong Kyum’s request to raise power tariffs by 16.8 percent,
instead approving an average 4.9 percent increase. Kim offered
to resign this month as a result.  The stock gained 1.7 percent to close at 27,100 won today
in Seoul trading after the earnings announcement, compared with
a 0.2 percent increase in the benchmark  Kospi (KOSPI)  index.  The company’s operating profit, or sales minus the cost of
goods sold and administrative expenses, rose 39 percent to 1.98
trillion won in the third quarter, compared with the mean
estimate of 1.39 trillion won in a survey of 16 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  Further Out  South Korea  increased operations of base-load power plants
in the third quarter, mainly fueled with lower-cost coal and
nuclear, Kim Sang Ku, an analyst at Kiwoom Securities Co., said
today.  That benefit may be diluted in the current quarter as Korea
Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., which runs 23 reactors, shut two
units at the Yonggwang atomic plant this month to replace
substandard components.  The cost of buying electricity from other sources if one
nuclear reactor is shut may rise by 3.4 billion won a day,
Cecila Oh, an investor relations official at Kepco, said on a
conference call today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  