-- New York Gasoline Weakens as Hess Restarts Port Reading Refinery
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-11-14T20:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/new-york-gasoline-weakens-as-hess-restarts-port-reading-refinery.html
Gasoline weakened in the New York
Harbor market after  Hess Corp. (HES)  began restarting its  Port Reading 
refinery in  New Jersey  and as Europe-U.S. fuel shipments were
poised to increase.  Hess expects to resume production at its 70,000 barrel-a-
day Port Reading refinery by the end of the week. The plant has
been shut since Oct. 29 after  Hurricane Sandy  cut the site’s
power. Fourteen gasoline cargoes are booked to deliver supplies
to the U.S. for the two weeks to Nov. 28 and another 15 will
probably be hired, according to shipbrokers and traders who
specialize in transporting the fuel.  Reformulated gasoline  to be blended with ethanol, or RBOB,
in the New York Harbor weakened by 2.75 cents to trade at a
premium of 25.25 cents a gallon over futures on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange at 2:12 p.m. Conventional gasoline for
ethanol blending, or CBOB, declined 1 cent to 23 cents.  “Anything that looks like a recovery of operations in New
York Harbor is going to keep the pressure down on prices,” Carl Larry, a broker at Atlas Commodities LLC, said by phone from
Houston today. “Port Reading is always at the front of the line
when it comes to New York Harbor. Bayway is also a big thing
people are waiting for.”  With the capacity to process 238,000 barrels a day,
Phillips 66’s  Bayway refinery  is the largest plant around New
York Harbor. The site, which also shut Oct. 29, is offline for
repairs and maintenance after Sandy caused flooding and a  power
failure . Phillips said Nov. 5 that it planned to resume normal
operations in two to three weeks.  Gulf Coast  Gasoline gained the most in more than a week on the U.S.
Gulf Coast as Motiva Enterprises LLC’s 255,000-barrel-a-day
 Convent refinery  was shut after power went out in the area, a
person familiar with operations said.  Motiva’s Port Arthur,  Texas , refinery is also operating at
reduced rates as it repairs a 325,000-barrel-a-day crude unit.
The unit may start up as early as next month, people familiar
with the operations said Oct. 5.  CBOB in the Gulf Coast increased by 3.25 cents to a
discount of 16 cents over futures at 2:06 p.m., the biggest rise
since Nov. 2. RBOB in the region gained 2.25 cents to a 14.75-
cent discount.  “If you’re buying out in the  Gulf Coast , what you’re
watching is the total capacity down,” Larry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  