-- Nexans, Prysmian Win Court Bid Against EU Cable Cartel Raids
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-11-14T17:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/nexans-prysmian-win-court-challenge-to-eu-raids-copied-files.html
Prysmian SpA (PRY)  and  Nexans SA (NEX)  partly
overturned a European Union decision ordering antitrust raids
that seized swathes of company documents, a ruling that may clip
the wings of the bloc’s competition regulator in future probes.  The EU General Court, the bloc’s second-highest tribunal,
today partly annulled decisions by the European Commission from
2009 to raid the companies over their alleged roles in fixing
prices for undersea and underground high-voltage power cables,
saying the scope of its information-gathering was too wide.  “The commission will now have to make sure it’s on much
firmer ground before it goes on a fishing expedition,” said
Christopher Hutton, a competition-law specialist with  Hogan
Lovells  in  London .  The EU’s antitrust watchdog last year sent formal
complaints to as many as nine companies including  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  in
the wake of its 2009 raids. Prysmian and Nexans argued that
officials failed to adequately define the goal of the
inspections, during which officials mined the contents of entire
hard drives of several managers.  Nexans gained 1.6 percent in Paris trading today, after
surging as much as 3.8 percent. Prysmian shares closed down 0.8
percent in Milan, after earlier rising as much as 1.5 percent.  Reasonable Grounds  “The commission has not demonstrated that it had
reasonable grounds for ordering an inspection covering all
electric cables and the material associated with those cables,”
the Luxembourg-based court said. The companies’ other points,
including a request to get back documents and copies taken
during the raids, were rejected. The ruling can be appealed to
the EU Court of Justice, the bloc’s highest court.  Following today’s decisions, the commission “won’t be able
to use any of the evidence, documents or statements” from the
raids that don’t concern high voltage underwater and underground
cables, said Trevor Soames, a lawyer with Shearman & Sterling
LLP in Brussels who isn’t involved in the matter.  The Brussels-based commission will closely examine the
rulings “and the consequences that need to be drawn from
them,” Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the commission, said
in an e-mail.  “It should however be noted that the General Court has
upheld the commission’s inspection decisions as regards the high
voltage underground and submarine cables which form part of the
Commission’s ongoing cartel investigation into the power cables
sector,” he said.  Angeline Afanoukoe, a spokeswoman for Nexans, declined to
immediately comment. Lorenzo Caruso, a spokesman for Prysmian,
said by e-mail the company needs to analyze the ruling in detail
before commenting further.  Prysmian outbid Paris-based Nexans in 2010 to buy Dutch
rival Draka Holding NV, creating the world’s biggest cable maker
in an effort to restore margins and counter competition from
South Korea.  The cases are: T-140/09, Prysmian, Prysmian Cavi and
Sistemi Energia v. Commission, T-135/09, Nexans  France  and
Nexans v. Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  