-- Nidec Components Draw Bond Investors Avoiding Sony: Japan Credit
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2012-11-14T01:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/nidec-components-draw-bond-investors-avoiding-sony-japan-credit.html
Japan ’s top-rated electronics
companies are tapping the lowest borrowing costs in 15 months
even as bond investors shun flagship issuers including  Panasonic
Corp. (6752)  and  Sony Corp. (6758)   Nidec Corp. (6594) , the world’s biggest maker of hard-disk drive
motors, paid less than half the spread of Japanese corporates in
its first sale of non-convertible bonds last week, while copier
maker  Fujifilm Holdings Corp. (4901)  also plans a debut. Yield premiums
on companies rated AA- to AA+ have narrowed four basis points
since September to 31 basis points, the least since August 2011,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. The average on
Japanese corporate debt rose 6 to 49 during the period, while
that globally narrowed 14 to 158.  Component makers such as Nidec, which also supplies camera
shutters and vibrators for smartphones, are able to remain
profitable even as Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. unseat
Japanese companies as leaders in consumer electronics. By
contrast, Panasonic, whose plasma TVs and appliances symbolized
the country’s economic prowess, was  downgraded  by  Standard &
Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service by three levels this year.  “Consumer electronics makers are struggling because of the
decline in the global competitiveness and strong yen, but
business-to-business companies have been stable,” Yasuaki Kudamatsu, senior credit analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co., said in a telephone interview from
 Tokyo . “Nidec benefits from an overwhelming share in, and
control of, their market.”  Bond Debuts  Kyoto, Japan-based Nidec  offered  100 billion yen ($1.26
billion) in a three-part deal last week, pricing five-, seven-
and 10-year bonds at a spread of 19 basis points more than
similar-maturity government debt, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Fujifilm hired Daiwa Securities Group Inc., Nomura Holdings
Inc. and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. for the planned bond sale,
SMBC Nikko said on Nov. 5. The offering will be the Tokyo-based
company’s first sale of straight bonds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan’s Rating and Investment Information Inc. ranks Nidec
A+, its fifth-highest investment grade, according to the data.
Fujifilm is rated Aa3 by Moody’s and AA- by S&P, or the fourth-
highest level at both risk assessors, the data show.  New Leaders  “Apple and Samsung have been in the lead in  information
technology , so Nidec now makes motors for the iPhone,”
Kudamatsu said. “Investors also valued Nidec’s strategy to
raise sales for less volatile markets such as car-mounted and
industrial devices.”  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets,  Kansai Electric  Power
Co. is considering a 300 billion yen loan from as many as five
banks, two people familiar with the matter said yesterday.
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. is arranging the deal and may be
joined by Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.,  Development Bank  of
Japan, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. and  Japan Bank for
International Cooperation , the people said.  Norinchukin Bank set up a 500 billion yen fund for
acquisition and overseas expansion lending to Japanese food and
medical companies operating in  Asia , the company said on its
website yesterday. The loans will range from one to 10 year and
will come in amount of at least 100 million yen, it said.  The yen fell 0.1 percent against the dollar to 79.51 at
9:51 a.m. in Tokyo today. The Japanese currency has weakened 4.7
percent this year, the biggest decliner among the 10 developed-
nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Sovereign Yields  Japan’s benchmark 10-year government bond yields rose half
a basis point to 0.735 percent as of 9:58 a.m. in Tokyo today.
The rate was 86 basis points  less than  yields on similar
maturity  U.S. Treasuries , compared with 108 basis points a year
earlier. One basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Japan’s corporate debt is set for its worst monthly return
in a year, led by a drop in Panasonic’s bonds, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show. The gauge has lost 0.22 percent
this month, compared with a 0.36 percent gain for companies
worldwide, the data show.  Panasonic debt declined 7.87 percent this month, followed
by Kansai Electric handing investors a 1.2 percent loss, while
Sony’s notes dropped 0.89 percent, the index data show.  Rating Cuts  “The secondary market is really terrible now,” Tadashi Matsukawa, who oversees the equivalent of $1.7 billion as head
of fixed-income securities at PineBridge Investments Japan Co.,
said in a telephone interview from Tokyo yesterday. “Power
company bonds are being sold as well as Panasonic’s. Two or
three years ago, these were regarded as very solid.”  S&P reduced  Panasonic’s rating  to BBB, two levels above
junk, or non-investment grade, saying in a Nov. 2 statement that
the TV maker’s recovery to profitability will be slow. Moody’s
put the company’s Baa1 ranking, its third-lowest investment
grade, on negative watch a day earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Moody’s also cut Sony’s rating one level to Baa3 on Nov. 9,
citing falling demand for its televisions and cameras. The
downgrade is the third by the risk assessor this year and ranks
Sony’s debt one level above junk, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Panasonic, Japan’s second-biggest television maker,
projected on Oct. 31 a net loss of 765 billion yen for the year
ending March 31, reversing its previous outlook for a 50 billion
yen profit. That prompted the company to skip a dividend for the
first time since 1950 because of an “urgent need” to improve
its financial position.  Life After TV  Sony and Panasonic are struggling to make their television
operations profitable amid competition from South Korean TV
makers Samsung and LG Electronics Inc. Hitachi Ltd. chose to
shutter its TV business and focus on power stations has helped
as part of a turnaround from a record loss three years ago. The
company last month forecast a 200 billion yen profit this fiscal
year.  Nidec expects its profit to rise 23 percent to 50 billion
yen this fiscal year as sales climb 5.5 percent, the company
forecast on Oct. 24. The motor maker announced in September
plans to buy U.S.-based Kinetek Group Inc. and Avtron Industrial
Automation Inc., saying the acquisitions will help boost revenue
and improve operating margins.  Deal Pipeline  Morinaga & Co. plans to sell 10 billion yen of five-year
bonds, according to a Nov. 12 statement from SMBC Nikko, one of
the managers. The sale by the company, rated A- by Japan Credit
Rating Agency Ltd., its fourth-lowest investment grade, would be
the confectionery products maker’s first notes since 2000, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Daikin Industries Ltd. (6367) , the world’s largest air-conditioner
maker, is preparing to offer bonds in three tranches next month,
according to a Nov. 5 statement from Daiwa.  Lixil Group Corp., an aluminum housing materials maker,
also plans to tap the  bond market  through a two-part offering,
according to a Nov. 6 statement from Nomura, one of the three
managers. Sales by Daikin and Lixil, both rated AA- by JCR,
would both be their first since 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  “Investors are becoming more cautious and selective,”
Hajime Suwa, the head of debt capital markets at Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Securities, this year’s biggest underwriter of
Japan’s corporate bonds, said in a telephone interview from
Tokyo Nov. 12. “Even high-grade issuers can be downgraded all
at once, so investors look carefully into individual companies
before investing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  