-- Nigeria Faces Prolonged Fuel Shortages on Importers’ Poor Credit
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-11-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/nigeria-faces-prolonged-fuel-shortages-on-importers-poor-credit.html
Nigeria,  Africa ’s top crude
producer, may face prolonged fuel shortages with importers
hindered by a lack of credit and the state oil company unable to
meet demand, a retailers’ association said.  Many fuel importers are no longer credit-worthy and can’t
finance new orders, Taofik Lawal, a Lagos-based spokesman for
the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria, said
on Nov. 13 in a phone interview. “The current fuel scarcity may
not be over soon since there’s still disruption in supply.”  Nigeria depends on fuel imports to meet domestic needs
because of inadequate refining capacity. It pays importers the
difference between regulated prices and import costs. President
Goodluck Jonathan’s attempt to end the subsidies in January
provoked a week of strikes and protests, forcing a partial
restoration.  Since then, transactions with importers have come under
increased scrutiny after a parliamentary probe said about $7
billion was paid illegally as subsidies to importers. The
government suspended payments for further verification and
halted fuel-import authorizations, saying that many importers
made false claims to collect payments.  “No bank will want to give you access to funds if they
know that you have problems with government with regards to your
previous imports,” Lawal said.  Fuel imports to Africa’s most-populous nation with more
than 160 million people, which accounts for about 70 percent of
domestic supplies, are funded by loans from banks which must be
repaid within 90 days. Importers are unable to meet lenders’
loan requirements because the government’s verification process
takes longer than stipulated repayment deadlines.  Outstanding Loans  Lenders are trying to cut their exposure to the risk
arising from payment delays related to fuel importers, said
Bunmi Asaolu, head of equity research at FBN Capital Ltd.  “The backlog of unprocessed claims is crowding out a lot
of the legitimate importers,” he said. “Banks don’t want to
lend to sectors riskier than what they would have liked.”  In September, the Central Bank of Nigeria barred 113
companies, including fuel importers, from taking further credit
after they defaulted on repayments of outstanding loans.
Importers accounted for 754 billion naira ($4.8 billion) from a
total of 2.7 trillion naira ($17 billion) of non-performing
loans that threatened the country’s banking industry in 2009,
prompting regulatory intervention, according to the central
bank.  The chief executive officers of eight of the country’s 24
banks were fired by the central bank for their handling of the
crisis, and the lenders bailed out with 620 billion naira. The
Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria was set up to acquire the
banks’ bad debt.  Long Lines  Zenon Petroleum & Gas Ltd. owed 141 billion naira to a
group of banks, MRS Oil Nigeria Plc owed 91.6 billion naira and
Capital Oil & Gas Ltd owed 48 billion naira, according to the
list released by the central bank.  “If a company is on that list, then banks would not want
to go against the central bank,” Asaolu said.  Long lines of cars that intermittently form at fuel
stations in Abuja, the capital, Lagos and several major cities
have continued for for several weeks. Fuel stations have shut
down, citing lack of supplies from the state-owned Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp.  30 Days  The NNPC, as the state oil company is known, has enough
gasoline to meet domestic demand for at least 30 days, Fidel
Pepple, a spokesman for the company, said by phone yesterday
from Abuja. “As far as we know the products are available” and
“we’re doing the distribution to the best of our abilities,”
he said.  “The government needs to fully deregulate the industry
otherwise the long queues will continue,” said  Bismarck Rewane ,
chief executive officer of Financial Derivatives Co., a Lagos-
based business advisory.  Four state-run refineries built to meet domestic demand are
in disrepair and are producing well below installed capacity of
445,000 barrels of crude a day. Nigeria exchanges 60,000 barrels
a day of crude for products with Trafigura Beheer BV and a
similar amount with Societe Ivoirienne de Raffinage’s refinery
in Ivory Coast, according to NNPC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  