-- Japan Prepares for Election With Noda’s DPJ Poised for Loss
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-11-15T08:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/noda-to-dissolve-diet-nov-16-paving-way-for-japan-election-1-.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  will dissolve parliament tomorrow, triggering an election
that polls show his party will lose three years after ending the
Liberal  Democratic Party ’s half-century grip on power.  The ruling Democratic Party of  Japan  decided the national
vote for the lower house will be held Dec. 16, acting party
secretary-general Jun Azumi said. The deal to bring forward
elections due in August came after LDP leader Shinzo Abe agreed
to end an impasse over financing the budget and to support a
plan to reduce the number of Diet seats.  Noda’s DPJ has seen its public approval slump below 20
percent after three prime ministers in as many years failed to
revive growth, end deflation or enact campaign promises on
social spending. An LDP win would reinstate Abe, who advocates a
tougher policy toward  China  and greater central bank monetary
stimulus, to the premiership he quit in 2007 after 12 months.  “The likely result is a bloodbath for the DPJ,” said  Jeff Kingston , professor of Japanese politics at  Temple University ’s
 Tokyo  campus. “The economy is definitely the major issue facing
Japan and because a lot of those economic and fiscal problems
are intractable, that creates a temptation for leaders to dabble
in other issues that aren’t so difficult.”  An election means three of  Asia ’s four largest economies
will have new governments in 2013.  South Korea ’s vote for
president is Dec. 19, with the winner taking office in February.
Xi Jinping today replaced  Hu Jintao  as head of China’s Communist
Party and is set to become president in March.  Cutting Seats  Speaking in parliament a day after the DPJ reached a deal
with two opposition parties on legislation to authorize deficit-
financing bonds, Noda said he would dissolve the lower house if
a deal was reached to cut the number of lawmakers in the
chamber. Abe agreed to the proposal, which would go into effect
after the next election.  “Let’s do this,” Noda said yesterday. “Based on that, I
will dissolve parliament on Nov. 16.” Elections must be held
within 40 days of the dissolution of parliament.  The lower house today approved the bill to issue 38.3
trillion yen ($477 billion) in debt to cover about 40 percent of
 government spending  for the year ending in March, and the
opposition-controlled upper chamber will vote tomorrow.  The yen today sank to a six-month low against the dollar
after Abe called on the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to provide unlimited
monetary stimulus until deflation is overcome. The yen traded as
low as 80.95 per dollar in Tokyo as markets priced in the
possibility of more easing by the central bank if the LDP wins.  ‘Increase Pressure’  The next government will get a chance to reshape the
central bank’s leadership, with Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s
term scheduled to end in April and his two deputies’ tenures set
to end in March.  Should the LDP win, Abe “will then aim for higher
inflation and increase pressure for the BOJ to ease further,”
said  Masafumi Yamamoto , chief foreign-exchange strategist in
Tokyo at Barclays Plc. “That speculation has triggered a sell-
off in the yen.”  Japan’s currency has risen more than 12 percent since the
DPJ took power in September 2009, while the benchmark  Nikkei
Stock Average (NKY)  has fallen 14 percent. A stronger yen erodes the
repatriated value of overseas sales, reducing profits for
consumer electronic companies such as  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Sharp Corp.
and automobile makers like Nissan Motor Co.  Abe also advocates a harder line on China in a territorial
dispute that has hurt Asia’s two biggest economies. He said
today that China is challenging Japan’s administration of
islands known as Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese, and
pledged to increase defense and Coast Guard spending.  Previous Tenure  His call this week for democracy in  Tibet  at a meeting with
the  Dalai Lama  sparked a fresh protest from China.  The LDP leader’s China stance contrasts with his actions
when he became prime minister in September 2006. He made Beijing
his first overseas trip to strengthen ties, apologizing for
Japanese aggression in Asia in the first half of the 20th
century.  Abe quit after a year, complaining of health problems,
creating a revolving door of prime ministers.  “Abe was a disaster as a leader in 2007,” Kingston said.
“The only thing we can hope is that last time as a candidate he
made all sorts of provocative comments, but as leader his first
action in office was to go to China for fence mending.”  The DPJ in 2009 ousted the LDP from more than 50 years of
almost uninterrupted rule by pledging to cut public spending,
reduce the power of the bureaucracy and not raise taxes.  Sales Tax  Noda, his party’s third leader since then, pushed through a
Ministry of Finance-backed bill in August doubling the five
percent  sales tax , sparking a party revolt that led to more than
50 DPJ legislators leaving.  His disapproval rating rose 5 percentage points to 64
percent, the highest since he took office in September 2011, an
Asahi newspaper poll published Nov. 13 showed. His approval
rating was unchanged from three weeks ago at 18 percent.  At least three lawmakers today announced they would leave
the DPJ, endangering Noda’s majority in the lower house.  Asked which party they would vote for in the proportional
representation section if the election were held now, 29 percent
of respondents to the Asahi poll picked the LDP, compared with
12 percent who opted for the DPJ. The paper surveyed 1,611
people and provided no margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  