-- Norton Rose Merges With Fulbright & Jaworski to Form Top-10 Firm
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-11-14T16:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/norton-rose-merges-with-fulbright-jaworski-to-form-top-10-firm.html
Norton Rose  LLP and Fulbright &
Jaworski LLP are merging to put it among the 10 biggest law
firms in the world by revenue.  The partners approved the combination earlier this month,
the firms said today. It will operate as Norton Rose Fulbright
from June 2013 and be one of the 10 biggest by revenue,
according to American Lawyer magazine’s 2012  law firm  survey.  The deal, which creates a trans-Atlantic 3,800-attorney
firm with revenue of $1.9 billion, is one of the most
significant marriages since the 2010 tie-up between Washington,
D.C.-based Hogan & Hartson and the U.K.’s Lovells. London-based
Norton Rose has spent much of the last two years significantly
expanding its global footprint through mergers in Canada,
Australia and  South Africa .  “You cannot claim to be a truly global law firm without
strength and depth in the U.S., as it represents over 50 percent
of the world’s legal services market -- and Fulbright is a good
name,” Tony Williams, founder of legal industry advisory firm
Jomati Consultants LLP, said in a telephone interview.  The combined firm, operating under a so-called Swiss verein
corporate structure, will have 55 offices worldwide to service
clients like  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , the Brentford, U.K.-based
drugmaker, and  New York  insurer  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)   “We have been looking at the U.S. market for a number of
years, seeking a firm that meets our requirements,” Norton Rose
Chief Executive Officer Peter Martyr, who will be the global CEO
of the merged firm, said in today’s statement. Fulbright “is
financially strong, with forward-looking management and similar
strategic growth aspirations.”  Norton Rose reported global revenues of $1.3 billion
dollars in the last financial year while Fulbright posted $597.5
million in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  