-- NWR Jumps Most in Five Months on Unexpected Profit: Mover
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2012-11-14T16:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/nwr-third-quarter-net-falls-on-lower-coking-coal-prices.html
New World Resources Plc (NWR) , the biggest
producer of coking coal in the Czech Republic, jumped the most
in two months after reporting a third-quarter profit while
analysts expected a loss.  The shares rose 3.6 percent, the biggest gain since Sept.
14, to 80 koruna today in Prague.  NWR said profit in the three months through September
dropped to 12.8 million euros ($16.3 million) from 34 million
euros a year earlier, the Amsterdam-registered company said
today in a statement. That beat the median estimate of seven
analysts for a 4.4 million-euro loss in a Bloomberg survey.  “The profit numbers surpassed even the most optimistic
estimates, mainly thanks to lower operational costs,” Bohumil
Trampota, an analyst at J&T Banka AS, said in a note.
“Nevertheless, the outlook for the rest of the year and for
2013 is difficult.”  Europe ’s debt crisis has damped demand for coking coal as
steelmakers such as ArcelorMittal brace for slowing economic
growth and global metallurgical-coal prices have tumbled this
year on a manufacturing slowdown in  China . While NWR’s third-
quarter revenue fell 20 percent to 319 million euros, the miner
cut operating costs and managed to report a net profit.  “The results were clearly affected by the current market
environment, you see a significant drop in revenue year on the
year,” Marek Jelinek, the company’s chief financial officer,
said in a telephone interview. “Where we did deliver was in
controlling operational expenses.”  Sales Target  NWR cut its full-year sales target on Oct. 1 to a maximum
of 10.3 million tons of coal, split equally between thermal and
coking coal. The company also expects to sell between 600
kilotons and 700 kilotons of coke this fiscal year.  Demand for coking coal is slowing among European
steelmakers and carmakers as the European economy continues to
suffer from the sovereign debt crisis, Jelinek said. Operating
income plunged 66 percent during the third quarter.  “The market visibility right now is extremely poor,” the
executive said. “Current expectations of eco growth don’t bode
well for any significant growth in production next year. That
will probably depress demand for coking coal.”  NWR owns four mines and two coking facilities in the Czech
Republic and sells to customers in central Europe, including the
Czech unit of  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s largest steelmaker.
Gareth Penny became the executive chairman on Oct. 1., replacing
Mike Salamon.  The company is reviewing its plan for the Debiensko mine in
 Poland  where it encountered unexpected technical difficulties.
NWR cut planned investment in the mine to 5 million euros from
50 million euros and is carrying out a technical review which it
expects to complete early next year, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  