-- Oaktree’s Kirchheimer Says Carried Interest Tax to Rise
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-11-14T17:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/oaktree-s-kirchheimer-says-carried-interest-tax-to-rise.html
David Kirchheimer, chief financial
officer of  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) , the world’s largest
distressed-debt investor, said taxes on carried interest will
increase as lawmakers look for ways to reduce the federal debt.  “I think it’s a forgone conclusion that carried-interest
rates will go to the so-called ordinary rates and that the
portion of them that historically has been taxed at long-term
capital gains rates will probably disappear,” Kirchheimer said
today at  Bank of America Corp. ’s Banking and Financial Services
Conference in New York.  Members of the  U.S. Congress  have proposed removing the
treatment of carried interest, the share of profit from
investments that’s allocated to the general partners of private-
equity and hedge funds, as a capital gain. That treatment allows
the profits to be taxed at a 15 percent rate, rather than the 35
percent top rate that applies to ordinary income.  The change would have less impact on Los Angeles-based
Oaktree than on buyout firms, Kirchheimer said, because
Oaktree’s funds collect a lower portion of carried interest than
traditional buyout funds.  Kirchheimer said the benefit of a change by Congress would
be removing business uncertainty about corporate and personal
tax rates. The anxiety regarding the potential change is
probably worse than its eventual effects, similar to preparing
for a visit to the dentist, he said.  “There’s some anxiety and then you sit in the dentist
chair and you get through it, it’s not so bad, and you come out
the other side and you’re smiling, your teeth look great and
you’re feeling good,” he said. “I can’t wait to get through
it.”  Oaktree oversees $81 billion of assets under management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  