-- Obama Tells Republicans ‘Go After Me’ Instead of Rice
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-11-14T21:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/obama-tells-republicans-go-after-me-instead-of-rice.html
President  Barack Obama  chastised two
Republican senators for threatening to block UN Ambassador Susan Rice as a potential nominee for secretary of state, saying she
had “nothing to do” with circumstances involving the death of
four Americans in an attack in Libya in September.  If the senators want to go after someone in this
administration, “they should go after me,” Obama said today at
a White House news conference. He said “to besmirch her
reputation is outrageous.”  While declining to say whom he’s considering for Cabinet
posts in his second term, Obama said that if he decides Rice is
the best candidate to replace Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , “then I will nominate her.”  Republican Senators  John McCain  of Arizona and  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina said today that they would seek to
block a Rice nomination, citing her comments days after the
Sept. 11 attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya, that
killed Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans.  Rice, 47, said on Sunday television talk shows on Sept. 16
that the assault began as a spontaneous protest that was
“hijacked” by militants. Republicans have questioned whether
Rice was trying to conceal that terrorists were behind the
assault.  “She gave her best understanding” of the intelligence
that had been provided to her, Obama said today.  “If Senator McCain and  Senator Graham  and others want to
go after somebody, they should go after me,” Obama said.  Rice has done “exemplary work” and represented the U.S.
at the UN “with skill and professionalism and toughness and
grace,” Obama said.  Whatever Necessary  At a news conference today calling for a special Senate
committee to probe the Benghazi attack, McCain said, “We will
do whatever is necessary to block the nomination that is within
our power as far as  Susan Rice  is concerned.”  Graham said Rice is “so disconnected from reality I don’t
trust her,” adding moments later that “somebody has got to
start paying a price around this place.”  Graham also said Rice failed in her role as UN ambassador.  “I don’t think we’re doing very well in the UN, quite
frankly,” he said. “Not only did we not do a good job with
Libya, but since then China and Russia have been walking all
over us. I’m not so sure she’s the strongest advocate.”  ‘Totally Unprepared’  After Obama’s remarks, McCain, Graham and Senator  Kelly Ayotte , a New Hampshire Republican, made their case on the
Senate floor for a select panel. McCain took on Obama for what
he said were contradictory assessments of an attack perpetrated
by terrorists.  “The president of the United States did not tell the
American people the truth about the attacks that took four brave
Americans’ lives that went on for seven hours, for which we were
totally unprepared,” he said.  Democrats, including Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of
Nevada, said today they would oppose a select committee. Senator
 Carl Levin  of Michigan called the idea premature, citing
inquiries already under way by congressional panels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  