-- Obama Meets With CEOs as He Seeks Leverage in Debt Talks
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-11-14T14:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/obama-meets-with-ceos-as-he-seeks-leverage-in-debt-talks.html
President  Barack Obama ’s meeting
with a dozen corporate leaders at the White House today is his
latest overture to the business community as he works to build
support for a debt deal that includes new taxes on wealthy
Americans.  When the group gathers at 2:45 p.m. to discuss ways to
avoid the so-called fiscal cliff, Obama will emphasize
eliminating economic uncertainty by extending tax cuts for
middle-income Americans that are due to expire at the end of the
year, according to an administration official.  The president met yesterday with top labor leaders and
pledged that he wouldn’t extend tax cuts for top earners, also
set to lapse. On Friday he will meet with Democratic and
Republican congressional leadership to officially begin
negotiations.  Obama is opening talks with lawmakers by reiterating the
plan from his fiscal 2013 budget, which called for $1.6 trillion
in additional revenue, mostly from high-income taxpayers, White
House spokesman  Jay Carney  said yesterday. That’s twice the
amount that House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican,
discussed in negotiations last year.  Many of the executives with whom Obama is meeting have
backed his call for a deal that combines new taxes and spending
cuts. They include General Electric Co. Chief Executive Officer
 Jeffrey Immelt , Ford Motor Co. CEO  Alan Mulally , Honeywell
International Inc. CEO  David Cote  and American Express Co. CEO
Kenneth I. Chenault.  Meeting Executives  The other business leaders scheduled to attend are Aetna
Inc. CEO Mark Bertolini; Xerox Corp. CEO  Ursula Burns ; Dow
Chemical Co. CEO  Andrew Liveris ; Procter & Gamble Co. CEO Bob McDonald; PepsiCo Inc. CEO Indra Nooyi; International Business
Machines Corp. CEO Ginni Rometty; Wal-Mart Stores Inc. CEO  Mike Duke ; and Chevron Corp. CEO John Watson.  The fiscal cliff, a $607 billion combination of automatic
spending cuts and tax increases, is scheduled to take effect in
January. If Congress doesn’t act, taxes on ordinary income,
 capital gains , dividends and estates will increase, pushing the
top  tax rate  to 39.6 percent from 35 percent. Automatic spending
cuts will take effect and the economy will probably go into a
 recession  in the first half of 2013, according to the
Congressional Budget Office.  Obama is proposing to cut the  deficit  by $4 trillion over
the next decade. That includes $1.1 trillion in budget cuts
already agreed to as part of a deal last year to raise the
government’s debt limit.  Seeking Support  As he meets with outside groups, Obama is also building
support around his cause with today’s news conference, his first
since winning a second term on Nov. 6. After Thanksgiving, he
plans hold some campaign-style events outside of  Washington  to
rally public support.  Xerox’s Burns, in an interview yesterday, said she expects
that Obama will also want to discuss his relationship with the
business community as well as immigration, energy and
infrastructure.  “It’s always the same things,” said Burns, who has been a
frequent visitor to the White House for similar meetings. “You
could play a tape and we’d all be saying the same things. It’s
not a new conversation.”  “We have to work with him and Congress to get things done
that will be useful to businesses, and the thing is, what’s good
for business is often good for the country,” she said.  Tax Cuts  Democrats, including Obama, want to extend only the tax
breaks affecting individual income below $200,000 and married
couples’ income below $250,000. Republicans want to extend all
of the tax cuts for a year and then overhaul the tax code.  Exit polls conducted during the Nov. 6 balloting found that
47 percent of voters said they favored letting taxes rise for
couples with annual incomes of $250,000 or more, and 13 percent
said they should go up for everyone.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday that
it will be necessary to raise personal income tax rates on the
wealthiest Americans to reduce long-term budget deficits because
capping deductions won’t raise enough revenue.  Obama is “not prepared to extend the upper-income tax
cuts,” Geithner said Tuesday at the Wall Street Journal’s CEO
Council meeting in Washington. “There’s obviously universal
support for the middle-class tax cuts. Doing that would remove
the greatest source of anxiety and much of the greatest risk in
the fiscal cliff.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  