-- Obama Is President but Compromise Is King
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-14T19:43:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/obama-is-president-but-compromise-is-king.html
(Corrects description of tax increases and spending cuts in
fourth paragraph.)  In his first news conference since
his re-election, President  Barack Obama  said, “I’m open to
compromise and I’m open to new ideas” when it comes to solving
the nation’s fiscal challenges.  That’s heartening news. When Obama sits down with
congressional leaders for a fiscal chat this week, he should
broker an agreement to limit the individual tax breaks that  cost 
the U.S. Treasury more than $1 trillion every year.  Such a deal, which seemed unthinkable just a few months
ago, now appears within reach as some Republicans signal a
willingness to accept higher taxes as part of a deficit-
reduction deal. “We cannot be, we must not be, the party that
simply protects the rich so they get to keep their toys,” said
Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal .  The best ground for compromise appears to be scaling back
so-called tax expenditures, the myriad deductions, exclusions
and credits that allow individuals -- particularly the
wealthiest Americans -- to lower their tax bills. Agreeing to
cap the value of these deductions would be a significant step
toward not only addressing crushing deficits but also averting
the fiscal cliff, the $607 billion in tax increases and spending
cuts scheduled to take effect in January. Democrats insist any
plan to avoid the cliff include higher taxes on the rich, which
could be achieved by limiting tax breaks. Without action, those
fiscal changes  threaten  to plunge the U.S. back into recession.  Deficit Solution  Limiting tax breaks is only part of the deficit solution,
of course, which must also include entitlement reform that
controls spending on  Social Security , Medicare and Medicaid. Tax
changes that correct inequities, including eliminating favorable
tax treatment for carried interest,  capital gains  and dividends,
must also be in the mix.  Democrats have long insisted that any fix include higher
tax rates on the top 2 percent of earners. The president
reiterated at the news conference that he won’t extend the Bush
tax cuts for the wealthiest. Yet he also said he’ll consider new
ideas that allow the U.S. to raise revenue, maintain
progressivity and ensure the middle class “isn’t getting hit.”  He should seize the opportunity within reach. Limiting tax
expenditures would bring in new  revenue , primarily from
wealthier Americans, without raising tax rates. Setting a
deduction cap at $25,000, for example, would  generate  about $1.3
trillion in new revenue over 10 years -- within spitting
distance of the $1.6 trillion in new taxes Obama has called for.  A cap would also rein in distortive government subsidies
that drive up  home prices  and health-care costs and misallocate
capital. Research  shows  that the mortgage-interest deduction,
for instance, encourages homeowners to  borrow  too much and buy
bigger homes than they need, while siphoning capital that could
be more productively deployed elsewhere.  Deductions could be limited in a variety of ways depending
on how much revenue is desired and from whom. Obama has  proposed 
limiting the benefit of tax expenditures for the top 2 percent
of earners, which would raise about $288 billion over 10 years,
according to the  Tax Policy Center . An intriguing idea, floated
by Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  during the presidential
campaign, is to limit deductions to a certain dollar amount and
allow individuals to pick which tax breaks they use. It’s a less
progressive plan than Obama’s because it would raise taxes on
more than the wealthiest, including those earning less than
$200,000.  Broken Promise  That would violate Obama’s campaign promise not to raise
taxes on the middle class, but it’s a promise he’ll have to
break sooner or later. A cap on deductions would still hit the
rich the hardest, because the value of tax breaks increases with
income. Households in the top income quintile received two-
thirds of the benefits of tax expenditures in 2011, with average
savings of more than $30,000. Those in the bottom three
quintiles (with incomes under about $60,000) saved an average of
less than $2,000, collectively about one-fifth of the total tax
savings.  With a $25,000 cap, about 14 percent of the increased tax
revenue would be derived from those earning less than $112,000
and roughly 19 percent would come from those with incomes
between $112,000 and $228,000, according to Tax Policy Center
 estimates . Almost 52 percent of the increase would hit those in
the top 1 percent. A taxpayer earning between $100,000 and
$200,000 would see an average increase of about $2,491; someone
earning $1 million or more would see an almost $14,000 increase.  House Speaker  John Boehner  is sure to come under intense
pressure from anti-tax crusaders. But Obama could hasten a deal
by dropping his insistence that the Bush tax cuts expire for the
top two tax brackets. That’s anathema to Democrats -- Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  this week  reiterated  Obama’s
opposition to such a move -- yet it’s the only way Republicans
might accept a deal. And if the aim is to get the rich to pay a
little bit more -- as they should -- closing loopholes will
achieve that.  One way is to push forward with Obama’s proposal to tax
dividends, capital gains and carried interest, a form of income
that accrues to hedge fund and private equity managers, at
higher rates. That would boost the government’s coffers by an
additional $242 billion over 10 years, according to  U.S.
Treasury   estimates . Obama should insist on that change as part
of a deal to maintain the Bush tax rates on top earners.  Washington no longer has the luxury of delay. It must
strike a deal quickly to avert looming spending cuts and tax
increases and to set a path for long-term deficit reduction.
Raising taxes and cutting spending will hurt. But the fact that
Republicans and Democrats are now coalescing around a similar
idea to raise revenue by scaling back tax expenditures is no
small feat. Obama should seize this moment to strike a deal and
show voters he got their message: Compromise is king.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 