-- Obama-Backed Cyber Bill Blocked by Senate Republicans
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-11-14T23:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/obama-backed-cyber-bill-blocked-by-senate-republicans.html
Senate Republicans today killed
cybersecurity legislation backed by President  Barack Obama ,
heading off Democratic calls for action this year on a law to
guard against computer attacks.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, moved
to reconsider a bill that was blocked in August by Republicans
who said it would lead to more government regulation of
business. On a 51-47 vote, supporters failed to get the 60 votes
needed under Senate rules to bring the bill to a vote on
passage.  “Everybody should understand, cybersecurity is dead for
this Congress,” Reid said after the vote.  The legislation, introduced in February by Senators  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent, and  Susan Collins , a Maine
Republican, would create a system of voluntary cybersecurity
standards for companies that operate infrastructure such as
power grids and chemical plants considered essential to U.S.
national security. The bill would also encourage companies and
the government to share information on cyber threats.  The vote came as the Obama administration considers issuing
an executive order to implement some elements of the bill. Obama
has signed a separate directive that sets policy for how the
government handles threats in cyberspace, according to three
current and former administration officials.  Republicans and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s
largest business lobby, have opposed the legislation’s voluntary
standards, saying they would be a back door to  government
regulation  and fail to keep pace with evolving threats in
cyberspace. The chamber released a letter today reiterating its
opposition.  ‘Second Chance’  “We’re being given a second chance to raise our
defenses,” Lieberman said before the vote, saying the nation
needs protections against cyber terrorists and criminals. He
referred to assaults this year on the computer network of Saudi
Arabian Oil Co., known as  Saudi Aramco , and websites of major
U.S. banks.  Obama administration officials have continued to warn about
cyber threats capable of widespread damage. U.S. Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  in a speech in New York last month said
computer assaults by other countries or extremist groups could
be as destructive as the Sept. 11 attacks.  Senate Republicans, including  John McCain  of Arizona and
 Kay Bailey Hutchison  of Texas, have criticized White House
consideration of an executive order and urged more limited
legislation to encourage government and companies to share
information about cyber threats, along the lines of a bill they
introduced in March.  Veto Threat  The Republican-controlled  House of Representatives  in April
passed a similar information-sharing measure, sponsored by Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican who leads the House Intelligence
Committee, and the panel’s top Democrat, C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger of Maryland.  The Obama administration has threatened to veto the House
measure, saying it doesn’t safeguard the privacy of consumer
data that may be shared or protect the nation’s infrastructure
from cyber attacks.  The Lieberman bill is S. 3414. The McCain bill is S. 3342.
The Rogers bill is H.R. 3523.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  