-- Obama Issues Presidential Directive on U.S. Cyber Operations
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-11-14T20:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/obama-issues-presidential-directive-on-u-s-cyber-operations.html
President  Barack Obama  has signed a
directive that sets policy for how the U.S. government handles
threats in cyberspace, according to three current and former
administration officials familiar with its contents.  The directive opens the door to a bigger role for the
Defense Department, directing it to provide civilian agencies
with technical help on cybersecurity challenges, according to a
former senior intelligence official familiar with the directive.  The directive is separate from an executive order the Obama
administration is considering to implement elements of stalled
Senate legislation that would set voluntary cybersecurity
standards for private-sector infrastructure such as power grids
and chemical plants considered essential to national security.  The classified directive, which sets policy for how the
government performs cybersecurity operations, updates a document
issued in 2004, said a senior administration official who wasn’t
authorized to discuss the specifics.  It coincides with administration warnings about potentially
damaging cyber attacks. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said in a
speech last month that the Pentagon and American intelligence
agencies are seeing an increase in cyber threats that could
become as devastating as the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks if they
aren’t stopped.  Panetta said the Pentagon is “finalizing the most
comprehensive change to our rules of engagement in cyberspace in
seven years.” The Pentagon must be prepared to defend its own
networks as well as national interests as a whole, he said.  Senate Republicans in August blocked a Obama-backed
cybersecurity bill sponsored by  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut
independent, and  Susan Collins , a Maine Republican. Republicans
and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said the legislation’s
standards would be a back door to more government regulation of
business and fail to keep pace with evolving cyber threats.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
he wants to bring the bill back to the Senate today for a vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  