-- Loeb’s Third Point Increases Holdings in AIG and Apple
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-11-14T22:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/loeb-s-third-point-increases-holdings-in-aig-and-apple.html
Third Point LLC, the New York-based
hedge fund run by  Daniel Loeb , added to shares of American
International Group Inc. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in the third quarter,
according to a regulatory filing.  Third Point increased its holding of New York-based insurer
 AIG (AIG)  by 21.3 million common shares to 23.5 million, valued at
$771 million as of Sept. 30, according to a filing today with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The firm raised its
stake in Cupertino, California-based Apple by 285,000 common
shares to 710,000, valued at $474 million.  Third Point said in a letter to investors last month that
AIG’s shares have “significant upside” and that the insurer
may start paying a dividend as the U.S. Treasury Department
winds down the stake it took during the 2008 financial crisis.
Moore Capital Management LP, the hedge fund run by billionaire
Louis Moore Bacon, also said today in a regulatory filing that
it bought shares of AIG.  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  was Third Point’s largest position by market
value as of Sept. 30, with 73 million shares valued at $1.17
billion. Loeb, 50, pushed to shake up Yahoo’s board and flagged
discrepancies in former Chief Executive Officer  Scott Thompson ’s
resume, which resulted in Thompson’s decision to step down in
May. As part of Loeb’s agreement with Yahoo to drop his proxy
fight, he become a director along with two Third Point nominees,
Harry Wilson and Michael Wolf.  Third Point is an event-driven fund, betting on companies
facing mergers, spinoffs and bankruptcies. Elissa Doyle, a
spokeswoman for Third Point, declined to comment.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F within 45 days of each quarter’s
end to list their U.S.-traded stocks, options and convertible
bonds. The filings don’t show non-U.S. securities or how much
cash the firms hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 