-- Ohio’s Provisional-Ballot Rule Unfair, Judge Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-11-14T16:43:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/ohio-s-provisional-ballot-rule-unfair-judge-says.html
The  Ohio  secretary of state’s new
rule on counting provisional ballots risked denying citizens’
rights to vote and ignored state law, a federal judge said.  Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted, a Republican, issued a
directive to county election officials on Nov. 2 requiring the
rejection of a provisional ballot if the voter failed to record
the type of identification used when casting the vote.  A labor union and a homeless advocates’ coalition asked
U.S. District Judge Algenon Marbley in Columbus, Ohio, to stop
authorities from rejecting such ballots, citing an Ohio law that
requires poll workers, not voters, to record the information.
Marbley found the rule “violates substantive due process,” and
ordered the ballots counted where voters didn’t provide the type
of identification.  “For an executive official of the state to flout state law
in arbitrarily reassigning a poll worker’s statutory duty to a
voter, with the result being the disenfranchisement of the
voter, is fundamentally unfair and constitutionally
impermissible,” Marbley said yesterday in a 17-page ruling. The
rule “imposes an impermissible burden,” he said.  The lawsuit is one of more than two dozen that contested
statutes and rules imposed since Obama’s election in 2008 by
Republican-dominated legislatures and officials across the
country -- measure aimed in part at fighting voter fraud,
proponents contend. Opponents argue they are an effort to
suppress the votes of lower-income people and the elderly who
may be more inclined to vote for Democrats.  Ballot Integrity  Lawyers for the state contended at a Nov. 7 hearing before
Marbley that the rule was necessary to protect the integrity of
the ballot, the judge said. He rejected the argument and
criticized the fact that Husted’s directive was issued four days
before the Nov. 6 election.  “The secretary, by admission of counsel, engaged in no
fact-finding which suggested such a change would improve the
integrity of the voting system,” Marbley said. “The
surreptitious manner in which the secretary went about
implementing this last minute change to the election rules casts
serious doubt on his protestations of good faith.”  Husted will appeal the ruling “because it allows
potentially fraudulent votes to be counted,” Matt McClellan,
the secretary’s spokesman, said today in an e-mail.  “By eliminating the ID requirement on provisional ballots,
the ruling is contrary to Ohio law and undermines the integrity
of the election,” he said.  A provisional ballot is used when a voter’s credentials are
challenged or inadequate. Ohio allows voters to provide
identification within 10 days after the elections to validate
the provisional ballot. The tally will be made at public
meetings from Nov. 17 to Nov. 21, Marbley said in a court filing
last week.  More than 200,000 provisional ballots were cast in Ohio
this election, according to state officials.  The cases are  Service Employees International Union , Local
1 v. Husted, 12-cv-00562, and Northeast Ohio Coalition for the
Homeless, 06-cv-00896, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Ohio (Columbus).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit  at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net . 