-- Oil Advances in New York After Airstrikes by Israel
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-11-14T22:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/oil-fluctuates-after-report-showing-declining.html
Oil advanced after Israel carried
out a series of airstrikes in the  Gaza Strip  that killed the
leader of Hamas’s militant wing, bolstering concern that unrest
in the  Middle East  will intensify and affect supplies.  Futures rose 1.1 percent after an attack killed Ahmed al-
Jabari, according to Ashraf al-Qedra, a spokesman for the Hamas-
run Health Ministry. Israel said it was ready to use ground
troops to end attacks after more than 115 rockets were fired
from Gaza into Israel this week.  “The Israeli strike on Gaza has raised the security
premium,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a
New York-based energy hedge fund. “The Israelis made it clear
that this may be the first of many strikes. This episode raises
tension in an already troubled region.”  Crude oil for December delivery advanced 94 cents to $86.32
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since Nov. 6. Prices are down 13 percent this year.  Prices were little changed after the  American Petroleum
Institute  reported U.S. oil inventories rose 1.35 million
barrels to 373 million last week. The December oil contract
traded at $86.45 a barrel at 5:12 p.m. in electronic trading.  Brent oil for December settlement, which expires tomorrow,
rose $1.35, or 1.2 percent, to end the session at $109.61 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The more
actively traded January contract gained $1.14 to $108.48.  “This is a clear statement that we won’t continue to
tolerate this violence against us,” Israeli Vice Prime Minister
Silvan Shalom said.  Israel  is prepared for an escalation in
attacks from Gaza in response, Shalom said.  Israel followed the initial attack on Jabari with multiple
airstrikes. Columns of smoke were rising above Gaza, according
to eyewitnesses. The Israeli army said it called up reserves in
advance of any possible infantry assault.  ‘Direct Hits’  Mortar shells from  Syria  have also drawn retaliatory
strikes from Israel. Israeli tank fire across the Syrian
frontier on Nov. 12 was aimed at the source of the mortar fire
and scored “direct hits,” the army said in an e-mailed
statement.  “The Israelis and Hamas are lobbing missiles at each
other, which isn’t unusual,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market
strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis ,
which oversees $1.4 billion. “The fact that Israel is also
exchanging fire with Syria is increasing worry that everything
is going to hit the fan.”  President  Barack Obama  said at a White House news
conference today that he wants a ‘diplomatic’ resolution to the
conflict over the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear program.
Sanctions aimed at stopping the Islamic republic’s atomic
program have hindered its ability to export crude oil.  Iranian Output  Iranian crude  production  declined 200,000 barrels a day to
2.65 million in October, the lowest level since February 1990,
according to a Bloomberg survey of  oil companies , producers and
analysts.  Countries in the Middle East and North Africa were
responsible for 36 percent of global oil production and held 52
percent of proved reserves in 2011, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy.  “Prices surged on the initial shock that Israel killed the
Hamas leader,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at Price
Futures Group in  Chicago . “Tension between Israel and Hamas is
ongoing, not something new.”  Oil declined earlier on reports that U.S. retail sales and
wholesale prices decreased in October. Purchases fell 0.3
percent, according to the Commerce Department in  Washington . The
 median  forecast of 83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a 0.2 percent drop.  Wholesale Prices  Wholesale prices slipped for the first time in five months,
the Labor Department reported. The 0.2 percent decline in the
 producer price index  came after a 1.1 percent increase the prior
month. A 0.2 percent gain was the  median  estimate in a Bloomberg
survey. Excluding volatile food and energy, the so-called  core 
measure fell 0.2 percent, the first drop since November 2010.  The dollar slid as much as 0.6 percent against the euro on
the American economic figures and concern that the U.S. won’t
make progress with its budget. A weaker dollar and stronger euro
increase the appeal of raw materials as an investment.  An Energy Department report tomorrow will probably show
that U.S. crude  stockpiles  rose 2.65 million barrels last week,
according to the median of 10 analyst responses in a Bloomberg
survey. Supplies of gasoline and distillate fuel, a category
that includes heating oil and diesel, declined in the week ended
Nov. 9, the survey showed.  The department is releasing supply data at 11 a.m. tomorrow
in Washington, a day later than usual because of the Veterans
Day holiday on Nov. 12.  Fuel Prices  Gasoline for December delivery climbed 2.52 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $2.679 a gallon in  New York . December heating oil
increased 2.74 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $2.9882 a gallon.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 655,543
contracts as of 5:10 p.m. Volume totaled 829,142 contracts
yesterday, the most since May 4. Open interest was 1.54 million,
the least since Sept. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  