-- Omani Developer Tilal Plans Debut Islamic Bond Sale for Mall
-- B y   F a i s a l   M a n t h e r i   a n d   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2012-11-14T08:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/omani-developer-tilal-plans-debut-islamic-bond-sale-for-mall.html
Tilal Development Company SAOC plans
to raise 53 million rials ($138 million) in the first quarter in
 Oman ’s first corporate Islamic bond sale to fund a mall
expansion in the Persian Gulf nation.  The real estate company will use proceeds of the sale to
expand the Muscat Grand Mall in the Omani capital, Tilal said in
an e-mailed statement. Amanie Advisory House of Oman is advising
on the issuance, it said. The sale will be the first for any
company in the majority Muslim nation, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Companies and government’s in the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council, which includes Oman and  Saudi Arabia , have
stepped up sales of debt that comply with Islam’s ban on
interest to take advantage of near record-low borrowing costs.
Sukuk sales in the GCC have more than tripled this year to $20
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We are also glad to be pioneering the sukuk market in
Oman and hope that it will grow exponentially” from here,
General Manager Hassan Jaboub said in the statement.  Tilal will sell the notes before the end of March and is
awaiting regulatory approvals, AbdulRahman Burham, the company’s
chief executive officer, said today by phone.  Oman issued licenses in 2011 to allow the first two Islamic
banks to start operations, and the sultanate is set to pass
legislation this year to allow non-Islamic banks to offer
Shariah-compliant products. The  Islamic finance  industry’s
assets worldwide will double by 2015 to as much as $3 trillion,
spurred by demand from the GCC and  Malaysia ,  Standard & Poor’s 
said in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Faisal Mantheri in Dubai at 
 fmantheri@bloomberg.net ;
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  