-- Oman Surprises as Woman Arrives to Helm New Theater
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-11-14T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/oman-surprises-as-blonde-arrives-to-helm-new-theater.html
A flurry went around the art world
when conservative Oman named a woman as the chief executive of
the  Persian Gulf ’s only opera house in Muscat.  German-born Christina Scheppelmann is moving from
Washington D.C. She’s planning classical, jazz and world music
concerts at the opera house, which opened last year with
performances by Placido Domingo and  Andrea Bocelli .  “There are enough good stories, enough wonderful poetry,
and enough traditional music, if anyone wants to combine those
elements and tell a story,” she says in an interview in Muscat.  “Theater as a concept is a little foreign, but using your
own stories and your own music, it is easier to comprehend.”  Oman -- the biggest Arab oil exporter that isn’t a member
of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries -- opened
the  Royal Opera House Muscat  in October 2011. Its neighbors are
rushing to follow suit. Iraq laid the foundation stone in May
for a 170 billion dinar ($150 million) cultural complex in
 Baghdad , while Dubai, one of seven sheikhdoms in the  United Arab
Emirates , plans a cultural district. Both include opera houses.
 Abu Dhabi , the U.A.E. capital, and Qatar have also begun hosting
operas as part of music and art festivals.  Scheppelmann, looking fresh after a 16-hour flight from the
U.S., is wrapping up her duties as artistic director at the
 Washington National Opera  and sitting in the lobby of the Grand
Hyatt hotel, sipping a cappuccino and water.  Kennedy Center  It was through WNO’s affiliation with the Kennedy Center --
which helped Oman’s opera house put a season together -- that
she heard about the job. She starts on Dec. 1, and her mandate
is to build up the staff and bring a range of performances.  “It’s an absolutely unique opportunity in the world to
come to an opera house that is brand new, not just as a
building, but as an institution,” says 46-year-old
Scheppelmann, wearing a black suit and pink shirt.  “And the fact that it’s not only opera -- I started off
going to as many operas as symphonic concerts, and a lot to
ballet, and I love jazz. To me it’s the most beautiful opera
house that has been built in the past 50 years. It is unique in
every way and new as a concept. And that’s great fun.”  The new opera chief, a slender, bespectacled blonde who
radiates an engaging mix of friendliness and formality, says she
is determined to learn some Arabic so she can understand better
the local environment. “Language is the access to a mentality,
to a culture,” she says.  Understanding Language  “I speak several languages. I know colleagues in  South
America  very well, I know the people I worked with in Italy, and
I can talk to them in their language. I think language is really
key. It’s a matter of understanding. It’s the people who make
the color of the language -- that’s why dialects exist. Why are
dialects different? Because people are different in various
regions. So the language tells you something about the people.”  The complex of white marble colonnades is designed by
Hawaii-based  WATG . Already productions brought from  Europe ,  Asia 
and the  Middle East  can sell out weeks in advance as Omanis and
expats alike flock to the venue.  After the interview, Scheppelmann picks up the keys to her
rental car from reception and drives us to the opera house,
already comfortable navigating the roads before she has even
moved in. We watch a Sufi production celebrating Muslim
devotional practices. It shows the many interpretations of Islam
in a region where minority beliefs are often repressed.  Sung Poetry  Pakistanis spin to the beat of the dhol drum, played by
deaf and mute Goonga Sain.  Saudi Arabia ’s Hashim Baroom sings
poetry in praise of Prophet Muhammed.  Algeria ’s Nadi al-Hilal
al-Thaqafi expresses devotion through classical Arab-Andalusian
music, while Uzbek classical singer Yulduz Turdieva performs
songs in Uzbek-Turkic and Farsi.  Scheppelmann is beset with staff welcoming her back as she
arrives at the opera house before the show. She takes time to
catch up with each person, patiently listening to updates on
what has happened since she was last in town.  Although she’s the boss, she requests security clearance to
go backstage, respectfully deferring to local protocol. She does
a quick tour, pointing out the German-handcrafted pipe organ
along the back wall. The unusual addition to an opera house was
requested by the ruler Qaboos bin Said al-Said.  Thanks to his love of classical music, the country has its
own Royal Oman Symphony Orchestra.  The challenge is “to create an interest, so that the Omani
audience takes to the symphonic pieces, to the jazz, to the
opera, and develops a taste for it, and that the expats will
actually have the curiosity to come to all these events that
they haven’t heard about,” she says in a faint German accent,
watered down after leaving the country when she was 22.  Audience Curiosity  “It’s up to us, through the press, to give information to
the audience, to excite them, so they can develop a curiosity to
come.”  Scheppelmann will be able to draw from her wide network of
contacts, from  Italy  to South America, to bring performances to
Oman. Artists are also willing to stay in residence for a few
days after a performance and give workshops and teach, she says.  While nobody has explicitly warned her to avoid certain
types of performances, she’s “not going to have productions
that are overly sexual, bare naked people on stage.” Producers
are “quite cooperative” in adapting.  The  Deborah Colker  ballet from  Brazil  will wear less skimpy
outfits when it performs in Oman in February, she says.  “The movement is the same, it will still look the same.”  Looking Ahead  Her contract is for two years, with a two-year automatic
extension.  “When I look at what needs to be done, I think four years
is a good time to really structure something, make it work, and
train Omanis,” she says. “I mean, they don’t want me here in
10 years. Also in the technical areas. With time, you can train
anyone with a technical background to learn about stage
technology, stagecraft, stage systems.”  The language of music is universal, says Scheppelmann,
rejecting the notion that because opera is foreign to the
region, it won’t be appealing. She compares it to going on a
trip abroad, where you use your guidebook, and prepare a little.  “All you have to do in operas is maybe read the synopsis
and say, aha, this piece was written in 1835 and it was a great
success and it’s been done since over and over again, so I guess
it’s a good piece if it survived 180 years,” she says. “Try it
out. Music is very emotional, it’s very communicative. Unless
you’re an emotional monster, if it’s good music, it will work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Muscat at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 