-- Omnicom Chief Scouts for Acquisitions Outside Europe This Year
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-11-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/omnicom-ceo-wren-looks-for-acquisitions-outside-europe-this-year.html
Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC) , the world’s
second-largest advertising company, is seeking acquisitions
beyond  Europe , and expects to buy several companies before the
end of the year.  “We’ve been very wise with our money and we generate a lot
of cash flow and we can borrow a lot if we want to as well,”
Chief Executive Officer John Wren said yesterday in an interview
in Barcelona at a conference organized by Morgan Stanley.  Omnicom, which owns ad agencies including BBDO and TBWA, is
looking at digital companies as well as those specializing in
mobile phone ads as consumers increasingly turn to smartphones
to surf the Internet. Wren said he wants to buy companies in
fast-growing markets and is looking at Asia, South America,
 Africa  and the Middle East, as well as the U.S., where changes
to tax rules may prompt some owners to sell this year.  Omnicom and peers including  WPP Plc (WPP)  and  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) 
are pushing into new areas such as  Brazil  and the Middle East to
counter slowing growth in more mature markets and the economic
slowdown in Europe. Wren said there were “quite a number of
companies” up for sale that could help New York-based Omnicom
expand about 200 brand platforms.  The company last month reported third-quarter  revenue  of
$3.4 billion and earnings per share of 74 cents.  The shares fell 1.4 percent to close at $46.01 in New York,
valuing the company at $12.2 billion.  Omnicon is still cautious in terms of forecasting a turning
point in the advertising market amid the current macroeconomic
and business conditions conditions, according to the executive.  There’s “nothing that marks a change in the headlines that
are out there today,” Wren said. In the future, “I’m
optimistic that we’ll get through it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Barcelona at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  