-- Monster Said to Find No Bidders So Far
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-11-14T21:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/monster-said-to-find-no-bidders-so-far-tpg-apollo-pass.html
Monster Worldwide Inc. (MWW) , the online
jobs site seeking a buyer, may fail to cement a deal after
suitors such as TPG Capital and  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) 
passed, said two people familiar with the matter.  Monster, which sought offers of more than $10 a share and
aimed to reach a deal by the end of October, has no current
bidders for the whole company, said one of the people, who asked
not to be named as the talks aren’t public. Private-equity firms
Bain Capital LLC and Onex Corp. also passed, the people said.  A sale may happen eventually as New York-based Monster
continues to seek buyers for all or part of the company,
according to one person. Monster, which has been reviewing
strategic alternatives for at least eight months, said last week
that it’s still evaluating options. A “substantial number” of
suitors have received management presentations, Timothy Yates,
executive vice president, said on a conference call last week.  “Some of these discussions are ongoing and we cannot
predict the timing or the specifics of the outcome from the
process,” Yates said on the call.  Monster’s shares fell 5 percent to $5.93 at the close in
New York, and earlier sank as much as 10 percent in intraday
trading.  Monster said in March it was working with Stone Key
Partners LLC and Bank of America Corp. on a review. The company,
led by Chief Executive Officer Sal Iannuzzi, has trimmed its
workforce and cut costs as economic turmoil in  Europe  led
clients to pare use of its products and newer companies such as
 LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  provide alternate ways to find staff.  Sale Unlikely  Representatives at Monster, TPG and Apollo declined to
comment. Charlyn Lusk, a spokeswoman for Boston-based Bain at
Stanton Public Relations & Marketing, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail request for comment, nor did Emma Thompson, a
spokeswoman at Toronto-based Onex.  “I didn’t think a sale would be likely especially at the
prices management would accept,” Randle Reece, an analyst at
Avondale Partners LLC, said in an interview.  Cost cuts aren’t enough to turn around the company, Reese
said. Monster needs to find new sources of revenue growth and be
more creative with advertising, rather than waiting for the
economy to revive a stock price that had fallen by 30 percent in
the past year before today, he said. Monster should also
consider acquisitions to expand its online job-search technology
and advertising options.  Last week Monster reported that third-quarter sales sank 11
percent to $221.7 million, falling short of the average estimate
of analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Monster
forecast fourth-quarter earnings from continuing operations of 5
cents to 10 cents a share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  