-- Moody’s to Assess U.K.’s Aaa Rating in 2013 as Economy Slows
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-11-15T12:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/moody-s-to-assess-u-k-s-aaa-rating-in-2013-amid-slowing-economy.html
The U.K.’s top Aaa rating will be
assessed at the beginning of next year as the nation’s economy
slows amid government efforts to reduce deficits and  Europe ’s
debt crisis, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The economic recovery in the U.K. is likely to be slower
than forecast as the private and public sectors reduce their
debt loads, Moody’s said late yesterday in a report. The
government’s Autumn Statement, scheduled to be released in
December, may reveal “the likely speed of fiscal consolidation,
the growth outlook and, most importantly, the assurances offered
that the debt trajectory will stabilize and start to decline
within the rating horizon,” Moody’s said.  The negative outlook “is driven by in part concern that
the government’s efforts to achieve fiscal consolidation and
reduce debt are being hampered by weaker than expected economic
prospects,”  Sarah Carlson , a London-based analyst at Moody’s,
said in a telephone interview. It also considers “the risks
posed by the ongoing euro-area sovereign debt crisis,” she
said.  Britain’s economy is forecast to shrink 0.3 percent this
year and expand 1.1 percent in 2013, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Bank of England 
Governor Mervyn King said yesterday the “road to recovery will
be long and winding.”  Fiscal Squeeze  The rating company also said the political environment will
inform its analysis. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ,
who will present his economic statement to Parliament on Dec. 5,
has affirmed his commitment to his fiscal squeeze. The
opposition  Labour Party  has called for a slower pace of spending
cuts to protect growth. The next general election must be held
by 2015.  “The political appetite for significant additional
expenditure cuts in the parliament is likely to be very
limited,” the report said. “This suggests that, while the
U.K.’s track record of reversing increases in debt is likely to
continue going forward, the timing of these reversals is more
uncertain than it was previously, with consolidation likely to
be delayed due to the political cycle and more challenging
macroeconomic conditions.”  Moody’s issued its negative outlook for U.K. debt on Feb.
13, prompting King to say later that month that the action had
“no impact on the yield that people in the market were willing
to lend to the U.K. government at.”  Ratings History  “I don’t think we should be slaves to the  ratings
agencies ,” King told lawmakers on Feb. 29.  U.K. government bonds were little changed today, with the
yield on the 10-year gilt at 1.75 percent.  Almost half the time, government bond yields fall when a
rating action suggests they should climb, or they increase even
as a change signals a decline, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook changes going
back as far as 38 years. The rates moved in the opposite
direction 47 percent of the time for Moody’s and for  Standard &
Poor’s . The data measured yields after a month relative to U.S.
Treasury debt, the global benchmark.  Moody’s said on Sept. 11 it may join S&P in downgrading the
U.S. to Aa1 from Aaa unless Congress next year reduces the
percentage of debt-to-gross-domestic-product during budget
negotiations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  