-- Fitch Boosts Irish Bailout Exit Prospects Improving Outlook
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-11-15T09:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/moody-s-hornung-lifts-explicit-potential-irish-psi-warning-1-.html
Fitch Ratings raised its outlook on
Ireland’s debt to stable from negative, boosting the
government’s efforts to become the first euro-region nation to
exit a bailout since the debt crisis took hold.  Fitch late yesterday affirmed its BBB+ stance on the
nation, citing a narrowing of the fiscal deficit and a view that
its banks probably won’t need further state capital. London-
based Fitch, which removed Ireland from watch negative in
January, stripped the nation of its AAA rating in April 2009.  “It is encouraging to see further positive noises from the
ratings agencies around Ireland,” Philip O’Sullivan, an
economist at Dublin-based NCB Stockbrokers, said by e-mail.
“Following the public recognition by Moody’s that the risks
around Ireland have abated, the improved outlook on Ireland from
Fitch is an incremental positive.”  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday removed a warning that
Ireland may follow  Greece  in inflicting losses on investors,
after the government made a partial return to credit markets and
lowered its deficit. Ireland stepped out of international bond
markets and sought a 67.5 billion euros ($86 billion) bailout in
2010 as its banking system came close to collapse.  The yield on Ireland’s benchmark security due in October
2020 was unchanged today at 4.73 percent, down from 14 percent
in July 2011.  Bill Sale  Ireland plans to hold its fourth public auction of three-
month treasury bills today. Glas Securities, a Dublin-based
fixed-income firm, said today in a note a sale of longer-term
debt by Ireland may be “imminent.”  The debt agency described Fitch’s move as an encouraging
recognition of the state’s efforts to deal with the crisis
sparked by the implosion of a real-estate bubble in 2008. The
state has pumped about 64 billion euros into its financial
system and now controls five of the six biggest domestic
lenders.  Prime Minister Enda Kenny’s government may be waiting a
while before its credit rating is raised. Ireland’s rating
remains “constrained and faces downside risk” due to high
public and private debt levels, Fitch said.  Ireland’s Finance Ministry lowered its growth forecast for
next year and 2014 amid slowing export expansion and falling
consumer spending. Ireland’s economy is forecast to expand by
1.5 percent next year, compared with an April estimate of 2.2
percent, the ministry said.  Top Grade  In a phone interview, Fitch analyst Gergely Kiss said the
prospects of an Irish upgrade are “very low” in the short
term. Ireland received the top rating from Fitch in 1998, before
losing it three years ago.  Moody’s rates Ireland at sub-investment grade, while
Standard & Poor’s has a negative outlook on it, though has kept
the country at investment grade.  “While not having the sort of game-changing impact that a
similar decision from Moody’s would signify, the decision from
Fitch” is reward for Ireland’s resolve “in taking the hard
decisions,” said Owen Callan, an analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in
Dublin, a primary dealer in Irish government debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  