-- Moore Capital Buys Citigroup, JPMorgan Shares in Quarter
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-11-14T20:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/moore-capital-buys-citigroup-jpmorgan-shares-in-quarter.html
Moore Capital Management LP, the
hedge fund run by billionaire Louis Moore Bacon, boosted its
stakes in financial firms after buying shares of  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. in the third quarter.  The $13.5 billion hedge fund bought 5.3 million shares of
Citigroup, making the New York bank its biggest U.S. publicly-
listed holding, according to a filing today with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Moore bought 3.8 million
shares of JPMorgan in the period ending Sept. 30, after
divesting its entire stake in the prior quarter following the
bank’s multibillion-dollar trading loss.  Moore joins Lansdowne Partners LP in adding to shares of
financial companies during the third quarter. Lansdowne, the
biggest European hedge fund focused on stock picking, added a
new position in Morgan Stanley and boosted its stake in
JPMorgan, according to a regulatory filing today.  Patrick Clifford , a spokesman for New York-based Moore,
declined to comment on the filing.  Moore bought 3.4 million shares of  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) , 3.1 million shares in  US Bancorp (USB)  and 1.97 million
shares of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , according to the filing. The hedge
fund also added 5.2 million shares of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  in
the third quarter.  Moore cut as many as 15 investment jobs in September as
part of a restructuring, people with knowledge of the matter
said at the time. Bacon told clients in August that he planned
to return $2 billion, or about 25 percent of his main fund, to
investors, saying it may be too big for him to generate returns
in line with historic profits as “liquidity and opportunities
have become more constrained.”  Moore last quarter added to an exchange-traded fund that
tracks  emerging markets  by buying 2.7 million shares of the
iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index fund, according to the
filing. The ETF is the hedge fund’s third-largest holding after
JPMorgan. Moore also added 1.8 million shares in Sprott Physical
Gold Trust in the quarter.  Moore sold the Utilities Select Sector SPDR Fund, an EFT
that tracks electrical power providers and natural gas
distributors, according to the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  