-- Orascom Telecom Posts Quarterly Profit on Forex Gains
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2012-11-14T08:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/orascom-telecom-posts-quarterly-profit-on-forex-gains.html
Orascom Telecom Holding SAE, (ORTE)  which
merged with  Russia ’s  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  last year, swung to
quarterly profit on foreign exchange gains and as financing
costs declined, beating analysts’ estimates.  Net income was $106 million in the quarter ended Sept. 30
after a loss of $1.5 million a year earlier, Cairo-based company
said  in a statement  posted on its website. That compares with
the median estimate of three analysts for a profit of $93
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Our operations witnessed solid performance in local
currency terms,” Chief Executive Officer Ahmed Abou Doma said
in the statement. “Nevertheless, the fluctuation of local
currencies against the dollar continued to adversely affect our
international financial reporting standards consolidated
results.”  Orascom Telecom this week obtained shareholder approval to
gain control of  Canada ’s Globalive Investment Holding Corp. and
change its name to Global Telecom Holding. The company has been
in an ownership dispute with the Algerian government for more
than two years on its 51 percent owned unit Djezzy, and a report
said yesterday a new company has been formed to support the
negotiations.  The company posted foreign exchange gains of $71.7 million
in the quarter after loss of $110.3 million a year earlier,
while net financing costs dropped to $26.5 million from $179.6
million, according to the company statement. Revenue declined 4
percent to $884.7 million.  The shares  have surged 116 percent this year compared with
a gain of 57 percent for the  benchmark EGX 30 index.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  