-- Tories Appeal for Marriage Tax Break in Clash With Cameron Plans
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-11-14T09:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/tories-appeal-for-marriage-tax-break-in-clash-with-cameron-plans.html
U.K. Conservative lawmakers appealed
to Prime Minister  David Cameron  to cut taxes for married
couples, underscoring a clash within the party on cultural
social issues.  Fifteen Tories including former ministers wrote a letter to
the Daily Telegraph newspaper today calling on the premier to
deliver on a pre-election pledge for a transferable tax
allowance for married couples. The lawmakers want the change to
be made in next year’s spring budget.  “Recent research in America has shown that college
graduates who become single parents are likely to be less well
off financially than those who only complete secondary
education, but go on to marry,” the letter says. “We believe
that these proposals are a vital weapon in combating child
poverty.”  The lawmakers’ intervention highlights tensions within the
ruling party over the direction it should take before 2015
elections and how it should interact with its coalition
partners, the Liberal Democrats.  Yesterday, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , the
party’s key strategist and Cameron’s closest ally, said he would
be putting gay marriage at the heart of the party’s plans. In an
article in The Times, Osborne cited President Obama’s re-
election, saying the Tories should be in step with voters and
“how they want to live their lives.”  “It was Mr. Obama’s 11 percent lead among women that won
it for the president, even though many of those that voted
Democrat thought Mr. Romney would manage the economy better,”
Osborne wrote. “President Obama’s high-profile endorsement of
equal marriage for gay couples also enthused younger voters. But
polls found that a majority of all Americans supported him on
the issue and voted for it in all four states that held
ballots.”  -- Editors: James Hertling, Leon Mangasarian  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  