-- Mosaic Falls as It Says More Potash Cuts May Come: Chicago Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-11-14T21:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/mosaic-falls-as-it-says-more-potash-cuts-may-come-chicago-mover.html
Mosaic Co. (MOS) , the largest U.S.
fertilizer producer, fell the most in more than a month after
saying it may further reduce potash output following delays to
customer purchases of the crop nutrient.  Mosaic dropped 3.3 percent to $49.10 at the close in  New
York .  “We will continue to match production with demand, which
may require us to further lower our operating rates,” Chief
Financial Officer Larry Stranghoener said today at an investor
presentation in New York. The Plymouth, Minnesota-based company
yesterday cut its fiscal second-quarter forecast for potash and
phosphate shipments, citing delayed purchases by foreign buyers.  Mosaic expects to ship 1.3 million to 1.4 million metric
tons of potash in the quarter ending Nov. 30, down from an Oct.
2 forecast of 1.6 million to 1.9 million tons. Delays in signing
supply contracts in China and  India  have spurred other buyers to
postpone purchases because they expect prices for crop nutrients
to decline, Mosaic said yesterday.  Chief Executive Officer Jim Prokopanko said Oct. 2 that the
company slowed potash production in response to weaker demand.
Potash, which Mosaic mines in the Canadian province of
Saskatchewan, is applied to crops by farmers to strengthen plant
roots and improve drought resistance.  “As long as China and India are out of the market there
are going to be more shutdowns,”  Edlain Rodriguez , a New York-
based analyst at Lazard Capital Markets LLC, said today in a
telephone interview. “Mosaic and the other big potash producers
can’t afford to have the market oversupplied.”  Mosaic yesterday also reduced its projection for phosphate
shipments to 2.9 million to 3.1 million tons, from 3 million to
3.4 million previously.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  