-- OTP’s Bencsik Sees Improving Bad Loan Trends, Lending Pick-Up
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-11-14T23:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/otp-s-bencsik-sees-improving-bad-loan-trends-lending-pick-up.html
Laszlo Bencsik, chief financial
officer at  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest lender, comments on
lending outlook and bad loan trends, the expected performance of
foreign subsidiaries and dividend payment plans.      He spoke
in an interview in Budapest yesterday.  On the outlook for lending:  “Loan growth is negative in Hungary on a market level,
similarly to last year, and it’s likely this trend will continue
next year. We don’t see any major structural changes which would
turn the trend around. The market itself is shrinking while
OTP’s market share from the new loan flow is increasing; but
even so, we’re struggling to maintain portfolio volumes.  ‘‘Demand constraints are clearly the primary reason behind
weak lending. We see household consumption declining 1 percent
this year and 0.5 percent in 2013. In the corporate segment, the
biggest problem is investments as the capital expenditure to the
gross domestic product ratio is extremely low in  Hungary .  ‘‘Considering OTP Bank loan volumes, adjusted for the
impact of the early repayment of foreign-currency mortgages and
supposing we do well in the last quarter of the year, they may
be level with last year. We see subdued loan growth potential
for OTP  in Hungary in 2013 and it’s hard to foresee fundamental
improvement in the environment. A realistic scenario is flat
loan growth, the optimistic scenario is low single-digit growth,
excluding all possible one-offs. For instance, municipality
loans will for sure create some noise in the numbers. Assuming
no one-offs, I think a flat loan volume could be an acceptable
performance and a low single-digit growth would be a good and
desired level of performance.  ‘‘In all the nine countries in which we operate, I expect a
marginally better economic, overall economic performance next
year than this year. This ranges from zero growth next year to 3
percent to 4 percent in some countries. In our highest growth
markets, like  Russia , it can be up to or above 20 percent.’’  On foreign units:  ‘‘In Russia, we continue to expect further strong growth in
consumer lending, obviously the percentage-wise growth rate may
be smaller in the coming years just because the base is bigger
and bigger in nominal terms. I expect competition will intensify
and there will be margin pressures, and to counterbalance that
you have to be better in operations and in risk management.  ‘‘Ukraine is certainly a challenging environment, but we
rather see Ukraine as an opportunity. Higher risk means higher
potential gain. We are in the process of shifting the focus of
the bank from mortgage lending to  consumer lending . We basically
implemented our Russian business model in Ukraine and if we do
well it might be a similar success story as Russia.  ‘‘A revaluation of the hryvnia is expected, and if you ask
me, the hryvnia is overvalued. Devaluation should happen, and
the earlier it happens, the better, because all market
participants are awaiting it. Obviously this would have an
impact on the expected returns, especially in the non-performing
mortgage portfolio. That’s one of the reasons why we built up
substantial provisions in Ukraine. We have around 80% provisions
to non-performing loans ratio -- not counting for any collateral
value -- and virtually the entire NPL portfolio is secured.  ‘‘If devaluation is in the 10 percent to 15 percent range,
we don’t expect strong differences in the currently performing
part of the portfolio. Fundamentally, our provisions for FX
mortgages was very conservative and it’s going to be a decision
how much -if at all -- we want to additionally provision.’’  On bad loans:  ‘‘In terms of NPL formations, we are going to see slowly
declining numbers on group level and even in Hungary. We have
marginally improving economic environments in the countries
where we operate therefore I believe we rightly expect to see
marginal improvement in portfolio deterioration and lower risk
costs.  ‘‘The NPL ratio rose 20 bps to 19 percent at the end of
third quarter on group level, which is the lowest rate of
increase in the past 3 years.’’  On Hungarian municipality loans:  ‘‘OTP’s municipal loans stood at 286 billion forint at the
end of the third quarter and the provisioning is quite small
given the good performance of the portfolio.  ‘‘These are loan contracts, contractual obligations taken
by the municipalities to pay back these debts. I expect serious
discussions between banks, municipalities and the government,
but that’s shareholders’, bondholders’ and depositors’ money
that we’ve lent to municipalities, so the bank management is not
in a position to just forgive loans or give material discounts
that would probably amount to breach of our managerial duties.  ‘‘Having said that, I expect intense negotiations with the
municipalities and the government and I believe we’ll be able to
find a solution which works for all parties. In my view the
really challenging part of the portfolio is the foreign-currency
denominated one, therefore I expect the most intense discussion
around this part of the portfolio.’’  On dividend payment:  ‘‘We intend to propose a higher level of dividend than what
we paid last year. ’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  