-- Toyota Recalls 2.77 Million Vehicles on Steering, Pump Flaws
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-11-14T16:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/toyota-to-recall-2-77-million-vehicles-on-steering-pump-flaws.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Asia ’s largest
automaker, said it will recall 2.77 million vehicles worldwide
after detecting faults in the steering and water-pump systems of
some of its gasoline and hybrid vehicles.  The Prius hybrid and Corolla compact sedans are among the
14 models subject to inspection and repair, Naoto Fuse, a
spokesman for the Toyota City, Japan-based company, said by
phone today. The carmaker will recall 1.52 million vehicles in
 Japan  and 1.25 million vehicles overseas, including 670,000
Prius vehicles in the U.S., Toyota said in separate statements
on its websites today.  The recall is the second in as many months for Toyota and
comes as President Akio Toyoda pushes to rebuild the company’s
reputation for quality after calling back more than 10 million
vehicles in 2009 and 2010 for defects associated with unintended
acceleration. Last month, Toyota announced it will recall 7.43
million vehicles for a possible flaw that could lead the power-
window switch to melt or catch fire. According to documents
filed with U.S. regulators, it first learned of that defect in
2008.  “The number of vehicles being recalled is smaller than
those from last month,” Satoshi Yuzaki, Tokyo-based general
manager at Takagi Securities Co. said by phone today. “Unless
the defects turn out to be very complicated, the cost for the
recalls shouldn’t affect their earnings too much.”  No Crashes  Toyota said it hasn’t received any reports of crashes and
injuries resulting from the faults. Fuse, the company spokesman,
declined to comment on the projected cost for the recall.  The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration,
which fined Toyota $16.4 million in 2010 for delaying recalls
related to unintended acceleration, is in contact with the
company about the latest recall, Lynda Tran, an agency
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “While NHTSA is unaware of any deaths or injuries related
to the concern identified as part of the recall, the agency will
continue to monitor the issue and will take action as
warranted,” she said.  In today’s recall, a possible defect in the steering system
may cause “knocking or rattling and possibly a reduction in
steering response.” The flaw in the hybrid system involves the
electric water in the water pump, which may stop functioning,
the company said.  Repairs should take an hour to complete for the steering
shaft and no more than 90 minutes to replace the pump, the
automaker said.  Toyota  fell  0.8 percent to 3,060 yen as of the close of
trading in  Tokyo  today. The benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
was little changed.  Toyota’s American depositary receipts, each equal to two
ordinary shares, fell 1 percent to $77.06 at 11:40 a.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  