-- Toyota Sends Venzas to South Korea, Boosting U.S. Exports
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-11-15T00:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/toyota-sends-venzas-to-south-korea-boosting-u-s-exports.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  is making good on
a plan to boost U.S. exports by shipping Kentucky-built Venzas
to South Korea, helping Asia’s largest carmaker maximize use of
factories in North America and blunt the yen’s impact.  The company’s plant in Georgetown, Kentucky, is producing a
version of the midsize wagon for South Korea, where it already
sends U.S.-produced Camry sedans and Sienna minivans, Toyota
said yesterday in a  statement . Toyota expects exports of U.S.-
built vehicles to reach a record, increasing 52 percent this
year to more than 130,000 cars and trucks, the company said.  The Venza exports help “maintain Toyota’s strong, stable
base of U.S. jobs,”  Bob Carter , U.S. senior vice president,
said in the statement. “We look forward to other opportunities
to continue expanding exports from our American operations.”
The Kentucky manufacturing operation is Toyota’s largest outside
of Japan and employs about 6,600 people.  Toyota, along with Japan-based  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Nissan
Motor Co. (7201) , has been shifting more production to North America to
counter the yen’s almost 30 percent rise against the dollar in
the past five years, including opening a Corolla small-car plant
in Mississippi, moving Highlander sport-utility vehicle
production to Indiana and expanding Lexus RX SUV output in
Canada. Last week, Toyota said it would make small cars with
 Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  in 2015 at a plant Mazda is building in
 Mexico .  Yoshimi Inaba, chairman of Toyota’s U.S. sales unit, in
January said the company intended to make  North America  a global
export base.  Recall, Rebound  The initial goal is to send about 600 Venzas annually to
South Korea, Toyota said. The company said it currently sends
U.S.-made models, including Tacoma and Tundra pickups and
Highlander and Sequoia SUVs, to 21 countries.  Separately, Carter declined during the webcast of a
Barclays Plc conference yesterday in New York to discuss the
potential cost to the company of recalling 2.77 million cars
worldwide.  The company, based in Toyota City, Japan, said today it
will inspect and fix 14 models including second-generation Prius
hybrids and Corolla small cars for steering and water-pump
system flaws.  In the U.S., combined deliveries of Toyota, Lexus and Scion
models gained 30 percent this year through October from a year
earlier after 2011 natural disasters in  Asia  that cut
production.  Market Share  The company expects continued growth through 2014, Carter
said in New York. By that time, the Toyota brand alone should
reach about 2 million U.S. sales, with market share of more than
13 percent, he said.  “In a nutshell, Toyota is getting back to the top of its
game,” Carter said.  The Toyota brand held 12.8 percent of the U.S. market this
year through October, up from 11.1 percent a year earlier,
according to researcher Autodata Corp. The company’s total U.S.
market share was 14.4 percent for the first 10 months, up from
12.6 percent.  Toyota’s U.S. sales unit is in Torrance,  California . The
company’s shares rose 2.1 percent to 3,125 yen at 9:35 a.m. in
Tokyo trading, extending this year’s gain to 22 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  