-- Panasonic Plans 8,000 Job Cuts Amid Second Straight Loss
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-11-14T21:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/panasonic-plans-8-000-job-cuts-amid-second-consecutive-loss-1-.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752)  plans to cut 8,000
jobs in the second half of this fiscal year as the Japanese TV
maker restructures amid falling demand and a rising yen.  The company, which eliminated 8,871 jobs in the six months
ended Sept. 30, is planning further cuts by March 31 to speed up
the reforms, Atsushi Hinoki, a Tokyo-based spokesman, said by
phone. The expense for the job cuts is already included in the
company’s forecast for an annual loss of 765 billion yen ($9.6
billion), he said.  Panasonic  shares  this month plunged to the lowest in at
least 38 years and Moody’s Investors Service said it will review
its debt for a potential downgrade after  Japan ’s third-biggest
employer  predicted  a loss this fiscal year. The Osaka-based
company eliminated almost 39,000 jobs in the past year, or about
11 percent of its staff, as Japanese electronics makers struggle
amid competition with  Samsung (005930)  Electronics Co.  “They have no choice but to cut more jobs, given the
enormous loss,” said Yoshihiro Okumura, a general manager at
Chiba-Gin Asset Management Co. “Further job cuts were expected.
What is more important going forward is to realign its
businesses and show investors a clear picture for revival.”  Reuters reported the job cuts earlier.  Panasonic’s American depositary receipts fell 4.3 percent
to $4.63 at the close in in New York.  Apple, Samsung  The  loss forecast , projected last month, was 30 times
bigger than analysts estimated and prompted the Osaka-based
company to skip a  dividend  for the first time since 1950 because
of an “urgent need” to improve its financial position. It
would be the company’s second straight loss.  “It’s positive that the company is promoting reform at a
faster pace than the market expected,” said Kazuharu Miura, an
analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo.  Panasonic and smaller Sharp Corp. are among Japanese
consumer-electronics makers failing to come up with hit products
to challenge Samsung and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Sony Corp. (6758)  and Panasonic are
valued at near three-decade lows as investors remain unconvinced
that Japan’s TV makers can rebound from slumping demand, falling
prices and mounting losses.  The bulk of Panasonic’s projected loss for the year ending
in March will come from 440 billion yen of restructuring
expenses, more than 10 times greater than what the company
projected earlier. That includes a writedown of goodwill on
businesses such as solar, lithium-ion batteries and mobile
phones, the company said.  “The situation is worse than we had expected earlier, and
we have a severe outlook for the second half,” Chief Financial
Officer Hideaki Kawai said at an Oct. 31 briefing. Panasonic has
no plan to cut jobs in significant numbers, he said then.  Credit Ratings  With 321,896 workers on its payroll as of Sept. 30,
Panasonic trails  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s 328,762 workers as of June
30 and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) ’s 327,325 as of Sept. 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  On Nov. 1, Moody’s placed Panasonic’s Baa1-rated long-term
senior unsecured bond and issuer ratings, as well as its shelf
registration, on review for downgrade. Japan Rating and
Investment Information Inc. said it placed Panasonic on
monitoring and may downgrade its current A+ rating by more than
one level.  The maker of Viera TVs and Lumix cameras promoted Kazuhiro Tsuga to president in June after the 56-year-old executive led a
restructuring of the unprofitable TV business.  Losses from TVs at Panasonic totaled 349 billion yen in the
past four fiscal years, according to an estimate by Yuji Fujimori, an analyst at Barclays Plc in  Tokyo . Sony’s TV
business is forecast to lose money for a ninth straight year.  TV Demand  Global TV demand is expected to remain little changed in
2013 after shipments of all TV types declined more than 4
percent this year, researcher DisplaySearch  said  last month.
Japan’s deliveries plunged 77 percent in the second quarter,
according to the researcher.  Anti-Japan sentiment in China may lead to a 100 billion-yen
decline in sales and a 30 billion-yen decline in operating
profit for the current fiscal year, Kawai said last month.  Protests disrupted operations in September at Panasonic’s
three factories in China, where the company generated about 14
percent of its sales in the first quarter.  A dispute over islands in the East  China  Sea claimed by
both countries sparked the anti-Japan protests, halting local
output by Japanese manufacturers and reducing demand for their
products in the world’s second-largest economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  