-- Paschi Has Unexpected Third-Quarter Loss on Bad Loans
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-11-14T11:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/paschi-has-unexpected-third-quarter-loss-on-bad-loans.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA ,
 Italy ’s third-biggest bank, unexpectedly reported a third-
quarter loss as provisions for bad loans almost doubled.  The bank had a net loss of 47.4 million euros ($60 million)
compared with a profit of 42.2 million euros a year earlier, the
Siena, Italy-based company said in a statement today. The
 average estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for
net income of 103.4 million euros.  Monte Paschi, the world’s oldest bank, is the only Italian
lender still missing minimum  capital requirements  set by the
European Banking Authority. Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola is seeking 3.4 billion euros from the Italian government
in return for bonds to help bolster its balance sheet. He’s also
selling assets, reducing risks and cutting costs as part of a
three-year plan to restore liquidity.  “Monte Paschi posted another very bad quarter on the back
of further balance sheet clean-up,” Luigi Tramontana, a Milan-
based analyst at Banca Akros, wrote in an e-mailed note. He
rates the bank hold with a price estimate of 26 euro cents.  The bank’s  shares fell  as much as 4.9 percent, and were
down 4.5 percent at 20.24 cents at 11:13 a.m. in Milan, giving
the company a market value of 2.4 billion euros.  Higher Provisions  Paschi’s loan-loss provisions increased to 461 million
euros in the quarter from 269 million euros a year ago. The
lender’s  Tier 1 capital ratio , a key measure of financial
health, decreased to 11.4 percent on Sept. 30 from 11.7 percent
at the end of June.  “This is the most difficult quarter of 2012, both from an
economic and financial system standpoint,” Viola said during a
conference call today. “That translated into higher credit
costs and a deterioration in asset quality.”  Revenue rose an annual 5 percent to 1.38 billion euros in
the third quarter as the bank made a profit of 233 million euros
from trading compared with a loss of 4 million euros a year ago.
The earnings included 190 million euros from a 1.25 billion-euro
bond swap announced on July 6, the bank said.  Monte Paschi held 22 billion euros of Italian sovereign
bonds at the end of the third quarter, cutting the amount by 3
billion euros from the previous three months,  Financial Aid  The lender is one of the 10 biggest users of the  European
Central Bank ’s 1 trillion-euro Longer-Term Refinancing
Operation, which can be repaid starting in January. It owes 29
billion euros.  Viola said the bank’s liquidity position is improving,
shown by a 2.2 percent quarterly increase in funding including
deposits compared with the previous three months.  Monte Paschi, which has sold bonds to the government in
return for financial aid, expects to sell 3.4 billion euros of
the debt by the year-end “even if talks between European
authorities and Italy are still ongoing to get the approval,”
Chief Financial Officer Bernardo Mingrone said during the
conference call.  While the Italian Parliament approved a bill allowing the
state aid in August, the terms of the new bonds haven’t been
defined yet because the rules are under review by European
antitrust authorities.  Book Value  Analysts are concerned that EU regulators may rule that the
measure is unfair because it would allow Monte Paschi to give
shares to the Italian Treasury at their book value, instead of
interest on the debt, should the bank report an annual loss.  “The EU commission’s position is known -- it aims to have
shares given to the Italian state in case of loss at market
value,” Mingrone said. “This is part of the negotiations
between the government and the authority.”  Monte Paschi’s aid request is the second in three years. It
obtained 1.9 billion euros in 2009 through the issue of so-
called Tremonti bonds. That debt would be converted into the new
securities and form part of the amount requested.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  