-- TPC Rising Takeover Bids Make Rubber Best Bet in U.S.
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-11-14T21:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/tpc-rising-takeover-bids-make-rubber-best-bet-in-u-s-real-m-a.html
Synthetic rubber is proving to be
the best bet in America for traders who profit from
acquisitions.  TPC Group Inc. (TPCG) , the biggest producer of the chemical
butadiene that’s used to make synthetic rubber, already secured
an almost 13 percent increase to $45 a share from First Reserve
Corp. and SK Capital Partners last week to fend off a rival bid.
TPC shares are trading 2.9 percent higher than the latest offer,
again signaling merger arbitrageurs expect a heightened bidding
war and the biggest price hike of any U.S. deal valued at $100
million or more, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sandell Asset Management Corp., TPC’s third-largest
 shareholder , said the company should hold an auction to allow
the previous counter bidder  Innospec Inc. (IOSP)  to weigh a new offer.
While the current private-equity deal is fully financed and
approved by regulators, Sandell may spur investors to rebuff the
agreement and seek a higher price, according to MKM Partners
LLC. Tullett Prebon Plc said fuel-additives maker Innospec,
which is working with  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , would need to offer
at least $47.50 a share to acquire the company that Oppenheimer
& Co. predicts will benefit as  butadiene  prices rise.  “The story is definitely not over,” Steve Gerbel, founder
and president of Chicago Capital Management, a Chicago-based
hedge fund that focuses on merger arbitrage, said in a telephone
interview. “People are highly confident that there’s going to
be some more. It’s going to be higher than $45, absolutely.”  Gerbel said he doesn’t own any TPC shares.  Rubber Ingredient  James Golden, a spokesman for TPC, declined to comment on
whether the company would be open to negotiating with Innospec
and Blackstone. Kelly Holman, a spokesman for SK Capital at
BackBay Communications, declined to comment, as did Lisa Cradit
of First Reserve.  TPC, with a market value of $726 million, makes butadiene
and other chemical products for use in everything from tires to
carpets and footwear. The company competes in the market for
butadiene with LyondellBasell Industries NV, Royal Dutch Shell
Plc and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   In August, TPC said First Reserve and SK Capital agreed to
buy the company for $40 a share, about 20 percent higher than
TPC’s closing level on July 24, before the stock soared on
takeover speculation. That trailed the average premium of 33
percent for chemical takeovers larger than $100 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  TPC  shares  traded above $40 every day after the Aug. 27 bid
was disclosed as merger-arbitrage specialists wagered that the
company would secure a higher takeover price.  Rival Proposal  On Oct. 8, Innospec and Blackstone made a non-binding offer
of $44 to $46 a share for TPC, without fully specifying how it
planned to finance the deal.  First Reserve and SK Capital countered by increasing their
bid to $45, a 34 percent premium to the unaffected share price,
and TPC accepted it on Nov. 8 and ended talks with Innospec. TPC
shareholders are set to vote on the latest offer, which has
already gained regulatory approval, on Dec. 5, the company said.  Patrick Williams, chief executive officer of Littleton,
Colorado-based Innospec, said in a Nov. 8 statement that
comments made by First Reserve and SK Capital about the lack of
strategic fit between his company and TPC were “either false or
misleading.” Brian Watt, a spokesman for Innospec, declined to
comment further.  Christine Anderson , a spokeswoman for New York-based
Blackstone, also declined to comment when asked whether the
private-equity firm and Innospec are considering a higher bid.  Shareholder Objection  Thomas E. Sandell, CEO of New York-based Sandell Asset
Management, which holds a 7 percent stake in TPC according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, wrote to the company’s board on Nov.
9, saying it shouldn’t have broken off talks with Innospec and
should hold an auction to allow the suitor to offer a higher
price.  Shares of TPC have traded above the increased bid of $45 a
share every day since it was disclosed. The stock ended
yesterday at $46.31, 2.9 percent higher than the new buyout
price, the widest gap for a pending U.S. deal valued at $100
million or more, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Today, TPC shares fell 0.7 percent to $45.97.  “If First Reserve is willing to pay $45, the thinking
behind this trading higher is that Innospec obviously can pay
more because they have real synergies” and cost-cutting
opportunities as a strategic buyer, Yemi Oshodi, New York-based
managing director of mergers and acquisitions and special
situations at WallachBeth Capital LLC, said in a phone
interview. “Arbitrageurs will play that call.”  Innospec Opportunity  TPC offers Innospec the chance to trim expenses by
integrating the butadiene maker’s raw-material production into
its operations, according to  Chris Shaw , a New York-based
analyst at research firm Monness, Crespi, Hardt & Co.  Innospec would be acquiring a company that is poised to
increase  revenue  to $4.1 billion by 2015 from a projected $2.3
billion this year, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  TPC is attractive based on its “strong growth prospects
and dominant position in butadiene,” which is in short supply,
Oppenheimer analyst Edward Yang wrote in a Nov. 2 note to
clients. Innospec’s Williams said on a Nov. 1 earnings call that
the due diligence the company had conducted on TPC reinforced
the value of the business.  TPC’s growth potential means a takeover bid of $50 a share
“seems very reasonable,” said Eric Mintz, a  St. Petersburg ,
Florida-based  fund manager  who helps oversee more than $8
billion, including TPC shares, at Eagle Asset Management Inc.  ‘Attractive’ Business  “The butadiene business that they have is very
attractive,” Mintz said in a phone interview. TPC management is
“selling the company far too cheaply.”  TPC said in a filing yesterday that it decided to accept
the offer from First Reserve and SK Capital because of the high
probability of closing before the end of the year, whereas
Innospec’s offer wasn’t definitive and a deal would take longer
to close.  As a result, Innospec and Blackstone may have to offer at
least $47.50 a share, a 42 percent premium to the unaffected
share price, to convince management to reopen negotiations, said
 Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based special situations
and merger arbitrage strategist at Tullett Prebon.  TPC trades at a 70 percent discount to its revenue, making
the company a bargain for Innospec, Shah said. TPC had sales of
$2.4 billion in the last 12 months, more than three times
Innospec’s $763 million.  Valuation Play  “The bottom line is the valuation,” Shah said in a phone
interview. If Innospec can “acquire a much larger, significant
peer and asset, that’s a recipe for success” and “it will come
down to their gut to come back with a counter offer.”  With an almost 13 percent price increase and regulatory
approval already in hand for the deal with First Reserve and SK
Capital, TPC may not be inclined to seek a higher bid from
Innospec and Blackstone, said Peter Lobravico, New York-based
vice president of merger arbitrage trading and sales at Wall
Street Access Corp.  “What you have here is a bird in the hand,” Lobravico
said in a phone interview. “They returned to the existing buyer
that they have an agreement in place with already. They got a
bump” and “the shareholders made out pretty well.”  Still, many shareholders may share Sandell’s frustration
with the $45-a-share bid and TPC  management ’s decision to end
talks with Innospec and Blackstone, said  Keith Moore , an event-
driven strategist at MKM in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Bid Opportunity  As a shareholder, “you should be happy that it is raised
from $40, but you can’t be happy that this is a process that the
board of directors is attempting to cut off before it becomes a
full auction,” Moore said. “If they exercise collectively
their right to vote, then they can potentially force the board
to do something different.”  Eagle Asset won’t be voting in favor of the $45-a-share
offer from First Reserve and SK Capital, Mintz said.  “There is definitely an opportunity for Innospec to come
in with a higher bid,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  