-- Pelosi Said to Decide to Remain House Democratic Leader
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-11-14T14:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/pelosi-said-to-decide-to-remain-house-democratic-leader.html
Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, the
first female speaker when Democrats controlled the U.S. House of
Representatives from 2007 to 2011, told caucus members she will
stay for another two-year term as their leader, an aide said.  Pelosi, who was deposed as speaker after the 2010 election
delivered House control to Republicans, had refused to reveal
her plans until she met today with fellow House Democrats. She
scheduled a 10 a.m. news conference to make her announcement.  Her decision to stay as minority leader follows the second
consecutive election in which Democrats won a minority of seats
in the 435-seat House.  Pelosi, 72, was first elected minority leader after the
2002 election, serving in that position from 2003 until 2007.
She then became speaker after her party won control of both the
House and Senate in the 2006 election.  As speaker she shepherded President  Barack Obama ’s health-
care law through the House toward enactment by Congress in 2010.
She also pushed through the House a measure to curb pollution
that causes climate change, legislation that died in the Senate.  Pelosi had plenty of political incentives to stay because
“she was heavily invested in the president’s re-election,”
said Oregon Democrat Earl Blumenaur. “She could have a lot of
influence” in a House with as many as eight more Democratic
seats.  Pelosi signaled her intentions yesterday by introducing the
49 new Democratic members elected last week.  “House Democrats are ready to work with the president, our
Senate colleagues and across the aisle for certainty for our
economy and our middle class,” she said yesterday at a news
conference. “With our newly elected members and the entire
Democratic caucus, we’re going to work together to reignite the
American dream.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  