-- Penn State Must Open Records, Change Board, Watchdog Says
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-11-14T18:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/penn-state-must-open-records-change-board-watchdog-says.html
Pennsylvania State University  should
open its records and overhaul its governance to address a
“culture of silence” that remains even after a molestation
scandal, said Jack Wagner,  Pennsylvania ’s auditor general.  The university “led the charge” for an exemption from
open-records law for it and three other universities receiving
tax dollars, Wagner said today in Harrisburg.  “It’s time for the sun to shine in,” he said. “This is a
public university that needs to be transparent and more
accountable.”  Jerry Sandusky, a former Penn State assistant football
coach, was sentenced to 30 to 60 years in prison Oct. 10 for
sexually abusing children over a 15-year period. Prosecutors
said he was a serial child molester who used a charity he
established called Second Mile to recruit victims, then plied
them with money and trips to the school’s football games.  While one can’t say Sandusky’s actions could have been
“fully prevented,” they “might have been uncovered sooner”
if the university had to release records, Wagner said. If
officials knew the public could see e-mails and correspondence
related to Sandusky, “who knows what that might have
prevented?”  On Nov. 7, former university President  Graham Spanier  was
arraigned on charges of conspiring to conceal reports of
Sandusky’s abuse. Moody’s Investors Service last month cut Penn
State’s credit rating one level to Aa2, the third-highest
rating, because of the financial impact of the scandal and said
it “could take time” for Penn State to improve its management
and culture.  Chopping Board  Wagner, whose term as the state’s elected watchdog ends
this year, called on the legislature to remove the university
president from the board of trustees, making the governor a
nonvoting member as opposed to being a voting participant, and
reducing the size of the board. He described Penn State’s
governance as atypical among Big Ten universities and among the
20 largest universities by enrollment.  “ Penn State  welcomes input from Auditor General Wagner,”
Lisa Powers, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “The university
only just received the report today but will conduct a thorough
review.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  