-- Pentagon Weapons Buyer Want to Limit Fixed-Price Jobs
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-11-14T18:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/pentagon-weapons-buyer-want-to-limit-fixed-price-jobs.html
The Pentagon plans to limit its use
of fixed-price development contracts because they require
contractors to bear too much financial risk in that phase of a
weapons program, the defense acquisitions chief said.  Officials led by Undersecretary of Defense for Acquisition
Frank Kendall said in a draft proposal that they want to revise
2010 guidelines that backed wide use of fixed-price incentive
contracts. These contracts require companies to bear increasing
shares of an overrun until they are paying 100 percent. They
make money if a contract comes in at less than the fixed target
cost.  The draft, called “Better Buying Power 2.0,” is intended
to take effect in January. The approach may be criticized in
Congress, which has expressed a preference for awarding more
fixed-price contracts as a way to pressure companies to curb
cost overruns.  “We are refining our guidance to emphasize the use of the
appropriate contract vehicle for the product or services
required,” Kendall said in a memo yesterday to the Pentagon
workforce. Weapons-buying regulations provide for a “range of
contract types for a reason: one size does not fit all,” he
said.  Fixed-price incentive contracts are appropriate for
production jobs such as the  Boeing Co. (BA)  KC-46 tanker or  Lockheed
Martin Corp.’s (LMT)  F-35 fighter, Kendall said in a press briefing
yesterday.  “The place where I’m nervous about fixed price is in
development” of a weapons system, with all its uncertainties,
he said at the briefing.  Far Afield  The new approach was questioned by Scott Amey, general
counsel for the  Project on Government Oversight , a nonprofit
watchdog group based in Washington.  “This change will shift the risk, and costs, from the
contractors to the Pentagon, which is another attempt by the
contractors to protect the bottom line,” Amey said today in an
e-mail.  Moving to fewer fixed-price incentive contracts will
require greater vigilance by the Pentagon “to make sure that
projects don’t veer too far afield with a large bill being
passed along to taxpayers,” he said.  Kendall said that entering into a fixed-price contract
locks the Pentagon and a contractor into a situation where
“it’s hard to make an adjustment,” he said.  Filing Claims  If costs increase during development, a contractor is
“supposed to keep putting money in until they can deliver that
product,” Kendall said. Companies can take an adversarial
stance and file claims against the Pentagon “or just stop”
work, he said.  A cost-plus contract that reimburses a company for its
documented expenses is more appropriate so that the Pentagon and
a contractor work together during development.  A fixed-priced contract “certainly shifts risks to
industry,” Kendall said. “But there’s inherent risk in most
development programs, and I think we need to balance that.”  Kendall told an audience today at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in  Washington  that he wants “to back
off a little bit” from fixed-price incentive contracts. He said
his message to defense program managers is: “Use the right type
of contracts. Think about what you are doing.”  Senate Armed Services Committee lawmakers, including
Chairman Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat, and ranking Republican
John McCain of  Arizona , said in 2009 in  introducing  the Weapon
Systems Acquisition Reform Act, which became law,  that it was
intended to increase the use of fixed-price contracts.  Asked if he anticipated resistance from Congress and the
Senate panel in particular, Kendall said, “I don’t think we are
very far apart at the end of the day. As long as we are left
some flexibility, we’re OK.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  