-- Philippines to Urge China to Start Sea Code Talks at Summit
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2012-11-14T04:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/philippines-to-urge-china-to-start-sea-code-talks-at-summit-1-.html
Philippine President Benigno Aquino
will urge  China  to start negotiations on a set of rules to avoid
conflict in the South China Sea during a regional summit next
week, a government official said.  The 10-member  Association of Southeast Asian Nations  in
July agreed on a code of conduct for operating in the waters.
China, undergoing a once-in-a-decade leadership transition, said
at the time it will start talks with Asean “when conditions are
ripe,” according to the official Xinhua News Agency.  “We are ready to negotiate with China,” Raul Hernandez,
spokesman for the Philippine foreign affairs department, told
reporters in  Manila  today, referring to Asean. “We hope China
would respond positively, and immediately tackle this issue so
we can have something binding.”  China has resisted calls by Asean members and U.S.
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to quickly reach a deal on a
code of conduct, preferring instead to push for joint
development of resources to ease tensions.  Vietnam  and the
Philippines reject China’s map of the sea as a basis for sharing
oil, gas and fish in the waters.  Asean leaders will meet with Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao and
U.S. President  Barack Obama , Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihiko
Noda and other regional leaders during meetings in Phnom Penh
next week. Cambodia holds Asean’s rotating chairmanship.  Non-Binding Guidelines  Last year, Asean and China agreed on guidelines to
implement a non-binding agreement signed in 2002 that called on
signatories to avoid occupying disputed islands, inform others
of military exercises and resolve territorial disputes
peacefully. The eight guidelines approved last year say
activities in the sea should be step-by-step, on a voluntary
basis and based on consensus.  While Asean reached agreement on elements of a code of
conduct in the South China Sea, the bloc failed to reach
consensus on handling disputes in the waters in a communique.
They eventually agreed on six principles that avoided mentioning
a standoff earlier this year between China and the  Philippines 
over the Scarborough Shoal, which both countries claim.  “With these six principles on the South China Sea issue,
we can move forward and these summits will be on a totally
different dynamic,” Hernandez said. “We are hoping and
expecting that there will be smooth and very productive results
on these meetings.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  