-- Polish Bonds Rally as Slowing Inflation Prompts Rate Cut Call
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-11-14T15:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/polish-bonds-rally-as-inflation-probably-slowed-to-22-month-low.html
Polish bond yields fell as a report
showing inflation grew at the slowest pace since December 2010
prompted central banker Anna Zielinska-Glebocka to call for
quicker  interest-rate  cuts.  The yield on notes maturing in July 2014 declined eight
basis points to 3.65 percent as of 4:15 p.m. in Warsaw, a record
low for a two-year benchmark. The zloty appreciated 0.3 percent
to 4.1727 per euro, paring this month’s drop to 0.9 percent, the
second-steepest among more than 20 emerging-market currencies.  Polish consumer prices slowed below the upper end of the
central bank’s tolerance range for the first time in almost two
years with index falling to 3.4 percent from 3.8 percent in
September, according to statistics office. Policy makers should
move as “quickly as possible” to cut the benchmark interest
rate to 3.75 percent by the end of the first quarter from 4.5
percent, Zielinska-Glebocka said in TVN CNBC interview today.  “Declining inflation, along with constantly deteriorating
growth perspectives, will influence the Monetary Policy
Council’s stance,” Ernest Pytlarczyk, chief economist at BRE
Bank SA in Warsaw, wrote in an e-mailed note today. “Market
expectations of rate cuts can thus be constantly stimulated by
new economic releases.”  Rates Reversal  BRE Bank expects the central bank to reduce borrowing costs
by a total of 150 basis points, including a quarter percentage
point reduction on Nov. 7. Policy makers have reversed their
decision to increase rate in May after reports showed the
economy slowed to its weakest pace in almost three years because
of the euro debt crisis.  Gross domestic product  probably decelerated further to 1.8
percent in the third quarter from 2.3 percent in the second
quarter, the statistic office will say on Nov. 30, according to
a median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 26 economists.  “The choice is between a 25 basis-point and a 50 basis-
point cut in December,”  Rafal Benecki , chief economist for
 Poland  at ING Groep NV in Warsaw, said in e-mailed comment
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  