-- Polish Inflation Slows to Below Central Bank Upper Limit
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-11-14T13:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/polish-inflation-slows-to-below-central-bank-upper-limit.html
Polish  consumer-price growth  slowed
to below the upper end of the central bank’s tolerance range for
the first time in almost two years, boosting expectations for
interest-rate cuts.  The annual inflation rate fell to 3.4 percent, compared
with 3.8 percent in September, the statistical office in Warsaw
said today. That was under the 3.5 percent upper end of the
bank’s tolerance range for the first time since December 2010,
and matched the median  estimate  of 33 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Prices rose 0.4 percent from the previous month.  As the euro region’s crisis drags on, inflation in the
European Union’s biggest eastern economy may decelerate to 2.5
percent by mid-2013, according to the Narodowy Bank Polski,
meeting the central bank’s target for the first time since
September 2010. Slowing price growth may boost investors’
expectations for more monetary easing after the central bank cut
the benchmark rate last week for the first time since 2009.  “We’ve gotten back to a level monetary policy makers can
accept,” Jaroslaw Janecki, chief economist at Societe Generale
in Warsaw, said in an interview on TVN CNBC. “There’s a big
chance we will see the 2.5 percent inflation target reached in
the early months of next year.”  Easing Expansion  The zloty weakened to 4.1773 per euro at 2:11 p.m. in
Warsaw, paring its gain to 0.2 percent on the day. The average
 yield  on the government’s two-year Treasury bond dropped 3 basis
points after the data to 3.64 percent.  Poland’s  expansion  may ease to 1.5 percent next year, the
least since 2002, with inflation slowing to 1.5 percent in two
years, the lowest rate since 2007 and the bottom of the bank’s
tolerance range, according to central bank new forecasts. The
economy, the only one in the EU to avoid a recession in 2009,
expanded 4.3 percent last year.  The central bank is poised to cut borrowing costs twice in
coming months as the inflation rate heads toward a three-year
low, policy maker  Adam Glapinski  said in an interview on Nov.
10. “Anything can happen if the slowdown triggers a radical
drop in the inflation rate,” said Glapinski, indicating that
the bank may consider a larger scale of monetary easing.  Deteriorating demand will push Polish inflation to 2.6
percent in 2013 from an estimated 3.8 percent this year, driven
by rising administered prices, zloty depreciation and higher
commodity prices, the European Commission said in its revised
forecast on Nov. 7. Consumer prices will rise 2.4 percent in
2014 even as the economy experiences a “modest pick-up in
economic activity,” the commission said.  The central bank should continue monetary easing without
delay, policy maker Anna Zielinska-Glebocka was cited as saying
in an interview published yesterday by PAP newswire. There’s
room for cumulative rate cuts of as much as 1 percentage point,
including 25 basis points this month, PAP quoted her as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  