-- Rothko ‘No. 1’ Sells for $75 Million at Sotheby’s in NYC
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-11-14T00:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/pollock-painting-fetches-record-40-4-million-a-sotheby-s.html
A 1951 drip painting by Jackson Pollock sold for $40.4 million at  Sotheby’s (BID)  in New York tonight,
setting an auction record for the Abstract Expressionist artist
(1912-1956).  It was soon topped by  Mark Rothko ’s “No. 1 (Royal Red and
Blue),” which sold for $75.1 million, against the presale
estimate of $35 million to $50 million. Rothko’s auction record
of $86.9 million was set at Christie’s in May.  Pollock’s “Number 4” was consigned by Sidney Kohl, co-
founder of closely held finance firm  Alliant Co.,  and his wife,
Dorothy. It had a presale estimate of $25 million to $35
million.  It was bought by a client represented by Lisa Dennison,
Sotheby’s chairman of North and South America. The price smashed
Pollock’s previous auction record established only six months
ago when “Number 28” (1956) from the estate of collector David
Pincus sold for $23 million at Christie’s.  The painting is a maze of color and movement, layered all
over with red, blue, yellow, green and ochre oil paint, cloudy
aluminum paint, and spidery drips of black enamel.  “It’s a great Pollock,” said art dealer  Dorothea Elkon ,
whose late husband, Robert Elkon, sold the painting to the Kohls
in 1974 for $105,000. “I can’t tell you how many collectors
have asked me over the years if Sidney would sell it. He simply
didn’t want to.”  Classic drip paintings by Pollock are hard to come by,
according to Suzanne Gyorgy, global head of art advisory and
finance at Citi Private Bank.  “Many of the top collectors we work with, when you ask
them what’s on their wish list, a drip  Jackson Pollock  is one of
the top items,” she said.  The work, which had been guaranteed by Sotheby’s, a third
party or a combination thereof, according to the catalog; a
third party also provided Sotheby’s with an irrevocable bid on
the lot, ensuring that the work will sell.  The Rothko was consigned by Anne Marion, owner of Burnett
Cos. in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , whose husband John L. Marion had been
Sotheby’s chairman and chief auctioneer.  Almost 9.5 feet tall and 5.5 feet wide, the painting was
among eight pieces selected by Rothko for his solo exhibition at
the Art Institute of Chicago in 1954.  In 1982, Ben Heller, a major collector and private dealer
of Abstract Expressionism, sold the Rothko to Anne Marion for
less than $500,000, he said.  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Greg
Evans  on television.  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 