-- Portugal Telecom to Meet Three-Year Dividend Plan, CEO Says
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-11-15T09:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/portugal-telecom-will-meet-three-year-dividend-plan-ceo-says.html
Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC) , Portugal’s
biggest telecommunications company, is confident it will
generate enough  cash flow  to deliver on a three-year dividend
plan, Chief Executive Officer  Zeinal Bava  said.  Portugal Telecom said on June 27 it would pay an annual
 dividend  of 32.5 euro cents a share for the years 2012 to 2014.
The company, which paid 65 cents a share in dividends on last
year’s earnings, announced a 200 million-euro ($255 million)
share buyback program for the three-year period on the same day.  “The board of Portugal Telecom remains absolutely
confident that we will be able to generate cash flow to pay that
dividend,” Bava said yesterday in an interview at a conference
in Barcelona organized by Morgan Stanley.  The former state monopoly is betting on its Brazilian unit
to counter falling sales in Portugal, which is entering its
third year of recession after seeking a bailout in 2011.
Portugal Telecom bought a stake in Brazilian operator Telemar
Norte Leste SA, now known as  Oi SA (OIBR4) , in March 2011.  “We will continue to invest in the transformation of our
business, not just in Portugal, but also in Brazil,” said Bava.  Oi, Brazil’s fourth-largest mobile operator by market
share, reaffirmed its net income forecast for the year yesterday
and reported a higher-than-expected third-quarter profit.
Portugal Telecom’s third-quarter operating revenue, excluding
sales from its Brazilian assets, fell 5.4 percent to 770 million
euros, it said Nov. 8.  Portugal Telecom fell 0.1 percent to 3.73 euros as of 9:21
a.m. in Lisbon, its fifth straight day of declines.  Bava declined to comment on whether Portugal Telecom was
looking to sell its stake in Macau service operator Companhia de
Telecomunicacoes de Macau, S.A.R.L. “We never comment on
mergers and acquisitions,” he said.  Citic Pacific Ltd. (267) , controlled by China’s biggest state-
owned  investment company , said on Oct. 17 it’s in talks to buy
 Cable & Wireless Communications Plc (CWC) ’s stake in Companhia de
Telecomunicacoes de Macau. Portugal Telecom owns a 28 percent
stake in CTM, according to its  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Barcelona at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  