-- Portuguese Economy Contracts for an Eighth Straight Quarter
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-11-14T12:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/portuguese-economy-contracts-for-an-eighth-straight-quarter.html
Portugal ’s economy shrank for an
eighth quarter and unemployment rose to a euro-era record as the
government implemented austerity measures in an attempt to rein
in its budget deficit and curb debt.  Gross domestic product  declined 0.8 percent in the third
quarter from the second quarter, when it fell 1.1 percent, the
National Statistics Institute said in a preliminary report
today. Economists projected a decrease of 0.6 percent, the
median of nine estimates in a Bloomberg survey showed. The
 jobless  rate rose to 15.8 percent in the three months through
September from 15 percent in the second quarter, the Lisbon-
based statistics institute said in a separate statement.  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  is battling rising
joblessness and a deepening recession as he cuts spending and
raises taxes to meet the terms of a 78 billion-euro ($99
billion) aid plan from the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund . The government already has been given more time
to narrow its budget shortfall after  tax revenue  missed
forecasts.  “Portugal is suffering from a milder strain of the Greek
disease,” said Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy in  London . “Even after the troika cut the
government some fiscal slack, the outlook for GDP is extremely
bleak. The credibility of the government’s fiscal consolidation
program risks being undermined by the severity of the
downturn.”  ‘Recovering Our Life’  GDP fell 3.4 percent from a year earlier, the biggest
annual decline since the second quarter of 2009, as export
growth slowed, the report showed.  Greece ’s economy shrank 7.2
percent in the third quarter of 2012 compared with the same
period a year earlier, the Hellenic Statistical Authority said
in a separate report today.  “We know that overcoming this situation depends largely on
ourselves,” Passos Coelho said today in a speech broadcast by
television channel SIC Noticias as he visited a factory of
Sicasal SA, a maker of sausages and other meat products, outside
Lisbon. “We are not carrying out an adjustment process that is
very difficult to show that we are obedient, but because that is
the way of recovering our life.”  The  Portuguese government  aims to reach a  budget deficit  of
5 percent of GDP in 2012 and 4.5 percent in 2013. It will only
cut the deficit below the EU’s 3 percent limit in 2014, when it
targets a 2.5 percent gap.  ‘Enormous’ Increase  Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar on Oct. 3 said the government
plans to implement an “enormous” increase in taxes on wages
and other income to meet deficit targets in 2013, when the
economy is set to contract for a third year. The government
projects GDP will fall 1 percent in 2013 after dropping 3
percent this year.  Economic growth  has averaged less than 1 percent a year for
the past decade, placing Portugal among  Europe ’s weakest
performers. The government predicts the  unemployment rate  will
rise to 16.4 percent in 2013 from 15.5 percent this year.  Labor group CGTP is holding a strike today to protest
against the government’s austerity measures. State-owned airline
TAP SGPS SA has canceled some flights and Lisbon’s metro service
is shut.  The number of unemployed workers from industries including
manufacturing, construction and energy rose 24.3 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, while the increase from
services was 28.4 percent, the statistics institute said today.  Auto Industry  Portuguese  light-vehicle sales  fell 41 percent in the 10
months through October compared with the same period in 2011,
the Portuguese Automobile Association said on Nov. 5. An
estimated 2,600 companies in the  auto industry  may close this
year, representing a loss of 21,000 jobs, according to ACAP.  Brisa-Auto Estradas de Portugal SA , Portugal’s biggest
highway operator, said on Oct. 31 that toll revenue declined 9.8
percent in the first nine months of the year.  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP) , Portugal’s second-largest
bank by market value, on Nov. 5 said it plans to cut 600 jobs
after posting a nine-month loss of 796 million euros due to
impairment charges.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  