-- Posco Studying Bid for ArcelorMittal Canadian Iron Ore Mines
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k   a n d   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-11-14T13:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/posco-studying-bid-for-arcelormittal-canadian-iron-ore-mines-1-.html
Posco (005490) , Asia’s third-largest
steelmaker, is considering buying a stake in ArcelorMittal Mines
 Canada  Inc. after last month scrapping a bid for Australia’s
 Arrium Ltd. (ARI)   “We are studying” a possible stake purchase in the iron
ore asset in Canada, Kim Ji Young, a Seoul-based spokeswoman,
said today by phone. “At the moment, nothing has been
determined.”  A group including Posco may seek to buy about 10 percent of
ArcelorMittal Mines Canada that’s worth about $1 billion,
MoneyToday reported earlier, citing unidentified banking
officials. Posco, which may invest as much as $300 million,
hired Morgan Stanley to advise on the possible stake purchase,
the Korean-language news provider said. The balance of funds
would be raised from the partners, which weren’t identified.  ArcelorMittal (MT)  is considering selling about 30 percent of
its Canadian iron ore unit, a person familiar with the matter
said Oct. 20. ArcelorMittal is working with Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Royal Bank of Canada, according to the person, who
asked not to be named because the deliberations are private.  ArcelorMittal declined to comment. The Luxembourg-based
steelmaker fell 0.3 percent to 12.11 euros as of 1:40 p.m. in
Amsterdam trading.  Dividend Cut  ArcelorMittal has lowered the dividend, is selling assets
and moving output to cheaper sites to help cut $23.2 billion of
debt. ArcelorMittal’s rating was reduced to junk by Moody’s
Investors Service on Nov. 8, which said the debt reduction
required by the steelmaker to keep its investment grade was “so
large as to be unachievable.”  Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating
to junk on Aug. 2.  Chief Financial Officer  Aditya Mittal  said last month that
while the company isn’t planning to offload mining assets it’s
not ruling out selling stakes in its iron ore assets.  ArcelorMittal Mines Canada produces about 15 million metric
tons of iron ore concentrate a year and more than 9 million tons
of iron oxide pellets, according to its  website . It operates two
open pit mines and produces about 40 percent of Canada’s iron
ore output.  Posco was a member of a group with  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL)  and
Korean investors that terminated a A$1.2 billion ($1.25 billion)
offer for Sydney-based Arrium last month after the target’s
board refused to engage with the group. Arrium is an Australian
steelmaker and  iron ore  producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net ;
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  