-- Potash Export Grip Challenged in China’s Bond Deal: Commodities
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-11-14T16:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/potash-exports-grip-challenged-in-china-s-bond-deal-commodities.html
China ’s loan to potash billionaire
Suleiman Kerimov should give the country its first direct access
to companies that dominate supplying the crop nutrient to the
global fertilizer industry.  The China Investment Corp. sovereign wealth fund last week
agreed to buy bonds from the investor and his partners that they
can repay in 2014 with a 12.5 percent stake in  Russia ’s OAO
Uralkali, the world’s largest potash producer. The deal
underscored the worldwide contest for potash assets two weeks
after Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said  Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  proposed buying  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL) 
to overtake Uralkali as the top exporter.  China imports about a fifth of global shipments of potash,
valued at about $19.4 billion by Bloomberg Industries, using it
to enhance crops that feed the most-populous nation. Producers’
pricing power may be hurt should their biggest customer own a
stake in the largest supplier, according to Bank of America
Corp. analysts.  “Should CIC become a large shareholder in Uralkali, it may
get on to the board and get access to sensitive contract
talks,”  Alexei Morozov , a Moscow-based UBS AG analyst, said by
phone Nov. 12. “China will be better positioned during price
talks and may be able to negotiate lower contract prices, which
will affect global spot prices in turn.”  China Prices  The current price for China is $470 a metric ton, including
cost, insurance and freight. China should ask suppliers to cut
potash import prices by 26 percent to less than $350 a ton
because of weaker demand and a buildup of stocks, Wei
Chengguang, president of China Potassium Salts Industrial
Association, said in an Oct. 16 interview. An e-mail request for
comment to CIC’s Beijing-based press office today wasn’t
answered.  Five companies account for more than two-thirds of the
annual exports of potash, a potassium-based compound that
strengthens plant roots and protects against drought.  Uralkali, based in Berezniki, Russia, has a trading joint
venture with Belaruskali, a Belarus-based supplier, while
Canpotex Ltd. sells potash produced by Potash Corp.,  Agrium Inc. (AGU) 
and  Mosaic Co. (MOS)  The group controlled 69 percent of global potash
exports in the first half of 2012, Uralkali figures  show .  “The potash industry is viewed as a cartel where suppliers
benefit from a high degree of industry consolidation,” Bank of
America analysts said in a Nov. 12 report.  Attractive Margins  That grip on supplies has meant attractive margins for
potash producers, among the most profitable mining companies.
Uralkali’s average export sale price is six times the cost per
ton of production, excluding freight costs, data from Uralkali
show. Freight may more than double the cost per ton, according
to the company.  Uralkali’s margin on earnings before income, taxes,
depreciation and amortization was 64 percent in the first half.
CIC might have had a lesser profit opportunity investing in OAO
GMK  Norilsk Nickel , Russia’s largest mining company, whose
Ebitda margin was 42 percent in the period, or  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , which had a 53 percent rate in the last fiscal year.  “CIC is an investment fund, set up to increase yields,”
Uralkali’s Chief Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner said in
e-mailed comments yesterday. “Thus it should be interested in
Uralkali’s profit increase and in growing potash prices in all
markets.” The transaction between Kerimov, his partners and CIC
doesn’t impose any commercial obligations on Uralkali, he said.  Sinochem Approach  CIC International didn’t give details of its plans for the
bonds or the potential 12.5 percent stake in Uralkali in a
statement on Nov. 9 on its website announcing the transaction.  China has been seeking an opportunity to invest in potash
makers since at least 2009, when  Sinochem Group  made an offer
for  Nufarm Ltd. (NUF) ,  Australia ’s biggest supplier of farm chemicals,
for a possible takeover.  State-owned Sinochem was the most likely potential counter
bidder to BHP Billiton Ltd.’s $40 billion approach for Potash
Corp. in 2010, people familiar with the matter said at the time.  CIC’s investment in Uralkali “signifies the importance of
potash to China,” Daniel Yakub, a Citigroup Inc. analyst in
Moscow, wrote in a note on Nov. 9. CIC may buy additional shares
in Uralkali in the market, said Konstantin Yuminov, an analyst
at Raiffeisen Bank.  A possible Potash Corp. deal with  Israel ’s ICL and CIC’s
investment in Uralkali aren’t the only ownership changes to the
global potash oligopoly that investors are weighing.  President Lukashenko  Belarus may sell as much as 20 percent of Belaruskali,
which produces about 15 percent of world’s potash, Belta news
agency reported Nov. 12, citing President  Aleksandr Lukashenko .
Last year Lukashenko named China as one of the possible bidders
for the potash producer.  The Uralkali-CIC transaction shifts the balance of power
between buyers and the suppliers and puts pressures on other
producers, Jason Miner, a Princeton, New Jersey-based analyst at
Bloomberg Industries, said Nov. 12. “This potentially gives
China more insight into the cost position of all producers,
which is really what shifts the balance,” he said.  Uralkali depositary receipts fell as much as 1.7 percent in
 London  today, valuing the company at $21.8 billion. Potash Corp.
slid as much as 1.2 percent to $37.54 in Toronto.  Stockpiles of potash rose 11 percent from December through
the end of August to 4 million tons, undermining efforts by
Uralkali, Potash Corp. and other producers to renew contracts
with buyers in China.  China Factor  “China is now a key factor in defining the global potash
price for 2013,” Raiffeisen Bank’s Yuminov said. Any decline
from the current $470 per ton will lead to a drop in spot
prices, he said.  Uralkali reduced third-quarter output by 700,000 tons from
planned volumes because of an “unfavorable situation” in
markets including China and  India , it said last month.  K+S AG (SDF) ,  Europe ’s largest potash maker, said Nov. 13 it
expects 2012 sales and profit to be at the low end of its
targeted range as delays in Chinese and Indian contracts
restrain market prices for the crop nutrient.  China is “very determined” to pay less than the $470 ton
it negotiated for the first six months of 2012, Mosaic CEO Jim Prokopanko said Oct. 2. Bank of America set 2013 contract potash
price targets for China at $420 per ton, according to Nov. 12
report, at the same time cutting its recommendation on Uralkali
stock from buy to neutral.  Spot potash prices for the North American market fell 7
percent from January to $664.70 a ton,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Little Threat  Still, CIC’s investment in Uralkali may pose little threat
to the potash market, according to Fertecon Ltd., a  Tunbridge
Wells , England-based industry consulting company whose clients
have included  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Exxon Mobil Corp.  “It is essentially a financial investment rather than a
strategic investment to have influence on the potash market,”
Barrie Bain, director of Fertecon, said by e-mail Nov. 12.  The Chinese fund should be interested in seeing Urakali’s
market capitalization grow, because it needs to exchange bonds
into stock, rather than merely achieve a relatively small yield,
Yuminov said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  