-- Pound Weakens as BOE’s King Sees Risk of ‘Persistent Low Growth’
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-11-14T17:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/pound-is-little-changed-before-unemployment-inflation-reports.html
The pound fell to the lowest level
in two weeks against the euro after the Bank of England said the
U.K. economy may contract this quarter, fueling speculation it
will need to add further stimulus to boost growth.  Sterling erased a gain versus the dollar as the central
bank warned there was a “greater risk that the U.K. economy may
be in a period of persistent low growth.” The Monetary Policy
Committee halted expansion of its  asset-purchase  target, or
quantitative easing, last week after some officials raised
doubts about the effectiveness of the program. Gilts dropped,
pushing 10-year yields up by the most in three weeks.  “The projections and comments from the Bank of England
suggested the central bank hasn’t concluded the quantitative-
easing program,” said Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist
at Rabobank International in London. “The possibility of
further QE has put the pound under pressure.”  The U.K. currency slipped 0.4 percent to 80.39 pence per
euro at 5:03 p.m. London time, after reaching 80.45 pence, the
weakest since Oct. 31. Sterling slid 0.2 percent to $1.5847
after rising as much as 0.2 percent to $1.5901.  Sterling has gained 1.1 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. The euro fell 2.9 percent and the
dollar dropped 1.1 percent.  BOE Projections  Bank of England policy makers maintained their bond-buying
 target  at 375 billion pounds and kept the main  interest rate  at
a record-low 0.5 percent on Nov. 8. While the central bank cut
its growth outlook today, it raised its inflation projection.  “We face the rather unappealing combination of a subdued
recovery with inflation remaining above target for a while,”
Governor Mervyn King told reporters in  London  today. “The
committee has not lost faith in asset purchases as a policy
instrument, nor has it concluded that there will be no more
purchases.”  Gilts extended their decline as the upward revision in
inflation was taken by some analysts to mean the scope for
further bond purchases may be limited.  “The inflation profile has been revised up at the same
time the growth profile has deteriorated,” said Sam Hill, a
fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in London.
“This suggests the BOE sees less spare capacity in the economy
and that weak potential output growth is a barrier for further
stimulus.”  Gilts Slide  The benchmark 10-year gilt yield rose four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 1.75 percent, after climbing as much
as eight basis points, the most since Oct. 25. The 1.75 percent
bond maturing in September 2022 dropped 0.37, or 3.70 pounds per
1,000-pound face amount, to 99.99.  The yield on 30-year gilts climbed four basis points to
3.08 percent before the Debt Management Office sells 2 billion
pounds of bonds maturing in 2052 tomorrow.  The 10-year break-even rate, the difference between yields
on gilts and index-linked securities used as a market gauge of
inflation expectations, increased four basis points to 2.58
percentage points, the most since Oct. 26.  Gilts returned 3.5 percent this year through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds gained
4.1 percent and U.S. Treasuries rose 2.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  