-- PST Jumps From 3-Year Low on City Housing Project: Vilnius Mover
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2012-11-14T16:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/pst-jumps-from-3-year-low-on-city-housing-project-vilnius-mover.html
AB Panevezio Statybos Trestas (PTR1L) ,
Lithuania’s largest publicly traded construction company, rose
from a three-year low after gaining a municipal approval for an
urban renewal project in central Vilnius.  The shares rose 3.7 percent to 0.944 euros on the Nasdaq
OMX Vilnius exchange. Volume of 8,275 shares was just above the
three-month daily average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Vilnius city council approved preliminary plans for an
urban renewal project to build 65,000 square meters of
residential and commercial floorspace by 2018, the company’s
real-estate development unit said late yesterday on its  website .
The initiative, which the government is expected to finance,
will begin in and around the territory of a former factory now
in the possession of a related company, it said.  Before today, PST shares had lost 12.5 percent of their
value since the end of parliamentary elections on Oct. 28. The
Social Democrat party, which won the election and will probably
lead a new coalition government, is opposed to a nuclear plant
project in which PST was expected to participate, SEB Bankas
Senior Broker Arvydas Jacikevicius said, as quoted today in
Verslo Zinios newspaper.  PST has projects in  Lithuania ,  Russia , Scandinavia and the
U.K., according to its  website . Its  shareholders  include funds
managed by Legg Mason, which owns 5.73 percent, and Eaton Vance
Management, with 1.98 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Lithuanian road and railway builder AB Panevezio
Keliai held 49.78 percent of shares at the end of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  