-- Rand Falls to 5-Week Low as Mining Slump Stokes Exports Concern
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-11-14T14:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/rand-advances-most-in-a-week-as-gold-platinum-prices-increase.html
The rand declined for a third day,
falling to a five-week low against the dollar, on investor
concern that the nation’s current-account gap will widen as
metal exports decline. Bond yields rose to two-week highs.  South Africa ’s currency retreated as much as 0.8 percent to
8.8685 per dollar, the weakest since Oct. 9. It traded 0.7
percent down at 8.8590 as of 4:40 p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields
on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026 climbed four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.71 percent, the
highest since Oct. 31.  South Africa’s mining production slumped the most in five
months in September amid the worst labor unrest since apartheid,
cutting as much as 12.5 billion rand ($1.4 billion) from the
country’s exports and adding to the widest trade deficit in four
years, according to government data. Platinum production has
fallen to an 11-year low as violent strikes and mine closures
cut output, London-based Johnson Matthey Plc said yesterday.  “One now gets to see the impact of all this industrial
unrest on the ability of the South African economy to mine the
product and sell it to foreigners,” ETM Analysts, including
Johannesburg-based  George Glynos , said in an e-mailed note. “It
is part and parcel of the reason for South Africa’s lacklustre
export performance and again speaks to the necessity to attract
the kind of inflows required to finance our trade deficits or
face the prospect of a weaker rand.”  The shortfall on South Africa’s current-account gap, the
broadest measure of trade in goods and services, widened to 6.4
percent of gross domestic product in the second quarter, the
biggest deficit in almost four years.  ANC Congress  Investors are also concerned that the ruling  African
National Congress ’ elective congress next month will usher in
policy changes that may harm the economy, said  Brigid Taylor ,
head of institutional flow sales at Nedbank Group Ltd. in
Johannesburg. The party’s youth wing has lobbied for a
government takeover of mining assets.  “The rand still faces headwinds in the face of
uncertainties pertaining to political issues and continued
unrest in the mining sector,” Taylor said in e-mailed comments.
“We expect the unit to trade weaker for the remainder of the
year.”  The rand’s three-month implied volatility against the
dollar climbed 12 basis points today to 14.5 percent, the most
out of 25 emerging-market currencies monitored by Bloomberg.
Rising volatility indicates that options traders expect wider
swings in the currency in coming months.  South African retail sales growth eased more than forecast
in September as  consumer confidence  waned because of slowing
economic expansion. Retail sales rose 4.3 percent from a year
earlier, below the revised 6.7 percent pace in August, Pretoria-
based Statistics South Africa said on its website today. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 12 economists was for
growth of 4.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  