-- U.S. Yields at Almost 2-Month Lows as Fed May Add Bonds
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-11-14T22:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/treasuries-yields-show-inflation-expectation-falling.html
Treasuries 10-year note yields
traded close to two-month lows as Federal Reserve policy makers
said the central bank may need to increase bond purchases next
year to boost the economic recovery.  The benchmark note rallied for the fifth straight day as
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S. can’t afford to extend Bush
tax cuts for the wealthy as lawmakers seek to address the budget
deficit and avoid the so-called fiscal cliff. The difference
between the yield on the two-year note and the 10-year security
narrowed to almost the least in two months.  “Yields are not all that attractive, but bonds continue to
be a relative safe haven,” said Brian Edmonds, head of interest
rates at Cantor Fitzgerald LP, in New York one of 21 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed. “The stock market is probably
nervous about the fiscal cliff. What will probably happen is
that we’ll kick the can down the road.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  dropped to 1.59 percent at 4:59
p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The
price of the 1.625 percent note due in November 2022 rose 1/32
or 31 cents per $1,000 face amount to 100 10/32. The yield
dropped to 1.57 percent yesterday, the lowest level since Sept.
5. It climbed as high as 1.63 percent today.  Range Trade  “There’s not enough motivation to break us through to a
lower-yield range,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond
strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“We’ve reached a zone where the Treasury market is
consolidating.”  The so-called yield curve measuring the gap between yields
on two- and 10-year debt widened to 1.35 percentage points,
after dropping to 1.32 percentage points yesterday. It steepened
to a 2012 high of 2 percentage points in March.  A yield curve plots the rates of bonds of the same quality,
but different maturities. It steepens when yields on shorter-
maturity notes fall, those on longer-dated bonds rise, or both
happen simultaneously.  In minutes released today, a number of Fed officials said
the central bank may need to expand its monthly purchases of
bonds next year after the expiration of Operation Twist in
December.  Fed Views  “A number of participants indicated that additional asset
purchases would likely be appropriate next year after the
conclusion of the maturity-extension program,” according to the
record of the Federal Open Market Committee’s Oct. 23-24
gathering released today in  Washington .  “Everyone expected there was a significant chance we would
get more QE,” Cantor Fitzgerald’s Edmonds said. “We have the
FOMC continuing to buy bonds.”  The Fed is swapping short-term Treasuries in its holdings
with those due in six to 30 years to put downward pressure on
borrowing costs. The central bank sold $7.67 billion of
securities due from May 2015 to June 2015 today, according to
the Fed Bank of New York’s  website .  The minutes also show a detailed discussion about whether
the central bank should link its policy of holding the main
interest rate at zero to numerical measurements of unemployment
and inflation, an approach that participants “generally
favored” over the current approach of specifying a calendar
date through which rates will remain low.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 dropped 1.4 percent today. It has
fallen 5.1 percent since Obama was re-elected.  Bullish Shift  Treasuries investors increased bullish positions to the
most in almost four months in the week ending yesterday,
according to a survey by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The  proportion  of net longs was at 11 percentage points, up
from four percentage point, according to the survey.  The percent of outright longs rose to 26 percent, from 17
percent the previous week, the survey said. The percent of
outright shorts, or bets the securities will fall in value, rose
to 15 percent, from 13 percent, according to the survey.
Investors cut neutral bets to 59 from 70, which was the highest
level since August.  Previous budget negotiations that resulted in an extension
of the Bush tax cuts were a “one-time proposition,” Obama told
reporters today at a White House press conference. “We were
still very much in the early parts of recovering” from
recession.  The Congressional Budget Office has forecast that the $607
billion of automatic tax increases and spending cuts set to take
effect in January unless a budget agreement is reached would
push the economy into a recession next year.  Higher Yields  U.S. government securities retreated from the most
expensive levels in almost six weeks, reached yesterday. The 10-
year  term premium , a model created by economists at the Fed that
includes expectations for interest rates, growth and inflation,
was negative 0.92 percent. It touched negative 0.94 percent
yesterday, the most costly since Oct. 3. A negative reading
indicates investors are willing to accept yields below what’s
considered fair value. The average this year is negative 0.76
percent.  Treasury 10-year yields will climb to 2.01 percent by June
30, according to a Bloomberg survey of financial companies with
the most recent projections given the heaviest weightings.  Retail sales  in the U.S. fell in October for the first time
in four months, influenced by the effects of superstorm Sandy,
which hurt receipts for some and helped for others.  The 0.3 percent drop followed a 1.3 percent increase in
September that was larger than previously reported, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington. The median
forecast of 83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
drop of 0.2 percent. The Commerce Department said it was able to
collect information from the storm-affected area, even as it was
not able to quantify its impact.  Price Levels  Wholesale prices in the U.S. unexpectedly fell in October
for the first time in five months as energy and vehicle costs
dropped. The 0.2 percent decline in the producer price index
came after a 1.1 percent increase the prior month, Labor
Department figures showed. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 73 economists called for a 0.2 percent rise. Excluding
volatile food and energy, the so-called core measure decreased
0.2 percent, the first drop since November 2010.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity inflation-linked bonds, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices, was at 2.39 percentage points, the narrowest
since Sept. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  