-- Rehn to Pass Judgment on Spain Deficit, EU Official Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-11-14T15:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/rehn-to-pass-judgment-on-spain-deficit-eu-official-says-1-.html
European Union Economic and Monetary
Commissioner Olli Rehn will announce today whether Spain has
done enough to bring its  budget deficit  under control, an EU
official said.  Spain in July was given three months to take “effective
action” by cutting the structural deficit by 2.7 percentage
points in 2012 and 2.5 points in 2013. The EU said on Nov. 7
that the Spanish government would fail to meet its overall
deficit targets through 2014, when the budget shortfall is
forecast to be more than double the bloc’s limit.  Rehn will render his verdict in a statement at 4:15 p.m. in
Brussels.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  already is
implementing the deepest budget cuts on record, reducing
spending on health, education and jobless benefits, while
increasing sales tax and levies on income. Even so, fiscal
consolidation “hardly advanced in the first eight months of
2012,’’ the EU said on Nov. 7, as the economy continues to
shrink, pushing the  unemployment rate  to 26 percent.  Opposition to Rajoy’s cuts is growing while those measures
are failing to rein in the deficit or bring down borrowing
costs. Spanish workers today staged a second general strike this
year as unions across  Europe  prepared the biggest coordinated
protests yet against budget cuts.  Budget Cuts  Demands for less austerity are gaining traction as the
 International Monetary Fund  recommends nations including Spain
slow the pace of budget cuts. In Spain, unions said most auto
and metal workers joined the strike.  Spain’s budget gap will amount to 6.4 percent of gross
domestic product in 2014, compared with a target set by the EU
of 2.8 percent, the European Commission said on Nov. 7. It
predicted budget shortfalls of 8 percent this year and 6 percent
in 2013, up from May forecasts of 6.4 percent and 6.3 percent,
respectively.  Spain’s IBEX 35 increased 0.6 percent and the euro traded
higher against the dollar after Rehn’s office said the
commissioner planned a statement on Spain this afternoon without
giving more detail on the topic. The European currency, which
has declined more than 6 percent in the past year, was 0.3
percent higher on the day at $1.2738 at 3:55 p.m. in Brussels.  At a meeting of European finance ministers in Brussels
yesterday, Rehn said a proposal on  Spain  will be presented
“shortly.” The country is “working hard” to meet its fiscal
targets, he said.  “Spain is in the process of substantiating its fiscal
consolidation measures in the next two years,” Rehn told
reporters at the Brussels meeting. “We will focus on the
structural sustainability of public finances over the medium
term. That means structural effort, not only the nominal
target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  