-- Prokhorov Said to Rebuff Rencap Funding Pleas Before Buy
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-11-15T09:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/renaissance-capital-ceo-jennings-said-to-leave-as-prokhorov-buys.html
Stephen Jennings , who founded
 Russia ’s Renaissance Capital 17 years ago, will step down after
billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov  rebuffed his requests seeking more
cash for the money-losing investment bank, said two people with
knowledge of the talks.  Prokhorov’s Onexim Group, which purchased almost 50 percent
of the lender for $500 million four years ago, received two
approaches for additional funds in the past year from Jennings,
said the people, who requested anonymity because the talks are
private. The billionaire instead sought full control and plans
to return the securities unit to profit, the people said.  RenCap lost market share to domestic competitors with state
backing during the past four years. They include VTB Capital and
 OAO Sberbank (SBER) , which in January purchased Troika Dialog, Moscow’s
oldest securities firm. Jennings’s company responded by
eliminating jobs and cutting costs by 47 percent this year, one
of the people said.  “Renaissance Capital now has an ownership structure and
funding base that will enable the firm to quickly realize its
full potential,” Jennings said in an e-mail to employees
confirmed by RenCap. “Renaissance will be much more part of
‘the system,’ reducing risk and increasing revenue
opportunities.” Calls to his mobile phone weren’t answered and
he didn’t return messages left with his assistant.  Jennings Letter  John Hyman, deputy chief executive officer of the
investment bank, will replace Jennings as CEO, Onexim said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. Jennings, a 52-year-old New
Zealander, will remain as CEO of RenCap parent Renaissance
Group, which will focus on asset management. Terms of the deal
weren’t disclosed.  “It’s the end of an era for Renaissance and Russia,” said
Dmitri Kryukov, the Verno Capital founder who worked at RenCap
with Jennings as head of equity trading in the 1990s. “It won’t
be the same without Stephen, but the investment-banking
landscape had changed, and they had been squeezed so much by the
state banks.”  Hans-Joerg Rudloff, who was then CEO of  Credit Suisse First
Boston , sent Jennings and Boris Jordan to Russia in the early
1990s to scout for deals. The pair became involved in the
state’s pilot voucher auctions, which helped establish the
foundations for Russia’s capital markets, and left to set up
 Renaissance Capital  in 1995.  Andrey Kostin  Renaissance reduced the number of its bankers to 190 from
650 after Russia’s debt default in 1998 and cut staff again in
2008 by 40 percent from 1,150.  Andrey Kostin, CEO of VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest
lender, said he offered Jennings as much as $2.5 billion for
Renaissance in 2007. Instead, he founded VTB Capital the
following year, hiring more than 100 bankers from Deutsche Bank
AG, and became the top arranger of domestic debt and equity
sales in 2010.  Sberbank, the nation’s largest lender, acquired Troika
Dialog in January for an initial $1 billion and has since hired
senior RenCap bankers, including Dmitri Sredin, head of
Renaissance Advisors, and Eduard Jabarov, head of debt capital
markets. RenCap fell to 18th in Russian debt and equity sales
this year from fifth in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It was more and more difficult for them to compete,” Kostin said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg’s  New York 
headquarters. “He has to compete on one side with the Russian
institutions like VTB and on the other with giants like JPMorgan
or  Morgan Stanley. (MS) ”  International Firms  International firms are also scaling back in Moscow. ING
Groep NV, the biggest Dutch financial services company, said
last month it will close its Russian equities unit following
UniCredit SpA, which said in June would shutter its Russian
securities operation. RenCap has been closing offices in  India ,
Bejing and  Hong Kong , as well as shutting sales, trading and
research operations in Kazkahstan and Ukraine, people with
knowledge of the discussions said earlier this year.  “RenCap is finding that state investment banks have been a
threat in the short term, but globally we have yet to see state
institutions become leading innovators in the market over the
long term,” said Neil Withers, head of  investor relations  at
OAO Promsvyazbank, a Russian lender that hired RenCap to
organize its initial public offering next year.  Onexim Group extended its influence at the Renaissance
parent in February by taking minority stakes in its consumer-
finance unit, London-traded miner  Beacon Hill Resources Plc (BHR)  and
Ukrainian Agrarian Investments. Prokhorov, 47, has said he wants
to concentrate on politics and running for Moscow mayor.  ‘Dramatic Changes’  “Russia’s capital markets today are undergoing dramatic
changes that will open its doors to a wide array of broker-
dealers around the world,”  Luis Saenz , a former RenCap banker
who now heads equity sales and trading at Russian broker BCS
Financial Group, said in an e-mail. “The wide margins that
brokers in Russia historically claimed due to high barriers to
entry and opaque trading infrastructure are either no longer
there or will quickly disappear.”  BCS, owned by Siberian banker Oleg Mikhasenko, is seeking
to expand from its retail base to attract institutional clients.
The firm, previously known as BrokerCreditService, overtook
Otkritie Financial Corp. as the largest Russian broker on the
Micex Index in August, according to data posted on the Moscow
bourse’s website. RenCap was ranked fourth in October, behind
BCS, Finam and Otkritie Financial Corp., which is partly owned
by VTB.  Renaissance Capital has no relation to Greenwich,
Connecticut-based  Renaissance Capital LLC .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  