-- RIM Expects Government Customers to Embrace BlackBerry 10
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-11-14T21:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/rim-expects-government-customers-to-embrace-blackberry-10.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  Chief
Executive Officer Thorsten Heins expects his million-plus
government customers in  North America  to embrace the BlackBerry
10 devices the company is counting on for survival.  About 400,000 government customers worldwide got new
BlackBerry phones last year, and Heins said he sees at least
that many splurging on the new BB10 models next year. RIM, based
in Waterloo, Ontario, said this week that it will begin selling
the products in February on multiple continents.  “I would be surprised if we don’t see quite a wave moving
over to BlackBerry 10,” Heins said in an interview yesterday at
Bloomberg’s Washington office.  The BlackBerry 10 is the linchpin of RIM’s comeback fight,
following years of market-share losses to  Apple Inc.’s (AAPL)  iPhone
and devices running  Google Inc.’s (GOOG)  Android operating system. The
company’s shares have plunged more than 90 percent from their
peak in 2008, underscoring investors’ concerns that the
BlackBerry can regain customers and beat back challengers such
as Microsoft Corp.’s Windows Phone 8.  One analyst has said the new device may be dead on arrival.  “We believe BB10 is likely to be DOA,”  James Faucette , a
Pacific Crest Securities analyst in  Portland ,  Oregon , said in a
report last week. “We expect the new OS to be met with a
lukewarm response at best and ultimately likely to fail.”  BYOD Policies  Some of RIM’s earliest and most loyal customers have been
U.S. government agencies, which have used BlackBerrys for more
than a decade. Faced with a growing number of federal offices
that have embraced a bring-your-own device policy as a way of
saving money, Heins said he’s determined to keep their business.  “I want to capture the BYOD -- let me say, a significant
part of the BYOD segment -- in government and military,” said
Heins, dressed in a white shirt with an embroidered BlackBerry
logo on the pocket, a burgundy tie and matching BlackBerry
cufflinks.  RIM may need to sell more than 400,000 new phones in the
government market if it wants to make an impact, said Sameet Kanade, an analyst at Northern Securities in Toronto.  “Government is definitely one of their bread-and-butter
revenue streams, and so a big push from them for BB10 is key,”
he said. “If you have more government entities migrating to
other platforms, that will create more headwinds for RIM.”  Security Advantage  The BlackBerry has had an edge in security compared with
Apple’s iOS devices and Android phones, though that advantage is
shrinking, said Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc.
in  San Francisco . He has a neutral rating on RIM.  At the same time, the BlackBerry lags its competitors in
the number of applications it offers, he said. For government
agencies, that may trump the security benefits, Wu said.  “Security on both iOS and Android have been greatly
strengthened,” he said. “It’s arguably easier to replicate
that than the range of apps that Apple and Android offer.”  RIM rose 1.1 percent to $8.49 at the close in  New York .  Heins said the chief information officers he’s been meeting
with tell him that the BlackBerry 10 has put RIM back in the
running. “Many of them actually really said, once they saw this
concept and saw this product, ‘OK, looks like you guys are
back,’” Heins said.  Heins’s main selling point for the BlackBerry 10 is that it
lets users see multiple applications such as e-mail, texting and
social messaging in a central BlackBerry hub -- without having
to tap a home button to flip between apps like on the iPhone.
Apple’s approach was novel when it first arrived in 2007, but
it’s now outdated, he said.  IPhone Fatigue?  “We know there’s certain tiredness with other platforms
coming,” Heins said. “We see it and we hear it.”  RIM needs to challenge the perception within the U.S.
government that it’s losing ground to competitors, said  Larry Allen , president of Allen Federal Business Partners, a
consulting firm in McLean, Virginia. To win back business, the
company will have to increase its sales calls, marketing
presence and overall visibility, he said.  “That’s great if you have new technology, but technology
is only going to get you so far,” Allen said in an interview.  Heins, 54, a native of  Germany  who previously worked at
 Siemens AG (SIE) , has been circling the globe in recent weeks showing
carriers and customers what the BlackBerry 10 can do. He took
over as CEO in January following the resignation of founders and
former co-CEOs  Jim Balsillie  and  Mike Lazaridis . Since then,
he’s hired new marketing and sales chiefs and begun cutting
5,000 jobs as the company works to save $1 billion in operating
costs and return to profitability.  Licensing Deal?  Heins said in September that he plans to hold more meetings
in coming months to discuss BlackBerry 10 licensing and
partnerships. Securing a licensing deal before the introduction
of the new platform isn’t a priority, he said yesterday.  RIM also faces possible headwinds from government cutbacks.
Under last year’s deficit-reduction legislation, the U.S. faces
$1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts over a decade, with
half coming from defense. If the reductions, known as
sequestration, take effect on Jan. 2 as scheduled, it would
require cutting $110 billion from the budget for the fiscal year
that began Oct. 1.  Even if the White House and Congress negotiate a deal to
avert the cuts, information-technology budgets aren’t protected,
Allen said.  “IT budgets outside of the cyber world are fairly static,
if not diminishing,” he said. If RIM is going to win back
customers, the company will “have to take market share away
from someone else. With the sequestration, it certainly would
make it that much more difficult.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  