-- Rothko, Pollock Lead Sotheby’s Top Tally, $375 Million
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-11-14T05:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/rothko-pollock-lead-sotheby-s-top-tally-375-million.html
Sotheby’s bounced back from last
week’s lackluster sales with its biggest-ever auction, setting
records for six artists including  Jackson Pollock , Franz Kline
and Arshile Gorky.  The $375.1 million tally for contemporary art surpassed the
high presale estimate of $374.8 million, even with 11 of 69 lots
failing to sell. (Presale estimates don’t include the buyer’s
premium, while the sale total does.)  Collectors looked beyond  Washington ’s fiscal challenges and
a 4 percent decline in the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index since
last week’s re-election of President  Barack Obama .  “The art market is coated with Teflon,” said Joanne Heyler, director and chief curator of the  Broad Art Foundation ,
established by collector Eli Broad. “Fiscal cliffs, Eurozone
crises, hurricanes, nothing can really stop it. People are
looking for a place to put their money.”  Dealers said the caliber of the work boosted results.  “You don’t get new records unless you have things that are
perceived to be of the highest quality and are fresh to the
market,” said Frances Beatty, vice president of  Richard L.
Feigen & Co.,  a  New York  gallery. “In the contemporary market,
there’s a pretty deep list of collectors who want to reach for
trophy pictures.”  Mark Rothko ’s “No. 1 (Royal Red and Blue)” led the sale,
selling for $75.1 million, just shy of the artist’s auction
record of $86.9 million, set at Christie’s in May.  The victor was a client of Charles Moffett, Sotheby’s vice
chairman for Impressionist and modern art, who deals primarily
with U.S. buyers. Moffett facilitated the winning bid for Edvard Munch’s record-setting “The Scream” in May.  Kohl Group  Last night started with active bidding for eight Abstract
Expressionist paintings consigned by Sidney Kohl, co-founder of
closely held finance firm  Alliant Co.,  and his wife, Dorothy.  The group was led by a 1951 drip painting by Pollock,
“Number 4,” that sold for $40.4 million to a client
represented by Lisa Dennison,  Sotheby’s (BID)  chairman of North and
South America. The price smashed Pollock’s previous auction
record established just six months ago, when “Number 28”
(1956) sold for $23 million at Christie’s.  The record Pollock is a maze of color and movement, layered
all over with red, blue, yellow, green and ochre oil paint,
cloudy aluminum paint, and spidery drips of black enamel.  ‘Great Pollock’  “It’s a great Pollock,” said art dealer  Dorothea Elkon ,
whose late husband, Robert Elkon, sold the painting to the Kohls
in 1974 for $105,000. “I can’t tell you how many collectors
have asked me over the years if Sidney would sell it. He simply
didn’t want to.”  The work had been guaranteed by Sotheby’s, a third party or
a combination thereof, according to the catalog. A third party
also provided Sotheby’s with an irrevocable bid on the lot,
ensuring that the work would sell.  The Kohl group, which tallied $101.3 million, also set
records for Gorky, Kline and Hans Hofmann. The couple began
collecting Abstract Expressionism in the early 1970s. The pieces
they sold had been off the market for almost 40 years.  The Rothko was consigned by Anne Marion, owner of Burnett
Cos. in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , whose husband John L. Marion had been
Sotheby’s chairman and chief auctioneer.  In 1982, Ben Heller, a major collector and private dealer
of Abstract Expressionism, sold the Rothko for less than
$500,000, he said. More than 9 feet tall, it was among eight
pieces selected by the artist for his solo exhibition at the  Art
Institute of Chicago  in 1954.  Bacon’s ‘Pope’  Other highlights of the sale included  Francis Bacon ’s
“Untitled (Pope),” a 1954 oil on canvas depicting a screaming
man, which sold for $29.8 million.  Seven works by  Andy Warhol  tallied $54 million. The
priciest was a 1964 unique silkscreen on paper, “Suicide,”
which sold for $16.3 million, double the presale high estimate.
The work set an auction record for Warhol’s work on paper.  “It’s all about the quality,” said Leonard Riggio, the
founder of  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)   The contemporary segment had mixed results. A 2007 painting
by Wade Guyton, who has a solo show at the  Whitney Museum of
American Art , went for $782,500. But pieces by  Jeff Koons ,
 Andreas Gursky ,  Richard Prince  and  Ed Ruscha  failed to sell.  “The high end of the market really weathers the economic
ups and downs,” said Suzanne Gyorgy, global head of art
advisory and finance at Citi Private Bank. “The contemporary
part of the market is where we see volatility.”  Christie’s sale of postwar and contemporary art tonight is
expected to total $309.3 million to $441.2 million. Sotheby’s
charges buyers 25 percent of the hammer price up to $50,000,
plus 20 percent from $50,000 to $1 million and 12 percent above
$1 million. Pre-sale estimates don’t include the buyer’s
premium.  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on  dining ,  Joe Mysak  on
 books .  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 