-- MTS Raises Dividend, May Bid for Tele2 Unit in Russia
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-11-14T16:22:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/mts-raises-dividend-may-bid-for-tele2-unit-in-russia-1-.html
OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) , Russia’s
largest mobile operator, plans to raise future dividend payouts
by one-quarter and said it would consider the acquisition of the
local unit of  Sweden ’s  Tele2 AB (TEL2B)  to boost growth.  MTS will increase the dividend payment by 25 percent to at
least 18.3 rubles per share in the three years through 2014,
Chief Executive Officer Andrei Dubovskov told reporters today.
The shares rose 1.7 percent to 230 rubles in Moscow, the most in
more than a month.  MTS, controlled by billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov, sees
any further market consolidation in Russia as “value-
accreditive” and would be potentially interested in acquiring
the local unit of Tele2, Chief Financial Officer Alexey Kornya
said today in an interview.  Tele2 had 22.3 million subscribers in  Russia  versus MTS’s
70.7 million users at the end of September, according to  AC&M
Consulting . The Swedish company may seek to merge its Russian
assets with local operators such as state-run OAO Rostelecom
after failing to receive a fourth-generation license during July
auctions,  Kommersant  reported in August.  MTS generates about 90 percent of its sales in Russia while
attempting to overcome difficulties in ex-Soviet republics
 Uzbekistan  and  Turkmenistan . The company lost 9 million users in
Uzbekistan after a court  withdrew  its licence in July. In
Turkmenistan, MTS has only recently resumed operations after a
hiatus of almost two years.  The company reported third-quarter net income of $630
million, beating an average estimate of $507 million from eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales declined 4 percent to $3.1
billion, partly due to the closing of the Uzbekistan unit, MTS
said in a statement.  Uzbek Assets  MTS is hoping to return to the Uzbek market, though “not
at any price”, Vice President Oleg Raspopov told reporters
today. The local court  withdrew  its licence there in July citing
violations by local managers. Another Uzbek court last week
demanded a $600 million fine from MTS, overturning a decision to
confiscate the company’s assets there.  MTS wrote off $1.08 billion in impairment and tax claims on
its Uzbek assets in August after the forced shutdown. Its former
users in Uzbekistan switched to rivals  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) , based in
 Stockholm , and Russian competitor  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)   In Turkmenistan, the local government withdrew the MTS
licence in December 2010 and returned it in  July  of this year
only after the company agreed to pay 30 percent of its country
income to the state. MTS now has about  850,000 subscribers  in
Turkmenistan, a third of the 2.4 million it had in 2010.  Winning Margin  MTS has a 45.4 percent margin on operating income before
depreciation and amortization in its Russian unit, the highest
among local rivals, according to VTB Capital. Third-quarter
Oibda margins at the Russian units of VimpelCom and OAO MegaFon
were 43.2 percent and 44.7 percent respectively.  The company raised its sales growth forecast for 2012 to 7
percent, compared with a range of 5 percent to 7 percent,
Dubovskov said. It also increased its target for operating
income before depreciation and amortization to more than 42
percent from 41 percent to 42 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  