-- TSA Vendor Denies Faking Test of Body-Imaging Software
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-11-15T20:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/tsa-vendor-denies-faking-test-of-body-imaging-software.html
OSI Systems Inc. (OSIS) ’s Rapiscan unit,
one of two suppliers of body-scanning machines in U.S. airports,
may have falsified tests of software intended to stop the
machines from recording graphic images of travelers, a U.S.
lawmaker said.  The company “may have attempted to defraud the government
by knowingly manipulating an operational test,” Representative
Mike Rogers, chairman of the House Transportation Security
Subcommittee, said in a letter to Transportation Security
Administration chief John Pistole Nov. 13. Rogers said his
committee received a tip about the faked tests.  Rapiscan, in a statement today, said it couldn’t have
manipulated testing because those processes were controlled by
the government. “At no time did Rapiscan falsify test data or
any information related to this technology or the test,” Peter Kant, an executive vice president with the company, said in an
interview yesterday.  While Rogers’ letter doesn’t identify the company, his
spokesman, Shea Snider, confirmed in an e-mail that he was
referring to Rapiscan.  OSI fell $22.97, or 30 percent, to $53.32 at 3:37 p.m., the
biggest intraday decline since December 2000. More than 4.4
million shares had changed hands, about 40 times the three-month
daily average.  Underwear Bomber  The TSA accelerated the use of advanced scanners in 2010,
following the Dec. 25, 2009, attempt by Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab to blow up a Northwest Airlines flight by igniting
explosives in his underpants. It’s used two vendors: Rapiscan,
whose backscatter machines use a form of X-rays, and  L-3
Communications Holdings Inc., (LLL)  which features another imaging
technology known as millimeter-wave.  Airline passengers were offended by the revealing images,
including those of children and the elderly, and the TSA moved
its screens to separate rooms away from the checkpoints so the
scans couldn’t be seen by the public. If TSA agents spot an
image that looks like a weapon or an explosive, they communicate
by radio with screeners at the security lines about where to
search.  ‘Strip Search’  The Electronic Privacy Information Center sued the agency,
calling use of the machines the equivalent of a “physically
invasive strip search.”  Rapiscan has been trying, without success, to write
software that would display a generic image. L-3 has been able
to produce such software.  TSA has said passengers who don’t want to go through the
scanners can opt for a pat-down instead. That option has also
generated criticism from the public and members of Congress as
being excessively invasive.  The European Union banned backscatter machines in November
2011, citing health risks from low doses of radiation. TSA says
the machines expose passengers to less radiation than they
receive from the atmosphere during a flight.  If wrongdoing is proven on the government contracts,
Rapiscan could face fines, prison terms and a ban on government
contracting, said Dan Gordon, former head of federal procurement
for President  Barack Obama ’s administration.  “Fake test results are incredibly serious,” said Gordon,
now a dean at George Washington University Law School in
Washington. “Every false statement is a criminal act, sending
someone in that company to jail.”  ‘Transparency Problem’  TSA relied on a third-party vendor rather than Rapiscan to
verify the technology, so the agency may be attempting to find a
scapegoat for a poorly managed program, Rogers said at a hearing
today.  The Alabama Republican, who has oversight of TSA
operations, said the agency first indicated it was moving
Rapiscan machines to smaller airports, then couldn’t produce a
list of airports. The agency is moving 91 units worth $14
million to a warehouse instead of redeploying them, Rogers said.  The TSA has 174 backscatter machines,  David Castelveter , a
TSA spokesman, said.  “It appears we not only have a technology problem, but a
significant transparency problem on our hands,” Rogers said.  The TSA intends to keep the machines in a warehouse until
the privacy-protection software works, John Sanders, assistant
administrator for the agency’s office of security capabilities,
said at the hearing.  Show-Cause Letter  Sanders said the agency doesn’t have evidence that tests on
the backscatter machines were manipulated.  “At this point we don’t know what has occurred,” Sanders
said. “We are in contact with the vendor. We are working with
them to get to the bottom of it.”  TSA has spent about $40 million on backscatter machines to
date, Sanders said. It has spent about $100 million on 600
millimeter-wave machines.  Kant said Rapiscan received a so-called show-cause letter
from the TSA on Nov. 9 seeking detailed information about the
testing of technology used in the machines.  Rapiscan became aware of an issue related to software under
development months ago and promptly notified the TSA, Kant said.
The company is fully cooperating with the agency’s
investigation, which doesn’t relate to software that detects
anomalies on passengers’ bodies, Kant said. Passenger safety was
never affected, he said.  Show-cause letters are sent when the government believes a
contractor isn’t complying with terms, said Gordon, the former
federal procurement administrator. It’s a last chance for the
company to demonstrate it hasn’t violated the contract, he said.  Show-cause letters are rare because most contractors try
hard to meet the government’s requirements, Gordon said.
Companies that default on contracts may have a difficult time
winning business again from that agency or other parts of the
government, he said.  Machines Moved  The TSA recently said it was relocating Rapiscan machines
from seven larger, busier airports to smaller ones.  The change related to extra time it takes for passengers to
be scanned with the backscatter machines, not any doubts about
whether the technology works, Pistole told reporters at a news
conference in  Washington  Nov. 13. Backscatter machines require
staff in a separate room to look at the images and radio back to
an officer at the checkpoint if extra screening is needed, he
said.  TSA believes backscatter technology is still effective in
finding non-metallic objects, Pistole said.  “We originally went with two companies to help drive
competition and try to get to the next level of detection with
the best possible performance,” Pistole said. “We’re still
committed to doing that.”  TSA has contracted for increasing levels of detection and
other efficiency and privacy enhancements, Castelveter said in a
statement yesterday.  “We fully expect our vendors to deliver on their
commitments, and are working with them to that end within the
federal contracting process,” Castelveter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  