-- Sainsbury Sees ‘Challenging’ Year as First-Half Profit Gains
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-11-14T09:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/sainsbury-sees-challenging-year-as-first-half-profit-gains-1-.html
J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s third-
largest supermarket company, predicted that the grocery market
will remain “challenging” after saying its Brand Match
campaign helped drive a 5.4 percent gain in first-half earnings.  Inflation on food will increase in the next few months,
with shoppers buying less, topping-up more frequently and
switching to own-label items to save money, Chief Executive
Officer Justin King said on a conference call today.  “As we stand today, inflation and wage awards are playing
a bit of a draw, the direction of traveling inflation is up and
we think for the next few months that is probably the case on
food,” King said on the call. “So we’re going to see a further
reduction in household budgets.”  Poor harvests overseas and wet weather in the U.K. have led
to pressure on food prices, while rising household energy
tariffs mean Britons have less to spend on their weekly grocery
shop. U.K. consumer prices climbed 2.7 percent last month from a
year earlier, the most since May, the Office for National
Statistics in London said yesterday.  “Christmas is expected to remain highly competitive,”
said  Kate Calvert , an analyst at Seymour Pierce in London with a
hold rating on Sainsbury. “Yesterday’s rising inflation number
is a reminder that consumer spending will remain under pressure
with increased fuel prices this winter yet to come.”  Shares Drop  Sainsbury fell as much as 1.9 percent in London trading and
was down 1.6 percent to 341.8 pence at 8:56 a.m. The  stock  has
gained 14 percent this year, while larger competitor  Tesco Plc (TSCO) 
has fallen 20 percent.  Underlying pretax profit rose to 373 million pounds ($592
million) in the six months ended Sept. 29, the London-based
retailer said today. That compared with the 371.3 million-pound
median  estimate  of six analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Sainsbury said it has printed 250 million Brand Match
vouchers since the start of the price campaign in October last
year. Customers received a notice telling them Sainsbury’s was
cheaper than competitors more than half the time.  Brand Match ensures shoppers don’t pay more for branded
goods than at competitors by checking more than 14,000 goods at
the point of sale. Customers get a coupon if rivals are cheaper,
according to the company. The campaign helped boost Sainsbury’s
share of U.K. grocery spending to 16.8 percent in the 12 weeks
ended Oct. 28, according to researcher  Kantar Worldpanel .  Dividend Increase  The retailer is re-launching its ‘by Sainsbury’s’ range and
adding as many as two convenience stores a week to boost growth.  “Sainsbury’s continues to successfully steer
between delivering good quality food and promoting compelling
value for money messages,” said Neil Saunders, managing
director of Conlumino market research in London.  The retailer increased the interim  dividend  by 6.7 percent
to 4.8 pence, slightly ahead of forecasts.  Sainsbury, which sponsored this summer’s London Paralympic
Games, last month reported a 1.9 percent gain in second-quarter
sales at stores open at least a year, excluding gasoline. That
extended an unbroken growth record stretching back to 2005.  First-half revenue excluding value-added tax rose 4 percent
to 12.2 billion pounds, meeting analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  