-- Serbia Is Selling $750 Million of Bonds for Budget Spendi
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i ,   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-11-14T20:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/serbia-is-selling-750-million-of-bonds-for-budget-spendi.html
Serbia  sold $750 million of bonds in
its second overseas bond offering this year to cover  government
spending  for 2013 as the Balkan nation seeks to lock in
relatively low yields.  The country sold the five-year notes to yield 5.45 percent,
with a 5.25 percent coupon, while demand was $3.7 billion,
 Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement. The level of
demand helped the ministry improve the sale conditions, cut the
 interest rate  and increase the size of the sale to $750 million
from $500 million, the statement said.  “The government of Serbia has thus secured in advance
financing of the state in the first half of next year,” the
ministry said. The interest rate, at 2 percentage points lower
than what the previous government achieved in a September 2011
Eurobond sale, is a “clear sign that the international market
seriously takes the program of fiscal consolidation of the new
government” and its budget plan for 2013 that aims to halve the
deficit to 3.6 percent of gross domestic product, the ministry
said.  Serbia, rated BB- at  Standard & Poor’s , three levels below
investment grade, plans to sell $2 billion of debt this year and
in 2013 as it seeks to re-capitalize the banking industry and
pull itself out of recession. Serbian officials are in talks
with the  International Monetary Fund  about a possible new loan
next year.  Sale Timing  “The timing for bond sale is excellent because there is
this window of opportunity with relatively low yields for non-
investment grade issuers,” Hrvoje Stojic, chief analyst at Hypo
Alpe Adria Bank d.d. in Zagreb,  Croatia , said in a phone
interview. “The pricing is also good for a non-investment grade
country and Serbia needs financing because of fiscal
overspending.”  The  average yield  on Serbian sovereign debt has fallen 144
basis points, or 1.44 percentage point, to 6.12 percent in 2012,
according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. index.  The government of Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic  wants to slow
public-sector wage growth and pensions and raise taxes as it
strives to cut the budget gap from 7.1 percent to 6.7 percent of
gross domestic product by year end. These efforts may be
hampered by surging inflation, which accelerated to an annual
12.9 percent in October, and an economy that is forecast by the
 World Bank  to shrink 1.5 percent this year.  Serbia last tapped international investors in September by
reopening a 2011  bond issue , selling $1 billion of debt at a
yield of 6.625 percent.  An IMF deal “should be supportive of Serbian credit,”
Abbas Ameli-Renani, a London emerging-market analyst at  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc , wrote in a Nov. 8 note to clients.
“Over the medium-term we remain cautious of Serbian credit,
with exceptionally high financing needs in 2013 and a
persistently high current account deficit expected to remain as
sources of underperformance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  