-- Serum of India's Meningitis Drug Cleared for Warm Storage
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2012-11-14T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/serum-of-india-s-meningitis-drug-cleared-for-warm-storage.html
A meningitis vaccine developed by
billionaire Cyrus Poonawalla’s Serum Institute of  India  Ltd.
remains effective at high temperatures, allowing it to be used
in locations that lack refrigeration, researchers said.  The  MenAfriVac  vaccine can be stored for as long as four
days at as much as 40 degrees Celsius (104 degrees Fahrenheit),
Godwin Enwere, an official of one of the study’s sponsors, said
today at the American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene’s
annual meeting in Atlanta. Until now, the drug was required to
be kept at 2 degrees to 8 degrees C before use.  The revised guidelines for the Serum injection may reduce
costs by eliminating the need for refrigerated transport,
Enwere, medical director of the World Health Organization’s
Meningitis Vaccine Project partnership, said in an interview.
That would give more people access to the vaccine, particularly
those in remote areas of  Africa , he said.  Since 1988, more than 1 million people in Africa have been
infected by the disease, which causes mental retardation and
permanent deafness and can be fatal within hours if untreated,
according to the Geneva-based  WHO . MenAfriVac has been on the
market since 2010 as a preventive measure against meningococcal
A, the main cause of bacterial meningitis in Africa and Asia.
Indian and Canadian regulators have cleared the drug for higher-
temperature storage, Enwere said.  The approval “opens a huge avenue for the use of the
vaccine in very harsh conditions,” Enwere said. “It
potentially encourages the review of other vaccines to be kept
at room temperature.”  A team of researchers from the WHO, Seattle-based  Program
for Appropriate Technologies in Health , Serum and  Canada ’s
health department reviewed data on the stability of the vaccine
without refrigeration. The study of 600 vials of MenAfriVac
found the drug can remain effective for as long as two weeks
when stored at 25 degrees C, Enwere said.  Later this month, Benin will become the 10th country to
introduce the vaccine, which costs 50 cents a dose and was
developed with funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.
An estimated 100 million people in African countries including
Burkina Faso, Cameroon,  Ghana  and  Mali , will receive the drug by
the end of this year, according to the Meningitis Vaccine
Project statement.  “Today’s announcement marks a new milestone,”  Orin
Levine , director of vaccine delivery at the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation, said in a statement. “It allows us to extend the
delivery of the MenAfriVac vaccine from the traditional cold
chain and reach more people across Africa.”  Poonawalla, who founded Serum in 1966, had $3.3 billion in
assets, making him India’s 17th richest person, Forbes magazine
said in October. Closely held Serum owns 27.8 percent of New
Delhi-based  Panacea Biotec Ltd. (PNCB) , the world’s biggest maker of
polio vaccines, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Atlanta via 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  