-- Shell Expects to Invest More Than $20 Billion in Gas by 2015
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-11-14T15:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/shell-expects-to-invest-more-than-20-billion-in-gas-by-2015.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s
largest oil company, has earmarked more than $20 billion to
spend on natural-gas projects through 2015 as profit from
extracting, processing and selling the fuel soars.  “Our integrated-gas earnings have more than trebled in the
last five years, reaching $9 billion over the last year,” Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Voser  said today. “We see growth
opportunities to invest over $20 billion here for 2012-15.”  Shell and its peers have expanded global gas operations as
demand for the fuel rises in  Asia . Revenue from the liquefied
natural gas business, pushed higher by increased shipments
following Japan’s Fukushima atomic crisis last year, drove a 2.3
percent gain in third-quarter profit at The Hague-based Shell.  The company expects LNG output to increase 30 percent to
about 29 million metric tons a year once it completes projects
in  Australia , Shell said today in a statement. It also plans to
power trucks and ships with the liquefied fuel and is assessing
ventures that would use as much as 5 million tons a year.  Shell, which has announced $6 billion in acquisitions this
year, has forecast cash flow from operations will rise 50
percent through 2015, driven by new projects in  Qatar , where it
runs a gas-to-liquids plant, and  Canada .  “Shell is continuing to generate substantial cash flows,”
said Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec Securities Ltd. in
 London . “We expect Shell to pursue a more active acquisitions
strategy.”  East Africa  Shell said yesterday it’s in talks with Anadarko Petroleum
Corp., Eni SpA and others to join gas projects off  Mozambique ,
after this year losing a bidding war with Thailand’s PTT
Exploration & Production Pcl for Anadarko’s partner Cove Energy
Plc. The nation may become the third-largest LNG producer, after
Australia and Qatar, in as few as 10 years, Anadarko has said.  “We are taking our time, because we are also quite busy
elsewhere in the world,” Maarten Wetselaar, executive vice
president of  Shell Upstream International , said yesterday in an
interview. “We’re not short of opportunities, but it’s
certainly something we would like to be involved in.”  Mozambique may hold as much as 250 trillion cubic feet of
gas, national oil company Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos
estimated last month after energy explorers made the decade’s
biggest discoveries in its waters.  LNG Expansion  Shell, the largest LNG supplier, has also been examining
plans to add more than 20 million tons of annual LNG capacity in
Australia,  Indonesia  and  North America  as it predicts a fourfold
increase in demand to 400 million tons a year by 2020 from 2000.  As part of its $50 billion Australian LNG investment plan,
the company has been working on a floating production vessel
that will liquefy the fuel off Australia’s northwest coast to
potentially supply the Asia Pacific region.  Shell also uses gas to produce other liquid fuels. It
operates the world’s largest gas-to-liquids plant in Qatar,
making diesel and other products. It’s studying plans to build a
similar plant in Texas or Louisiana, taking advantage of a
decline in North American gas prices. Other possible projects on
the continent include the production of commercial
petrochemicals from ethane and the use of LNG as vehicle fuel.  Shell in June agreed with TravelCenters of America LLC to
sell LNG to heavy-duty trucks. Last year, it started work on the
Green Corridor project with Flying J Inc. to offer LNG to trucks
along the 900-mile (1,600-kilometer) Canadian highway that runs
from  Alberta  to the Pacific coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  