-- SingTel Revamps Optus in Australia on Telstra Comptition
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-11-15T09:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/singtel-to-revamp-optus-unit-in-australia-on-telstra-competition.html
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST)  is
revamping its Australian unit, where a drop in revenue and
customer spending prompted Southeast  Asia ’s biggest phone
operator to forecast its first annual sales drop in 13 years.  SingTel, as the phone company is also known, reduced the
workforce at Optus in  Australia  by about 10 percent and is
changing how it sells to consumers, Chief Executive Officer Chua Sock Koong, 55, said in an interview yesterday. Customers will
see more Optus-branded distribution channels, she said.  Optus, competing with  Telstra Corp. (TLS) , is cutting licensing
to other retailers and adding its own stores to compete with its
rival, which has rolled out faster mobile-phone networks to
expand market share. Yesterday, SingTel said full-year sales
will fall by a “low single-digit” rate compared with an
earlier forecast for an increase, citing competition and lower
revenue in Australia.  “They’re looking at various cost-efficiencies and ways to
drive revenues further in Australia,” said  Sachin Gupta ,
Singapore-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. “They’re
competing against a very well entrenched incumbent. So it will
be a gradual turnaround.”  The  carrier declined  1.3 percent to S$3.12 in Singapore
trading today, after dropping 0.9 percent yesterday. The shares
have gained 1 percent this year, lagging behind the 11-percent
advance for the benchmark  Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)   Fewer Brands  SingTel’s Australian unit wants to consolidate more retail
sales under its own brand. That’s a change from its previous
strategy that allowed companies such as  Boost Tel Pty.  to access
its network and sell services and devices under their own name
rather than Optus.  Optus will end the license of Boost from January, according
to an Oct. 30  statement . A distribution agreement with
 TeleChoice , SingTel’s biggest third-party retailer in Australia
with more than 150 outlets, will end in March so the company can
focus on its own network by adding 33 stores, it said.  “There’s been a series of initiatives,” Chua said.
“We’ve continued investment in customer-fronting staff.”  Chua spoke after  the company  reported second-quarter  profit 
that missed analyst estimates as competition with Telstra and a
the third-ranked Australian venture of  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  crimped growth at Optus, SingTel’s
biggest unit by sales.  Telstra Expansion  Melbourne-based Telstra has boosted its  customer service ,
rolled out a fourth-generation network in Australia’s biggest
cities and trained workers to provide more expert advice in
stores to retain customers for multiple services such as phones,
Internet and wireless devices.  “Optus continues to lose revenue share to Telstra, an area
we believe needs to be addressed,” Navin Killa, an analyst at
Morgan Stanley, said in a report to clients yesterday.  Optus started fourth-generation services in Sydney and
Melbourne in September, about a year after Telstra began its 4G
services using the Long Term Evolution, or LTE, standard.
Telstra has 820,000 devices connected to its 4G network,
analysts at Morgan Stanley said in an Oct. 31 report.  Optus Consumer Australia Chief Executive Officer  Kevin Russell  declined to comment on 4G subscriber numbers on a
conference call yesterday.  Lower Spending  Second-quarter Ebitda at Optus, Australia’s No. 2 phone
company, was “stable” at A$560 million ($585 million) while
revenue dropped 4 percent as customers spent less. Average
revenue per user on postpaid mobiles fell 12 percent while
spending on prepaid phones dropped 2 percent, the company said.  “We’ve also been restructuring the business,” Chua said.
“Over the years, we’ve probably taken the workforce down about
10 percent but we’ve continued investment in customer-fronting
staff.”  SingTel’s annual revenue last had a year-on-year  decline  in
the 12 months ended March 2000, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, which is  before  it bought Optus. Annual sales have
 beaten analyst  estimates in each of the past five years.  The company owns all of its Singapore and Australian phone
businesses in addition to minority stakes in six other mobile
operators with 468 million customers in more than 20 countries
in Asia and  Africa . The company’s stake in Warid, a Pakistani
phone operator, has been termed as “asset for sale” since July,
the company said yesterday.  SingTel is “working through” with its Indian affiliate
 Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  to introduce the Amobee advertising platform,
Chua said. The company had earlier introduced it to PT
Telekomunikasi Selular in  Indonesia  and  Globe Telecom Inc. (GLO)  in
the  Philippines , Chua said.  New Revenue  Chua, who joined the company in June 1989 as a treasurer
and became chief financial officer in April 1999, was appointed
group CEO on April 1, 2007, according to the company’s  website .
She holds a bachelor of accountancy degree from the University
of Singapore.  As the CFO, Chua helped manage the company’s international
expansion into Australia and  India  under then CEO Lee Hsien Yang.
Chua was paid S$4.9 million last year, 9 percent more than a
year earlier, according to the company’s annual report.  “We are very focused on growing new revenue streams,”
Chua said. “The focus on acquisitions has slowed down for most
telcos and it’s really more focusing on your phone operations
and making sure you’ve managed those operations well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in  Singapore  at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  