-- Singapore Amends Death Penalty Law to Exempt Some Offences
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-11-14T10:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/singapore-amends-death-penalty-law-to-exempt-some-offences-1-.html
Singapore , which imposes the death
penalty for crimes including murder and drug trafficking,
amended its law today to exempt some cases from the mandatory
sentence while boosting enforcement.  The nation will uphold the  death penalty  for those who
manufacture and traffic drugs, though the punishment will no
longer be mandatory for all those caught carrying drugs
exceeding certain amounts, Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean
said today. The government will also introduce new tests, such
as hair analysis, to detect drug abuse more effectively.  “For drugs, the war is ongoing,” Teo said in Parliament.
“We want to give our drug enforcement the tools they need to
keep us safe. These amendments will make our regime tougher and
enhance the effectiveness of the death penalty regime.”  Singapore has one of the lowest crime rates in the world,
according to the  United Nations Office on Drugs and Crimes .
Still, the city state has been criticized by human rights
organizations such as  Amnesty International  for maintaining the
death penalty even as more than two-thirds of countries
worldwide have abolished it in law or in practice.  Singapore’s amendments are also aimed at drug traffickers
targeting minors, the government said.  The government today also amended the penal code and
exempted non-intentional murder from the death penalty.  “In July, I had said that the changes will ensure that our
sentencing framework will better balance the various objectives,
which is justice to the victim, justice to society and justice
to the accused, and mercy in appropriate situations to the
accused, as well,” Law Minister K. Shanmugam said in parliament.
“We hope that we are on the right path to try to achieve that.”  Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code requiring the
court of appeal to approve a death penalty sentence “will
provide another safeguard in our capital punishment regime,”
said Shanmugam.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  