-- Singapore Curbs to Slash Home Sales in 2013: Southeast Asia
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-11-15T09:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/singapore-curbs-to-slash-home-sales-in-2013-southeast-asia.html
Singapore  home sales may fall as
much as 27 percent in 2013 after climbing to a record this year
as six rounds of housing curbs by the government crimps demand,
according to Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  Private home sales next year may drop to 16,000 units from
22,000 units this year, said David Neubronner, the head of the
property brokerage’s Singapore residential business. The island
state introduced measures including higher down-payments for
second home purchases and new taxes for foreign buyers since the
start of 2010, he said.  “Like a boxer who gets punched too many times, every
measure will chip away at the market,” Neubronner said in an
interview yesterday. “This has been a stellar year, an
exceptional year. I don’t think after six rounds of measures,
the market can escape.”  Singapore  home prices  climbed to a record in the third
quarter, prompting Finance Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam  to
say last month that the real estate market may get “bubbly.”
The government won’t allow home prices to outstrip gains in
incomes, he said.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore or the central bank
told banks on Oct. 5 to restrict home-loan maturities “to curb
continued upward pressure on residential property prices,” in
its latest attempt to avert a housing bubble. The government
said in September it plans to cap the number of homes that can
be developed in suburban projects as it seeks to curb the
increasing trend of so-called shoebox apartments.  More Curbs  In December last year, the government imposed an additional
stamp duty on foreigners and corporations buying property, and
additional levies on permanent residents buying a second home
and citizens purchasing a third residential property.  City Developments Ltd. (CIT) , Singapore’s second-biggest
developer controlled by billionaire Kwek Leng Beng, said
yesterday it “hopes” the government will lift the housing
curbs.  “While the outlook for the  property market  in the medium
to long-term is still positive, the group is cognizant that
between 2014 and 2015, there could be some oversupply with more
residential units being completed,” the company said in its
earnings statement. “However, this fear will be unwarranted if
the world economy turns around by that time.”  The Singapore economy is forecast by the government to
expand 1.5 percent to 2.5 percent in 2012, from 4.9 percent in
2011. The economy “slowed discernibly” in the past two
quarters and will grow at below-potential levels for a second
year in 2013, the Monetary Authority said Oct. 30.  Sales Drop  Private home sales fell 26 percent in October from the
previous month, when sales jumped to the highest in more than
three years, according to data released by the  Urban
Redevelopment Authority  today.  Singapore’s property  index , tracking 40 property-related
companies, fell 1.5 percent, the most since July 9.  Still, home prices will remain little changed next year,
Neubronner said. The luxury home market will be affected by
Europe’s debt crisis, he said. Prices in the so-called mass
market, usually located in the suburbs, have reached a certain
affordability level, he said.  The island-state’s private residential property price  index 
rose 0.6 percent to a record 208.2 points in the three months
ended Sept. 30, according to government data. In prime districts,
apartment prices gained 0.2 percent, compared with the 1 percent
increase in the suburbs.  ‘Saturation Point’  “Luxury home prices are near their bottom, still prices
won’t go up yet as  Europe  isn’t doing well,” Neubronner said.
“The gap is closing between the mid-market and luxury so the
smart money will go back to luxury next year. The mass market
segment has edged above the affordability level so it won’t go
up more.”  Home sales reached 17,900 units in the first nine months
this year, according to government data. Neubronner estimates
about 20 percent were so-called “shoe-box” units, or homes
smaller than 50 square meters (538 square feet) in size. There
is demand for homes selling at lower than S$1.5 million ($1.2
million), he said.  Knight Frank Pte, a property consulting company, also
estimates home sales will fall to between 16,000 and 18,000 next
year.  “I don’t think crossing 20,000 units a year is
sustainable,” Png Poh Soon, director of valuation and head of
consultancy and research at  Knight Frank  in Singapore, said in
an interview yesterday. “Going forward, there is going to be a
tapering of demand, a saturation point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  