-- Snoozing FAA Controllers Triggers Edict Adding to Tower Staff
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-11-14T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/snoozing-faa-controllers-triggers-edict-adding-to-tower-staff.html
Weeks after the lone overnight air-
traffic controller at  Washington ’s Reagan National Airport
admitted falling asleep in 2011 as two jetliners approached,
five similar incidents emerged.  That prompted Senator Jay Rockefeller to say he called the
Federal Aviation Administration’s chief to tell him he was
“sick of this,” and triggered Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood’s April 2011 order banning controllers from working alone
in the wee hours.  LaHood’s action, intended to stanch what was becoming an
embarrassment for his department, added people and costs that
the FAA concluded weren’t needed. Twenty-three of the 27
facilities that got a second overnight controller under LaHood’s
order didn’t have enough air traffic to justify being open at
all in late hours, according to a 2011 agency study.  “Clearly those 23 facilities should have been shut down at
night,” said Robert Poole, director of transportation studies
at the Los Angeles-based Reason Foundation, which advocates
libertarian policies.  LaHood’s decision illustrates how difficult it is for the
FAA, which reports to him, to reduce staffing or hours at its
facilities in response to declining air traffic, according to
aviation experts.  At the time of his decision, LaHood said he was acting to
ensure safety. “I am totally outraged by these incidents,” he
said in a release the day of the decision. “This is absolutely
unacceptable.”  Sasha Johnson, a LaHood spokeswoman, referred questions on
controller issues to the FAA.  Traffic Decline  Air traffic fell 17 percent from 2000 to 2010 in the U.S.
with steeper drops at hubs abandoned by airlines or some smaller
airports with private-plane traffic, according to FAA data
compiled by Bloomberg.  More than 100 U.S. airport towers and radar rooms have so
few flights that they should be shut down late at night under
the FAA’s guidelines, a move that would save taxpayers $10
million a year. Members of Congress from both parties, sometimes
acting at the request of the National Air Traffic Controllers
Association union, have  blocked attempts  to cut tower hours or
merge radar rooms, according to interviews and documents.  One of the towers the FAA wanted to close at night, until
relenting under pressure from Michigan lawmakers led by
Democratic Senator Carl Levin, was at Willow Run Airport near
 Detroit .  Willow Run  Willow Run was opened by Henry Ford in 1942 to construct
B-24 Liberator bombers with the help of Charles Lindbergh, and
hasn’t served as Detroit’s primary airport since the 1950s. It
was one of the airports that got a second overnight controller
under LaHood’s order, even though it averages one takeoff or
landing an hour between 1 a.m. and 5 a.m., according to FAA
data.  More than one-third of FAA-staffed airport towers and
regional radar rooms -- 102 out of 294 -- averaged fewer than
four landings or takeoffs an hour late at night, according to
the FAA study of traffic patterns from July 1, 2010 through June
30, 2011. Bloomberg News obtained hundreds of pages of FAA
documents through the Freedom of Information Act.  The agency’s own guidance says that if flights remain at
that level for at least five straight hours, a tower or radar
room can be closed during the slow period. The 2008 FAA  order 
setting guidelines allows the agency to make exceptions if there
is commercial traffic, military flights or another reason
requiring controllers.  Shutting Facilities  Shutting a control facility with that few flights won’t
undercut safety, according to the agency’s order.  The agency took some steps to limit costs to the taxpayer
of adding a second controller by insisting, at least in one
case, that the airport pay for it.  DuPage Airport in West Chicago,  Illinois , which caters to
corporate flights, pays the FAA for air-traffic coverage from 10
p.m. to 6 a.m., said David Bird, executive director of DuPage
Airport Authority. The airport’s annual bill rose to $448,000
from $246,000 following the order to bring in a second
controller, he said.  The FAA also shaved costs at an unspecified number of
airports by moving a controller responsible for monitoring
radars into a tower overnight, thereby having two persons on
duty together without having to add to staffing, according to an
e-mailed statement by the agency.  The FAA won’t say whether it considered closing some or all
of the low-activity airports at night, Brie Sachse, an agency
spokeswoman, said in an interview.  No Assistance  Under FAA rules, pilots can land without a tower if they
coordinate with other planes on the radio. It’s not unusual for
all kind of planes, even commercial flights, to land without
controller assistance. At least 50 U.S. airports without a tower
reported 2,000 or more airline flights in 2010, according to FAA
data.  “The fact is that at very low-traffic airports, it is
perfectly safe for aircraft to operate without air-traffic
control,” Bill Voss, a former FAA air-traffic manager, said in
an interview.  The wave of sleeping-controller incidents that led to
LaHood’s order began March 23, 2011.  A supervisor on duty by himself at Washington’s airport
tower told investigators he fell asleep a few minutes after
midnight during his fourth overnight shift in a row, according
to a National Transportation Safety Board report on the
incident.  Second Case  Two jets, aircraft operated by  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American
Airlines and  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ’s United Airlines,
landed at the airport before the supervisor woke up 24 minutes
later.  On April 6, 2011, then-FAA Administrator Randy Babbitt told
a congressional committee the agency had discovered a second
case. This time, a controller working alone in a radar room at
McGhee Tyson Airport in Knoxville,  Tennessee , fell asleep
deliberately, the agency said in an e-mail statement.  A medical flight had to land without air-traffic assistance
on April 11, 2011, at Reno-Tahoe International Airport in  Nevada 
after a lone controller didn’t respond to radio calls, according
to the agency.  “We can’t have an aviation system where some of the people
responsible for safety are literally asleep at the switch,”
Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat who heads the Senate
Commerce, Science and Transportation committee, said in a
statement April 13.  The number of incidents in which controllers were suspected
of sleeping or being unresponsive in air-traffic facilities
eventually rose to nine.  While controller fatigue is a safety concern, the incidents
and the reaction to them gave an erroneous impression that the
air-traffic system was in crisis, said Voss, who now serves as
president of the Alexandria, Virginia-based Flight Safety
Foundation. That prompted overreactions, Voss said.  “The story became so overblown, the risk was so overblown,
that it would seem incomprehensible to talk about reducing the
hours at some of these facilities,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  