-- Snyder’s Said in Talks to Sell Vista for as Much as $350 Million
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2012-11-14T21:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/snyder-s-said-in-talks-to-sell-vista-for-as-much-as-350-million.html
Snyder’s-Lance Inc. (LNCE) , the maker of
Cape Cod potato chips, is in talks to sell Vista, its private-
label cookies and crackers business, three people with knowledge
of the matter said.  The sale of the unit, which may fetch as much as $350
million, could be final by the end of the year, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the process is private.
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Snyder’s has hired  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  to manage the sale and has attracted interest from
 ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG) ,  TreeHouse Foods Inc. (THS)  and  Ralcorp Holdings
Inc. (RAH) , two of the people said.  Snyder’s is selling the private-label foods business as it
focuses more on building its branded snacks business, one of the
people said. The company has been  acquiring  brand-name
businesses and could use proceeds from a sale to buy additional
brands or invest in its existing snack lines, this person said.  Vista has annual earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of around $40 million, said one of
these people. Snyder’s is in the second round of the sales
process, this person added.  Andrea Bartman, a spokeswoman for Snyder’s, couldn’t
immediately comment. Teresa Paulsen, a spokeswoman for ConAgra,
declined to comment. P.I. Aquino, a spokeswoman for TreeHouse,
and Matt Pudlowski, a spokesman for Ralcorp, didn’t return calls
seeking comment.  Pretzels, Chips  Snyder’s third-quarter net income more than doubled to
$17.8 million, while sales fell 3.6 percent to $406.6 million,
the company said Nov. 7. Chief Executive Officer David Singer
said at the time that core brands such as Snyder’s of Hanover
Pretzels and Cape Cod chips drove growth and branded sales
continue to be a priority this year. The company doesn’t break
out private-label sales.  Last month, Snyder’s acquired Snack Factory, which makes
Pretzel Crisps brand snacks, for $340 million.  For its part, Omaha, Nebraska-based ConAgra has been
acquiring both branded food companies and adding to its private-
label business. St. Louis-based Ralcorp and Oak Brook, Illinois-
based TreeHouse are primarily private-label food producers.  Snyder’s-Lance was formed in 2010 with the merger of
Snyder’s of Hanover Inc. and Lance Inc. to improve distribution
of the companies’ snacks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in  New York  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  