-- Solazyme to Expand Renewable-Oil Production With Bunge, ADM
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-11-14T21:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/solazyme-to-expand-renewable-oil-production-with-bunge-adm.html
Solazyme Inc. (SZYM) , which makes oil
products from sugar-consuming algae, will expand production
capacity through partnerships with  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  and Archer-
Daniels-Midland Co.  The company plans to open a plant in 2014 at an ADM
facility in  Iowa . It will also triple the planned output from an
existing venture with Bunge, according to a statement today from
South San Francisco, California-based Solazyme.  The ADM plant will produce 20,000 metric tons of oil in
2014, and may eventually expand to 100,000 tons a year. Bunge
and Solazyme are building a plant in  Brazil  that will be able to
make 100,000 tons a year starting in the fourth quarter of 2013,
and Bunge will use the same technology to generate a total of as
much as 300,000 tons a year at multiple facilities by 2016.  “We continue to execute on our commercialization strategy,
highlighted by on-target progress with our capacity build-outs,
the execution of a JV expansion framework agreement with Bunge,
and our new strategic relationship with ADM,” Solazyme Chief
Executive Officer Jonathan Wolfson said in the statement.  Solazyme reported a third-quarter loss of 22.5 million, or
37 cents a share, compared with a loss of $14.1 million, or 24
cents, a year earlier. Analysts were expecting a loss of 39
cents, the average of seven estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The production agreements are too far out to make a
significant difference in the near term, Mike Ritzenthaler, an
analyst with Piper Jaffray Cos. in  Minneapolis , said in an e-
mail today.  “The only thing that matters is selling product, and they
have no offtake agreements,” he said. ‘Having capacity built
before there is demand for the product only serves to squeeze
the margins as it gives their customers the upper hand in
contract negotiations. If anything, these additional upstream
agreements put them in an even more precarious situation.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  