-- Korea’s Carbon-Trading Systems Set for Testing Next Year
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-11-14T21:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/south-korea-s-carbon-trading-systems-set-for-testing-next-year.html
South  Korea , the fastest-growing
greenhouse-gas emitter among richer nations, plans to begin
trials next year of its cap-and-trade system and will select
an exchange in the first half, a top climate official said.  The country, which announced regulatory procedures this
week for trading to start in 2015, is following the European
Union’s model for  emissions trading , Nam Kwang Hee, director
general of the  Presidential Committee  on Green Growth, said in a
phone interview. Still, South Korea will concentrate on domestic
trading in the first phase and wait until 2018 before
considering links with  Europe  and other countries, he said.  “We will focus on settling the new system at home in the
initial phase of operations,” Nam said. “It would be after the
initial stage of operations that we would begin discussions over
a linkage to other country trading systems.”  South Korea , which pledged to reduce greenhouse-gas
emissions by 30 percent from forecast levels in 2020, is
starting with fewer global carbon connections than peers such as
 Australia . It won’t allow so-called offsets, awarded for
spending on climate projects overseas, until after 2020.  “South Korea is keeping the door open to linking to other
trading programs around the world,” said Milo Sjardin, the
Singapore-based head of Asia-Pacific analysis at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. “This can include the EU, Australia, California
or others. We can envisage a situation in which the EU,
Australia and Korea are linked in one trading program.”  Australia said it will allow its emitters from the onset of
cap and trade system in 2015 to import a mix of UN offsets and
EU allowances for as much as 50 percent of their compliance.  Carbon Exchanges  The government is considering the  Korea Exchange  or the
Korea Power Exchange as emission-trading platforms, Nam said.
The selection will be made in the first half of 2013 unless the
government creates a new exchange for carbon, he said.  Korea is trying to encourage its power makers and
industrial companies to switch to lower-carbon technologies and
get consumers to use less electricity, he said.  The government will give emitters all their allowances for
free from 2015 until 2017, rejecting requests for giveaways
through 2020. The nation announced guidelines on Nov. 13 for
awarding as much as 97 percent of firms’ emission allowances for
free between 2018 and 2020.  Steelmakers, cement makers and other emitters accounting
for 70 percent of South Korea’s total greenhouse gas emissions
would get 97 percent of their emission allowances free,
according to Nam’s preliminary estimates.  ‘Changed Reality’  The carbon caps set for 2020 may need to be adjusted
because economic growth is slower and demand for power is higher
than projected in 2007, Nam said. “There’s a risk of allocating
overestimated allowances, as economic situations changed a
lot,” Nam said. “Around 2014, we may need to review reduction
targets comprehensively to reflect changed reality.”  South Korea’s economy expanded 1.6 percent from a year
earlier in the third quarter, the slowest pace since 2009. The
 Bank of Korea  projected a 3.2 percent growth for next year in
its latest forecast on Oct. 11, lowering it from 3.8 percent
projected in July and 4.2 percent in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  