-- Soybeans Gain on Signs of Demand for U.S. Crop After Price Slide
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-14T13:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/soybeans-climb-as-u-s-shipments-increase-corn-wheat-advance.html
Soybeans rose for a second day in
 Chicago  on signs of demand for U.S. supplies after prices fell
for two weeks and as dry weather in  Brazil  and excessive rains
in  Argentina  may hurt crops in the world’s main growing region.  Soybeans  inspected  at U.S. ports for export increased 6.8
percent in the week ended Nov. 8 from the prior period to 64.1
million bushels, the country’s Department of Agriculture
reported yesterday. Crushing by oilseed processors probably
climbed in October from a year earlier, analysts estimate.  “The recent selloff in prices started to attract some
buying interest, especially in soybeans,” Arnaud Saulais, a
broker at Starsupply Commodity Brokers in Nyon, Switzerland,
wrote in an e-mailed comment today.  Soybeans for January delivery gained 0.8 percent to
$14.1875 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade by 1:24 p.m.
London time. Prices yesterday touched $13.9125, the lowest level
since June, after rising to a record $17.89 in September.  “The strong drop in soybean prices seems to be waking up
the buyers and particularly the importers, who can benefit from
the violent price corrections to proceed with buying operations
at prices well below those in recent months,” Paris-based farm
adviser Agritel wrote in a comment.  Crushing by companies in the National Oilseed Processors
Association probably rose 3.6 percent from a year earlier to 146
million bushels in October, according to the average estimate of
eight analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The group releases its
report in  Washington  today.  South America  Demand “is still supportive, at least over the next few
months,” Victor Thianpiriya, an agricultural analyst at
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , said from Singapore
today. The harvest in South America will also set the price
direction, he said.  In Argentina, the third-largest grower and exporter, about
11 percent of the soybean crop was sown as of Nov. 8 after rain
made the land too wet for farm machinery, researcher Oil World
said yesterday. That was behind last year’s pace of 25 percent.  In Brazil, predicted by the USDA to be the largest grower
this marketing year, recent rain was insufficient to help crops
in the states of Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Goias, Minas
Gerais and Bahia, said Oil World. Some areas of Mato Grosso had
no “noticeable rainfall” in two to four weeks, it said.  Corn for March delivery fell 0.1 percent to $7.2525 a
bushel and wheat for delivery in the same month added 0.2
percent to $8.675 a bushel. Milling wheat for January delivery
traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris gained 0.6 percent to 269.50 euros
($343) a metric ton.  Thirty-six percent of U.S. winter wheat was  rated  as good
or excellent as of Nov. 11, down from 39 percent a week earlier,
the USDA said yesterday. At the same time last year, 50 percent
of the grain got the top ratings.  “In wheat, the operators remain very vigilant with regards
to the 2013 harvest, taking into account the new deterioration
of the wheat crop conditions,” Agritel wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  