-- SSE Profit Rises as Retail Business Counters Generation Drop
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-11-14T07:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/sse-profit-rises-as-retail-business-counters-generation-drop.html
SSE Plc (SSE) , the U.K.’s second-biggest
energy supplier, said first-half profit climbed 38 percent as
higher customer gas and power demand countered a decline in
sales from electricity generation.  Adjusted pre-tax profit rose to 397.5 million pounds ($631
million) in the six months to Sept. 30 from 287.4 million pounds
a year earlier, the Perth, Scotland-based company said today in
a statement. That missed the 410.6 million-pound median estimate
of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  SSE also benefited from regulated rates for power and gas
distribution, even as rising wholesale  gas prices  eroded revenue
from electricity generation. The company raised household gas
and power prices in August, while  Centrica Plc (CNA) ’s British Gas and
RWE Npower Plc announced an increase in charges in October.  “Energy market conditions remain challenging,” Chairman
 Robert Smith  said in the statement.  “The prices achieved for
generating electricity have been weak, and higher gas and non-
energy costs unfortunately had to be reflected in the increase
in household energy prices.”  Operating profit for the utility’s wholesale business
dropped 45 percent to 123.2 million pounds, while operating
profit for its retail business was 75.7 million pounds compared
to a loss of 101.4 million pounds a year ago.  SSE plans an interim dividend of 25.2 pence a share,
compared with 24 pence in the previous year. The utility has
paid shareholders an above-inflation dividend every year for the
past 12 and is committed to paying out at least 2 percent more
than inflation this fiscal year. The company expects the full-
year dividend to be around 84 pence.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  