-- Stanford Accountants Helped Hide Ponzi Scheme, U.S. Argues
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-11-14T23:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/stanford-accountants-actively-hid-ponzi-scheme-u-s-tells-jury.html
Two former accounting executives at
Stanford Financial Group Co. should be convicted of helping
Texas financier R.  Allen Stanford  conceal the theft of billions
of dollars from investors at his offshore bank, U.S. prosecutors
told a Houston jury.  The government asked jurors to reject claims by ex-Chief
Accounting Officer Gilbert Lopez, 70, and former Global
Controller  Mark Kuhrt , 40, that they were duped by Stanford and
his finance chief into creating false financial statements,
which investors relied on to buy $7 billion of fraudulent
certificates of deposit from Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank Ltd.  “Gil Lopez and Mark Kuhrt were faced with the same choice
over and over again, to either help Allen Stanford lie to his
customers and misuse their money or say ‘I don’t want to be part
of it,’” prosecutor  Jeffrey Goldberg  said during closing
arguments today. The men chose to “keep it secret and actively
work to keep others from finding out about it.”  Lopez and Kuhrt, who went on trial on Oct. 17, are the last
two Stanford executives to be criminally tried for their roles
in a  Ponzi scheme  built on bogus CDs. Early investors were paid
above-market returns with funds taken from later investors, and
the accountants helped cover up the Stanford bank’s insolvency
for years before U.S. securities regulators seized the operation
in early 2009 on suspicion of fraud, prosecutors said.  Appealing Verdict  Stanford, 62, was convicted in March of masterminding the
fraud scheme and is serving a 110-year sentence at a federal
prison in  Florida . He is appealing the verdict and his sentence.  Federal prosecutors told jurors that Lopez and Kuhrt
meticulously tracked about $2 billion that Stanford “sucked
out” of the bank to fund risky private ventures including
Caribbean airlines, resort developments and international
cricket tournaments. The accountants didn’t disclose these loans
or additional funds that Stanford took to underwrite a lavish
personal lifestyle of private jets, yachts and waterfront
mansions, the government said.  Stanford told CD buyers their money was invested in
conservative liquid assets and overseen by international money
managers. Evidence at his  jury trial  showed that Stanford and
his top deputy, finance chief James M. Davis, secretly
controlled more than 80 percent of the bank’s investments, much
of which was loaned to Stanford or used to underwrite his other
businesses.  ‘Massive Fraud’  “There’s no doubt whatsoever there was a massive fraud
going on, but it was a Stanford and Davis fraud, not a Lopez and
Kuhrt fraud,” Richard Kuniansky, Kuhrt’s lawyer, told jurors
today. Stanford and Davis “withheld everything that was
obviously criminal from their so-called partner in crime,” he
said.  Jack Zimmermann, Lopez’s lawyer, also made the argument
that Lopez and Kuhrt weren’t in the loop.  “Was there one witness who came here and told you Gil
Lopez had access to the real numbers?” Zimmermann asked.  Jurors heard Lopez, Kuhrt and Davis testify during the
four-week trial. Davis pleaded guilty to his role in the scheme
in 2009, testified against Stanford at his trial and is awaiting
sentencing.  Goldberg showed the jury two Power Point slides of what he
claimed were lies Lopez and Kuhrt told under oath. All of these
lies, he said, were told to protect “the hot secret, the
criminal secret” that “the source of Mr. Stanford’s money and
lifestyle was the bank” and the $2 billion of investors’ money
the financier took for personal use.  The accountants’ lawyers said their clients testified
truthfully and urged jurors not to believe Davis, whom Kuniansky
called “one of the most despicable human beings.”  ‘Trusted Them’  “The government is trying to attach criminality to all
these complicated accounting issues,” Kuniansky said. “Looking
in hindsight, of course there are things he should’ve done
differently. But at that point in time, he trusted them.”
Zimmermann asked jurors to question why the government didn’t
cross examine Lopez when he testified, “especially since they
believed he was lying.”  “A lying defendant is a prosecutor’s dream, but they
didn’t ask him one question,” Zimmermann said. “Why not try to
trip him up?”  Lawyers for Lopez and Kuhrt told jurors the accountants
relied on investment returns provided by Stanford and Davis and
never intended to create false financial records or break any
laws. The accountants also lobbied Davis to disclose Stanford’s
borrowings to investors and were overruled, they said.  ‘Accounting Principle’  “Gil Lopez didn’t believe it was illegal not to disclose”
loans Stanford took from the bank, as he considered it an
internal dispute over accounting principles, Zimmermann said.
“A violation of an accounting principle or practice is not a
violation of criminal law.”  The accountants’ lawyers said Stanford was consolidating
the private ventures he funded with investors’ cash onto the
bank’s balance sheet in late 2008 and early 2009. The
accountants were prevented from completing the rollup by the
government seizure of Stanford’s companies, their lawyers said.  If convicted of all charges, each of the men faces a
possible sentence of more than 20 years in prison.  The case is U.S. v Lopez, 4:09-cr-0342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 