-- Orange Juice Gains on Crop Risk; Cotton, Coffee Rise
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a   a n d   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-11-14T20:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/sugar-seen-climbing-on-slow-brazil-harvest-coffee-cotton-gain.html
(Corrects to show cotton and coffee rose in the headline.)  Orange juice  futures reached a two-
week high on speculation that cooler weather might hurt groves
in  Florida , the world’s second-largest grower. Cotton and coffee
rose, while sugar fell.  The U.S. East Coast may end November with temperatures 3
degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 Celsius) below normal, according to
Commodity Weather Group LLC. In the week ended Nov. 6, money
managers and speculators more than doubled their net short-
positions, or bearish bets, to 1,798 futures and options, the
most since mid-August, government data show.  “It’s turning cold, and this is reminding everybody what’s
coming”  Jack Scoville , a vice president for Price Futures Group
in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “People are trying
to get out of shorts.”  Orange juice for January delivery jumped 3 percent to close
at $1.128 a pound at 1:38 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York,
after reaching $1.136, the highest since Oct. 25.  Orange shipments from  Brazil , the largest grower, to the
European Union were suspended last month after EU officials
found samples with black spot fungus, a Brazilian government
official said on Nov. 12.  “The ban on Brazil could also be supporting the demand
outlook for fruit from the U.S. because they are our
competitors,” Scoville said.  Cotton futures for March delivery advanced 0.9 percent to
71.26 cents a pound in  New York .  Arabica-coffee futures for March delivery gained 1 percent
to $1.5275 a pound on ICE.  Raw-sugar futures for March delivery dropped 0.6 percent to
19.24 cents a pound on ICE.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Laya in New York at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net ;
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  