-- Sweden-Norway Power Link Project Under Review by Partners
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-11-14T09:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/sweden-norway-power-link-project-under-review-by-partners.html
Svenska Kraftnat and Statnett SF,
grid operators in  Sweden  and Norway, are reviewing the need for
an oft-delayed  1,400-megawatt power cable  that was planned to
boost connections between Oslo and Stockholm.  The cable, proposed in 2008, was originally due to be
brought into service as early as  2012 . It has since suffered
several delays, with the project now up for review by both
companies.  “The cable was until recently planned for 2019 although
Statnett have now said they’d like an unspecified delay,
prompting us in turn to set a completion time frame of 2018 to
2022,” Mikael Odenberg, director general of Svenska Kraftnaet,
said today by e-mail.  The southern part of the Nordic  power grid  between Sweden
and Norway is prone to disruptions and frequent transmission
bottlenecks. The Sydvaestlaenken project, or South West Link, is
intended to boost transmission capacity and  smooth out power
prices  while paving the way for increased wind power output,
according to the grid companies.  Existing connections are generally used to ship out cheap
hydropower from  Norway  to neighboring countries, and their
operation affects electricity prices in the region, which gets
more than half of its power from running water through turbines.  “We are trying to establish a mutual understanding for
joint solutions which benefit both countries, and need to review
things,” Statnett’s Executive Vice President Gunnar G. Loevas
said by e-mail today. A revised view on the project may be
presented “within the course of a few months,” he said,
declining to comment further.  Statnett is part of a group that plans to build a 1,400-
megawatt undersea cable, dubbed NorGer, from  Germany  to Norway
by 2018, followed by a 1,400-megawatt link to the U.K. in 2020.  These plans, which could be more profitable for Norway than
the South West Link, may have caused the company’s interest in
boosting grids toward Sweden to wane, Odenberg said on Nov. 7 at
a  conference  in  Stockholm .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  