-- U.A.E. Bank Margins Reduced as Lending Slows: Arab Credit
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-11-14T07:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/u-a-e-bank-margins-reduced-as-lending-slows-arab-credit.html
United Arab Emirates’ banks,
struggling with bad loans after Dubai teetered on the brink of
default in 2009, are seeing profit margins shrink as lending
slows and falling interest rates curb gains on investments.  The net interest margin, the difference between what banks
earn from loans and what they pay on liabilities such as
customer deposits, has dropped for the top five U.A.E. lenders
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The measure
at  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the U.A.E.’s biggest bank by assets,
slipped to 2.35 percent in the third quarter, from 2.85 percent
at the end of the year. Second-ranked  National Bank of Abu Dhabi
PJSC  posted a decline to 2.16 percent, from 2.4 percent.  Bank lending in the U.A.E., the second-biggest Arab
economy, has risen 3.2 percent in August from a year ago, about
a fifth of the rate in  Saudi Arabia  and a 10th of that in Qatar,
according to  central bank data . U.A.E. banks are also setting
aside more cash to meet new liquidity rules from January and are
earning less on that cash as interest rates decline.  “Credit growth remains very limited” and the trend of
falling net interest margins is probably there to stay, Timucin Engin, a Dubai-based associate director at  Standard & Poor’s ,
said by phone yesterday. “In the absence of loan growth in a
low interest rate environment,” banks are forced to park funds
in short-term instruments like certificates of deposits which
earn lower  interest rates  and so hurt margins, he said.  Benchmark Rate  The three-month U.A.E. interbank  rate , a benchmark used by
banks to price some loans, has fallen 22 basis points, or 0.22
percentage points, this year, and has held at 1.3 percent since
Oct. 18. That compares with a 19 basis-point increase in the
three-month Saudi interbank rate this year to 0.97375 percent
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.A.E. bank credit rose more than 30 percent annually from
2005 to 2008, as a surge in property investments boosted bank
profits. Growth slowed from 2009 as the global credit crisis
pushed companies to cut back on investments and Dubai state-
owned companies such as Dubai World rescheduled debt repayments.  Banks are also restraining lending after a new central bank
rule was introduced imposing a cap on loans to governments and
state-owned companies. According to the new regulation, banks
can’t lend more than 100 percent of their capital to local
governments and state-related entities. Institutions had until
Sept. 30 to comply. There was no limit under previous rules.  Boosting Competition  The U.A.E., with a population of 8.3 million, has 51 banks.
Slower loan growth has boosted competition, with net interest
margins at  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB) , the third-biggest
U.A.E. bank by assets,  First Gulf Bank PJSC (FGB)  and  Dubai Islamic
Bank PJSC (DIB) , also all declining, according to the data.  Lenders’ earnings from loans “have typically declined
faster than funding costs have improved,” Rahul Shah, a bank
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Dubai, said yesterday by e-mail
in response to questions. “Investment yields are also trending
down given the low global interest rate environment.”  The U.A.E. currency, the dirham, is pegged to the dollar
and interest rates track those in the U.S., which has pledged to
keep interest rates near zero at least until the end of 2014.  Costs Drop  Falling interest rates have also allowed banks to raise
funds at lower costs. First Gulf Bank raised $650 million last
month from the sale of five-year bonds with a coupon rate of
2.86 percent, compared to the 4.05 percent paid on $500 million
of debt in January. National Bank of  Abu Dhabi  paid a coupon of
3.04 percent for $750 million of seven-year notes in August,
compared with 3.25 percent on a $750 million, five-year note in
March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Funding costs are actually looking better for the
banks,” Aybek Islamov, a Dubai-based bank analyst at  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , said by phone Nov. 12. Banks “have been able to
refinance at reasonable spreads compared to what they used to
pay historically and the cost of fixed deposits is falling.”  Slow loan growth combined with a 4.5 percent advance in
customer deposits in August from a year ago has also led to an
increase in funds at banks. Banks are offering cheaper rates on
mortgages, cars and personal loans.  “Over the past year or so typical mortgage rates have
declined from around 7 percent to 4.5 percent,” Shah at
 Deutsche Bank (DBK)  said. “Rates for certain other consumer financing
products have also tightened and on the wholesale side, we
believe pricing for the best quality credits remains
competitive.”  Asset Ratios  The central bank is imposing new liquidity asset ratios
from January aimed at helping banks withstand market
disruptions. Lenders will be required to hold 10 percent of
their liabilities in “high-quality liquid assets,” including
cash, central bank certificates of deposits, U.A.E. federal
government bonds, reserves and other account balances at the
central bank and local government debt, the bank said in July.  With slower loan growth, “banks are becoming more liquid
and their capitalization is becoming stronger,” Engin at
Standard & Poor’s said. “We don’t see much loan growth this
year, maybe 4 to 5 percent and a very limited amount of growth
next year as well, which is not very conducive to earnings
growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  or
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  