-- U.K. Jobless Claims Unexpectedly Rise as Labor Market Slows
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-11-14T11:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/u-k-jobless-claims-increase-as-labor-market-slows-correct-.html
U.K. jobless claims  rose at the
fastest pace in more than a year and job creation slowed,
suggesting the labor market is succumbing to a fragile economic
outlook.  Jobless-benefit claims increased 10,100 to 1.58 million in
October, the most since September last year, the Office for
National Statistics said today in London. The median of 28
estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey  was for no change.
Employment based on International Labor Organization methods
rose 100,000 in the three months through September, half the
pace of the previous period, as a boost from the London Olympics
began to fade.  Unemployment may begin rising in coming months as companies
respond to a weak outlook by freezing hiring or cutting
payrolls. Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said today the
U.K. economy may shrink in the current quarter and signaled
policy makers are ready to resume stimulus if needed by saying
they had not lost faith in quantitative easing as a policy
instrument.  “Because growth is still quite sluggish there will be
sluggish employment growth, and the unemployment rate may edge
up a bit,” said Ross Walker, an economist at  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  in  London .  The pound pared its advance against the dollar after the
central bank cut its growth outlook in its quarterly Inflation
Report and was trading at $1.5868 as of 10.58 a.m. in London,
little changed on the day.  ‘Positive Signs’  ILO unemployment  between July and September fell 49,000 to
2.51 million, though figures prepared on an experimental basis
showed an increase of 53,000 in September alone, the statistics
office said. Long-term unemployment continued to rise.  There are “really positive signs” in today’s data, though
“I don’t think any of us are complacent about the scale of the
challenges that we face,” U.K. Employment Minister Mark Hoban
said in an interview on BBC Television.  The jobless rate fell to 7.8 percent from 7.9 percent in
the three months through August. The rise in jobless claims last
month left the claims rate at 4.8 percent. In September, jobless
claims rose by 800 instead of the 4,000 drop originally
reported. It was the first back-to-back increase in claims since
June and followed eight months of decline.  Olympics Aftermath  In London, jobless claims rose by 2,900 in October,
suggesting volunteers and temporary workers hired during the
Olympics are once again looking for work.  With economic output no higher than it was a year ago,
economists have struggled to explain the strength of the labor
market. Possible reasons include an increase in part-time work
and self-employment. Downward pressure on wages meanwhile is
helping companies avoid the need to shed staff by holding down
labor costs.  “This is still a pretty strong labor market and it’s not
easy to reconcile that with a picture of underlying growth being
so weak,” King told a press conference in London today.  Average earnings grew an annual 1.8 percent in the three
months through September, compared with 1.7 percent in the
previous period. Excluding bonuses, pay growth was 1.9 percent
versus 2 percent. That’s less than the rate of inflation, which
surged to 2.7 percent in October, increasing pressure on
household budgets.  Global Outlook  While the U.K. economy expanded 1 percent in the third
quarter, indexes of manufacturing and services suggest activity
is once again cooling as the euro-region crisis cuts demand in
Britain’s biggest export market.  Figures tomorrow are forecast to show the 17-nation
currency area is back in recession.  Japan ’s economy shrank last
quarter and concerns are mounting over the $607 billion in
automatic tax increases and spending cuts known as the “fiscal
cliff” that will hit the U.S. in January unless lawmakers act.
In October, the International Monetary Fund cut its global
growth forecasts to reflect the gathering economic risks.  Flybe Group Plc (FLYB) ,  Europe ’s biggest regional airline, said
last week it’s seeking to shave 20 million pounds ($32 million)
from expenses and will examine all options, including possible
job cuts from the 3,000-strong workforce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  