-- U.K. Liberals Join Industry Pressing Conservatives on Wind
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-11-14T17:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/u-k-liberals-join-industry-pressing-conservatives-on-wind.html
Liberal Democrats joined officials
from the renewable energy industry pressing Prime Minister David Cameron’s government to rein in a minister who called for a
moratorium on new wind turbine installations.  Simon Hughes, deputy leader of the Liberal party that’s the
junior partner in Cameron’s coalition government, said he’d hold
Conservatives to their promise to be the “greenest ever”
administration. RenewableUK Deputy Chief Executive Maf Smith
said Cameron had to “get a grip” on his policy toward wind.  The comments reflect a widening rift within the coalition
about the pace of boosting renewables as part of the U.K. energy
supply. John Hayes, a junior minister in the energy department,
told Channel 4 news yesterday that enough turbines have already
been erected and that should be the “end of story.” The Energy
Department controlled by liberal  Ed Davey  says there’s been no
change in the policy to encourage wind.  “This is a deliberate attempt to recklessly re-write
coalition policy just before the most significant government
intervention in the energy markets for a generation,” Smith
said in a statement today.  The industry group released a statement urging Cameron to
confirm the U.K.’s commitment to a stable energy policy or risk
investment and jobs with the “policy brinkmanship.”  Hughes issued a statement after the Guardian reported that
Conservative lawmaker Chris Heaton-Harris offered to support an
anti-wind farm campaigner to stand as an independent candidate
against his own party in a special election in Corby,
Northamptonshire.  ‘Hell Bent’  “Some Conservatives are clearly so hell bent on disrupting
the coalition’s green agenda that they’re prepared to stab their
own candidates in the back to do it,” Hughes said.  Hayes’ remark was his second public outburst about onshore
wind in a month and is unsettling the developers and investors
that Britain has been trying to lure. Hayes along with almost
half of the lawmakers in Cameron’s party are concerned the
turbines are a blight on the landscape.  Cameron has stayed out of the argument, saying on Oct. 31
that the nation must rethink energy policy once targets for
renewables are met. “That’s what I am saying too,” Hayes told
Channel 4 yesterday. Britain gets about 9.6 percent of its
electricity from renewables now and needs to boost that to 30
percent by 2020 to meet its goals.  Heaton-Harris, who in January got more than Conservative
100 members of Parliament to sign a letter to Cameron calling
for bigger cuts to onshore wind subsidies, posted a statement
saying quotes attributed to him the Guardian report ranged from
factually correct to “me bragging about things beyond my
control.” He repeated that his aim is to prevent new onshore
turbines being built across the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  