-- U.K. Gas Prices, Carbon Permits, Level Global: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-11-14T13:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/u-k-gas-prices-carbon-permits-level-global-compliance.html
The U.K. government said it’s
prepared to legislate to clamp down on wholesale natural-gas
trading should price-fixing allegations prove true.  The Financial Services Authority, or FSA, is investigating
claims last month by the price-reporting company ICIS Heren that
“unusual trading activity” may have affected gas prices,
according to a statement yesterday. Energy Secretary  Ed Davey 
said he’s asked regulators whether they need more authority.  The probe raises questions about how market prices are
determined and whether the biggest utilities, which are involved
in setting prices, may also profit by manipulating them. Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s government has been pressing
electricity and gas suppliers to rein in costs after  Centrica
Plc (CNA)  and  SSE Plc (SSE)  raised customer prices.  The investigation broadens the efforts of British financial
regulators to curtail market abuses. Martin Wheatley, a managing
director at the FSA commissioned to investigate the Libor abuse,
had raised concerns it may spread to energy markets.  “Centrica has very robust governance and compliance
policies, which regulate its market participation and
behavior,” Britain’s biggest energy supplier said yesterday in
a statement. “Centrica’s traders are prohibited from providing
price information to price-reporting agencies.”  SSE, Britain’s second-largest energy supplier, said it’s
“entirely confident that our energy portfolio management team
operate in a fair and legitimate way.” SSE raised consumer gas
prices by 9 percent from August. Centrica said last month it
would increase them about 6 percent starting Nov. 16.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Geithner Steps Up Pressure on SEC to Make Money Funds Safer  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , stepping up
pressure on the Securities and Exchange Commission to make money
funds safer, outlined three options to overhaul the $2.6
trillion industry.  Geithner, who spoke yesterday in Washington at a meeting of
the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a group formed by the
Dodd-Frank Act and charged with addressing systemic financial
risks, said the SEC should consider a plan for a capital buffer
of 3 percent of assets that may be lowered if other steps are
taken to reduce risk. Two other solutions Geithner offered are
opposed by the funds industry and were rejected in August by a
majority of SEC commissioners.  Representatives for the fund industry, who last month put
forth their own plan to reach a compromise, rejected the
proposals, saying they didn’t advance the debate. While Geithner
has said the SEC is best positioned to address money funds, he
has also said that the regulators’ panel, often referred to as
FSOC, might intervene and subject funds to oversight by the
Federal Reserve if the SEC fails to act.  Two of the options proposed by Geithner yesterday included
the major elements of a plan backed by SEC Chairman  Mary
Schapiro  that she abandoned for lack of votes in August. That
proposal would have given money funds a choice to either drop
their traditional $1 share price for a floating value, or create
capital buffers to absorb losses and temporary holdbacks on all
withdrawals to discourage investor runs.  For more, click here, and click here.  EU Companies Face 40% Quota Rule Favoring Women on Boards  Companies may be required to favor women over equally
qualified men for supervisory board seats, as they strive to
meet a 40 percent female directors quota the European Union set
out in draft rules published today.  The European Commission adopted a proposal aiming to reach
the 40 percent level by 2020, Mina Andreeva, a spokeswoman for
EU Justice Commissioner  Viviane Reding , said in an e-mailed
statement. Regulators amended earlier proposals so that
companies would only face sanctions if they fail to favor women,
even if they don’t manage to meet the quota.  About 13.7 percent of corporate board seats in the EU are
held by women, the commission said in a  report  in March. The
measures would apply to some 5,000 listed companies in the EU by
2020 and state-owned companies by 2018, the commission said.
Some exclusions would apply.  The draft rules need the backing of most of the EU’s 27
member states and the parliament, which can amend draft laws
before they become final.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  EU Carbon Prices Slump After Commission Unveils Permit-Glut Fix  European Union emission permits dropped, erasing most of
the Nov. 12 gains, after the region’s regulator proposed to
delay sales of 900 million allowances to curb an oversupply in
the world’s biggest carbon market.  Permits for December slid as much as 8.9 percent, their
biggest drop since July 18, after gaining 9 percent Nov. 12 on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. The European
Commission is seeking to postpone sales during the three years
through 2015 to the last two years of the next trading phase,
which ends in 2020, according to a  draft document  published Nov.
12 on an EU website.  Carbon permits for December sank to a record in April,
losing 83 percent since peaking in 2008, as the region’s
financial crisis cut demand from polluters. The commission plans
to publish a report today setting out permanent changes to the
program to meet its 2050 pollution-reduction target.  The regulator may be forced to soften its plan because of
opposition from some countries, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  The number of permits to be delayed under the strategy
known as backloading is at the higher side of a range floated by
the commission in July, when it presented an outline of the
short-term plan to improve the world’s biggest cap-and-trade
market. The options drafted at the time were postponing 400
million, 900 million and 1.2 billion allowances.  The draft measure needs qualified-majority support from
national governments to become law. Its formal adoption will
take place only after the parliament votes on a separate law
relating to the timing of auctions, Climate Commissioner Connie
Hedegaard said Nov. 13 in Brussels. The parliament is
tentatively scheduled to vote on the legislative amendment in
April.  Goldman’s Risk-Weighted Assets Seen Jumping 67% Under New Rules  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-biggest U.S. bank,
would have $728 billion in risk-weighted assets under new
capital rules, a 67 percent jump from the amount it had under
earlier regulations.  Goldman Sachs plans to cut the figure to $700 billion by
the end of next year, Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C.
Blankfein, 58, said yesterday at an investor conference in New
York hosted by Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit. About
$18 billion of the reduction will come from cutting credit risk,
and $11 billion will come from market risk, said Blankfein in
his seventh straight appearance at the annual event.  The comments mark Goldman Sachs’s first public estimate of
risk-weighted assets under new Basel III rules, a figure that
serves as the denominator for determining regulatory capital
ratios. The firm said last month its capital ratio was about 8.5
percent, the exact amount it will be required to maintain based
on surcharges for the world’s largest banks released this month
by the Financial Stability Board.  Blankfein said the New York-based bank is likely to
maintain a 1 percentage point buffer above that requirement. The
need to boost the proportion of equity capital has pressured
return on equity, a measure of profitability. Banks have been
seeking to cut holdings of assets with high risk weightings to
reduce capital needs for trading businesses and improve returns.  For more, click here.  Separately, Blankfein said Wall Street competitors with
large retail businesses face increasing pressure from new global
capital rules and “the size and complexity” of the rules will
“come at a cost.”  The biggest banks will have to balance the “synergies” of
having retail and institutional businesses with the burden of
higher capital surcharges that are being imposed on systemically
important firms, Blankfein said.  Courts  Olympus Sued by State Street, Other Investors for $241 Million  Olympus Corp. (7733) , the camera and endoscope maker that admitted
an accounting fraud, said it was sued by a group of 48 investors
for 19.1 billion yen ($240 million) in damages.  The lawsuit by investors including State Street Bank and
Trust Co. and Government of Singapore Investment Corporation Pte
Ltd. was disclosed after markets in Tokyo closed Nov. 12. It was
filed on June 28 to Tokyo District Court, Olympus spokesman
Yasutoshi Fujiwara said.  Olympus shares Nov. 12 rose the most in three months after
it raised its earnings forecast. Former Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa and two other former executives in September pleaded
guilty to covering up losses at the company for 13 years
starting in the 1990s.  The lawsuit is in addition to 14 similar cases Olympus has
in Japan where investors are suing over the accounting fraud,
said another Olympus spokesman, Sam Kobayashi.  The company is studying the content of the notification
received and hasn’t decided how it will respond, Kobayashi said.
The impact on Olympus’s earnings is unclear, according to its
statement.  For more, click here.  Bartender, Dog Walker to Judge Level Global Co-Founder at Trial  A bartender and a dog walker are among the federal court
jurors hearing opening arguments in the insider-trading trial of
Level Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson and  Todd
Newman , a former portfolio manager for Diamondback Capital
Management LLC.  The jury of seven women and five men also includes a
computer animator on feature films, a retired postal worker and
a medical assistant. The jurors won’t include a hedge fund
manager and the mother-in-law of another who expressed harsh
views of the industry and were excused by U.S. District Judge
Richard Sullivan in Manhattan.  Chiasson and Newman worked at funds that were raided by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation in November 2010, as part of a
nationwide crackdown of illicit trading by portfolio managers,
analysts and insiders at technology companies. Opening
statements began yesterday.  Prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara allege that Chiasson and Newman were part of a group of
portfolio managers, analysts and technology company employees
who traded stock tips in a conspiracy that operated from 2007 to
2009.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00121, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Panels  Bair Says U.S. Should Scrap Preferential Tax Treatment  Former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair 
discussed the U.S. tax system and the outlook for a successor to
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner .  Bair, now a senior adviser at Pew Charitable Trusts, spoke
from Brussels with Manus Cranny on Bloomberg Television’s “The
Pulse.”  For the video, click here.  Brown Says Bowles a ‘Favorite’ for Treasury Secretary  Thomas Brown , chief executive officer at Second Curve
Capital LLC and a Bloomberg contributing editor, talked about
the outlook for financial regulation and Treasury Secretary
Timothy Geithner’s successor.  Brown spoke with  Betty Liu  on Bloomberg Television’s “In
the Loop.”  Michael Holland , chairman of Holland & Co., also
spoke.  For the video, click here.  CFTC International Rules Harming U.S. Firms, Swaps Brokers Say  The main U.S. swaps regulator risks harming American firms
with how it’s telling international counterparts to interpret
rules to oversee the $648 trillion swaps market, according to
executives at brokers from ICAP Plc to Tradition North America
Inc.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is weighing final
guidance on the cross-border reach of trading, capital,
collateral and other swaps rules under the Dodd-Frank Act. The
commission held a meeting in Washington last week with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, which shares oversight of
some swaps markets, where European regulators said the U.S.
approach wouldn’t work.  “It’s actually very evident that a lot of what the CFTC
has done is harming the U.S.,” Mark Beeston, chief executive
officer of portfolio risk services for ICAP, said on a panel
discussion at the SefCon III conference in New York.  Group of 20 nations set an end-of-year goal to complete
swaps regulations designed to reduce risk and increase
transparency in a market faulted for helping to fuel the 2008
credit crisis. Lack of clarity and cross-border wrangling over
the rules threaten to delay the deadline.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Diamond Libor Taint Drives Colby Students Seeking His Ouster  Robert Diamond , the former  Barclays Plc (BARC)  chief, gave $6
million to finance a Colby College building that has become a
focal point for student dissent over his role at the 199-year-
old school in Waterville, Maine.  Diamond, class of ’73, was forced out at Barclays after the
London-based bank admitted to manipulating a key lending rate
affecting $300 trillion in finance products worldwide. Since
Colby trustees backed him as chairman in August, a group of
students and local activists has rallied outside the Diamond
Building to call for his removal.  The market crisis that led to the longest recession since
World War II highlighted a cozy relationship between academia
and Wall Street. As campus protests focused on financiers,
academic leaders urged graduates to resist the lure of banking
and investment jobs.  Yet executives who’ve been tarnished by scandal are rarely
forced to cut ties with schools and nonprofit organizations
they’ve supported, said Stanley Katz, a professor of public and
international affairs at Princeton University. Usually a trustee
caught up in such situations simply isn’t re-elected, rather
than being forced off the board, Katz said.  For more, click here.  Tucker’s Odds on Becoming BOE Governor Narrow at Paddy Power  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker ’s odds of
becoming the next governor narrowed at  Paddy Power Plc. (PAP)   The price on Tucker replacing  Mervyn King  in June shortened
to 1-3 from 4-9, meaning a successful 3-pound bet would win a 1-
pound profit, the Dublin-based bookmaker said on its website.
The second favorite for the role is Terence Burns, former
Permanent Secretary at the Treasury, at 13-2.  Tucker’s position as the favorite for getting the top
central bank job wobbled earlier this year as he and his
colleagues were embroiled in the Libor scandal, and he briefly
lost his lead position to Gus O’Donnell, former head of the
civil service.  The application deadline for the Bank of England job was
Oct. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  