-- U.S. Releases Rules to Guide Foreign Bribery Enforcement
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-11-14T15:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/u-s-releases-rules-to-guide-foreign-bribery-enforcement.html
Officials who work for companies
that are more than half owned or controlled by a foreign
government are probably covered by U.S. foreign bribery laws,
the Justice Department and Securities and Exchange Commission
said today.  The status of employees of state-owned companies is part of
a 120-page document providing the most detailed  guidelines  to
date for a law that has cost companies billions of dollars in
fines and penalties.  “When business is won or lost based on how much a company
is willing to pay in bribes rather than on the quality of its
products and services, law-abiding companies are placed at a
competitive disadvantage--and consumers lose,” said Assistant
Attorney General Lanny Breuer and  Robert Khuzami , the SEC’s
enforcement director, in the foreward of the guidance.  The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act bars companies or
individuals regulated or based in the U.S. from paying bribes to
foreign officials to win business. Foreign companies and
nationals also can be prosecuted if their corrupt acts were
committed in the U.S.  The SEC and Justice Department have stepped up their
enforcement of the 1977 law in recent years. The guidance, which
also addresses what level of gifts, travel and entertainment
constitute a violation, has been long sought after by law firms,
which are called in to investigate and negotiate alleged
wrongdoing.  Foreign bribery investigations have touched companies with
foreign subsidiaries. In 2009,  KBR Inc. (KBR) , which was spun off in
2007 from Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the oilfield services
company, agreed to pay $579 million to resolve criminal charges
and civil claims by the SEC that it orchestrated a 10-year
bribery scheme on behalf of its joint-venture partners in
Nigeria’s Bonny Island liquefied natural gas facility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  