-- Ukraine Minister Aims for Restriction-Free Wheat Exports
-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-11-14T11:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/ukraine-minister-aims-for-restriction-free-wheat-exports.html
Ukrainian exporters may be able to
ship wheat cargoes free of restrictions this year, according to
Agriculture Minister Mykola Prysyazhnyuk.  Ukraine exported 10 million metric tons of grain including
5.2 million tons of wheat since July 1, Prysyazhnyuk said today.
Ministry officials and traders will meet tomorrow to review
stockpiles and an export limit currently set at 5.5 million
tons. The country’s exportable surplus is 6.5 million tons, the
head of the Ukrainian Grain Association, Volodymyr Klymenko,
said on Nov. 9.  “I hope we will cope without restrictions,” Prysyazhnyuk
told reporters at a weekly government meeting today in the
capital, Kiev, referring to wheat. “Every 15 days we meet grain
traders, revise our memorandum, take account of domestic
stockpiles and potential exports and I think that so far we are
going smoothly.”  Wheat futures in Chicago jumped as much as 3 percent on
Oct. 24 after Reuters cited Prysyazhnyuk as saying shipments
would be halted as of Nov. 15. No government decision to ban
exports had been taken, Vitaliy Lukyaneko, a spokesman for Prime
Minister  Mykola Azarov , said later that day. Ukraine, along with
 Russia , restricted shipments in 2010 because of drought, helping
push futures up 47 percent that year.  Drought may cut the combined wheat harvests in Ukraine,
Russia and  Kazakhstan  by 37 percent this year, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  has estimated.  Corn Exports  Ukraine has enough milling wheat for both domestic needs
and reserves in the current marketing year, according to the
country’s agriculture ministry. While exports will decline in
November, that’s essentially because traders will ship corn,
which is coming to the market “massively,” it said. About 12
million tons of corn may be delivered this season, it said.  “ Food security  is question No. 1,” Prysyazhnyuk said
today. “We follow the agreements and the memorandum.”  Ukraine ranked eighth among world wheat exporters last
season and was the fourth-biggest shipper of corn, USDA data
show.  Wheat for March delivery gained 0.7 percent to $8.7175 a
bushel today on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, rising for the first
time in four days. Corn futures advanced 0.3 percent to $7.2825
a bushel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  