-- Turkey, Israel Warn Syria Against Violations of Territory
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-11-14T14:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/turkey-israel-warn-syria-against-violations-of-territory.html
Turkey  scrambled its warplanes and
warned that it will respond to any violation of its airspace as
Syrian jets bombed a rebel-held town near the border for a third
day.  Israel  also vowed to defend its borders.  Turkish soldiers were monitoring the fighting from newly
dug foxholes in the town of Ceylanpinar as gunfire crackled
across the border, NTV television showed today. Authorities used
loudspeakers to warn residents to stay away as a Syrian jet
dropped four bombs on the town of Ras al-Ayn, the state-run
Anatolia news agency said. Several bullets hit houses,
businesses and government buildings without causing casualties
today, Anatolia said.  The attack came shortly after a Syrian helicopter hovered
above Ras al-Ayn following shelling by artillery units earlier
today, the agency said. Amateur video footage showed Syrians
running in panic or weeping over dead bodies amid debris of
demolished houses in Ras al-Ayn, Anatolia reported. Aerial
bombardments have shattered the windows of shops and houses and
prompted some Turks to abandon their homes. Schools in the area
have been shut until Nov. 19.  President Bashar al-Assad’s forces have been trying to
clear rebel forces from Ras al-Ayn in clashes that have killed
or wounded dozens of people over the past week and reignited
tensions with Turkey.  Busloads of rebel forces crossed from Turkey into Ras al-
Ayn, Hurriyet newspaper said today, citing unidentified
witnesses.  Syria  accuses Turkey of backing the rebels.  Red Crescents  Turkey set up a field hospital in the courtyard of a
primary school in Ceylanpinar as a precaution, authorities said.
Giant red crescents were visible on top of the tent hospital
against a white background -- a measure against aerial attacks.  Turkey’s army has been firing back after repeated shelling
of Turkish soil by Syrian forces. Defense Minister Ismet Yilmaz
said today Turkey will give the “necessary response” to any
airspace violation, Anatolia reported. Turkey has deployed anti-
aircraft guns, tanks and missiles on the border, and Yilmaz said
its forces there are “authorized to intervene immediately.”  Israel said it was also determined to defend its borders
and its territory and that the Israeli position has been made
clear to Syria, Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said,
according to a text message from his office. Israel has twice
targeted Syrian guns that had launched mortar shells into
Israeli-controlled territory of  Golan Heights , and the army said
it scored “direct hits.”  Refugee Flow  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  today called for
more pressure on Syria and announced $30 million in humanitarian
aid to those affected by the 20-month uprising against Assad,
which has killed more than 35,000 people, according to
opposition groups.  Four million Syrians, including almost 2 million children
and adolescents, may need humanitarian assistance by next year,
according to the United Nations Office for the Coordination of
Humanitarian Affairs. About 408,000 refugees have fled Syria and
the number is rising by 2,000 to 3,000 a day, it said. At least
1.2 million Syrians are now internally displaced.  Clinton, speaking in Perth,  Australia , welcomed the
formation of a new Syrian opposition coalition, announced on
Nov. 11 after talks in Qatar.  France  yesterday became the first
Western country to formally recognize the alliance, the National
Coalition for Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces.  Fayssal Mekdad, Syria’s deputy foreign minister, lashed out
at the opposition group, saying its members don’t want dialogue.
“They want to destroy Syria,” Mekdad told Russian television,
according to Syria’s state-run SANA news agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  