-- Vale CEO Says Brazil Royalties Settlement Won’t Exceed Provision
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-11-14T22:16:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/vale-ceo-says-brazil-royalties-settlement-won-t-exceed-provision.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, won’t pay more than the 1.41 billion reais ($682
million) already provisioned to settle a royalties dispute,
Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira said.  Rio de Janeiro-based Vale expects to announce the
settlement with the Brazilian government in the coming weeks,
Ferreira told reporters today in New York. The company, which as
recently as April 17 said that it estimated the claims at about
5.64 billion reais, said Sept. 4 it was setting aside 1.41
billion reais to pay the overdue mining royalties.  “It will be below that level, it won’t exceed it,”
Ferreira told reporters after a meeting with investors in New
York. “It will be announced in the next few weeks.”  Vale  has been fighting Brazilian tax claims as governments
from Australia to  Chile  seek to boost revenue from metals and
mineral mining. Separately,  Brazil  also says it’s owed about
30.7 billion reais in taxes tied to Vale’s profit from foreign
units. Concern the payments would cause losses led Vale shares
to slump 22 percent last year, the worst performance in three
years.  Vale’s American depositary receipts fell 1.5 percent to
$17.44 today.  Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led by Ivano Westin said in
a report July 13 that the company may end up paying 1.2 billion
reais in the dispute.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ’s Felipe Reis and Alex
Sciacio estimated the final payment at about 4 billion reais,
they said in an Aug. 16 research note.  The Brazilian Finance Ministry’s revenue service is
claiming taxes on overseas profit from 1996 to 2008 in four
separate disputes. The agency may file claims for the period
starting in 2009, Vale said March 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  