-- Vermilion to Buy Zaza Energy Assets With Possible Shale Reserves
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-11-14T16:06:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/vermilion-to-buy-zaza-energy-assets-with-possible-shale-reserves.html
Vermilion Energy Inc. (VET) , the biggest
French oil producer, will buy assets from ZaZa Energy  France  SAS
to acquire interests in producing fields in the Paris Basin,
which may contain crude reserves locked within shale rock.  Vermilion, based in Calgary, Canada, will pay $86 million
for interests across 24,300 acres (9,834 hectares) in the Saint
Firmin, Chateaurenard, Courtenay, Chuelles and Charmottes fields
around the French capital, according to a statement today.  President  Francois Hollande  pledged to retain a French ban
on hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, a drilling technique used
to extract oil and natural gas from shale. The ZaZa assets had
been held by Toreador Resources Corp., later merged with ZaZa.  French energy explorers, through the Union Francaise des
Industries Petrolieres, are lobbying the government to research
potential shale energy projects. Studies would be allowed under
the ban’s provisions as long as they are overseen by the state.  “Research is possible on techniques other than hydraulic
fracturing,” Hollande said yesterday. “It’s not banned.”  Toreador also had exploration licenses in the Paris Basin
that it had intended to explore for shale oil. The licenses were
transferred to  Hess Corp. (HES)  this year. “The acquired assets offer
a strong fit with our current French operations,” Vermilion
said. The fields produce about 850 barrels of oil a day.  Hollande said Sept. 14 he would uphold a ban on fracking in
France, one of the two nations with the greatest potential for
recoverable shale gas in  Europe . He declined to create, as
proponents of the method had hoped, a national commission for
research into extraction techniques and shale reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  