-- Vietnam Premier Pledges to Aid Companies, Boost Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-14T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/vietnam-premier-pledges-to-aid-companies-boost-economy.html
Vietnam  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung said that he intends to stay in his job after lawmakers
criticized his handling of the economy.  National Assembly delegates asked the Prime Minister to
introduce a “culture of resignation” and provide specific
measures to restructure the economy in a session broadcast live
on state television yesterday. Dung said he would never “say no
to any tasks assigned to me by the Party,” referring to his
appointment by the country’s Communist leadership.  Speculation over Dung’s political future has intensified
amid escalating unease over his management of the country,
including a failure to reform state firms and tackle corruption
within elite circles. Dung last month apologized for the
government’s shortcomings, a week after the head of the
Communist Party admitted top party members had made “big
mistakes”. The admissions have prompted concern the country is
facing serious political upheaval as  economic growth  slows.  “What is being laid bare here is a confidence gap between
various and increasingly vocal elements within the party and
state apparatus on the one hand, and figures at the pinnacle of
state power on the other, with Dung in particular being singled
out for punishment,” said Jonathan  London , Assistant Professor
at the  City University of Hong Kong ’s Department of Asian and
International Studies.  Dung vowed to improve oversight of state conglomerates,
deal strictly with violations by the nation’s banks and help
struggling companies with additional tax measures in 2013, he
told the assembly following criticism from lawmakers yesterday,
including the call to replace apologies with resignations.  ‘Culture of Resignation’  “The Prime Minister should take this chance to show your
determination in repairing your mistakes by stop saying sorry,
replacing it with a new practice that’s more suitable to a
modern culture, which is a culture of resignation,” said
delegate Duong Trung Quoc. The comments were not a request for
the Prime Minister to resign, Quoc told Bloomberg News by
telephone after the session.  Vietnam is struggling to revive an economy that’s set to
grow at the slowest pace since 1999 this year, and stem non-
performing loans that are at the highest level in Southeast
Asia. The rising level of bad debt threatens the stability of
the financial system and has made banks reluctant to lend,
crimping corporate expansion and domestic consumption.  Two other delegates at yesterday’s session challenged Dung,
including over alleged failures to tackle the consequences of
mismanagement at state-owned firms. “Some constituents think
that your measures to repair the consequences are not
sufficient,” said delegate Nguyen Ba Thuyen. “Constituents are
getting impatient.”  Leadership Challenge  Dung’s two main rivals, President Truong Tan Sang and
Communist Party General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong, are using
the latest economic downturn to challenge his leadership, Tuong
Vu, associate professor at the University of Oregon said last
month. Competing networks in the party are vying for power and
money that come from resources sales, construction projects and
monopoly licenses in industries such as banking and energy, he
said.  The Prime Minister in September ordered a crackdown on
blogs that grew in popularity as they attacked his leadership
and highlighted allegations of corruption. Speculation had
mounted ahead of the Communist Party’s plenum last month that
Dung could be dismissed, according to Carl Thayer, professor of
politics at the Australian Defense Force Academy in Canberra.  Vietnam’s economy is “stagnating” due to high levels of
non-performing loans and unsold inventories at companies, which
Dung said are the main “obstructions” to expansion. The
government will consider in the first half of 2013 a package of
tax incentives with more exemptions and reductions to help
businesses, he said.  Vietnamese businesses are hampered by difficulties in
accessing credit, while  bank lending  is curbed by rising bad-
debt ratios, Dung said. Central bank Governor Nguyen Van Binh
told the National Assembly Nov. 13 the ratio of non-performing
loans as of Sept. 30 is seen at 8.82 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  