-- Vodafone CEO Won’t Rule Out Disposal of Verizon Wireless
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-11-15T08:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/vodafone-chief-colao-won-t-rule-out-exit-from-verizon-wireless.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  Chief Executive
Officer  Vittorio Colao  says while he’s satisfied with the
company’s U.S. venture with  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , he
wouldn’t rule out exiting the business in future.  “I see myself as the guardian of money from shareholders,”
Colao said yesterday in Barcelona at a conference organized
by Morgan Stanley. Vodafone, which owns 45 percent of Verizon
Wireless, doesn’t count on dividends from the asset to fund
 payouts  to its own shareholders, he said, calling dividends
from the largest U.S. mobile carrier source of “an extra
layer of comfort.”  Verizon Wireless said this week it will pay its parents
$8.5 billion in dividends, with Newbury, England-based
Vodafone’s share being $3.83 billion. The payout is not
guaranteed and Vodafone, as the minority partner, needs to
negotiate every year and that creates uncertainty for investors
in the world’s second-largest mobile-phone company.  Vodafone’s board reviews the investment twice a year, Colao
said. The company is pleased with its partnership with New York-
based Verizon.  Verizon Wireless  last quarter added 1.54 million
net contract customers, beating analysts’ estimates, and boosted
revenue by 7.3 percent to $19 billion.  Verizon Wireless is “the leading company in terms of
management and everything else -- it’s going very well,” Colao
said at the conference.  Extra Revenue  Vodafone added 0.8 percent to 162.15 pence at 8:19 a.m. in
London trading, valuing the carrier, whose revenue trails Hong
Kong-listed  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , at 79.7 billion pounds ($126
billion). The stock is down 10 percent this year through
yesterday. Verizon Communications fell 0.7 percent to $42.24 in
 New York  yesterday.  Vodafone is working on generating extra revenue from each
customer as it rolls out more expensive unlimited plans and
proposes to levy a premium for faster fourth-generation
services.  If customers trade up that could increase average monthly
bills, Colao said. While it’s too soon to say what the effect
will be, more customers are moving to pricier services than
trading down to cheaper ones since Vodafone introduced its Red
plans with unlimited voice and text, he said.  Europe Slowdown  The company will charge a premium for its faster 4G, or
LTE, services, which may help push up prices industrywide, Colao
said. Vodafone reported its first decline in organic service
revenue in 10 quarters on Nov. 13 as its European market
suffered from the region’s economic slowdown.  Colao has said he envies the pricing market in the U.S.,
where Verizon Wireless operates. Verizon generated an average of
$145.42 a month last quarter from customers on contracts.  Vodafone isn’t ruling out expansion in southern  Europe ,
where it took a 5.9 billion-pound writedown on assets in Italy
and Spain this week.  While declining to comment specifically about Vodafone’s
interest in Yoigo, a Spanish unit of  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) , Colao said
he would explore acquisitions in the country. Vodafone and
 France Telecom SA (FTE)  have explored bids for Yoigo, two people with
knowledge of the matter said in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in Barcelona at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  