-- Wal-Mart Starts Food-Testing Subscription Service
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2012-11-14T21:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/wal-mart-starts-food-testing-subscription-service.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, started a monthly service that sends boxfuls
of sample-sized specialty food items to subscribers as it tries
to lure customers who have not traditionally gone to its stores.  The  Goodies Co.  service, developed by the company’s
@WalmartLabs unit, offers five to eight hand-picked taster
samples, ranging from healthy and organic to artisan and ethnic
foods, for $7 a month, the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company
said in a statement today.  The service is the latest push into e-commerce by Wal-Mart
as it seeks to add higher income consumers to its customer base
and compete with online retailers. The company has developed its
@WalmartLabs unit, based in San Bruno,  California , to bring in
social media expertise to advance its Web-based business.  The Goodies service is targeting individuals including
“yuppies” and “soccer moms” to give customers an opportunity
to discover new foods and offer items that may be difficult to
find, Shernaz Daver, a spokeswoman for Wal-Mart, said by
telephone.  Subscribers can receive loyalty points for reviewing the
samples and have the option of buying full-sized versions on the
company’s website, Daver said.  “They’re trying to attract a more affluent customer,”
David Galper, head of retail and apparel investment banking for
KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., said. “This is not the kind of
offering one would typically expect from Wal-Mart.”  Wal-Mart can also use customer reviews and the volume of
full-size orders to guide decisions on purchasing and inventory,
he said.  About 3,000 people in the U.S. have tested Goodies since
August, receiving monthly treat boxes with themes such as
“Flavors around the World” or “Trick-or-Treat Sweets,” the
company said. Its Thanksgiving theme is “Easy Entertaining,”
with gourmet foods such as wine biscuits, pumpkin souffle mix,
and dark chocolate infused Quinoa bars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in  New York  at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  