-- Wholesale Prices in U.S. Unexpectedly Fall on Fuel, Vehicles
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-11-14T13:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/wholesale-prices-in-u-s-unexpectedly-fall-on-fuel-vehicles.html
Wholesale prices in the U.S.
unexpectedly fell in October for the first time in five months
as energy and vehicle costs dropped.  The 0.2 percent decline in the  producer price index  came
after a 1.1 percent increase the prior month, Labor Department
figures showed today in  Washington . The  median  estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 73 economists called for a 0.2 percent rise.
Excluding volatile food and energy, the so-called  core  measure
decreased 0.2 percent, the first drop since November 2010.  Companies like  Neenah Paper Inc. (NP)  anticipate expenses for
raw materials will remain restrained as  Europe ’s debt crisis
weighs on global demand. Limited prices within the production
pipeline are consistent with Federal Reserve policy makers’ view
that inflation is likely to be contained, giving them room to
focus on steps to spur economic growth.  “The overall picture is one of fairly subdued price
pressures,”  David Sloan , a senior economist at 4Cast Inc. in
New York, said before the report. “There’s no major risk that
inflation will accelerate.”  Economists’ estimates for producer prices ranged from a
decline of 0.2 percent to an increase of 0.6 percent. Core
wholesale prices were projected to rise 0.1 percent, the
Bloomberg survey showed.  Retail  sales  fell in October for the first time in four
months, influenced by the effects of superstorm Sandy, which
hurt receipts for some and helped for others, a report from the
Commerce Department also showed today.  Retail Sales  The 0.3 percent drop in purchases followed a 1.3 percent
increase in September that was larger than previously reported.
The Commerce Department said it was able to collect information
from the storm-affected area, even as it was not able to
quantify its impact.  Stock-index futures maintained gains after the reports,
with the contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing
next month rising 0.4 percent to 1,376.2 at 8:33 a.m. in  New
York .  The PPI report showed that compared with the same month a
year earlier, companies paid 2.3 percent more for goods, after a
2.1 percent rise. The core index increased 2.1 percent in the 12
months ended in October following a 2.3 percent gain.  The drop in the PPI was led by a 0.5 percent decrease for
energy prices. Heating oil declined 3.3 percent and gasoline was
down 2.2 percent.  Expenses for intermediate goods decreased 0.1 percent, and
those for crude goods climbed 0.9 percent.  Core PPI  The core PPI index was restrained by a drop in vehicle
prices that reflected the change-over to a new model year. The
cost of passenger cars fell 1.6 percent, the most since July
2009. Light trucks dropped 1.5 percent, the most since October
2010.  Contained raw materials costs are helping manufacturers
like Alpharetta, Georgia-based paper maker Neenah Paper. The
company said pulp prices in the fourth quarter are expected to
decline in  North America  and increase slightly in  Germany .  “With weakened global demand, prices for most other raw
materials are expected to stay in line with the third quarter,”
John O’Donnell, chief executive officer, said on a Nov. 7
conference call with analysts. “Looking ahead into 2013,
expectations are for modest increases in most input costs.”  Limited price pressures give policy makers more room to
maintain a third round of unprecedented bond-buying aimed at
spurring the expansion and reducing unemployment. Longer-term
inflation expectations have “remained stable,” the  Federal
Open Market Committee  said in an Oct. 24 statement after its
meeting.  2 Percent  “The Committee also anticipates that inflation over the
medium term likely would run at or below its 2 percent
objective,” the Fed officials said.  Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department. Import prices unexpectedly
climbed in October, led by increases in energy expenses that
have since been reversed. The  0.5 percent  advance in the import-
 price index  followed a 1.1 percent gain in September and a 1.2
percent rise in August, figures showed last week.  The cost of living index, the broadest of the three
measures, may have climbed in October at the slowest pace in
three months, economists project ahead of data due tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net 
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  