-- Wolters Kluwer Says European Business Won’t Grow in 2013
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-11-15T09:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/wolters-kluwer-says-european-business-won-t-grow-in-2013.html
Wolters Kluwer NV,  Europe ’s largest
tax and legal publisher, said business in the region is unlikely
to grow next year because of lingering recessions and a decline
in demand for printed material.  “In 2013, we’ll not see any improvement in Europe, and so
we’ll continue to manage our business aggressively,” Chief
Executive Officer Nancy McKinstry told investors yesterday at a
conference in Barcelona organized by Morgan Stanley. “We are in
the process of re-balancing our footprint” in the region.  Wolters Kluwer and peers, including  Reed Elsevier Plc (REL) , have
focused on growth through online subscriptions, software and
service offerings to make up for a sales drop in printed
products and the economic slowdown in Europe. McKinstry
reiterated that Alphen aan den Rijn, Netherlands-based  Wolters
Kluwer (WKL)  will meet its financial targets for this year, helped by
growth in markets abroad.  Revenue from  Asia , which “today is a relatively small
part” of the Dutch publisher’s earnings, “certainly will
continue to grow very well,” McKinstry said in an interview at
the conference. It’s “an area that we are investing in.”  Wolters Kluwer  fell  as much as 1.3 percent to 14.28 euros
and was trading down 1.2 percent at 10:27 a.m. in Amsterdam.
That pared the stock’s gain this year to 7.1 percent, valuing
the publisher at 4.32 billion euros ($5.5 billion).  Chinese Expansion  McKinstry outlined plans in August to expand Wolters
Kluwer’s workforce in  China  by 17 percent in the following six
months because of expected growth in the country’s health and
legal industries. Asia accounted for 4.8 percent of the
publisher’s  sales  in 2011, compared with 50 percent from  North
America  and 38 percent from Europe outside the Netherlands.  The Dutch company is confident of achieving a ratio of net
debt to earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and
amortization of 2.5 times this year, McKinstry said in the
interview.  Reed Elsevier, the owner of the LexisNexis database, has
been disposing of trade magazines and is seeking to grow at its
remaining businesses. The London-based publisher sold Hollywood
trade journal  Variety  last month and has put Australian titles
in the market.  ‘Organic Growth’  “We don’t have any targets or budgets for acquisitions,”
CEO Erik Engstrom said in an interview at the Barcelona
conference. “We have an organic growth strategy and we only
supplement that with selective acquisitions when they can
accelerate our strategy and we can do so with good returns in
places where we are natural owners.”  Completed and planned disposals will be “mildly dilutive”
to earnings per share in the short term,  Reed Elsevier  said in
July. To counter that effect, the company has set aside 250
million pounds ($396 million) to finance share buybacks this
year, it said on Nov. 8.  Reed Elsevier dropped as much as 1.2 percent to 613.5 pence
at 9:28 a.m. in  London . The stock has gained 18 percent this
year, valuing the company at 7.4 billion pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Barcelona at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  