-- My Name Is Uncle Sam, and I’m a Debt-aholic
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-11-14T23:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/my-name-is-uncle-sam-and-i-m-a-debt-a-holic.html
Fix the  debt . It’s a lot harder than
it sounds.  Earlier this year, a group of longtime deficit hawks came
together to try to accomplish what has eluded their predecessors
for so long. Unveiled at the  National Press Club  in  Washington 
on July 17, the group had a new name (the  Campaign to Fix the
Debt ), some old faces (Erskine Bowles,  Alan Simpson ,  Pete Peterson ,  Alice Rivlin ), and all of the familiar platitudes
associated with previous efforts to put the  federal budget  on a
sustainable path: a “non-partisan coalition” working to
replace “temporary patches” with a “comprehensive solution”
that will “grow the economy” and “protect the most
vulnerable.”  Pretty soon, chief executive officers of major U.S.
companies were signing on: folks like Dave Cote of Honeywell,
 Andrew Liveris  of Dow Chemical and  Duncan Niederauer  of NYSE
Euronext. By the end of October, the number of business leaders
had grown to 100. The campaign had a steering committee, a
 citizen’s petition , a budget of $40 million and a set of  core
principles , starting with the recognition that “our growing
debt is a serious threat to the economic well-being and security
of the  United States .”  It sounds a lot like a 12-step program for Debtors
Anonymous, minus the Higher Power stuff.  First Mover  I don’t mean to belittle the campaign’s noble intentions.
Faced with  automatic tax increases  and spending cuts on Jan. 1,
President  Barack Obama  and Congress need all the support, and
cover, they can get to negotiate a short-term fix with enough
enforcement mechanisms to produce a long-term solution. I’m just
wondering why this time is different.  For example, Democrats and Republicans already agree on, or
pay lip service to, a “core principle” of  tax reform :
something that simplifies the  tax code  and raises revenue by
broadening the base and eliminating loopholes that exceed $1
trillion annually. So why are they still talking about it 46
days from the fiscal cliff?  Answer: Because agreeing on principles isn’t the same as
closing a deal. To the 100 CEOs who insist “everything is on
the table,” where is one -- just one -- who says “here, take
this off my plate?”  Jeffrey Immelt , CEO of  General Electric Co. (GE) , has signed on
to the Campaign to Fix the Debt and was among those who met with
the president Nov. 14. GE maintains a  975-person tax department ,
and it isn’t to dot the I’s and cross the T’s on the corporate
income-tax return. The reason for the army of lawyers and
accountants is to exploit the  tax code  to minimize the company’s
 tax liability . And they do a darn-good job!  I participated in two conference calls sponsored by the
Campaign to Fix the Debt. On the Oct. 25 call, I asked
Honeywell’s Cote if the CEOs gathered to ring the opening bell
at the  New York  Stock Exchange that day would sign a pledge to
forgo all lobbying that benefited their particular company and
industry.  “We all signed a pledge not to sign any pledges,” Cote
said, to background laughter.  On the Nov. 8 call, I asked a similar question. After
commending the CEOs for their effort, I wanted to know what
exactly they proposed to do. Actions, not words. Call it first-
mover disadvantage.  Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a
Responsible  Federal Budget  and a leader of the Fix the Debt
campaign, said she was “encouraged by the level of outreach”
on the part of business leaders, who are willing “to sacrifice
for the good of the country.”  Sacrificial Lambs  I still wasn’t hearing much about the “do” part. To what
extent are CEOs, who are accountable to their shareholders and
focused on their stock price, willing to “put national interest
ahead of special interests,” one of the key bullet points in
the citizen’s petition?  For that matter, how many of the ordinary Americans signing
on to the Fix the Debt initiative want to sacrifice their
mortgage-interest deduction or exemption for employer-provided
health-care benefits? There is a constituency for every
loophole. More than half the lobbying in this country is related
to the tax code, which is just one of the many reasons to strip
it down to its bare essentials, like a couple of flat rates.  Based on past efforts, and limited success, in attacking
deductions and exemptions, the best we can probably hope for is
something Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  proposed:
a  cap on itemized deductions  for high-income earners. If that’s
what reform looks like, the tax code will continue to encourage
inefficient behavior to the detriment of the economy.  Both sides have staked out their positions in the wake of
the Nov. 6 election. The president said he will veto any
extension of the Bush-era tax cuts that includes households
making more than $250,000 a year. Republican House and Senate
leaders, who are scheduled to meet with the president Nov. 16,
are open to increasing revenues, not  marginal tax rates .  So there it stands. Will the support of business leaders be
enough to break the logjam? In a telephone interview this week,
MacGuineas said the CEOs realize that the nation needs to make
major changes in the budget “on our own terms before it’s
forced upon us” by the markets. After all, nothing would
concentrate the mind on  fiscal deficits  like soaring  interest
rates .  Absent that sense of urgency, it will take shared
sacrifice, to borrow a phrase from Obama, to solve the nation’s
budget issues. There may be no “I” in team, but there’s a lot
of “ego” in CEO.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on a  tax compromise both parties
can live with  and on  how to fund oversight of nonprofit groups ;
 Michael Kinsley  on why TV insists on  Election Night suspense ;
 Ezra Klein  on why  tax reform won’t live up to its billing ;
Jonathan Mahler in defense of  John Calipari and the one-season
collegiate basketball career ; Tim Weiner on echoes  of dark FBI
history in the David Petraeus scandal .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 