-- Yen Falls to 6-Month Low as Japan’s Abe Calls for Easing
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-11-15T22:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-14/yen-trades-near-week-low-on-election-risk-euro-drops.html
The yen slumped to the lowest in
more than six months against the dollar on speculation Japanese
elections next month will hand power to an opposition party that
advocates more aggressive monetary easing.  The dollar declined against the euro for a second day as
U.S. jobless claims rose and a regional manufacturing index
decreased amid the devastation left by  Hurricane Sandy .  Japan ’s
currency weakened against all of its 16 most-traded counterparts
on speculation the vote will favor Shinzo Abe, who called for
the central bank to provide unlimited stimulus. The pound fell
to a 10-week low versus the dollar as data showed U.K. retail
sales slid.  “There are new pressures for policy members to potentially
engage in easing to boost inflation and domestic growth,” Ravi Bharadwaj, a market analyst in  Washington  at Western Union
Business Solutions, a unit of  Western Union Co. (WU) , said in a
telephone interview. “That expectation for a lax policy is
causing markets to double down on other investments instead of
focusing on the yen.”  The yen dropped 1.2 percent to 81.17 per dollar at 5 p.m.
 New York  time, after touching 81.46, the weakest level since
April 25. It depreciated 1.5 percent to 103.75 per euro after
losing as much as 1.8 percent, the most since Sept. 14.  Europe ’s
shared currency rose 0.4 percent to $1.2781.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback versus six
major peers, was little changed at 81.032.  Pound, Aussie  The greenback may struggle to rise above a key technical
level at 81.49 yen, Credit Suisse Group AG said, citing
technical indicators. Should the dollar appreciate beyond that
resistance level, where sell orders may be clustered, it may
rise to the 81.87 level reached on April 10, London-based
analyst Cilline Bain said today in a telephone interview.  Britain’s pound fell for a second day against the euro
after data showed retail sales including fuel dropped 0.8
percent in October from September, when they gained a revised
0.5 percent. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 0.1 percent decline.  Sterling fell 0.2 percent to 80.55 pence per euro after
touching 80.65, the weakest since Oct. 31. It rose 0.2 percent
to $1.5867 after falling to $1.5829, the lowest since Sept. 5.  Australia’s dollar declined against all of its major peers
except the yen after the nation’s  Reserve Bank  said it increased
sales of the currency last month to a category of buyers that
includes foreign central banks.  ‘More Chatter’  The RBA sold A$483 million ($500 million) more in local
currency than it bought in October through the so-called other
outright transactions category, the most since June 2009,
according to data released today.  “There will likely be more chatter that the RBA is perhaps
conducting off-market, central bank-to-central  bank
transactions ,” said Emma Lawson, a Sydney-based foreign-
exchange strategist at National Australia Bank Ltd.  The Aussie slid 0.4 percent to $1.0332.  The dollar weakened as applications for  jobless benefits 
surged by 78,000 to 439,000 in the week ended Nov. 10, the most
since April 2011, the Labor Department said today in Washington.
Several states said the increase was due to the storm that hit
the Northeastern part of the U.S. in late October.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index decreased to minus 10.7 in November from 5.7 a month
earlier. A reading of zero is the dividing line between
expansion and contraction in the area covering eastern
 Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware , which was hard
hit by Sandy.  Fiscal Cliff  A separate report showed the consumer-price index rose 0.1
percent, matching the median estimate of 83 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg, following a 0.6 percent gain the prior month, the
Labor Department reported today in Washington.  The yen will fall to 87 versus the dollar by the end of
2013 on an improved outlook for U.S. growth once the fiscal
cliff and debt ceiling are resolved, Kit Juckes, head of
foreign-exchange research at Societe Generale SA in  London , said
in a research note.  If Congress doesn’t act by the end of the year, $607
billion in automatic spending cuts and tax increases are
scheduled to take effect starting in January, while the $16.4
trillion debt ceiling must be raised before it’s reached early
next year for the nation to continue to borrow.  ‘Prolonged Deflation’  Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  will dissolve
parliament tomorrow, triggering an election that polls show his
 Democratic Party  of Japan will lose. The vote for the lower
house will be held on Dec. 16, acting DPJ secretary-general Jun Azumi said yesterday.  “The biggest economic problem is prolonged  deflation  and a
strong yen,” Abe, the head of the largest opposition  Liberal
Democratic Party , said in a speech in  Tokyo  today. “Markets
will only start to react once unlimited monetary easing is
conducted.”  Abe made a “a forceful statement that reinforces the
likelihood of ongoing political pressure on the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to
weaken the yen,” Dan Dorrow, head of research in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , at Faros Trading LLC, said in a telephone
interview. “They’re going to keep on doing stuff until the
intermediate target for the yen goes weaker.”  In the euro area, data showed the economy slipped into a
recession for the second time in four years.  Gross domestic product in the region slipped 0.1 percent in
the third quarter after a 0.2 percent decline in the previous
three months, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today. From the year-earlier period, GDP dropped
0.6 percent.  The yen has fallen 6.8 percent this year, the worst
performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro dropped 2.6
percent and the dollar declined 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  