-- ‘Ice Age’ Is Top Weekend Film With Sales of $46 Million
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g
-- 2012-07-16T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/-ice-age-opens-as-top-weekend-film-with-sales-of-46-million.html
“Ice Age: Continental Drift,” the
fourth film in the animated series from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth
Century Fox, opened in first place in U.S. and Canadian
theaters with $46 million in sales.  “The Amazing Spider-Man” came in second with $35 million
in receipts for  Sony Corp. (6758) , researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office 
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “Ice Age: Continental Drift” faced little fresh
competition as the only new film opening in wide release this
past weekend. The previous installments of the series, about
four prehistoric creatures who embark on adventures, took in
more than $2.1 billion in worldwide ticket sales from three
previous pictures, according to industry researcher
Hollywood.com.  “Hollywood right now is absolutely focusing on franchises,
sequels, stories that have proven themselves over time,” said
 Paul Sweeney , a media and entertainment analyst for Bloomberg
Industries. While the weekend’s top film “came in a little
below expectations, it’s still a pretty solid number.”  Domestic ticket-sales forecasts for “Ice Age: Continental
Drift” ranged from $48.5 million at Box Office Mojo to as much
as $56 million, the prediction of Box Office Guru. The second
film in the franchise, “Ice Age: The Meltdown,” opened with
$68 million in sales and the third film, “Ice Age: Dawn of the
Dinosaurs,” brought in $41.7 million in its opening weekend,
according to researcher Hollywood.com.  ‘Amazing Spider-Man’  The fourth installment follows Manny, Sid, Diego and Scrat
on an adventure after their continent is set adrift, caused by
Scrat’s pursuit of the acorn he’s been after for each of the
previous three films.  Ray Romano  and Denis Leary star. John Leguizamo and Queen Latifah co-star.  “The Amazing Spider-Man” has now collected $200.9 million
in domestic sales in two weekends, according to Hollywood.com.
The film revives a franchise that took in $2.55 billion in
worldwide ticket sales from three previous pictures, according
to researcher Box Office Mojo. The latest picture was made for
about $230 million, the researcher said.  This installment features a new cast, with U.K.-raised
Andrew Garfield replacing Tobey Maguire in the title role.
Garfield portrays the orphaned  Peter Parker , nursing a crush on
high-school classmate Gwen Stacy while trying to unravel the
mystery behind his parents’ disappearance. A visit to a high-
tech research laboratory results in a spider bite that endows
him with extraordinary powers.  Emma Stone  is featured as Gwen.  Martin Sheen  and Sally
Field co-star as Peter’s Uncle Ben and Aunt May.  ‘Brave’  “Ted,” the R-rated comedy from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal
Pictures , came in third with sales of $22.1 million.  Mark Wahlberg  and Mila Kunis star in the movie about a man whose
teddy bear comes to life as a result of a childhood wish. He
must choose whether to stay with his girlfriend or keep his
friendship with the foul-mouthed toy.  In “Brave,” the fourth-highest grossing film with sales
of $10.7 million, a rebellious princess Merida prefers riding
horses and archery to the sedentary duties of a princess. Her
refusal to hew to a traditional role at the royal court leads to
unforeseen consequences that place her family in jeopardy.  “Magic Mike,” featuring  Channing Tatum  in a film about
the seedy world of male strippers, came in fifth, generating
$9.03 million in sales for  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 39 percent to
$151.9 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Domestic film sales this year have risen 7 percent to $6.05
billion, with attendance up 9 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for July
13 and July 14 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Blessing in New York at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  