-- Abu Dhabi Exports First Pipeline Oil Bypassing Hormuz
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-07-16T08:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/abu-dhabi-exports-first-pipeline-oil-to-pakistani-refinery-1-.html
Abu Dhabi  started exporting its
first crude from a pipeline that bypasses the Strait of Hormuz,
shipping the fuel from the neighboring sheikhdom of Fujairah to
a refinery in Pakistan.  The link, stretching from Abu Dhabi to Fujairah on the Gulf
of Oman, began loading a shipment of about 500,000 barrels,
Mohamed Al-Hamli, oil minister for the  United Arab Emirates ,
said yesterday at the inauguration ceremony. International
Petroleum Investment Co. spent $4.2 billion building the 423-
kilometer (263-mile) link, Managing Director Khadem al-Qubaisi
said at the ceremony in Fujairah.  Abu Dhabi, the U.A.E.’s capital and holder of more than 90
percent of its oil, built the export route for crude to avoid
Hormuz, a narrow waterway carrying a fifth of the world’s traded
oil that  Iran  has threatened to block in retaliation for
sanctions targeting the country’s nuclear program. Construction
costs were 27 percent higher than the $3.3 billion contract
awarded to China Petroleum Engineering & Construction Corp. in
2008 and was delayed by 11 months.  “The pipeline will get used if they keep the price to load
crude from Fujairah the same as loading from inside the Gulf,”
said Robin Mills, head of consulting at Dubai-based Manaar
Energy Consulting and Project Management. “It means that Abu
Dhabi is just swallowing the cost of the pipeline, as it has
been built for strategic reasons. If this was a commercial
venture, they would have built it years ago.”  Political Maneuvering  An Iranian lawmaker, Mohammad-Hassan Asferi, said yesterday
the pipeline’s limited capacity would keep it from obviating the
need of regional suppliers to export most of their oil through
the strait. The line is “propaganda and political maneuvering
guided by the Western countries, especially the  United States ,
which aims to reduce the strategic importance of the  Strait of
Hormuz ,” according to state-run Press TV. Asferi serves on
Iran’s national security and foreign policy committee.  The link can transport 1.5 million barrels a day of Murban
crude from Habshan, a collection point for Abu Dhabi’s onshore
oil fields, across a desert and mountains to Fujairah. The
system can pump as much as 1.8 million barrels a day at periodic
intervals, officials said yesterday. The U.A.E., the fifth-
biggest oil producer in OPEC, pumped 2.61 million barrels a day
in June, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  The first oil exported from Fujairah is priced the same as
 Murban crude  loaded inside the Gulf, three people with knowledge
of the matter said this month. Abu Dhabi may later devise a
separate formula including a premium to account for the cost of
using the pipeline, said the people, declining to be identified
because the matter is confidential. Abu Dhabi officials
yesterday did not comment on pricing.  First Cargo  Abu Dhabi’s first export cargo from Fujairah is destined
for Pak Arab Refinery Ltd., a joint venture between  Pakistan ’s
government and IPIC, Al-Qubaisi said. IPIC owns a 40 percent
stake in the plant, which regularly uses about 40,000 barrels a
day of Abu Dhabi crude, of the 100,000 barrels it consumes
daily, he said.  Abu Dhabi earlier shipped a test cargo from Fujairah to its
own refinery at Ruwais, inside the  Persian Gulf , said Abdul
Munim Al-Kindi, general manager of Abu Dhabi Co. for Onshore Oil
Operations. As the main oil producer at the emirate’s onshore
fields, the company, known as Adco, will operate the pipeline
and gradually ramp up capacity by year-end, he said. The network
is designed to load tankers at three offshore buoys, he said.
IPIC will likely charge Adco “a few cents per barrel” for use
of the pipeline, Al-Qubaisi said.  Alternative Route  Al-Hamli, the oil minister, said the link gives buyers an
alternative location from which to receive crude. It will allow
them to fill very large crude carriers, or VLCCs, the largest
class of tanker capable of carrying 2 million barrels of oil.
Filling such vessels in the  Gulf of Oman  will reduce shipping
traffic in Hormuz, he said.  “The pipeline is going to be beneficial because our
clients will be able to lift bigger cargoes,” he said.
“Currently you can only lift 1 million barrels a day from
Ruwais. From Fujairah now our clients now can bring in VLCCs and
lift more.”  IPIC’s al-Qubaisi said his company plans to $4 billion to
$5 billion to build a refinery in Fujairah with a capacity of
about 250,000 barrels a day to produce for local sale and
export, further enhancing the port’s importance as a hub for the
processing, storage and shipment of fuels. The company said in a
bond prospectus in October the refinery would produce 200,000
barrels a day at a cost of about $3.5 billion.  IPIC is working with another state-owned investment fund,
Mubadala Development Co., on a project for a terminal at the
port for imports of liquefied natural gas. Fujairah is already
among the world’s three biggest refueling ports for commercial
ships, along with Singapore and Rotterdam. Fujairah is one of
the U.A.E.’s seven sheikhdoms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  