-- Abu Dhabi Says BP Not Invited in June to Bid for Onshore Oil
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-07-15T12:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/abu-dhabi-says-bp-not-invited-in-june-to-bid-for-onshore-oil-1-.html
BP Plc (BP/)  wasn’t invited last month to
bid for onshore oilfield concessions in the  United Arab
Emirates , the head of state-run  Abu Dhabi  National Oil Co. said.  “They did not receive an invitation. They were not on the
list,” Abdulla Nasser Al Suwaidi, director general of Abu Dhabi
National Oil, told reporters today at the U.A.E. port of
Fujairah. His company, known as Adnoc, sent letters in June to
“many” potential bidders other than BP, he said. “We had a
big list, and we sent them all.”  BP said last week it was still in talks with Abu Dhabi
about renewing rights to produce oil in the Middle Eastern
emirate, after a report indicated the company had been excluded
from negotiations. “Constructive discussions are taking place
at all levels,” David Nicholas, a BP spokesman, said July 6.  BP, Exxon Mobil Corp.,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Total SA and
Partex Oil & Gas are shareholders in output from Abu Dhabi’s
main onshore oil fields, under concession agreements that the
international companies or their forebears have held since 1939.
Adnoc became a partner in the 1970s, forming  Abu Dhabi Co. for
Onshore Oil Operations , which has the rights for six main
deposits until 2014.
Abu Dhabi holds more than 90 percent of the crude in the U.A.E.,
  one of the few Middle Eastern countries that allow overseas
companies to explore for and produce oil within its borders. The
five foreign partners as well as other producers may participate
in bidding for Abu Dhabi’s 1.4 million barrel-a-day onshore oil  rights as current contracts expire.  BP may still be involved at a later date, according to
Abdul Munim Saif al-Kindy, the chief executive officer of Abu
Dhabi Co. for Onshore Oil Operations.  “The whole process is just starting, so we can’t be
definitive with anyone,” al-Kindy said in Fujairah. “Still,
everything is open.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 