-- Madrid Region to Sell 100 Office Buildings Amid Austerity
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-07-16T12:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/madrid-region-to-sell-100-office-buildings-amid-austerity.html
Madrid ’s regional  government  plans
to sell 100 office buildings in the center of the Spanish
capital over three years to cut its deficit and pay for services
as the country makes its deepest budget cuts on record.  “We’re not a real estate company,” said Jose Luis Moreno Casas, the government official who is overseeing the sales.
“Our job is to ensure there is adequate health care, education
and mobility for our people.”  Spanish regional governments control more than a third of
public spending and play a key role in cutting the national
government deficit, part of Spain’s vow to meet the conditions
of a 100 billion-euro ($122 billion) rescue package for the
nation’s banks. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  announced a third
round of spending cuts this year on July 11 to shear 65 billion
euros from the deficit and avoid a second bailout as rising
borrowing costs threaten to shut Spain out of credit markets.  Sales proceeds will be used to provide for residents and
trim the Madrid region’s  budget  shortfall, which reached 2.2
percent of regional gross domestic product in 2011, according to
Moreno, director of policy for finance, treasury and assets. The
goal is to reduce that to 1 percent of GDP by 2014, he said in
an interview in Madrid.  The first 15 properties to go on sale have a total value of
62 million euros, according to  Tinsa ,  Spain  biggest appraisals
company. The terms of the auction will be made public by the end
of July and investors will have four months to submit bids,
according to Moreno.  ‘Liquidation Operation’  “We have hundreds of buildings we can sell, but we want to
start our real estate liquidation operation with the better
assets,” Moreno said.  While Madrid is right to market the properties in
digestible packages, the assets still may not be attractive to
investors because of Spain’s perceived risks, according to Simon Martin, head of research and investment strategy at Tristan
Capital Partners, a real estate investment company in  London 
with 4 billion euros of assets under management.  “There is no credit available right now for Spain, given
the risk perception of the country,” said Martin, who isn’t
looking to invest in the assets being sold. “Assets will need
to be high quality and very cheap relative to  price levels 
elsewhere before international investors will take part in a
sale process.”  Valuable Properties  The more valuable properties earmarked for sale include a
2,524 square-meter (27,100 square foot) office building in Calle
Jose Abascal in Madrid’s upscale Chamberi district valued at
about 10 million euros and a 12,300 square meter office building
in the Arguelles district of the city with 192 below-ground
parking spaces that is worth 12 million euros, according to
Moreno.  “We’ve received interest from open-ended German funds and
British, American and Swiss property funds,” Moreno said.
“Domestic interest has come from pension funds, real estate
investment companies and insurers.”  The regional government will hold a presentation in
September for Russian and Chinese investors who have inquired
about the sales, Moreno said. He declined to identify the
interested parties because the bidding is confidential.  The first properties will be sold in November and
thereafter batches of buildings will be marketed for auction
every four months. The properties could be sold at a discount of
15 percent to 30 percent, Moreno said.  Slow Market  The deals will encourage investment in Madrid offices by
setting a reference point in a market where transactions have
nearly ground to a halt, according to Moreno. Only five sales of
commercial property closed in Madrid and  Barcelona , Spain’s two
largest office markets, in the first half, according to Madrid-
based property consultant Aguirre Newman. One transaction, the
purchase of the Picasso Tower in Madrid by real estate
investment company Pontegadea Inmobiliaria, accounted for 76
percent of 523 million euros in deal volume, the firm said.  Office take up in Madrid fell 15 percent in the first half
from a year earlier and average rents fell 4.2 percent,
according to Aguirre Newman. Rent for the best offices declined
to 24.5 euros a square meter, down 10 percent over the past 12
months, the consulting firm said.  Madrid is considering selling hospital buildings, schools,
universities and retirement homes in the later phases of the
three-year plan, according to Moreno. The city government owns
36 hospitals, 1,700 schools and 40 retirement homes, he said.  Outright Sales  The regional government will sell its properties outright
and individually, rather than in lots or under long-term leases,
to make the sales more attractive to investors, Moreno said.  Public-sector property sales in Europe rose to 2.3 billion
euros last year from 1.1 billion in 2010, with Germany, the
Netherlands, Sweden, Russia, the U.K. and France accounting for
75 percent of the total, according to research from CBRE Group
Inc.  Greece  in April 2011 said it would seek to raise 50 billion
euros from state assets, half of which is real estate, to meet
conditions of its bailout. It has only brought in 1.8 billion
euros so far, mainly from the sale of non-real estate assets as
investors shy away from property offered under long-term leases.  Catalonia in January rejected a bid by Och-Ziff Management
Europe Ltd. and Moor Park  Capital Partners  for a batch of 26
buildings including the Barcelona stock market because the offer
was too low. The government now plans to sell the properties in
smaller lots.  Andalusia hired  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  last year to help raise at
least 400 million euros selling 76 properties, including the
cultural department in Granada and youth centers in Malaga. It
offered to pay about 30 million euros a year to lease the
buildings after their sale. No deal was reached.  “They made the mistake of bundling good assets with bad
into lots and investors shunned them because the bad assets
contaminated the good ones,” Moreno said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 