-- South African Wins Top African Union Post in Divisive Vote
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-07-16T15:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/african-union-elects-south-africa-s-dlamini-zuma-commission-head.html
African Union  leaders elected South
African Home Affairs Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma as the
first woman to lead the body’s commission, ending a divisive
six-month stalemate over who would get the job.  Delegates cheered when Dlamini-Zuma, a former wife of South
African President  Jacob Zuma , won 37 of the 51 votes after four
rounds of balloting at the group’s Chinese-built headquarters
yesterday in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa. Dlamini-Zuma,
63, served as foreign minister for a decade through 2009, when
she became home affairs minister.  “We’re looking forward to her bringing dynamism to it and
she’ll make a difference and make us a more effective and
responsive organization,” Liberian President Ellen Johnson- Sirleaf said today in an interview. “Women bring a certain
amount of strong commitment and passion to what they do and I
expect her to do that.”  Neither Dlamini-Zuma nor incumbent  Jean Ping  of Gabon were
able to win the required two-thirds majority in January to head
the African Union’s executive arm. The impasse undermined the
54-nation group’s ability to deal with crises such as military
coups in Mali and Guinea-Bissau, renewed conflict between  Sudan 
and South Sudan and growing attacks by militant Islamist groups
in northern  Nigeria  and the Sahel region.  ‘Key Issues’  “The issue has been hugely destructive; now we can get
back to key issues,” Jakkie Cilliers, the executive director of
the Pretoria-based Institute for Security Studies, said in an
interview after the vote. Dlamini-Zuma “will bring strong
leadership,” he said. “I don’t think she’ll be a divisive
figure at all.”  Dlamini-Zuma received strong backing from  South Africa ,
which has the continent’s biggest economy, and governments from
the 15-member  Southern African Development Community .  “It means a lot for  Africa , for the continent, unity and
the empowerment of women,” President Zuma said in an interview
as he left the voting chamber. “Lobbying always pays off.”  Benin’s President Yayi Boni, the current chairman of the
African Union, warned member states earlier in the day that
“another failure will split this continent and it’s going to
tarnish the image of our continent.”  Sudan Oil  The presidents of Sudan and South Sudan met for more than
an hour at the summit and agreed to pursue talks to end their
disputes over oil transit fees, borders and citizenship rights
that took them to the brink of war in April and prompted a
threat of United Nations sanctions against them.  South Sudan, which gained independence last year, shut down
its 350,000 barrels a day of oil production after it accused
President Umar al-Bashir’s government in Sudan of stealing $815
million worth of crude. Sudan said it was taken to pay unpaid
transportation fees.  The  African Union  also agreed on a plan to restore civilian
rule and national unity in  Mali , where Touareg separatists and
Islamist rebels seized control in the north after the military
overthrew President Amadou Toure on March 22.  While the Touareg insurgents declared independence in
April, Islamist rebels of the Ansar ud-Din group have been
destroying historic mausoleums in Timbuktu that they regard as
idolatrous and seized the cities of Gao and Kidal.  Mali Unity  African states will “spare no effort” to maintain the
unity of Mali, the third-biggest gold miner, AU Peace and
Security Commissioner Ramtane Lamamra told reporters on July 14.  The African Union has sent a mission to spend two weeks in
the capital, Bamako, to meet a UN request to gather more
information before it endorses an African-led military
intervention, he said.  Leaders from nine central African countries also backed a
rapprochement between Rwanda and  Democratic Republic  of Congo,
which accuses its eastern neighbor of supporting a rebellion
along their mutual border.  Congolese President  Joseph Kabila  and his Rwandan
counterpart,  Paul Kagame , met for the first time since the
mainly ethnic Tutsi soldiers in Congo’s North Kivu province
deserted the army and took control of several parts of the
province, forcing 220,000 people to flee their homes. Rwanda
denies allegations by the UN Group of Experts that it’s
supporting the rebel group, known as the M23.  The mood between Kabila and Kagame, who have repeatedly
been involved in cross-border disputes, was “excellent” and
“amicable,” Ugandan President  Yoweri Museveni  said in an
interview after the meeting. They will meet again next month in
 Uganda ’s capital, Kampala, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  