-- Angels Beat Yankees to Avoid Sweep as Mets’ Skid Hits Four Games
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-16T04:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/angels-hold-off-yankees-10-8-to-avoid-three-game-series-sweep.html
The  Los Angeles Angels  withstood
four home runs and a ninth-inning rally to beat the New York
Yankees 10-8 and avoid a three-game series sweep.  Angels starting pitcher Jered Weaver won his fifth straight
start and improved his record to 11-1 on the season even though
he allowed 10 hits and five earned runs yesterday at Yankee
Stadium.  Erick Aybar and  Albert Pujols  hit first-inning home runs
for the Angels, while Mark Trumbo hit his sixth homer against
the Yankees this season. Trumbo tied the franchise record for
most homers against New York in a season set by Lee Thomas in
1962 and matched by Brian Downing in 1988.  Alex Rodriguez ,  Curtis Granderson ,  Eric Chavez  and Mark Teixeira hit homers for the Yankees, who had a three-game Major
League Baseball winning streak snapped. The Yankees scored three
runs in the bottom of the ninth inning and had the bases loaded
before Rodriguez popped up to end the game.  The New York Mets dropped their fourth straight game,
losing 6-1 to Atlanta as the Braves’ Ben Sheets pitched six
shutout innings in his first major-league start in two years.  Freddie Freeman hit a three-run homer in a six-run fifth
inning for the Braves, who have won a season-high seven games in
a row.  The Detroit Tigers beat the Baltimore Orioles 4-0 yesterday
as  Justin Verlander  tossed eight scoreless innings in his first
start since allowing five first-inning runs in the American
League’s loss in the All-Star Game.  Stephen Strasburg  picked up his 10th win of the season,
pitching six shutout innings in the Washington Nationals’ 4-0
win over the Miami Marlins. In other NL games, it was Milwaukee
4, Pittsburgh 1; the Chicago Cubs 3, Arizona 1; Philadelphia 5,
Colorado 1; San Francisco 3, Houston 2; the San Diego Padres 7,
Los Angeles Dodgers 2; and Cincinnati 4, St. Louis 2.  In the American League, it was Boston 7, Tampa Bay 3; Texas
4, Seattle 0; Toronto 3, Cleveland 0; and the Chicago White Sox
2, Kansas City 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  