-- Anti-AIDS Pill Out of Sex-Worker Reach in Push for Cure
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e   a n d   T o n y   J o r d a n
-- 2012-07-16T17:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/anti-aids-pill-out-of-sex-worker-reach-in-push-for-cure.html
In a Bangkok go-go bar, a prostitute
in a transparent miniskirt who goes by the name “Joy” said
she’s ready to benefit from one of the biggest scientific
breakthroughs in the 30-year fight against AIDS.  The 23-year-old sex worker says she’d like the chance to
use  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s pill Truvada to help protect her from
becoming one of the 530,000 people in  Thailand  with HIV.  “I am scared,” she said, during a break at the bar. “I
want to find a husband. If it works, I’ll take it.”  Truvada, a staple of treatment for patients with HIV, was
approved today in the U.S. to lessen the risk of infection in
healthy people by as much as 94 percent when taken regularly. As
researchers struggle to develop an AIDS vaccine, having a daily
pill to block the virus could be a crucial interim step to rein
in the disease. Yet rather than celebrating Truvada’s
effectiveness, global health planners are now facing a difficult
moment of soul searching over how to allocate limited resources.  “On the surface it’s something amazing, you can prevent
HIV with a pill,” said Kevin  Robert Frost , chief executive
officer of  amfAR , The Foundation for AIDS Research. “But then
you start to dig deeper and it gets really complicated. When I
get to the question of who pays for this I am completely
dumbfounded. In  developing countries , most of them can’t afford
to give pills to those who are HIV positive.”  Treatment Cost  The human immunodeficiency virus, which can cripple the
body’s immune system if left untreated, killed 1.8 million
people in 2010. Of the estimated 15 million who needed
treatment, just 6.6 million in low- and middle-income countries
received the cocktail of drugs that can prolong lives and lower
the virus to undetectable levels, according to  UNAIDS , the UN’s
program on HIV/AIDS. To get the drugs to those already infected
would cost $6 billion on top of the $16 billion spent fighting
the virus last year, UNAIDS said.  This weekend, more than 20,000 activists and researchers
will gather in  Washington  for the first  International AIDS
Conference  to be held in the U.S. in 22 years. Much of the focus
of the weeklong conference will be on preventing the more than
7,000 HIV infections a day worldwide, and discussion will center
on how to put the latest breakthroughs, including Truvada, into
action in the regions where they are most needed.  Francois Venter, deputy executive director at the  Wits
Reproductive Health and HIV Institute  in Johannesburg, said he
was “blown away” when researchers reported in 2010 that
Truvada cut the risk of healthy people contracting the virus.
Since then, though, he said he has been able to prescribe it as
a preventative to only a few patients who can afford the $480-a-
year cost. In  South Africa , where almost 1 in 3 people live on
less than  $2 a day , the drug is out of reach for most, he said.  Reaching Everyone  “In a general epidemic like ours, we need interventions
that can be used by the general population,” said Venter, who
works in South Africa where  5.6 million people  are infected. “I
don’t know how you practically could do that.”  In the U.S., where the median  household income  is more than
$51,000 a year and the majority of people have health insurance,
the U.S  Food and Drug Administration  cleared marketing of the
drug for  prevention  as well as treatment. The FDA said Truvada
should be used along with other safe sex practices, like condoms
and counseling, and only in people confirmed to be HIV negative
who are at high risk of getting the virus.  ‘Important Milestone’  “Today’s approval marks an important milestone in our
fight against HIV,” said FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  in a
statement. “New treatments as well as prevention methods are
needed to fight the HIV epidemic in this country.”  At the Fenway Institute in  Boston , doctors have been
studying the drug in gay men and gearing up for U.S. approval,
Ken Mayer, the center’s medical director, said earlier. About
50,000 people are newly infected with HIV yearly in the U.S.,
 according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in
Atlanta.   “There are people I take care of who are very high risk,”
Mayer said. “I do think this could be very effective in
protecting them from getting infected.”  To do the same in Africa and  Asia , though, could cost
billions of dollars.  In South Africa, where about  1 in 6 adults  ages 15 to 49
are infected, Venter said the entire population is at risk. Even
at the lowest price for the drug, $100 a year, it would cost
billions to give it to the 45 million people uninfected people
in the country.  Ethical Questions  “Huge chunks of Africa and Asia don’t have money to pay
for drugs for people already infected,” Venter said. “To put
prevention ahead of treatment isn’t ethically responsible, and
it doesn’t make sense from a financial viewpoint.”  Timothy Hallett , a researcher at  Imperial College London ,
said that in countries with a high incident rate, doctors would
have to treat at least 50 to 100 people to prevent one
infection.  In Kisumu,  Kenya , where 1 in 10 adults are infected,
Hallett and Imperial College researcher Ide Cremin  found  it
would cost $14,000 to $20,000 to prevent one infection, assuming
that half of all high-risk individuals were given Truvada.  Under that scenario, 13 percent of infections would be
averted over 10 years, he said.  “You can’t get away from the fact that these drugs are
quite expensive and there are all sorts of costs that go along
with it,” Hallett said in a telephone interview. The cost and
complexity of simply administering the drug to millions of
people would be difficult, he said.  Gilead’s Action  Gilead sells Truvada in the least-developed countries at no
profit and has given the rights to sell the drug to Indian
generic makers to help lower the price in 112 countries, said
Cara Miller, a spokeswoman for the  Foster City , California-based
company, the  world’s leading  maker of HIV drugs.  The treatment sells for as little as $8 a month in some
low-income countries, she said by e-mail.  Even if there were suddenly billions of dollars available
to supply Truvada, the drug won’t be a panacea, said  Michel
Alary , a professor at Universite Laval in  Quebec .  Some people won’t remember to take it every day, which is
necessary for it to be most effective. Irregular use of the drug
could result in HIV infection and foster development of
resistant strains of the virus, according to Alary.  Alary worries users may get a false sense of security if
they don’t understand the pill’s properties. If people cut back
on condom use without taking the pill daily, reducing its
protection, there could be a spike in infections, he said. He
wants governments to continue focusing the bulk of their
prevention efforts on condoms, for now.  “For me, it isn’t a magic bullet,” he said. “I don’t
think it should be a priority intervention. I think the priority
for preventing HIV among sex workers is to carry on with strong
condom promotion.”  Different Behavior  While “Joy,” the Bangkok bar worker, said she wouldn’t
have a problem remembering to take Truvada regularly if it was
available, daily use would be difficult for “Din” a 37-year-
old male prostitute who also works in that city.  Both workers asked that their full names not be used
because of the stigma attached to prostitution in  Thailand .  The man was involved in a study to see if sex workers would
be willing to take a daily pill or gel used before intercourse
for prevention. The study, which used a placebo rather than an
active drug, was conducted by the Thai Red Cross, which provided
access to him in a telephone interview.  Worrisome Perceptions  Din has been working in the sex trade for eight years,
since coming to Bangkok from the northern province of Udon
Thani, he said. He said he struggles to remember to take the
pill daily and didn’t like carrying it for fear someone would
see it and misunderstand its use.  “I know the pill is good for HIV protection, but it isn’t
so convenient because I have to take it every day,” said the
man, who doesn’t have AIDS and always uses a condom.  The  World Health Organization  plans to issue guidelines
recommending the use of Truvada as prevention for men who have
sex with men and couples where one partner is known to be
infected. The agency isn’t recommending use in sex workers yet
because it doesn’t have enough data showing it will benefit that
group and that sex workers will take it regularly, said
Gottfried Hirnschall, director of the WHO’s HIV department.  Concerns about cost and usage aren’t discouraging  Anthony Fauci , director of the National Institute of Allergy and
Infectious Disease in Bethesda,  Maryland , from trying to find a
way to use Truvada for prevention in the poorest countries.  Fauci said he heard similar fears a decade ago about the
 U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief , which provides
AIDS treatments to 3.9 million people. With a lot of work, those
issues were surmountable, he said.  “There is always going to be skepticism,” he said in a
telephone interview. “I’ve been through things before where
people said it was impossible, I’m not Pollyannaish about it,
but I am optimistic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Jordan in Bangkok at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  