-- Attacks on Romney Are ‘Chicago-Style Politics,’ Adviser Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-07-15T17:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/attacks-on-romney-are-chicago-style-politics-gillespie-says.html
Attacks on Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  over his role at Bain Capital Partners LLC
after he assumed management of the 2002 Olympics are “classic
Chicago-style politics,” senior Romney adviser  Ed Gillespie 
said.  “He was not involved in the management, was not involved
in the day-to-day decisions -- he wouldn’t have had time,”
Gillespie said today on CNN’s “ State of the Union ” program.
“He left a life he loved to go to  Salt Lake City  to save the
Olympics for a country he loves more” and took a “leave of
absence” from the firm.  The Boston Globe, in a July 12 report, said that Securities
and Exchange Commission filings showed Romney was identified as
the chief executive of Bain Capital three years after he said he
left the firm to run the 2002 Salt Lake City Olympics. SEC
filings also name him as one of two managing members of  Bain
Capital  Investors LLC in 2001 and 2002, Bloomberg News reported
July 13.  During that period, Bain completed a series of deals that
resulted in relocating jobs overseas and bankruptcies that led
to worker firings. Gillespie said Romney wasn’t part of that
decision-making as he was no longer at the firm.  “It is standard, though, while on leave, to sign those
documents for the SEC,” Gillespie said today on NBC’s “Meet
the Press.”  ‘Mitt Was Gone’  While Romney’s name may have legally been on Bain
documents, “Mitt was gone” running the Olympics and it took
several years for the management committee that took over to
negotiate the terms of his departure, former Bain Capital
partner Edward Conard said on  MSNBC  today.  The negotiations were “very complicated” because all the
partners were involved and Romney and his lawyers were hard to
reach, Conard said today on MSNBC’s “Up with Chris Hayes.”
Romney was the first to leave the partnership, so his terms
would set the standard for other departures from the company,
Conard said.  Romney was “never there” during the meetings on
investment decisions, Conard said.  Romney, speaking during a series of television interviews
July 13, called the attacks from the Democratic Obama campaign
“disgusting and demeaning.” The Republican candidate’s five-
show blitz on Friday was intended to “make sure people
understood he’s not a felon,” Gillespie said on CNN.  Obama’s Record  “They want to talk about anything but President Obama’s
dismal record when it comes to the economy, and it’s working,”
Gillespie, a former Republican National Committee chairman, said
on CNN.  Rahm Emanuel , Chicago mayor and former Obama White House
chief of staff, focused on Romney’s resistance to publishing
more of his tax returns. Speaking on ABC’s “This Week,”
Emanuel said Romney’s campaign seems to have decided it’s better
to get attacked for lack of transparency than to show what’s in
his returns.  Romney’s released tax filing, including multiple foreign
accounts, “looks more like the Olympic Village than it does
like a middle-class family,” Emanuel said.  “Next four years, the president of the  United States  is
going to have  tax reform , and you’re going to have to debate it
with Congress and shape it,” Emanuel said on ABC. “Will it be
a middle-class family’s desire to save to send their kid to
college or protecting the loophole in the  Cayman Islands ?”  Campaign Attacks  Senator  Kelly Ayotte , a Republican from  New Hampshire , said
on the ABC show that Obama campaign attacks on Bain Capital and
Romney’s tax returns show that Obama is “just a small
politician and running on small-ball politics at a time when our
country is facing grave, grave challenges.”  The Obama campaign is attempting to distract voters from
the president’s record of overseeing “the highest deficits and
biggest government since World War II, the worst jobs quarter in
two years and the highest poverty rates in a generation,” House
Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican,
said on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”  “People are not worried about the details as to when Mitt
Romney left Bain Capital to save the Olympics, or the details
about his assets, which are managed by a blind trust, for Pete’s
sake,” Ryan said.  Labor Department figures showed July 6 that the job market
is making little progress as payrolls expanded by a less-than-
forecast 80,000 in June. Excluding government agencies, private
hiring increased 84,000, the weakest in 10 months.  The  unemployment rate  held at 8.2 percent to mark the 41st
consecutive month that joblessness has remained above 8 percent
-- the longest stretch of such elevated levels in the post-World
War II era.  Florida Governor  Rick Scott , a Republican, said today on
“Fox News Sunday” that voters in November are not going to
“worry about some attack on Bain,” and will focus instead on
deciding which candidate has the best plan for creating jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net 
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey in Washington at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  