-- Australian Stock Futures Rise on China Stimulus Outlook
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-07-15T23:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/australian-stock-futures-rise-on-china-stimulus-outlook.html
Australian  stock futures  rose amid
speculation China may take more economic stimulus measures,
boosting the earnings outlook for companies that generate sales
in the Pacific nation’s biggest trading partner.  American Depositary Receipts of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s largest mining company, gained 1.3 percent. Shares of
 Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC)  may be active after a group led by
Australian  Nathan Tinkler  offered to buy the rest of the miner
at a 51 percent premium to its most recent closing price,
valuing the company at A$5.3 billion ($5.4 billion). ADRs of
 Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore oil producer, rose 0.8
percent as crude prices advanced for a fourth day.  Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 0.8
percent to 4,082 as of 6:59 a.m. in Sydney. Japan’s equity
markets are closed today for a public holiday. New Zealand’s NZX
50 Index rose 0.3 percent in Wellington.  “There remains significant capacity for China to stimulate
further,” said George Boubouras, Melbourne-based head of
investment strategy at UBS AG’s Australian wealth-management
unit. The Swiss bank has about $1.5 trillion in assets under
management. “This is not only from a monetary perspective,
which includes further rate cuts or lowering the reserve
required ratio again, but also the ability for additional
targeted fiscal stimulus.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent
today. The underlying gauge gained 0.2 percent last week as a
rally in  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and speculation China will boost
stimulus measures tempered concern about earnings and the global
economy. JPMorgan jumped 6.4 percent for the week as Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said the bank will probably post
record earnings for 2012 even after reporting a $4.4 billion
trading loss.  China Rates  China’s central bank may cut  interest rates  by as much as
one percentage point in the coming year to spur lending, the
swap market signals, as slowing industrial production and
exports cool the economy.  China needs to expand consumption and restructure the
economy, Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  said during an inspection tour
in central Hubei province, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported July 15. This comes two days after a report showed
China’s gross domestic product expanded 7.6 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace in three
years.  China’s Premier Wen Jiabao warned the momentum for a
recovery in  economic growth  isn’t yet in place and that
“difficulties” may persist for a while, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported.  ‘Bearing Fruit’  Even so, the current pace of economic expansion is within
the targeted range and government measures to stabilize growth
are “bearing fruit,” the premier said during an inspection
tour in southwest Sichuan province, according to Xinhua
yesterday. The article didn’t mention government policies for
the  property market .  China is facing downward pressure on economic growth and
will maintain “proactive” fiscal policy in 2012, the People’s
Bank of China said in its stability report on its website after
the close of  Hong Kong  and Chinese markets on July 13.  The  MSCI Asia-Pacific (MXAP)  fell 2.8 percent last week, the
largest weekly drop since May, amid concern slowing economic
growth from China and Korea to Australia will hurt corporate
profits.  Investors are demanding policymakers do more to stimulate
growth even after central banks in China, Europe, Taiwan,  South
Korea  and Brazil cut interest rates in the past fortnight to
bolster economies against the impact of Europe’s debt crisis and
the faltering recovery in the U.S.  Commodities Rise  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 11 percent from its 2012
high on Feb. 29 through July 13, paring this year’s gain to 1.3
percent. Shares in the measure are valued at 11.7 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.1 times for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 10.7 times for the Stoxx Europe
600 Index.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
climbed 1.3 percent July 13. West-Texas Intermediate crude oil
futures advanced 0.1 percent today, gaining for a fourth day.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in New York gained 1.3 percent to 87.77 on July
13, trimming its loss last week to 3.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  