-- Bank Bondholders Set to Face More Bail-In Pain: Chart of the Day
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-07-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/bank-bondholders-set-to-face-more-bail-in-pain-chart-of-the-day.html
Spanish investors won’t be the last
to suffer losses on bank debt as measures of sovereign and
financial bond risk signal governments will shift the burden of
rescuing failing lenders.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that the Markit iTraxx
Subordinated Financial Index is underperforming the Markit
iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index by the most since 2010, when
Ireland forced lower-ranking bondholders to share the cost of
saving its banking system. The gauge of credit-default swaps on
25 banks and insurers now exceeds the sovereign benchmark by
1.67 times, up from a ratio of one to one in March.  Bank debt risk is rising at a faster pace than that for
governments after  Spain  said it will require burden sharing
measures from holders of junior debt in lenders receiving public
funds. The move minimizes the cost to taxpayers and was required
as a condition for international aid.  “There is a growing risk of more subordinated bail-ins
elsewhere in peripheral countries,” said Georg Grodzki, the
London-based head of research at Legal & General Investment
Management Ltd., which manages $515 billion. The “roadmap” is
“burden sharing for subordinated debt holders,” he said.  Investors are speculating contracts linked to subordinated
bank debt will pay out should losses be imposed, as they did
when Ireland almost wiped out junior bondholders in exchange for
aid. Greece, Portugal and Cyprus also asked for support from the
European Union, and  Italy  is struggling to avoid a bailout as
the region’s crisis spreads.  Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  