-- Bezeq, Hot Gain as Fiber-Network Tender Deferred: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-07-15T14:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/bezeq-hot-gain-as-fiber-network-tender-deferred-tel-aviv-mover.html
Bezeq Israeli Telecommunication
Corp. (BEZQ)  and  Hot Telecommunication System Ltd. (HOT) , the country’s two
fixed-line providers, advanced after a panel postponed a tender
for a project aimed to boost competition.  Bezeq  shares  climbed as much as 2.6 percent before closing
0.5 percent higher at 4.36 shekels, the highest level since July
11. Shares of Yakum, Israel-based Hot, which also provides
internet, wireless and cable-television services, rose 3 percent
to 34.01 shekels, the highest since June 20. The benchmark TA-25
index dropped 0.8 percent.  A government panel postponed the deadline for submissions
to choose an investor and controlling shareholder in a fiber-to-
the-home (FTTH) telecommunications network project that will be
set up jointly with Israel Electric Corp.  “The postponement is good news for Bezeq as it raises the
odds the venture may not materialize, even if the government is
adamant to promote it,” Gilad Alper, a senior analyst at
Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd. in  Ramat Gan , said
today by phone.  Bezeq’s stock has dropped 36 percent so far this year and
is the third-worst performer in the benchmark  TA-25 index  as the
nation’s communications ministry moves to increase competition
in both the wireless and fixed-line markets in which it
operates. The government is seeking to introduce a “wholesale”
fixed-line market and a FTTH network, which would be set up by
Israel Electric and a company still to be selected, to compete
with existing fixed-line operators.  Hot has declined 28 percent this year, compared with a 2.5
percent decline for the market’s benchmark index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  