-- China Has Three Biggest Increases in Global Office Costs: CBRE
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-07-15T22:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/china-has-three-biggest-increases-in-global-office-costs-cbre.html
Business districts in Beijing and
Guangzhou had the biggest increases in office occupancy costs
globally in the first quarter, according to a report by  CBRE
Group Inc. (CBG) , the world’s largest commercial realtor.  Four other locations in the Asia-Pacific region --
Shanghai’s Pudong district, Jakarta, Sydney and Bangalore --
along with two areas in San Francisco, and Moscow, made up the
other top 10 spots, the Los Angeles-based company said. Two
areas in Beijing -- Jianguomen and the Finance Street -- topped
the survey with increases of 49 percent and 42 percent from a
year earlier. Guangzhou, southern China’s biggest city, was
third with a 40 percent gain.  Multi-national companies are expanding their footprint in
 emerging markets  to tap growing spending power in countries such
as China and India. Demand for prime  office space  in first-tier
cities in  China , the world’s fastest growing major economy, is
also being driven by a lack of new supply and the expansion of
domestic financial institutions, according to CBRE.  “People are really looking at China and Asia with a longer
term view,” Kim Mercado, a Hong Kong-based research director at
CBRE, said in an interview. “They’re saying they want to be
there and they want good quality space and also taking longer
leases as well.”  Hong Kong’s Central district, home to the world’s fourth
largest stock market, has the highest overall occupancy cost of
$248.83 per square foot a year. It is followed by London’s West
End, at $220.15, and Tokyo, at $186.49. Jianguomen in China’s
capital is fourth with $180.76.  Hong Kong  topped the chart even as occupancy costs there
showed the biggest decrease among the 133 global locations in
the survey. The city’s government has cut its economic growth
forecast for this year because of concerns over the  European
debt crisis  and a slowdown in  China’s economy .  Of the 15 biggest decreases in office costs, Spain
accounted for three, while Greece had two. Dublin, Zurich and
Sofia were also among the biggest decliners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  