-- Chuck Close, Bosco Sodi, Maria Baibakova: Hamptons Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-07-16T11:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/chuck-close-bosco-sodi-maria-baibakova-hamptons-scene.html
Pace Gallery President Marc Glimcher
and his wife, Andrea, rocked out to the Ramones’ “I Wanna Be
Sedated.”  It was 10:30 Saturday night in Southampton and the dance
floor was full at the  Parrish Art Museum  gala, a crush of white
linen, pink cotton and glistening skin.  Many of the 450 dinner guests had gone home, while 500
others in their 20s and 30s had started to arrive for an “After
10” party.  In the dessert-and-drinks tent,  Maria Baibakova , whose
nonprofit supports contemporary art in Moscow, chatted with
collector Richard Chang and art dealer  James Salomon .  In the dance tent, Kevin Miller swung around Victoria
Colyer, both in finance.  The Glimchers, who had earlier hosted Pace artists  Chuck Close  and  Bosco Sodi  at their table, jumped up and down like
true punk rock fans.  Until then, the evening, which raised $650,000, had been,
well, more sedate.  There were cameos at cocktail hour by designer Lisa Perry
and Glenn Fuhrman, co-founder of MSD Capital LP.  Fiona Rudin, chairman of the New Victory Theater in
 Manhattan , thrilled fashionistas with her prim Hamptons
translation of the look of the moment: a Yayoi Kusama/ Louis
Vuitton (MC)  red-and-white polka-dot purse with a Louis Vuitton white
dress, matching red cardigan and white shoes.  Birds of Paradise  A man who calls himself Di Mondo wore a Givenchy suit hand-
painted with birds of paradise.  At dinner, Terrie Sultan, the director of the museum,
presented bouquets of white lilies to six “creative spirits of
the East End,” referring to the eastern end of New York’s  Long
Island .  They included Close; the interior-design duo Tony Ingrao
and Randy Kemper; writer Barbara Goldsmith; choreographer  Paul Taylor ; musical theater and film choreographer Patricia Birch;
and guitarist G.E. Smith, the former “Saturday Night Live”
music director, who was absent because he was playing with Roger Waters in Philadelphia, a stop on “The Wall Live” tour.  “I’ve been here since 1960, hanging out with artists,”
Goldsmith said. “All of us used to sit on the dunes and play
chess. We’d inspire each other.”  How? “ Roy Lichtenstein  took things that were so common and
made them into something wonderful -- writing can be that,”
Goldsmith replied. “Larry Rivers taught me you can get away
with anything.”  New Building  Next year the Parrish gala will be held on the grounds of
the its new building in Watermill,  New York , which was designed
by Herzog & de Meuron and is opening in November.  Close toured the building earlier in the day. “It’s
fantastic,” he said.  “What draws artists here is the light. It bounces off the
ocean and then the clouds.”  He no longer has a home on the East End. “I’m building a
house in  Long Beach ,” he said.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographers for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Richard
Vines  on food.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  