-- Clinton Arrives in Israel to Discuss Iran, Syria, Egypt
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-07-16T10:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/clinton-arrives-in-israel-to-discuss-iran-syria-egypt.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  arrived in  Israel  for meetings on regional issues
including upheaval in the Arab world and Iran’s nuclear program.  Clinton flew in late yesterday from Egypt, where she urged
Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, head of the military
council, and newly elected President Mohamed Mursi to honor the
country’s 33-year-old peace treaty with Israel.  “The rise of President Mursi to power has aroused great
concern,” Israel’s Vice Prime Minister Silvan Shalom said today
on  Army Radio . He said the U.S. was trying to bridge the gaps
between Israel and Egypt.  Israel faces a series of challenges as unrest and change
sweep through its neighbors -- Syria is 16 months into a bloody
uprising that’s claimed at least 10,000 lives, while Egypt’s
transition to democracy has been marred by violence and by a
political struggle between Islamists and the military.
Meanwhile,  Iran  continues a nuclear program that the U.S. and
its allies say is designed to produce nuclear weapons.  Clinton outlined her conversations with the Egyptian
leaders in a meeting with Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman this
morning, according to a State Department official who wasn’t
authorized to speak on the record. In Cairo, Clinton stressed
the benefits the Camp David peace accords have brought Egypt,
reminding Mursi that a generation has grown up free of conflict.
Egypt and Israel fought four wars from 1948 to 1973.  Since being sworn in on June 30, Mursi has vowed to uphold
Egypt’s international commitments, though he’s also pledged
support for the Palestinians in their quest for a homeland.  Romney Visit  Clinton is the third U.S. official to come through
Jerusalem in the last week, following White House National
Security Advisor Tom Donilon and Deputy Secretary of State Bill Burns. She is also here before two weeks before a visit by
Republican presidential hopeful  Mitt Romney .  The parade of administration officials attests to close
relations between the two countries, said the official. She’s
visiting in a U.S. election year, when relations between
President  Barack Obama  and Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
have been strained over issues including the response to Iran’s
nuclear work. Netanyahu and Romney, in contrast, both worked as
advisers at  Boston Consulting Group  in the 1970s.  Clinton also discussed continuing international efforts to
curtail Iran’s nuclear program, the official said. The Obama
administration has urged Israel to refrain from a threatened
military attack on Iran to see if negotiations and economic
sanctions imposed by the U.S. and its European allies will work.
Iran says the program has peaceful aims.  Iran Nuclear  Under Secretary of State Wendy Sherman, who represents the
U.S. at meetings of the international group working on
countering  Iran’s nuclear program , sat to Clinton’s right at the
meeting with Liberman. The so-called P5+1 group includes all
five members of the  United Nations Security Council  -- China,
Russia, the U.S., Britain and France -- as well as Germany.  Speaking today in Jerusalem at a press conference
with Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, President  Shimon Peres 
said Israel will do whatever it can to prevent Iran
“endangering the freedom of other people, from endangering the
lives of other people.”  Clinton is also meeting Netanyahu, Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  and Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad during her 24-
hour stop in Jerusalem. She met Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  in Paris July 6.  Blair Meeting  Clinton will seek the Israelis’ assessment of the situation
in Syria, which borders Israel to the north, the official said.  She will also spend time reviewing the status of the
moribund Israeli-Palestinian peace talks with  Tony Blair , the
former British prime minister who now represents the UN in talks
among the “Quartet” trying to resolve the long-running
conflict. That group includes the U.S., the UN, the European
Union and Russia.  In her meetings with Fayyad, she will focus on economic
challenges, institution-building, training needs and the
political situation, the official said.  On Clinton’s entrance to Jerusalem and on her way into the
foreign ministry to meet with Liberman, enormous red-white-and
blue banners urged the release of Jonathan Pollard, an American
intelligence analyst who was convicted to life in prison in 1987
after he was caught passing classified information to Israel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  