-- Cameron Says Coalition Must Overcome Divisions After Lords Split
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2012-07-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/coalition-has-profound-areas-of-disagreement-cameron-says.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said his  Conservative Party  and their Liberal Democrat coalition
partners must surmount their “profound areas of disagreement”
and avoid descending into “division and navel-gazing.”  Writing in yesterday’s  Sunday Times  newspaper, Cameron said
disputes between the parties, including over plans to overhaul
the upper, unelected House of Lords, should not stop them from
working together in the national interest to narrow the  budget
deficit  and restore economic growth.  “Some people reacted to last week’s vote on the House of
Lords by saying that the coalition could -- or should -- end
soon,” the premier said. “I take completely the opposite
view.”  Almost a third of Conservative lawmakers in the House of
Commons voted last week against introducing elections for the
Lords, a key Liberal Democrat demand. His coalition allies have
threatened to block other parts of his program, including
changes to electoral boundaries that may help the Conservatives,
if Tories continue to oppose the Lords plan.  “What’s far more significant is that we are working
together on so much else,” Cameron wrote. “We must rise to the
challenge, recognizing the extraordinary and challenging nature
of the times we live in, and serve the national interest by
delivering a strong, decisive and united government.”  Cameron told Tory lawmakers last week he would make one
more attempt to win their support for a Lords overhaul.  Coalition Agreement  One of the Liberal Democrats’ Cabinet ministers, Energy
Secretary  Ed Davey , called on Cameron yesterday to ensure that
backing for the Lords bill, noting that it formed part of the
coalition deal the two parties signed in 2010.  “The coalition agreement isn’t a pick-and-mix agreement,
you’ve got to deliver on all of it,” Davey told Sky News
television. “We’re expecting the prime minister and the
Conservative Party to deliver on the coalition agreement.”  Menzies Campbell, a former Liberal Democrat leader who
still sits in the House of Commons, said he was “against tit-
for-tat politics” in the form of retaliation by his party
against the Tory revolt and warned that a coalition collapse
would dent investor confidence in the U.K.  ‘Severely Dented’  “If there are people around who say ‘well, we should break
the coalition,’ I’d just ask them this: do they think that the
British public would be impressed by the fact that a minority
government which lasted for three months would inevitably fall?
We’d be back in a general election, and the consequences for the
markets, and for confidence in the financial system severely
dented,” Campbell told BBC television’s “Andrew Marr Show”
yesterday.  A  YouGov Plc poll  for the Sunday Times put support for the
Conservatives at 34 percent and the Liberal Democrats at 9
percent, with backing for the opposition  Labour Party  at 43
percent. YouGov questioned 1,752 adults on July 12 and 13. It
didn’t give a margin of error.  A Tory lawmaker who opposes Cameron on the Lords, Nadine Dorries, wrote in a  blog post  published yesterday that she
expects both Liberal Democrat expectations for the overhaul of
the upper house and Conservative plans for boundary changes to
be dashed.  “The relationship between our two parties will be strained
and a lesson may be about to begin in how coalition governments
achieve very little and often end in tears,” Dorries wrote on
the Conservative Home website. “The coalition will run until
2015 as neither parties have anywhere else to go, that and the
fact that one important joint objective remains,  deficit
reduction . That will be the glue that binds us. Just.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  