-- Dead Hostess Stymies Tokyo Police, Excites Media: Books
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-07-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/dead-hostess-stymies-tokyo-police-excites-media-books.html
Stop me if you’ve heard this one
before: young blond beauty goes missing in a foreign country.  The woman at the heart of  Richard Lloyd Parry ’s “ People
Who Eat Darkness ” is Lucie Blackman, who hailed from the U.K.
and disappeared in  Tokyo  in 2000 at age 21.  It’s clear from the beginning, as with every missing-blonde
story, that the woman in question is dead. Blackman’s case
offers an intriguing twist: She was working as a hostess in
Tokyo’s Roppongi district, known for its nightlife.  Though the hostesses’ jobs weren’t sexual in nature -- the
women were meant to provide conversation and encourage Japanese
businessmen to buy alcohol -- they were part of the so-called
“water trade,” the adult entertainment industry. Lloyd Parry
interviews patrons, club owners and other hostesses and writes
convincingly about the world Blackman inhabited before she
vanished.  The hostesses also set up dinner dates, or “dohan,”
outside the club, which were required for continued employment.
Blackman was vulnerable because she didn’t have enough dohan
lined up. She wasn’t in a position to turn anyone down,
including the man who killed her.  The Tokyo police began the hunt for Blackman tardily,
bungled an opportunity to arrest her killer and found her body
so late that crucial physical evidence was gone. Lloyd Parry’s
straightforward reporting underscores their Keystone Kops-like
incompetence more than any heated invective could have done.  No Socks  Lloyd Parry, the Times of  London ’s Tokyo bureau chief, is
at his strongest dissecting the police’s initial response:
inactivity. He provides valuable insight on the media
maneuvering as well. It’s revealing that at the first press
conference Tim Blackman gave about his missing daughter, Lloyd
Parry remembers thinking something was off and realizing what it
was: Blackman wasn’t wearing socks.  This detail hints at later ways Tim Blackman deviated from
the accepted behavior of the parent of a missing child. He
didn’t seem sad enough; worse, he seemed to enjoy the attention.  Lloyd Parry deconstructs the media narrative expertly, so
it’s strange that he doesn’t note the calculus of how newspaper
editors decide which missing women are worth covering.  Blackman’s probable killer had a swath of rape victims,
though he’d killed only one before Blackman disappeared. The
man, Joji Obara, videotaped himself raping women he’d drugged
into unconsciousness.  He’d been doing it for years, targeting the women no one
cared about: ugly Japanese women (“I like ugly play with an
ugly girl,” Lloyd Parry quotes Obara as saying) and foreigners.
Had he not underestimated the importance of an attractive
missing blonde to the Western media, he would probably still be
free.  Missing Victims  In fact, it seems Obara understood even better than Lloyd
Parry the calculus of the worthwhile victim. The author seems
strangely incurious about the Japanese women Obara raped; very
little on them appears in the book. Perhaps Lloyd Parry did the
chilling evaluation about what would sell: the dead blond woman,
not the living Japanese victims.  Blackman herself is absent from most of the book, though
she provides the narrative engine. She dies less than halfway
through and Lloyd Parry gives the rest of the story over to the
various forces that shape her accused murderer’s fate. By the
end, I wondered how many dead blond enigmas we really need.  “People Who Eat Darkness: The True Story of a Young Woman
Who Vanished From the Streets of Tokyo -- and the Evil That
Swallowed Her Up” is published by Farrar, Straus & Giroux in
the U.S. and Vintage in the U.K. (454 pages, $16, 8.99 pounds).
To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Elizabeth Lopatto is a reporter for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  James Pressley  on business books
and  Elin McCoy  on wine.  To contact the writer of this column:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 