-- Dubai’s Stocks Advance to Week-High on Emaar; Egypt Declines
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-07-15T13:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/dubai-stocks-head-for-highest-in-week-on-emaar-saudi-declines.html
Dubai’s benchmark stock index rose
to the highest level in more than a week as  Emaar Properties
PJSC (EMAAR)  said it received offers for nine times the $500 million of
Islamic bonds it sold. Egyptian stocks declined.  Emaar, the developer of the world’s tallest skyscraper in
Dubai, advanced to the highest since May 2.  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) ,
the biggest bank in the United Arab Emirates by assets, climbed
the most in more than two weeks. The DFM General Index rose 0.8
percent to 1,502.54, the highest since July 5, at the close in
the emirate. The Bloomberg GCC 200 Index, which tracks the
biggest 200 companies in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council
fell 0.4 percent.  Emaar, which has the heaviest weighting on Dubai’s index,
sold sukuk last week at a profit rate of 6.4 percent, lower than
last year’s 8.5 percent. The company’s second-quarter profit
will more than double to 551 million dirhams ($150 million),
 according to the mean estimate  of four analysts on Bloomberg.
Emaar is scheduled to release financial results later this
month.  Emaar’s cost of funding through the sukuk “is positively
received by the market,” said Talal Touqan, head of research at
Al Ramz Securities LLC in  Abu Dhabi . The bonds “are extra
liquidity to fuel expansion. On the other hand, people have
started to notice that foreign trades, non-GCC, non-Arabs, are
targeting Emaar. Those are classified as smart money.”  Sukuk Investors  Investors from the  Middle East  bought 48 percent of the
sukuk, while 38 percent of investors were from  Europe , 13
percent from  Asia  and 1 percent from the U.S., Emaar said in a
statement to the Dubai bourse today. Fund managers accounted for
47 percent of the investors, banks 40 percent, private banks 7
percent and others 6 percent.  Emaar increased 1.6 percent to 3.15 dirhams. The shares
have climbed 23 percent this year, more than double the gain in
the  DFM General Index. (DFMGI)  The stock was the most traded in Dubai
today, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg . Emirates NBD
climbed 2.7 percent, the most since June 26, to 2.7 dirhams.  Abu Dhabi’s ADX General Index fell 0.2 percent and Kuwait’s
gauge lost 0.1 percent, while  Saudi Arabia ’s Tadawul All Share
Index retreated 0.6 percent. Bahrain’s measure slid 0.1 percent
and Qatar’s QE Index was little changed, while Oman’s MSM30
Index advanced 0.4 percent.  Egypt’s Government  Egypt’s benchmark EGX 30 Index tumbled 2 percent, the most
since July 9, to 4,719.01 at the close in Cairo as President
Mohamed Mursi has yet to name a new government three weeks after
he won last month’s presidential elections.  Citadel Capital SAE (CCAP) , a Cairo-based private equity firm,
declined 5 percent to 2.86 Egyptian pounds.  Orascom Telecom
Media (OTMT)  & Technology Holding SAE, a mobile-phone operator headed
by Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , tumbled 3.3 percent to
1.48 pounds.  “We’re still dealing with political instability and a
delay in the formation of the government,” said Tamer Nigm,
head of sales trading at Cairo-based Watheeqa Securities. The
decline “shows the market’s gain after the presidential
election was overly optimistic,” he said.  The index has gained 13 percent since Mursi, an Islamist
leader, was declared winner on June 24.  Israeli  benchmark TA-25 Index  dropped 0.8 percent. The
yield on the 5.5 percent Mimshal Shiklit notes due 2022
retreated two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.13
percent, the lowest since the notes were issued last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  