-- The New Villain at Guantanamo Is Canada
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-15T22:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/the-new-villain-at-guantanamo-is-canada.html
It’s hard to imagine anyone
rejoicing over being deported to war- and drought-ravaged  Sudan .
Yet there’s little doubt this fate came as a tremendous relief
to Ibrahim al-Qosi.  For the past decade Qosi’s home had been a cell in the U.S.
prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  His transfer to Khartoum on July 10 was the first of its
kind under the  Barack Obama  administration and an indication of
how much internment -- and military justice -- have improved at
Guantanamo, and also of the hurdles that remain.  The 52-year-old Qosi presents no threat to national
security; he had been a menial worker at Osama bin Laden’s
Afghan training camps after 1996. In 2010, he reached a plea
bargain with the tribunal, admitting to supporting terrorism in
return for two more years of confinement. Sudan agreed to take
him back after his release.  So, that’s one down and 168 prisoners to go. Another is
poised to leave the prison, if only one of the U.S.’s closest
allies will stop blocking his repatriation.  Omar Khadr is a Canadian citizen who was 15 when he was
captured in 2002 in  Afghanistan . In 2010 Khadr pleaded guilty to
five charges, including murder, in a deal that made him eligible
for transfer to a Canadian prison (and possible parole) after
one year. In diplomatic notes to the U.S., the Canadian
government indicated it would “favorably consider” Khadr’s
return.  Now, however, Minister of Public Safety Vic Toews is
singing a different tune, in fluent bureaucratese. Citing the
need for a report from  Canada ’s prisons agency, he is refusing
to formally ask for Khadr’s transfer, a diplomatic necessity.
Rising public opposition is doubtless a factor -- 53 percent of
respondents to an Abacus Data  poll  conducted in May considered
Khadr a security threat.  Canada’s hesitation has had a dangerous ripple effect at
Guantanamo. The chief U.S. prosecutor, Brigadier General Mark R.
Martins, has wisely sought to reach plea bargains with detainees
willing to testify against inmates considered higher up the al-
Qaeda ladder. By leaving Khadr in limbo, Canada has jeopardized
similar deals with other inmates.  One detainee, Soufiyan Barhoumi, a minor al-Qaeda figure
from  Algeria , is willing to testify against Abu Zubaydah, the
Palestinian whom President  George W. Bush  accused of being al-
Qaeda’s chief of operations. Yet Zubaydah, who has been held
without charges for a decade and was waterboarded 83 times, has
also been described by  military and law enforcement sources  as
little more than a travel agent for the terrorist group.  Charging and trying Zubaydah could resolve the questions
about his past and shed light on the torture he suffered. That
seems less likely to happen without Barhoumi’s cooperation,
which is contingent on repatriation to Algeria. His lawyer told
the  New York  Times, “the fact that Khadr remains at Guantanamo
beyond when he was supposed to be transferred is a significant
hindrance in my client’s willingness to participate in
negotiations with the government.”  The military tribunal system, after reforms in 2009, is
finally starting to work, and the new emphasis on plea bargains
is a big reason why. But that progress is at risk so long as
Canada leaves Omar Khadr in his Cuban limbo.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  Jamie Dimon ’s bonus
should be  clawed back  and how to put more  electric cars  on the
road; William D. Cohan on Romney’s  magical IRA ;  Albert R. Hunt 
on the candidates’ need to  spell out  debt-cutting plans; Anthony
Luzzatto Gardner on  Bain Capital under Romney ; Stephen Marche
explains why  Canadians are now richer  than Americans.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 