-- The Secret Behind Romney’s Magical IRA
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-07-15T22:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/the-secret-behind-romney-s-magical-ira.html
The most mysterious of the
unexplained mysteries about  Mitt Romney ’s considerable wealth is
how he was able to amass between $21 million and $102 million in
his individual retirement account during the 15 years he was at
Bain Capital LLC.  How did he do it, given the relatively small amounts that
the law permits to be contributed to such a plan on an annual
basis? Romney has not explained this conundrum, and seeing as he
wants to become president, he would be wise to start talking --
if for no other reason than there might be many Americans who
would like to emulate what he did.  During Romney’s tenure at Bain Capital -- from 1984 to
1999, although a recent Boston Globe article uncovered Romney
having a role at Bain until 2002 -- the firm used a so-called
SEP-IRA, which is like a 401(k) retirement plan but is funded
entirely by the employer and has a much higher maximum
contribution:  about $30,000 annually  during the period Romney
was at Bain. Assuming Romney maxed out these tax-deferred
contributions, he would have invested roughly $450,000 in his
SEP-IRA during his years at Bain.  Skilled Investors  While there are limits to the amount that can be
contributed tax-deferred to an IRA, there are no restrictions on
the amount of money that the contributed capital can earn and
can continue to earn, on a tax-deferred basis, even after the
contributions have stopped. (The  Internal Revenue Service  will
get its pound of flesh from Romney when he takes the money out
of the IRA.) The only limit is the skill, or luck, of the IRA’s
owner. If you are the  Warren Buffett  of IRA investors, it is
conceivable that you could turn $450,000 into as much as $102
million -- an increase of 227 times -- but not very likely,
especially as in the last decade or so, the stock market has
been a roller coaster. Mere investing mortals would be lucky to
still have $450,000 in the account. (The median American family
has $42,500 in traditional IRAs, according to the  Investment
Company Institute .)  So how did Romney do it? Of course, we don’t know, but
there have been several theories propagated to fill the
considerable gap in knowledge left by Romney’s ongoing silence.
Mark Maremont, a Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter at the Wall
Street Journal (and a former classmate of mine at journalism
school), has  suggested  that -- perfectly legally -- Romney
contributed to his IRA using the low-basis, low-value stock he
received as a partner at  Bain Capital  in the various buyouts the
firm did while Romney was there.  For instance, after Bain bought Domino’s Pizza in 1998 for
$1.1 billion, Bain partners (and the limited partners who went
in on the deal) were able to get a slice of the equity of the
company. Given the high leverage put into the pizza maker to
finance its purchase, it’s a safe bet there was very little
equity value at the start, meaning that shares with little book
value could be contributed to the IRA.  If Romney put $30,000 worth of Domino’s Pizza stock into
his 1998 SEP-IRA, it is conceivable that it would be worth many
times that amount when Domino’s went public in 2004. If Romney
did the same thing over and over again during the 15 years he
was at Bain doing leveraged buyouts, it is conceivable that the
$450,000 would increase greatly in value.  Of course, not every deal Bain did worked out. But let’s
say Romney was prescient and put into this hypothetical IRA only
the stock of the buyout companies that did well, returning to
investors a whopping 10 times their money. (This is very rare
but conceivable.) Even so, that would turn Romney’s $450,000
into $4.5 million. If the money was also compounded and
reinvested over the years and became, say, $10 million, that
would still leave another $11 million to $92 million of
unexplained value sitting in the presumptive Republican Party
presidential nominee’s IRA.  Mighty Oak  This great mystery seems to have troubled others, as well.
On  July 3 , Current TV host Jennifer Granholm, a former
Democratic governor of  Michigan , invited Edward Kleinbard, a law
professor at the University of  Southern California , on her show
to discuss how Romney could have accomplished this remarkable
feat. There were “only two possibilities,” Kleinbard told
Granholm. Either “from a little acorn, a mighty oak grew very,
very quickly, extraordinarily so,” Kleinbard explained, causing
Granholm to interject, “What little acorn could grow to be $101
million? I want to get some of that acorn!”  The other possibility, Kleinbard suggested, was not
dissimilar to what Maremont theorized: that Romney contributed
limited-partnership interests in Bain’s buyouts to his IRA. What
was “quite troubling” to Kleinbard is that he suspected Romney
may have contributed these interests to his IRA at a fraction of
their market value -- “pennies on the dollar” -- and well below
what he might have charged you or me. When the buyouts became
successful, Kleinbard proposed, the pennies on the dollar were
suddenly worth real dollars.  “What’s very frustrating to me about all this is that we
can only talk in abstractions and generalities because, again,
of the lack of disclosure,” Kleinbard said.  Without mentioning the heroics Romney has accomplished in
his IRA, the  New York  Times  editorialized  on July 10 that the
rest of Romney’s opaque “tax avoidance” schemes -- including
overseas shelters in the  Cayman Islands ,  Switzerland  and
elsewhere -- amount to nothing short of a “financial black hole”
that he would be well advised to explain to the public. He
should put explaining his magical IRA at the top of the list.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  good news from Guantanamo ,
why  Jamie Dimon ’s bonus should be  clawed back  and how to put
more  electric cars  on the road; William D. Cohan on Romney’s
 magical IRA ;  Albert R. Hunt  on the candidates’ need to  spell out 
debt-cutting plans; Anthony Luzzatto Gardner on  Bain Capital
under Romney ; Stephen Marche explains why  Canadians are now
richer  than Americans.  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  