-- Hedge Funds Bet Right Before Longest Winning Streak: Commodities
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-07-16T20:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/hedge-funds-bet-right-before-longest-winning-streak-commodities.html
Hedge funds  boosted their bullish
commodity bets above 1 million contracts as mounting speculation
that  China  will take more steps to boost growth spurred the
longest rally in prices since February.  Speculators raised their net-long  positions  across 18 U.S.
futures and options by 8.9 percent to 1.05 million contracts in
the week ended July 10, Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data show. That’s the highest since April 3. Wagers on a wheat
rally reached a record. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of
24 raw materials climbed for a third consecutive week, jumping
10 percent in the longest winning streak since Feb. 24.  Global  equities  climbed the most in two weeks on July 13,
ending the longest slump since November, after a government
report showed  China’s economy  last quarter slowed to the weakest
pace since the global financial crisis, putting pressure on
Premier  Wen Jiabao  to boost stimulus measures. Federal Reserve
Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said the same day that
the central bank may need to begin a new program of asset
purchases if recent economic weakness persists.  “The Chinese numbers are telling us that there will be
more easing,” said  James Paulsen , the chief investment
strategist at Wells Capital Management, which oversees about
$333 billion of assets. “People realize that the effect of the
easing that we saw in some countries will be realized over the
next few months. There is a change in the direction of the wind
because of a combination of these factors, and probably we are
seeing some confidence building.”  Wheat Climbs  The S&P GSCI Index climbed 2.7 percent last week. The MSCI
All-Country World Index of equities dropped 0.5 percent, and the
U.S. Dollar Index, a measure against six trading partners, slid
less than 0.1 percent. Treasuries returned 0.3 percent, a Bank
of America Corp. gauge shows. The GSCI index added 1.5 percent
to settle at 630.63 in  New York  today.  Twenty-one of the 24 raw materials tracked by S&P rose last
week. The gains were led by corn, which jumped 6.8 percent.
Wheat climbed 5.1 percent in  Chicago  as dry weather parched
fields from  North Dakota  to  Russia .  China reduced  interest rates  in June and July and has
lowered  reserve requirements  for banks three times since
November. The country probably will cut the benchmark one-year
lending rate again this quarter while making two 50 basis-point
cuts in the reserve ratio, according to  Tim Condon , the chief
Asia economist at ING Financial Markets in  Singapore .  ECB Policy  The  European Central Bank  is poised to ease monetary
policy, including cutting its deposit rate further if the
region’s debt crisis worsens, according to a Medley Global
Advisors report. A significant number of members on the ECB’s
Governing Council are prepared to take the deposit rate below
zero if the economic outlook warrants it, Medley wrote in a note
to investors published July 13, without saying how they obtained
the information.  Investors withdrew $173 million from commodity funds in the
week ended July 11, driven by an outflow of $128 million from
gold and precious metals, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based EPFR Global, which tracks money flows.  Signs of a flagging recovery mean “the balance of risks to
most industrial commodity prices remains to the downside,”
analysts at Credit Suisse Group AG led by London-based Ric Deverell said in a report July 11.  China Homes  A surge in Chinese house deals and a jump in investment may
limit the scope of government stimulus programs even amid signs
of slowing industrial output. The  value  of home sales rose 41
percent in June from May, data July 13 showed. The country must
“unswervingly” continue its property controls and prevent
prices from rebounding, Premier Wen said July 7, according to
the official Xinhua news agency.  The world’s most-populous nation accounts for 40 percent of
copper consumption and 11 percent of oil demand, Barclays Plc
and the International Energy Agency estimate.  “China may be weaker than commonly thought, and it’s very
unlikely that we will see a stimulus package similar to the size
that we saw in 2008 being introduced,” said John Toohey, a vice
president of equities investments with USAA Investments who
helps manage about $50 billion.  In November 2008, Wen unveiled a 4 trillion  yuan  ($586
billion) fiscal injection after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. caused a credit crunch that crippled global
economies. A month later, the Fed cut borrowing costs to a
record low and then embarked on two rounds of debt purchases
totaling $2.3 trillion through June 2011.  The global aid programs boosted demand for everything from
aluminum to pork to soybeans. The S&P GSCI rebounded 50 percent
in 2009, the biggest annual gain since at least 1971, after a
record 43 percent loss the previous year. The index is up 19
percent since Dec. 31, 2009.  Agriculture Holdings  A  measure  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators raised
bullish wagers in agricultural commodities by 16 percent to
785,831 contracts. Money managers increased their wheat net-long
positions by 17 percent to 62,468  contracts , the highest since
the data begins in June 2006. Funds lifted bets on higher corn
prices for a fifth straight week, the longest stretch since
September 2010.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  on July 11 cut its
outlook for world wheat output by 1 percent as the forecast for
Russia’s crop was lowered by 7.5 percent. Prices in Chicago have
surged 41 percent since June 15 and are at the highest since
February 2011.  Sugar Bets  Funds increased  sugar  holdings by 76 percent to 100,511
contracts, the biggest jump since December 2007, the CFTC data
show. Prices in New York rose to the highest since mid-April
last week on concern that global supplies will remain limited
after wet weather delayed cane crushing in  Brazil , the world’s
largest producer and exporter.  Speculators reduced net-long positions in crude by 5.1
percent, extending the decline since the end of February to 53
percent. Oil traded in New York jumped 3.8 percent to $87.10 a
barrel in the following three days.  “China will manage its slowdown with more easing,” said
 Michael Strauss , who helps oversee about $26 billion of assets
as the chief investment strategist at Commonfund in Wilton,
 Connecticut . “With continued easing, we will definitely see
higher prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  