-- Egypt’s Secularists Mobilize Against Growing Power of Islamists
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-08-01T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/egypt-s-mursi-should-end-military-trials-of-civilians-hrw-says.html
As Shaimaa Hamdi rode with a woman
friend through a crowded intersection in Cairo’s upscale
Mohandesin district, their car came dangerously close to one
driven by a man sporting a bushy beard.  The near miss was common in Egypt. It was the man’s
reaction that left the women stunned.  “Don’t your husbands know how to control you?” he yelled
out his window, recalled Hamdi, a teacher. “What are you doing
out of the house, anyway?”  To Hamdi, it was one of many signs in the almost 18 months
since the ouster of former president  Hosni Mubarak  that
Islamists are becoming emboldened in advancing their agenda,
unofficially and independently. The push is opposed by
secularists who say they have no intention of allowing Egypt to
move in the direction of  Iran , which became a theocracy after
the 1979 revolution that ousted Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi.  President Mohamed Mursi, who says he wants to appeal to all
Egyptians, described female circumcision as a private matter in
a television interview before he was elected. The day after
Mursi was sworn in, a 20-year-old man in Suez died from stab
wounds inflicted by three men who challenged him for being in
public with his fiancee in a park. Comedic actor Adel Imam was
sentenced in April to three months in jail with hard labor and
fined 1,000 Egyptian pounds ($164) on charges of mocking Islam.  Secularists, women and minority Christians are fighting
back by forming organizations to protest and monitor what they
see as the growth of Islamism. While political officials preach
moderation, the real struggle for Egypt’s Islamic identity is
playing out as acutely on the streets as it is in the
government, Hamdi said.  ‘Pieces of Meat’  “They want to drag us back into the past,” she said.
“We’re seen as pieces of meat in the street. If we aren’t
harassed by youths saying disgusting sexual things, then we’re
ordered to stay home by the Islamists. We were part of this
revolution, too.”  The incidents are worrisome, said Hani Sabra,  Middle East 
and Africa analyst for the Eurasia group in  New York .  “A Mursi victory has emboldened figures who feel that
Egypt should be Islamized and feel less threatened” about
intimidating others, he said in a phone interview. Even so,
“what protects Egypt from being a theocracy is the Egyptian
public,” since Mursi secured a narrow victory that came with
help from secularists and youth activists. “If it’s a binary
question, do I think Egypt will turn into an Iran, then the
answer is no.”  Islamist Majority  Still, the shift is visible in politics. Parliament’s upper
house, which like the lower house has an Islamist majority of
more than 70 percent, is under fire by journalists for its
recent push to determine how editors-in-chief of the state-run
news organizations are appointed.  “These violations are not new,” said Amr Ezzat, head of
the freedom of religion and belief program at the  Egyptian
Initiative for Personal Rights  in Cairo. “But, now, everyone is
on alert since the political discussions are focused on efforts
that curb liberties.”  After the conviction of Imam, writers and other artists
established a group called the Monitor. The intent is to watch
for efforts to limit freedom of expression and thought by
Islamists. Coptic activists also set up what they call the
Christian Brotherhood, aimed at countering what they see as a
push by Islamists into all sectors of society.  And the National Front, a group that had supported Mursi
and includes Wael Ghonim, the former Google Inc. executive who
rose to prominence during the 2011 uprising, says the president
hasn’t been engaging his secular supporters. Instead, he has
made decisions in an isolated and non-transparent manner,
activist and group member Wael Khalil said by phone.  Theocratic State?  The groups, which are still in their infancy, reflect the
broader push by secularists against a theocratic state.
Secularists on the committee charged with drafting the new
constitution, for instance, are boycotting the process over
concerns Islamists on the panel are seeking to marginalize
differing views.  Others, like a political party set up by Nobel Laureate
 Mohamed ElBaradei , say their efforts are better spent on
challenging the Islamists in the coming parliamentary elections.  The changes in Egypt are reflected elsewhere in the region,
with fundamentalist Salafi groups in  Tunisia  growing
increasingly unruly, including smashing up bars. While the
Egyptian incidents remain largely individual acts, whether they
evolve into a larger phenomenon is tied to the country’s so-far
fitful transition to democracy, according to Shadi Hamid,
director of research at Brookings Doha Center in Qatar.  Empowered Citizens  “Democratization empowers citizens and citizens now feel
empowered to impose their views on others in a more public,
aggressive way,” Hamid said in a phone interview. “If the
transition continues to run into problems, then frustration will
only mount.”  The secular push to organize, said poet Shaaban Youssif, a
member of the Monitor, is aimed at ensuring that at least some
of the goals of a democratic  Egypt  aren’t undercut.  “The ruling on Adel Imam was a real alarm for every
intellectual,” said Youssif.  The Muslim Brotherhood, whose political arm Mursi headed
and which won a majority in Parliament before the legislature
was disbanded by court order, has vowed to embrace a national
program that doesn’t impose strict Islamic law on all.  Mursi said repeatedly he wants to appoint a Coptic
Christian and a female deputy as advisers. As prime minister,
though, he selected little-known irrigation minister Hisham Qandil, who says he doesn’t belong to any political or religious
group. He does sport a light beard and a mark on his forehead
often seen among very devout Muslims.  Apology Lacking  The Brotherhood and other Islamists condemned the fatal
attack on Ahmed Eid, the 20-year-old student in Suez, though
Interior Minister Mohamed Ibrahim, expected to be replaced under
the new government, said the incident could have been avoided if
Eid had “apologized” to the men.  “These kinds of incidents and comments are nothing more
than an attempt to sully the image of the Brotherhood, in
particular and the Islamists, in general,” Mahmoud Ghozlan, a
spokesman for the Brotherhood, said by phone. “We are not about
forcing women to take the veil and under no circumstances is it
acceptable to intimidate anyone” into taking a step that should
be taken out of conviction.  Still, the events have put the Brotherhood and Islamists on
the defensive at a time when they are locked in a power struggle
with the military and the country is facing some of its worst
economic challenges in more than a decade.  Foreign Reserves  Since the start of 2011, Egypt has run through more than 50
percent of its foreign reserves while unemployment has climbed.
A $3.2 billion International Monetary Fund loan remains
unapproved, even though the financing is needed to restore
investor confidence after foreigners pulled out most of their
holdings. Meanwhile, labor strikes and near-daily protests stall
economic productivity and growth.  Other indications of greater religiosity in the country
include the recent establishment of a television channel run by
women wearing the all-covering face veil, or niqab.  Travel companies also appear to be capitalizing on the
trend, with  Shouq Travel  offering trips it says are Halal, or
religiously permissible. The firm’s website says the trips
include accommodation in hotels that don’t serve alcohol or pork
and offer covered pools for women. The site shows a photo of a
bearded man riding a jet ski while his wife, wearing a black
cloak and niqab, rides behind.  Hijab and Home?  “A lot of women are now looking fearfully over their
shoulder at the increasing Islamification of Egypt, that they
might be forced to wear hijab or stay at home,” said Sally
Zohney, a founding member of the Bahiya ya Misr women’s rights
group. While the harassment was not entirely new, it was
important to not show fear as this would “give them feeling
that they’re powerful. We should stand up for our rights.”  Even Egypt’s beer drinkers are voicing concerns. In the
Cairo district of Maadi, where many foreigners live, bars were
smashed and their customers attacked by groups of men whom the
patrons described as Islamists.  On the day Mursi was sworn in, a small group of youths led
by activist Ahmed El-Bahar called on their Facebook page for a
march to the presidential palace dubbed “Beer is our right.”  It preceded a decision by Tourism Minister Mounir Fakhry
Abdel-Nour to further tighten controls on the serving of alcohol
to Egyptians from just during the holy month of Ramadan to all
Islamic holidays.  “If we don’t seize our rights and practice them now, we
will slowly turn into the Brotherhood state,” el-Bahar wrote on
his Facebook page.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net 
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  