-- Merkel Gives No Ground on Demands for Oversight in Crisis
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-07-16T07:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/merkel-says-attempts-to-avoid-greater-oversight-will-fail.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  gave no
ground on  Germany ’s demands for more central control over euro
 member states  in return for joint burden-sharing as the region
struggles to contain the debt crisis.  The German leader said yesterday she hadn’t softened her
stance at last month’s summit in Brussels and that a so-called
banking union involving a bloc-wide financial overseer will have
to include joint oversight on a “new level.” She chided member
states who had sought to slow moves toward greater central
control “since the first summit” in the 2 1/2-year-old crisis.  “All of these attempts will have no chance with me or with
Germany,” Merkel said in an interview with  broadcaster ZDF  in
the Federal Chancellery in Berlin.  Two weeks after a European Union summit aimed at bridging
differences over crisis resolution, euro leaders are still
squabbling over details of how to lift the bloc out of the
turmoil. Merkel hardened Germany’s position that any attempt to
share burdens in  Europe  -- such as jointly issued euro bonds or
common banking bodies -- must first be met with greater
cooperation and a handover of some sovereignty to Brussels.  Today, Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court said it won’t
rule on challenges to the region’s bailout fund, the European
Stability Mechanism, until Sept. 12, two months after its
intended starting date.  Euro’s Decline  The euro fell to its lowest level against the dollar in
more than two years last week, sliding as far as $1.2163 on July
13. The currency was down 0.2 percent to $1.2225 at 9:09 a.m. in
 Frankfurt , while the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  dropped 0.2 percent.  Europe’s most credit-worthy government bonds climbed last
week, with German two-year note yields down to a record minus
0.052 percent, as investors sought havens from the euro crisis.  Diverging rates and capital outflows within the 17-member
monetary union signal that the single currency is “slowly
unraveling,”  Stephen Gallo , senior foreign-exchange strategist
at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  in  London , told Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse” in a July 13 interview.  “The whole project is unraveling, that’s what’s
essentially happening now,” Gallo said.  While Merkel said that Europe is on the “right course”
toward putting an end to the crisis, euro-area leaders “haven’t
solved the problems conclusively.”  Vacation Interrupted  German lawmakers will interrupt their summer vacations and
return to Berlin on July 19 to vote to approve 100 billion euros
($122 billion) in rescue loans to  Spain . After Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  last week announced 65 billion euros in
welfare cuts and tax increases, Merkel reiterated yesterday that
financial assistance would not be doled out without conditions.  “Whoever receives assistance and where liabilities are
taken over, there has to be control,” Merkel told ZDF.  French President  Francois Hollande , Italian Prime Minister
Mario Monti and Spain’s Rajoy have pressed for faster action,
including joint liabilities, while Merkel has called jointly
issued debt the “wrong way” to fix the crisis. Merkel last
month castigated a blueprint for the summit by EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy  as too focused on “collectivization.”  Bank Issues  Euro officials this month have also sparred over the
timetable for establishing a euro-wide bank supervisor, a
benchmark required before they implement one of the decisions
from the June 28-29 summit -- direct bailout funding for banks.
Investors have viewed such a step as a way to sever the link
between banking debt and sovereign debt.  Euro-area finance ministers will confer July 20 to complete
an agreement on Spain’s bank bailout. On July 10, the ministers
announced 30 billion euros of aid would be made available by the
end of this month.  Klaus Regling, who heads the euro’s bailout funds, told
Welt am Sonntag yesterday that governments could avoid liability
for bank rescues under proposals for a regional supervisor. That
contradicts German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , who said
July 9 that he expects governments to guarantee loans even if
they go directly to banks, Welt said.  Surrendering Sovereignty  Merkel said leaders hadn’t yet reached an agreement on the
terms for bank rescues.  German Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said euro leaders
had caused damage by failing to define more clearly their
conclusions at the summit. He told Dutch newspaper Het
Financieele Dagblad on July 14 that euro nations “should
discuss giving up sovereignty with the same openness as the
question of how to resolve the debt problem collectively.”  As governments in Spain and  Italy  struggle under the burden
of higher borrowing costs, Weidmann, Germany’s chief central
banker and a European Central Bank Governing Council member,
told Boersen-Zeitung that Italy’s higher yields don’t justify a
request for bailout assistance. Euro bailout funding should be
deployed only as a last resort, he said.  “If Italy stays the course on reforms, it’s on a good
path,” Weidmann told the newspaper in an interview. Asked
whether the euro area’s third-largest economy needs to tap the
fund, he said, “No, I don’t see Italy in that situation.”  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  has sought a “debt
shield” against spillover from a Spanish banking crisis.  Euro-area leaders have given Spain an extra year, until
2014, to drive its  budget deficit  below the euro limit of 3
percent of gross domestic product, a concession that may
foreshadow leniency for other indebted states in the bloc.  Greek Poll  In  Greece , an MRB poll published in Athens-based Real News
newspaper showed that almost three-quarters of Greeks want Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras’s coalition government to insist on a
renegotiation of the country’s international bailout.  Seventy-four percent in the survey said the government
should insist on discussing the terms even if negotiations steer
toward the prospect of Greece leaving the euro; 15.5 percent
said the government should stick to current conditions.  Volker Kauder , the parliamentary leader of Merkel’s
 Christian Democratic Union , told Welt am Sonntag that he doesn’t
want to give Greece more time to meet economic targets.  Merkel, asked the same question during the ZDF interview,
said she would await a report by Greece’s international
creditors, known as the troika.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  