-- Gillard Vows to Fight Australia Election on Economic Credentials
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-07-15T16:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/gillard-vows-to-fight-australia-election-on-economic-credentials.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , trailing in opinion polls, said she will contest next
year’s federal election on her record of economic management.  “The next election will be fought on the reality of our
record,” Gillard told delegates attending a conference of her
ruling  Labor party  in Sydney yesterday. “Our strong economy
with our surplus, low  interest rates ,  jobs . The fight’s on and
we will fight it and win it.”  Gillard is running out of time to turn around the minority
Labor government’s performance in the polls after new taxes and
lawmaker scandals eroded her popularity. Yesterday’s speech
shows she’s looking to the nation’s economic credentials, such
as a report last month that gross domestic product grew in the
first quarter at the fastest annual pace in more than four years,
for a fillip.  Australian  consumer confidence  rose to a five-month high as
households responded to the central bank’s 1.25 percentage
points of interest-rate cuts since November, a private survey
showed on July 11. The sentiment index for July advanced 3.7
percent to 99.1, the highest level since February, a  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute survey taken July 2-8 of
1,200 consumers showed.  Gillard’s government unveiled a  federal budget  on May 8
that she plans to return to surplus next year and scrapped a
planned cut in company taxes to fund payouts for low-and middle-
income earners. Labor is aiming to give the central bank, which
cut interest rates on May 1, the flexibility to lower borrowing
costs in a nation where almost 90 percent of mortgages are at
variable rates.  Cutting Rates  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut the benchmark rate by 50
basis points late last year and a total of 75 basis points in
May and June. It now sits at 3.5 percent, still higher than most
other developed-world central banks.  Unemployment rose in  Australia  in June, increasing
speculation of a fifth interest-rate reduction by the central
bank in nine months as Europe’s clouded outlook restrains global
growth. Still, the level of 5.2 percent compares favorably with
countries such as the U.S., which is at 8.2 percent.  After the closest election in seven decades, Gillard put
together a minority government in September 2010 with support
from independents and Greens, who pledged their votes in
parliament. In return, she backtracked on a promise not to
create a tax on  carbon emissions , which was implemented on July
1 along with new levies on  iron ore  and coal mining profits.  Gillard’s Gamble  Gillard has been betting increased benefit payments to low-
and middle-income households from revenue generated by the new
taxes would alleviate a voter backlash in the run up to
elections that must be held by November 2013.  In a bid to appeal to her Labor party’s working-class base,
then-employment minister Gillard introduced the Fair Work Act in
2009. It overturned former Prime Minister  John Howard ’s
unpopular “Workchoices” policy, blamed by his Liberal party
for its 2007 election defeat.  An independent review of the act has been submitted and is
due to be made public later this month, according to the
government.  “We will use the Fair Work Act review to lock in fairness,
to lock in bargaining in good faith, to lock them in for the
future,” Gillard said yesterday.  The Tony Abbott-led Liberal-National opposition extended
its lead over Labor by 2 points to a 12-point margin on a two-
party basis, which takes into account the nation’s preferential
voting system, according to a Newspoll published July 10 in the
Australian newspaper. The survey of 1,141 people, conducted July
6-8, had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  Abbott’s Tactics  Abbott, in the U.S. and  China  this week for diplomatic
meetings, has been seeking to undermine the Gillard government’s
one-seat majority in parliament. He has called for the
resignation of Craig Thomson from parliament after the former
Labor lawmaker, whose vote Gillard relies on to pass laws,
dismissed allegations he used a labor union credit card to pay
for prostitutes.  Tony Crook , a National party member of parliament for
 Western Australia  who voted as an independent, in May withdrew
his support for the government.  Peter Slipper , the parliamentary
speaker on whom Gillard had relied to solidify her control of
the house, in April stepped aside to deal with fraud and sexual-
harassment claims that he denies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  