-- Glaxo, Shionogi Say HIV Drug Beats Gilead Atripla in Test
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-07-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/glaxo-shionogi-say-hiv-drug-beats-gilead-atripla-in-test.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  marketed the
first HIV drug a quarter century ago before losing out to  Gilead
Sciences Inc. (GILD)  as the world’s biggest maker of AIDS medicines.
Now Glaxo is staging a comeback.  Glaxo’s HIV-focused joint venture with  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  ViiV
Healthcare Ltd. , has produced the first drug to beat Gilead’s
top-selling Atripla pill in a study. The experimental
dolutegravir medicine, combined with ViiV’s older two-in-one
treatment Epzicom, reduced the virus to undetectable levels in
more people than the three-in-one Atripla, with fewer side
effects, ViiV said last week.  Together with a previous trial that showed dolutegravir
works better than  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s Isentress, the results suggest
the pill may become a preferred first option for HIV treatment,
adding as much as $2.8 billion to sales and raising the
likelihood that ViiV will sell shares in an initial public
offering, according to Deutsche Bank AG. While that possibility
has been raised since ViiV’s inception in 2009, an IPO isn’t
management’s priority, said Dominique Limet, ViiV’s chief
executive officer.  “My ambition is to rebuild a very well-known and
recognized company specializing in HIV and AIDS,” Limet said in
an interview at ViiV’s headquarters in Brentford,  England , just
outside London. “After a period of setbacks in terms of R&D and
decline of our sales, with a forthcoming pipeline of products,
we can re-energize the sales momentum.”  Drug Combinations  Glaxo developed the first drug against HIV, Retrovir, in
1987. The virus became resistant to the treatment when given on
its own, leading to the development of therapeutic cocktails
consisting of three medicines that stop HIV from replicating,
curbing its attack on the body’s immune system.  Atripla, which earned  Foster City , California-based Gilead
$3.2 billion in sales last year, was the first treatment to pack
three HIV drugs into a single pill, taken once daily. It
combines Gilead’s two-in-one drug Truvada with a third medicine
called Sustiva from New York-based  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)   Now ViiV’s studies are spurring doctors and Limet to
consider which combinations of drugs will work best for
patients. While ViiV is formulating a  single pill  that combines
dolutegravir with Epzicom, it is exploring other combinations,
Limet said.  ‘The Beginning’  “It’s just the beginning of the journey,” he said. A
major focus for ViiV is to “reduce the burden of not only the
disease but the burden of treatment schemes.”  Doctors cite concerns for side effects that plague both
ViiV’s Epzicom and Gilead’s competing Truvada, which is included
in Atripla as well as its forthcoming Quad pill.  A study published in  The Lancet  medical journal in 2008
found abacavir, a component of Epzicom, was associated with an
increased risk of heart attack in HIV patients. The U.S.  Food
and Drug Administration  last year said it analyzed 26 clinical
trials on abacavir conducted between 1996 and 2010 and concluded
that taking the drug isn’t linked to heart attack risk.  Still, there remains a prejudice against abacavir,
especially among doctors in the U.S., as some haven’t tracked
all of the follow-up studies showing the drug’s safety, said
Jeffrey Laurence, senior scientific consultant at the New York-
based Foundation for AIDS Research and professor at Weill
Cornell Medical College.  “That initial study made a huge splash,” he said.  Side Effects  Gilead’s Truvada, for its part, contains tenofovir, which
may cause kidney damage or bone loss, according to the drug’s
 prescribing information .  “It’s a bit like football teams: some support abacavir,
some hate abacavir, some support tenofovir, some hate
tenofovir,” said  Mark Nelson , a consultant HIV physician at
Chelsea and Westminster Hospital in London.  Doctors may consider prescribing dolutegravir with Truvada,
which is the basis of the four first-line treatment regimens in
the U.S recommended by the  Department of Health  and Human
Services, said Paul Sax, an HIV physician and a clinical
director at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in  Boston . That
combination also enables patients to avoid the exhausting
nightmares that accompany taking Sustiva, which is contained in
Gilead’s Atripla pill, he said.  In ViiV’s study comparing dolutegravir with Isentress,
dubbed  Spring-2 , participants in both treatment groups took
either Truvada or Epzicom as the backbone medicine. More details
on side effects and efficacy will be presented at the
 International AIDS Conference  in  Washington  starting this
weekend.  Changing Perception  “The combination with Truvada will get a very close
look,” Sax said. “A lot of the patients in that study, we can
expect, took Truvada with dolutegravir, and it would not
surprise me at all if that group does extremely well, and has
fewer safety concerns, at least up front, than abacavir.”  Epzicom is more widely accepted in  Europe , where it’s
marketed as Kivexa, and “I feel very confident that over time,
we will be able to see a change everywhere in the world in
regards to perception,” Limet said. “We have accumulated such
a body of evidence, and that’s what the FDA has recognized.”  Still, doctors will have the option to prescribe
dolutegravir on its own with any other approved drugs, he said.
While single-pill combination drugs are convenient for patients,
“it’s important that physicians not trade potential side
effects for the sake of simplicity.”  Bone Density  Garry Brough, who was diagnosed with HIV in 1991, has taken
both abacavir- and tenofovir-containing treatments. After seven
years on the abacavir-based therapy, he switched to the other
while being treated for hepatitis C, as recommended by his
doctor.  Two years later, he said he was diagnosed with low bone
density, an early warning sign for potential osteoporosis. That
prompted him to switch back.  “I’m very happy with the treatment,” said Brough, 45, a
membership involvement officer at patient advocacy group
 Terrence Higgins Trust  in London. “I’m not worried about my
cardiovascular risk. But reduced bone density? I didn’t like
that one as much.”  ViiV, with 1.57 billion pounds ($2.44 billion) in annual
 sales  in 2011, is awaiting results from two more studies on
dolutegravir for treatment-resistant patients that will be
released by the end of the year. The company will probably file
for regulatory approval early in 2013, Limet said.  Sharing Sales  The company’s partner is  Osaka , Japan-based  Shionogi & Co. (4507) ,
which will take half the earnings from sales of dolutegravir. As
Glaxo owns 85 percent of ViiV, it will take 42.5 percent of
profit from the drug and New York-based Pfizer will receive 7.5
percent.  Shionogi established its European headquarters in London in
February to market dolutegravir in the region.  In addition to developing treatments for HIV, ViiV is also
working on medicines to restore the body’s immune system while
on treatment and also a potential cure for AIDS, which may
materialize by 2025, Limet said. The latter project will require
partnerships with academic institutions and other drugmakers, he
said.  “Our employees went through a number of setbacks and
disappointments,” Limet said. “And they were so resilient, so
adamant to demonstrate that some of the statements were possibly
overstated, about side effects, about the fact that we were no
longer leading the HIV fight.” With dolutegravir, “a new hope
has emerged in our team.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  