-- GLG Forms Asia Equities Team Co-led by Ex-GIC Manager
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-07-16T01:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/glg-forms-asia-equities-team-co-headed-by-former-gic-manager.html
(Correct spelling of Walsh’s last name in fifth paragraph.)  GLG Partners Inc., a unit of the
world’s largest publicly traded hedge fund manager, formed a
long-short equities team in  Asia  co-headed by a former fund
manager at Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund, seeking
opportunities in the region’s stock market.  The team based in Hong Kong will be led by David Mercurio,
who joined the London-based unit of  Man Group Plc (EMG)  as the head of
Asia equity and co-head of its global equity strategies from
Government of Singapore Investment Corp. in September, according
to an e-mailed statement from GLG. Ben Freischmidt, former co-
founder of Singapore-based hedge fund LionRock Capital Pte, will
also head the team, according to the statement.  GLG is starting its first team in Asia dedicated to seeking
opportunities in rising and falling stocks after Man Group last
year hired Mercurio as its first Asia-based  fund manager  focused
on stocks. Asia-Pacific including Japan and Australia now
account for about 30 percent of global stock market value,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “When we started the European Long Short strategy 11 years
ago, the environment in  Europe  looked very like it does in Asia
today, with strong longs and shorts likely to emerge,” Pierre Lagrange, GLG co-founder and chairman of Man Group’s Asia
business, said in the statement.  Mercurio and Freischmidt will be joined by David Walsh, a
specialist focused on investments in industrial companies, Nick Vidale who specializes in financial institutions, Sahil Khanna,
who follows consumer and telecommunications industries. Carl Esprey, who specializes in materials, will be based in  London ,
according to the statement.  GLG was  bought  by Man Group Plc in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  