-- Gold Beats Lafite as Wine Tracks China Stocks: Chart of the Day
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-07-15T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/gold-beats-lafite-as-wine-tracks-china-stocks-chart-of-the-day.html
Prices of the most-traded wines and
Chinese stocks have moved mostly in tandem the past year, a path
that has left investors worse off than those who bet on gold or
U.S. equities.  The CHART OF THE DAY compares the Liv-ex 100 Fine Wine Index,
compiled monthly, with daily moves of gold, the Shanghai
Composite Index and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index normalized
from April 18, 2011, when the Chinese stock measure reached its
high for the year. Gold and the U.S. benchmark index rose 5
percent and 2 percent through July 12, respectively, compared
with losses of 29 percent for  China  stocks in the period and 26
percent for wine through June, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  In the first half of last year “you had a lot of cheap
money in China, and that was the asset-grab phase,” said
Robert Sleigh, senior director and head of wine for  Asia  at
Sotheby’s in Hong Kong. “The tightening of liquidity in
mainland China meant people had less disposable income, and that
was a large part of what put the brakes on.”  The Shanghai Composite peaked in April 2011 as the
government raised borrowing costs to cool an economy fueled by 4
trillion  yuan  ($627 billion) of stimulus. Stock transactions
slumped as  money supply  tightened, with the 30-day average
trading  value  falling to a three-year low in January. Two
interest-rate cuts since June 8 have failed to boost the equity
index, which is near its lowest level since March 2009.  The Liv-ex 100 represents price movements of 100 of the
most-sought-after wines for which there is an active secondary
market, according to Liv-ex’s  website . The gauge, which rallied
to a record high in June 2011 on the strength of Chinese demand
for French red wines, is heavily weighted by the priciest
Bordeaux such as Chateau Lafite and Chateau Haut Brion.  “If you do a risk-adjusted liquidity assessment of gold
compared to small-cap Shanghai stocks and fine wine, it has the
best tradable liquidity,” said Hao Hong, chief China strategist
at Bocom International Holdings Co. Ltd. “Wine is illiquid, and
look at the volatility of the Shanghai market where trading
volume on some small- and medium-cap stocks is almost zero.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour, in  Hong Kong , at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech in  London  at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech . 