-- Libor Probe May Yield U.S. Charges by September
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-07-16T00:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/libor-probe-may-yield-u-s-charges-by-sepetmeber.html
Libor investigations on both sides
of the Atlantic intensified as  Barclays Plc (BARC)  traders could face
possible U.S. charges by September and British lawmakers may use
hearings this week to expand their inquiry to other banks tied
to the global financial scandal.  Barclays traders involved in allegedly manipulating Libor
rates between 2005 and 2007 may be charged by U.S. prosecutors
before the Labor Day holiday on Sept. 3, said a person familiar
with the  Justice Department  investigation in  Washington .  In  London , Financial Services Authority Chairman  Adair Turner  will appear today with  Andrew Bailey , head of U.K.
banking supervision, and Tracey McDermott, the agency’s acting
enforcement chief, at a parliamentary hearing where lawmakers
may seek to elicit information on how the regulator is expanding
its probe beyond Barclays.  “What they’d probably like to know from the FSA is what
other investigations are in progress and what stages they’re
at,” Ian Mason, a former director of the regulator’s
enforcement division and now an editor at the Practical Law Co.,
said in a telephone interview in London.  Confidence in the London interbank offered rate, or Libor,
a benchmark for financial products valued at $360 trillion
worldwide, has been dented by Barclays’s admission that it
submitted false rates.  Robert Diamond , who resigned as Barclays’
chief executive officer after the bank was fined
290 million pounds ($448 million), told British lawmakers
this month that other banks also low-balled submissions.  Additional Banks  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , UBS AG,  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  and Deutsche Bank AG are among the lenders regulators
in Europe, Asia and the U.S. are investigating.  U.S. prosecutors, in the late stages of negotiating
agreements with other banks that may have rigged Libor rates,
might produce a deal to match the Barclays accord before any
individual charges are filed, said the person familiar with the
American investigation, who asked not to be identified because
the probe is confidential.  The surprise negative reaction to the Barclays deal and the
resignations of Diamond, chairman Marcus Agius and Chief
Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier, may slow down Libor
negotiations with additional global banks, the person said.  Senior executives at other banks may question the wisdom of
full cooperation with U.S. prosecutors given what happened at
Barclays, the person said.  Other Agreements  Barclays had hoped to reach a multibank agreement with
regulators in the U.K. and U.S., said a person familiar with
those negotiations. The U.S. Commodities Futures Trading
Commission insisted that the Barclays agreement move forward
as soon as it was ready, rather than wait until the probes
involving other banks were completed, said the individual, who
declined to be identified because the talks were private.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for the Justice Department in
 New York , and  Steven Adamske , a spokesman for the CFTC in
Washington, declined to comment on the probes.  More Libor settlements could happen “before the end of the
year,” the FSA’s Turner said at the regulator’s annual
conference this month. How quickly that happens depends on the
“cooperation of firms and their willingness to settle.”  The FSA officials will be “very reluctant to identify
institutions, but could come under some pressure from the
committee,” Mason said.  Best Paid  Diamond, who was Britain’s best-paid bank CEO, opted to
forgo deferred bonuses valued at as much as 20 million pounds
when he stepped down following the public and political outcry
at Barclays’s role in the Libor scandal. The bank’s  shares  have
fallen 18 percent since the June 27 settlement with regulators.  Jerry Del Missier, the bank’s former chief operating
officer who also lost his job in the wake of the Libor scandal,
will appear at the committee at 4 p.m. today, before the FSA
officials.  Conservative lawmaker  Andrew Tyrie ’s Treasury Select
Committee has grilled Diamond, Agius and Bank of England Deputy
Governor  Paul Tucker  since the fine.  Tucker was questioned about his involvement in a 2008 phone
call with Diamond that suggested he hinted that London-based
Barclays should lower its Libor submissions. The 54-year-old
told lawmakers that the Libor investigation unveiled a
“cesspit” in the  City of London .  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted each day
on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in London. Lenders
are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from one another
for 15 different periods, from overnight to one year, in
currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss francs. After
a set number of quotes are excluded, those remaining are
averaged and published for each currency by the BBA before noon.  A total of 18 banks are surveyed as part of the process of
determining U.S. dollar Libor.  The U.K. Serious Fraud Office opened a criminal probe into
the attempted rigging of  interest rates  that led to the record
fine against Barclays. SFO Director  David Green  said he had
decided to “accept the Libor matter for investigation” in an
e-mailed statement July 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Farrell  in New York at   gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at   bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 