-- Tinkler Group Bids for Whitehaven Coal After Share Slide
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-07-16T01:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/tinkler-group-bids-for-whitehaven-coal-after-share-slide.html
Australian mining magnate  Nathan Tinkler  offered to buy the rest of  Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC)  with an
offer valuing it at A$5.3 billion ($5.4 billion) after a share
plunge since his initial proposal last month.  A Tinkler-led group made a conditional bid of A$5.20 cash
for each share of the owner of seven mines in New South Wales
state, Whitehaven said in a July 13 statement. The Sydney-based
company resumed trading today at 23 percent less than the offer
price.  Tinkler, 36, an electrician-turned-miner, is taking
advantage of a 17 percent slump in Whitehaven shares since June
13 when the miner rejected an initial offer that didn’t disclose
terms. The bid, which is subject to Tinkler’s group securing
funding, is “clearly not without risks,” Nomura  Australia  Ltd.
said in an e-mailed research note.  “It’s highly conditional on the fund package and the due
diligence process,” Ric Ronge, who helps manage about $1
billion at Pengana Global Resources Fund, including Whitehaven
shares, said by phone.  Whitehaven traded 59 cents higher at A$4.04 at 11:22 a.m.
in Sydney after rising as much as 21 percent. Tinkler holds 21.3
percent of Whitehaven, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The key to this bid is Tinkler securing debt funding,”
said Andrew Driscoll, head of resources research at CLSA Ltd. in
 Hong Kong . “He knows the assets very well and would have
confidence around the valuation. Companies that have good
quality assets and good growth profiles are still very
attractive investment propositions.”  Additional Cash  Increasing demand for coal in  China , India and  Japan  may
boost prices for the commodity used to produce steel and
generate electricity.  Tinkler Group has advised Whitehaven that about 48.3
percent of the company’s shareholders had expressed interest in
becoming stakeholders in the new company, Whitehaven said.  An independent committee concluded it will allow Tinkler
four weeks to conduct due diligence to develop the proposal,
Whitehaven said. The bidder has conditional letters of support
from UBS AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays Plc.  Mine Assets  There were 15 “buy” ratings, one “hold” and one
“sell” out of the 17 analyst recommendations compiled by
Bloomberg. The average price target of analysts for the stock
was A$4.65 before the bid was announced.  Whitehaven’s assets in New South Wales include the coking
coal Maules Creek mine, the thermal coal Rocglen operations, as
well as Sunnyside, Vickery, Werris Creek, and Tarrawonga,
according to its website. The company sold 1.4 million metric
tons in the first quarter, according to a regulatory filing.  There have been $21 billion of mergers and acquisition
deals in the coal industry announced or completed this year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The average premium for the
deals was 15 percent.  The latest takeover offer is priced at 3.69 times the
assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with the median of 2.27 times for 10 comparable deals.  The independent board committee appointed to examine bids
after Tinkler’s initial approach is being advised by Grant
Samuel Corporate Finance and Corrs Chambers Westgarth, according
to the statement.  Whitehaven ended talks for a possible takeover in May last
year after saying purchase proposals failed to reflect the value
of its assets. Final bidders included  India ’s Aditya Birla Group
and Peabody Energy Corp., the Australian Financial Review
reported at the time, without citing anybody.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co., which bought Australian coal
company Felix Resources Ltd. in 2009 for A$3.1 billion in
China’s biggest resources takeover, “looked at” Whitehaven,
Board Secretary Zhang Baocai said in April last year.  ArcelorMittal  Tinkler’s business journey began when he sold his house in
2006 to help buy the A$30 million Middlemount coal lease in
Australia’s Queensland state before selling it a year later to
Macarthur Coal Ltd. for about A$465 million in cash and shares.  In May 2008, Tinkler sold his Macarthur stake to
ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaker, at a profit of
about A$445 million. He then bought Maules Creek from Rio Tinto
Group for A$480 million in August 2010. Seeking funds to develop
the project, Tinkler listed Aston Resources, containing Maules
Creek, in August 2010, raising A$400 million.  Tinkler and his companies also own coal and metals mining
projects, infrastructure investments, a horse-breeding
operation, and the Newcastle Knights, a rugby league team in the
Australian coal port of Newcastle.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  