-- Israeli Inflation Slows as Economic Growth, Demand Moderate
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-07-15T16:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/israeli-inflation-slows-as-economic-growth-demand-moderate-1-.html
Israeli  inflation  eased in June by
more than expected to the slowest rate in five years, as
economic growth slowed, reducing consumer demand.  Consumer price growth slowed to 1 percent in the 12 months
through June, the lowest since Aug. 2007, compared with 1.6
percent the previous month, the  Central Bureau of Statistics 
reported today. The median estimate of 10 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg was for 1.3 percent increase. For the month, prices
fell 0.3 percent.  Economic growth is expected to decelerate to 3.1 percent
this year from 4.8 percent in 2011, according to central bank
estimates, as  Europe  struggles with a debt crisis and the global
expansion slows. More than 40 percent of  Israel ’s gross domestic
product is made up of exports, with Europe one of the largest
markets.  “It looks like the economy is slowing down,” Victor Bahar, deputy manager of Bank Hapoalim Ltd.’s economics
department, said prior to the announcement. “This affects
domestic demand, which in turn affects prices.”  The  Bank of Israel  cut the benchmark  interest rate  by a
quarter percentage point to 2.25 percent on June 25, the first
reduction in five months, citing a “high” level of global
economic risk.  The  International Monetary Fund  will cut its estimate for
global growth this year on weakness in investment, jobs and
manufacturing in Europe, the U.S., Brazil, India and China,
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said last week.  Growth Forecast  The Bank of Israel will probably lower its growth forecast
as well after the IMF update, said  Jonathan Katz , a Jerusalem-
based economist for HSBC Holdings Plc. The bank may lower the
interest rate by a quarter-point at the end of August, to 2
percent, he said.  Economists’ 12-month  inflation expectations  fell to 2
percent on average from 2.4 percent the previous month, the
central bank said on June 19. The government’s target is 1
percent to 3 percent.  The decline in gasoline prices and mobile phone service
costs contributed to the drop in the month-on-month index.
Gasoline prices, which are government-supervised, were lowered
by 2.9 percent on June 1, to 7.43 shekels per liter for 95
octane fuel, according to the Ministry of Energy and Water
Resources  website .  Mounting competition in the telecommunications industry has
reduced prices for mobile phone services, as new Israeli
providers including Hot Telecommunication System Ltd., Golan
Telecom Ltd. and Rami Levi Chain Stores Hashikma Marketing 2006
Ltd. began offering packages at reduced costs.  Bahar said consumer prices may pick up in coming months
because of increased taxes and higher agriculture prices.  Bank Hapoalim’s forecast for inflation in the coming year,
as of June 27, was 1.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  