-- Jump-Start Electric Car Market Via Buyers, not Automakers
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-15T22:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/jump-start-electric-car-market-via-buyers-not-automakers.html
Much has been made about the U.S.
government’s botched $535 million in loan guarantees to Solyndra
LLC, the California solar-panel maker whose business imploded,
leaving taxpayers burned.  Less known is that the government, in its quest to spur
investment in environmentally friendly vehicles, has been
handing out essentially free money to well-known companies that
don’t seem to need cheap credit.  Since 2009, the  Federal Financing Bank , the U.S. Treasury
Department bank that funded Solyndra, has been providing loans
with rates hovering near 1 percent to Nissan Corp., Ford Motor
Corp. and other companies to develop electric cars and other
fuel-efficient vehicles. These  loans , guaranteed by the U.S.
Department of Energy, so far total more than $8.4 billion and
extend for up to 30 years.  The theory behind the program is that cheap, risk-free
loans will encourage auto companies to invest in clean-energy
technology and production that they might not otherwise
bankroll.  Developing alternatives to gas-guzzling vehicles is a
worthy public goal, but providing loans to companies that can
get their own financing in the  capital markets  is a questionable
way to reach it. A better use of government money would be to
encourage consumer demand -- by continuing, and expanding, tax
credits or other incentives for people who buy vehicles that use
little or no gas.  To date, the Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing
program has made loans to five companies, including $5.9 billion
to Ford to upgrade auto plants across the U.S. and $1.4 billion
to Nissan to retool a Tennessee plant. Fisker Automotive --
which makes a luxury plug-in car that costs $103,000 -- got $529
million, and Tesla Motors got $465 million to build plug-in
vehicles and components. An additional $50 million is going to
the Vehicle Production Group to make a natural-gas-powered,
wheelchair-accessible van. Energy officials say the
administration continues to review additional projects.  The loans carry low interest because the Federal Financing
Bank bases its rates on Treasury’s borrowing costs. In May,  Ford
 (F) drew down  more than $148 million from a guaranteed loan with a
1.3 percent interest rate.  Such favorable terms, along with the government guarantee,
might be understandable if automakers were still struggling to
access private financing, as they were during the recession.
That’s not the case. Ford’s credit rating, for instance,
recently returned to investment-grade status. In June, the
company’s finance unit sold $1.5 billion of unsecured five-year
notes with a 3 percent coupon. Fisker Automotive, a closely held
company, has raised more than $1 billion in private funds from
investors such as actor  Leonardo DiCaprio .  The vehicle initiative is also experiencing hiccups. Fisker
has suffered battery-pack glitches and missed delivery deadlines
for a Delaware factory, resulting in its losing access to
federal funds. A 2011 Government Accountability Office report
faulted the DOE vehicle program for a lack of expertise and
performance measures.  The U.S. is already prodding companies to develop more
energy-efficient vehicles in other ways: President  Barack Obama ’s  fuel-efficiency   standards  will require cars to get 54.5
miles per gallon by 2025. Analysts say only so much of that gain
can come from improving gas-powered cars -- the rest will have
to come from using flexible fuels or electric models. The U.S.
tax code also offers  incentives  to purchase energy-efficient
cars, including a $7,500 credit for some hybrids and plug-in
vehicles.  The government should use its limited budget to extend and
expand these credits, or to provide refunds to people who buy
greener cars -- much as the Cash for Clunkers program did to
spark sales of more fuel-efficient cars.  If there’s any lesson from the 2008-2009 auto bailouts,
it’s that car companies should make the cars people actually
want to buy. Dangling carrots in front of those buyers to urge
them toward greater fuel efficiency is something the government
can usefully do.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  good news from Guantanamo  and
why  Jamie Dimon ’s bonus should be  clawed back ; William D. Cohan
on Romney’s  magical IRA ;  Albert R. Hunt  on the candidates’ need
to  spell out  debt-cutting plans; Anthony Luzzatto Gardner on
 Bain Capital under Romney ; Stephen Marche explains why  Canadians
are now richer  than Americans.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 