-- Kingfisher Resumes Flights After Cancellations That Irked Mallya
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2012-07-15T05:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/kingfisher-resumes-flights-after-cancellations-that-irked-mallya.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the Indian
carrier struggling with losses, said it will resume normal
service after earlier scrapping about 40 flights when some
employees refused to work because they haven’t been paid.  All flights will be operating as scheduled, the company
said in a statement in Mumbai late yesterday. The disruption led
billionaire Chairman  Vijay Mallya  to warn that workers who stay
away may hamper efforts to revive the airline.  “Damaging the future of Kingfisher in the public eyes is
not going to produce cash,” Mallya said in a letter to
employees posted on the company’s website on July 14. “This
only makes my recapitalization efforts more difficult by causing
concern and apprehension among our potential investors.”  Kingfisher’s market share in April dropped to the  lowest 
among  India ’s six airline operators from second in October as it
ended a discount service and grounded planes following more than
10 quarters of losses. The airline is operating 20 planes after
reducing services to about 120 a day, compared with 66 aircraft
and about 340 daily flights in March 2011.  More than 75 percent of employees received their salaries
on the “committed” date of July 13, Kingfisher said yesterday,
adding it assured staff the rest will get paid on July 16.  Kingfisher may post a loss of as much as 14 billion rupees
($254 million) this fiscal year and needs about $1 billion of
funds, CAPA Centre for Aviation, an industry consultant, said in
May. The airline has pledged its brand, office furniture and
other assets against 64.2 billion rupees of  debt , Junior Finance
Minister Namo Narain Meena said in parliament in  New Delhi  on
Dec. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ; 