-- Knicks’ Jason Kidd Charged With DWI After Car Crash in Hamptons
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/knicks-kidd-is-charged-with-dwi-after-crashing-car-in-hamptons.html
Jason Kidd  was charged with driving
while intoxicated following a single-car accident in the
Hamptons yesterday, the latest offseason twist in the point
guard situation for the  New York  Knicks.  Kidd, 39, joined the Knicks this month after five National
Basketball Association seasons with the  Dallas Mavericks .  The Knicks have until tomorrow to decide whether they’ll
match the three-year, $25 million offer sheet Jeremy Lin
received from the  Houston Rockets . They’re also close to
completing a sign-and-trade agreement with the Portland Trail
Blazers to acquire free agent point guard  Raymond Felton , Sports
Illustrated reported, citing Felton’s agent Tony Dutt.  Kidd’s 2010 Cadillac Escalade struck a telephone pole and
then went into the woods at 1:56 a.m. yesterday morning, the
Southampton Town Police Department said in a news release.  Kidd’s attorney Edward Burke Jr. said in a statement that
Kidd suffered minor injuries and has pleaded not guilty. The
Knicks didn’t immediately comment on the incident and the NBA
said it was monitoring the situation.  Kidd was the only occupant of the vehicle and the crash
occurred near the intersection of Cobb Road and Little Cobb Road
in the hamlet of Water Mill, according to police.  After being released from the hospital, Kidd was taken to
police headquarters, where he was held until his arraignment in
the morning before being released on his own recognizance,
Southampton police said.  Kidd had attended a benefit honoring movie director  George Lucas  at a private residence in East Hampton on the night of
July 14, New York Newsday reported. Burke said Kidd had been
attending a charity event, without disclosing details.  Kidd has 11,842 career assists, second in NBA history to
Hall of Fame point guard John Stockton. He’s averaged 13 points,
nine assists and 6.4 rebounds over 18 NBA seasons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  