-- Knicks Should Let Jeremy Lin Sign With Rockets, Executives Say
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-07-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/knicks-may-give-up-lin-as-felton-returns-houston-chronicle-says.html
The  New York Knicks  may be better
off if they let Jeremy Lin sign with Houston instead of matching
the Rockets’ offer for the point guard, sports executives said.  Lin has agreed on a three-year, $25 million deal with the
Rockets that will pay him $14.8 million in the third year, ESPN
reported. The Knicks have until midnight tomorrow to match the
offer or let the restricted free agent leave.  Lin, a Harvard University graduate who is the first
Taiwanese- or Chinese-American to play in the  National
Basketball Association , expanded the marketing opportunities for
the team and the league into the world’s biggest market when he
took over as the Knicks’ floor leader. He started 25 games and
would have to maintain the standard he achieved in his first
season with the team to justify such a financial commitment,
 Steve Mills , a former president at Madison Square Garden, said
in a phone interview.  “Whatever the numbers are for salary and luxury taxes, you
can assess that pretty quickly and decide if it’s worth it,”
Mills said yesterday in a phone interview. “But if he doesn’t
pan out to be as good a player as he seems he’s going to be,
that contract constricts the Knicks in their future basketball
decisions.”  If the Knicks agree to match the Houston offer, they would
have to pay Lin,  Carmelo Anthony , Amar’e Stoudemire and  Tyson Chandler  a combined $75 million in 2014-15. Next season, teams
have to pay the NBA $1 in tax for every $1 their player payroll
exceeds $70.3 million.  ESPN reported yesterday that it was unlikely the Knicks
would match the offer, citing two unidentified people in the
team’s organization.  ‘Too Big’  “Maybe the Knicks have made the decision that it will have
too big an impact in the third year on the salary cap,” Bob Gutkowski, the president of Madison Square Garden Inc. from
1991-94, said in a telephone interview. “Putting that poison
pill in for the third year may also be a sign that Lin didn’t
want to play for the Knicks anymore.”  The Knicks may be covered at point guard without Lin. They
agreed to sign guard  Raymond Felton  from the  Portland Trail
Blazers , the Houston Chronicle said, citing his agent, Tony Dutt. They also acquired  Jason Kidd , a 39-year-old guard who is
second in assists in NBA history, from the  Dallas Mavericks , and
Pablo Prigioni, 35, from the Spanish league. Kidd yesterday was
charged with driving while intoxicated after crashing his car
into a telephone pole in the Hamptons.  Jonathan Supranowitz , a spokesman for the Knicks, declined
to comment in an e-mail on Lin’s future.  Lin was cut by the  Golden State Warriors  and the Rockets
before the Knicks picked him up in December. He had a base
salary of about $762,000 last season.  Starting Streak  The 23-year-old Lin became a sensation when the Knicks
elevated him from benchwarmer in February amid injuries. Lin
helped New York to win six straight games after he entered the
starting lineup two days after scoring 25 points in a win over
the  New Jersey Nets  on Feb. 4.  Lin started in 25 of his 35 games for the Knicks, averaging
14.6 points and 6.2 assists. He had surgery in April to repair a
meniscus tear in his left knee and missed the opening-round
playoff series with the  Miami Heat , which New York lost 4-1.
Coach  Mike Woodson  said the injury wouldn’t affect the team’s
decision to keep him.  The Knicks may be more concerned with Lin’s ability to
direct a contending team than balking at payments ESPN put at $5
million and $5.23 million in the first two years, said  Stan Kasten , a former executive with the NBA’s Atlanta Hawks who is
now an owner of baseball’s  Los Angeles Dodgers .  Player Question  “In years one and two, they’ll easily make the money back
from the fans packing the newly renovated Garden to see someone
they want, because he’s so popular,” Kasten said in an e-mail.
“My question is, how do they really feel about him as a
player?”  Lin’s rise to prominence boosted business for the Knicks.
Ticket prices surged, while the team’s parent,  Madison Square
Garden Co. (MSG) , settled a carriage-fee dispute with  Time Warner
Cable Inc. (TWC)  and doubled advertising rates on MSG as its shares
hit a record.  Lin’s jersey became a top seller in the NBA’s online store,
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  added courtside advertisements in Chinese at
Madison Square Garden and the team owner fielded inquiries from
Asia-based companies seeking an affiliation with the franchise.  “The business guys probably said there’s a lot of money
tied up in this guy from the marketing standpoint and that had
to go into the formula,” Gutkowski said. “But I always have to
caution that he only began 25 games and he could have been a
marketing phenomenon this year, maybe the beginning of next
year, and then sustained a bad injury or not be the player you
thought he was.”  Marketing Risk  Because of that risk, the marketing department probably
couldn’t produce reliable forecasts that would justify paying
Lin almost $15 million in 2014-15, Richard Peddie, the former
chief executive officer of Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment,
said in an e-mail.  “Very few players can move the revenue dial on their
own,” Peddie said. “And besides, New York is already loaded
with stars that will help sell tickets and sponsorships. Net,
net, I would not do the deal for business reasons.”  The Rockets originally offered Lin a four-year agreement
that was worth $9 million in each of the last two years,
according to ESPN. They may have been persuaded to revise that
because of their experience with  Yao Ming , a center from China
who retired a year ago after eight years with Houston.  “The Rockets have some experience of trying to extract
revenues out of the Asian market,” Mills said. “So they
probably thought it’s worth going as far as they can from a
business perspective to get Lin.”  Lin, who trademarked the term “Linsanity” in May, has
again shown his acumen by renegotiating his deal with the
Rockets, Gutkowski said.  “If the Knicks don’t pick him up, he overplayed his hand
with them but he’s got a fair amount of money from the
Rockets,” Gutkowski said. “To get a $25 million contract,
that’s not too shabby.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  