-- Nokia Shares Decline as Flagship U.S. Handset Price Drops
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-07-16T10:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/nokia-lumia-900-drops-to-49-99-as-phone-maker-seeks-comeback.html
The price of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s Lumia 900,
the smartphone the company is counting on to revive U.S. sales,
was cut in half at  AT&T Inc. (T)  stores in a sign the device is
struggling to lure users away from the iPhone and Android models.  Nokia  fell  as much as 3.9 percent in Helsinki. The phone is
now available for $49.99 with a two-year contract, according to
 AT&T’s website . The largest U.S. phone company began offering
the device in April. The latest versions of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone
and Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy S, which runs on  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, start at $199.99 at AT&T.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop has placed Nokia’s
bets on the Lumia series, which uses  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows
Phone operating system, to stem declines in revenue and market
share. Lumia sales have been disappointing and the current
versions risk becoming less attractive because they can’t be
upgraded to run the Windows Phone 8 software due out later this
year, said  Michael Schroeder , a FIM Bank analyst in Helsinki.  “Nokia cutting the price on the Lumia probably has to do
with the phone not being compatible with the next version of the
Windows Phone operating system and it needing to clear out its
inventory,” Schroeder said in a phone interview. “Nobody will
want to buy the current version once the new operating system is
out.”  Nokia declined as much as 5.9 cents to 1.45 euros and
traded at 1.48 euros at 1:04 p.m. Helsinki time. Falling revenue
and  mounting losses  have left the company’s stock near its
lowest level since 1996.  ‘Accessible Price’  Nokia, scheduled to report results for the second quarter
on July 19, said last month that adjusted operating margin at
its devices unit would be worse than a loss equivalent to 3
percent of revenue in the first quarter. Lumia shipments will
probably drop below 3 million units in the third quarter from
the second quarter’s 3.3 million, Schroeder projects.  The price reduction at AT&T reflects standard practice in
the industry, said  Doug Dawson , a spokesman for Nokia. The
subsidized price consumers pay when agreeing to a contract with
a carrier doesn’t necessarily reflect the actual cost of the
phone, he said in an e-mail.  “I realize we’re under a microscope at the moment and
everything we do is under closer scrutiny, but this move is a
normal strategy that is put in place during the lifecycle of
most phones, and allows a broader consumer base to buy this
flagship device at a more accessible price,” Dawson said.  North America  was the only region where Nokia’s handset
shipments grew sequentially in the first quarter, helped by the
release of the Lumia 710 on  T-Mobile USA . Still, the 600,000
units shipped marked a 50 percent decline from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  