-- Oil Drops From One-Week High on Concern China Economy Weakening
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-07-16T06:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/oil-trades-near-one-week-high-as-u-s-spending-may-boost-demand.html
Oil fell from the highest close in
more than a week after Premier  Wen Jiabao  said  China ’s economic
recovery hasn’t gained momentum, stoking speculation that demand
may ease in the world’s second-biggest crude consumer.  Futures slid as much as 0.6 percent in  New York , declining
for the first time in four days. Wen said “difficulties” may
persist for a while, according to the official Xinhua News
Agency. Abu Dhabi started exporting its first crude through a
pipeline to the Indian Ocean port of Fujairah, bypassing the
 Strait of Hormuz , the oil-transit chokepoint that  Iran 
threatened to shut earlier this year in response to sanctions on
its nuclear program.  “It’s not surprising that we’re seeing some selling on top
of the somewhat gloomy picture Wen Jiabao painted,” said  Victor Shum , the managing director of IHS Consulting in Singapore.
“News that this Abu Dhabi pipeline is in operation certainly
helps relieve some of the worries over tanker blockage at the
Strait of Hormuz.”  Oil for August delivery dropped as much as 52 cents to
$86.58 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $86.77 at 2:25 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract gained 1.2 percent to $87.10 on July 13, the highest
close since July 5. Prices are 12 percent lower this year.  Brent crude  for August settlement was unchanged at $102.40
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The
contract expires today. The more-active September future was at
$101.32, down 10 cents. The European benchmark’s  premium  to West
Texas Intermediate was at $15.63, from $15.30 on July 13.  Bullish Bets  Oil in New York is declining as futures approach a so-
called “death cross” technical formation, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The 100-day moving average, at $96.16 a
barrel today, has almost erased a premium to the 200-day mean at
$96.07. Investors typically sell contracts when a shorter moving
average falls below a longer one. Crude has resistance along the
50-day average at $87.18.  Hedge funds  cut bullish oil wagers for the first time in
three weeks, according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on July 13. Money
managers reduced net-long positions by 5.1 percent in the seven
days ended July 10, the report showed.  In China, Wen’s comments followed data that showed Asia’s
largest economy had the weakest expansion in three years as
Europe’s fiscal crisis sapped exports and a crackdown on
property speculation curbed domestic demand. Even so, the pace
of economic expansion is within the targeted range and
government measures to stabilize growth are “bearing fruit,”
he said yesterday, according to the report from Xinhua.  Oil Pipeline  The country processed oil at the slowest rate in eight
months in June. Refining slid to 8.79 million barrels a day last
month, the least since October and down 3.4 percent from May,
according to July 13 data from the National Bureau of
Statistics.  “News of China’s slowing growth is affecting markets,”
Robin Mills, the head of consulting at Dubai-based Manaar Energy
Consulting and Project Management, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “The opening of the Fujairah pipeline that bypasses
the Strait of Hormuz also means improved security.”  The crude line built by  Abu Dhabi , the capital of the
United Arab Emirates and holder of more than 90 percent of its
oil, will work as an export route that avoids Hormuz at the
mouth of the  Persian Gulf . The system stretches from Abu Dhabi
to the neighboring sheikhdom of Fujairah on the  Gulf of Oman .
The link was loading its first shipment of 500,000 barrels to
Pakistan’s Pak Arab Refinery Ltd., Mohamed Bin Dhaen Al-Hamli,
oil minister for the U.A.E, said yesterday at a ceremony to
inaugurate the network.  The average price for regular gasoline at U.S. filling
stations fell 6.77 cents in the past three weeks to $3.4103 a
gallon, according to Lundberg Survey Inc. That is down 20.47
cents from a year earlier. The survey covers the three weeks
ended July 13 and is based on information received from about
2,500 stations by the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in  Singapore  at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  