-- Hollande Pressure on Peugeot Seen Limited by Mounting Losses
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-07-16T15:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/hollande-pressure-on-peugeot-seen-limited-by-mounting-losses.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
says  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ’s plan to close a factory and slash
14,000 jobs won’t be tolerated. History suggests otherwise.  In the last major clash between a sitting French president
and a company over corporate downsizing, Hollande’s predecessor
 Nicolas Sarkozy  vowed in 2008 that an  ArcelorMittal (MT)  plant in
northeastern  France  would never close and jobs would be saved. A
year later, the world’s biggest steel company shut the factory.  Hollande, elected in May after pledging to block a “parade
of firings,” said July 14 he would lean on Peugeot to rework a
plan intended to stem  losses  and trim production capacity. The
government will report the findings of a review later this
month, as well as measures to prop up the French auto sector.  “The state has no means to put pressure on Peugeot,”
Florent Couvreur, an analyst at CM-CIC Securities in Paris.
“We’ll see the plan they will present on July 25.”  Peugeot doesn’t have much wiggle room to amend its plan.
 Europe ’s second-largest carmaker is burning through 200 million
euros ($245 million) of cash each month and Moody’s Investors
Service placed its Ba1 rating, already junk, on review for a
possible downgrade on July 13. The  stock  fell 7.7 percent to a
new 23-year low that day on concern the government will try to
dilute the plan and possibly end up taking a stake in company.  A representative for Peugeot declined to comment on
Hollande’s remarks. Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin said
in an interview on RTL radio on July 13 that he’s ready to
“open the books” to the government to show that French labor
costs are too high. Another round of car-scrapping incentives
isn’t the answer, Varin said.  Shares Drop  The shares  dropped  44 cents, or 6.8 percent, to 6.04 euros
in Paris trading today. The automaker has plunged 77 percent in
the last year, valuing Peugeot at 2.14 billion euros.  The company’s reliance on France and southern Europe for
sales has made it more vulnerable to the economic slump than
 Renault SA (RNO) , which has a partnership with Nissan Motor Co., and
 Fiat SpA (F) , whose ownership of Chrysler LLC in the U.S. has
compensated for widening losses in Europe.  Hollande, who took office on May 15, is squeezed between
the demands of his union supporters and plans by some of
France’s largest companies to reduce their workforce to adjust
to slower economic growth. Air France-KLM Group, Europe’s
largest airline, is eliminating more than 5,000 positions.
Drugmaker  Sanofi (SAN)  may reduce staff by more than 2,000.  High Unemployment  “This is a case that goes far beyond Peugeot
politically,” said Bernard Jullien, an industrial economist
with French automotive think-tank Gerpisa.  The French economy, Europe’s second-biggest, failed to grow
in the first three months of the year. The Bank of France
estimates that it probably shrank in the second quarter for the
first time since 2009. The number of people looking for work in
France was 2.92 million in May, more than at any time since
1999. The  unemployment rate  is 10 percent.  Hollande said that the state can’t be “indifferent” to
Peugeot’s woes and that the  carmaker ’s current plan, which
includes 8,000 more job cuts than announced last year, is
“unacceptable.” Peugeot’s plant in Aulnay near Paris could
continue to exist as an industrial site, Hollande also said in a
televised interview.  Mounting Losses  The government’s goal is to save more of Peugeot’s jobs,
ensure there are no forced firings and soften the blow for the
workers involved. It may also provide incentives to spur sales
of environmentally friendly cars. Peugeot, which last year paid
back a 3 billion-euro loan from the French state, said last week
its automotive division will post a first-half operating loss of
700 million euros.  After ArcelorMittal in 2009 closed a plant at Gandrange in
northeastern France, a decision that cost 571 jobs, a tombstone
was placed in front of the factory with the inscription “Here
lie the promises of Nicolas Sarkozy.”  Sarkozy had asked ArcelorMittal’s Chief Executive Officer
 Lakshmi Mittal  to revise the plan and his government said it was
ready to “temporarily” take over plants that the company
planned to close in France. Gandrange produced steel for the
auto and construction industries.  The French state doesn’t own a stake in ArcelorMittal or
Peugeot, reducing its potential influence over the companies.
The government is the largest shareholder in Renault, the
country’s second-largest carmaker.  French Paradox  Hollande said that generating jobs is his top priority,
even as his popularity shows signs of waning. Support for the
new president has dropped 7 points in the past month to 56
percent, according to an Ifop poll published July 11.  Coming to the rescue in a bid to reduce job cuts will only
reduce France’s competitiveness in the longer term, analysts
said.  “The paradox is that this puts pressure on the government
to address a short-term problem when what is required is long-
term solutions,” said  Antonio Barroso , an analyst at Eurasia
Group in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net 
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net 
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  