-- London Self-Regulatory System Proves Illusory in Libor Scandal
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-07-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/london-self-regulatory-system-proves-illusory-in-libor-scandal.html
As long ago as June 2008, New York
Federal Reserve President  Timothy F. Geithner  was warning the
Bank of England that letting bankers set the benchmark interest
rate for global finance was open to abuse.  Governor  Mervyn King ’s failure then to take greater
responsibility for Libor now poses a new threat to London’s
drive to rival New York in the battle for a larger share of a
shrinking international financial industry.  “As a company, we now avoid London,” said  David Kotok ,
who manages about $2 billion as chief investment officer at
Cumberland Advisors Inc. in Sarasota, Florida. “It’s tarnished.
Passing the buck to others, shirking responsibility and avoiding
accountability characterizes the people at work there.”  Not only has the scandal dealt another blow to the self-
regulatory model that was the hallmark of Britain’s longest
stretch of growth for 200 years, it is throwing into question
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s plan to put the Bank of England
in primary charge of banking regulation.  The financial-services industry faces “a crisis of trust
and reputation” after years of light-touch oversight created a
culture of “cynical greed” laid bare by the Libor crisis,
 Adair Turner , current chairman of the U.K. Financial Services
Authority, said July 3.  Second Week  Bank of England officials may now face a second week of
grilling by lawmakers on whether they did enough to stamp out
manipulation of the London interbank offered rate, the benchmark
for $360 trillion of securities. About a dozen banks are under
investigation for rigging the rate, with  Barclays Plc (BARC)  already
paying a record fine and ousting its top three executives.
Turner and deputy governor  Paul Tucker  will tomorrow join King
to testify on the bank’s latest Financial Stability report.  The U.K. central bank has so far defended itself by saying
it thought the system was dysfunctional rather than dishonest
and that it lacked the powers to effect change. Geithner, now
the U.S. Treasury secretary, nevertheless put its officials back
on the defensive at the end of last week with the release of a
2008 memo listing ways to make Libor more transparent.  Among the advice given, Geithner sought new procedures to
“prevent accidental or deliberate misreporting” of Libor.
While King called the recommendations “sensible,’ he left it to
the British Bankers’ Association, which compiles Libor and was
reviewing Libor at the time, to decide on whether they should be
implemented. The Bank of England said in a statement last week
that it didn’t have “any regulatory responsibilities in this
area.”  Sleeping on Job?  “It looks like the Bank of England was sleeping on the
job,” said Kent Matthews, a finance professor at Cardiff
University Business School and former researcher at the central
bank. “They may be capable of taking on the regulatory powers,
but the question is whether they have the credibility. They
weren’t looking at the right thing.”  Andrew Tyrie , chairman of the U.K. parliament’s Treasury
committee, told Tucker on July 9 that the bank’s handling of
Libor during 2008 “doesn’t look good.” Tucker asked to testify
to lawmakers two weeks ago after Barclays released e-mails
suggesting he had hinted the lender should lower its Libor
submissions.  The controversy is the latest episode to reverberate
through London after a year in which the city played host to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s $4.4 billion trading loss and the alleged
$2.3 billion fraud at  UBS AG. (UBSN)  London was also where  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
booked transactions that helped lead to their 2008 downfall.  London’s Fate  While research firm Z/Yen Group Ltd. ranks the U.K. capital
as the world’s No. 1 financial hub, the Libor case “has an
adverse effect on London as a financial centre and decisive
steps need to be taken,” said  Jon Moulton , founder of venture-
capital firm Better Capital LLP.  The government is already moving to prevent a rerun of the
regulatory missteps that were laid bare by the financial crisis.
In 2010, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  announced
that he wanted to abolish the FSA, the financial watchdog set up
in 1997 by the previous Labour government, and give most of its
powers to the Bank of England.  The plan, which still needs parliamentary approval, would
kill the regulatory regime whose light-touch approach has been
blamed for failing to prevent the near-collapse of  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and Lloyds Banking Group as well as the run
on Northern Rock Plc.  Failed Model  Another nail may be hammered into the self-regulation model
when Martin Wheatley, head of the FSA’s financial conduct
division, publishes a review of Libor next month. His inquiry
will look into whether setting the rate should be regulated,
whether actual trade data can be used to set the benchmark, and
whether officials have enough power to punish financial
misconduct, Osborne said this month.  Spurred on by officials such as Geithner, the U.S. is
moving faster than the U.K. to build a post-crisis financial
framework. President  Barack Obama  in July 2010 signed the 2,300-
page Dodd-Frank law. Regulators are also working to complete
rules including a ban on proprietary trading by banks -- the so-
called Volcker rule -- and requirements that most over-the-
counter derivatives be guaranteed by central clearinghouses and
traded on transparent platforms.  Still, the U.S. has little room to lecture the world given
its subprime mortgage woes set in train a crisis that tipped the
world into recession, said  Robert Skidelsky , professor emeritus
at Warwick University.  U.S. Bank Collapse  “The Americans are wrong in saying London was in some
sense the cause of everything,” said Skidelsky. “The big
collapse is in the American banking system.”  Harvard University professor Niall Ferguson also warns the
U.K. should also be wary of imposing too many curbs on business.
Financial services are the U.K.’s largest export and pay 12
percent of the country’s tax receipts.  “Banks are on the receiving end of a raft of financial
regulation that is killing their business model,” Ferguson said
at a conference in London on June 27.  The irony is that the Bank of England is being given more
powers just as its track record for monitoring the City is
being criticized.  “Everyone has said it’s too much for one man or woman,”
said Dan Conaghan, author of the book, “The Bank: Inside the
Bank of England.” “The job description is a huge amount more
than the current governor has to do.”  Play Safe  The Libor turmoil may encourage Osborne to look beyond
London’s financial district when King retires next June and
appoint someone seen as untainted by the woes to rock the City
since 2007, said Conaghan.  Leading candidates include Turner of the FSA,  Gus O’Donnell , the former head of the U.K. civil service, Bank of
Canada Governor  Mark Carney  and Osborne adviser James Sassoon.  “They’re going to play it exceptionally safe,” said
Conaghan. Tucker, the BOE’s top internal candidate, may now have
a “black mark” against his name.  London can still recover from the raft of scandals, and the
central bank may be able to defend its actions by pointing to
their context. The Bank of England was trying to fight the worst
financial crisis since the Depression within a regulatory
environment that deprived it of the legal power to force change.  King has recently also shown a greater willingness to take
on a more muscular attitude to errant banks. King told Barclays
Chairman Marcus Agius on July 2 that then-Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond  had lost the support of regulators.
Diamond’s departure was announced the next morning.  “London as a financial center is far bigger than Libor,”
said Jim  Irvine , head of fixed-income at Henderson Global
Investors in London. “We shouldn’t lose sight of the fact that,
at the time, the thing we were losing sleep over was the
potential implosion of the financial sector. The U.S. got
through subprime, and London can get through Libor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  