-- London House Prices Plunge as Supply Rise Adds to Lull
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-07-16T10:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/london-house-prices-plunge-as-supply-surge-adds-to-summer-lull.html
London  home sellers cut prices by a
record for the month of July as an increase in supply added to
pressure on the  property market  during the traditional summer
lull,  Rightmove Plc (RMV)  said.  Asking prices dropped 3.6 percent from June to an average
460,304 pounds ($715,600), the operator of Britain’s biggest
property website said in an e-mailed report today. Across
England and  Wales ,  values  fell 1.7 percent to 242,097 pounds.  Property demand weakened in July as bad weather curbed
viewings and this month’s London Olympics added to
“distractions,” according to Rightmove. As Britain’s housing
market struggles to recover, the  Bank of England  announced
details last week of its new lending program aimed at boosting
credit to the economy.  “The housing market remains heavily depressed,” Victoria Clarke, an economist at Investec Securities in London, said in a
telephone interview. “It fits in with the general backdrop of
consumers and households being very nervous about the economic
outlook, and if supply continues to come on line, it’s possible
we could see further price moves downwards.”  In a separate report today, the Ernst & Young Item Club
said that  house prices  will fall 2 percent this year, leaving
them 8 percent below the 2008 peak in nominal terms, and down 24
percent in real terms. The group, which produces forecasts from
a model similar to that of the U.K. Treasury, cut its forecast
for  gross domestic product  and predicted no growth this year.  London Falling  In London, part of the price decline may have reflected a
tax increase on properties costing at least 2 million pounds,
announced by the government in March, Rightmove said. Values in
Kensington and Chelsea, the capital’s most expensive district,
fell 5.1 percent in July to 2.03 million pounds.  The drop in London follows “several months of fairly heady
price increases,” said  Miles Shipside , commercial director of
Rightmove. “It might just be that the market is finding a price
level where buyers and sellers are willing to transact.”  The number of new sellers rose 6 percent in July from June,
Rightmove said. The biggest decline in asking prices was
recorded in Brent, down 8.9 percent, followed by Kingston-upon-
Thames, down 5.8 percent. Hackney and Greenwich were the only
districts to record increases. Values in London were up 6.4
percent in July from a year earlier.  “This increase in seller numbers is unusual at this time
of year when there is traditionally less buyer activity, and is
made even more surprising given the proximity to Olympic
distractions and upheaval,” Shipside said.  ‘Miserable’ Weather  Nationally, growth in property supply outpaced demand by a
ratio of 2:1 due to “miserable” viewing weather, Rightmove
said. The  Met Office  said Britain suffered the wettest June for
over a century “followed up by a very wet start to July.”  Of the 10 regions tracked by Rightmove, only one, the West
Midlands, recorded a monthly increase in prices in July. Average
house values rose 2.3 percent from a year earlier.  With economies around the globe faltering, the  European
Central Bank  earlier this month lowered borrowing costs to a
record low, saying some risks to the economic outlook have
materialized while inflationary pressure “has been dampened
further.” U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will
address the outlook for growth when he testifies at Congress
this week and may hint at possible steps to revive growth.  The yield on  Germany ’s  five-year note  fell two basis points
today to 0.286 at 11:08 a.m. in London. The euro weakened 0.5
percent to $1.2185. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  slid 0.1 percent.  Euro Area Inflation  Inflation in the euro area held at the lowest since
February 2011 last month and imports fell in May, according to
European Union reports today. The  inflation rate  in the 17-
nation euro area remained at 2.4 percent, the same as in May,
the EU’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said, confirming an
initial estimate published on June 29.  Euro-area imports fell a seasonally adjusted 0.9 percent
from April, while exports grew 0.3 percent, a separate report
showed.  Elsewhere,  India ’s inflation eased in June, with the
benchmark wholesale-price  index  posting a 7.25 percent gain from
a year earlier, after a 7.55 percent increase in May, the
Commerce Ministry said in a statement in  New Delhi  today.  Sales at U.S. retailers probably rose in June for the first
time in three months, reflecting a pickup in demand for
automobiles that outshined spending on other goods, economists
said before a report at 8:30 a.m. Washington time.  The projected 0.2 percent gain in purchases would follow a
0.2 percent decline in May, according to the  median  forecast of
72 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of the Commerce
Department figures.  Other data today from the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
are projected to show  factories in its region expanded  at a
faster pace in July. A 10 a.m. report from the Commerce
Department may show inventories at U.S. businesses increased.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  