-- Prada Skips German Department Stores Missing Luxury Boom
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-07-15T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/prada-skips-german-department-stores-missing-luxury-boom-retail.html
Frankfurt  lawyer Mareike Gruhn
spends at least 500 euros ($610) a month buying designer
products from luxury labels including  Jimmy Choo  and Prada.
Retailers such as  Kaufhof  and Karstadt never see a dime of it.  “Department stores in Germany are a bit trashy,” said 36-
year-old Gruhn. “I never buy clothes in department stores and
don’t even look at what’s on the shelves.”  In a land known for its thrifty citizens, German department
stores are missing out on a shift to luxury. Spending at the
outlets, which date back as far as the 19th century, has fallen
3.9 percent since 2009 as the richest shoppers have sought
designer gear at single-label stores, driving luxury expenditure
up by 16 percent to 12.9 billion euros last year.  Kaufhof owner  Metro AG (MEO)  has sought unsuccessfully for more
than four years to exit the chain, whose sales declined 3.7
percent in 2011.  “German department stores are not yet fully realizing the
potential to exploit in the premium and luxury segments,” Mirko
Warschun, head of  A.T. Kearney GmbH’s  consumer industries and
retail practice in Munich, said in a phone interview. “ Germany 
is not a booming luxury market like  China , but it is a strong
and resilient market in western Europe.”  The growth of the German luxury market last year outpaced a
9 percent increase worldwide, according to figures from trade
association  Meisterkreis . Department stores accounted for less
than 4 percent of the total amount spent, Meisterkreis said.  Prada, Cartier  The stores’ aversion to luxury is illustrated at the
Kaufhof store in Frankfurt, where no piece of clothing or
footwear in the front window costs more than 100 euros and the
sixth-floor hairdresser offers a cut for 22 euros. At the nearby
Vuitton store, items on display from the street include a 4,550-
euro suitcase, a 1,340-euro dress and a jacket for 775 euros.  Labels such as  Prada (1913)  and Cartier, readily available at the
Printemps outlet in Paris or Harrods in  London , can’t be found
at Kaufhof or Essen-based  Karstadt , which mostly offer mid-
market labels such as Esprit and Gerry Weber.  The German chains may not consider the investment needed to
gain a luxury footing worthwhile because consumers don’t
associate them with premium brands and their stores aren’t
regarded as tourist destinations like Harrods or Printemps, said
Warschun.  “It requires so much investment and they have a limited
budget,” he said. “Consumers don’t associate Kaufhof to a
premium brand and will still rather go to a luxury-store
shopping street where the shopping experience is nicer.”  Kaufhof’s products are tailored specifically to each of the
retailer’s 141 locations, said a spokeswoman who asked not to be
identified. Karstadt didn’t respond to requests seeking comment.  Kaufhof Conservatism  Unlike department stores, luxury brands are jumping on
opportunities afforded by a country which, according to
researcher Euromonitor International, had the highest disposable
income in western  Europe  last year at $2.4 trillion.  The number of “monolabel” luxury stores in Germany rose
28 percent from 2007 to 2011, according to Meisterkreis. The
country is one of only a few in Europe where Italian luxury
brand Ermenegildo Zegna isn’t losing local customers, the
company’s eponymous chief executive officer said in an
interview.  While luxury stores flourish, Dusseldorf-based Metro is
paying the price of Kaufhof’s conservatism. Metro, Germany’s
biggest retailer, halted negotiations in January to dispose of
the chain, where sales have declined 4.4 percent over the past
five years. Since it first sought to exit the business in March
2008,  Metro shares  have fallen 61 percent. Over the same period,
the Bloomberg European Fashion Index of luxury stocks has
dropped 24 percent.  “The priority for Metro is to sell Kaufhof,” said Marc Renaud, who manages about 850 million euros at Mandarine Gestion
in Paris, adding that the chain is “a catastrophe.” Renaud
sold his stake in Metro, which represented 3.7 percent of his
portfolio, last year.  Clear Choice  The number of German department stores declined to 247 at
the end of 2011, down a third from 2006, according to
 Euromonitor . In  France , numbers have remained stable in the
period, while in the U.K. they have risen by about 20 percent.  Amid the stratification in spending, the Germans could take
a lesson from their neighbors. France’s Printemps has been
positioning itself as a luxury retailer to attract customers and
reported a 13 percent increase in revenue last year.  “Our choice has been very clear that we made several years
ago, and that is to move toward a luxury positioning and offer
the luxury customer the best possible shopping experience,”
Printemps CEO Paolo De Cesare said in an interview.  Outdated Format  In the U.K., Harrods has made window displays a unique
selling point. The luxury store exhibited a crystal forest
showcasing Swarovski pieces at Christmas and celebrated Queen Elizabeth II’s Diamond Jubilee with crowns and royal mannequins.  “Excitement is why you get carried away with spending,”
said Fflur Roberts, the global head of luxury goods research at
Euromonitor. “When you go to a department store, before even
looking at a product, you want to be overcome with excitement. A
lot of German department stores are extremely conservative.”  While German department-store  spending  has fallen and is
forecast to do so again this year, expenditure in the U.K. and
France will increase in 2012, Euromonitor forecasts.  The popularity of the Internet with German clothing
shoppers has also contributed to the decline in store sales.
Germans spent 81.2 euros per person buying apparel online last
year, Euromonitor said, at least three times more than in 2006
and almost twice as much as the French spend on clothes online.
That amount may increase to 149.90 euros per person in 2016,
more than in France and the U.K., according to the researcher.  “The department-store format is a bit outdated, especially
with the Internet,” Lamine Lahouasnia, a retail analyst at
Euromonitor, said in a phone interview.  Gruhn said she does a lot of Web shopping because she can
buy all luxury brands online, including those she hasn’t found
in Frankfurt, such as  Alexander McQueen  and Louboutin. She also
does more shopping when she’s traveling outside Germany.  “In  New York , customers get Champagne and can watch
clothes or shoe shows,” Gruhn said. “German department stores
must polish their image.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  