-- Retail Sales Probably Rose on Autos: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-07-15T04:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/retail-sales-probably-increased-on-autos-u-s-economy-preview.html
Sales at U.S. retailers probably
rose in June for the first time in three months, reflecting a
pickup in demand for automobiles that outshined spending on
other goods, economists said before a report this week.  The projected 0.2 percent gain in purchases would follow a
0.2 percent decline in May, according to the  median  forecast of
72 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of the Commerce
Department figures tomorrow. Other data may show the cost of
living was little changed and manufacturing accelerated.  Receipts at merchants other than auto dealers were probably
little changed as a weakening job market sapped households of
the confidence and the incomes needed to boost expenditures.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will address the
outlook for growth when he testifies Congress this week and may
hint at steps that can be taken to revive the expansion.  “The overall consumer picture is lackluster -- still
growing -- but not particularly strongly,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “The momentum in the economy has clearly waned.”  A bright spot, auto purchases have held up as Americans
replace aging vehicles. Cars and light trucks  sold  at a 14.1
million annual rate in June, up from May’s 13.7 million that was
the weakest pace of the year, Ward’s Automotive Group data show.
 General Motors Co. (GM) , Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Group LLC
reported sales that topped analysts’ estimates, helping the
industry surpass projections and stay on pace for the best year
since 2007.  ‘Moderate’ Growth  “We’ve got just some tremendous opportunity in the back
half of the year, so feel good about where we are,” Kurt
McNeil, U.S. vice president of sales at General Motors, said
during a July 3 conference call. “We still see headwinds, but
at the end of the day we’re calling for moderate, gradual
economic growth.”  Vehicle demand is propelling manufacturing. Production at
the nation’s factories, mines and utilities rose 0.3 percent in
June after a 0.1 percent decrease in the previous month,
economists projected a Fed report will show on July 17.  At the same time, scant income gains as the labor market
struggles have failed to boost spending on other goods. Same-
store sales at the more than 20 companies tracked by Retail
Metrics Inc. rose 0.3 percent in June from the same time last
year following a 4 percent gain in May.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index
increased 1.7 percent in June, compared with a 4 percent gain
for the broader  S&P 500 .  Spending Cools  Consumer spending , about 70 percent of the economy, grew at
a 2.5 percent annual rate in the first quarter, according to
Commerce Department data. Economists surveyed this month
forecast it increased at a 1.9 percent rate from April through
June while the economy as a whole expanded at a 1.8 percent
pace.  Cheaper gasoline will free up some cash. The average price
of a gallon of regular fuel at the pump fell to $3.33 on July 1,
the lowest in six months, according to AAA, the nation’s largest
auto club.  The drop in fuel costs is also showing up in measures of
inflation. The consumer-price index was little changed in June
after falling 0.3 percent the prior month, according to the
survey median before a Labor Department report on July 17.
Prices are projected to rise 1.6 percent over the past year,
down from 1.7 percent in May.  Bernanke Testimony  Moderating price gains provide the Fed more cushion should
it chose to adopt new strategies to combat 8.2 percent
unemployment. Fed Chairman Bernanke will testify before the
Senate Banking Committee on July 17, discussing the outlook for
the economy and monetary policy. On July 18, he will speak
before the House Financial Services Committee.  Employers hired 80,000 workers last month, fewer than
forecast and not enough to reduce a jobless rate that’s exceeded
8 percent for more than three years, Labor Department figures
showed earlier this month.  Residential real estate is one area of the world’s largest
economy that shows signs of improvement. Builders began work on
more houses in June than at any time since October 2008,
economists projected a Commerce Department report will show on
July 18.  A day later, figures from the National Association of
Realtors will show sales of existing homes climbed 1.5 percent
to a 4.62 million annual rate, according to the survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  