-- Romney’s Bain Yielded Private Gains, Socialized Losses
-- B y   A n t h o n y   L u z z a t t o   G a r d n e r
-- 2012-07-15T22:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/romney-s-bain-yielded-private-gains-socialized-losses.html
Mitt Romney  touts his business
acumen and job-creation record as a key qualification for being
the next U.S. president.  What’s clear from a review of the public record during his
management of the private-equity firm  Bain Capital  from 1985 to
1999 is that Romney was fabulously successful in generating high
returns for its investors. He did so, in large part, through
heavy use of tax-deductible debt, usually to finance outsized
dividends for the firm’s partners and investors. When some of
the investments went bad, workers and creditors felt most of the
pain. Romney privatized the gains and socialized the losses.  What’s less clear is how his skills are relevant to the job
of overseeing the  U.S. economy , strengthening competitiveness
and looking out for the welfare of the general public,
especially the middle class.  Thanks to leverage, 10 of roughly 67 major deals by  Bain
Capital  during Romney’s watch produced about 70 percent of the
firm’s profits. Four of those 10 deals, as well as others, later
wound up in bankruptcy. It’s worth examining some of them to
understand Romney’s investment style at Bain Capital.  In 1986, in one of its earliest deals, Bain Capital
acquired  Accuride Corp ., a manufacturer of aluminum truck
wheels. The purchase was 97.5 percent financed by debt, a high
level of leverage under any circumstances. It was especially
burdensome for a company that was exposed to aluminum-price
volatility and cyclical automotive production.  Casino Capitalism  Forty-to-one leverage is casino capitalism that hugely
magnifies gains and losses. Bain Capital wisely chose to flip
the company fast: After 18 months, it sold Accuride, converting
its $2.6 million sliver of equity into a $61 million capital
gain. That deal, which yielded a 1,123 percent annualized
return, was critical to Bain Capital’s early success and led the
firm to keep maximizing the use of leverage.  In 1992, Bain Capital bought American Pad & Paper by
financing 87 percent of the purchase price. In the next three
years, Ampad borrowed to make acquisitions, repay existing debt
and pay Bain Capital and its investors $60 million in dividends.  As a result, the company’s debt swelled from $11 million in
1993 to $444 million by 1995. The $14 million in annual interest
expense on this debt dwarfed the company’s $4.7 million
operating cash flow. The proceeds of an initial public offering
in July 1996 were used to pay Bain Capital $48 million for part
of its stake and to reduce the company’s debt to $270 million.  From 1993 to 1999, Bain Capital charged Ampad about $18
million in various fees. By 1999, the company’s debt was back up
to $400 million. Unable to pay the interest costs and drained of
cash paid to Bain Capital in fees and dividends, Ampad filed for
bankruptcy the following year. Senior secured lenders got less
than 50 cents on the dollar, unsecured lenders received two-
tenths of a cent on the dollar, and several hundred jobs were
lost. Bain Capital had reaped  capital gains  of $107 million on
its $5.1 million investment.  Bain Capital’s acquisition in 1994 of Dade International, a
supplier of in-vitro diagnostic products, was 81 percent
financed by debt. Of the $85 million in equity, about $27
million came from Bain with the rest coming from a group of
investors that included Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  From 1995 to 1999, Bain Capital tripled Dade’s debt from
about $300 million to $902 million. Some of the debt was used to
pay for acquisitions of DuPont Co.’s in-vitro diagnostics
division in May 1996 and Behring Diagnostics, a German medical-
testing company, in 1997. But some was used to finance a
repurchase of half of Bain Capital’s equity for $242 million --
more than eight times its investment -- and to pay its investors
almost $100 million in fees.  Bankruptcy Filing  Dade was left in a weakened financial condition and
couldn’t withstand the shocks of increased debt payments when
 interest rates  rose and revenue from  Europe  fell because of a
decline in the value of the euro. The company filed for
bankruptcy in August 2002, because of its inability to service a
$1.5 billion debt load. About 1,700 people lost their jobs while
Bain Capital claimed capital gains (net of its losses in the
bankruptcy) of roughly $216 million, an eightfold return.  There are many other examples of this debt-fueled strategy.
In the two years following the acquisition in 1993 of GS
Industries, a steel mill, for $8 million, Bain Capital increased
the company’s debt to $378 million on operating income of less
than a 10th of that amount. Some of this was used to pay Bain
Capital a $36 million dividend in 1994. That degree of leverage
was excessive in light of the cyclicality and capital-intensive
nature of the  steel industry .  By the time the company went bankrupt in 2001, it owed $554
million in debt against assets valued at $395 million. Many
creditors lost money, and 750 workers lost their jobs. The U.S.
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp., which insures company retirement
plans, determined in 2002 that GS had underfunded its pension by
$44 million and had to step in to cover the shortfall.  Bain Capital’s acquisition of Stage Stores, a department-
store chain, in 1988 was 96 percent financed by debt (mostly in
 junk bonds ) -- an extreme level for a cyclical and very
competitive low-margin business. Bain sold a large part of its
stake in 1997 for a $184 million gain, three years before the
company filed for bankruptcy because of its inability to service
its $600 million debt.  Success, entrepreneurship, risk taking and wealth creation
deserve to be celebrated when they are the result of fair play
and hard work. President  Barack Obama  is correct in
distinguishing the patient creation of value for the benefit of
investors through genuine operational improvements and growth --
the true mission of private equity -- from the form of rigged
capitalism that was practiced by some in the industry in the
past when debt was cheap and plentiful.  While Bain Capital wasn’t alone in using financial
engineering to turbo-charge its returns, it was among the most
aggressive under Romney’s leadership. Enriching investors by
taking leveraged bets isn’t a qualification for a job requiring
long-term vision and concern for public welfare. It is
appropriate to point that out to voters.  (Anthony Luzzatto Gardner works at Palamon Capital
Partners, a private equity fund based in  London , and was
director of European affairs in the U.S. National Security
Council in 1994-95. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  good news from Guantanamo ,
why  Jamie Dimon ’s bonus should be  clawed back  and how to put
more  electric cars  on the road; William D. Cohan on Romney’s
 magical IRA ;  Albert R. Hunt  on the candidates’ need to  spell out 
debt-cutting plans; Stephen Marche explains why  Canadians are
now richer  than Americans.  To contact the writer of this article:
Anthony Luzzatto Gardner at  tonylgardner@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  