-- Crops Rally as Drought Parches Fields; U.S. Stocks Drop
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-07-16T20:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/s-p-500-futures-slip-after-rally-last-week-grains-kiwi-climb.html
Crops led a rally in commodities,
with corn reaching a 10-month high and soybeans reaching the
priciest since 2008, as the worst drought in a generation
parches American farms. U.S stocks fell and Treasuries gained
amid concern the global economic recovery is weakening.  Corn futures for December delivery jumped 4.4 percent to
$7.725 a bushel in Chicago while November soybeans climbed 2.4
percent and soybean-meal futures touched an all-time high. Wheat
jumped 4.3 percent to a 17-month high. Oil surged 1.5 percent to
$88.43 a barrel and shares of  energy producers  rose, helping
limit the drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to 0.2
percent. Government debt yields slid to records from the U.S.
and  Canada  to  Germany ,  France  and the U.K. amid demand for
assets considered most safe.  Crops surged amid forecasts that most of the U.S. Midwest
will be unusually dry and hot in the next 10 days, threatening
to drive food prices to record highs. T-Storm Weather LLC in
Chicago said July is on pace to rank as the third driest and
warmest in 118 years of data. Gains in Treasuries and losses in
stocks followed a reduction in the  International Monetary Fund ’s
forecast for global growth in 2013 and an unexpected decrease in
U.S. retail sales.  “The crops are shrinking daily, and the market is pricing
in the risk for less available supply for export and domestic
usage,”  Jim Gerlach , the president of A/C Trading Inc. in
Fowler,  Indiana , said in a telephone interview. “The path of
least resistance is for higher prices until the crops get enough
rain to stabilize yields.”  Food Prices  The S&P GSCI Index climbed 1.6 percent as 15 of 24
commodities increased. Rallies in corn, wheat, soybeans and
soybean meal, used in  animal feed , may mean higher food prices
after the Food & Agriculture Organization’s world food index
dropped for three consecutive months through June. Corn is up 23
percent this year and soybeans climbed 32 percent. Soybean meal
prices have jumped 48 percent this year and today rose to
$463.80 for 2,000 pounds.  After U.S. financial markets closed, the Department of
Agriculture reported that the condition of the corn crop
worsened for a sixth straight week, the longest such streak
since 2003. About 31 percent of the corn was in good or
excellent condition as of yesterday, down from 40 percent a week
earlier, the USDA said in a report. An estimated 34 percent of
the soybeans got the top ratings, down from 40 percent. The
ratings are the worst for both crops for this time of year since
a drought in 1988.  Yield Watch  U.S. Treasury five-year note yields slid as low as 0.577
percent, rates on Canada’s 10-year debt reached 1.5952 percent
and German two-year yields sank to minus 0.06 percent.  The rate on Germany’s two-year note was the least since
Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1990. Rates on similar-
maturity French and Dutch bonds reached as low as 0.07 percent
and minus 0.0279 percent, respectively, also records. France’s
five-year debt yield dropped 10 basis points to a record 0.828
percent. Five-year U.K. yields reached an all-time low of 0.53
percent.  “Investors are not really concerned about returns, they
just want to know they will get their money back,” said
Gianluca Ziglio, an interest-rate strategist at UBS AG in
 London . “The market is still concerned about the euro-region
situation. There is  risk aversion  and ongoing fear about the
crisis escalating, which means investors will continue to focus
on bonds from the core countries.”  European Developments  Germany’s top court said it won’t rule on whether to
suspend the euro-area’s bailout fund and fiscal pact until Sept.
12, more than two months after it held a hearing on the
measures. The  European Central Bank  advocated imposing losses on
senior bondholders of the most damaged Spanish banks, the Wall
Street Journal said, citing people familiar with the
discussions. Reports today showed inflation in the euro region
held at the lowest since February 2011 last month and imports
fell in May.  After the close of markets in  New York , Moody’s Investors
Service cut the long-term debt and deposit ratings for 10
Italian banks and issuer ratings for three Italian financial
institutions. The cuts follow a downgrade of Italy to Baa2 last
week.  Growth Forecasts  The International Monetary Fund lowered its 2013 forecast
for global economic growth to 3.9 percent from 4.1 percent as
Europe’s debt crisis prolongs Spain’s recession and slows
expansions in  emerging markets  from  China  to  India . An
unexpected third straight monthly drop in U.S. retail sales
showed that limited employment gains are taking a toll on the
biggest part of the economy.  The  S&P 500  fell for the seventh time in eight days,
retreating after a 1.7 percent rally on July 13. Industrial  and
consumer-discretionary shares retreated 0.6 percent to lead
declines in seven of the 10 main industry groups. Energy shares
advanced 0.3 percent. as crude oil reversed an earlier drop.  General Electric Co. fell 0.9 percent after Morgan Stanley
reduced its recommendation on the stock, citing valuations. Arch
Coal Inc. and Alpha Natural Resources Inc. declined 3.9 percent
and 10 percent, respectively, as Bank of Montreal cut its
ratings, citing potential financing issues. Visa Inc. and
MasterCard Inc. climbed at least 1.7 percent after agreeing to a
settlement of at least $6.05 billion in a price-fixing case
brought by  retailers (S5RETL)  over credit-card swipe fees.  Retailers in the S&P 500 lost 0.8 percent. Retail sales in
the U.S. fell 0.5 percent in June, compared with the median
projection of a 0.2 percent increase in a Bloomberg survey,
Commerce Department figures showed. The decrease overshadowed
stronger-than-forecast growth in a gauge of New York
manufacturing. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general
economic index rose to 7.4 from 2.3 in June. The median forecast
of economists called for an increase to 4.0.  Economy, Earnings  The S&P 500 is down almost 5 percent from a four-year high
in April as economic data trails forecasts and investors brace
for what is projected to be the first decrease in quarterly
earnings since 2009. The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for
the U.S., which measures how much data from the past three
months is beating or missing the median estimates in Bloomberg
surveys, was at minus 64 today, near the almost 11-month low of
minus 64.9 reached last week.  The dollar weakened against 13 of 16 major peers, losing
the most against the South African rand,  Mexican peso  and
Japanese yen. The euro strengthened versus eight of 16 major
peers, reversing earlier declines against the dollar to rise 0.2
percent to $1.2275.  European Stocks  More than three shares gained for every two that fell in
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, sending the gauge up 0.2 percent.
SEB AB, the Swedish bank that’s the second-largest lender in the
Baltic countries, jumped 8.2 percent after earnings topped
estimates. G4S Plc tumbled 8.7 percent as the world’s biggest
security company said it may incur a 50 million-pound ($78
million) loss after failing to provide enough guards for the
 Olympic Games .  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.2 percent as
benchmark gauges in Mexico and Hungary rose more than 1 percent.
The Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.7 percent to the lowest
level since March 2009 as concern about slumping profits
overshadowed speculation the government will introduce stimulus
measures for the economy. The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP) 
advanced 1.6 percent, the most in a month, after the central
bank signaled it may ease monetary policy further this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  