-- Santos Says Colombia Could Buy $13 Billion to Curb Peso Rally
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-07-15T03:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/santos-says-colombia-could-buy-13-billion-to-curb-peso-rally.html
Colombia’s central bank could step
up dollar purchases to curb the world’s biggest currency rally
and give the Andean nation a “much higher” level of foreign
reserves, President  Juan Manuel Santos  said.  “The size of our foreign trade has increased, and
according to many studies we can have a much higher level of
reserves, about $13 billion higher,” Santos said in an
interview today aboard his presidential airplane. “I would
recommend to the central bank that they increase the amount they
purchase on a daily basis, and I imagine they are studying that
to see if they should follow that path.”  The peso has appreciated 9.2 percent since the start of
January, the biggest gain of 170 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, even after the central bank announced a $20 million
daily purchase program to try to halt its rise. Santos said
decisions about dollar purchases will be taken by the central
bank, and that he “respects very much” the institution’s
independence.  Colombia had $34.3 billion in international reserves in
June, according to the central bank.  Increased public works spending will help sustain growth in
the second half of the year and offset a slowdown caused by
weaker global demand, Santos said.  The government has no urgent need to sell a stake in state-
controlled oil company  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) , Santos said.  “We’re not in a hurry with that,” Santos said. “It
depends on the world markets, it depends on the financing, but
today we don’t really need it.”  Increased attacks on  oil companies  by guerrillas from the
Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, are a sign of
“weakness and desperation,” according to Santos.  “Their sources of financing through drug trafficking have
been diminished and so they’re desperate and trying to go back
to extortion to see if they can raise some money,” Santos said.  The guerrilla assaults are having a “marginal” impact on
the sector, Santos said. An attack today on a railway that
carries coal for units of  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and
 BHP Billiton Ltd (BHP) ,  Caracol Radio  had no effect on exports, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  