-- Saudi Arabia Ghazal Defies Camels as SUV for Desert User
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-07-15T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/saudi-arabia-ghazal-defies-camels-as-suv-for-desert-market-cars.html
Saudi Arabia is venturing into a
territory normally reserved for automakers. The kingdom is
developing the Ghazal, a sport-utility vehicle for the hazards
of the desert, to diversify its economy beyond oil.  The SUV, built by King Saud University in  Riyadh , is an
all-wheel drive vehicle with a rugged carbon-fiber frame aimed
at taking on the likes of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Highlander. The
project, which has attracted interest from Saudi investors,
reflects the prospects for the  Middle East ’s largest car market,
which is forecast to climb 29 percent by 2015.  “The target is to produce cars and develop a car
manufacturing industry in Saudi,” said Adel Al Shayea, head of
the university’s industrial engineering department. “The body
is built to be very resilient toward accidents, especially
against camel accidents, which are quite common in the desert.”  Greater wealth distribution following the Arab Spring
uprisings has put cars within reach of more people in Saudi
Arabia. In addition, the population, which quadrupled to 28
million people over the past 40 years, continues to grow more
than 3 percent annually, creating a steady supply of new buyers.  Demand is forecast to grow 8 percent this year, according
to IHS Automotive, a stark contrast to the fifth straight annual
decline projected for  Europe . Sales are likely to increase to
884,000 vehicles by 2015 from 688,000 last year, according to a
June report from  Saudi Arabia ’s  National Commercial Bank . By
comparison, 808,059 vehicles were sold last year in  Spain ,
Europe’s fifth-largest auto market.  Spending Spree  Easier access to financing and a post-Arab Spring
 government spending  spree of 224 billion riyals ($60 billion)
has provided an additional boost for consumers like Abdullah
Saeed, who works at  investment company  in the capital of Riyadh
and plans to give his wife a car from  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Chrysler unit.  “After the Arab spring, government spending increased,
companies are trying to spend more on their employees, so
average salaries grew,” Saeed said. “People are getting loans
for buying cars, for travel, for anything.”  Consumer loans for cars and equipment increased 13 percent
in the first quarter to 51.7 billion riyals,  according  to the
 Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency .  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and Toyota, the
market leader with a 40 percent share, are counting on the flow
of oil money to boost sales in the Islamic state, which still
bans women from driving.  Saudi Arabia “is a great spot for the automobile industry
as a whole,” said John Stadwick, head of GM’s Middle East
operations. “ Consumer confidence  is strong, and the investments
across the kingdom are helping the economy.”  Expanding Network  The Detroit-based  automaker  plans to expand its network of
sales outlets in the country by 29 percent to 142 showrooms by
2014, said Stadwick. GM, which sells Chevrolet, GMC and Cadillac
models in the country, increased deliveries 26 percent through
May and expects the sales pace to continue after introducing
models including the Chevrolet Colorado and TrailBlazer and the
Cadillac ATS and XTS.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s ultra-luxury Rolls-Royce
brand is also seeing more demand for its Phantom and Ghost
models. Sales surged 68 percent in the first five months, said
Alaa Tarabay, a spokesman for the brand in the region.  “Our customers in Saudi are becoming more and more
discerning,” said Tarabay, who said the brand may add dealers
in oil-rich Khobar and Dammam in addition to showrooms in Jeddah
and Riyadh. “They are very demanding and want to further
personalize ultra-luxury.”  Royal Perks  The  automaker  recently customized a Phantom for a royal
family member, incorporating gold and precious stones in the
air-conditioning vents, the steering wheel and the Spirit of
Ecstasy hood ornament, he said.  Growing demand, low fuel costs and the availability of
investment funds make the development of a Saudi  auto industry  a
real possibility, even as the rest of the world grapples with
the shift to electric-powered vehicles.  “Car assembly would be a very logical area for the kingdom
to diversify in,” said  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief economist at the
National Commercial Bank in Jeddah. “People like cars and you
have long distances and reasonable infrastructure.”  The establishment of a domestic automaker also has
precedence in the region. Iran Khodro Co. has developed car
manufacturing while suffering from sanctions for about three
decades. The biggest Iranian automaker builds its own models and
assembles vehicles for other brands, including the Suzuki Grand
Vitara compact SUV and Peugeot 206 hatchback.  Ghazal Production  The goal is to manufacture the Ghazal and another model as
part of an industry making about 500,000 cars a year, according
to Azzam Shalabi, who is heading the government’s development of
the automotive industry. The plans include industrial areas that
will allow manufacturers to share production and logistics
operations. The government is prepared to fund as much as 75
percent of the costs through long-term loans, he said in an
interview last October.  King Saud University, holding company Al Muwakaba for
Industrial Development & Overseas Commerce and Digm Automotive
Technology Inc. in  South Korea  created an alliance at the end of
last year to fund the $500 million project to produce Saudi
Arabia’s first auto. Concrete production plans haven’t yet been
made public. The five-passenger car will cost between 35,000
Saudi riyals and 45,000 Saudi riyals, according to the
university’s estimates when it first announced the project.  “It’s feasible, but it’s a bit ambitious,” said Pierluigi Bellini, an analyst at IHS Automotive in Milan, who covers the
Middle East. “If you want to make a nice car and do it well you
need to assemble it the right way and it’s not going to be
cheap. Then they need to find enough people to buy the car at
that price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  