-- Seven West to Raise A$440 Million as Advertising Slumps
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-07-16T07:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/seven-west-media-to-raise-a-440-million-as-advertising-slumps.html
Seven West Media Ltd. (SWM) ,  Australia ’s
most-watched television network, will raise A$440 million ($450
million) by selling new stock as advertising revenues languish.  Investors in Seven West can buy one new share at A$1.32
each for every two they already own, the Perth, Western
Australia-based company said today in a regulatory statement.
That’s 19 percent less than the A$1.62 closing price on July 13.  Seven West, controlled by billionaire  Kerry Stokes , is
raising cash as advertising revenues slump amid weak  consumer
spending . Bookings for commercials on free-to-air television in
Australia’s cities fell 4.1 percent from a year earlier in the
11 months to the end of May, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst Jarrod McDonald said in a June 15 note to clients quoting data from
research firm Standard Media Index.  “The key risk for Seven West remains the relatively high
level of debt financing, given the current economic outlook,”
Justin Diddams, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney, wrote in
a June 26 note to clients. Seven West is Australia’s largest
free-to-air television channel, with about 40 percent of the
market, and publishes Perth’s sole daily newspaper.  Seven West’s shares have fallen 74 percent since its
predecessor West Australian Newspapers Holdings Ltd. announced
plans to buy the television station out of Stokes’s  Seven Group (SVW) 
Holdings Ltd. last February. The company was renamed Seven West
Media after the transaction.  KKR, Stokes  The company’s largest shareholders, Seven Group and  KKR &
Co. (KKR) , will buy shares matching their existing stakes of 33
percent and 12 percent, the company said.  Seven Group shares fell to a seven-month low, slipping 1.2
percent to A$6.70 at the close of trade in Sydney. The benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 index rose 0.6 percent. The company will have to
spend about A$146 million buying new Seven West stock based on
its shareholding.  Seven Group’s own debt levels “weigh on the stock given
current  market sentiment ”, Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. analyst
Matthew Nicholas wrote in a note to clients July 2.  The funds will allow Seven West to cut its net debt from
A$1.9 billion to A$1.4 billion, the company said. That compares
with earnings before interest and tax of A$473 million the
company said it earned in the year ended June 30.  The company “is trading well within the covenant levels of
its senior facilities” and after the share sale net debt will
be about 2.7 times earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization, Seven West said.  “There’s a lot of concern in the market about any
companies that don’t have strong balance sheets,” Geoff Driver,
general manager of  investor relations  at Australian Foundation
Investment Co., said in a phone interview July 10. The
Melbourne-based  fund manager  is Seven West’s third-largest
shareholder with a 1.7 percent stake, according to  data compiled
by Bloomberg .  Echo, Ten  Australian companies raised A$4.5 billion in additional
shares in June, according to Australian Securities Exchange
 data . Ten Network Holdings Ltd., the nation’s third-most watched
TV broadcaster, announced a A$200 million share sale June 6,
while Echo Entertainment Group Ltd., operator of Sydney’s only
casino, announced a A$454 million raising June 15. Pallet
supplier Brambles Ltd. announced a A$448 million rights issue
June 4.  “The capital raising is not a reflection of a change in
trend” in advertising markets, Seven West Chief Financial
Officer Peter Lewis told a conference call after the
announcement today. “It’s very much about solidifying the
balance sheet.”  Goldman Sachs  Excluding the shares bought by Seven Group and KKR, the
offer has been underwritten by units of  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia , Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., and
UBS AG, according to a separate filing. The banks will together
collect fees worth up to about 2 percent of the shares sold to
other investors, worth about A$4.8 million.  Underwriters promise to buy shares that go unsold in an
issue of new stock.  The raising comes less than three weeks after Seven West
named  Don Voelte , a former head of Woodside Petroleum Ltd., as
chief executive officer to succeed David Leckie.  Seven Group is also considering whether to buy more shares
in Consolidated Media Holdings Ltd. or accept an offer for its
24 percent stake from  News Corp .  Seven West shares, suspended today, are due to resume
trading July 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  