-- South Korea’s Imports of Iranian Crude Drop Amid Sanctions
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-07-15T08:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/south-korean-imports-of-iran-s-crude-drop-in-june-from-year-ago.html
South Korea ’s crude imports from
 Iran  fell 24 percent in June from a year earlier amid Western
pressure to cut shipments from the Persian Gulf nation.  The world’s fifth-largest oil importer purchased 736,552
metric tons of oil, or about 24,551 tons a day, from Iran last
month, compared with 971,908 tons, or about 32,397 tons a day, a
year earlier, according to data on the  website  of South Korea’s
Customs Service. Iran accounted for 6.9 percent of the total
crude imports in June, the data showed. Purchases slid 21
percent to 4.8 million tons in the first six months of this year
compared with the same period in 2011.  South Korea won a renewable, 180-day exemption from U.S.
financial sanctions on its banks after it demonstrated it had
“significantly reduced” its purchases of Iranian oil, U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in an e-mailed statement
on June 28. The East Asian country failed to get an exemption
from European Union rules that entered into full force on July 1.
The sanctions are targeted at curbing  Iran’s nuclear program .  The EU embargo includes a ban on the insurance of tankers
carrying Iranian crude. The restrictions apply to 95 percent of
the world’s tankers because they’re covered by the 13 members of
the London-based  International Group  of P&I Clubs.  Iran has offered to use its own tankers to supply oil, a
South Korean government official said June 29, asking not to be
identified because the matter is confidential. The government is
still discussing how to deal with the EU sanctions and Iran’s
proposal, the official said.  The U.S. and its allies maintain that Iran’s nuclear
activities are a cover for making weapons. The government in
Tehran says the program is for civilian uses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Gordon  at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net  