-- Springsteen, McCartney Silenced by Curfew, Simon Dazzles
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h   a n d   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2012-07-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/springsteen-mccartney-silenced-by-curfew-stirring-fans-anger.html
Bruce Springsteen  duetted with  Paul McCartney  until their microphones were switched off because of a
noise curfew. Iggy Pop went shirtless in the cold rain and Paul Simonreunited his “Graceland” band.  London ’s three-day Hard Rock Calling festival had memorable
moments for fans prepared to endure the persistent downpours that
soaked Hyde Park.  Springsteen, known for his long sets, rewarded them by
playing for more than three hours on Saturday. He was some 30
minutes over the closing time imposed by local council officials
when he was joined by McCartney.  They sang Beatles hits “I Saw Her Standing There” and
“Twist and Shout” before they were silenced. The band stood on
stage for some minutes, bemused, bowing, speaking their thanks
into switched-off microphones, as some in the crowd jeered.  “We break curfews in every country,” Springsteen’s
guitarist Steve Van Zandt said in a Twitter post. “When did
 England  become a police state?” He later said “Hard Rock would
have let us play all night. Live Nation is cool. It’s some
stupid City Council rule.”  Westminster City Council said that it introduced stricter
time restrictions after complaints about noise from residents
who live near the park. An earlier finish time also allowed
crowds to catch trains home before the subway closes for the
night.  Twitter Anger  McCartney is known to drop in on Hard Rock occasionally --
in 2009 he joined  Neil Young . Still, hundreds of fans’ messages
on Twitter said that a moment of rock history was ruined by the
two being silenced.  It took Simon a while to get to the “Graceland” songs in 
his impressive three-hour set, closing the festival last night.  First, he treated the audience to hits like “Fifty Ways to 
Leave Your Lover,” some skippy zydeco and a bit of skiffle 
complete with a washboard solo.   When “Graceland” came, it was bordering on the miraculous. 
Ladysmith Black Mambazo, the Soweto  choir  that featured on the 
original album, filled Hyde Park with swelling Mbube harmonies, 
eventually leading to “Homeless.”  Simon then introduced the original “Graceland” band on to 
the stage. Guitars sparkled, rhythms flowed. “Crazy Love Vol. 
II” might have lost a few of its more 1980s drums. Most of the 
songs were unchanged, as sparkling and entrancing as they were 
25 years ago. “You Can Call Me Al” had the whole crowd singing.  Guests included Jimmy Cliff and trumpet player Hugh 
Masekela.  Silent Sound  For an encore, Simon, with just an acoustic guitar, played 
“The Sound of Silence.” The audience was rapt and hushed, with 
a gentle murmur of those quietly singing along.  Iggy Pop was stripped to the waist for his Stooges show
Friday as the crowd shivered, and he was followed by
Soundgarden. “Black Hole Sun” seemed out of place as the gray
sky unleashed a storm.  The U.K. has seen the most rain in the months from March
since 1766, when records began. The Hyde Park site was turning
into a swamp in places for the Wireless festival this month. The
Hit Factory Live was canceled last week so the site could be
covered in wood chippings for Hard Rock.  The soggy field had more of a feel of Glastonbury (which
has a year off in 2012.) Premature obituaries are being written
for rock festivals in the U.K. after what has been a lackluster
season -- the Big Chill and Sonisphere canceled -- though on the
basis of Simon’s show last night, the festival is far from
finished yet.  Ratings: **** for Simon and Springsteen, ** for the Stooges
and Soundgarden.  (Mark Beech and  Robert Heller  write for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
their own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Elin McCoy 
on wine and  Amanda Gordon  on  New York  scene.  To contact the writers on the story:
Mark Beech in London at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech ;
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 