-- Syria’s Bloodiest Massacre Raises Calls for Action Against Assad
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-07-15T21:35:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/syria-s-bloodiest-massacre-raises-calls-for-action-against-assad.html
The bloodiest massacre in Syria’s
17-month conflict along with the suspected movement of chemical
weapons adds pressure on the United Nations  Security Council  to
punish a regime that  Russia  has so far shielded.  The opposition Syrian National Council said as many as 305
people were killed in a July 12 assault on the Sunni Muslim
village of Tremseh in Hama province. Separately, the Wall Street
Journal cited unidentified U.S. officials as saying they are
concerned about evidence that the Syrian government was moving
some chemical weapons from storage sites for unknown reasons.  Both elements add urgency to a planned July 18 vote in  New
York  on a Western-drafted Security Council resolution
threatening President Bashar al-Assad with measures such as
sanctions. Russia has said it will continue to use its veto to
protect its Soviet-era ally, drawing attention to how
ineffectual the international community has been in trying to
resolve the longest of the Arab revolts.  “We have two significant developments and we cannot even
get this passed?”  Andrew Tabler , a fellow at the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy, said in a telephone interview.
“There is no point in a resolution with no teeth, and even this
doesn’t have much bite to it. How else can Assad be stopped?”  Government forces yesterday stormed neighborhoods in Deraa
and used helicopters and heavy artillery in Deir al-Zour in the
east of the country, the Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights 
said in an e-mailed statement. Heavy fighting involving mortars
and artillery also erupted in central Damascus late yesterday,
it said.  War Crimes  The International Red Cross yesterday declared the Syrian
conflict a civil war, a status that could facilitate
prosecutions for  war crimes , the  Associated Press  reported.  Time is running out for UN special envoy  Kofi Annan ’s peace
efforts, which in five months have failed to secure a promised
cease-fire. His transition plan, which envisions Assad’s
mediated exit within a year, hinges on Russia withholding its
veto.  “Tragically, we now have another grim reminder that the
Council’s resolutions continue to be flouted,” Annan said in a
letter addressed to UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and
transmitted to the 15-member body. Action “is imperative and
could not be more urgent in light of unfolding events.”  The assault on Tremseh began at dawn when Syrian troops
surrounded the town of 10,000 residents, most of them  Sunni
Muslims , with 150 tanks and armored vehicles and started
shelling, according to Syrian National Council member
Abdulrahman Alhaj. Then soldiers, backed by the pro-government
Shabiha militia, stormed the town for five hours, he said.  Residents’ Plea  That version is challenged by the state-run Syrian Arab
News Agency, which said the deaths were the result of a clash
between security forces and “terrorist” groups -- as the
government characterizes anti-regime fighters -- after local
residents called for help.  There was no independent account, and the Associated Press
reported local activists were reducing their death estimates.  UN observers made a second visit to Tremseh yesterday to
investigate the July 12 military operations there, according to
an e-mailed statement from the UN Supervision Mission in Syria.
The observers’ operations have been largely suspended because of
the danger posed to them.  Pools of blood and brain matter were found in some of the
more than 50 houses that were burned or destroyed, according to
the statement.  Village Shelled  The team of observers still hasn’t been able to determine
the number of casualties. Interviews with 27 local residents
revealed that the attack started with a shelling of the village
followed by ground operations.  The three-month mandate for the UN’s Syrian mission expires
July 20. Russia seeks a 90-day extension with no strings
attached. The U.S.,  France  and the U.K. will agree to a rollover
of 45 days only if measures with bite are taken against Assad.  The failure of the mission to help reduce violence in Syria
has made the presence of peacekeepers unpopular. The Syrian
National Council, a political umbrella for anti-government
activists, said July 14 that it “ceases its cooperation with
the Annan mission and calls on the  Arab League  and the United
Nations to end the mission.”  Annan is scheduled to meet with Russian President  Vladimir Putin  and Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  in Moscow ahead
of the July 18 vote, Russian news agencies reported.  Diplomatic Options  If Russia can’t be convinced to abstain, Annan will
probably have to resign, leaving the international community
virtually out of diplomatic options, according to  Richard Gowan ,
associate director for crisis diplomacy and peace operations at
the New York University Center on International Cooperation.  Russia resists Western insistence on invoking Chapter 7 of
the UN Charter, a tool it accused the West of abusing last year
to overthrow  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi. While Russia and  China 
have twice blocked efforts by the U.S. and its European allies
to punish Assad, the stakes in wielding a veto are now higher.  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said reports of the
latest massacre in Syria are “shocking and appalling” and
urged the Security Council to agree on “urgent action.” Hague
made the comments in a July 13 e-mailed statement.  “History will judge this Council,” U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  said in a July 13 e-mailed statement.
“Its members must ask themselves whether continuing to allow
the Assad regime to commit unspeakable violence against its own
people is the legacy they want to leave.”  Chemical Weapons  The violence in Syria since the March 2011 start of the
uprising against Assad has claimed more than 15,000 lives,
according to aid agencies’ figures cited as credible by the UN.  New concerns about Syria’s stockpile of sarin nerve agent,
mustard gas and cyanide also adds a further dimension to
conflict. The Wall Street Journal story on July 12 said it
wasn’t clear if the chemicals were being moved with the intent
to use them, as a feint or to better secure the weapons.  Syria’s cache of advanced weapons make “Libya look like an
antique gun show,” said Representative Mike Rogers, a
Republican from  Michigan  who is chairman of the House Permanent
Select Committee on Intelligence. “I am very concerned that as
the situation in Syria deteriorates, these weapons could fall
into the wrong hands,” such as al-Qaeda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  