-- Syrian Forces Battle Rebels as Arab League Seeks UN Action
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-07-15T18:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/syrian-forces-battle-rebels-as-arab-league-calls-for-un-action.html
Fighting raged across  Syria  between
forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad and rebels trying to
overthrow the government as the  Arab League  called for more
action to end the 17 months of conflict.  Government forces stormed neighborhoods in Deraa and used
helicopters and heavy artillery in Deir al-Zour in the east of
the country, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in an
e-mailed statement. Heavy fighting involving mortars and
artillery also erupted in central Damascus late today, it said.
Al Jazeera television said Syrian forces sealed off road to the
airport in the capital.  The international community has failed to put an end to the
conflict, which the opposition says has left more than 17,000
Syrians dead. The  United Nations  should use Chapter 7 of the UN
Charter to restore peace in Syria, Arab League Secretary-General
Nabil el-Arabi said in  Addis Ababa .  “It has become unacceptable not to take the necessary
steps to end the bloodshed in Syria,” el-Arabi said today
during a two-day African Union summit in the Ethiopian capital.  Forces also used artillery in Hama, the Local Coordination
Committees, an opposition group, said on its website today.
Syrian forces killed 46 people across the country, Al Arabiya
television reported, citing activists.  Council Vote  The UN Security Council will vote July 18 in  New York  on a
Western-drafted resolution threatening Assad with measures such
as sanctions. The three-month mandate for the UN’s Syrian
mission expires on July 20. Syrian Foreign Ministry spokesman
Jihad Makdissi said today in Damascus that a plan by UN special
envoy  Kofi Annan  to end the violence was in the country’s
interest.  Syria’s military is “cleansing” cities in the country and
the army operation in Tremseh was “genocide,” el-Arabi said.  The Syria government offered a different version of events
in Tremseh. The military started the operation because the place
was being used as a terrorist command center, Makdissi said. The
air force and tanks weren’t used and the operation killed two
civilians, he said.  A UN peacekeeping team arrived in Tremseh on July 13 after
learning there was a cease-fire. UN observers reported that the
attack appeared to target specific groups, mainly army defectors
and activists. The UN Supervision Mission in Syria said the
observers found pools and splatters of blood in several homes,
as well as a burned school and damaged houses. It couldn’t
determine the number of casualties and plans to return to the
village today.  The opposition Syrian National Council said as many as 305
people were killed in the assault on the Sunni Muslim village,
some as they tried to flee the town. The Syrian Observatory for
 Human Rights  estimates more than 150 people died when government
forces stormed the village.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  