-- U.A.E. Banks to Hold 10% Liabilities in Liquid Assets
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-07-15T10:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/u-a-e-banks-to-hold-10-liabilities-in-liquid-assets.html
Banks in the  United Arab Emirates 
will be required to comply with four so-called “liquidity
ratios” to help them withstand market disruptions and avoid a
cluster of debt payments, according to new central bank rules.  Lenders will be required to hold 10 percent of their
liabilities in “high-quality liquid assets” from Jan. 1 to
meet a new liquid assets ratio, according to the  liquidity
regulations  issued by the central bank July 12 and posted on its
website today. The assets include cash, central bank
certificates of deposits, U.A.E. federal government bonds,
reserves and other account balances at the central bank, the
regulator said. They could also include debt of local
governments and public entities. The ratio will be replaced by a
new liquidity coverage ratio from Jan. 1, 2015, it said.  “A minimum level of liquid assets should be held at  banks (ADBF) 
to ensure its ability to sustain a short-term liquidity stress,
both bank specific and market-wide,” the central bank said. It
will set up a liquidity task force to ensure a smooth
implementation of these rules by the required dates, it said.  The U.A.E. government in 2008 pledged $33 billion to
support the country’s banks on worries frozen credit markets
would squeeze liquidity after the global credit crisis. To help
reduce risks facing lenders, the central bank also announced new
guidelines governing retail lending last year and exposure to
governments and state-related companies in April this year.  Banking Market  The U.A.E. has the biggest banking market in the six-nation
Gulf Cooperation Council, which includes  Saudi Arabia ,  Kuwait 
and Qatar. Twenty-three local banks and 28 foreign lenders
operate in the country, including local units of  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  and  Standard Chartered Plc. (STAN)   Two of the four ratios that banks need to comply with are
interim measures until the Basel III liquidity coverage ratio
and the net stable funding ratio come into effect, it said.  The liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR, which will be
implemented from 2015, is taken from Basel III requirements and
“represents a 30-day stress scenario with combined assumptions
covering both bank specific and market-wise stresses that the
bank should be able to survive using a stock of high-quality
liquid assets,” the statement said. “The LCR requires that
banks should always be able to cover the net cash outflow with
eligible liquid assets at the minimum LCR determined by the
central bank.”  Lessons Learnt  These measures are a result of lessons learnt during the
credit crisis when banks relied on short-term funds to finance
longer-term activities,  Jaap Meijer , the Dubai-based director of
equity research at Arqaam Capital Ltd., said in an e-mail today.  “U.A.E. banks have the lowest liquidity coverage ratios in
the GCC due to their high undrawn loan commitments, higher
interbank borrowings and relatively small holdings of liquid
investments,” Meijer said.  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the U.A.E.’s
biggest bank by assets, began addressing its liquidity shortage
with a $1 billion bond and inflow of deposits in the first
quarter, Meijer said. The LCR ratio at  National Bank of Abu
Dhabi PJSC  improved helped by a 33 percent increase in
government deposits this year, he said.  Banks must also comply with a “uses to stable resource
ratio” from June 1, an amended version of the advances to
stable resources ratio that has been in effect since July 1986,
according to the central bank. This prepares them for the
implementation of the net stable funding ratio under Basel III,
it said.  Basle III  Banks will have to comply with a net stable funding
ratio from Jan. 1, 2018, which ensures that long-term assets of
the banks’ balance sheets are funded using a sufficient amount
of stable liabilities, according to the statement.  Most banks should be able to meet the liquidity coverage
ratio, but complying with the net stable funding ratio is
slightly more challenging due to the high reliance on corporate
and government deposits within U.A.E., Meijer said. Most U.A.E.
banks will be able to meet the 10 percent liquid assets ratio,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  