-- U.K. GDP Forecast Cut as Crisis Wreaks Damage, Item Club Says
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2012-07-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/u-k-gdp-forecast-cut-as-crisis-wreaks-damage-item-club-says.html
The U.K. economy won’t grow this
year as damage from the euro-area debt crisis overshadows a
pickup in  consumer spending  in the second half, the Ernst &
Young Item Club said.  The London-based group, which uses an economic model
similar to that of the U.K. Treasury, cut its 2012 gross-
domestic-product forecast to show no expansion instead of a 0.4
percent increase predicted in April. Growth will pick up in the
second half after quarterly contractions that extended into the
three months through June, it said in a report today.  That last assessment chimes with a  0.2 percent GDP  drop
estimated by the National Institute of Economic and Social
Research. The  Bank of England  and U.K. Treasury unveiled details
of their Funding for Lending Scheme on July 13, the latest
attempt by officials to kick start growth and protect the
economy from the euro turmoil by encouraging banks to offer more
loans.  “The euro-zone crisis remains a major risk to the
forecast,” said  Peter Spencer , economic adviser to the Item
Club. Slowing inflation means “the boost to household finances
and the subsequent pickup in spending should be enough to push
the U.K. back into positive territory this year, but don’t
expect a consumer-led recovery further out.”  Spencer said that the squeeze in wages caused by inflation
in the past four years is “almost over.”  Consumer prices 
probably rose an annual 2.8 percent in June, matching the
slowest pace since November 2009, according to the median
forecast of 30 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. That data
will be released tomorrow.  Growth Forecasts  Spencer forecast growth of 1.6 percent in 2013 and 2.6
percent in 2014. He said that U.K. business confidence may
improve after a crisis summit of European leaders last month,
when they pledged to enact new budget rules.  “It is just possible that the EU summit in June, together
with the tough new fiscal rules agreed in December, have laid
the foundations for a gradual revival of business confidence --
providing the proposals go ahead as planned,” he said.  House prices  will fall 2 percent this year, leaving them 8
percent below the 2008 peak in nominal terms, and down 24
percent in real terms, the Item Club said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  