-- U.K. Labour Party Seeks Lower Charges for Private Pension Plans
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2012-07-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/u-k-labour-party-seeks-lower-charges-for-private-pension-plans.html
Britain’s opposition  Labour Party 
called for lower fees on private pension plans, saying consumers
are losing money through concealed charges and penalties for
changing providers.  “Right now, a worst-case scenario could see a pensions
saver lose up to half of their pension thanks to hidden costs
and charges,” Labour’s spokesman on pensions,  Liam Byrne , said
in an e-mailed statement. “We’re determined to make sure savers
are served by every pensions company playing to the standards of
the best.”  The opposition party published a policy document today
calling on Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government to take
urgent action over fees. New legislation takes effect in October
under which workers will automatically be enrolled in company
pension plans unless they opt out.  Speaking last week, Labour leader  Ed Miliband  said pension
fees would be the next scandal in British public life, following
uproar over journalism and banking.  A pension fund charging 2 percent a year will reduce the
value of the fund by 49 percent over a 20-year period due to
compound interest, according to SCM Private, a fund-management
firm campaigning against high fees.  The director general of the  Association of British
Insurers , Otto Thoresen, criticized Labour’s comments as
misleading, saying that fees “have been falling steadily for
the last decade” and the average annual management charge is
now 0.77 percent.  “Much of this so-called policy document has a ‘back of an
envelope’ feel about it,” Thoresen said in an e-mailed
statement. “The extra costs Labour highlights are transaction
costs that include stamp duty and relate only to particular
types of actively managed funds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  