-- Voters Must See Candidate Plans for Avoiding Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-07-15T15:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/voters-must-see-candidate-plans-for-avoiding-fiscal-cliff.html
“You wouldn’t hire a CEO to run a
troubled company if they won’t tell you how they’re going to fix
the major problem,” says Maya MacGuineas, president of the
Committee for a Responsible  Federal Budget .  Yet that’s exactly what’s occurring with the most important
chief executive job in the world: U.S. president.  Either  Barack Obama  or his Republican challenger,  Mitt Romney , will face a fiscal nightmare: a sluggish economy, a
massive tax increase, meat-axe spending reductions, the
expiration of extended jobless benefits, and a debt ceiling that
imperils the faith and credit of the U.S.  Both candidates, though especially Romney, are calculating
they can avoid specifics and focus on the other guy’s
deficiencies.  This week, MacGuineas’s group will launch a “Fix the
Debt” campaign with a bipartisan collection of politicians,
business leaders, economists to focus on the need for a
comprehensive debt deal. The co-chairmen will be former
Democratic Governor  Ed Rendell  of Pennsylvania and former
Republican Senator  Judd Gregg  of  New Hampshire .  If Obama and Romney believe this is a big-stakes election,
here’s how they could show it: Challenge their opponent to
present, by Sept. 15, a broad-based, specific budget/tax
 deficit-reduction  plan so Americans can compare and contrast and
discuss and debate before they vote.  Simpson-Bowles  The starting point should be the Bowles-Simpson deficit-
reduction plan of 2010. It commanded bipartisan support, and
Obama and Romney, while eschewing the specifics, praise it
conceptually.  It  calls  for a $4 trillion  deficit reduction  over 10 years,
achieved through about $1 trillion in higher taxes, $2.5
trillion in spending cuts and a $500 billion savings in debt
servicing.  A new proposal should target a $5 trillion reduction
because by September, the plan will be almost two years old and
it assumed the expiration of the  Bush-era tax cuts  for high-
income earners.  Obama and Romney can offer any mix of spending or
entitlement cuts or taxes as long as they’re specific.  One caveat: given the weakness of the economy, no
provisions would take effect for a year, so the target decade is
2014-2023.  The president appointed the Bowles-Simpson commission and
has yet to embrace its recommendations. He’s justifiably
criticized by business leaders such as  Wilbur Ross  who said
“it’s very sad” that Obama “totally backed away.” That’s the
stuff of legitimate Republican ads in the fall.  As Obama administration officials note, the president has
put out a long-term deficit-reduction plan. Yet this proposal
contains gimmicks: Once, it roughly mirrored Bowles-Simpson
numbers, but over 12 years, and with much less overall debt
reduction. Another time, the administration included the $1
trillion savings from ending the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan ,
which already had been counted.  On the tax side, the president would get about halfway to
his goal by eliminating cuts for the wealthy. He has been vague
about other  revenue raisers . “You can’t get enough money by
just taxing corporate jets or millionaires,” MacGuineas says.  White House officials insist Obama is willing to curb long-
term spending on Medicare and Social Security. They have
provided few details.  The Romney arithmetic is more problematic. If Ross is
“sad” about Obama’s evasion of Bowles-Simpson, he should be
depressed about Romney’s praise for the concept of the debt-
commission recommendations while rejecting most of the
specifics.  Tax Cuts  Romney has promised to reduce federal spending to 20
percent of gross domestic product in 10 years -- from 24 percent
now -- while raising defense spending by about $2 trillion. He
advocates $5 trillion of tax cuts: lowering the top individual
rate to 28 percent from 35 percent, eliminating the estate tax,
cutting capital-gains and dividend taxes and lowering the
corporate rate.  The numbers don’t add up. The candidate says he’d offset
the tax cuts by closing loopholes that help the rich, and
wouldn’t touch middle-class write offs such as the deductions
for home-mortgage payments or charitable contributions.  There isn’t a tax expert who thinks that’s possible. The
Romney campaign’s answer: We’re not going to say anything until
after the election. Thus, it’s fair to run ads this fall
asserting that Romney won’t say if he’s going to take away the
home-mortgage deduction.  Even aside from a tax drain, the defense increase Romney
proposes means he would need Draconian cuts in entitlements and
 domestic spending  to meet his balanced-budget pledge.  Democrats say he would dismantle Medicare and Social
Security. Obama says Romney would threaten millions of  student
loans , hundreds of thousands of kids might be denied early-
education programs and there’d be thousands fewer grants for
research on Alzheimer’s and cancer.  Republicans reply this is demagogy, while stonewalling any
specifics. “Romney wants to cap spending at 20 percent of
GDP,” MacGuineas says, “but he doesn’t want us to find out how
he’s going to get there until after he’s elected.”  If both candidates lay out a broad budget there could be a
debate over defense spending versus expenditures on health
research or student loans, or tax cuts for investors and estates
versus deeper cutbacks in Medicare. Listening to their rhetoric,
both Obama and Romney should welcome that debate.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View. Subscribe to
receive a daily e-mail highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 