-- Walking, Resistance Training May Improve Memory in Study
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-07-15T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/walking-resistance-training-may-improve-memory-in-study.html
Simple exercise, such as walking and
resistance training, improved thinking and memory in older
adults in several new studies that suggest physical activity
offers a key strategy in slowing mental decline.  One trial found that walking may boost brain volume in the
region for memory. Another showed that weight training helped
the mental function of older women with mild cognitive
impairment. The research was presented today at the  Alzheimer’s
Association  International Conference in Vancouver.  Current Alzheimer’s drugs offer only temporary improvement
in symptoms of the disease, which slowly destroys brain cells
and robs patients of memory, thinking, concentration and
function. Findings that even moderate amounts of exercise might
benefit the brain may offer patients a simple, non-
pharmaceutical tool to help to stave off mental decline, said
 Kirk Erickson , an author of one of the studies.  “People want to find a magic cure for Alzheimer’s disease,
but for memory function, a pair of sneakers might be just as
important,” Erickson, an assistant professor of psychology at
the  University of Pittsburgh  in  Pennsylvania , said in a July 13
telephone interview. “Physical activity appears to be an
incredibly promising and effective approach and a non-
pharmacological approach to improve brain function and hinder
the progression of potential disease states like dementia and
 Alzheimer’s disease . We have a lot more research to go before we
can sell this as a prescription.”  About 5.4 million Americans have Alzheimer’s and, by 2050,
that number is expected to grow to as many as 16 million,
according to the  Alzheimer’s Association . The number of people
worldwide with the condition is expected to swell to  115 million
by 2050 .  Brain Growth  In the trial led by Erickson, researchers looked at 120
adults without dementia who engaged in moderate walking three
times a week for 30 minutes to 45 minutes for a year or
stretching and toning for the same periods of time. The
researchers used magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI, to assess
the areas of the brain responsible for memory that usually
shrink with age.  They found a 2 percent growth in the area of the brain
called the anterior hippocampus in those who exercised compared
with those who engaged in stretching and toning.  “This is like essentially rolling back the clock by one to
two years,” Erickson said. More research is needed to determine
if growth in that area continues with repeated exercise or
levels off and what happens when someone stops exercising, he
said.  Weight Training  A separate study led by researchers from the University of
British Columbia in  Vancouver  found that twice-weekly weight
lifting, or resistance training, may help alter the rate of
mental decline in older women with mild cognitive impairment.  The trial followed 86 women ages 70 to 80 for six months
who did resistance training, walking or balance and toning twice
a week. Researchers found that the resistance-training group
improved significantly on tests of mental functioning and memory
over those in the balance and toning group. No memory benefit
was seen among the walkers versus the balance and toning group.  Teresa Liu-Ambrose , the study’s senior author and an
assistant professor of physical therapy at the Vancouver Coastal
Health Research Institute and the University of British
Columbia, said strength training, which may be easier than
aerobic activity such as walking for some older adults, requires
people to think and learn new exercises, which may be why it
worked better than walking in this study. Also, aerobic exercise
may have to be done more frequently than twice a week to yield
benefit in people already at risk for developing dementia, she
said.  New Focus  “Physical activity, whatever shape and form, is
beneficial,” she said in a July 13 telephone interview. What
 researchers  now need to focus on is refining who benefits from
which type of exercise program.  A step in that direction comes with the results from a
third trial today, which Liu-Ambrose was also the principal
investigator. That trial found that weight lifting is more
effective than balance and toning in improving or maintaining
selective attention and conflict resolution only among those
with less cognitive impairment. The exercises yielded similar
results in those who had more cognitive impairment.  A fourth study from  Japan  included 50 older adults with
mild dementia who were assigned to  exercise  that included
aerobic exercise, muscle strength training and postural balance
retraining for 90 minutes a day twice a week for a year, or to
an education group that attended three classes about health over
12 months. The researchers found that those in the exercise
group performed better on memory tests than those in the
education group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  