-- Wen Says China’s Economic Recovery Yet to Show Momentum
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-16T03:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/wen-warns-china-economic-rebound-not-stable-xinhua-says.html
China ’s Premier Wen Jiabao warned
that the nation’s recovery is yet to build up momentum, fueling
speculation that extra economic support measures may be
announced after a cabinet meeting this week.  “It should be clearly understood that the momentum for a
stable rebound in the economy has not yet been established,”
Wen said during an inspection tour in southwest Sichuan
province, according to a Chinese-language report from the
official Xinhua News Agency  yesterday. At the same time,
expansion is within the targeted range and measures to stabilize
growth are “bearing fruit,”  he said.  China’s State Council may this week give details of easing
measures to support growth after provincial visits by Wen and
Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  to check on the economy, Nomura
Holdings Inc. said in a note today. The China Securities
Journal reported that a meeting as early as July 18 may be
followed by policy steps, citing unidentified analysts.  “The State Council meeting may help shed some light on
specific policy easing measures,” said Zhang Zhiwei, a Hong
Kong-based economist for Nomura.  China’s stocks fell, dragging down the benchmark index by
the most in a week, on concern about the falling profits of
companies such as  ZTE Corp. (000063) , the nation’s second-biggest maker
of telecommunications equipment. The Shanghai Composite Index
fell 0.9 percent to 2,165.64 at 10:35 a.m. local time.  ‘Stable Rebound’  “We need to comprehensively assess the situation and
recognize the problems, difficulties and risks, in particular
the downward pressure on the economy,” Wen said.   The government will step up policy fine-tuning in the
second half to support growth, he said, reiterating comments he
made during a visit to eastern Jiangsu province earlier this
month.  China’s  gross domestic product  rose 7.6 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said
on July 13, the sixth straight slowdown. Industrial production
increased at a more moderate pace in June while retail sales
growth decelerated, the data showed.  Growth Estimate  Nomura cut its China growth forecasts after the data. The
bank now estimates expansion of 8.2 percent this year rather
than 8.4 percent, and a pace of 7.9 percent in 2013, down from
an earlier prediction of 8.2 percent.  Wen in March set a 2012 growth goal of 7.5 percent, down
from an 8 percent target in place since 2005.  Separately on July 13, the People’s Bank of China said weak
global demand will hinder growth, with the world situation
“extremely” complicated, according to the central bank’s 2012
financial-stability report.  The PBOC announced the second cut in  interest rates  in a
month on July 5 and has reduced banks’ reserve requirement ratio
three times starting in November.  During his visit to Jiangsu, Wen pledged to
“unswervingly” sustain property controls and prevent a rebound
in prices. Yesterday’s report on the premier’s tour in Sichuan
from July 13 to 15 didn’t contain any reference to the real-
estate market or property prices.  At an economic forum in Chengdu on July 14 with officials
from five central and western provinces, Wen said the
“fundamentals for economic development remain sound” and that
“many bright spots are emerging in the course of development,”
according to Xinhua. “The drivers and potential for economic
growth are still relatively large,” he said.  Summer Harvest  The “bumper harvest” over the summer has provided a solid
foundation for stable economic growth, helping to stabilize
prices, Wen said. The monthly deceleration in prices “gives the
government more scope for macro-economic controls,” he said.  Inflation eased to 2.2 percent in June from a year earlier,
the lowest rate in 29 months, while producer prices fell for the
fourth month, government reports on July 9 showed.  China “must do everything possible” to expand jobs,
paying particular attention to the employment of college
graduates, Wen said, according to Xinhua.  The government will pay more attention to encouraging
growth of private enterprises and provide financial and tax
support, Wen said, although he pointed out that companies must
also help themselves by innovating and upgrading their products.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net ;
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  