-- West Australia 5th Fatal Shark Attack in Year Shuts Beaches
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-07-15T05:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/west-australia-5th-fatal-shark-attack-in-year-shuts-beaches-1-.html
Western  Australia  state closed
beaches and began hunting for a great white shark believed to be
responsible for the fifth fatal attack in less than a year, the
fisheries department said.  The shark yesterday took a surfer off an isolated beach at
Wedge Island, 160 kilometers (100 miles) north of the state
capital, Perth, the department’s Shark Response Unit spokesman,
Tony Cappelluti, said in a phone interview today. The man’s
remains haven’t been recovered.  “We’ve had officers patrolling the beach since first light
today and there’s been no further sightings of the shark,”
Cappelluti said. Beaches in the area will remain closed until
tomorrow morning, he said.  There are 165 shark species in Australian waters and
several, including great white, tiger and bull sharks, are
dangerous to humans. Western Australia, which is spending A$14
million ($14.3 million) over the next four years to reduce the
risk of attacks, had four fatal shark attacks in a six-month
period from last September to last March, according to website
 sharkattackfile .  Tourism operators  in Western Australia, the region at the
forefront of the nation’s mining boom, attempt to lure domestic
and international visitors to the state’s 12,000-kilometer-long
coastline which is studded with pristine beaches. The  tourism
industry  reaps about A$8.1 billion a year and creates 73,300
jobs, according to a Tourism Council document released last
year.  Serious Problem  The 24-year-old man who died was paddling his surf board
when he was taken, the Australian Broadcasting Corp. reported,
citing a witness whose jet-ski was also attacked by the shark he
described as being five meters (16 feet) long. The man tried to
recover the body before the shark took it, he said.  Western Australia may have to review the policy of
protecting great white sharks, said the state’s fisheries
minister, Norman Moore, according to ABC. He was cited as saying
he was perplexed as to how to counter the shark attacks, which
have become a serious problem.  Tourism operators will be banned from feeding the predators
to attract them to cage dives, a practice that might change
their behavior in ways posing potential risks to the public, the
state government said July 8.  Studies  by Australia’s government scientific agency, the
Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation,
weren’t clear about whether feeding great white sharks changed
their behavior in the long term, the government said. Such risk
must be set against any economic benefits, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  