-- Wiggins Keeps Tour de France Lead as Tack Sabotage Causes Chaos
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-07-15T23:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/wiggins-maintains-lead-as-sabotage-causes-tour-de-france-chaos.html
Bradley Wiggins retained the overall
lead in the  Tour de France  after a stage marred by a spate of
punctures caused by metal tacks thrown on the road.  Race organizers condemned the sabotage by a few spectators
as stupid and dangerous. About 30 riders, including Wiggins and
defending champion  Cadel Evans , had punctures during yesterday’s
14th stage, which was won by  Spain ’s Luis Leon Sanchez.  “What can you do? It’s something we can’t control,”
Wiggins told reporters. “There’s nothing stopping more of that
sort of stuff happening. It’s sad, those are the type of things
we have to put up with as cyclists.”  The 191-kilometer (118-mile) route from Limoux to Foix was
the first in the Pyrenees and featured two category-one climbs,
including the final Mur de Peguere with an incline of 18 percent
in places. The punctures didn’t ultimately affect the leaders’
placings in the  overall classification .  Today’s 15th stage is a 158.5-kilometer ride from Samatan
to Pau. The Tour ends July 22 in Paris.  One or two spectators threw small nails on to the road
yesterday, race official Jean-Francois Pescheux was cited as
saying by  Agence France-Presse .  “We don’t know why,” he said. “The nails were mainly
thrown on the ground around 200 meters from the summit of the
Peguere climb. At the end, some riders ended up with two or
three nails in their tires.”  Sanchez went clear of a breakaway about 10 kilometers from
the end of the stage to clinch his fourth career stage win in
the Tour. Then came green-jersey holder Peter Sagan, 47 seconds
behind, with Sandy Casar, Philippe Gilbert and Gorka Izaguirre.  Yellow Jersey  Wiggins leads by two minutes, five seconds from Team Sky
teammate Chris Froome after both finished in the main group.
Vincenzo Nibali of Liquigas is 18 seconds further back, followed
by Evans. The Australian, who had to make three wheel changes in
a 10-minute span yesterday, remains 3:19 behind Wiggins, who
slowed the pace to allow Evans to return to the peloton.  Wiggins wore the leader’s yellow jersey for a seventh day,
a record for a British rider. A Briton has never won the Tour.  The 11-rider breakaway went about 14 minutes clear with 40
kilometers to go as they neared the final ascent. The leading
group was strung out on the last climb, with Sagan under
pressure as Sanchez and then Casar pushed ahead at the front.  Casar led the way down the descent on a 38-kilometer run-in
to the finish. Sagan then took over the lead before Sanchez, from
the Rabobank team, broke away to win.  Peloton Punctures  While the breakaway riders weren’t affected by punctures,
the main group was. Evans had a puncture at the top of the climb
and lost time as his replacement wheel also punctured.  The peloton maintained a steady pace under  Team Sky ’s
control, waiting for BMC Racing’s Evans to recover in line with
Tour etiquette. Although Pierre Rolland attacked, he was
eventually absorbed into the pack.  “So many guys punctured at once, it became quite apparent
very quickly that something was up,” said Wiggins, who
criticized Rolland for the breakaway.  “It was a little bit uncouth,” Wiggins added. “It didn’t
seem the honorable thing to do, to benefit from other people’s
misfortune.”  Rolland defended his actions.  ‘Really Sorry’  “It was only when I was caught by the peloton and they
asked my why I’d attacked that I found out there had been mass
punctures,” he told reporters. “What they’re accusing me of
saddens me. I’m really sorry.”  Evans suffered two more flats on the way down, though got
back in action quickly. Wiggins also had a blowout before
rejoining the peloton on the descent.  By the end of the stage, the main group had got back
together and finished riding a steady tempo, more than 18
minutes behind the stage winner.  “We came back with the whole group and Sky was really
honest and didn’t attack in the front,” John Lelangue, sporting
director of Evans’s BMC team, told his team’s website. “They
were really fair.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 