-- Wolseley’s New Cousin Shuns Excess for Bargain Dining
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-07-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/wolseley-s-new-cousin-shuns-excess-for-bargain-dining.html
Imagine a grand  London  restaurant,
with high ceilings and beautiful Art Deco designs, where the
rich and famous come to dine, or possibly just to see and be
seen. Sounds like the Wolseley, doesn’t it?  There’s a new alternative, with a slight difference.
Brasserie Zedel -- the latest establishment of Wolseley owners
Chris Corbin and  Jeremy King  -- is beautiful and richly
decorated, yet features some of the lowest prices in London.  Five starters cost less than 3 pounds ($4.66) and five
mains are below 10 pounds. Desserts start at 2.75 pounds. The
prix fixe menu is 11.25 pounds for three courses. Wine starts at
3 pounds a glass, or 16 pounds a bottle. Sparkling wine is 29
pounds. Double espresso? That will be 2.10 pounds.  This Soho space, near  Piccadilly Circus , once housed the
Atlantic Bar & Grill, a venue so hip the entrance was behind a
velvet rope policed by bouncers. While the Atlantic was home to
excess -- I was there, I’m sure I was -- Zedel is dignified.  The menu is long and seductive. The choice of 20 starters
means you can just order a selection of small plates and share
without even reaching the six fish and eight meat dishes. That
wouldn’t be a bad idea. Simple options such as egg mayonnaise,
tomato-and-shallot salad, grated celeriac with Dijon mayonnaise
and duck-liver parfait are among my favorites.  Steak Hache  Not much can go wrong with those dishes in a brasserie that
may be pushing through many hundreds of guests a day and where
it will be a challenge to ensure consistency. Mains such as
grilled baby chicken with tarragon vinaigrette (13 pounds) or
slow-cooked duck leg, garlic potatoes (9.75 pounds) are simple
and good enough. My favorite is steak hache, spicy onion sauce,
French fries (7.50 pounds.)  Zedel is a great place for desserts, such as floating
island (2.75 pounds or profiteroles with hot chocolate sauce
(4.50 pounds). My favorite was a lemon sorbet with Champagne.  How do they manage such low prices? The ingredients are
chosen carefully to keep down costs and a high volume of diners
is necessary to offset narrow margins. That means service may be
less attentive than you would like. At least it’s authentic:
When I recall brasseries and bistros I’ve visited in  France ,
service has often been a tad brusque. It’s part of the charm.  Just don’t go thinking this is Wolseley Light, or Delaunay
Diffusion, another London brasserie owned by Corbin and King.
It’s a different kettle of fish.  While Zedel doesn’t serve the best food in London, it does
offer some of the best value. It’s a place to eat and drink with
friends. If the low prices hold once the initial excitement has
died down and the critics have moved on, Zedel has the potential
to become a cherished part of the London dining scene.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? About 20-30 pounds a head, plus wine.  Sound level? Low until full: about 65 decibels.  Inside tip? There’s plenty of space for walk-ins.  Special feature? There’s a cabaret space.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Yes.  Rating? ***.  Brasserie Zedel is at 20 Sherwood Street, London, W1F 7ED.
Information: +44-20-7734-4888 or  http://www.brasseriezedel.com/ .  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Amanda
Gordon  on  New York  scene.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 