-- Zach Johnson Wins John Deere in Playoff Ahead of British Open
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-15/zach-johnson-wins-playoff-against-matteson-at-john-deere-classic.html
Zach Johnson  beat Troy Matteson in a
playoff to win golf’s  John Deere  Classic, ending  Steve Stricker ’s three-year run as champion at the final U.S. PGA Tour
event before the  British Open .  After Johnson and Matteson both made a double-bogey on the
first playoff hole yesterday, Johnson hit a 6-iron from a
fairway bunker to within a foot of the flag on the second extra
hole -- again the par-4 18th -- to set up the winning birdie.  “It’s one of the best results of my career,” Johnson said
at a news conference. “When it comes to execution, it’s up
there, probably way up there.”  Johnson had shot a 6-under-par 65 during the final round to
erase a four-shot deficit and tie Matteson, who closed with a
69, including a 60-foot (18 meter) eagle putt at the 17th hole.
Both players finished with a four-round score of 20-under par
264 at the TPC Deere Run in Silvis,  Illinois .  Johnson, 36, received $828,000 for his ninth career PGA
Tour title and second this year, having also won the Crowne
Plaza Invitational in May. Johnson and Stricker were the only
two players in the field in the top 20 of the  Official World
Golf Ranking , with Johnson entering the week at No. 17.
Stricker, who was ranked 13th, tied for fifth place at 16 under.  Johnson now heads to the British Open at Royal Lytham & St.
Annes in northwest England, where the third of golf’s four major
championships will be played July 19-22.  “I’m excited about it,” Johnson said. “I heard the
forecast is brutal, but if you have any expectations I guess
that’s what you should have. England is supposed to be really
wet. That’s the way it is. Go tee up and play.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  