-- 
A Simple, Cost-Free Remedy for the Hard-Core Unemployed: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-25T18:39:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/a-simple-cost-free-remedy-for-the-hard-core-unemployed-view.html
Some day the economic slump will be
over, and then where will we be? The slowdown has hit Americans
hard, but not equally hard. The  unemployment rate  is 8.1 percent
for white Americans. For Hispanics, it’s considerably higher --
 11.3 percent . And it’s almost double for blacks --  15.9 percent .  The economic gap between the races has widened, partly
because their job prospects have diverged. A  recent study  by the
Pew Research Center reveals that the median household worth for
whites was 20 times that for blacks and 18 times that for
Hispanics in 2009. The differentials were roughly twice what
they had been since 1984, when Pew first started tracking this
data. The Great Recession has produced a less egalitarian
society.  The principal causes of higher joblessness among blacks and
Hispanics are deep and inter-related: higher incarceration
rates, lower education levels and, yes, discrimination. These
problems don’t lend themselves to quick solutions or cheap ones.
Yet they can be addressed, in part, with a specific remedy.  It’s a simple idea called Ban the Box.  The box at issue is the one on many if not most job
applications that asks whether the candidate has a criminal
record, meaning at least one arrest. A number of  studies  have
shown that when the answer is yes, which is much more often the
case with blacks and Hispanics than with whites, an applicant’s
chances are greatly diminished.  Rap Sheets  It’s not surprising that an employer who knows an applicant
has a record would judge him or her largely on that fact rather
than on the merits of the application. So the Ban-the-Box
initiative reverses the order of things. The movement encourages
employers to ask about rap sheets only when applicants are
finalists, and then to consider how a criminal past may -- or
may not -- actually affect an individual’s ability to do the
job.  Starting with Boston in 2004, 24 U.S. cities, three
counties and six states so far have  banned the box  in their
hiring practices by adopting laws or resolutions or simply
changing recruitment policies. Hawaii,  Massachusetts  and the
city of Philadelphia have extended the box ban to private
employers.  A number of these jurisdictions have also stipulated that
those doing the hiring must apply the  standards  of the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission to disqualify candidates based
on criminal records. Those policies encourage managers to
consider the nature and gravity of the offense, how long ago it
was committed and how it relates to the job sought. A bust for
marijuana possession, for instance, probably wouldn’t affect the
ability of a receptionist, clerk or janitor to do the job.  Fewer Rejections  After banning the box in 2007,  Minneapolis , which alone
seems to have collected data on the ban’s effect, found that
fewer job applicants were rejected because of a criminal
conviction. It also found that 57 percent of those deemed a
“concern” were hired nonetheless. What’s more, considering
criminal history only at the point of a job offer reduced staff
time spent on screening prospective employees.  Other jurisdictions would be wise to adopt the reform in
their hiring practices, as would companies, voluntarily.
(Disclosure: Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, asks
job applicants about convictions within the previous seven years
that haven’t been cleared from the record and states that such a
history won’t necessarily disqualify the candidate.)  Avoiding Troublemakers  Many employers use a criminal record, even if an arrest did
not result in a conviction, as a blunt way to avoid hiring
troublemakers. But since about  30 percent  of American adults
have a record, according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics,
the measure is too crude. Employers are denying themselves the
possibility of finding candidates who just might be right for
the job at hand.  Private employers are also forgoing benefits. An employer
who hires an ex-offender can claim a federal  Work Opportunity
Tax Credit  of as much as $2,400. And under the Labor
Department’s  Federal Bonding Program , the employer is entitled
to free, zero-deductible insurance to protect against losses
resulting from any dishonest acts by such an employee.  Improving the job prospects of those with a criminal past
benefits society as well. The odds of an ex-offender returning
to crime are greatly reduced if he or she has a job. Banning the
box isn’t going to solve a stubborn problem but, as the
 Minneapolis  experience shows, it’s a start.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 