-- 
A-Tec Supervisory Board Made Decision on Sale, Penta Says

-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 
2011-08-25T14:30:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/a-tec-supervisory-board-made-decision-on-sale-penta-says-1-.html
     Aug. 25 (Bloomberg) --  A-Tec Industries AG (ATEC) ’s supervisory
board has made a decision about the sale of the insolvent
Austrian engineering firm, bidder Penta Investments Ltd. said,
citing a statement from the company.  A-Tec also said in the statement that the company cannot
provide any further details about the nature of the decisions
that were made or whether the supervisory board chose the winner
of the sale or postponed the procedure, Penta investment manager
Jakub Korinek said in a telephone interview today. The
supervisory-board decision needs to be signed off by A-Tec’s
insolvency administrator, he said.  Penta, based in Prague, submitted a bid to buy and
restructure all of A-Tec assets in June. It was approached last
week by A-Tec’s Chief Executive Officer Mirko Kovats, who asked
it to bid for only the minerals and metals division, Korinek
said on Aug 23. A-Tec, majority owned by Kovats, filed for
insolvency on Oct. 20 last year after efforts by the Vienna-
based company to refinance a bond failed. The insolvency is
 Austria ’s third largest in postwar history.  Other bidders for A-Tec include hedge fund Springwater
Capital and Pakistani billionaire Alshair Fiyaz, Format magazine
reported, without citing anyone.  Penta said in a separate statement that should a competing
bidder be closely tied to an A-Tec employee it would consider
this a “disruption of the defined rules of the bidding
process.” According to a Aug. 23 report in Boerse-Express
newsletter Fiyaz is bidding via a vehicle headed by an A-Tec
employee.  Founded in 1994 as a stock brokerage, Penta moved into
private-equity investments in 2000. It controls about 30
companies, including retail chain Zabka Polska SA and Aero
Vodochody, a Czech aircraft producer. Penta has 2.7 billion
euros ($3.63 billion) of total assets, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in  Prague  at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  