-- 
Madoff Whistle-Blower Feared Mobsters Would Kill Him: Interview

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-08-25T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/madoff-whistle-blower-feared-mobsters-would-kill-to-stop-probe-interview.html
Harry Markopolos  knew right away
that  Bernie Madoff  was a crook.  While working for Rampart Investment Management in 1999,
Markopolos was told about a  money manager  whose consistent
profits seemed too good to be true. When Markopolos looked at
Madoff’s financial records, he saw that the returns rose
steadily at a 45-degree angle, with none of the wide swings
usually associated with big-time investors.  “It was like a baseball player batting .966 for an entire
season,” Markopolos said in an interview to promote the
documentary “ Chasing Madoff ,” which chronicles his nine-year
quest to expose Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  Markopolos alerted the Securities and Exchange Commission
several times, but the agency failed to investigate. The swindle
continued until Madoff confessed to his family and was arrested
in December 2008. Madoff, now 73, pleaded guilty and was
sentenced to 150 years in prison.  With his thinning brown hair and lanky build, the 54-year-
old Markopolos looks more like a middle-aged accountant than a
feared gumshoe. Markopolos, now an independent fraud
investigator in  Boston , wore a blue suit, a mustard-colored
shirt and a brightly patterned tie as we spoke in  New York  last
week.  Warner: Madoff is going to die in jail. Do you feel
vindicated?  Markopolos: No, I feel regret that he wasn’t stopped
earlier. We tried, but nobody would listen.  Sociopath’s Apology  Warner: Madoff has apologized to his victims. Do you think
he’s sincere?  Markopolos: I don’t trust any apology from a sociopath.
It doesn’t make me feel any better about what happened, and it
certainly doesn’t help the victims. He’s a man who caused so
much misery and heartbreak.  Warner: Why were you ignored for so long?  Markopolos: Because the case was too big. Nobody would
believe that the world’s biggest hedge fund was a fraud.  Warner: What about the SEC? Isn’t it their job to catch
financial crooks?  Markopolos: The SEC had been captured by the industry it
was supposed to regulate. Instead of protecting investors from
Wall Street predators, it was protecting Wall Street predators
from defrauded investors. The SEC wasn’t corrupt. It was
systematically incompetent, which is far worse.  Feared for Life  Warner: For a while, you feared for your life and carried a
gun. What made you so scared?  Markopolos: I discovered that Russian and Colombian
gangsters were placing large sums into feeder funds, which were
then giving the money to Bernie. If the  Ponzi scheme  unraveled,
they were going to lose a lot of money. And people like that
have a unique way of handling manager terminations.  Warner: Do you think Madoff’s family knew about the scam?  Markopolos: Of course they did. The sons were marketing for
Bernie, and his wife helped with the accounting. Bernie’s
younger brother, Peter, was chief compliance officer and Peter’s
daughter, Shana, was the No. 2 compliance person.
It’s ludicrous to think that the family wasn’t involved.  Warner: What about the clients? Did some of them know what
Madoff was doing?  Markopolos: They had to suspect that Bernie was a crook.
But as long as he was stealing on their behalf, they weren’t
going to ask too many questions.  Picard’s Recovery  Warner:  Irving Picard , the trustee in charge of liquidating
Madoff’s company, has recovered about half of the $17.3 billion
in principal that investors lost. Do you think he’s doing a good
job?  Markopolos: Picard has exceeded all expectations.
You can trade on Picard’s claims, and the last time I checked
they were trading 70 cents on the dollar. That implies that
Picard will recover between 85 cents and a dollar on every
dollar lost.  Warner: Last year, Congress approved sweeping regulatory
reform of the financial industry. Do you think that will prevent
another Madoff?  Markopolos: Only nine people have been arrested in the U.S.
in the Madoff case. What kind of message does that send? I think
the lesson is, crime pays. Same thing with the big banks that
generated tons of falsified mortgage loans. What happened to
them? They all got bailed out.  “Chasing Madoff,” from Cohen Media Group, opens tomorrow
in New York, Boston,  Washington , Miami and  Los Angeles .  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 