-- 
Madoff Trustee Sues Delta National Bank Seeking at Least $20.6 Million

-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-08-25T18:45:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/madoff-trustee-sues-delta-national-bank-seeking-at-least-20-6-million.html
The liquidator of Bernard L. Madoff’s firm sued Delta National Bank and Trust Co. to recover
at least $20.6 million allegedly received from investments made
with the money manager by Fairfield Sentry Ltd.  Irving Picard , the trustee overseeing the liquidation of
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, claims Fairfield
transferred “customer property” to Delta Bank, according to
court papers filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  Picard, who has filed more than 1,000 suits, is pursuing
comparatively small amounts from investors who redeemed money
from the feeders before Madoff’s 2008 arrest. The trustee’s
settlement with Walter Noel’s Fairfield Sentry was approved in
court in June.  Delta Bank, based in New York, has about $3.2 billion in
assets under management, and “claims to utilize prudent
management strategy,” Picard said in court papers.  Officials at Delta’s office in New York weren’t immediately
available to comment on the legal action. Ricciardo Ricciardelli, managing director of Unifortune in
 London , didn’t immediately return an e-mailed message seeking
comment on the lawsuit.  Picard is also seeking at least $26.8 million from
Unifortune Asset Management Sgr Spa and Unifortune Conservative
Fund and at least $14.8 million from DEZ Financial Management
Ltd., according to court filings.  Officials of DEZ Financial, based in the British Virgin
Islands, couldn’t immediately be located for comment.  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
has been called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history. He’s in a
federal prison in  North Carolina , serving a 150-year sentence.  The case is Picard v. Delta National Bank and Trust Co.,
11-2551, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 