-- 
Advanced Micro Names Lenovo’s Rory Read Chief After a Seven-Month Search

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-08-25T18:38:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/advanced-micro-names-lenovo-s-rory-read-chief-after-a-seven-month-search.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ,  Intel
Corp. (INTC) ’s largest rival in computer processors, named Lenovo Group
Ltd. Chief Operating Officer Rory Read to replace ousted Chief
Executive Officer Dirk Meyer.  The appointment concludes a seven-month search, slowed by
rejections from leading technology executives. Read, who spent
23 years at IBM, is a “proven leader with an impressive record
of driving profitable growth,” Bruce Claflin, AMD’s chairman,
said today in a statement.  While new leadership will ease investor frustration, an
executive with more experience in either mobile or business
computers would have been a better choice, said Alex Gauna, an
analyst at JMP Securities in San Francisco. Meyer was ousted
from AMD in January after a disagreement with the board over the
company’s failure to regain market share in server computers and
move into tablets and smartphones.  “It’s a positive for the company to have anyone in the
seat,” said Gauna, who has a “market underperform” rating on
the stock. “The bio doesn’t inspire any optimism that a
turnaround is imminent.”  Read, 49, said he wants AMD to “go faster” and take
advantage of the company’s Fusion product line, which combine
processors and graphics features on one chip. The company gained
share in  notebook computers  in the second quarter with the first
versions of Fusion, according to Dean McCarron, an analyst at
Mercury Research.  ‘Scratching the Surface’  “We’re just scratching the surface of where we need to
go,” Read said on a conference call. “We need to do what we
say and own what we do.”  Read has been tasked with increasing the company’s
performance in its existing markets, improving profitability and
developing “thoughtful” strategy to take it into new areas,
Claflin said. No restrictions have been placed on what approach
he can take, he said.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  Co-President  Mark Hurd ;; EMC Corp. Chief
Operating Officer Pat Gelsinger; Carlyle Group  Managing Director 
Greg Summe; and Apple Inc.’s  Tim Cook , set to succeed  Steve Jobs 
as CEO, all spurned approaches from the Sunnyvale, California-
based company, according to people familiar with the search.  Read, who starts immediately, will get a $1 million signing
bonus and $1 million annual salary, with a 150 percent
performance-related bonus, according to a filing.  Profit Gains  Read, who has a bachelor’s degree in  information systems 
from Hartwick College, was running Lenovo’s Americas group in
2007 when it improved profit by $140 million and sales by 14
percent, according to the personal-computer maker’s  website . He
was  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s Asia Pacific region
general manager for business innovation and worked in the
company’s Global Services division.  AMD Chief Financial Officer Thomas Seifert, who is serving
as interim CEO and had said he didn’t want the job permanently,
will revert to his previous role. The Chicago-based recruitment
firm  Heidrick & Struggles  worked with AMD on the search.  The stock rose 11 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $6.45 at 2:17
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. AMD shares
had declined 22 percent this year before today.  Founded in 1969, AMD has less than 20 percent of the
computer processor market, and the company has reported a profit
in only four of the past 10 years. AMD also doesn’t make chips
for smartphones and tablets -- a market that’s expanding faster
than PCs.  Under Meyer and his predecessor,  Hector Ruiz , AMD suffered
product delays that cost it orders in the lucrative market for
chips used in server machines. AMD’s share of that industry
peaked at 26 percent in 2006, according to Cave Creek, Arizona-
based Mercury Research. At the end of the first quarter of 2011,
its share had fallen to 6.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  