-- 
Japan’s Kan Poised to Resign as Bills Pass

-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-08-26T04:35:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/maehara-s-misstep-may-become-blessing-in-japan-leadership-race.html
Japan’s parliament passed two pieces
of legislation that Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said were
conditions for him to resign as early today, setting up a
succession battle that will play out by early next week.  The Diet’s upper house passed bills to subsidize renewable
energy and authorize the sale of deficit bonds, and Kan told
ruling party executives he will resign, according to a lawmaker
who attended the meeting. Former Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara ,
49, is the public’s favorite to replace Kan and will run against
Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , 54, Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda ,
62, and Agriculture Minister Michihiko Kano, 69.  The winner will inherit an economy burdened by three
straight quarters of contraction, the world’s largest debt and a
currency at a postwar high that threatens to undermine an
export-driven recovery. Maehara has called on the Bank of  Japan 
to expand its balance sheet to fight deflation and advocates
lowering trade barriers to boost economic growth.  “Maehara is untainted by the last five months of Kan’s
administration and the disaster response,” said Jun Okumura, a
senior adviser at the  Eurasia Group  in Tokyo, who added that
Maehara will also benefit from being the public’s favorite among
 Democratic Party of Japan  candidates to succeed Kan in opinion
polls. “Many DPJ Diet members will be making their choice with
the next election in mind.”  The Yomiuri newspaper said Kan will publicly announce his
resignation at a 2 p.m. meeting of ruling party lawmakers.  Japan Disaster  Five days after Maehara quit his post on March 6, an
earthquake and tsunami wrecked Japan’s northeast, killing at
least 15,000 people and causing a nuclear disaster that forced
60,000 from their homes. The resignation of Kan, blamed by the
opposition and DPJ colleagues for a slow reaction to a meltdown
at an atomic power plant, paves the way for an Aug. 29 DPJ
leadership race.  Japanese stocks swung between gains and losses ahead of a
speech by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  today, with
the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average little changed at 1:25 p.m. in
Tokyo. The yen rose 0.2 percent to 77.32 per dollar. Japan’s
currency has gained about 18 percent since Kan took office on
June 8, 2010, while the Nikkei has declined 8 percent in the
same period.  The Yomiuri said the prime minister would announce his
decision to step down at a meeting today of DPJ lawmakers,
without saying where it got the information. Also running are
former Transport Minister  Sumio Mabuchi  and ex-Environment
Minister  Sakihito Ozawa .  Party Divide  Whoever prevails will face a party divide over whether to
raise taxes to pare debt and rebuild, after Moody’s Investors
Service this week cited political volatility as one reason for
cutting the country’s credit rating. Maehara, who would be the
youngest premier since World War II, said in a June interview
that deflation should be defeated before raising taxes.  Noda supports tax increases to pay for reconstruction as
well as doubling the sales levy to 10 percent by the middle of
the decade to contain the debt burden. Kaieda and Kano have yet
to specify their positions.  Indicating a willingness to break with entrenched policies,
Maehara as transport minister pushed Japan Airlines Co. to file
for bankruptcy in 2010 after the carrier had received emergency
loans three times from previous governments headed by the
Liberal  Democratic Party . JAL is expected to report an operating
profit this year after cutting flights, staff and planes.  ‘Alleviated’  “We can expect political instability to be alleviated
somewhat if Maehara becomes prime minister,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities in Tokyo and a
former  Bank of Japan  official. “He is regarded as someone with
leadership and understands the importance of making progress on
fiscal issues.”  Maehara was the most popular choice to become the next
prime minister according to a Yomiuri poll published Aug. 8,
with 21 percent support. Noda had 5 percent. One voter in five
had no preference.  Noda has been Kan’s point man in promoting economic
recovery. The government plans to spend 19 trillion yen ($246
billion) to rebuild from the disaster over the next five years.
Like Maehara, Noda attended the Matsushita Institute of
Government and Management, established in 1979 by  Panasonic Corp. (6752) 
founder Konosuke Matsushita.  The new prime minister will also have to shape the
country’s energy policy, after Kan announced that Japan will
reduce its dependence on atomic power following the nuclear
fallout from Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  Maehara told the Shukan Asahi magazine this month that his
views on atomic energy are largely in line with Kan, and that
Japan should aim to phase it out within the next 20 years.  Backroom Deals  Voters have soured on the DPJ since it ousted the LDP from
50 years of almost unbroken rule in August 2009. The party has
failed to fulfill its pledge to extract the country from two
decades of economic stagnation, while repeating the LDP’s
revolving door of leaders. Kan’s successor will be the third DPJ
chief in two years.  With the DPJ leadership race likely to be determined by
backroom deals, public popularity doesn’t ensure Maehara will
win. Party powerbroker  Ichiro Ozawa , who attempted to oust Kan
in June, retains the loyalty of more than 100 of the 407 DPJ
legislators. Ozawa won’t support Maehara’s bid after consulting
yesterday with former Prime Minister  Yukio Hatoyama , the Yomiuri
and Asahi newspapers reported, without citing anyone.  ‘Balance of Power’  “Ozawa may hold the balance of power,” said Steven R. Reed, a professor of political science at Chuo University in
 Tokyo . Maehara must try and placate Ozawa’s followers without
seeming under his influence or risk losing public support, Reed
added.  Maehara quit as foreign minister after admitting he
received 250,000 yen from a South Korean resident of Japan in
violation of laws barring political contributions by foreign
nationals. He also stepped down as DPJ head in 2006 after a
colleague falsely accused another lawmaker of accepting a bribe.  “His leadership record is mixed,” said  Koichi Nakano , a
political science professor at  Sophia University  in Tokyo. At
the same time, Maehara “doesn’t belong to the old school of
Japanese politics, which is to his advantage,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  