-- 
AFL-CIO’s Trumka Says Obama Must ‘Step Up to the Plate’ on Jobs

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-08-25T14:33:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/afl-cio-s-trumka-says-obama-must-step-up-to-the-plate-on-jobs.html
AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka 
called on President  Barack Obama  to “step up to the plate” on
jobs, saying that union members want signals that the
administration will help them.  “Will he commit all his energy to offering bold solutions,
or will he continue to work with the  Tea Party ?”  Trumka, head
of the largest U.S. labor union organization, said today in
Washington at a breakfast with reporters hosted by the Christian
Science Monitor.  Trumka said he urged Obama during a recent meeting to
“propose what is necessary” in a speech on  job creation  next
month, and “not what is possible.”  “If he falls into nibbling around the edges, history will
judge him, and working people will judge him,” he said.  Obama is planning to speak on the economy after the Sept. 5
U.S. Labor Day holiday. In conjunction with actions to shrink
the nation’s long-term deficit, Obama is considering steps to
give a quick boost to employment, including an expanded
infrastructure spending program, tax incentives for hiring
workers, a cut in the  payroll tax  paid by employers and worker
retraining programs.  U.S. unemployment was 9.1 percent in July amid signs of
sluggish growth and economists have raised their unemployment
forecasts for next year.  Trumka in June told Bloomberg News that Obama faces waning
enthusiasm from union members as he prepares for his 2012 re-
election bid. The labor-Obama rift widened this month after a
dozen unions said they plan to boycott next year’s Democratic
national political convention.  2012 Convention  Trumka said today the AFL-CIO is considering its role in
the convention and a decision will be tied to Obama’s job-
creation proposals. “We want to see if he is going to step up
to the plate,” he said.  Trumka meets regularly with Obama to discuss labor’s
agenda, and serves on a White House advisory board on economic
recovery and jobs. Trumka dismissed the notion that labor is a
major influence the president’s policy from his role on the
board. “That’s a business panel,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in  Washington  at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  