-- 
Africa Pledges $351.7 Million for Famine Crisis At Ethiopian Conference

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-08-25T17:22:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/africa-pledges-351-7-million-for-famine-crisis-at-ethiopian-conference.html
Africa pledged $351.7 million in
cash to combat the worst drought in the Horn of African region
for 60 years, which has led to a famine, said  Jean Ping ,
chairman of the  African Union  Commission.  Another $28 million was promised in kind, he told reporters
at a conference in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia’s capital, today.  Some 12.5 million people are in need of assistance,
according to the  United Nations , with Somalia the most severely
affected. Aid agencies are largely barred from operating in
areas in Somalia held by al-Qaeda-affiliated rebel group al-
Shabaab, which has been fighting the Western-backed government
since 2007. More than 600,000 Somali refugees have already fled
to over-burdened camps in neighboring states, Ping said.  The Addis Ababa conference marks the first “large scale”
African effort to deal with a humanitarian crisis, he said.  The funding includes $300 million from the Tunis-based
 African Development Bank  in loans and grants for the region
through 2013, Country Director Lamin Barrow said in an
interview. Algeria pledged $10 million and  Angola  offered $5
million.  Of a total of $2.5 billion needed to combat the crisis, the
African Union said in an e-mailed statement yesterday that only
$1.1 billion has been collected so far.  The international response has been “slow and tardy,” said
Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi. A quicker effort to deal
with a crisis that was predicted “almost a year ago” could have
been made, said Irungu Houghton, Oxfam Pan-Africa Director, in
an interview.  “People have to die, people have to be seen with extending
and protruding bellies,” he said. “We have to see misery in
order for some of our political leaders to take responsibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 