-- 
Aging Reactors Mean Japan Faces $13B in Costs

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-08-25T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/aging-reactors-mean-japan-faces-13-billion-decommissioning-cost.html
More than a third of Japan’s nuclear
reactors will need to apply for license extensions within five
years or face decommissioning at a time when the industry’s
safety record is in tatters after the Fukushima disaster.  The country’s 54 reactors were licensed for 30 years and
operators can  apply for 10-year extensions  to a maximum life of
six decades. Twenty-one are nearing renewal, according to data
from utilities and the  World Nuclear Association . Of those seven
will enter their fifth decade if extensions are granted, which
should be avoided, according to a professor of metallurgy.  “Nuclear reactors shouldn’t be in operation for more than
40 years,” said Hiromitsu Ino at the  University of Tokyo . “You
can renew electrical wiring and other parts but you can’t do
anything with their pressure vessels. They just get old and
deteriorate, increasing the risk of accidents.”  Closing down about 17,000 megawatts of capacity, enough to
power nearly 14 million average U.S. homes, would add to the
electricity supply crunch that this summer resulted in Japan’s
first mandatory power savings measures since the 1970s. It would
also trigger 1 trillion yen ($13 billion) in  decommissioning 
costs, according to estimates by Kazuya Idemitsu, a professor of
materials engineering at  Kyushu University .  Opinions polls show about 70 percent of the Japanese public
wants to reduce reliance on nuclear power after the March
earthquake and tsunami caused three meltdowns at the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi station. One of the damaged reactors was certified to
run for a fifth decade only a month earlier.  Defraying Costs  Japanese utilities set aside part of their profits to cover
costs for decommissioning, which include packaging radioactive
waste for storage and dismantling the station. Kansai Electric
Power Co., the most nuclear-reliant of  Japan ’s utilities, in
2008 had 299 billion yen in reserve for decommissioning,
according  to its website .  Fourteen 30-year-old units in Japan need permits to run 10
more years, according to the  World Nuclear Association  data. Two
40-year old reactors also received decade-long extensions last
year. No reactor in the world has yet lasted 50 years.  “What we witnessed at Dai-Ichi was damage to an
installation that was built 40 years ago and designed 50 years
ago,” said Gennady Pshakin, a physicist based in Obninsk, the
site of  Russia ’s first nuclear power plant. More recent models
use better alloys and improved safety systems, he said.  Waning Support  Winning public support for extending reactor lives or
building new ones won’t be easy Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said on
July 22. Kan said in July Japan needs to reduce its reliance on
nuclear power after the Fukushima crisis, the second time in
four years an atomic plant has been damaged in a natural
disaster in the country.  The world experienced a boom in nuclear power before the
1979 Three Mile Island accident in the U.S. and the 1986
Chernobyl disaster in modern-day Ukraine halted the industry’s
expansion outside a few countries including China and  India .  Since Fukushima,  Germany ,  Italy  and Switzerland have
decided to abandon nuclear power.  The U.K. has the world’s oldest operating nuclear power
plant, according to the London-based World Nuclear Association.
India, Japan, Russia,  Switzerland  and the U.S. have the next
oldest stations, with 21 operating reactors in the world aged 40
years or more, according to WNA data.  Aging Units  “If we have confidence in the engineering and believe that
it’s OK to run plants for more than 40 years, then we will apply
for renewal,” Kansai Electric Power Co. President Makoto Yagi
said earlier this month.  Still, he said that after 30 years of operation, reactors
are “pretty old.” Yagi was speaking at a briefing at the
company’s  Mihama nuclear station  to mark the anniversary of the
death of five workers in an accident in 2004.  Of Japan’s nine operating reactors that will be 39 years or
older in 2016, five are owned by  Kansai Electric . The No. 1 unit
at Mihama received an extension in November and will work at
most for 50 years, Yagi said. Kansai Electric applied to extend
the life of Mihama’s No. 2 unit last month, he said.  Extensions are based on the assumption that plants will run
for 60 years, Tomohiro Sawada, assistant director of the nuclear
power division at Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency,
said. Assessments usually take between six months and a year,
Sawada said.  Other companies that need to apply for license extensions
by the middle of 2016 are Tokyo Electric Power Co., the operator
of Fukushima Dai-Ichi, Chugoku Electric Power Co., Kyushu
Electric Power Co., Shikoku Electric Power Co. and Tohoku
Electric Power Co., which shut all its reactors after the
disaster.  Extending Permits  So-called stress tests being carried out on reactors will
also consider “aging problems,” Trade and Industry Minister
 Banri Kaieda  said on Aug. 5. Units that fail the tests must be
decommissioned, he said.  The U.S., which has the most nuclear reactors, licensed its
plants to run for 40 years and has extended the lifespan of the
majority for a further 20 years.  The original license period was based on economics and
“not on limitations of nuclear technology,” according to the
 NRC website . Today, 70 of the 104 U.S. reactors have 60-year
permits and 13 more applications are under review, the NRC  said .  Upgrades come at a cost that make no sense when new nuclear
plants are more efficient and have greater safety features, said
Kyushu University’s Idemitsu. Opposition to building new nuclear
reactors may leave the utilities with no choice, he said.  “As public opposition to new reactors grows utilities will
favor keeping old units,” Idemitsu said. “That’s not good.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  