-- 
Ahold Second-Quarter Profit Falls on U.S. Woes

-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-08-25T09:31:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/ahold-second-quarter-profit-falls-on-u-s-woes.html
Royal Ahold NV, the Dutch owner of
Stop & Shop grocery stores, reported an unexpected drop in
second-quarter profit because of increased U.S. competition.  Net income declined to 199 million euros ($287 million)
from 202 million euros a year earlier, the Amsterdam-based
company  said  today. Profit was expected to rise to 217 million
euros, according to the average of eight analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The shares fell as much as 4 percent.  The underlying retail operating margin in the U.S., where
Ahold had a $24 million cost mainly for reorganizing logistics,
narrowed to 4.1 percent of sales in the quarter from 4.8 percent
a year earlier. The business climate is characterized by
increasing inflation and “intense promotional activity,”
especially in the U.S., the company said.  “Operational performance was a bit worse than we expected
across the board,” and Ahold company wasn’t able to fully pass
on the higher input costs,  Richard Withagen , an Amsterdam-based
analyst at SNS Securities, said in a phone interview.  Ahold slid as much as 36 cents to 7.99 euros in Amsterdam
trading and was at 8 euros as of 11:04 a.m. local time. The
shares have fallen 19 percent this year, giving the company a
market value of 9.3 billion euros. U.S. rival  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  has
fallen 29 percent in the same period.  Buyback Program  Due to current capital-market conditions, Ahold said it
decided to speed up its 1 billion-euro buyback program and
complete it by March 2012. The company had said in March of this
year that the program would take 18 months.  Ahold, whose Giant-Carlisle chain in the U.S. competes with
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , is seeking to perform “a balancing act”
by limiting price increases for customers while “working
rigorously on cost savings,” Chief Executive Officer  Dick Boer 
said on a conference call.  Second-quarter sales declined 3.5 percent to 6.9 billion
euros. Ahold still performed better than its peers “as the
company claims it grew market share in the U.S. and the
Netherlands,”  Christopher Hogbin , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein Ltd. in  London , said by phone.  Sales were also hurt by currency shifts and a change in the
timing of the Easter holiday, Ahold said. The dollar fell 16
percent against the euro in the 12 months through June. Easter
took place in late April this year and in early April in 2010.  The company’s outlets include Albert Heijn supermarkets and
Etos drugstores in the Netherlands.  Ahold is looking for ways to expand in adjacent markets and
opened a store in  Belgium  this year. A second outlet will be
added in the country in the fourth quarter, Boer said.  In the second half of next year, Ahold plans to introduce
its Albert Heijn To Go format in  Germany . The retailer will open
shops in cities like Dusseldorf and Cologne, Boer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  