-- 
Maine’s ‘Rockefeller Country’ Home Values Make the Rich Richer

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 
2011-08-25T04:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/maine-s-rockefeller-country-home-values-make-the-rich-richer.html
The Rockefellers, the Morgans and
the Astors, the most powerful Gilded Age families, knew how to
pick real estate. The worth of the properties they once owned on
 Mount Desert Island  in  Maine  has soared during the national real
estate bust.  Americans watched their home values tumble an average of 29
percent from the start of the real estate collapse in 2006,
according to the  Federal Reserve . Mount Desert estates owned by
the descendants of oil and industrial barons gained by almost
the same amount, according to local records.  While the recession erased more than 8 million jobs and
brought the home-construction industry to a grinding halt,
billionaire Mitchell Rales bought a $5.5 million estate and tore
it down to build a $25 million mansion on Mount Desert in Maine,
the U.S. state with the highest proportion of vacation homes,
according to new figures from the 2010  U.S. census .  “The upper end has survived the crash better than most,”
said Gary Fountain, a broker at Mount Desert Island Real Estate
in Bar Harbor. “There are still plenty of Learjets parked at
the Bar Harbor airport every weekend.”  The rest of Maine isn’t used to summer residents arriving
on private planes. Packed minivans filled with families from
nearby states is more the norm. As a whole, the value of Maine’s
real estate has fallen 12 percent since 2006. There’s no
separate gauge of the vacation-home market in the state. In the
same period,  New York ’s home values dropped 15 percent.  Beating Southampton  The gain in the value of real estate in Mount Desert, a
town with the same name as the island, outpaced even the 14
percent rise in Southampton, the priciest of the villages on the
eastern tip of New York’s  Long Island  where Hollywood starlets
and Wall Street bankers spend their summers. The roster of
Hamptons summer residents includes  Lloyd Blankfein , the chief
executive officer of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , and Hollywood
producer  Steven Spielberg .  Purchases of luxury homes in both communities are often
made with cash, according to brokers.  “Even if the very rich lose money in the stock market,
they still have enough left over to buy a luxury vacation home
and, really, do whatever else they want,” according to  Jonathan Miller , the president of Miller Samuel Inc., a residential
appraisal company based in Manhattan.  Stern, Spielberg  Most of the glitterati who flock to the Hamptons in the
summer months are newly rich, said Miller. That includes  Howard Stern , the radio talk-show host, and actor  Jerry Seinfeld .
Taking part in the annual summer exodus from  Manhattan , either
by roads jammed with other refugees or, for the wealthiest, via
helicopter, is considered a status symbol by investment bankers
and CEOs, he said.  In the town of Mount Desert, many summer residents earned
their money the old-fashioned way -- they inherited it. The
great-great-grandchildren of the Rockefeller dynasty tend to
spend summer days sailing on the Gulf of Maine or hiking in
nearby Acadia National Park, where John Rockefeller Jr., the son
of the Standard Oil founder, built a network of carriage roads
almost a century ago so he could ride his horse without being
annoyed by newfangled automobiles.  Exclusive Ticket  In the Hamptons, planning and attending charity fundraisers
is the main summer sport. One of the most exclusive tickets is
the VIP tent for the final day of the  Hampton Classic Horse Show 
on Labor Day weekend, where ladies wear elaborate hats and
waiters dress in white coats.  Mount Desert summer residents reserve that weekend for the
Labor Day Series, an annual sailboat race sponsored by the
Northeast Harbor Fleet, the yacht club where the younger David Rockefeller Jr. and Armour Mellon, whose family founded Mellon
Bank, keep their boats. At the awards ceremony, the dress code
is fleece and boat shoes.  “You couldn’t get more different than the Hamptons and Bar
Harbor, but what the two real estate markets have in common is
that disconnect with other segments of the housing market,”
Miller said.  The assets of Americans who own at least $1 million, in a
tally that excludes real estate, grew 8.4 percent in 2010,
according to the Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management and
Capgemini  World Wealth Report  in June. In the same period, U.S.
personal per capita income rose just 2.8 percent to $39,901,
according to the Census Bureau.  Lone Survivor  David Rockefeller Sr., 96, the only surviving grandchild of
oil tycoon  John D. Rockefeller , owns more than a dozen
properties in Mount Desert with a combined value of more than
$37 million, including most of Bartlett Island off Mount
Desert’s west coast, according to assessment records. Sascha
Rockefeller, the granddaughter of former U.S. Vice President
Nelson Rockefeller, owns a $1.7 million home, and Abby
Rockefeller, the great-granddaughter of the founder of Standard
Oil, has a $1.1 million estate.  In all, there are more than a dozen Rockefellers with
property along the southern coast of the island.  “Mount Desert is quiet money, discreet wealth,” said Brad
Emerson, a historian and antique shop owner in nearby Blue Hill,
Maine. “From the time the Rockefellers and the Vanderbilts and
the Mellons and the Astors first started coming to the island,
until today, it was considered bad taste to flaunt your money.”  Angering the Locals  Those days may be coming to an end. Rales, who bought the
$5.5 million tear-down, used architects  Gwathmey Siegel &
Associates  to design his new home in the futuristic style they
used for houses in the Hamptons. Construction was finished in
April, according to Kyle Avila, the Mount Desert assessor.  The destruction of the century-old Victorian mansion, and
the style of the home that replaced it, raised the ire of many
of the town’s residents, said Emerson, the historian.  “This isn’t like the Hamptons, with flashy new houses,”
he said. “This is Rockefeller country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in  Boston  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net . 