-- 
Irene Flight Cancellations Near 7,000 as United Joins Delta

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-08-26T23:35:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/airlines-cancel-180-flights-as-hurricane-irene-approaches-u-s-east-coast-.html
U.S. flight cancellations approached
7,000 as  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  joined  Delta Air Lines
Inc. (DAL)  and  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  in grounding planes ahead of
Hurricane Irene’s East Coast landfall.  United purged 2,300 flights through Aug. 28, while Delta
scratched 1,300 through Aug. 29 and JetBlue scrapped 1,262,
spokesmen said. United has a hub at  New Jersey ’s Newark Liberty
airport and Delta and JetBlue have bases at  New York ’s Kennedy,
which will halt international arrivals at noon tomorrow.  Irene is forecast to plow through the busiest airspace in
the U.S., forcing cancellations at seven major airports in
 Washington , Philadelphia, New York and  Boston . New York City’s
trains, buses and subways will be closed at noon tomorrow,
further slowing ground travel for passengers and airline crew.  “I expect this will be a major disruption,” said  David Swierenga , a former chief economist at the Air Transport
Association trade group who now runs consultant AeroEcon in
 Round Rock ,  Texas . “You’re affecting all the major airports on
the northeastern seaboard. The number of flights that they have
at those airports per day is very high.”  United’s schedule reductions include flights for both
United and Continental and their regional partners, said Mike
Trevino, a spokesman. United, the world’s largest carrier, will
cease operations tomorrow at all three New York airports and
resume the morning of Aug. 29.  Delta’s cancellations include its entire New York City-area
schedule on Aug. 28, said  Anthony Black , a spokesman.  JetBlue, which has its biggest hub at New York’s John F.
Kennedy airport, will scrap more than 75 percent of its Aug. 28
trips and more than half of its Aug. 29 schedule.  Washington, Norfolk  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  said it will cancel 1,166 flights
over the next two days, many at Washington-area airports,
spokesman Andrew Christie said. American will suspend service at
Washington airports for about 24 hours starting at noon tomorrow
as 265 flights are erased, said Tim Smith, a spokesman.  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) ’s AirTran unit is cutting 265
flights, while Southwest trims 400, spokeswomen said.  The industry’s preparations will include relocating planes
out of harm’s way, a step that minimizes damage while adding to
the complexity of resuming normal schedules after a storm.  “They’ll be doing a lot of scattering and scrambling,”
said Robert W. Mann, a former American Airlines executive who
owns consultant R.W. Mann & Co. in Port Washington, New York.
“That usually means flying the last trip out before the arrival
of the storm and not flying in until airfield conditions are
able to support it.”  Loss Estimates  The storm may cause $6.5 billion in overall economic
losses, according to estimates by Kinetic Analysis Corp. A more
easterly track and less intensity puts the company’s projected
insured losses $3.1 billion.  The last storm of this magnitude to menace the Northeast
was 1985’s Hurricane Gloria, which killed 11 people and caused
$900 million in damage. Irene is on a similar track, potentially
affecting all six of the largest U.S. airlines, a group led by
United, Delta and  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American.  Kennedy, Newark and New York’s LaGuardia form the busiest
U.S. aviation market with almost 104 million passengers last
year, according to Airports Council International.  Northeast Hubs  Sandwiching that airspace is Philadelphia, where US Airways
has a hub and Dallas-based Southwest is the second-biggest
operator; Washington, home to Chicago-based United’s hub at
Dulles airport and a US Airways base at Ronald Reagan National;
and Boston, where JetBlue is the largest tenant.  Delays in the area can ripple across the entire U.S. air-
traffic control system.  Since Gloria, airlines also have expanded overseas service
in New York, so Irene may affect trans-Atlantic routes as well.
American and joint-venture partner British Airways began hourly
London departures from Kennedy each evening this year.  Irene’s approach spurred carriers to begin letting fliers
reschedule trips without penalty to and from storm-affected
cities, and U.S. airlines canceled about 180 flights yesterday.
The tally mounted this week as Irene moved through the Caribbean
and the Bahamas.  Dropping fees for changing reservations helps airlines by
getting passengers rebooked before any weather disruptions.
Carriers typically wait to scrap flights until several hours or
a day before storms such as hurricanes or blizzards.  Hub Concentration  The Northeast’s concentration of airport hubs makes Irene a
bigger threat for cancellations than a storm striking the
southeast U.S. or states adjoining the  Gulf of Mexico , where
hurricanes are common.  Those regions have only two hubs near the coast,
Continental’s in Houston and American’s in Miami.  New Orleans ,
which was ravaged by  Hurricane Katrina  in 2005, was only the
47th-busiest U.S. airport last year.  Winds and rain may not be airlines’ only challenge from
Irene. Lack of ground transportation and power failures also may
keep airline employees and passengers from getting to airports
once the worst of the storm passes, said Mann, the consultant.  Aircraft also are flying with record numbers of full seats,
especially at the end of the U.S. summer vacation season, making
it difficult for passengers on grounded flights to find new
seats after the storm moves through.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  