-- 
Amec Sees More Acquisitions, Higher Dividends on Earnings

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-08-25T15:39:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/amec-sees-more-acquisitions-higher-dividends-on-earnings-1-.html
Amec Plc (AMEC) , the U.K.-based oil and gas
engineer, said it will continue to make acquisitions and
increase payouts to shareholders as earnings rise.  Adjusted profit before tax in the first half rose 9 percent
to 126 million pounds ($206 million) from 116 million pounds a
year earlier, the company said in a statement in London today.
Amec increased the dividend 40 percent after making 261 million
pounds of acquisitions in this year.  Amec said its order backlog is similar to a year ago at
about 3.4 billion pounds and it will be able to maintain margins
at about 9 percent for the year. Shares have declined about 17
percent since July on concern that a slowdown in global economic
growth may curb  oil prices .  “We see demand for our services remaining strong,” Chief
Executive Officer Samir Brikho told journalists on a conference
call. “We still see a lot of opportunities out there.”  Chief Financial Officer Ian McHoul said Amec plans to
increase the dividend in line or “a little ahead” of earnings
growth. The company “sees opportunities” to maintain the pace
of investment and acquisitions, he said.  Amec plans to return to  Libya  “as soon as the dust
settles,” Brikho said. The company evacuated most of its 230
employees in Libya earlier this year after civil war broke out.
The North African country is a “great opportunity,” he said.  Total profit fell to 79 million pounds from 89 million
pounds in the first half of last year after a 22 million-pound
tax charge, Amec reported.  Shares fell 4.3 percent to 876 pence as of the 4:30 p.m.
market close in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  