-- 
Tamiflu-Resistant Flu Outbreak Reported in Australia’s Newcastle, WHO Says

-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 
2011-08-26T01:25:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/tamiflu-resistant-flu-outbreak-reported-in-australia-s-newcastle-who-says.html
More than two dozen cases of H1N1
swine flu resistant to  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Tamiflu pill were
reported in  Australia  in the largest outbreak of the drug-
evading influenza strain.  Viruses from 25 of 184 patients in the Newcastle area of
eastern Australia infected with the pandemic germ had a genetic
mutation that reduces the potency of Tamiflu, scientists said in
a  report  distributed today by the International Society for
Infectious Diseases’ ProMED-mail program.  The cases, first reported in May, raise concern that the
resistant strain may spread, leaving doctors without their
preferred treatment for influenza.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Relenza
drug is effective against the mutant strain, which is still
found in the Newcastle area, according to the  World Health
Organization ’s Collaborating Centre for Influenza in  Melbourne .  “As long as it’s isolated to Newcastle and that region,
it’s not so much of a problem,” said Ian Barr, the center’s
deputy director, in a telephone interview today. “If it spreads
further, it might be a concern. Fortunately, we’re heading
toward the end of our flu season.”  The cluster of cases with the mutant virus is the largest
reported outbreak globally to date, and shows the new variant is
capable of being transmitted efficiently in the absence of drug
pressure, said Jennifer McKimm-Breschkin, a virologist at the
Commonwealth Science and Industrial Research Organization in
Melbourne, who studies antiviral resistance.  ‘Fit and Transmissible’  “It’s clearly fit and transmissible,” she said in a
telephone interview today. “It would be concerning having seen
such a large cluster like that.”  None of those infected had taken Tamiflu prior to being
tested for flu. Of 16 patients interviewed by the scientists,
none had a history of immune suppression, which contributes to
drug resistance. None of the patients was admitted to an
intensive care unit or died from the infection, the report said.  Further interviews with cases and virological analyses are
ongoing, the scientists said.  The H1N1 virus that emerged in 2009 known as swine flu was
reported in more than 214 countries and caused about 18,450
deaths worldwide through August 2010, when the WHO declared an
end to the pandemic. It’s since become one of three seasonal flu
strains circulating worldwide, causing infections mostly during
the winter months.  Sporadic Resistance  Studies have shown that Tamiflu-resistant bugs develop
sporadically in 0.4 percent to 4 percent of adults and children
treated for seasonal influenza, according to Basel, Switzerland-
based Roche.  The outbreak of resistant H1N1 in Newcastle probably
emerged in a treated patient who passed the infection onto
others, McKimm-Breschkin said.  Ten to 15 percent of H1N1 infections in the Hunter Valley
area of New South Wales state, which includes Newcastle, are
resistant to Tamiflu, WHO’s Barr said. The seasonal  flu vaccine 
protects against the new flu variant, as well as influenza type
B, the main strain circulating in the Newcastle area, he said.  Tamiflu and Relenza, an inhaled powder, reduce the severity
and the duration of flu symptoms by 24 to 30 hours if treatment
is started within the first two days of illness, according to
the companies. Both drugs work by blocking a protein on the
surface of influenza particles called  neuraminidase , which
allows the virus to spread from infected cells to other cells.  Mutant H1N1 viruses evade Tamiflu through a single genetic
change known as the H275Y mutation which prevents the medicine
from clinging to neuraminidase, enabling the pathogen to spread.  An outbreak of cases of seasonal flu with the H275Y
mutation was first recorded by  Norway  in January 2008 and by the
following August widespread resistance was reported in 40
countries in  Europe , North and  South America ,  Africa ,  Asia  and
Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Singapore at   j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  