-- 
An Englishman’s Home Is His Flat-Packed Delivery From Germany

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-08-25T23:25:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/an-englishman-s-home-is-his-flat-packed-delivery-from-a-factory-in-germany.html
Paul Crook’s new home in  London ’s
commuter belt arrived on a truck from Germany, took eight days
to assemble and cost 1.4 million euros ($2 million).  Disillusioned with the British  property market  and local
builders, the 53-year-old International Business Machines Corp.
executive and his wife ordered the four-bedroom house from  Huf
Haus GmbH , a company based about 60 miles northwest of
 Frankfurt . They moved in last month.  The standard of construction was “pretty awful on brand
new houses on premium sites in the southeast of  England ,” Crook
said by telephone. “So although they’re asking for a premium
price, you’re not getting corresponding quality.”  Factory-made houses, popular for decades among Germans and
Americans, are becoming more prevalent in the U.K. as homebuyers
and developers try to avoid turbulence in the real-estate
market. Sellers in London lowered asking prices by the most in a
year in August as demand in Britain’s most expensive city was
hit by turmoil in financial markets.  Loans to buyers of pre-made homes will more than double to
3.4 billion pounds ($5.5 billion) by 2014, according to London-
based researcher Datamonitor Plc. The rest of the mortgage
market will likely grow by less than 25 percent, the firm said.  Unite Group Plc (UTG) , the U.K.’s largest provider of student
accommodation, said flat-packed units are helping to protect
revenue from building delays. If the company hasn’t built its
rooms in time for the academic year in September, it’s risking a
year’s worth of sales, or 193.4 million pounds in 2010.  No Mistakes  “The quality is higher and the cost is lower because
you’re not making mistakes that you have to go back and
correct,” Richard Simpson, development director at Unite, based
in Bristol, southwest England, said by telephone.  The U.K. government, facing a housing shortage of 1 million
by 2015, is encouraging Britons to build their own homes by
freeing up more land, persuading banks to offer more financial
products and easing planning restrictions.  About 14,500 homes will be self-built this year, according
to forecasts by the  National Self Build Association . That
compares with 13,600 in 2010, based on figures from H.M. Revenue
and Excise, which refunds self-builders’ value added tax for
their material costs.  Around one in every 10 new homes in the U.K. are self
built, the association said. That’s compared with about 28
percent in the U.S. with an average price of $243,600, according
to census data for 2010.  Mobile Homes  The U.S. prefabricated housing market comprises mainly of
two types of buildings: modular homes and manufactured ones.  The first are built in sections that are transported to the
site by truck, while the second -- formerly known as mobile
homes or trailers -- are built on a fixed steel chassis and
transported on their own wheels.  Tim Virdee bought his English property in 2006 from Huf
Haus, whose products range from town houses and apartment
buildings to retirement homes and office blocks. The 47-year-old
sales and marketing consultant flew to Germany to pick out
exactly what he wanted for his new 1 million-pound home.  “We knew the house would be built exactly to budget,”
Virdee, 47, said of his glass-and-timber property about 45 miles
south of London. “Talk to anyone who’s constructed their own
home and they’ll tell you horror stories.”  Persimmon’s Prefabs  U.K. homebuilders like  Persimmon Plc (PSN) , a company that sells
properties for an average of 163,000 pounds, also are
increasingly using pre-manufactured elements in their homes.  Around a quarter of the 9,384 homes Persimmon sold last
year were built using its Space4 Ltd. timber-framed factory-
built panels. That compares with about 20 percent in 2009.  “The timber frame unit will be erected inside a day and
the whole build takes about six to eight weeks,” Space4
managing director Chris Hagan said in a telephone interview. “A
traditional Persimmon build takes around 12 to 14 weeks.”  Huf Haus is a 100-year-old family-owned company based in
the state of Rhineland-Palatinate. It was selling two or three
homes in the U.K. in 1998. That’s up to about 25 a year now, or
14 percent of the 200 glass and timber houses are produced every
year at the company’s factory in the village of Hartenfels.  Clients meet with an architect and together they design
every inch of the new house, at a cost of about around 250
pounds a square foot. The buyer chooses where the bedrooms are,
how much sunlight enters the house and the color of the roof.  ‘Watertight’  The buildings take about a week to become “watertight”
company architect Peter Huf said. About two months later the
house is habitable with running water and heating.  “How many houses are built by the client?” Huf said in an
interview at the company’s U.K. show-home in Cobham, Surrey.
“The developer doesn’t think about the garden, doesn’t think
about the sun or where people will sit.”  The company manufactures all of its houses in Hartenfels,
including those for  buyers in the U.S ., where homes are
delivered by container ship and Huf’s builders are flown in from
 Germany . Prices start from $1.2 million, or $450 to $650 per
square foot.  Crook, Huf Haus’s client near London, has no regrets after
turning his back on the market for newly built houses in the
U.K. In addition to the cost of his pre-made home, he paid
700,000 pounds for the land in Oxted, Surrey.  “If we didn’t secure a house at a price we thought was
reasonable, we would go off and build our own,” Crook said.
“The house isn’t perfect, but it’s a hell of a lot more perfect
than anything else I’ve ever seen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 