-- 
Lance Armstrong Wants U.S. to Make Public Its Filing on Doping Probe Leaks

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-08-26T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/lance-armstrong-wants-u-s-to-make-public-its-filing-on-doping-probe-leaks.html
Lance Armstrong , the record seven-
time winner of the Tour de  France , is seeking to force the U.S.
to make public its filing in a case over alleged leaks to the
media involving an investigation of doping in cycling.  A lawyer for Armstrong said in a filing yesterday in
federal court in Los Angeles that the U.S. misstates the law in
arguing that it doesn’t have to file a public, redacted version
of its opposition to Armstrong’s request for a hearing on the
alleged leaks because of the need to protect a continuing grand
jury investigation.  “Arguments and analysis about whether or not to even
conduct such a hearing must be hashed out in the open,”
Armstrong’s lawyer, Elliot Peters, said in yesterday’s filing.  Armstrong last month asked for a hearing alleging that one
or more people “from the investigation’s inner circle”
repeatedly leaked information to the media, going back to May of
2010, about the grand jury investigation in  Los Angeles  related
to Armstrong.  The leaks have included the strategy and the direction of
the investigation as well as possible charges, according to the
July 13 request. Armstrong wants a judge to stop the illegal
leaks and to punish those responsible, according to the request.  Under Seal  Federal prosecutors filed their response under seal on Aug.
22, according to a filing the following day by Armstrong’s
lawyer, asking for the court to order that the government file a
public, redacted response. On Aug. 24, prosecutors filed their
opposition to this request again under seal, according to
yesterday’s filing by Armstrong’s lawyer.  Thom Mrozek, a spokesman for the U.S. attorney’s office in
Los Angeles, declined to comment on yesterday’s filing.  Mark
Fabiani , a spokesman for Armstrong, declined to comment beyond
what was in yesterday’s filing.  In the July 13 request, Armstrong’s lawyer said the pattern
of leaks was “eerily reminiscent” of the government
investigation of performance-enhancement drugs in  Major League
Baseball . Both investigations were conducted by the same lead
investigator, agent  Jeff Novitzky , and the leaks were made to
some of the same reporters in both investigations, according to
the July 13 request.  Armstrong, 39, won the  Tour de France , the sport’s most
prestigious event, each year from 1999 to 2005 after surviving
testicular cancer that had spread to his brain and lungs. The
Texas-native has never failed a doping test and has denied using
banned performance-enhancing drugs.  The case is In re grand jury leaks, 11-00174, U.S. District
Court, Central District of  California  (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  