-- 
Manchester United May Rely on Support From Fans in Asia for Singapore IPO

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-08-25T16:02:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/manchester-united-may-rely-on-asian-fan-support-in-singapore-share-sale.html
Manchester United  may rely on Asian
fans buying shares with their hearts, rather than their heads,
as the 19-time English soccer champion plans a $1 billion
initial public offering in Singapore.  Analysts and fans say the sale of as much as 30 percent of
the club may tempt retail investors with affection for United as
opposed to institutions. The U.S.-based Glazers bought United
for 790 million pounds ($1.3 billion) in 2005. The proposed IPO
implies a value of more than $3 billion. The owners will use the
proceeds to cut debt and invest in players, said two people with
knowledge of the decision. The club hasn’t confirmed the plan.  “I would be more inclined towards investing in the club,
even if valuations are slightly on the high side, because of my
emotional connection with it,” said David Hu, a 25-year-old
financial analyst based in  Singapore  and a United fan since he
was 10. “It’s exciting to own a material interest in a team
you’ve supported for so long.”  The team, which will gauge investor demand as soon as next
month, decided to list in  Asia  because of its fanbase there,
according to the people familiar with the discussions. United
spokesman Philip Townsend declined to comment on that.  United  says it has more supporters than any soccer team,
with 190 million of the estimated 330 million “Reds” living in
Asia. The team’s popularity has climbed with the increase in
global demand for Premier League soccer, which is now televised
in 211 territories.  Ronaldo Sale  The Glazers have doubled revenue to about 300 million
pounds since a debt-funded takeover that made them unpopular
with many fans. Interest costs from the acquisition meant the
team was profitable only once in the past five years, thanks to
the record 80 million-pound sale of Cristiano Ronaldo to Real
 Madrid  in 2009.  In an IPO, “my sense is the investor base is going to be
less institutional,” said Philip Hall, a partner at New York-
based Inner Circle Sports, who advised on the takeovers of
Liverpool and Sunderland. “It’s more likely people will invest
from a retail perspective so they can say ‘I own 200 shares of
Manchester United.’ It’s like buying the ultimate piece of
merchandise.”  United announced a four-year deal on Aug. 22 that allows
delivery company DHL to put its name on training wear. The
contract is worth about 40 million pounds, said two people with
knowledge of the negotiations. Malaysian snack Mister Potato and
Vietnam telecommunications company Beeline also joined as
sponsors this week.  The DHL deal is bigger than principal jersey contracts held
by most in the 20-team league. Only Liverpool, Chelsea,
Tottenham and  Manchester City  make more. Insurer  Aon Corp. (AON)  pays
about 80 million pounds to advertise on United’s shirt.  Value Differentials  Stephen Schechter, chief executive officer of Schechter &
Co., an adviser to other teams that sold shares to the public,
places the value of United at closer to $2 billion. Forbes
magazine said it’s worth $1.86 billion.  The figures quoted for the IPO are too high “because of
the massive debt burden, the massive payroll, and the need to
replace certain aging players” Schechter said. United’s second-
youngest starting 11 in Premier League history helped the team
beat Tottenham 3-0 on Aug. 22.  United first toured Asia four decades ago and plans to go
again next year. When the club last made the trip, the players
were mobbed by supporters wearing replica shirts bearing names
of stars like  Wayne Rooney  and  Ryan Giggs .  Barcelona to Chelsea  “Manchester United has got the heritage and also the
current form on the field,” said brand consultant Nigel Currie.
“Asian fan-bases are quite changeable in terms of their support
habits. Manchester United has maintained their success.”  European champion Barcelona and Real Madrid also are
popular in Asia, while Liverpool and Chelsea attracted thousands
to matches. That prompted Felomina Devaraj Rulloda, who owns
licensing rights to a United-themed restaurant in Singapore, to
change the name to Charlie’s Tapas Grill & Bar from Manchester
United Cafe because it was deterring fans of other clubs.  The Glazers borrowed about 500 million pounds against
United’s assets to buy the club. Raising $1 billion in a share
sale would be “one of the most incredible pieces of financial
engineering in the history of sports,” said Stefan Szymanski, a
professor of sports business at Cass Business School in  London .  Tony Fernandes , chief executive officer of AirAsia Bhd.,
who last week bought control of London’s Queens Park Rangers,
said there’s a big appetite for Premier League soccer.  “It’s a very smart move if done correctly,” he said in an
interview. “Singapore’s got lots of capital and Man. U. is a
very strong brand in  Southeast Asia .”  The history of soccer listings is littered with setbacks.
Former Premier League teams such as Leeds United went on to have
spells in  bankruptcy protection . German champion  Borussia
Dortmund  is trading at about 2.4 euros a share, having been
first sold at 11 euros in October 2000.  “Buyer beware,” Schechter said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  