-- 
Mango Windows Phones Give Nokia Apps to Strike Back at Apple

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-08-26T09:16:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/mango-windows-phones-give-nokia-recipe-to-strike-back-at-apple.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , which missed out twice on
the love-in between smartphone users and their applications, may
have a chance with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone 7 to attract
writers of the next “ Shazam ” or “Angry Birds” blockbuster.  Third-party applications helped make  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone
the most profitable smartphone as users flocked to a handset
with a slick touchscreen and an online store that has grown to
more than 425,000 games and other programs.  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android system, supported by dozens of manufacturers, also lured
developers and became the  best-selling  smartphone system in the
first quarter, soaring past Nokia’s Symbian software.  Nokia is seeking to regain momentum by offering smartphones
with Windows Phone 7, which will run about 30,000 applications,
plus more that are being prepared before its handset release
next quarter. Nokia is retiring Symbian, which frustrated app
suppliers with its shifting versions and writing tools.
Developers say the switch to Windows gives the Espoo, Finland-
based company a greater chance of success.  “Nokia has had a hard time attracting enough committed
developers and this is a chance to win them back,” said Jani
Nevalainen, a manager at software developer  Symbio , which works
for clients including Nokia and Microsoft and has offices in
Cupertino, California, Beijing and Tampere,  Finland . “Many
things that were time-consuming on their earlier phones are a
walk in the park on Windows Phone.”  Nokia declined 0.5 percent to 4.09 euros as of 12:12 p.m.
in Helsinki trading.  In Finnish, Too  The stock has lost almost half of its value since Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Elop announced the partnership with
Microsoft in February, as investors worried about further market
share and revenue erosion before shipments of Windows Phones.  Microsoft announced Windows Phone in February 2010,
jettisoning an earlier system called Windows Mobile. A new
version codenamed “Mango,”  announced  in May, adds face
detection in photos, extended voice recognition for writing, and
support for 15 additional European and Asian languages,
including Finnish.  Mango also lets users synchronize Microsoft Office
documents with cloud versions in Microsoft’s Office 365 and
SkyDrive, and improves integration with corporate directories
and e-mail systems.  Microsoft’s Windows Phone Marketplace began accepting
applications that use the Mango features this week and will
start publishing them within days, Casey McGee, senior marketing
manager for Windows Phone, said in an interview. “It’s a
question of how we go about creating the right games, the right
applications and some new and unique titles,” McGee said.  ‘Game Changer’  Important categories include social networking, games,
reference and search, he said. Users typically have between 10
and 50 applications on their handsets, he said.  “People are waiting for Nokia because the other
manufacturers haven’t launched it in very big quantities” said
Nevalainen, referring to the Windows Phone. “Nokia is the big
game changer here.”  Polar Mobile , a Toronto-based maker of media apps including
software for publications Wired UK and the Toronto Globe and
Mail, already has 300 apps for Windows Phone and intends to
upgrade them to Mango, CEO Kunal Gupta said in an interview.  Offscreen Technologies in Helsinki has already released
solitaire and backgammon games for Windows Phone 7.  “App publishers we’re working with seem to be much more
enthusiastic about Windows Phone 7 than Symbian,” said CEO
Harri Myllynen. “Still, Apple and Android are number one and
this will be a long-tail platform. I’m not aware of any
developer investing in a big way yet.”  Jobs Resignation  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs , who transformed
the business he started at age 21 into the world’s largest
technology company, announced his resignation Aug. 24. Jobs, who
will become chairman, was on medical leave after combating a
rare form of cancer and is succeeded by Chief Operating Officer
 Tim Cook , who has been running day-to-day operations.  What Windows Phone lacks, developers say, is market share
and proof that consumers who like the feature-packed handsets
will spend money on extra applications.  Microsoft’s share in smartphones, including some units on
Windows Mobile, was 1.6 percent in the second quarter, according
to researcher Gartner Inc. That put it behind Android, Symbian,
iPhone,  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerry, and Samsung
Electronics Co.’s Bada. Nokia’s smartphone market share
plummeted to 20.9 percent from 37.4 percent a year earlier,
according to Gartner.  Symbian Belle  “We were pleasantly surprised by Windows Phone 7,” said
Tom Hume, whose Brighton, U.K. company Future Platforms produced
the WP7 version of “Touchnote,” which sends mobile-phone
snapshots as printed postcards. “Symbian was like a 20-year-old
operating system that had 20 years of accumulated cruft,” a
term for outdated software or hardware.  Nokia has used Symbian, which is descended from software
used on Psion Plc personal digital assistants in the 1990s, as
its flagship smartphone operating system for the past decade.
Nokia this week unveiled three models running “Symbian Belle”
starting at 180 euros ($259). Nokia will continue updating the
Symbian system through 2012 and support will continue to 2016,
Colin Giles, Nokia’s global sales chief, said in an interview.  Sports Tracking Technologies Oy, a 20-person Nokia spinoff
whose “Sports Tracker” app records users’ runs and other
workouts, is considering whether to support Windows Phone, CEO
Jussi Kaasinen said. His app, which accesses global-positioning-
system and map data, needs more work to build and maintain than
others that just pipe content from the Web, he said.  ‘Cut the Rope’  Square Inc., which makes a U.S.-based credit-card payment
system for Apple’s iOS and Android devices, doesn’t plan to add
other platforms, spokeswoman Katie Baynes said. Fring, an
Israeli company that supplies Internet calling and chatting
applications, is following Windows Phone but hasn’t developed a
product, spokeswoman Nadia Hitman said.  Zeptolab , the Moscow-based maker of the game “Cut the
Rope,” will focus on iOS and Android. “As a relatively small
studio, we have to keep the priorities tough for anything we
do,” said Chief Creative Officer Semyon Voinov. “The situation
might change if we got more resources or WP7 got a bigger market
share.”  Clemens Grossman, CEO of  TouchingCode , a four-person
Berlin-based company whose iPhone and Android apps include the
“Kreuz und Quer” word puzzle and a poetry reader, also said
that while his company isn’t supporting Windows Phone, it might
if the market takes off.  ‘Third Ecosystem’  “Windows Phone has a good chance to become the third
ecosystem but the question is how far it will be from the two
leaders,” said Michael Vakulenko, research partner with London
mobile consultancy VisionMobile. “Any developer who decides to
invest in Windows Phone 7 needs to consider alternatives and
that’s always Android and iPhone.”  Nokia’s participation should help Windows phones improve
their cameras, audio quality and battery life, developers said.
The Finnish company may also add navigation, which is featured
on its other smartphones, and help more users pay for their apps
on their phone bills.  “People will take Windows Phone 7 as the third one to go
for but I don’t think it’s going to stop many people from
building iPhone or Android apps,” said Hume of Future
Platforms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  