-- 
Angola Economic Growth to Jump to 8% in 2012 on Oil Boost, World Bank Says

-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-08-25T14:19:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/angolan-economic-growth-to-jump-to-8-in-2012-on-spending-world-bank-says.html
Economic growth in  Angola , sub-
Saharan African second-biggest oil producer, will probably
accelerate to 8 percent next year due to higher  oil prices  and
increased spending, World Bank economist Ricardo Gazel said.  The southern African nation’s economy may expand 5 percent
this year, Gazel said in a telephone interview yesterday from
Maputo,  Mozambique ’s capital. Gazel is the Washington-based
institution’s economist for Angola and Mozambique.  “The economic growth prospects for Angola are solid,” he
said.  A recovery in oil prices has boosted Angola’s economy after
a drop in 2009 depleted its foreign-currency reserves, leading
the government to cut spending and postpone repayment of $6.8
billion in arrears to construction companies that helped rebuild
infrastructure after the end of a civil war in 2002.  Brent crude 
has surged 18 percent this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Oil accounts for about 50 percent of Angola’s gross
domestic product, 80 percent of government revenue and more than
90 percent of exports earnings, according to Gazel.  “Today, Angola is in a completely different position and
is set to resume investments in the non-oil sector that will
further stimulate economic growth,” Gazel said. Lower oil
production due to maintenance work this year should be “more
than compensated” by higher oil prices, he said.  State spending will probably also increase ahead of
elections due in 2012, helping boost growth, excluding oil,
expanding by about 10 percent this year, Gazel said.  Budget Surplus   Standard & Poor’s  raised the country’s sovereign-debt
rating to BB- last month, three levels below the agency’s lowest
investment-grade rating, citing its improved state revenue and
current-account balance. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
have also upgraded their credit ratings for Angola this year.  Angola’s budget surplus will probably amount to about 8
percent of GDP this year while reserves have risen to more than
$20 billion, making it easier to repay remaining debt to
builders and reducing the need for a planned international bond,
Gazel said. Reserves declined at about $12 billion in 2010,
according to the country’s central bank.  “Angola has no need to issue a Eurobond as it has enough
funds to carry out the investments needed in the economy,” he
said.  Angola delayed issuing its first global bond, planned for
September, because it doesn’t have “difficulties in its
treasury,” Carlos Feijo, the country’s minister of state, said
July 27. The country plans to settle the outstanding debt of
$2.7 billion owed to builders within a year, according to Carlos
Alberto Lopes, the finance minister.  Angola’s economy will expand by more than 10 percent next
year after growing 3.4 percent in 2011, President Jose Eduardo dos Santos said July 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  