-- 
Apple Holders Get Conflicting Clues From Iconic CEOs

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-08-29T14:44:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/apple-s-shareholders-get-conflicting-clues-from-legacies-of-iconic-ceos.html
(Corrects location of Wedgewood Partners Inc. in 12th
paragraph of story published Aug. 25.)  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  investors looking at
history to gauge how shares may fare after the resignation of
Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  will find a mixed record at
companies whose iconic leaders left.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  surged 38 percent in the year after co-
founder  Bill Gates  stepped down as CEO in June 2006, and Walt
Disney Co. rose 28 percent in the 12 months following the
departure of  Michael Eisner  in September 2005, both beating the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  General Electric Co. (GE)  declined 16
percent in the year after Jeffrey Immelt was named as successor
to  Jack Welch .  “It’s really hard to find any parallels in history as
Steve Jobs’ impact on Apple is totally unique,” said John
Buckingham, chief investment officer at Aliso Viejo, California-
based Al Frank Asset Management Inc., where he oversees $500
million and has held the shares since 2002.  Under co-founder Jobs, Cupertino, California-based Apple
became the world’s second-most valuable company after  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and one of the best-known brands as he pushed
devices that revolutionized the mobile phone, personal computer
and music industries. His departure, like the loss of other
founders closely aligned with a company’s strategy, forces
investors to decide whether to keep their shares as Apple moves
ahead under new CEO Tim Cook.  Dell Inc. (DELL) , the Round Round, Texas-based computer maker,
slumped 27 percent between the time that founder  Michael Dell 
said he would resign as CEO in March 2004 and his return in
January 2007, as the computer maker struggled to fend off
competitors, including Apple. The S&P 500 Index rose about 25
percent in the same period.  Hedge Fund Holdings  Apple was the top stock holding among  hedge funds  that
disclosed their stakes in regulatory filings for the quarter
ended June 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
funds collectively added 2.1 million shares in the second
quarter to increase their holdings to 40.6 million, valued at
$13.6 billion.  GE, whose broad business makeup was looked at as a proxy
for the  U.S. economy , declined 1 percentage point more than the
15 percent drop in the S&P 500 Index in the year after Immelt
was named as successor to Welch, who had run the Fairfield,
Connecticut-based company since 1981 and was named manager of
the century by Fortune magazine in 1999. Welch retired on Sept.
7, 2001.  “I thought of Jack Welch when I heard the news,” Abhishek
Gami, a senior equity analyst at Atlanta-based  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) ,
said of Jobs’ departure. “It’s rare that you see great leaders
leave at the top of their game.”  Medical Leave  Apple was the largest position in the $5.6 billion Invesco
Van Kampen American Franchise Fund, a mutual fund whose managers
Gami advises, as of June 30 at 6.9 percent. Investors and
analysts who trusted Jobs to lead the company after the
successes of the iPhone and iPad may pressure Apple’s leadership
to be more open about its strategy and outlook, a positive for
the stock, Gami said.  Jobs, 56, who started Apple as a PC maker at the age of 21,
was on medical leave since Jan. 17 after combating a rare form
of cancer since 2003 and surviving a  liver transplant  in 2009.
Cook, as chief operating officer, has been running day-to-day
operations.  Apple shares, which have more than doubled in the past two
years, fell $1.36, or 0.4 percent, to $374.82 at 2:35 p.m. New
York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market, after declining as much as
3 percent.  “As far as surprise, there was really none,” David Rolfe,
chief investment officer at St. Louis-based Wedgewood Partners
Inc., said in an interview. “Cook has been running the trains
like nobody’s business,” said Rolfe, who manages $1.1 billion,
mostly for institutions and wealthy individuals.  ‘Unduly Cheap’  Apple accounts for slightly under the cap that Rolfe sets
for any holding at 10 percent of assets, he said. The shares are
“unduly cheap,” Rolfe said. He expects the company to earn $9
a share in the fourth quarter, or almost double the profit from
a year earlier.  Apple’s shares have soared more than 9,000 percent since
1997 when Jobs took over as CEO after returning to the company,
lifting its market capitalization to about $345.3 billion.  Profit more than doubled last quarter to $7.31 billion on
revenue of $28.6 billion. The company had record sales of
iPhones and iPads, products that didn’t exist five years ago and
now account for about two-thirds of revenue. Apple also has
accumulated $76.2 billion in cash and other holdings.  “Similar to the departure of Henry Ford,  Walt Disney  --
unique creative forces whose companies carried on for years --
Apple without Steve will go on,”  Mike Abramsky , an analyst at
 RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto who rates the stock
“outperform,” wrote today in a note to clients.  “However, it’s hard to believe Apple won’t be different,”
Abramsky said. “Steve was involved in every detail of product,
marketing, execution, deal-making.”  -- With assistance from Rachel Layne in Boston and Adam
Satariano and Peter Burrows in  San Francisco . Editors: Josh
Friedman, Larry Edelman  To contact the reporters on this story: Sree Vidya
Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at
   ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Edelman at 
 ledelman3@bloomberg.net  