-- 
Apple to Win German Ban on Samsung Tablet Sales, Judge Says

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-08-25T15:29:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/apple-s-samsung-tablet-ban-may-be-limited-to-germany-judge-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s intellectual property
rights are likely to be found strong enough to ban sales of
Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy 10.1 tablet computers in
 Germany , a judge said today.  The Dusseldorf court is unlikely though to expand the ban
on sales beyond Germany to other European Union countries as
Apple sought, Presiding Judge Johanna Brueckner-Hofmann said in
a preliminary assessment today. A ruling is scheduled for Sept.
9.  “In the court’s view, Apple has a case to keep” the
German ban, Brueckner-Hofmann said at the hearing today. “There
are a lot of alternative ways to design a tablet device, as the
market amply shows. We think Apple’s EU design rights grant a
medium range of protection, if not a broad one.”  The legal battle between Cupertino, California-based Apple
and rival device makers is intensifying as an increasing number
of consumers use smartphones to surf the Web, play games and
download music. Apple, the world’s top smartphone seller, has
filed patent cases against handset makers using Google Inc.’s
Android operating system, including Samsung, Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. and HTC Corp.  Strategy Analytics analyst  Neil Mawston  forecasts tablet
sales could reach about 2.4 million units in Germany this year,
up from 0.6 million in 2010, making it  Europe ’s third-largest
market after the U.K. and  France .  The Dusseldorf court on Aug. 9 granted Apple, the maker of
the iPad, a preliminary sales ban in 26 of the 27 EU member
countries, only to scale back its reach a week later over
jurisdictional doubts. The court today signaled that it would
back that approach in its verdict.  Samsung Unit  The court is likely to find that it doesn’t have
jurisdiction to issue a ban applicable outside Germany against a
company based outside the EU, Brueckner-Hofmann said. Samsung’s
German unit, for which the ban applies EU-wide, is independent
and doesn’t allow the court to assume jurisdiction for both
companies alike, she said.  Samsung lost an unrelated case involving Apple yesterday
before a Dutch court over sales of some smartphones there. The
court took a different view on tablets, saying Samsung didn’t
violate Apple’s rights to the tablet’s design.  “As the Dutch judge has rightly pointed out: Apple’s
design rights cannot force us to make technically poor
products,” said Henrik Timmann, Samsung’s lawyer, today. “Many
design features are just necessary to use if you want to produce
a tablet computer.”  Differs Enough  The screen needs to be flat to avoid crumbs that could
disturb usage, and corners need to be rounded so the screen
won’t break should the device hit something solid, the Samsung
lawyer said. The Galaxy’s back differs from the iPad enough to
distinguish it from Apple’s EU-protected products, said Timmann.  Apple’s attorney Matthias Koch said there were other
tablets before Apple introduced the iPad, which were thicker
with buttons on the sides. Those didn’t violate Apple’s rights
and Samsung offered similar tablets before, he added. Only Apple
came up with the idea for a “minimalistic” design, he said.  “We’re not sitting here because Apple wants to prohibit
all kind of tablets,” said Koch. “We’re here because Samsung’s
Galaxy tab is the closest copy of the iPad. There is no other
tablet that comes that close.”  Koch said the court should extend the ban to other EU
countries as well. Samsung’s German unit has strong enough ties
to its Korean parent to allow such a ruling under European
rules, he said.  Samsung said it posted pictures of the Galaxy tab on its
German website on June 6 so Apple knew sales would start in the
country. Because the iPad maker only filed its bid in August, it
cannot claim to need an emergency ruling, Samsung said.  IFA Convention  Apple’s lawyers say the posted pictures weren’t enough to
judge whether its design rights were violated. This was only
possible after a German computer magazine published an article
reviewing the Galaxy tablet.  Samsung asked the court to issue a ruling earlier or
suspend the current ban. The Sept. 9 ruling won’t allow Samsung
to show its tablet at the IFA consumer electronics trade show,
held in Berlin from Sept. 2 to Sept. 7.  Judge Brueckner-Hofmann rejected allegations Apple forged
pictures in its court filings. There was a technical error in
only one of the pictures that was easily explained and
unintentional, according to the judge. The court reviewed the
physically Galaxy so the mistake can’t be decisive, she said.  The court won’t take Stanley Kubrick’s 1968 film “2001: A
Space Odyssey” into account, she said, commenting on claims by
Samsung in a U.S. case that a tablet appeared there. The film
sequence doesn’t allow one to compare that device with Apple’s
EU-protected design, she said.  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  announced his
resignation yesterday. Jobs, who will become chairman, was on
medical leave after combating a rare form of cancer and is
succeeded by Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook , who has been
running day-to-day operations.  The German case is: LG Dusseldorf, 14c O 194/11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  