-- 
Apple’s Shares Pare Losses After Investors Praise New CEO

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-08-25T20:46:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/apple-shares-drop-after-steve-jobs-resigns.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  shares pared earlier
losses as investors expressed confidence in new Chief Executive
Officer  Tim Cook  and some analysts speculated that the company
may offer a dividend or buy back stock.  Apple traded at $373.72, down less than 1 percent, at 4
p.m.  New York  time on the Nasdaq Stock Market, following a
decline of as much as 3 percent earlier in the session. Cook is
taking the reins from  Steve Jobs , who co-founded the company.  While Jobs’s vision has transformed the business from a
personal-computer also-ran into the world’s largest technology
company, concerns about his health had pulled down the stock.
The transition removes that uncertainty, said Bill Shope, an
analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York. Apple also may
consider distributing cash to shareholders, either through a
dividend or buyback, he said.  “We expect investors will embrace Tim Cook as permanent
CEO,” Shope said in a report. “Apple’s platform is now
stronger than ever and can be successfully managed by Mr. Cook
and Apple’s deep bench.”  Jobs, who will become chairman, had been on medical leave
since Jan. 17, following a 2003 cancer diagnosis and a  liver
transplant  in 2009. Cook, 50, was already running day-to-day
operations at the Cupertino, California-based company.  ‘That Day Has Come’  “I have always said if there ever came a day when I could
no longer meet my duties and expectations as Apple’s CEO, I
would be the first to let you know,” Jobs, 56, said in a
statement yesterday. “Unfortunately, that day has come.”  Under Jobs, Apple became the second-most valuable company
in the world, after  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , by introducing devices
that revolutionized the computer, music and mobile phone
industries. Jobs left Cook at the helm when he was on leave in
the first half of 2009, and Cook built confidence with investors
during that stint, when the shares gained about 70 percent.  “There’s so much long-term growth priced into the stock
that everyone is kind of afraid what’s happens a couple of
cycles from now,” said Hussein Kanji, a venture capitalist and
adviser to technology startups who was formerly with  Accel
Partners . “Apple has defined great products as a function of
Steve Jobs, that’s the worry for most investors.”  Jobs’s Legacy  Jobs’s attention to detail and emphasis on sleek, easy-to-
use products helped Apple repel competition from rivals as
varied as Google Inc. and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   “He’s always going to be remembered, maybe for the next
100 years, as the greatest technology business leader of our
time,” Steve Wozniak, who co-founded Apple with Jobs, said in
an interview on “Bloomberg West.” “Company culture doesn’t
change overnight. He’s got tens of thousands of employees. The
quality of the products reflects how good they are, too.”  The day of the announcement, Jobs was in Apple’s
headquarters for the entire work day, and he attended a
regularly scheduled board meeting, according to a person close
to Jobs, who was not authorized to speak about the executive’s
health. While Jobs has been housebound for the past few weeks
and his condition is weak, the resignation wasn’t indicative of
a sudden worsening, this person said.  ‘Big Shoes’  “A  succession plan  is now clear and potentially removes an
investor concern,” Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach
Inc., said in a report. He recommends investors buy the stock.
“Tim Cook has very big shoes to fill, but he has been groomed
for the position since being named COO in 2005.”  Jobs told the board he intends to be an active chairman,
and he held an emotional meeting with his executive team
afterward, according to another person familiar with the matter.  “Steve’s extraordinary vision and leadership saved Apple
and guided it to its position as the world’s most innovative and
valuable technology company,” Art Levinson, an Apple director,
said in a statement on behalf of the board. “Steve has made
countless contributions to Apple’s success, and he has attracted
and inspired Apple’s immensely creative employees and world
class executive team.”  Jobs was ousted by the board in 1985 amid differences over
strategy. In his time away, Jobs ran movie animation studio
Pixar, which he later sold to  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , as well as NeXT
Software Inc., a company Apple acquired to return him to the
company. Jobs is Disney’s largest shareholder, with a 7.4
percent stake. He will remain on the entertainment company’s
board, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Near Bankruptcy  When Jobs returned in 1997, Apple had run up $1.86 billion
in losses over two years. It was 90 days away from bankruptcy,
Jobs would later say.  Apple stock surged about 9,000 percent since July 29, 1997,
the day before the  San Francisco  Chronicle broke news that Jobs
would be interim CEO. Over that period, the market value rose to
$348.7 billion from $2.06 billion.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  CEO Stephen Elop said he expects Jobs to continue
to influence the course of  information technology .  “Steve Jobs is a visionary in the computer industry,”
Elop said in an e-mailed statement today. “We look forward to
both Steve and his team having a positive impact on our industry
for many years to come.”  Nokia is trying to advance its capabilities in smartphones
after losing market share to Apple and Samsung Electronics Co.,
which beat the Finnish company in unit sales of these handsets
last quarter.  ‘Brings Clarity’  Any slump in Apple shares may be short lived, said Daniel Genter, who oversees about $3.7 billion as president of Los
Angeles-based RNC Genter Capital Management.  “Jobs has been a strong figure in the company
historically, but he hasn’t been a driving force for the past
two years,” Genter said. “It brings clarity. It shouldn’t have
an effect on the overall market, but this market is so skittish
so it may have a short-term negative impact.”  Since his return, Jobs has led Apple’s transformation into
a seller of everything from smartphones to music. He engineered
Apple’s comeback by honing its industrial design, tightly
integrating software and hardware, and pushing into new markets.  The iPhone, introduced in 2007, has become Apple’s best-
selling product and turned the company into the world’s biggest
smartphone maker. After winning customers away from  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  and Nokia, Apple is now sparring with Google for
leadership in the market for mobile-phone software.  “Under Steve’s leadership Apple has not only
revolutionized the computer industry but also transformed how
the world communicates, plays, shops and works,” said  Frank Quattrone , CEO of Qatalyst Partners LLP, a Silicon Valley
investment bank. “In the entrepreneur hall of fame, he is the
charter member. He is, and will remain, an inspiration to the
world.”  Cook joined Apple in 1998. As operating chief, his
oversight included sales, manufacturing and distribution.  “The world will see in the next several years that Tim is
a very uniquely gifted guy and Apple will be wildly successful
under his leadership,” said John Connors, a venture capitalist
at Ignition Partners, who serves on  Nike Inc. (NKE) ’s board with Cook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  