-- 
Jobs Said to Stay on Disney Board After Reducing Apple Role

-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 
2011-08-25T02:48:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/apple-s-jobs-said-to-stay-on-disney-board.html
     Aug. 24 (Bloomberg) --  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s  Steve Jobs  will remain
on the board of  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , according to a person with
knowledge of the matter, after resigning as chief executive
officer of the personal-computer company he founded.  There is no change in Jobs’ status at Burbank, California-
based Disney, said the person, who wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly. Jobs, Disney’s largest shareholder with a 7.4 percent
stake, joined the board after the media company acquired his
Pixar Animation studio for $7 billion in May 2006.  Jobs, 56, has battled a rare form of cancer since 2003, and
had been on medical leave at Apple since January. While Disney
Chief Executive Officer Bob Iger has cited his input on matters
such as branding, health issues limited Jobs’ participation on
Disney’s board in fiscal 2009 and 2010, according to the media
company’s January proxy filing.  “As was the case last year, Mr. Jobs’ ability to attend
board meetings was influenced by health considerations,” Disney
said in the filing.  Among Disney directors, Jobs was the only one who failed to
attend 75 percent of board and committee meetings for the year
ended in October 2010, the filing said. At his request, he
receives no compensation as a director.  Jobs was named chairman of Apple today, and will be
succeeded as CEO by  Tim Cook , 50. He owns 138 million Disney
shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Disney, owner of ABC, ESPN and the world’s biggest theme-
park business, gained 40 cents to $32.51 today in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have lost 13 percent this
year.  Jobs’ plan to remain on Disney’s board was reported earlier
by CNBC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in  Los Angeles  at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  