-- 
Apple Shares Drop After Steve Jobs Resigns

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-08-25T04:05:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/apple-shares-decline-after-steve-jobs-resigns-as-chief-executive-officer.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  shares declined after the
resignation of Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs , who
transformed the company he started at age 21 from a personal-
computer also-ran into the world’s largest technology company.  The shares fell as much as 7 percent in extended trading in
the U.S. yesterday after the announcement. Jobs, who will become
chairman, was on medical leave since Jan. 17, following a 2003
cancer diagnosis and a  liver transplant  in 2009. He is succeeded
by Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook , 50, who has been running
day-to-day operations.  “I have always said if there ever came a day when I could
no longer meet my duties and expectations as Apple’s CEO, I
would be the first to let you know,” Jobs, 56, said in a
statement yesterday. “Unfortunately, that day has come.”  Under Jobs, Apple became the second-most valuable company
in the world, after  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , by introducing devices
that revolutionized the computer, music and mobile phone
industries. Jobs left Cook at the helm when he was on leave in
the first half of 2009, and Cook built confidence with investors
during that stint, when the shares gained about 70 percent.  “You can expect that it’s going to take a hit,” said
Kenneth Polcari, a managing director at ICAP Corporates, in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. “After it all settles
down, people are going to realize that Apple is not a company
that didn’t have a plan in place, that didn’t realize at some
point this was going to happen.”  Apple dropped as low as $350 following the announcement,
after rising $2.58 to $376.18 at 4 p.m. New York time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market.  Jobs’s Legacy  As CEO, Jobs’s attention to detail and emphasis on sleek,
easy-to-use products helped Apple repel competition from rivals
as varied as Google Inc. and  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)   “He’s always going to be remembered, maybe for the next
100 years, as the greatest technology business leader of our
time,” Steve Wozniak, who co-founded Apple with Jobs, said in
an interview on “Bloomberg West.” “Company culture doesn’t
change overnight. He’s got tens of thousands of employees. The
quality of the products reflects how good they are, too.”  The day of the announcement, Jobs was in Apple’s Cupertino,
California, office for the entire work day, and he attended a
regularly scheduled board meeting, according to a person close
to Jobs, who was not authorized to speak about the executive’s
health. While Jobs has been housebound for the past few weeks
and his condition is weak, the resignation was not indicative of
a sudden worsening, this person said.  ‘Extraordinary Vision’  Jobs told the board he intends to be an active chairman,
and he held an emotional meeting with his executive team
afterward, according to another person familiar with the matter.  “Steve’s extraordinary vision and leadership saved Apple
and guided it to its position as the world’s most innovative and
valuable technology company,” Art Levinson, an Apple director,
said in a statement on behalf of the board. “Steve has made
countless contributions to Apple’s success, and he has attracted
and inspired Apple’s immensely creative employees and world
class executive team.”  Jobs was ousted by the board in 1985 amid differences over
strategy. In his time away, Jobs ran movie animation studio
Pixar, which he later sold to Walt Disney Co., as well as NeXT
Software Inc., a company Apple acquired to return him to the
company. Jobs is Disney’s largest shareholder, with a 7.4
percent stake. He will remain on the entertainment company’s
board, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  When Jobs returned in 1997, Apple had run up $1.86 billion
in losses over two years. It was 90 days away from bankruptcy,
Jobs would later say.  Stock Surge  Apple stock surged 9,020 percent since July 29, 1997, the
day before the  San Francisco  Chronicle broke news that Jobs
would be interim CEO. Over that period, the market value rose to
$348.7 billion from $2.06 billion.  Any slump in the shares may be short lived, said Daniel Genter, who oversees about $3.7 billion as president of Los
Angeles-based RNC Genter Capital Management.  “Jobs has been a strong figure in the company
historically, but he hasn’t been a driving force for the past
two years,” said Genter. “It brings clarity. It shouldn’t have
an effect on the overall market, but this market is so skittish
so it may have a short-term negative impact.”  Transformation  Since his return, Jobs has led Apple’s transformation into
a seller of everything from smartphones to music. He engineered
the company’s comeback by honing Apple’s industrial design,
tightly integrating software and hardware, and pushing into new
markets.  The iPhone, introduced in 2007, has become Apple’s best-
selling product and turned the company into the world’s biggest
smartphone maker. After winning customers away from Research In
Motion Ltd. and Nokia Oyj, Apple is now sparring with Google for
leadership in the market for mobile-phone software.  “Under Steve’s leadership Apple has not only
revolutionized the computer industry but also transformed how
the world communicates, plays, shops and works,” said  Frank Quattrone , CEO of Qatalyst Partners LLP, a Silicon Valley
investment bank. “In the entrepreneur hall of fame, he is the
charter member. He is, and will remain, an inspiration to the
world.”  Cook joined Apple in 1998. As operating chief, his
oversight included sales, manufacturing and distribution.  “The world will see in the next several years that Tim is
a very uniquely gifted guy and Apple will be wildly successful
under his leadership,” said John Connors, a venture capitalist
at Ignition Partners, who serves on the Nike Inc. board with
Cook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  