-- 
Apple Should Explain Jobs’s New Role, Governance Experts Say

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-25T20:23:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/apple-should-explain-jobs-s-new-role-governance-experts-say.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  should provide greater
detail about  Steve Jobs ’s new responsibilities as chairman to
give investors clarity on his role at the company, corporate-
governance experts said.  Jobs resigned as chief executive officer and was elected to
the new position of chairman, Apple said yesterday. As former
Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook  takes over as CEO, questions
remain about whether Jobs will help manage the company’s
operational decisions or just lead the board, said  Charles Elson , director of the University of Delaware’s Center for
Corporate Governance, in an interview.  “A fuller explanation of what his role as chairman will be
would be helpful,” said Elson. “Some people become chairman
and still run the company. Other people become chair and you
never see them again.”  Jobs, 56, told the board he intends to be an active
chairman. Investors may have trouble deciphering Jobs’s new role
as long as there is a lack of information about his health and
job duties, said Elson. Still, keeping Jobs in a leadership role
may be a good idea because it gives the company continuity,
important for Apple’s investors and customers, said Jay Lorsch,
a professor at  Harvard Business School  in  Boston .  Jobs had been on medical leave since Jan. 17 following a
2003 cancer diagnosis and a  liver transplant  in 2009. Cupertino,
California-based Apple, maker of the iPhone, iPad tablet and
Macintosh personal computers, has revealed few details about
Jobs’s cancer or his transplant. The company is unlikely to
begin talking about them now, and explaining his duties as
chairman are more important than disclosures about his health,
Elson said.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment.  Role of Chairman  All companies should make it a practice to outline the
roles of their chairmen, even though they are under no legal
obligation to do so, said Harvard’s Lorsch, who has served on
the boards of four publicly traded companies.  Moving former CEOs to chairman positions isn’t recommended
 corporate governance , Lorsch said. A lack of clear boundaries
can confuse directors and investors as to who is actually
running the company, he said.  “If the prior CEO stays on as chairman, particularly if
he’s the founder, he tends to overshadow the CEO,” said Lorsch.
“He makes it very difficult for the CEO to set a new course.  “Most of the time, the best thing is to ask the retired
CEO to do something else,” Lorsch said. “But in this case,
Apple wants the impression that Jobs is still there, even if
he’s not running the place.”  Apple declined $2.46, or 0.7 percent, to $373.72 at 4 p.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have gained
16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  