-- 
Aref Energy Expects Profit to Increase 8% on Exit Plans

-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 
2011-08-25T15:11:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/aref-energy-expects-profit-to-increase-8-on-exit-plans-1-.html
Aref Energy Holding KSCC, part of
Kuwaiti investment company Aref Investment Group, expects profit
to increase by about 8 percent this year if it succeeds in
exiting an investment.  “We are hoping to be successful in exiting one of our
matured projects,” Chief Executive Officer Tareq al-Wazzan said
today in a telephone interview in  Kuwait City . “We expect net
returns to be no less than 8 percent of the estimated total exit
value, which is 37.8 million dinars ($138.9 million).”  If successful, gains will be added to the fourth-quarter
results, the CEO said, without naming the investment, in
adherence with Kuwait’s regulations. The company posted net
income of 10.8 million dinars last year, Bloomberg data shows.  Aref Energy signed a deal in March to acquire a 51 percent
stake in Dubai’s Al Meshari Heavy Equipment Trading Co. for 13
million dirhams ($3.5 million). It also holds a 25 percent stake
in Synfuels International Inc, which operates in Iraq and
 Turkmenistan . The Kuwait-based company also owns a 10 percent
stake in Makamin Saudi Company for Oil and Gas Services, as well
as operations in Sudan and  India .  The company is eyeing an acquisition opportunity in the
 Middle East  and North Africa region, al-Wazzan said. He declined
to give further information as the decision is not final. “Our
interest will continue to be focused on the MENA region where a
huge bulk of money is expected to be spent on oil and power
services over the next five years,” he said.  China  Market  Aref Energy is also planning to invest about $10 million in
a $50 million fund set up by  ZhongDe Waste Technology AG (ZEF)  for the
construction of four energy-from-waste plants in China.  “China is a very attractive market as the energy demand is
so huge and hydrocarbon might not be the solution to balance the
demand factor there,” al-Wazzan said.  “It is not finalized, but we have intentions to issue
sukuk through a local or international financial institution
before the end of 2012” to raise the financing required for
expansions, al-Wazzan said. “The amount is not yet determined
and will depend on the value of the expansion under
discussion,” he said.  The company’s share price dropped 5 percent to 93 fils,
when the stock last traded on Aug. 21. The stock has declined 48
percent this year, compared with a 17 percent frop in  Kuwait ’s
benchmark index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 