-- 
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, May Miss $3.3 Million Payment

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-08-25T19:36:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/harrisburg-pennsylvania-may-not-make-3-3-million-bond-payment-sept-15.html
Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania ’s capital,
may miss $3.3 million in general-obligation bond payments due
Sept. 15 if council members fail to approve a portion of a
fiscal rescue plan, according to the mayor’s spokesman.  The city faces a $5 million deficit and is trying to
arrange for a $7.5 million advance on a lease of municipal land
to the Harrisburg Parking Authority. Harrisburg entered the
state’s Act 47 fiscal-rescue program in December.  “If the Parking Authority lease doesn’t go through, the
city will not be able to make that payment,” Robert Philbin, a
spokesman for Mayor  Linda Thompson , said by telephone from
Harrisburg today.  Ambac Assurance, a unit of Ambac Financial Group Inc.,
which filed for bankruptcy protection in November, insures the
debt. Michael Fitzgerald, a spokesman for New York-based Ambac,
declined to comment.  Last year, a Harrisburg default on its general-obligation
bonds was averted after former Governor  Ed Rendell , a Democrat,
expedited state funds to make the payments.  “It is important that all parties continue to work with
the city and the mayor to implement a fiscal recovery plan in a
timely manner that puts Harrisburg back on the path to financial
solvency,” Steven Kratz, a spokesman for the state’s Department
of Community and  Economic Development , which runs the
distressed-cities program, said by e-mail.  He said he was speaking for the administration of
Republican Governor Tom Corbett, who took office in January.  Incinerator Debt  Harrisburg’s crisis stems from its guarantee of debt for
the overhaul and expansion of an incinerator. The community of
49,500, where about one-third of residents live below the
poverty level, is also dealing with declining tax revenue.  Thompson plans to ask the City Council on Aug. 31 to
approve her recovery plan. It calls for asset sales and a
potential commuter tax to retire the debt burden, which is five
times Harrisburg’s general-fund budget. Her proposal follows
most recommendations made by state-appointed consultants and
rejected by the council on July 19, a first for Pennsylvania’s
24-year-old distressed-city program.  Thompson previously said she would honor debt service
before employees’ payroll if her plan wasn’t passed. Philbin
attributed the reversal to the council not yet approving the
Parking Authority lease.  As of today, her administration hadn’t sent legislation on
the lease to the council to vote on, according to Kirk Petroski,
acting city clerk.  Bankruptcy Ban  While Harrisburg in 2009 started skipping payments on debt
related to the incinerator, it hasn’t defaulted on general-
obligation bonds. Since then, divisions between the mayor and
council have hindered the city’s ability to find a solution.  The capital is barred from seeking  bankruptcy protection 
before July, according to a Pennsylvania law that said the city
would lose state funds if it tried.  Rejection of Thompson’s plan by the council also risks $3
million in state aid.  Court hearings are scheduled next month in lawsuits seeking
to force the city to turn over revenue to creditors and appoint
a receiver for the incinerator. Harrisburg needs $310 million to
make bond payments, restructure debt and repay Dauphin County
and insurer Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp., which made
payments the city skipped on the waste-to-energy facility.  If Thompson fails to get council members to approve her
plan, Pennsylvania “may make them dangle” and not prevent the
general-obligation bond default, said Alan Schankel, director of
fixed-income research at the Philadelphia financial-services
firm Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.  ‘Other Cudgel’  “If you have a City Council or the leadership as a whole
that can’t get their act together, I don’t know what other
cudgel the state has,” he said in a telephone interview.  A default by Harrisburg might increase borrowing costs for
the state and its municipalities, Schankel said. Local
governments in  Alabama  are facing higher  interest rates  because
of the possible bankruptcy of Jefferson County.  “It would send a tough signal about Pennsylvania issuers,
so they would have to think hard about” letting Harrisburg
default, Schankel said of state officials.  Kratz declined to comment on the potential effect of a
default on borrowing costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  