-- 
Arsenal Tops Udinese to Join 11 Ex-Winners in Champions League Group Stage

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-08-25T00:04:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/arsenal-tops-udinese-to-join-11-ex-winners-in-champions-league-group-stage.html
Arsenal will enter the  Champions
League  group-stage draw for the 14th straight season today 
after coming from behind to win 2-1 at Udinese.  Robin van Persie  and  Theo Walcott  scored in the second half
and Wojciech Szczesny stopped a penalty kick in  Italy  last night
as Arsenal advanced 3-1 over the two-match playoff.  “It’s a relief because we didn’t want to go out,” Arsenal
manager  Arsene Wenger  told ITV. “We had our backs to the wall
and responded very well in the second half.”  Benfica, Lyon, BATE Borisov and Viktoria Plzen also
progressed to the 32-team group stage of European soccer’s elite
club competition. The 10 playoff winners join 22 automatic
qualifiers in the draw in  Monaco . Teams received a minimum of
7.2 million euros ($10.3 million) from tournament organizer UEFA
for participating last season.  Trailing 1-0 from last week’s first leg in London, Udinese
tied the series on Antonio Di Natale’s 39th-minute header. It
came after Serie A’s top scorer the past two seasons had a goal
disallowed for offside and also hit the post.  Arsenal went back in front over the two games in the 55th
minute as Gervinho went around defender Medhi Benatia and passed
to van Persie, who scored from six yards (5.5 meters) out.  Udinese was denied four minutes later as Szczesny dived to
his right to stop Di Natale’s penalty after a handball by  Thomas Vermaelen . Walcott then clinched the victory in the 69th minute
when he fired a shot past Samir Handanovic.  Under Pressure  The result may take some of the early season pressure off
Wenger and his players. The Gunners have one point after their
opening two English Premier League games and sold midfielders
Cesc Fabregas to  Barcelona  and Samir Nasri to  Manchester City  in
the past 11 days.  “For us not to play in the Champions League and with the
players who have left, that pressure would have increased,
understandably,” Wenger said at a news conference. “Since the
beginning of the season, I feel a very strong, determined
attitude within the team.”  Axel Witsel scored twice as two-time European champion
Benfica beat FC Twente 3-1 at home to complete a 5-3 win. BATE
Borisov of Belarus advanced 3-1 on aggregate after beating Sturm
Graz 2-0 on goals from Aleksandr Volodko and Marko Simic.  Czech champion Viktoria Plzen secured its first group-stage
berth by beating Copenhagen 2-1 for a 5-2 series win. Lyon
advanced for the 12th straight season after a 1-1 draw at Rubin
Kazan sent the French team through 4-2 on aggregate. Lyon had
been a goal away from going out when Bakary Kone tied it in the
87th minute.  High Stakes  “I tried not to think about the stakes of this game and
everything else and just focus on the match itself,” Lyon coach
Remi Garde said in comments on  UEFA ’s website. “At 1-0, we were
far from comfortable, but we managed to stop them.”  Four-time champion  Bayern Munich , Villarreal, Dinamo
Zagreb, Genk and Apoel Nicosia advanced from their playoff
series two days ago.  Bayern, whose  Allianz Arena  will host the May 19, 2012
final, is one of 11 previous European Cup winners to feature in
today’s draw. Nine of the former champions, including last
season’s finalists Barcelona and  Manchester United , were
automatic qualifiers.  Plzen joins Manchester City, Napoli, Trabzonspor and Otelul
Galati in making their group-stage debuts. The 32 clubs are
split into four seeding pots with one from each drawn into eight
groups. Teams from the same country can’t meet each other.  “We can look forward to playing some great teams in the
group stage,” Plzen coach Pavel Vrba said on UEFA.com. “Bayern
Munich are the side I would like to play.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  