-- 
Stocks Fall After Selling Deluge in Germany

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s ,   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-25T21:09:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/asian-stocks-gain-on-economy-u-s-futures-fall-on-apple-yen-strengthens.html
Stocks dropped worldwide, snapping a
three-day rally for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, after the
U.S. said jobless claims increased and traders sold German
equity futures before France, Italy and  Spain  extended curbs on
short selling. Gold, the dollar and Treasuries rallied.  The  S&P 500  fell 1.6 percent to 1,159.27 at 4 p.m. in New
York, after climbing 4.8 percent over the past three days. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 1.2 percent. Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX) 
ended the day with a 1.7 percent slump, recovering from a 15-
minute plunge of 4 percent. Gold added 0.3 percent, halting its
biggest decline since 2008. The Dollar Index jumped 0.3 percent.
Yields on 10-year Treasury notes lost seven basis points before
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  begins a speech in
Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , at 10 a.m. New York time.  Traders hedged their investments by selling DAX futures,
lifting volume to a quarter of the daily average within a 30-
minute period. That dragged down the index, pulling equities in
the U.S. and throughout  Europe  lower, and drove Treasuries and
the dollar higher. After European markets closed, French,
Italian and Spanish stock-market regulators extended bans on
short selling introduced this month.  “We’re not out of the woods, and the market is reflecting
that,” Paul Zemsky, the New York-based head of  asset allocation 
for ING Investment Management, said in a phone interview. His
firm oversees $550 billion. “The European situation is still a
mess. Sometimes these markets get hit because they are the most
liquid. If you want to dump risk quickly in Europe, shorting
Germany is probably the best way to do it.”  Whipsawing Investors  When U.S. exchanges opened, the S&P 500 advanced as much as
1.1 percent after  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
agreed to invest $5 billion in  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , which had
plunged 53 percent in 2011. The stock rallied 9.4 percent after
surging as much as 26 percent. At the same time, Nasdaq-100
Index futures erased losses that had been driven by  Steve Jobs 
resigning as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s chief executive officer. Apple shares
lost 0.7 percent.  Declines in stocks intensified at about 9:45 a.m. New York
time. The DAX dropped from about 5,681, yesterday’s closing
level, to 5,451.52 at 10:01 a.m. A report at 8:30 a.m. showed an
increase in American jobless claims that economists didn’t
anticipate. Nobel-prize winning economist Joseph Stiglitz said
the chances of the  U.S. economy  going back into recession are
“very high,” speaking at a conference today in Lindau,
 Germany . The city of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, said it may miss
a $3.3 million bond payment on Sept. 15.  ‘Such a Mishmash’  “It’s such a mishmash,”  Hank Smith , chief investment
officer at Haverford Trust Co. in Radnor, Pennsylvania, said in
a telephone interview. His firm manages about $6.5 billion.
“You have Buffett investing in Bank of America, which is a bet
on the U.S. economy. Still, the employment picture is not a good
one,” he said. “Then, there’s the European debt crisis. If
global growth slows, that could be more of an issue.”  Investors are awaiting tomorrow’s speech by Bernanke in
Jackson Hole, Wyoming, and will be looking for indications of
whether the central bank will embark on further stimulus.  “The markets have been very sensitive to every piece of
economic data,”  Keith Wirtz , the Cincinnati-based chief
investment officer at Fifth Third Asset Management, which
oversees $16.7 billion, said in a telephone interview. “You
still got an indication that we have a poor labor market. When
it comes to  Jackson Hole , the sentiment has been all over the
place. It seems that the recent stock performance has been
supported by expectations of QE3. If there’s no indication
tomorrow, this market may retrace.”  Jobless Claims  Before Buffett’s Bank of America investment drove equities
higher, stock futures erased gains after jobless claims climbed
by 5,000 to 417,000 in the week ended Aug. 20, Labor Department
figures showed today in  Washington . Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected a drop in claims to 405,000, according
to the median forecast. Claims were pushed up for a second time
by a labor dispute at Verizon Communications Inc.  Data tomorrow may indicate the world’s biggest economy grew
1.1 percent in the second quarter, down from a previous estimate
of 1.3 percent, according to the median of 80 forecasts in a
separate survey.  Gold rebounded, erasing a loss of 3 percent, as the drop in
equities increased the precious metal’s appeal as a haven asset.
Gold futures gained 0.3 percent to settle at $1,763.20. Prices
tumbled 7.1 percent in the previous two sessions, after gaining
as much as 18 percent this month to an all-time high of
$1,917.90.  Treasuries  The yield on 30-year Treasuries dropped six basis points as
the jobless claims report fueled concern the economic recovery
is slowing and stoking demand for U.S. debt. Government debt
snapped three days of declines.  The U.S. sold $29 billion in seven-year notes at a record
low yield of 1.58 percent. Today’s offering is the third of
three auctions of U.S. notes this week totaling $99 billion. The
Treasury sold $35 billion of five-year debt yesterday at a yield
of 1.029 percent and the same amount of two-year securities on
Aug. 23 at 0.222 percent, both record auction lows.  The euro weakened for a second day against the dollar,
dropping 0.2 percent to $1.4379. It touched $1.4328, the lowest
level since Aug. 19, after gaining as much as 0.4 percent
earlier. The yen dropped against all of its 16 major peers.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the dollar against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners including the euro and yen, gained 0.3 percent
after declining 0.3 percent earlier.  Hurricane Irene  Crude oil increased as Hurricane Irene threatened to shut
refineries on the U.S. East Coast. Crude oil for October
delivery gained 0.2 percent to settle at $85.30 a barrel on the
 New York  Mercantile Exchange. Irene is on a course that would
skirt the coast this weekend before slamming into  New England .  Copper rose 2.3 percent, the most in two weeks, after
Glencore International Plc, the largest publicly traded
commodity trader, said demand growth for the metal is set to
maintain its pace. Stockpiles of copper in bonded warehouses in
 China , the world’s biggest user of the metal, have dropped about
50 percent this year, according to Glencore.  The Shanghai Composite Index jumped 2.9 percent, the most
in 10 months, after Bank of China Ltd. said first-half profit
jumped 28 percent to a record while bad loans dropped.
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the world’s largest
lender by market value, and Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.
reported earnings that topped analysts’ estimates after local
markets closed.  The Czech PX Index advanced 1 percent, rallying for a
second day after S&P upgraded the country by two notches to AA-.
Komercni Banka AS jumped 2.9 percent in Prague after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. recommended buying the bank’s shares. The MSCI
Emerging Markets Index dropped 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  