-- 
AT&T Explains Network Benefits of T-Mobile Deal to Regulators

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-08-25T18:44:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/at-t-explains-network-benefits-of-t-mobile-deal-to-regulators.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  met with U.S. and state
regulators to explain how its proposed $39 billion purchase of
T-Mobile USA Inc. would improve wireless service and expand
network capacity.  William Hogg, AT&T’s senior vice president of network
planning and engineering, answered the regulators’ questions
about the company’s analysis of the deal during an Aug. 22
teleconference, the company said in a filing posted today on the
Federal Communications Commission’s website.  Officials from the FCC, the U.S.  Justice Department , and
the offices of the New York and Texas attorneys general took
part in the teleconference, according to the FCC filing, which
was partially redacted.  Hogg in an April 21 declaration said the merger would
result in fewer dropped and blocked calls, faster data services,
and expanded high-speed wireless coverage.  The FCC and Justice Department are vetting the acquisition
proposed March 20 in a review AT&T executives have said will
take about a year. AT&T’s purchase of T-Mobile would combine the
second- and fourth-largest carriers to create a new market
leader ahead of No. 1 Verizon Wireless.  “Requests from the FCC staff for additional information
are to be expected given the detailed review they are
undertaking,” AT&T spokesman Michael Balmoris said in an e-
mail. “The bottom line, and what the models confirm, is that
our merger will create significant additional capacity that will
result in improved service.”  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-largest U.S. wireless
carrier, is among those opposing the merger, saying it would
damage competition.  In a separate filing posted yesterday, AT&T provided detail
on how it would gauge improvements in network performance
resulting from the proposed merger. The company said the quality
metrics include signal-strength gains and reduced need for
customers to spend time on slower-speed networks.  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, did not respond to a request
for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  