-- 
Aussie Falls as German Confidence Data Signals Slowdown; Kiwi Halts Drop

-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-08-25T16:26:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/australia-s-dollar-weakens-as-german-confidence-data-may-signal-slowdown.html
The Australian dollar slid for a
second day versus its U.S. counterpart as global equities fell
amid speculation  Germany ’s public finances are deteriorating.  New Zealand’s dollar rose after a report yesterday showed
retail sales advanced for the first time in three quarters. The
Aussie also weakened versus a majority of its most-traded peers
amid reduced prospects Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
will signal additional measures to stimulate the economy
tomorrow.  “There are still a lot of global concerns and that still
weighs heavily on sentiment,” said Matthew Brady, executive
director for foreign exchange at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney.
“I would like to sell any rallies for the Australian dollar at
this point.”  Australia ’s dollar slid 0.3 percent to $1.0444 at 12:16
p.m. in  New York  from $1.0474 yesterday, when it dropped 0.5
percent. It fell 0.3 percent to 80.83 yen from 80.63 yen.  New Zealand ’s currency was little changed at 82.84 U.S.
cents. The so-called kiwi surged 0.6 percent to 63.93 yen from
63.77 yen.  Germany-based market research company GfK SE today forecast
that its consumer sentiment index will decline to 5.2 next
month, the least since November 2010, from a revised 5.3 in
August. Economists predicted a drop to 5.1 from the initial
August estimate of 5.4, according to the median of 26 forecasts
in a Bloomberg News survey.  Business confidence in  Europe ’s biggest economy has
declined to the lowest in more than a year and investor
sentiment this month sank the most in five years, data released
this week showed.  Jackson Hole  The Fed chairman is scheduled to speak tomorrow at a
conference of central bankers in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming. At the
same conference last year, Bernanke said the Fed would “do all
that it can” to spur growth, raising speculation he will make
similar comments this year. The Fed went on to announce in
November a $600 billion debt-purchase plan, the second round of
so-called quantitative easing that ended in June.  Demand for the kiwi was supported as better than forecast
retail sales data lifted prospects for interest-rate increases
by the  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand.  Statistics New Zealand said in Wellington today that retail
sales adjusted for inflation rose 0.9 percent in the second
quarter compared with a revised 1.1 percent gain in the three
months ended March 31. That exceeded the 0.6 percent median
estimate of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “New Zealand consumer spending is far stronger than that
observed in the other dollar-bloc countries,”  Annette Beacher ,
head of Asia-Pacific research at TD Securities in  Singapore ,
wrote in an e-mailed note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  