-- 
Australian Dollar Rises as Stevens’s Comments Reduce Rate-Cut Speculation

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-08-26T15:49:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/australian-dollar-holds-two-day-loss-on-speculation-of-slower-u-s-growth.html
The Australian dollar rose against a
majority of its most-traded counterparts as Reserve Bank
Governor  Glenn Stevens  told lawmakers that inflation merits
“careful watching.”  The Aussie touched a two-week high versus the yen as
Stevens discouraged speculation that the central bank will cut
interest rates. The Australian dollar briefly pared its advance
against the greenback after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank still has tools to stimulate the
economy without signaling whether policy makers might use them.  “Stevens’s comments suggest the central bank hasn’t
abandoned its tightening bias, spurring buying of the Aussie
because it’s been sold as the market priced in rate cuts,” said
Teppei Ino, an analyst at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in
Tokyo.  Australia’s dollar appreciated 1.3 percent to $1.0568 at
11:46 a.m. in  New York , from $1.0431 yesterday. The Aussie
gained 0.2 percent to 80.99 yen, from 80.81, after touching
81.28, the highest level since Aug. 8. The  New Zealand dollar 
climbed 1.5 percent to 83.92 U.S. cents, from 82.70 yesterday.
The kiwi rose 0.3 percent to 64.27 yen.  Swaps traders have pared bets on Australian interest-rate
cuts, with a Credit Suisse Group AG index signaling 1.26
percentage points of reductions over the next 12 months,
compared with a reduction of 1.53 percentage points that was
indicated last week.  ‘Under Control’  “Inflation bears careful watching, but we can keep it
under control,” said Stevens today in his opening  statement  to
a parliamentary committee in  Melbourne .  During three hours of questioning, Stevens indicated that
the central bank has sufficient “ammunition” with rates to
respond to a sudden downturn in the global economy, an outcome
he said he isn’t anticipating.  Since Stevens kept the overnight cash rate target at 4.75
percent for an eighth straight meeting on Aug. 2, investor
confidence has slumped after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
U.S. credit rating and Europe’s debt crisis deepened.  “If the global backdrop stabilizes, it appears fairly
clear to us the RBA has policy tightening in its sights,” Gavin Stacey, an interest-rate strategist in Sydney at Barclays Plc,
and Joaquin Vespignani, an economist at the company, wrote in a
research note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in  Tokyo  at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  