-- 
Mayor Bloomberg Says to Decide by 8 a.m. Saturday on Hurricane Evacuations

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-08-25T23:58:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/mayor-bloomberg-says-to-decide-by-8-a-m-saturday-on-hurricane-evacuations.html
New York  officials intend to shut
down the city’s mass transit system this weekend given the
predicted strength of Hurricane Irene, said  Jay Walder , chairman
of New York’s  Metropolitan Transportation Authority .  Walder said he would order the suspension of subway and bus
services throughout the city if sustained winds hit 39 miles per
hour (63 kilometers per hour). He said he expects to begin
shutting down the system on Saturday afternoon to give workers
an opportunity to shelter trains and buses safely. Service may
not resume until after rush hour Monday, Walder said.  The subways typically carry about 5.1 million riders on a
weekday, the MTA says on its  website . If the suspension goes
into effect on the 107-year-old  subway system , it would be the
first such shutdown in his memory, the MTA chairman said. A
shutdown of the mass transit system will take at least eight
hours, he said.  “We cannot guarantee the safety at 39 miles per hour,”
Walder said during a City Hall news conference. “At some point
Saturday mass transit is not going to be an option.”  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said service would likely be
restricted along with access to tunnels and bridges during the
weekend.  “Fundamentally you are not going to have mass transit take
you around Saturday late in the afternoon, into Monday,” the
mayor said. Bridges and tunnels would remain open on a “case by
case basis,” the mayor said.  He urged residents of  low-lying areas  in  Brooklyn , the
Rockaways, downtown  Manhattan  and  Staten Island  to move their
vehicles to higher ground and stay with friends and relatives
who reside away from shore areas.  “The more people we can get to move earlier the better off
we are,” the mayor said.  Direction and Ferocity  Bloomberg said he’d decide by 8 a.m. Saturday whether to
evacuate low-lying areas including Battery Park City in
Manhattan, Coney Island in Brooklyn, the Rockaways of Queens,
and areas of Staten Island, depending on the latest forecast
gauging Hurricane Irene’s approach and ferocity.  Elderly residents of nursing homes and patients in five
hospitals located in these areas will be transferred to
facilities on higher ground, beginning in Coney Island tonight
to be completed by 9 p.m. tomorrow, the mayor said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  