-- 
Bank of America Credit-Default Swaps Drop on Buffett Investment

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-08-25T21:38:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/bank-of-america-leads-credit-swaps-drop-on-5-billion-buffett-investment.html
Credit-default swaps on  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. lender, dropped after  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. agreed to invest $5 billion in
the nation’s biggest bank.  Contracts on the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender,
which surged to a record this week, declined 39.1 basis points
to 333.4 basis points, according to data provider CMA, as
speculation eased that the lender doesn’t have enough capital to
deal with losses from mortgages.  “This seemed to at least put to rest to some extent some
of the fears people had about their ability to raise capital,”
Tom Farina, managing director at Deutsche Insurance Asset
Management in New York, said in a telephone interview. “It
certainly doesn’t solve things, but it definitely helps.”  Credit swaps on the six biggest U.S. banks surged on Aug.
23 to the highest level in more than two years as  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis worsened. Contracts tied to Bank of
America’s debt jumped to a record 445 basis points the same day,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data. The swaps fell as low as
275 basis points today, according to broker Phoenix Partners
Group.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to speculate on creditworthiness or to hedge
against losses on corporate debt, rose 1.9 basis points to 126.7
basis points, after earlier touching as low as 119.6.  The index, which typically rises as confidence deteriorates
and falls as it improves, reached 126.8 on Aug. 22, the highest
level since June 9, 2010.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pierre Paulden at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net  