-- 
BofA ‘Buying Credibility’ With Buffett $5 Billion Investment

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i ,   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-08-25T21:59:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/bank-of-america-buying-credibility-with-buffett-s-5-billion-investment.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , seeking to
snap this year’s stock plunge, will pay billionaire Warren Buffett $300 million annually to do what he did for Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. during the credit crisis: bolster confidence.  The $5 billion sale of preferred equity, which initially
sent the shares up 26 percent, may improve investor perceptions
without meaningfully affecting the source of their concern, the
bank’s capital, according to analysts including William Tanona
at UBS AG. The deal gives Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
warrants that could make it the lender’s largest stockholder.  Bank of America lost almost half its value on the New York
Stock Exchange this year through yesterday as investors
speculated that costs linked to soured mortgages may force the
company to tap public markets for more capital. The slide
accelerated this month, even as Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  cut jobs, sold assets and said the firm didn’t need to
sell shares to meet new international capital standards.  “Concerns around Bank of America had hit a point where
they were driven more by emotion than logic,” Tanona wrote in a
research note to clients today. “This should temper those
emotions, at least for now.”  Bank of America’s trading floor in New York erupted in
cheers and applause when the news was announced this morning,
said a person at the company who witnessed the reaction but
wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Goldman Sachs  Buffett helped prop up  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in 2008
with a $5 billion investment that was repaid this year. The
billionaire’s move helped New York-based Goldman Sachs restore
market confidence after its stock tumbled and borrowing costs
jumped following the Sept. 15, 2008, collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  Buffett called Moynihan with the idea yesterday morning.
Moynihan initially told Buffett that the bank didn’t need extra
capital, according to a person familiar with the discussion who
asked to remain anonymous because the call was private. Buffett
said that was exactly why he was calling, because he thought the
bank was a good long-term investment, this person said.  There was no negotiation, said another person familiar with
the talks. Moynihan, 51, agreed to the terms late yesterday, and
Bank of America’s board met today to approve, both people said.  “There’s one  Warren Buffett  and when Warren Buffett calls
and says he wants to invest in your company, you take it
seriously,” said  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for the bank.  Bank Supervision  The Federal Reserve, which supervises the bank, was
notified of the investment, Dubrowski said. The Fed, which
hasn’t allowed Bank of America to raise its common-stock
dividend above a penny a share, doesn’t review capital-raising
investments representing less than 10 percent of voting stock.  The Bank of America cash injection may have little impact
on capital and doesn’t resolve mounting legal claims linked to
mortgages, many of which stem from the 2008 acquisition of
Countrywide Financial Corp. Shares of the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank pared their initial gains today, rising 9.4
percent to $7.65 in regular  New York  trading.  “He’s buying credibility,”  Richard Bove , an analyst at
Rochdale Securities LLC in Lutz,  Florida , said of Moynihan.  The investment will “modestly improve” Bank of America’s
 Tier 1 capital  ratio, which was 11 percent as of June 30, Edward Najarian, head of bank research at International Strategy &
Investment Group Inc., wrote in a note to clients today.  Cash Injection  The lender had $153.1 billion of Tier 1 capital at the end
of the second quarter. The cash injection won’t improve the Tier
1 common ratio, which was 8.23 percent, Najarian wrote.  “This investment certainly improves the perception of BAC
stock in the eyes of investors,” he wrote, referring to the
company by its stock ticker. It may be enough to address the
bank’s immediate capital needs and assuage regulators, he said.
“And if that is true, it is a clear win for the company and its
shareholders.”  The cost to protect against a default by Bank of America
plunged. Credit-default swaps on the company, which surged to a
record this week, dropped 45 basis points to 327.6 basis points
as of 4 p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA. The
contracts earlier traded as low as 275 basis points, prices from
broker Phoenix Partners Group show.  Berkshire, based in Omaha,  Nebraska , will buy cumulative
perpetual preferred stock that pays an annual dividend of 6
percent, plus warrants to buy 700 million shares at about $7.14
each, according to a statement from the companies.  Buffett’s Idea  Buffett conceived of the investment while in the bathtub
yesterday morning and had his assistant contact Moynihan’s for
the banker’s private number, CNBC reported, citing an interview
with Buffett, Berkshire’s 80-year-old CEO and chairman.  “Bank of America is a strong, well-led company, and I
called Brian to tell him I wanted to invest in it,” Buffett
said in a statement. “I am impressed with the profit-generating
abilities of this franchise, and that they are acting
aggressively to put their challenges behind them.”  Still, Moynihan cut a “bad deal for Bank of America
shareholders,” Bove said.  “It’s an excessive price to pay if, in fact, he didn’t
need capital,” he said. “There’s no way in hell that he can
make 6 percent after tax on any investment he can make.”  If Buffett exercised the warrants at today’s closing price
of 7.65 at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange, he would book
a $355 million gain. At one point today, that initial gain was
worth more than $1 billion.  ‘Dumb’ to Refuse  “Anybody would be dumb not to take those terms,” said
Keith Davis, an analyst at Farr, Miller &  Washington  LLC in
Washington. “I don’t think those terms would be available to
anyone else except Warren Buffett, because he’s able to give
that kind of boost to the stock.”  Buffett is taking “no risk at all,” said  Paul Miller , a
former examiner for the  Federal Reserve  Bank in Philadelphia and
an analyst with FBR Capital Markets in Arlington, Virginia.
“It’s a great deal for Berkshire Hathaway.”  Berkshire previously held the lender’s common stock for
three and a half years -- a span in which Bank of America lost
more than two-thirds of its value. Buffett’s firm bought 8.7
million shares in the second quarter of 2007, and sold its
remaining 5 million shares during the fourth quarter of 2010.  Buffett has publicly criticized Moynihan’s predecessor,
 Kenneth D. Lewis , for management missteps including the purchase
of Merrill Lynch & Co. in 2008, a deal struck the same day
Lehman filed for bankruptcy.  ‘Crazy Price’  Lewis “paid a crazy price, in my view,” Buffett said in
remarks released Feb. 10 by the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission. “He could have bought them the next day for
nothing.”  The bank took a $20.7 billion charge in the second quarter
as it covered costs to settle claims from institutional
investors that Countrywide used false or missing information to
create mortgages that later defaulted. Bank of America is also
trying to negotiate a settlement with state attorneys general,
who have been investigating foreclosure practices.  “It’s a political hot potato more than it’s a fundamental
hot potato,” said Josh Rosner, an analyst at Graham Fisher &
Co. in New York. “There’s no way to predict the outcomes of the
settlement talks with investors and the states.”  Selling Assets  To bolster capital, Moynihan agreed to sell the bank’s
Canadian card unit, with about $8.6 billion in loan balances,
and plans to leave the U.K. and Irish card markets. The bank has
been forced to write down credit-card and mortgage units
acquired by Lewis. Bank of America has sold more than 20 assets
or units since Moynihan took over last year.  For his Goldman Sachs investment, Buffett received a 10
percent annual dividend and a 10 percent premium when the bank
redeemed the stock. He also got warrants that gave him the right
to purchase $5 billion of common stock at a strike price of $115
at any point within five years.  Goldman Sachs also rose on the day Buffett made that
investment.  “It’s tremendously important from a psychological
standpoint for the market to see that Buffett’s willing to step
in,” said Davis, the Farr, Miller analyst.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  