-- 
Bank Commercial Paper Maturities Fall as European Funding Concern Rises

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-08-25T18:36:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/bank-commercial-paper-maturities-fall-as-european-funding-concern-rises.html
Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis is
straining banks’ ability to borrow for more than two weeks in
the commercial-paper market as  money-market funds  favor the
shortest-dated IOUs.  Since the end of July, U.S. financial commercial paper
issuance of 80 or more days to maturity has declined over 50
percent, according to Nomura Holdings Inc., which tracks a
rolling monthly average of daily Federal Reserve data. In the
same period, the average of issuance of one- to four-day
maturity commercial paper rose 52 percent, while sales of five-
to nine-day maturity debt increased 75 percent.  Concern that banks may be having more difficulty funding
themselves has risen over the last month as Europe’s fiscal
crisis worsens and risk aversion spreads to the U.S. Financial
institutions’ inability to fund their short-term operations
through the commercial paper market during the credit crisis of
2008 induced the Fed to offer support programs, including the
Commercial Paper Funding Facility in October of that year.  “These trends in financial commercial paper issuance,
toward shorter maturities, is a red flag of a possible
resurgence of dollar-funding pressures and broader systemic
concerns,” said  George Goncalves , head of interest-rate
strategy at Nomura, one of 20 primary dealers that trade
directly with the Fed. “Money market funds have been less
willing to purchase longer-term commercial paper from foreign
banks given the risks associated with the sovereign-debt crisis.
Given the lack of alternative investments, this has forced them
to keep some exposure to foreign issuers but only providing them
funding for much shorter terms.”  Money Funds  The Fed data best highlight trends in issuance of
commercial paper by foreign banks in the U.S. given that the
securities comprise about 40 percent of the market, up from 25
percent in 2008, according to Goncalves.  The top U.S. prime money-market mutual funds cut their
assets invested in securities issued by European banks last
month to the lowest level since 2008 as the region’s debt crisis
got worse, according to  Fitch Ratings . U.S. prime money fund
managers also reduced risk by shortening maturities with more
than 20 percent of funds’ investment in French banks’
certificates of deposits with maturities of seven days or fewer
at the end of July, a threefold increase compared with the end
of June, according to Fitch.  The rolling monthly average of 80 or more day maturity
financial commercial paper issuance declined to $8 billion from
$17 billion between July 31 and Aug. 19, according to Nomura’s
analysis of Fed data. The one- to four-day maturity paper rose
52 percent to $44 billion and the five- to nine-day maturity
sales increased 75 percent to $13.5 billion.  Fed Purchases  In the Commercial Paper Funding Facility program, the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York  in 2008 formed and funded a
special-purpose vehicle to purchase short-term debt directly
from issuers.  The 10 largest U.S. money funds eligible to purchase
corporate debt, with $658 billion in assets, had 47 percent of
their total holdings in securities issued by European banks as
of July 31, a Fitch report published on Aug. 22 said. That was
down from 48.7 percent as of the end of June.  A narrowing in the typical gap of the rate that banks issue
commercial paper at below where they say they lend to each other
as reported daily to the  British Bankers Association  for the
fixing of the dollar London interbank offered rate is also a
signal that some banks’ funding costs are increasing, according
to Jerome Schneider, head of the short-term strategies and money
markets desk at  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific
Investment Management Co.  ‘More Expensive’  “Bank’s commercial paper rates are rising faster than
their equivalent Libor submission rates, especially for
maturities 3-months and beyond,” Schneider said in an
interview. “This indicates that it is getting more expensive
for some banks to finance themselves as investors are demanding
more return to compensate for credit and liquidity premiums in
the current market. Some banks are even posting commercial-paper
rates above their Libor postings, which has historically not
been the case.”  The rate that London-based banks say they can borrow at for
three months in dollars rose to the highest in a year after
climbing for a 23rd straight day.  Three-month Libor for dollar loans rose to 0.319 percent
today, the highest level in a year, according the BBA. It was
set yesterday at 0.31428 percent and was at 0.24575 percent at
the end of June. That’s compares with 4.819 percent in October
2008, during the height of the credit crisis.  The rate on three-month financial commercial paper is
averaging 3.3 basis points below similar maturity Libor, down
from a 7 basis point gap at the start of July, according to bank
and BBA data tracked by Pimco.  The dollar Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks’ reluctance
to lend, widened to 23.50 basis points, from 22.73 basis points
yesterday. That’s the most since August 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  