-- 
Barcelona Meets AC Milan in Champions League Soccer as Madrid Faces Ajax

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-08-25T18:11:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/barcelona-meets-ac-milan-in-champions-league-madrid-faces-ajax.html
Barcelona and AC Milan, who’ve won
11 European Cup titles between them, will meet in the group
stage of soccer’s  Champions League .  Barcelona, which defeated Manchester United in last year’s
final for its fourth title, and seven-time winner Milan will be
joined in Group H by BATE Borisov and Viktoria Plzen as
determined by today’s draw in  Monaco .  Barcelona will try to become the first club to retain its
championship in  Europe ’s elite club competition since Milan in
1990. The competition was renamed the Champions League in 1992.  Real Madrid, which has won a record nine European Cups, is
in Group D with Lyon, four-time champion Ajax and Dinamo Zagreb.
Former winners Manchester United and Benfica are in Group C with
Basel and Romanian champion Otelul Galati.  “We’ve had great success the last few years and we’re
looking forward to it,”  Manchester United  Chief Executive
Officer David Gill, whose club has reached the final in three of
the past four seasons, said in an interview with Sky Sports.
“We’re comfortable with the draw we have.”  Chelsea will be joined in Group E by Valencia, Bayer
Leverkusen and Genk, with Arsenal, Marseille, Olympiacos and
German champion Borussia Dortmund comprising Group F.  “It’s just great to be here,” said Arsenal secretary
David Miles, whose club qualified for the group stage last night
by rallying to beat Udinese 2-1 in a playoff. “Most of the
cynics would have said last night we were on our way out.”  City Debut  Manchester City will make its first appearance in the
Champions League when it joins four-time winner Bayern Munich,
Villarreal and Napoli in Group A.  “It’s a fantastic group with four fantastic sides,” City
official Brian Marwood said. “We really believe we can go into
this competition and do well with the spirit that we have.”  Inter Milan , CSKA Moscow, Lille and Trabzonspor make up
Group B, with Porto, Shakhtar Donetsk, Zenit St Petersburg and
APOEL Nicosia in Group G.  Group play runs from Sept. 13 through Dec. 7 with the top
two teams in each advancing to the round of 16. The final will
be played May 19 in Munich. Last season’s 32 teams received a
minimum of 7.2 million euros ($10.3 million) each from
tournament organizer UEFA for participating.  Barcelona’s  Lionel Messi  was named the winner of the
inaugural UEFA Best Player in Europe Award following the draw.  The Argentine scored 53 goals last season, including 12 to
lead the Champions League, and beat out teammate  Xavi Hernandez 
and Real  Madrid ’s Cristiano Ronaldo in a poll of 53 journalists
representing each of European soccer’s member associations.  “It’s an honor to be so successful and to come up with the
goods at the right time,” Messi said in comments on UEFA’s
website. “Thanks to my teammates for helping me achieve this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 