-- 
Barry Bonds Asks Judge to Throw Out Conviction or Order New Trial

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-08-25T23:54:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/barry-bonds-asks-judge-to-toss-obstruction-conviction-or-order-new-trial.html
Lawyers for  Barry Bonds ,  Major
League Baseball ’s home-run record holder, asked a federal judge
to throw out his conviction for obstructing a federal probe of
steroid use by professional athletes or order a new trial.  There was no crime in the slugger’s 146-word answer to a
grand jury about whether his trainer ever gave him anything that
required an injection with a syringe, in which he spoke about
being a “celebrity child” who didn’t “get into other people’s
business,” his lawyers told U.S. District Judge Susan Illston
at a hearing today in San Francisco.  Dennis Riordan, Bonds’s attorney, said the former San
Francisco Giants outfielder took about 75 seconds to respond to
prosecutors’ direct question and eventually answered “no.” He
said upholding the conviction would mean that a defendant could
face five years in prison simply by taking 75 seconds to provide
a direct answer to the grand jury.  “It’s really preposterous to say there was evasion,”
Riordan told Illston, who ended the hearing without issuing a
ruling.  Bonds, 47, was convicted in April by a federal jury in  San
Francisco  of obstructing a U.S. probe of steroid use by
professional athletes. In a response of about 130 words, Bonds
didn’t say yes or no when asked if his trainer  Greg Anderson 
ever game him anything “that required a syringe to inject
yourself with.”  ‘One Doctor’  He responded that he “only had one doctor touch me” and
he didn’t talk baseball with his trainer or “get into other
people’s business.” Bonds said that’s what kept his friendship
with Anderson going.  “I became a celebrity child with a famous father,” Bonds
told the grand jury, referring to his father,  Bobby Bonds , a
three-time All-Star who played for eight teams including the
Giants and the  New York Yankees . “I just don’t get into other
people’s business because of my father’s situation, you see.”  Bonds could have answered yes or no, “but instead went on
this exploration of his relationship with Greg Anderson” and
engaged in “rambling that the jury found was given to evade,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney Merry Jean Chan said at today’s hearing.  Bonds’s eventual answer of “no” to the question was
untruthful “in light of all the evidence at trial,” including
testimony from his former personal shopper who said she saw
Bonds receiving an injection from Anderson, said Chan.  ‘Totality’ of Evidence  Riordan said other evidence shouldn’t be weighed in
deciding whether Bonds’s answer to the specific question about a
syringe injection was evasive. Illston disagreed.  “I’m obliged to view the totality of the evidence,”
Illston told Riordan. “I don’t think it’s fair to say, just
focus on the one statement. It seems to me we need to look at
this in the context of all the evidence in this trial.”  Jurors were unable to agree on whether Bonds lied when he
told a grand jury in 2003 that he didn’t knowingly take
steroids, didn’t take human growth hormone and didn’t receive
injections by Anderson. A mistrial was declared on those counts.  Bonds broke  Hank Aaron ’s record of 755 career home runs in
August 2007. He was indicted in November of that year for
allegedly lying to a 2003 grand jury about steroids use. He was
the first Major League ballplayer to be charged in a years-long
federal probe of steroid use in professional sports.  Bonds’s attorneys said at trial that he truthfully
testified that he received performance-enhancing substances from
Anderson without knowing what they were because the drugs were
new at the time and Anderson told him one was flaxseed oil.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  