-- 
Batman Wows London, Trader Enters Hell, ‘South Pacific’ Washout

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-08-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/batman-wows-london-trader-enters-hell-south-pacific-is-washout-review.html
London  theater used to be quiet in
August. What happened? A spectacular “Batman Live,” a Broadway
transfer of “South Pacific” and a new “Don Giovanni” opened
this week. Did someone cancel holiday for showpeople?  In the case of  Batman , the performers are working hard for
their summer cash. They fly on harnesses, twirl on trapezes, and
do unlikely backflips while punching villains on the jaw.
Designer Es Devlin recreates the gothic comic-book visuals of
Gotham City. The show is currently playing at the  02 Arena  and
looks terrific.  There are some wonderful coups de theatre. A giant model
appears of the head of Batman’s chief nemesis the Joker, looking
creepy. Then it begins to wriggle, and looks even creepier. It’s
actually made up of acrobats. Very neat.  The story, such as it is, is an excuse for a series of
aerial stunts and set pieces. It involves Dick Grayson (Kamran
Darabi-Ford) trying to get revenge for the murder of his circus-
performer parents with the help of caped crusader Batman (Sam
Heughan). A host of villains including the Penguin, Poison Ivy
and the Riddler appear alongside the Joker, for no clear reason.  No matter. It’s a supersized arena show for the hotdog and
cola crowd, not “Uncle Vanya.” If the plot doesn’t bear
scrutiny, there’s plenty to keep the eye entertained. Catwoman
looks hot in her slinky leather outfit. The Batmobile, designed
by Formula One supremo Gordon Murray, is a great boys-with-toys
piece of kit. The Joker’s balloon ride over Gotham has real wow-
factor. And all for a top price ticket of 35 pounds ($57.28).  Director Anthony Van Laast works hard to keep it rattling
along, even when the plot grinds to a halt for another display
of aerialist acrobatics. It’s  touring  the U.K. until October,
and then heads to  North America  next year. Ker-pow! Rating: ***.  ‘South Pacific’  A show making the reverse journey from the  Lincoln Center 
to the Barbican is Rogers and Hammerstein’s “ South Pacific ,”
directed by Bartlett Sher. It could have saved itself the
trouble. Whatever magic it had in 2008  New York , where it
garnered awards, has evaporated in its journey across the Pond.  Perhaps the story of a racist young woman learning to
accept her mixed-heritage stepchildren had particular resonance
with the presidential campaign. Perhaps the World War II setting
hit a nerve with U.S. military campaigns. I’m guessing.  Unenchanted Evening  In London, the bubble has burst. Despite the irresistible
tunes such as “There Is Nothing Like a Dame” and “Bali Hai.”
It’s more like “Unenchanted Evening,” “Unhappy Talk” and
“Wash That Show Right Out of My Hair.”  It doesn’t help that it looks cheap. A Pacific blue
backcloth has wrinkles. A plastic palm tree sits atop a prop
pile of sand which doesn’t quite meet the floor.  Poor Samantha Womack (Nellie) broke her toe just before
press night. She bravely carried on and sang sweetly, as did
Paulo Szot as Emile. With the cracked foot, it was
understandable why there wasn’t much spark between them.  It was less understandable why the other dance routines
lacked fizz, or why the first act came in at a Wagnerian 1 hour
40 minutes. The melodies are fantastic, and the leads competent.
It’s not enough. “South Pacific” can head back west. Rating:
**.  ‘ Don Giovanni ’  OperaUpClose  won an Olivier Award last year for its
innovative production of “ La Boheme .” Director and translator
Robin Norton-Hale is continuing the experiments with a new “Don
Giovanni,” set in contemporary London.  There are some good things in the small-scale show. Norton-
Hale has sensibly cut it to 2 hours 15 minutes. She has the
smart idea that Johnny (Don Giovanni) is a jaded city trader out
to get nihilistic kicks. She’s also worked hard to create
plausible motivations for some weaker bits of the plot, and the
overture intriguingly mixes live piano and electronics.  It falters about halfway through. The electronic parts
aren’t fully integrated and feel half-hearted. The creaky
“identity-swap” plot device of Act 2 isn’t as carefully
directed as the earlier parts. The hellfire ending lacks oomph.  The show is triple cast. I saw promising newcomer Marc
Callahan as Johnny, and Fleur Bray, Rosalind Coad and Emily-Jane
Thomas (all excellent) as the women in his life. Not quite a
hit. Not quite a miss either. Rating: **.  “Batman Live” is at the 02 Arena, Peninsula Sq., SE10
0DX, until Sept. 4, and then on tour. Information:
 http://www.theo2.co.uk  or  http://www.batmanlive.com .  “South Pacific” is at the Barbican Centre, Silk Street,
EC2Y 8DS, until Oct. 1. Information:  http://www.barbican.org.uk   “Don Giovanni” is at the Soho Theatre, 21 Dean Street,
W1D 3NE, until Sept. 17. Information: +44-20-7478-0100,
 http://www.sohotheatre.com .  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or. 