-- 
BofA Says Berkshire Will Invest $5 Billion

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-08-25T14:46:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/berkshire-hathaway-to-invest-5-billion-in-bank-of-america-shares-surge.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
U.S. lender, said  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. will
invest $5 billion to bolster the company after losses tied to
subprime mortgages drained capital. Bank of America surged in
New York trading.  Berkshire will get cumulative perpetual preferred stock
paying a 6 percent dividend, the Charlotte, North Carolina-based
bank said today in a statement. Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire
also gets warrants to buy 700 million shares at $7.14 each.  The deal aids Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, who is cutting jobs and selling assets to help
restore investors’ confidence. Bank of America lost almost half
its value on the New York Stock Exchange this year through
yesterday as investors speculated the lender would have to
access the public markets to raise capital.  “This is a tremendous vote of confidence in the U.S.
banking industry as well as Bank of America,” said Anthony Polini, an analyst with Raymond James Financial Inc. “Bank of
America was being punished or victimized as one of the
weakest U.S. banks that could be in financial distress. For
Buffett to step up like this for BofA has implications for all
the other banks.”  The lender jumped $1.03, or 15 percent, to $8.02 in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading at 10:25 a.m., leading the
KBW Bank Index higher. Berkshire fell less than 0.1 percent.  ‘Acting Aggressively’  Buffett conceived of the investment while in the bathtub
yesterday morning and had his assistant contact Moynihan’s to
get the banker’s private number, CNBC reported, citing an
interview with Buffett.  “Bank of America is a strong, well-led company, and I
called Brian to tell him I wanted to invest,” Buffett said in
the statement. “I am impressed with the profit-generating
abilities of this franchise, and that they are acting
aggressively to put their challenges behind them.”  Berkshire’s warrants may be exercised at any time in a 10-
year period, according to the statement. Bank of America can
redeem the preferred stock at any time for a 5 percent premium.  Buffett helped prop up Goldman Sachs Group Inc. during the
credit crisis in 2008 with a $5 billion investment that was
repaid this year. The Goldman Sachs investment paid a 10 percent
dividend. Berkshire is the largest stock investor in  Wells Fargo
& Co ., the only U.S. home lender larger than Bank of America.  ‘Plenty Profitable’  Banking can “still be plenty profitable,” Buffett told
Bloomberg Television’s Betty Liu on the “In the Loop”
program on July 8.  The cost to protect against a default by Bank of America
plunged. Credit-default swaps on the bank, which surged to a
record this week, dropped 65 basis points to 308 basis points as
of 10:43 a.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA.  Bank of America’s trading floor in New York erupted in
cheers and applause when the news was announced this morning,
said a person at the company who witnessed the reaction but who
wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Moynihan agreed to sell the bank’s Canadian card unit, with
about $8.6 billion in loan balances, and plans to leave the U.K.
and Irish card markets, Bank of America said this month. The
bank has been forced to write down credit-card and mortgage
units acquired by Moynihan’s predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis . Bank
of America has sold more than 20 assets or units since Moynihan
took over last year.  Job Cuts  The bank will eliminate about 3,500 jobs this quarter to
focus “on what we can control” amid market turmoil, Moynihan
said last week. Some workers already were informed of the
dismissals, which are in addition to 2,500 reductions made this
year, Moynihan said in a memo to senior managers.  Berkshire sold a stake in Bank of America last year and
Buffett has publicly criticized Lewis, for missteps including
the purchase of Merrill Lynch & Co., a deal struck the same day
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy in 2008.  Lewis “paid a crazy price, in my view,” Buffett said in
remarks released Feb. 10 by the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission. “He could have bought them the next day for
nothing.” Moynihan became CEO early last year.  While the company suffered from errors, its reach among
consumers are a source of strength, Buffett told CNBC in 2009.  “One thing about Bank of America,” Buffett said. “It has
a wonderful deposit-gathering system.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  