-- 
Bernanke Signaling No QE Backed by Data From Prices to Freight

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-08-25T13:43:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/bernanke-signaling-no-qe-backed-by-data-from-prices-to-freight.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  tomorrow may disappoint stock investors betting on a
commitment to step up stimulus. He has little choice, given
rising consumer prices and a U.S. economy that is still growing.  Gasoline costs are 33 percent higher, consumer inflation is
twice as fast and inflation expectations are above levels since
Bernanke signaled more easing a year ago at the annual Fed
symposium in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming . While the U.S. expansion has
slowed, the Chicago Fed’s index of 85 economic indicators
improved in July for a third month on gains in production.  Policy makers, who said Aug. 9 they’ll use additional tools
“as appropriate,” probably don’t expect a recession or rapid
disinflation, making a signal of bond buying premature, said
Roberto Perli, managing director at International Strategy &
Investment Group in Washington. Instead, Bernanke will probably
detail options for further stimulus and clarify how much the
Fed’s reduction in its outlook this month stems from long-term
obstacles to growth, said  Keith Hembre , a former Fed researcher.  “Conditions are substantially different today” compared
with last year, especially inflation, said Hembre, chief
economist and investment strategist in Minneapolis at Nuveen
Asset Management, which oversees about $212 billion. “First and
foremost, that would be the reason I think that any sort of
major asset purchase announcement is unlikely,” he said.  Shipping volume at trucking companies, a barometer of the
broader economy, was up 11 percent last month from a year
earlier, according to Cass Information Systems. Echo Global
Logistics Inc., a Chicago-based provider of freight services,
said last month it’s “very optimistic about continued growth in
the second half.”  Deflation Threat  The threat of deflation has subsided, with the Labor
Department’s consumer price index, minus food and energy, rising
1.8 percent for the 12 months ending July. It increased at a 0.9
percent 12-month rate in July 2010 before Bernanke’s  Jackson
Hole  speech last year.  A measure of inflation expectations watched by the Fed is
showing that traders see annual price increases of 2.77 percent
starting in five years, compared with 2.22 percent a year ago.  Even with the 12 percent plunge in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index over the past month, U.S. stocks are still up 12
percent from their level on the eve of Bernanke’s speech last
year, when they had gained only 1.6 percent from Aug. 27, 2009.  “The stock market is going to be disappointed Friday
morning,” Rob Dugger, managing partner at Hanover Investment
Group LLC and a regular participant at the Jackson Hole
conference, said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays
Advantage.”  ‘Safely to Shore’  “It’s not going to get that kind of life-buoy thrown out
over the water so that it can grab hold and swim safely to
shore,” he said.  A government report today signaled that excluding a Verizon
Communications Inc. labor dispute, companies are slowing the
pace of firings. The number of people continuing to receive
jobless benefits dropped by 80,000 in the week ended Aug. 13 to
3.64 million, the fewest since September 2008.  Bernanke’s speech, entitled “Near- and Long-Term Prospects
for the  U.S. Economy ,” is part of an annual symposium hosted by
the Kansas City Fed since 1982 beside the Teton mountains.  Academics and central bank officials are gathering to
consider the theme, “Achieving Maximum Long-Run Growth.” They
will hear presentations by Esther Duflo, a  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  professor, Dani Rodrik, a Harvard
University professor, and European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet, who has attended the conference during five of
the past six years.  Portfolio Weight  Bernanke, 57, may stress the option of trying to reduce
long-run borrowing costs by giving more weight in the Fed’s
portfolio to longer-term securities, Hembre said.  “Expectations ahead of the meeting were quite high at the
beginning of this week for some kind of firm policy statement,
but I think that’s very unlikely,” said John Kattar, chief
investment officer at Eastern Investment Advisors in  Boston ,
which manages $1.7 billion.  The Fed chief is constrained from signaling more easing by
the fact that the Fed’s Aug. 9 statement already leaned toward
more stimulus and dissenting votes from three policy makers
limit his ability to articulate a new strategy, Dugger said.
Just before Bernanke’s speech a year ago, the Fed was in a more
neutral stance and he faced only one dissenter.  “The bar is high on additional security purchases,” said
James Dunigan, chief investment officer in Philadelphia for PNC
Wealth Management, which oversees $109 billion. He doesn’t see a
need for more quantitative easing, estimating the odds of a
recession as 20 percent to 30 percent.  No More Stimulus  “Those who think we’re getting an announcement of
additional stimulus from the Fed will be disappointed,” Dunigan
said.  Investors are focused on the U.S. central bank because it
is one of the few policy levers left in Washington. U.S.
lawmakers’ agreement this month to raise the debt limit includes
$917 billion in spending cuts over the next decade and calls for
a joint committee to find as much as $1.5 trillion more by Nov.
23. If the panel is unable to agree on a plan or if its
recommendations are rejected by Congress before year’s end, an
automatic $1.2 trillion in across-the-board reductions would
begin in January 2013.  “We have created a very bad precedent,” said Jim Paulsen,
chief investment strategist for Wells Capital Management in
 Minneapolis . “The financial markets whine and policy officials
jump. The Fed has become the Pavlov’s dog of the stock market,
and this is a horrible precedent for policy makers.”  Fed Aims  Some data are showing little indication of deflation or a
relapse into recession since the expansion resumed in mid-2009.
Inflation expectations, as measured by the breakeven rate for
10-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, were 2.04
percentage points yesterday, up from 1.57 percent a year ago.
The Fed aims for long-run inflation ranging from about 1.7
percent to 2 percent.  “I would not expect Bernanke to add anything substantial to
what the FOMC already said,” said Perli, who worked in the
Fed’s Division of Monetary Affairs from 2002 to 2010. “The
forecast that they have has come down for sure, but probably
doesn’t justify additional action,” Perli said. “They are
going to wait and see how the data play out.”  Bernanke may just review in detail what’s available in the
Fed’s monetary policy toolkit, said  Alan Ruskin , global head of
Group-of-10 foreign exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. in  New York .  “I don’t think he will do more than outline future policy
options,” Ruskin said. “Bernanke has tended to be preemptive
and shown some capacity to pull a rabbit out of the hat. There
are some people who may feel he is still a magician. That is a
minority.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  