-- 
Bloomberg Agrees to Buy Bureau of National Affairs for About $990 Million

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-08-25T17:20:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/bloomberg-agrees-to-buy-bureau-of-national-affairs-for-about-990-million.html
Bloomberg LP, the closely held news
and financial information provider, agreed to buy The Bureau of
National Affairs Inc. for about $990 million to add legal, tax
and regulatory research and analysis.  BNA  shareholders, who are current and former employees,
will get $39.50 a share in cash in a transaction that is
projected to be completed this year, New York-based Bloomberg
said in a statement today.  The deal is part of Bloomberg’s expansion into new
businesses to add products to the company’s terminal, a data hub
used by traders and executives, and add to new titles for its
news group. In 2009, Bloomberg acquired Businessweek magazine
and New Energy Finance, which provides analysis on clean energy
sources.  BNA, which publishes the Daily Labor Report and U.S. Law
Week, will “significantly grow Bloomberg’s presence in
 Washington ” and its research will contribute to coverage and
analysis of employment, health care, labor, accounting,
intellectual property and telecommunications, Bloomberg said.  The tender offer will begin by Sept. 8 and is subject to
regulatory approval. BNA will be operated as a stand-alone
subsidiary, Bloomberg said in the statement.  Bloomberg’s competitors include  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)  and
 Reed Elsevier Plc (REL) , owner of the LexisNexis database. Bloomberg
LP is the parent of Bloomberg News.  Washington Focus  BNA, founded in 1929 and with its headquarters in
Arlington,  Virginia , has more than 350 news services with
customers that include attorneys, accountants, lobbyists and
government administrators.  The company, which reported 2010 revenue of $331 million,
has almost 1,500 employees. They include more than 600
reporters, lawyers and editors working in the Washington D.C.
area, according to the company’s website. Bloomberg employs more
than 13,600 people.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Geller & Co. are advising
Bloomberg on the transaction. Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP is
legal adviser.  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  is BNA’s financial
adviser, while Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP is
providing legal advice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  