-- 
Bonds Are Most Expensive Since Lehman Collapse Versus Stocks: Japan Credit

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-08-26T07:17:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/bonds-are-most-expensive-since-lehman-collapse-versus-stocks-japan-credit.html
Japanese bonds are the most
expensive relative to local shares since the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. amid growing doubts that companies’
earnings will meet analysts’ forecasts.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average’s earnings yield, or estimated
net income per share divided by the stock price, was 6.03
percentage points more than  Japan ’s 10-year bond yield on Aug.
22, the most since October 2008, according to Bloomberg data.
The similar spread in the U.S. reached 6.82 percentage points on
Aug. 19, a level unseen since December 2008.  Analysts estimate a more than 10 percent increase in
corporate profit each year for the next two years for companies
in the Nikkei index even as Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Citigroup Inc. have cut growth forecasts for the
U.S., Japan’s second-biggest export market after  China . Bonds
have climbed globally since the  Federal Reserve  pledged this
month to keep interest rates at a record low through mid-2013.  “People in the stock market tend to have a bullish outlook
mixed with a bit of wishful thinking,” said  Masaru Hamasaki ,
who helps oversee the equivalent of $24 billion as chief
strategist at Toyota Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “There’s a
bias in the bond market that yields will stay low regardless of
how the economy performs.”  Companies included in the Nikkei are projected to post a 14
percent increase in earnings per share this fiscal year,
followed by a 15 percent gain next year, analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show. Of the 220 stocks that have analyst
coverage, only 20 have recommendations to sell compared to 186
to buy, the consensus ratings compiled by Bloomberg show.  Slowing U.S. Economy  Manufacturing in  New York  contracted for a third month,
while in Philadelphia it shrank by the most since March 2009,
Fed surveys showed this month. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan index of consumer sentiment plunged to the lowest since
1980.  U.S. gross domestic product may have grown at a 1.1 percent
annual pace in the April-to-June quarter, down from the 1.3
percent projected last month, according to the median estimate
of economists before the Commerce Department data today. Goldman
last week lowered the U.S. growth forecast for this year to 1.5
percent from 1.7 percent.  “The slowdown in the U.S will damage corporate earnings in
Japan, which will change the entire picture. The stock market is
falling because it already expects that,” said  Norihiro Fujito ,
a senior investment strategist in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. “Counting on valuations is like staring
at the rear-view mirror while driving a car.”  Jackson Hole   Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to speak today at
the bank’s annual symposium in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming . Ten-year
Treasury yields slid to a record on Aug. 18 on prospects that
the slowing economy will continue to prevent the U.S. central
bank from tightening monetary policy.  The yen has climbed 6.5 percent over the past three months
versus its U.S. counterpart and touched a post-World War II
record of 75.95 per dollar on Aug. 19. A stronger yen makes
Japanese-made products costlier overseas and reduces the value
of overseas sales by the nation’s exporters when repatriated.  Japan’s large manufacturers base their business plans for
this fiscal year on the assumption that the yen will average
82.59 per dollar, according to the  Bank of Japan ’s quarterly
 Tankan survey  released on July 1.  Decreasing Demand  “The negative influence from foreign exchange will be
amplified by a global drop in demand for Japanese products,”
said Mitsubishi UFJ’s Fujito. “The slump in exporters’ shares
clearly reflects that.”  The Nikkei 225 has lost 11 percent in August, set for its
worst month since May 2010. Sony Corp., an electronics maker
that gets 67 percent of its revenue outside the country, sank to
the lowest level since February 2009 on Aug. 24. Japan’s
government debt has returned 0.2 percent to investors this
month, an index compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch
showed.  Japan’s economy slipped into its third recession in a
decade after a record earthquake and subsequent tsunami hit the
country on March 11, leaving more than 20,000 dead or missing.
The Bank of Japan has since expanded its asset-purchase fund
that buys  government bonds , corporate debt and stock funds. The
BOJ left benchmark interest rates unchanged on Aug. 4 at a range
of between zero and 0.1 percent.  BOJ’s Easing Options  “There’s an 80 to 90 percent chance that the BOJ will ease
policy further by the end of September,” said  Kazuhiko Sano ,
chief debt strategist at Tokai  Tokyo  Securities Co., one of the
25 primary dealers obliged to bid at government debt sales.
“Three steps that the BOJ may take are: purchasing longer-
maturity government bonds, abolishing interest on banks’
deposits at the BOJ and lowering benchmark rates.”  Banks earn 0.1 percent interest on funds parked at their
BOJ accounts that exceed the legal requirement. The central bank
will hold a policy meeting on Sept. 7.  Japan’s benchmark 10-year debt yields 1.035 percent, the
second-lowest after  Switzerland  among the 32 bond markets
tracked by Bloomberg, and compared with 2.23 percent for
similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries.  The Nikkei 225 is 77 percent below its peak in December
1989, as Japan’s deflation-mired economy has barely grown for
the past two decades. The BOJ has kept its benchmark  interest
rates  at or below 1 percent since 1995 to stimulate the economy.  “Japan’s bond yields won’t rise very much, because this
country’s economy doesn’t grow,” said Tokai Tokyo’s Sano.
“Economic growth comes from people’s aspiration to a luxurious
life. With a few exceptions, most people here no longer have
such dreams.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 