-- 
Bond Market Slams Shut With Spreads Widest in 10 Months: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-08-26T05:18:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/bond-market-slams-shut-with-spreads-widest-in-10-months-australia-credit.html
The market for new bond sales in
Australia by non-financial companies has frozen as Europe’s debt
crisis and concern the global economy is faltering drives yield
premiums to a 10-month high.  There hasn’t been an offering of such debt since a local
unit of Volkswagen AG sold A$150 million ($157 million) of notes
on July 8, compared with more than $46 billion of investment-
grade non-financial bonds offered in the U.S. since then, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Australia’s slowest third quarter
since 2008 follows A$4.6 billion of issuance in the six months
to June 30 as  Westfield Retail Trust (WRT)  and Woolworths Ltd. led the
busiest first half since 2007, the data show.  “We’re in a much higher volatility environment and unless
issuers are desperate, there’s no reason to pay up to issue
right now,” said David Carruthers, a senior  money manager  at
AMP Capital Investors Ltd. in Sydney, which has about A$30
billion of fixed-income assets under management. “I think there
would be demand for new deals but it’s not going to be as
strong, because investors are being more cautious about how they
spend their money.”  Yields on Australian non-financial corporate bonds widened
22 basis points this month to 227 basis points more than
government debt on Aug. 19, the highest level since Oct. 12 and
54 basis points more than the global average, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Australian Industrial Index shows. The  Reserve
Bank  of Australia cut its 2011 growth forecast this month as
 consumer confidence  dropped to a two-year low and retail sales
slumped, while Europe’s fiscal crisis worsened and unemployment
in the U.S. held above 9 percent.  Westfield, Woolworths  Bonds sold by Westfield Retail, a Sydney-based shopping
mall owner, are the worst performing in the Australian
Industrial Index this month, with spreads widening 32 basis
points to 238.  The yield premium on Woolworths’ A$500 million of 6.75
percent bonds due in March 2016 to the swap rate has increased
34 basis points this month to 115, according to Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. prices. The notes were sold at a 105
basis-point spread in March, Bloomberg data show.  The cost of insuring Australian corporate bonds from non-
payment surged 51 basis points in August to 169.8 yesterday
after touching 176.2 on Aug. 24, CMA prices show. That was the
highest level for the Markit iTraxx  Australia  index of credit-
default swaps on 25 of the nation’s biggest companies since July
2009, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index rose
30.4 basis points to 126.3 this month, CMA prices show.  Retail Sales  Australian retail sales unexpectedly declined in June for a
second month, the first back-to-back fall since July 2009, the
statistics bureau said Aug. 3. Household spending accounts for
about half the nation’s gross domestic product.  Workers face as many as 100,000 job losses and rising
unemployment that will force the central bank to cut  interest
rates  by November, Bank of America Merrill Lynch strategists
said Aug. 22. There’s a 89 percent chance that RBA Governor
 Glenn Stevens  will lower the benchmark borrowing rate by 100
basis points, or 1 percentage point, by year-end, cash-rate
futures show.  Borrowing Costs  The rate stands at 4.75 percent, the highest in the
developed world, after Stevens raised borrowing costs seven
times beginning October 2009 to help control price pressures
from a mining boom.  The central bank forecast Aug. 5 that growth in 2011 will
average 2 percent, down from its May 6 estimate of 3.25 percent.
The economy will expand 4.5 percent in 2012, faster than the
prior estimate of 4.25 percent, it said.  The gap between yields on Australian  government bonds  and
inflation-indexed notes shows investors estimate consumer-price
gains to average 2.59 percent for the next five years, the
highest inflation expectations among eight developed markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  Weaker consumer confidence driven by the rout in global
financial markets will help ease inflation pressures, making it
prudent to “sit still” on interest rates, Stevens told a
parliamentary committee today in  Melbourne .  The benchmark 10-year government bond yield is on course to
rise this week for the first time in five weeks as equity
markets rallied amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  will act to
bolster the world’s biggest economy. The securities yielded 4.39
basis points at 2:17 p.m. today, or 216 basis points more than
Treasuries.  ‘Dangerously Close’  Central bankers are meeting this week in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming , where last year Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  hinted at
a second round of bond purchases, or quantitative easing.  Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. trimmed forecasts
for U.S. growth last week, while Morgan Stanley cut its estimate
for 2011 global expansion, saying the U.S. and  Europe  are
“dangerously close to recession.”  European Union lawmakers will hear from EU finance chiefs
including  Jean-Claude Trichet  and Olli Rehn next week about
steps to manage the euro-area debt crisis. Unprecedented
government and European Central Bank bailouts have failed to
stamp out debt concerns in the region that began in  Greece 
almost two years ago and rattled markets in top-rated  France 
earlier this month.  Relative yields on European industrial debt increased 53
basis points to 187 this month, while spreads on U.S. notes
widened 46 basis points to 186, the indexes show. The Australian
debt has returned 1.5 percent month to date, compared with 0.5
percent for U.S. industrial bonds and a loss of 0.1 percent on
the European notes.  Australia’s 200 biggest listed companies have increased
cash piles by more than 50 percent in the past year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BHP, Telstra  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company, said
Aug. 24 that fiscal second-half profit rose to a record $13.1
billion, beating analyst estimates, after prices of copper,  iron
ore  and coal reached all-time highs on demand from  China .  Telstra Corp., Australia’s largest telephone company,
posted second-half earnings that beat analysts’ estimates on
Aug. 11 after winning mobile customers and cutting operating
costs and executive jobs.  Telstra added A$150 million to an existing line of bonds
due in July 2020 in May, paying 160 basis points more than the
swap rate, according to a statement at the time. The notes
yielded a 186 basis-point spread at 2:21 p.m. today, according
to ANZ Bank prices.  “Issuance is not a question of creditworthiness, it’s a
question of price, which I expect to stabilize as offshore
markets calm down over coming weeks,” said Ed Waters, a Sydney-
based debt capital markets director at ANZ Bank. “Investors are
very positive on Australian corporate debt and the quality of
Australian companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 