-- 
Brazil’s Local-Currency Credit Rating Outlook Raised to Positive by S&P

-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-08-25T20:29:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/brazil-s-local-currency-credit-rating-outlook-raised-to-positive-by-s-p.html
Brazil ’s local-currency credit
rating is being reviewed for an upgrade by  Standard & Poor’s ,
which cited the country’s economic stability.  The rating was affirmed at BBB+, the third-lowest
investment grade, S&P said today in a statement. S&P also kept
the positive outlook for Brazil’s BBB- foreign-currency rating,
the lowest investment grade.  “The positive outlook reflects the growing likelihood that
the factors supporting Brazil’s macroeconomic stability will
continue to strengthen in coming years,” S&P said.  Developing nations including the  Czech Republic  and the
 Philippines  were upgraded in the past three months on improved
economic and fiscal outlooks. In Brazil, the government’s net
debt fell to the equivalent of 39.7 percent of gross domestic
product in June from 48 percent at the end of 2005, showing an
increased capacity to repay debt.  “Good long-term growth prospects -- combined with
improving external liquidity and deepening local capital markets
-- could bolster the government’s capacity to manage sudden
adverse changes in global economic conditions,” S&P said in the
statement.  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff , who took office Jan. 1,
pledged to cut this year’s budget by 50.7 billion reais ($32
billion) to help slow inflation.  Latin America ’s largest economy
will grow 3.8 percent this year, according to a central bank
survey of economists, after expanding 7.5 percent in 2010, the
fastest pace in more than two decades.  Bond Yields  Yields on Brazil’s real-denominated bond due in 2021 fell
for the first time in five days, dropping one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 11.97 percent as of 3:36 p.m. New York
time. The real gained 0.2 percent to 1.6103 per dollar, the
third best performer among emerging-market currencies today.  S&P lifted the outlook of Brazil’s foreign debt to positive
on May 23. Moody’s Investors Service raised the country’s
ranking to Baa2, the second-lowest investment grade, on June 20,
two months after  Fitch Ratings  increased its grade to an
equivalent of BBB.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries tumbled to 202 basis points
yesterday, from 459 at the end of 2003, according to JPMorgan.  Local-currency debt of developing nations rallied this
month, sending yields to a nine-month low of 6.31 percent on
Aug. 22, according to data compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  