-- 
Brown Seeks California Sales-Tax Cut on Manufacturing Gear to Spur Jobs

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-08-25T20:42:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/brown-seeks-california-sales-tax-cut-manufacturing-equipment.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown 
unveiled measures to spur  job creation , including legislation to
curb taxes on manufacturers such as  Boeing Co. (BA)  while dropping a
corporate tax break he said pushes jobs out of state.  Under the proposal, the state would exempt start-ups from
paying sales taxes on purchases of manufacturing equipment,
while lowering the levy by 3 percentage points to 0.9 percent
for existing companies. The cut would take about $1 billion from
state revenue annually. To pay for it, Brown would end an option
letting companies base their taxes solely on California sales
and make applying a single-sales factor levy mandatory.  “We must do more to build economic momentum,” Brown, a
73-year-old Democrat, said today in a statement.  Current state  tax policy  is “outrageous and perverse,”
the governor told reporters in the statehouse in  Sacramento . He
was joined by Andrea Jackson, vice president of government
affairs for  Genentech  Inc., who said her company built a $450
million plant in  Oregon  partly because it has a single-sales
factor tax system. The move lightened the biotechnology firm’s
California tax burden without increasing it in Oregon, she said.  “It’s bad policy,” Jackson said of the Golden State’s
current levy system, which lets companies pick one of two tax
methods to produce the lowest amount owed. “It incentivizes
building out of state. Why wouldn’t California want to make the
tax policy solid for building in California?”  Genentech, a unit of Basel, Switzerland-based  Roche Holding
AG (ROG) , is based in South San Francisco.  Current System  Under current law, some California companies can choose
between a formula that bases 50 percent of taxes on California
sales, while the remaining half is split between in-state
property and total sales, according to a Finance Department fact
sheet. Those businesses can opt instead to base their payments
solely on sales. Brown would end that option.  No Republicans are likely to support the governor’s
proposals, according to the party’s leader in the Assembly,
 Connie Conway  of Tulare.  “We see it as a tax, a fee, an additional burden,” Conway
said in an interview. “It takes away an incentive that’s been
offered to businesses.”  The proposals from Brown are aimed at reducing  California ’s
jobless rate, which climbed to 12 percent last month, the
second-highest level in the U.S. after  Nevada . The state
unemployment rate was 11.8 percent in June, compared with 9.2
percent nationwide. The U.S. figure declined to 9.1 percent last
month, as California joblessness increased.  Change Sought Earlier  When Brown  unveiled  his fiscal 2012 budget proposal in
January, he sought to make the single-sales factor levy
mandatory, ending the choice companies have now. The change is
projected to raise about $1 billion a year.  In 2009, lawmakers extended that optional system for
companies as part of a budget deal to temporarily raise sales
taxes and vehicle-registration fees. Previously, corporate taxes
were based on sales, workforce and property in California.  “I believe this was an outrageous, unjustified tax break
that very few people including the governor knew what the hell
they were doing,” Brown said today.  Republicans Needed  Applying the single-sales factor measure would require
passage by a two-thirds vote of the Legislature, meaning Brown
would need to win over at least two Republicans in both the
Assembly and Senate. The party’s lawmakers opposed the change
when Brown included it in his budget proposal in January.  “This proposal will create in-state manufacturing,” said
Assembly Speaker John A. Perez, a Los Angeles Democrat. With the
budget completed, he said lawmakers can move forward “without
getting bogged down by budgetary rhetoric and dogma.”  Brown also wants to expand eligibility for a small-business
tax credit to include companies with as many as 50 workers and
boost it to $4,000 from $3,000 for each new hire. To encourage
immediate hiring, the changes would expire at the end of 2013.  Brown was joined by representatives of Boeing, the Chicago-
based aircraft manufacturer,  Abbott Park , Illinois-based  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT) , and  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , an electric-car maker based
in  Palo Alto , California.  “We appreciate that the governor is focusing on the
economy,” said Jack Stewart, president of the California
Manufacturing and Technology Association, an industry group.
“Our intractable state budget problems will never be solved
until we encourage new investments and job creation,” he said.  “We look forward to working with the governor to make sure
that his proposals will create new job growth without
sacrificing existing jobs through higher costs,” Stewart said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  