-- 
Buffett’s Bank of America Stake Reaps $1.3 Billion Paper Profit on Day One

-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n ,   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-08-25T20:17:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/buffett-s-bank-of-america-stakes-net-1-4-billion-in-profit-on-first-day.html
Warren Buffett may have earned $1.3
billion in one day on his $5 billion investment in  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)   The preferred shares Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
bought are worth about $3.53 billion, Phil Jacoby, chief
investment officer at Spectrum Asset Management Inc. in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , estimated. Warrants included in the deal
are worth about $2.73 billion, based on Bank of America’s share
price of $7.65 as of 4:15 p.m. in New York trading, said Clay Struve, a partner with Chicago-based CSS LLC.  The 25 percent first-day return -- more than 9,000 percent
on an annualized basis -- shows the premium Bank of America
Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  was willing to pay to
attract Buffett as an investor. As Berkshire’s CEO, Buffett has
garnered a reputation as one of the world’s best investors, with
shareholder returns over the past decade that are more than
double those of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “I’m sure Warren cut a pretty good deal,” said Linus Wilson, assistant professor of finance at the University of
Louisiana at Lafayette. “For Bank of America, you get the
endorsement of  Warren Buffett , and it’s going to make it a lot
easier if Bank of America wants to raise more capital from other
investors.”  Under the terms of the deal, Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire will invest $5 billion in Bank of America, the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank said today in a statement.  Preferred Dividend  In exchange, Berkshire will receive 50,000 perpetual
preferred shares with a liquidation value of $100,000 each,
according to the statement. The preferred shares pay a dividend
of 6 percent per year, and are redeemable at any time by Bank of
America at a 5 percent premium. The dividends are cumulative,
meaning Bank of America would have to catch up if it skipped any
payments.  Berkshire also will get warrants -- a type of options -- to
buy 700 million common shares at a strike price of $7.14 each.
Investors who value warrants weigh a company’s stock price,
share volatility and the expiration date.  The Bank of America warrants are good for 10 years,
according to the statement. The bank’s shares, which had
declined 48 percent this year through yesterday, surged as much
as 26 percent today.  “It’s a package deal,” said Jacoby, whose firm
specializes in preferred shares. For Bank of America, deciding
how much to pay Buffett was probably “a process of how much
value do you feel you need to give away in order to change the
mood of the market.”  Bank of America’s closing price yesterday was $6.99 a
share.  Goldman Deal  When Buffett bought $5 billion of preferred stock in
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in 2008, he received a 10 percent
dividend and a 10 percent premium when the firm redeemed the
stock. He also received warrants that gave him the right to
purchase $5 billion of common stock at a strike price of $115 at
any point within five years.  Those warrants were in the money when the deal was
announced. Goldman Sachs disclosed the investment after the
market closed on Sept. 23, 2008, with a share price of $125.05.
The stock rallied 6.4 percent the next day to $133. Goldman
redeemed the preferred shares in April, paying the 10 percent
premium, or $500 million.  The warrants are no longer in the money, because the shares
have fallen 35 percent this year to $108.62. Buffett said in May
that he plans to hold the Goldman warrants, which expire in
2013, “very close to their expiration.”  GE Stock  Berkshire also received a 10 percent dividend and a 10
percent premium when it agreed to buy $3 billion of perpetual
preferred stock in General Electric Co. on Oct. 1, 2008. Buffett
got warrants, which expire in 2013, to buy $3 billion of common
shares at $22.25 per share, lower than the previous day’s close
of $25.50.  GE shares plunged 9.6 percent the day after the investment
to $22.15. They have yet to reach a higher closing price in the
almost three years since then, ending trading yesterday at
$15.72.  In a 2009 interview, Buffett said the warrants in the GE
and Goldman Sachs deals would allow him to profit if the stock
surged.  “I wanted a possible kicker,” he said, adding that he
didn’t know if Berkshire would make money by exercising the
warrants in either company. “I think the odds are reasonably
good we do them. Maybe we’ll do it on one and not the other, but
in the end I was satisfied with the preferred I was getting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Keoun in  New York  at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 