-- 
Buffett’s $7 Million Sacrifice Is Only a Start: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-08-25T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/buffett-s-7-million-gesture-is-only-a-start-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
Whenever the leadership class feels
nervous, you can count on some of them to offer the less-moneyed
masses a bone to demonstrate they care.  Warren Buffett  says his
idea of “shared sacrifice” is higher taxes on the super-rich.
Only for him, this wouldn’t cost much.  In a New York Times  op-ed  last week, the  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  chief executive officer said his federal-tax bill for 2010
was about $6.9 million, just 17 percent of his taxable income.
The other 20 people in his office paid an average rate of 36
percent, he said. If only he had been taxed another $7 million
or so, that would bring him closer to being even-steven with the
rest of us, Buffett seemed to suggest. It’s a nice gesture,
perhaps, although for a guy whose stake in Berkshire is valued
at $37 billion, this wouldn’t be much to give up.  Want to see what true shared sacrifice looks like? Read the
epilogue of  Michael Perino ’s book, “ The Hellhound of Wall
Street ,” about the great  Wall Street  crash and the Senate
Banking Committee's 1933 hearings, led by  Ferdinand Pecora ,
the committee’s chief counsel.  Perino, a St. John’s University law professor, recounted a
March 1933 newspaper column by the famed journalist  Walter
Lippmann , who wrote that the relentless congressional unmasking
of bankers’ misdeeds was clearly in the public interest even
though the revelations exacerbated the banking crisis. Thousands
of banks failed during the hearings, and millions of Americans
lost their money. This was before the days of government-backed
deposit insurance.  Natural Disinfectant  “It is, of course, true that the exposure accelerated the
banking crisis by adding to the popular distrust of banks,”
Lippmann wrote. “But the exposure has proved to be a good thing,
not merely in the general sense that wrongs should always be
exposed whatever the consequences, but in the specific sense
that the way has been opened to a more thorough-going
reconstruction.”  “The crisis has not only made it possible for the
administration to reform the banking system drastically, but it
has produced, or at least brought into the open, a recognition
of evils and a desire for a reform within the banking community
itself.”  Today the fundamental problem for consumers, banks and
governments alike is too much debt. The process of deleveraging
is painful. There is no way of getting around this. Yet ever
since the current financial crisis started in 2008, the U.S.
government has responded by doing all it can to avoid the
inevitable reckoning. European leaders have done the same.  Stop Trying  We have tried bailouts, drawing applause from Buffett,
whose company owns a 6.67 percent stake in  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  We
have tried federal stimulus spending, which yielded little more
than a sugar high. We have tried propping up the stock market
and  home prices  with record-low  interest rates  from the  Federal
Reserve , hurting savers as well as retirees and anyone else
living on a fixed income.  We have tried covering up banks’ losses, through loose
accounting and get-out-of-jail-free cards for bankers who lie
about their companies’ finances. The costs have been immense,
both to long-term investor confidence and the rule of law. And
none of it has worked, except in the transitory sense.  Bank stocks are crashing again, partly because investors
don’t trust the balance sheets of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , to name a couple. While we have managed to keep
the financial system limping along, the government refuses to
accept that for the economy to get appreciably better it
probably will have to get worse first.  To the Rescue  Tomorrow in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , the world will be
watching Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  to see if he will ride to the
markets’ rescue with a third round of quantitative easing --
printing more money to boost asset prices. At some point, we all
must recognize there’s only so much government can and should do
to ease our loss of wealth, or to entice investors into risky
assets whose returns may well depend on further interventions.  There used to be this quaint notion of a business cycle,
where it was widely accepted that good times and bad times came
and went, and that the role of government was to ensure that
neither got out of hand. For too long we have operated on the
premise that bad times are something to be prevented or
postponed no matter the cost -- to the point where the choice
now becomes framed as one between economic calamity and buying
time.  The American people can handle a bad economy, even an awful
one. Most don’t have a lot of money to start with. What is
unbearable is the current policy of running to aid the world’s
biggest, most disaster-prone financial institutions every time
they get into trouble, with only afterthoughts paid to what this
means for ordinary citizens.  You want shared sacrifice? Let’s start with market
regulators forcing the largest banks to fess up to their pent-up
losses and come clean with their books, so we can get their red
ink behind us as quickly as possible and create a new baseline
for sustainable growth. While reckonings are expensive, the cost
of forestalling them through legerdemain is always far greater.
No doubt this would cost Buffett a lot more than $7 million.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  