-- 
Burger King Adds Mom-Friendly Food as Whopper Lovers Lose Jobs

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-08-25T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/burger-king-adds-mom-friendly-food-as-whopper-lovers-lose-jobs.html
It’s enough to make a Burger King
fan choke on his Whopper.  Strawberry smoothies, Asian chicken salads and oatmeal are
coming to Burger King Holdings Inc. The Miami-based chain is
broadening its offerings to attract more women and families as
its core customers -- Whopper-munching 16- to 34-year-old males
-- endure the highest unemployment of any cohort.  The makeover at the second-largest U.S. burger chain risks
going too far too fast, according to Joel Cohen, president of
the Cohen Restaurant Marketing Group in Raleigh,  North Carolina .  “It’s a dramatic switch, so you’re in danger of losing
loyal customers who loved the original brand,” he said. When
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  embraced a more upscale cafe vibe, it was
“gradual and not as intrusive as the Burger King change.”  Burger King has been revamping its strategy since 3G
Capital Inc., a New York-based private equity firm, bought the
chain for about $3.93 billion in October. Revenue declined 4.3
percent to $596 million and net income fell 13 percent to $42.8
million for the three months ended June 30.  “We’re known as the best place for burgers; we’re going to
continue that,” Steve Wiborg, executive vice president and
president of Burger King  North America , said in a telephone
interview. “But we also need to broaden our target.”  The jobless rate among men aged 20 to 24 was 15.7 percent
in July, according to the U.S. Labor Department, while the rate
for men aged 25 to 34 was 10.2 percent -- both above the
national average.  McDonald’s-Style Fare  Burger King rolled out oatmeal nationwide this week.
Smoothies and salads are now being tested in 100 stores. The new
menu items follow by less than a year the debut of McDonald’s
fruit and maple oatmeal and mango-pineapple smoothies. Last
year, Burger King introduced McDonald’s-style breakfast fare,
including pancake and sausage platters and flavored coffees.  “We’ve neglected mom, children and families,” said David
Ostrowe, who owns 10 Burger Kings in  Oklahoma . The healthier
items will help bring back “some of the families that we’ve
lost to competitors,” he said.  Burger King is retiring its creepy mascot, the King, and
moving away from the raunchy humor that typified its commercials
in recent years. The chain also parted ways with the ad agency
Crispin Porter + Bogusky and hired McGarryBowen, which has
created ads for  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and Walt Disney Co.  The first new TV ad features the new California Whopper and
makes a fetish of fresh ingredients: juicy tomatoes, sizzling
bacon, guacamole in a stone mortar. The sandwich weighs in at
820  calories  with 56 grams of fat, compared with 670 calories
and 40 grams of fat for a regular Whopper.  Cult-Like Following  Burger King earned a cult-like following among so-called
dude-bros with the Subservient Chicken, who obeys commands
submitted over the Web, and a re-imagined King, who was nothing
like the kid-friendly cartoon in 1960s commercials.  In one spot a 20-something dude woke up in bed with the
silent, Renaissance-esque monarch, who offered him a meaty
breakfast sandwich. One of Crispin Porter’s last campaigns
exhorted Facebook users to “defriend” 10 people to score a
free Whopper -- more than 200,000 friends were ditched before
Facebook shut down the program.  While the flame-broiled burgers and irreverent ads appealed
to young guys, the new smoothies and salads may be a harder
sell. “I’m not into that stuff,” said Richard Ramirez, a 28-
year-old printing plant supervisor munching a Whopper last month
at a Burger King in Chicago.  Industrial Look  And Burger King’s new industrial look, dreamed up before 3G
Capital bought the company, may not mesh with the new menu,
according to Dominic Flis, who owns 16 Burger King stores in
 Arkansas . “They were disconnected from the get-go,” he said.  The so-called 20/20 remodel features corrugated metal,
brick, wood and concrete and was originally envisioned as a kind
of temple to flame-broiled cooking. Many franchisees have since
balked at the $500,000 to $600,000-per-restaurant price tag, and
Burger King has found cheaper alternatives -- remodels are now
about $275,000 -- that play down the chain’s flame-broiled
heritage, says Wiborg.  Flis isn’t remodeling any of his restaurants because the
new design won’t resonate with his customers, he says. Still,
sales at his stores fell 9 percent through June. By contrast,
industrywide revenue will rise about 2 percent this year,
according to market researcher IBISWorld Inc.  Flis says he hopes salads and smoothies will bring in “the
same people that go to McDonald’s.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  