-- 
Canadian Dollar Trades Within 2 Cents of Parity as European Woe Saps Risk

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-08-25T21:14:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/canada-s-dollar-poised-for-weekly-gain-before-bernanke-s-address-tomorrow.html
Canada’s dollar was within 2 cents
of trading weaker than its U.S. counterpart as stocks fell on
concern  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is harming financial
institutions, discouraging demand for higher-yielding assets.  The loonie, as the currency is sometimes known, was headed
for a 3.4 percent monthly drop on speculation the global
economic recovery is slowing. Stocks also fell today on concern
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke may disappoint
investors betting that he will commit in his speech tomorrow in
 Jackson Hole , Wyoming, to stepping up stimulus.  “I am still concerned about downside risk to equities,”
said Firas Askari, head of  currency trading  in Toronto at Bank
of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit. “That will lead to a
selloff in risk, which will lead to a selloff in the Canadian
dollar. The issues in Europe are still there. The issues in the
 United States  are going to take years to solve. Nothing the Fed
does is going to take that away in the near future.”  The Canadian currency traded at 98.83 cents per  U.S. dollar 
by 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with 98.71 cents yesterday. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0118. The loonie was last weaker than
the greenback on Aug. 9, when it depreciated to C$1.0010. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0122.  An agreement by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. to
invest $5 billion in Bank of America Corp. briefly spurred
demand for riskier assets including Canadian dollars before it
petered out, according to traders.  Buffett Effect  “The Bank of America/Buffett news juiced up risk sentiment
quite considerably at first, pushing the Canadian dollar
higher,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist in
Toronto at TD Securities Inc., a unit of  Canada ’s second-largest
bank. “We saw U.S. dollar-Canada dollar stops hit in the low to
mid-98s to accentuate the move.” Stop orders are placed to buy
or sell a security once a certain price is reached. One Canadian
dollar buys $1.0122.  The yield on 10-year  government bonds  fell six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 2.40 percent. The price of
the 3.25 percent securities maturing in June 2021 rose 51 cents
to C$107.31. The yield dropped on Aug. 18 to 2.25 percent, the
lowest level in Bloomberg data beginning in 1989.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell for the first time in
four days, decreasing 1.6 percent, while the S&P/TSX Composite
Index decreased 0.5 percent. Futures on crude oil, Canada’s
biggest export, dropped 0.2 percent to $84.99 a barrel in  New
York .  Germany’s DAX Index declined 1.7 percent after plunging 4
percent in about 15 minutes before France, Italy and Spain
extended their bans on short selling. A short is a bet an asset
may decline in value.  Short-Selling Bans  The three European countries, along with  Belgium , imposed
bans on short-selling of some financial stocks earlier this
month in an effort to stabilize markets after European banks
including  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA hit their lowest levels since the
credit crisis of 2008.  Bernanke speaks tomorrow in Jackson Hole, where he
indicated in August 2010 that the central bank “will do all
that it can” to ensure a continuation of the economic recovery
and that more securities purchases may be warranted if growth
slows. Two months later, the Fed announced a $600 billion second
round of U.S. debt purchases to support the recovery, a program
that ended in June.  “I suspect Mr. Bernanke tomorrow will just focus on the
economy and why at this point they think  interest rates  are
likely to remain on hold,” said  Camilla Sutton , chief currency
strategist in Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital
unit.  The loonie has weakened 3.1 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a
gauge of 10 developed-nation currencies. The greenback has
gained 1.8 percent, and the yen has risen 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  