-- 
Canada Second Quarter Financial Statistics Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-08-25T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/canada-second-quarter-financial-statistics-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's financial statistics report for the second
quarter
released by  Statistics Canada .  Canadian corporations earned $64.0 billion in operating
profits in the second quarter, down 4.9% from the previous
quarter. Overall, 14 out of 22 industries reported lower
profits in the second quarter.  In the non-financial sector, operating profits
decreased 3.8% to $47.3 billion. Much of this decline came
from the manufacturing industry and the transportation and
warehousing industry. In manufacturing, two-thirds of the
decline came from petroleum and coal manufacturers.  In the financial sector, operating profits were down
7.9% to $16.7 billion. Most of this decline came from the
 insurance industry .  On a year-over-year basis, operating profits for all
industries were 10.2% higher in the second quarter than
they were in the second quarter of 2010. Profits were 8.7%
higher in the non-financial sector and 14.8% higher in the
financial sector.  Non-financial sector  Manufacturing profits amounted to $11.4 billion in the
second quarter, down 8.3% from the previous quarter. The
decline was led by petroleum and coal products
manufacturers, whose profits fell 24.1% to $2.2 billion.
Results from the Monthly Survey of Manufacturing show that
manufacturing sales fell for the third consecutive month
in June.  Also contributing to the decline, although to a lesser
extent, were  motor vehicle  and parts manufacturers, food
and soft drink manufacturers and manufacturers of
chemical, plastics and rubber products. Supply disruptions
from  Japan  have had an impact on motor vehicle production
in Canada.  Second-quarter profits for transportation and
warehousing fell 15.5% to $2.2 billion, the third
consecutive quarterly decline.  Profits for retailers decreased 5.7% to $3.4 billion,
as profits for clothing, department and other general
merchandise stores declined 6.6% to $754 million. Profits
for wholesalers fell 4.4% to $5.3 billion.  Profits for the  mining industry  rose 2.4% to $2.5
billion, while profits in the oil and gas industry
increased 2.4% to $4.0 billion.  Financial sector  In the financial sector, most of the second-quarter
decline came from the insurance carriers and related
activities industry, where profits decreased 42.4% to $2.2
billion. This decline was led by life insurers, where
higher actuarial liabilities were recorded.  Part of this decline was offset by the depository
credit intermediation industry, where profits increased
4.6% to $8.4 billion.  Note to readers  Quarterly financial statistics are compiled using
financial information provided by enterprises that derive
this data from their financial statements. Starting on
January 1, 2011, Canadian publicly accountable enterprises
are required to replace Canadian Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (CGAAP) with International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS) when preparing their financial
statements for fiscal years starting on or after January
1, 2011. Canadian private enterprises are required to
replace CGAAP by Accounting Standards for Private
Enterprises (ASPE) or IFRS. The adoption of new accounting
standards by some enterprises since the beginning of 2011
may affect comparability with prior periods.  Quarterly profit numbers referred to in this release
are seasonally adjusted and are in current dollars. The
quarterly financial data for the first quarter of 2011
have been revised.  Quarterly financial statistics for enterprises are
based upon a sample survey and represent the activities of
all corporations in  Canada , except those that are
government controlled or not-for-profit. An enterprise can
be a single corporation or a family of corporations under
common ownership and/or control, for which consolidated
financial statements are produced.  Profits referred to in this analysis are operating
profits earned from normal business activities. For non-
financial industries, operating profits exclude interest
and dividend revenue and capital gains/losses whereas, for
financial industries, these are included, along with
interest paid on deposits.  Operating profits differ from net profits, which
represent the after-tax profits earned by corporations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  