-- 
Canada June Employment, Earnings and Hours Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-08-25T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/canada-june-employment-earnings-and-hours-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's employment, earnings, and hours report for June
released by  Statistics Canada .  In June, average weekly earnings of non-farm payroll
employees increased 0.3% from the previous month to
$876.27. On a year-over-year basis, average weekly
earnings were 3.0% higher compared with June 2010.  The 3.0% increase reflects a number of factors, such as
wage growth and changes in the composition of employment
by industry, by occupation and by level of job experience.  Average hours worked per week, which can also
contribute to growth in earnings, did not account for any
of the increase in June. The average work week was 32.9
hours, unchanged from June 2010.  Average weekly earnings up in every province  Average weekly earnings rose in every province in the
12 months to June, led by growth in Alberta and British
Columbia. The slowest growth was in Saskatchewan and
Prince  Edward Island .  In Alberta, average weekly earnings in June amounted to
$1,041.45, a 5.0% increase from June 2010. Alberta has
recorded year-over-year growth in earnings above the
national average since March 2010.  Average weekly earnings by industry  Year-over-year growth in average weekly earnings
exceeded the national average of 3.0% in two of Canada's
largest industrial sectors: professional, scientific and
technical services as well as retail trade. Year-over-year
earnings declined in both accommodation and food services
and in educational services.  In the 12 months to June, average weekly earnings in
professional, scientific and technical services increased
5.2% to $1,242.91. Since June 2010, a number of industries
within the sector have had notable earnings growth. They
included architectural, engineering and related services;
management, scientific and technical consulting services;
and computer systems design and related services.  The second fastest rate of growth in average weekly
earnings occurred in retail trade, where it rose 3.7% to
$520.26, spread across a number of industries.  Year-over-year growth in earnings also surpassed the
national average in some smaller sectors. Earnings for
employees in finance and insurance rose 5.9% to $1,083.13,
mainly in insurance carriers and related activities
(+11.3%) as well as securities and commodity contracts
(+8.2%).  In mining, quarrying, oil and gas extraction, earnings
rose 4.2% to $1,771.75 since June 2010, the result of
increases in support activities for mining and oil and gas
extraction as well as mining and quarrying.  Average weekly hours worked  At 32.9 hours, average weekly hours were unchanged for
the third consecutive month.  While overall average weekly hours were unchanged from
June 2010, there were notable year-over-year increases in
utilities (+3.1%); finance and insurance (+1.5%); and
health care and social assistance (+1.3%). At the same
time, there were declines in arts, entertainment and
recreation (-4.6%) as well as in retail trade (-1.4%).  Non-farm payroll employment by sector  Non-farm payroll employment rose by 63,600 from May to
June. In the 12 months to June, the number of non-farm
payroll employees increased by 258,100 (+1.8%).  The monthly increase in June was spread across most
sectors, with the largest gains in construction, public
administration as well as health care and social
assistance.  On a year-over-year basis, the fastest growth was in
the mining, quarrying, oil and gas extraction sector,
where payroll employment increased by 19,800 (+10.6%). The
bulk of the growth occurred in support activities for
mining, oil and gas extraction in  Alberta .  Payroll employment in public administration also
increased faster than the national average, rising 2.9% in
the 12 months to June, the result of temporary hiring in
May and June associated with the Census program.  Year-over-year job growth of 2.7% in professional,
scientific and technical services was also above the
national average, mainly the result of job growth in
architectural, engineering and related services and
computer design services.  Construction employment increased by 22,300 (+2.7%)
since June 2010. Most of the increase was among specialty
trade contractors and heavy and civil engineering
construction.  Note to readers  The Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH) is
a business census of non-farm payroll employees. Its key
objective is to provide a monthly portrait of the level of
earnings, the number of jobs and hours worked by detailed
industry at the national, provincial and territorial
level.  Statistics Canada also produces employment estimates
from its monthly Labour Force Survey (LFS). The LFS is a
household survey whose main objective is to divide the
working-age population into three mutually exclusive
groups: the employed (including the self-employed),
unemployed and not in the labour force. This survey is the
official source for the  unemployment rate  and collects
data on the socio-demographic characteristics of all those
in the labour market.  As a result of conceptual and methodological
differences, estimates of changes from SEPH and LFS do
differ from time to time. However, the trends in the data
are quite similar.  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents
seasonally adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by
removing the effects of seasonal variations.  Non-farm payroll employment data are for all hourly and
salaried employees, as well as "other employees' category,
which includes piece-rate and commission-only employees.  Average weekly hours data are for hourly and salaried
employees only and exclude businesses which could not be
classified to a North American Industrial Classification
System code.  All earnings data include overtime pay and exclude
businesses which could not be classified to a North
American Industrial Classification System code.  Average weekly earnings are derived by dividing total
weekly earnings by the number of employees.  Changes in average earnings can be influenced by a
number of factors. Changes in the level of earnings, the
number of payroll employees, and the number of hours
worked can have an impact. Other factors could include
compositional changes over time, such as changes in the
proportions of full-time and part-time work; proportions
of casual, senior and junior employees; the occupational
distribution within and across industries; and in the
distribution of employment between industries. Such
effects may apply differently within different provinces
and territories, and over time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  