-- 
CarbonDesk Recommends Risk Strategy on Potential Euro Breakup

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-08-25T16:56:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/carbondesk-recommends-risk-strategy-on-potential-euro-breakup.html
Carbon traders should consider
selling spot permits and buying 2013 call options to reduce
financial risks from a potential breakup of the single European
currency during the next two years.  “We recommend that anyone holding a position in European
Union allowances or Certified Emission Reductions should sell
holdings of spot certificates and convert them into 2013 call
options,” the London broker said in a note sent by e-mail
today. This would turn permits into cash while maintaining
exposure to carbon prices, it said. “Should the euro implode
the maximum loss is limited to the cost of the call options.”  A  call option  gives the holder the right to buy a permit at
a certain price. Call options to buy December 2013 carbon
futures for 14.50 euros ($20.91) cost 2.99 euros yesterday, ICE
Futures  Europe  data show.  A collapse in the euro bloc and its currency may follow
from the sovereign debt crisis as nations such as Germany and
 France  decline to “throw good money after bad,” CarbonDesk
said. “Despite the low probability of the euro being broken up,
the consequences for any company holding EU allowances and CERs
are so severe that it appears imprudent to hold an uncovered
position.”  Europe is not at risk of slipping into another recession
and the euro-region will attract new members rather than break
up,  Angel Gurria , secretary general of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, said yesterday.  “I think more countries will be joining the euro,” he
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “The euro and Europe
will remain the largest trading block in the world for a long
time to come.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  