-- 
Chile Peso Holds at One-Week High as Stock Slump Counters Copper

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-08-25T18:13:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/chile-peso-holds-at-one-week-high-as-stock-slump-counters-copper.html
Chile ’s peso held at a one-week high
as rising prices for copper, the country’s main export, were
offset by a drop in global equities that damped demand for
riskier emerging-market assets.  The peso was unchanged at 467.06 per dollar at 2:08 p.m.
New York time, its strongest level since Aug. 17. Copper futures
for December delivery rose as much as 2.6 percent for a third
day of gains.  “The fall in equities abroad is countering the rise in
copper prices,” Francisca Roa, an analyst at Santiago-based
currency consultancy firm Netgociando SA, said in a phone
interview. “Investors are also on the sidelines waiting for an
announcement from the Fed tomorrow on whether there will be
another stimulus package.”  Investors are awaiting a speech by Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, tomorrow for any
indications of whether the central bank will adopt further
stimulus measures. At last year’s meeting, Bernanke signaled
that the Fed would start a second round of asset purchases,
known as QE2, that boosted global markets.  “If another stimulus package is announced, it could
strengthen the peso further, up to 460 per dollar,” Matias  Madrid , an economist at Banco Penta, said in a phone interview
today from Santiago.  Stocks in the U.S. fell after  Germany ’s DAX Index sank amid
concern regulators in the country may impose more restrictions
on short selling. The  Standard & Poor’s  500 index fell as much
as 1.8 percent today, while the DAX slumped 4 percent.  Chile’s central bank today paid an average of 466.05 pesos
per dollar for $50 million as part of a $12 billion program to
stem the peso’s gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  