-- 
Thousands of Chileans Protest for Education, Labor Reforms

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s   a n d   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 
2011-08-25T18:27:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/chile-braces-for-second-day-of-protests-government-calls-failure.html
Tens of thousands of workers and
students marched through central Santiago to push President
Sebastian Pinera for better labor and education conditions.  Clashes broke out at the end of the demonstration, with
police using water cannons and tear gas to disperse crowds.
Protestors had earlier attempted to subdue groups of masked
youths who threw rocks and lit fires, television images showed.  Students, teachers and unionized workers marched down the
main road in the downtown area as part of a 48-hour protest
organized by the  Central Workers Union , some shouting slogans
comparing Pinera with military dictator  Augusto Pinochet . Pinera
has become the least popular president since democracy was
restored in 1990 even as the top copper-producing nation’s
economy expands at the fastest pace in a decade.  “The politicians are disoriented and don’t know how to
deal with these social protests,” Leonardo Cavieres, a high
school teacher, said during the march today. “Our main goal is
to change this neoliberal capitalism. We’re not just fighting
for student rights, but those of the workers as well.”  Demonstrators in Plaza Italia played drums, danced and
posed for pictures alongside a protester dressed like Captain
Jack Sparrow from the movie Pirates of the Caribbean.  Transport Normal  Most employees ignored the call to strike, Labor Minister
Evelyn Matthei told reporters at the presidential palace today.
The Santiago public transport system is operating normally,
Deputy Interior Minister Rodrigo Ubilla told state-owned
television channel TVN. International flights weren’t affected,
according to the Santiago airports  website .  “I am working actively trying to resolve problems but the
way to do it is constructively via dialogue,” Matthei said.
“There are problems in education and in labor and many problems
that come from the past.”  More than 300 people were arrested yesterday, the first day
of the demonstrations. Six officers were wounded in Santiago as
protesters set up roadblocks, torched cars and looted shops
after failing to impede public transport during business hours,
Ubilla said. Chilevision showed images of a masked man firing a
shotgun at police last night.  Matthei said the CUT has rejected talks with the government
while Ubilla described yesterday’s labor strike “a great
failure.”  ‘Demonized’  “This is a right-wing government that has demonized social
demonstrations,” Claudio Urrutia, director of CUT’s
international department, said in an interview. “This
government doesn’t seek dialogue. We have to change the tax
regime in this country.”  Pinera, a Harvard-trained economist and billionaire
investor, took office last year on the promise of speeding
 Chile ’s entry into the developed world with growth averaging 6
percent annually, about double the pace of the previous
administration.  The economy grew 8.4 percent in the first half, the fastest
pace since 1995, as consumption surged and reconstruction after
an earthquake in February, 2010 spurred investment.  Pinera is proposing $4 billion in new education spending
financed, in part, through copper revenue that has boosted
fiscal savings to $18 billion, or 9 percent of GDP, the highest
level since 2009. Pinera’s approval slumped to 26 percent in a
poll this month by Santiago-based CEP.  ‘Has Resources’  “It’s said there’s no money, which is a lie because the
state has resources,” said Javier San Martin, a protester and
university student. “That why it’s important to nationalize
copper, which is our principal source of revenue. That would
allow us to guarantee quality education for everyone.”  Melbourne-based BHP Billiton Ltd. and London-based Anglo
American Plc operate mines in Chile. State-owned Codelco, which
was created after former president Salvador Allende nationalized
the copper industry in 1971, is the world’s largest producer of
the metal.  Chile has the highest level of  income inequality  among
member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development. The only South American participant of the
organization, Chile has the third-highest  poverty rate  in the
group after Mexico and  Israel , according to an  OECD report .  Workers with Codelco expressed their solidarity with the
strike in an Aug. 22 statement, without committing to stop mine
production. The demonstrations may be the biggest protest since
the military government of Augusto Pinochet ended in 1990, labor
unions said.  ‘Illegal strike’  “This is an unnecessary and illegal strike,” Finance
Minister Felipe Larrain said Aug. 23 at the Bloomberg Chile
Economic Summit in Santiago. “It is unfortunate because through
strikes and demonstrations we’re not going to develop Chile.”  The government estimates the national strike will cost the
$200 billion economy about $200 million each day, Larrain said.  The government signed a wage agreement Aug. 23 with groups
representing about 70,000 public health workers, or about 80
percent of the total, Larrain said.  People have reason enough to protest as long as they do so
peacefully, Andres Velasco, who served as finance minister in
the government of  Michelle Bachelet , told reporters Aug. 23.  “There’s a general sense of unease in society,”  Raul
Gonzalez , a protester as well as economist and social scientist
at the Christian Humanism Academic University in Santiago, said
during the march. Chile is a “society that bottles things up
inside and expresses itself at certain moments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ; or
Matthew Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net . 