-- 
China Bonded Copper Stockpiles Fall About 50%, Glencore Says

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-08-25T12:25:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/china-bonded-copper-stockpiles-fall-about-50-glencore-says-1-.html
Copper stockpiles in bonded
warehouses in  China , the world’s largest user of the metal, have
dropped about 50 percent this year, adding to signs that demand
is “strong,” Glencore International Plc said.  The decline partly reflects tighter financing conditions
facing “various market participants,” Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore said in an earnings statement today. Copper has dropped
6.2 percent this year on speculation global growth is slowing,
curbing demand for metals.  “Adjusting apparent demand for the significant inventory
drawdowns we have seen in China during the first half 2011, one
can conclude that real demand has been and continues to be
strong,” Glencore said. There are  “mounting risks to supply,
particularly in the copper concentrate market.”  Glencore sold 17 percent less copper metal and concentrates
in the first half than a year earlier, the company said in the
statement. While demand for industrial metals in the U.S. and
 Europe  was “constrained” by limited supply growth, German
usage was “particularly strong,” mainly because of stronger
export demand, the company said.  ‘More Buying’  “We now do see more buying existing in China, which should
hopefully lead to the stronger second half of 2011,” Chief
Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg said on a conference call
today. While the first half of last year was “extremely
robust” because of zinc and copper restocking, “we do not see
the same restocking situation in the first half of 2011,” he
said.  Premiums buyers are prepared to pay for aluminum are being
supported by inventory financing transactions and “logistics
bottlenecks,” Glencore said. The company said it will stay
focused on warehousing activities.  Glencore’s first-half alumina and aluminum sales rose about
16 percent to 6.5 million metric tons.  “Market conditions in aluminum have generally been
favorable,” the company said. Glencore said it will continue to
seek “long-term” supply contracts with existing partners,
while also seeking “new business opportunities with smelters
being opened in the Gulf and elsewhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  