-- 
China Might Stop UN CO2 Credit Supply in 2015, Barclays Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-08-25T13:23:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/china-may-withdraw-from-un-co2-program-in-2015-barclays-says.html
China , the biggest supplier of
carbon credits, might withdraw from the United Nations-overseen
Clean Development Mechanism around 2015, boosting offset prices
in the five years through 2020, said  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   Post-2012 letters of approval from China’s National
Development and Reform Commission, the nation’s regulator, are
specifying volume limits that might suggest a halt in supply
around 2015, Barclays Capital analysts including  Trevor Sikorski 
in  London  said today in an e-mailed research note, citing
discussions with project developers.  China might be expecting to keep its emission reductions
for itself to meet its own greenhouse gas targets, rather than
export them, the analysts said. The 1997 Kyoto Protocol places
targets only on some developed nations through 2012. The U.S.
has argued that fast-developing nations including China need
targets too. China is the biggest seller of credits under the
UN’s Clean Development Mechanism to factories and power stations
in  Europe , for instance, according to UN data.  “It could be that the way the NDRC is managing the
interaction with the CDM is by effectively withdrawing from the
mechanism in 2015,” Barclays said, saying that hypothesis was
conjecture. “Such a withdrawal of Certified Emission Reduction
issuance would help support the CER price in the second half of
this decade.”  The implication is China might stop selling credits around
2015, slashing global supply, Sikorski said today by phone.  At least some nations want to make sure a global climate-
protection system would not allow double counting of emission
reductions in both emerging and rich nations, according to a UN
Framework Convention on Climate Change  technical paper  dated
June 3.  Double Counting?  While countries set up carbon trading programs and develop
other policies to cut  greenhouse gases , “there is a
possibility, depending on accounting rules that are yet to be
developed, that the same emission reductions are double-counted
as reductions of emissions in developed and developing
parties,” according to the report published on the Bonn-based
UNFCCC’s website.  China has identified six cities for pilot emissions-trading
programs from 2013 to 2015, after which the programs would be
expanded nationwide, Sikorski said, citing NDRC plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  