-- 
China Swaps Climb After U.S. Data; PBOC Keeps Bill Yield Steady

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-08-25T09:29:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/china-swaps-climb-after-u-s-data-pboc-keeps-bill-yield-steady.html
China ’s interest-rate swaps rose
after U.S. data on durable-goods orders and  home prices  beat
economists’ estimates, easing concern the world’s biggest
economy is slipping into recession.  The benchmark money-market rate advanced after the National
Business Daily reported, citing unidentified people, that
August’s inflation rate may exceed last month’s as pork prices
jumped. Consumer prices rose 6.5 percent in July from a year
earlier, the most since June 2008, government data show. The
People’s Bank of China kept yields on three-month bills at
3.1618 percent at a weekly auction today.  “Rates in China are likely to follow global sentiment from
last night, lifting swap rates higher,” said  Matthew Huang , a
Singapore-based senior strategist with Macquarie Group Ltd.
Inflation is “still high” and should peak in the next month or
so, he said.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.81 percent as of 5:22 p.m.
in  Shanghai , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The seven-
day repurchase rate added five basis points to 4.49 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center.  U.S. home prices increased the most since September 2005,
data showed yesterday, reducing expectations for another round
of so-called quantitative easing and driving stocks and the
dollar higher.  The central bank sold 3 billion yuan ($469 million) of
three-month bills today. It published a list of 50 primary
dealers allowed to participate in open-market operations in
February, including Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.,
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., Bank of China Ltd., China
Construction Bank Corp., China Citic Bank Corp., Industrial Bank
Co. and Postal Savings Bank of China.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  