-- 
China Cosco Reaches Agreements on 18 Ships After Disputes Over Payments

-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 
2011-08-26T10:42:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/china-cosco-has-wider-than-estimated-432-million-loss-on-shipping-slump.html
China Cosco Holdings Co., the state-
controlled sea-cargo group that had ships seized in payment
disputes, said it reached agreements with shipowners covering 18
vessels.  “The disputes have been appropriately handled,” General
Manager Zhang Liang told reporters in Hong Kong today. He
declined to comment on the terms of the accords or on whether
talks were under way about any other contracts.  The company also expects to avoid being suspended from the
 Baltic Exchange , Zhang said. The disputes centered on ships
China Cosco, the nation’s biggest shipping line, had hired on
long-term deals before a plunge in rates. The collapse also
caused the Tianjin, China-based company to slump to a first-half
loss of 2.76 billion yuan ($432 million).  The company was likely “playing tough” to cut costs,
 Johnson Leung , head of regional transport at Jefferies Group
Inc. in Hong Kong, said before the deals were announced. “I
don’t think there’s a liquidity issue.”  China Cosco was operating 201 chartered commodity ships as
of June 30, according to its earnings statement. That’s 21 fewer
than at the end of last year. The shipping line was also
operating 234 self-owned dry-bulk vessels at the end of June,
along with 153 container vessels.  Financial Position  The shipping line,  Asia ’s largest operator of container
vessels, had cash and cash equivalents of 43.8 billion yuan,
down from 46.7 billion yuan six months earlier.  The shipping line’s net gearing of 0.15 is a “safe
financial position,” UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. analyst
Lawrence Li said in a note today.  At least three China Cosco vessels were arrested in
 Singapore  and the U.S. by shipowners seeking overdue payments.
Members of the Baltic Exchange also “raised concerns” about
the issue, Jeremy Penn, chief executive of the world’s largest
shipping bourse, said this week.  In the Singapore case, China Cosco was paying $87,000 a day
for a capesize vessel, or about eight times market rates this 
year, based on court filings. The ship detained in the dispute 
was released on Aug. 4, according to the city-state’s court.  DryShips Inc. Chief Executive Officer George Economou, who
had at least one Cosco ship seized, told the Financial Times
earlier this week that he may try to arrest more. Economou has
about 18 vessels on charter to Cosco through New York-listed
DryShips and closely held companies in deals worth about $500
million, the newspaper said.  China Cosco fell 1 percent to HK$4.14 in  Hong Kong  trading
today. It has plunged 24 percent this month, about double the
pace of decline for the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Wei’s Role  The shipping line’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Wei Jiafu also said that his role at the company wouldn’t be
affected by a management shake-up at its state-owned parent. Wei
became chairman of China Ocean Shipping (Group) Co. this week as
the company formed its first board. He was previously president.   “I will focus on studying strategic development, keeping
the direction of group’s development and be the decision maker
for important issues,” he said. Ma Zehua, who joined Cosco Group
this week as general manager, will be responsible for day-to-day
operations, Wei said.  China Cosco’s dry-bulk business had a first-half operating
loss of 2.68 billion yuan, while its container-ship operations
lost 946.9 million yuan. The logistics, container-terminal and
container-leasing operations all made profits.  First-half sales from moving commodities tumbled 27
percent, 10 times the pace of decline in volumes, while average
container rates fell 14 percent as an expanding global fleet
boosted competition. The two units also both had 27 percent
increases in fuel costs, mainly because of higher prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  