-- 
China Has ‘Workable’ Anti-Ship Missile Design, Pentagon Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-08-25T20:26:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/china-has-workable-anti-ship-missile-design-pentagon-says.html
China  has developed a “workable
design” of the world’s first anti-ship ballistic missile,
potentially capable of hitting and disabling a U.S. aircraft
carrier, according to Pentagon officials.  China also has satellites in place “that could provide
some targeting data on large surface ships in the region, and
this expanding infrastructure is augmented by non-space-based
sensors and surveillance assets,” said Navy Commander Leslie
Hull-Ryde, a Pentagon spokeswoman on China, in an e-mail.  “Over the next few years, we expect China will work to
refine and integrate many emerging systems, including the DF-
21D” missile, she said.  The Pentagon statement, issued today in response to
questions posed by Bloomberg News, provides details on the DF-
21D not included in the Defense Department’s annual  assessment 
of China’s military power released yesterday.  Chinese advances in military technology are drawing
administration and congressional scrutiny. The Pentagon is
concerned that China may threaten the dominance of U.S. naval
forces in the Pacific region.  In addition to the anti-ship missile, the Pentagon report
said China has “continued work on its  aircraft carrier  and
finalized the prototype of its first stealth aircraft.”  China also has advanced, “Sizzler” sea-skimming, anti-
ship cruise missiles. Ballistic missiles like the DF-21D descend
from space at supersonic speeds and therefore are harder to
defend against.  Growing Capability  Today’s statement also builds upon  remarks  in December by
Admiral Robert Willard, the head of U.S. Pacific Command, to the
Japanese newspaper Asahi Shimbun that China had acquired an
“initial operational capability” for the missile.  Neither the Pentagon statement nor Willard speculated on
when China might have an effective system. China at this time
“has provided no indication of whether they consider this an
operational system,” Hull-Ryde said. She declined to say if the
Pentagon believes the missile currently poses a threat to U.S.
carriers.  Taiwan , which relies on the U.S. military presence, says in
its new 2011 National Defense  Report  that China already has
“produced and fielded” the missile “in small numbers,” said
a translation provided by  Andrew Erikson , an associate professor
in the Naval War College’s Strategic Research Department.  As many as five of the U.S. Navy’s 11 carriers operate in
the Pacific and sail freely in international waters near China.
Their mission includes defending Taiwan should China seek to
exercise by force its claim to the island democracy, which it
considers a breakaway province.  Maneuverable Warhead  Yesterday’s Pentagon report said the DF-21D, has a range
exceeding 1,500 kilometers and a maneuverable warhead designed
to provide “the capability to attack large ships, including
aircraft carriers, in the western Pacific.”  The missiles are intended for launch to a general location,
where their guidance systems take over and spot carriers for
attack with warheads intended to destroy the aircraft on decks,
airplane-launching gear and control towers.  Before launch, the missile may also receive target
coordinates from aircraft, drones, fishing boats and over-the-
horizon radar, the Navy told Bloomberg News last year.  Unlike conventional radar, which bounces radio waves off
objects straight ahead, over-the-horizon radar banks signals off
the ionosphere, the uppermost layer of the atmosphere, to pick
up objects at greater distances.  The number of China’s warships with anti-ship weapons
tripled to 36 from 12 since 2000, said Scott Bray, the Office of
Naval Intelligence’s senior officer for intelligence on China,
in an e-mail to Bloomberg last year.  China last year conducted a “record” 15 space launches
that expanded its space-based intelligence, surveillance,
reconnaissance, navigation and communications constellations,
yesterday’s Pentagon report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  