-- 
China’s Biggest Banks Post Record Profit as BofA, RBS Falter

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-08-26T01:55:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/china-s-biggest-banks-post-record-profits-as-bofa-rbs-stumble.html
China’s five biggest banks posted
first-half profits that surpassed the total of their 14 largest
U.S. and European rivals, highlighting the Asian nation’s
financial power as other economies falter.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. said yesterday
net income rose 29 percent to a record $17 billion, pushing
combined profits of the nation’s biggest banks to $57 billion
and spurring its shares higher today.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc posted losses as the U.S.
economic recovery weakened and  Europe ’s debt crisis deepened.  China’s banks have increased profits as the world’s second-
largest economy sustained growth of more than 9 percent, helped
by a record credit boom that powered its rebound from the global
recession. The earnings reports and a drop in bad debts may
boost investor confidence after bank shares fell this year on
concern that $1.7 trillion of local government liabilities may
lead to a wave of defaults.  “Shares of Chinese lenders are in a better position to
rebound than U.S. banks,” Ronald Wan, a Hong Kong-based
managing director at China Merchants Securities (Hong Kong) Co.,
said by phone. “In the second half, the market will still be
concerned about asset quality and fund-raising issues” for
banks globally.  ‘Capital Discipline’  ICBC and its smaller rivals --  China Construction Bank
Corp. (939) ,  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288) ,  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  and
Bank of Communications Co. -- have fallen an average 18 percent
this year as policy makers tighten lending requirements,
introduce property curbs and raise  interest rates  to tame
inflation and address concerns that defaults may climb.  That’s still less than the 28 percent drop in the five
biggest U.S. lenders, led by Bank of America’s 43 percent
plunge, or the 36 percent plummet in Europe’s largest.  ICBC “has shown very strong capital discipline in recent
years relative to its peers,”  Mike Werner , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in Hong Kong, who rates the stock as
“outperform,” said in a note today. “Barring a sharp decline
in  China ’s economy, we expect ICBC will be able to grow its
 capital ratios  organically in the coming years in order to meet
tougher  capital requirements  under the Basel III regime.”  Shares of Beijing-based ICBC climbed 2.7 percent to HK$4.98
percent as of 9:50 a.m. local time, making it the best performer
on the  Hang Seng Index  today. Agricultural Bank, which yesterday
said profit climbed 45 percent, fell 0.5 percent to HK$3.81.  Weak Profit Outlook  Combined first-half earnings at the 15 largest U.S. banks
by assets dropped 17 percent from a year earlier, led by a
decline at four of the six biggest. Unemployment in the world’s
biggest economy has remained above 9 percent and gross domestic
product showed a weaker-than-expected first-half expansion,
threatening to further sap bank earnings.  In Europe, lenders led by London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) 
have announced plans in the past month to cut more than 40,000  jobs as the region’s worsening sovereign debt crisis crimps
trading revenue. The financial firms are also trimming expenses
as regulators force banks to hold more and better quality
capital to withstand future shocks.  ‘Worst Off’  “European banks are surely the worst off,” China
Merchants’ Wan said. “There are questions about their  credit
quality  and their fund raising ability.”  China’s banking regulator has also asked lenders to
increase capital buffers and accelerate loan collection
schedules for local government debt as it seeks to avert a
banking crisis following the record $2.7 trillion credit boom
that began in 2009.  As much as 30 percent of the outstanding credit to local
governments may sour and become the biggest source of bad debts
for banks,  Standard & Poor’s  has estimated.  The banking regulator told lenders they haven’t set aside
sufficient funds to cover losses on local government loans or
done enough to revise loan agreements and speed up repayments, a
person with knowledge of the matter said in July.  ICBC, which has the most local government loans among
China’s top five lenders, said bad debt accounted for 0.25
percent of its 931 billion yuan in such credit as of June 30.
Construction Bank said Aug. 22 that the non-performing loan
ratio for its 580 billion yuan in local government debt was 1.11
percent, the highest among the five.  Globally, banking stocks have fallen too much, Wan said.
Chinese banks may begin to recover once policy makers contain
inflation and relax lending constraints, he said.  “Their drop is likely to ease in the second half if
nothing major happens,” he said. “But the problems banks are
facing now will still be around.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  