-- 
Citigroup, UBS Cut Global Economic Growth Outlook as Jackson Hole Starts

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-08-25T16:58:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/citigroup-ubs-cut-global-economic-growth-outlook-as-jackson-hole-starts.html
Central bankers began arriving for
their annual policy symposium in Jackson Hole as economists from
Citigroup Inc. to UBS AG cut forecasts for global growth and
predicted  interest rates  will stay on hold until at least 2013.  Citigroup said the world economy will grow 3.8 percent this
year and 4 percent in 2012 in purchasing power parity terms,
down from 4.2 percent and 4.4 percent. UBS cut its estimate for
expansion next year to 3.3 percent from 3.8 percent and Societe
Generale SA pared its forecast to 3.9 percent from 4.6 percent.  The worsening economic outlook provides the context for
three days of talks in the Wyoming resort featuring officials
including Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and European
Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet. While global
recession will be avoided, weak growth will force the Fed, ECB
and  Bank of Japan  to leave borrowing costs unchanged through at
least next year, Citigroup, Societe Generale and UBS said.  “A perfect storm hit this summer, driven by the turbulent
winds of the euro debt crisis, U.S. debt ceiling,  Tea Party , and
concerns on the sustainability of the recovery,” Societe
Generale economist Michala Marcussen said. “As financial
market turmoil intensified, the storm clouds darkened further.
Damage has already been done to the world economy, and the U.S.
and  Europe  are now growing at close to stall-speed.”  Economic growth is deteriorating after the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index lost as much as $1 trillion since the U.S. was
stripped of its AAA rating by S&P on Aug. 5. European officials
are struggling to deal with a debt crisis which is nearing its
third year and this month jolted  France  for the first time.  Sovereign Debt  Deteriorating financial conditions, the inability of policy
makers in the U.S. and Europe to deal with sovereign debt
challenges, the likelihood of more restrictive fiscal policy and
slower trade were behind UBS’s growth downgrade, economists led
by Larry Hatheway said in a report to clients.  Equity analysts at Credit Suisse Group AG said in a
separate report that their core scenario is for a “sub-par
recovery” worldwide with only a 20 percent chance of the world
falling back into recession. Emerging markets accounting for
about half of global gross domestic product will help the world
to avoid contracting, they said.  The outlook will likely force central banks to keep
interest rates at or near record lows, the economists said. The
Fed has already pledged to hold its benchmark rate near zero for
another two years. The ECB has lifted its benchmark twice this
year to 1.5 percent to fight inflation. The Bank of England’s
key rate is at 0.5 percent and  Japan ’s is between zero and 0.1
percent.  ‘Long Period’  “We expect a long period of low policy rates among major
economies,” said  Michael Saunders , an economist at Citigroup in
 London .  The policy makers and economists meeting in Jackson Hole
will start their talks in the shadow of the Teton mountains with
a dinner tonight before a breakfast speech tomorrow by Bernanke
at which he may disappoint stock investors betting on a
commitment to step up stimulus.  At a separate conference in the German town of Lindau,
Nobel laureates split over whether Bernanke should pursue
another round of quantitative easing after the two previous
efforts did little to spur growth or hiring.  While Edmund Phelps of  Columbia University  told Bloomberg
Television he doubted the “Fed can do anything to goose up
growth,” the University of Chicago’s Roger Myerson said “a
patriotic governor of the Federal Reserve system should serve
the country by buying  government bonds .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in  Jackson Hole  at  skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 