-- 
Clinton Review of Canada Pipeline Ignores Risks, Groups Say

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-08-25T16:28:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/clinton-review-of-transcanada-oil-sands-pipeline-ignores-risks-groups-say.html
The U.S. State Department has failed
to respond to environmental concerns over a proposed oil
pipeline from  Canada  ahead of an assessment that may come as
soon as tomorrow, environmental groups said.  There is “no evidence” the department is analyzing
whether  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed $7 billion Keystone XL
project should be rerouted or may be prone to leaks, said Susan Casey-Lefkowitz, international program director at the New York-
based  Natural Resources Defense Council . The department in April
found that the pipeline to carry Canadian oil to the U.S. Gulf
Coast would have “limited adverse environmental impacts.”  Should the project clear a final environmental assessment,
it must still be found to “serve the national interest,” a
review that will consider issues such as U.S. efforts to enhance
energy security and the pipeline’s impacts on “broader foreign
policy objectives,” according to the department. Opponents
include Senator Mike Johanns, a Nebraska Republican, who says
the current route threatens a major water aquifer in his state.  “My sense is that the most important concerns will not be
satisfied,” Casey-Lefkowitz said yesterday in an interview.
“These are major pieces of analysis identified as being needed.
We see no evidence that’s happening.”  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has final say on the
plan under an order issued in 2004 by President  George W. Bush .  The outcome on the pipeline will be an issue in President
Barack Obama’s campaign for re-election, said Michael Brune,
executive director of the San Francisco-based  Sierra Club .  ‘Big Polluters’  “The decision-making authority is solely the
president’s,” Brune said today on a conference call with other
groups. “It will be increasingly difficult to mobilize the
environmental base and to mobilize in particular young people to
volunteer, to knock on thousands of doors, to put in 16-hour
days, to donate money when they don’t think the president is
showing the courage to stand up to big polluters.”  Following a draft environmental review in April, the U.S.
 Environmental Protection Agency  said additional analysis was
needed on the potential for pipeline spills, how the project
would affect communities along the route and the project’s
impact on  climate change . Representative Henry Waxman, a
California Democrat, said the pipeline will carry oil from
Canada’s tar-sands region, “the dirtiest source of
transportation fuel currently available.”  ‘Substantively Failed’  The State Department has “substantively failed to respond
to a number of key statutory requirements,” Damon Moglen,
director of the Climate and Energy Program at the Washington-
based environmental group Friends of the Earth, said in an
interview. “If the State Department were being a neutral agency
here they would be demanding that TransCanada go back to the
drawing board and come up with an alternative.”  The Keystone XL pipeline would deliver 700,000 barrels of
crude a day from Alberta’s oil sands to the Gulf through
Montana,  South Dakota , Nebraska,  Kansas ,  Oklahoma  and  Texas .  “The State Department has been thorough in their
process,” Terry Cunha, a spokesman for Calgary-based
TransCanada, said in an interview.  The department has been reviewing Keystone XL since
September 2008, Cunha said.  “Keystone XL will promote oil dependency, which is
precisely what undermines America’s energy security,” Danielle
Droitsch, a senior adviser with the Natural Resources Defense
Council, said today on the conference call.  Public Meetings  Clinton said the final environmental assessment of the
project will be issued this month and that a final decision on
the pipeline will be made by the end of the year. The department
has scheduled public meetings to determine whether the project
“would serve the national interest.”  Meetings will be held in Texas, Kansas, Montana,  Nebraska ,
South Dakota, Oklahoma and in the  District of Columbia ,
beginning Sept. 26, according to a Federal Register note today.  Some Nebraska property owners are refusing to grant
TransCanada easements and say they will contest the line in
court, a tactic that may delay construction.  Johanns said he shares the concerns of environmental groups
such as  Friends of the Earth , Bold Nebraska and the  Sierra Club ,
which say a leak may pollute the Sandhills region and the
Ogallala aquifer, which supplies 80 percent of Nebraska’s
drinking water and serves 1.5 million people.  Supporters of the pipeline such as the  American Petroleum
Institute , a Washington-based group that represents oil and gas
companies, say the project will create jobs and deliver secure
energy supplies from a stable ally instead of the  Middle East .  Alberta  holds estimated reserves of 173 billion barrels of
oil based on current technology, the second-largest crude
reserves behind  Saudi Arabia , according to the Canadian
Association of Petroleum Producers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  