-- 
Credit Agricole Climbs as Earnings Beat Estimates, Profit Target Confirmed

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-08-25T16:27:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/credit-agricole-s-second-quarter-net-drops-11-on-greek-losses.html
Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  France ’s second-
largest bank by assets, reported a smaller decline in profit
than analysts estimated and reiterated its profit goal, sending
shares 4.8 percent higher in Paris trading.  Net income fell 11 percent to 339 million euros ($488
million) in the second quarter, said the bank, based near Paris.
That beat the 187 million-euro average estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Credit Agricole booked a 202 million-euro
pretax writedown on Greek sovereign debt.  Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Chifflet, who took over
in 2010, reiterated the bank’s goal for annual net income of
between 6 billion euros and 7 billion euros in 2014, helped by a
turnaround at the international retail-banking business.
Chifflet said in December that he plans to chart a “less
adventurous” strategy for  Credit Agricole  over the next 10
years compared with the past decade.  “Their domestic business is showing resistance,” said
 Pierre Flabbee , a Paris-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets
who has a “buy” rating on the stock.  Credit Agricole tumbled as much as 35 percent this month in
Paris trading as the sovereign debt crisis that started in
Greece more than a year ago threatened Italy, where the bank has
about 960 branches. Concern spread to France, pushing the extra
yield investors demand to hold French government debt rather
than German bunds to a euro-era record and driving the benchmark
CAC 40 stock index down as much as 21 percent in August.  The bank closed up 30 cents at 6.51 euros today, giving the
bank a market value of 16.3 billion euros.  Liquidity Reserves  Credit Agricole said it has sufficient funds to withstand a
decrease in the availability of short-term financing. The bank’s
“available liquidity reserves” amounted to more than 120
billion euros at the end of July, according to its website.  “I think that the liquidity market will reopen smoothly,
and if it doesn’t reopen we wouldn’t have any particular
worry,” Deputy CEO Michel Mathieu told journalists today.  Credit Agricole spent about 2.2 billion euros in 2006 to
amass a controlling stake in Emporiki Bank of  Greece  SA. The
French bank, which controls 96 percent of Emporiki, this month
got the Hellenic Capital Market Commission’s approval to buy out
other shareholders at 1.76 euros apiece, the bank said Aug. 9.
That’s 93 percent below the 2006 purchase price, according to
Bloomberg calculations.  Emporiki Loss  Emporiki’s second-quarter loss widened to 451 million euros
from 326 million euros a year earlier, the Athens-based lender
reported last month. Credit Agricole said on July 28 that “the
current and expected situation for the coming quarters makes
reaching Emporiki Bank’s goal for breakeven” by the end of 2012
more difficult.  Credit Agricole wrote down the remaining 359 million euros
of goodwill it had on its books tied to Emporiki in the second
quarter, the French bank said today.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, France’s biggest bank, wrote down its Greek
government debt by 534 million euros on Aug. 2, the same day it
reported a 1.1 percent increase in second-quarter profit. BNP
Paribas, unlike Credit Agricole and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
France’s third-largest bank by assets, doesn’t operate a branch
network in Greece.  Investment Bank  European Union leaders agreed to a 159 billion-euro aid
package for Greece on July 21, the country’s second following a
110 billion-euro bailout in May 2010. State asset sales will
make up part of the financing of that plan, while holders of
Greek debt will contribute an estimated 50 billion euros through
a bond exchange program.  Second-quarter profit from “ongoing” activities at Credit
Agricole’s corporate- and investment-banking unit fell 20
percent to 321 million euros, the bank said. Equities revenue
was “adversely affected by a sharp downturn in brokerage
business,” the bank said on its website.  Credit Agricole had 45 million euros in provisions and
writedowns in the second quarter from assets it’s winding down,
compared with 197 million euros a year earlier. The risky assets
include unhedged super-senior collaterized debt obligations
linked to U.S. residential mortgages, according to the bank’s
website.  Loan Provisions  Profit from the regional banks’ French retail network was
200 million euros, up from 181 million euros a year earlier. The
LCL French consumer-banking network had 184 million euros of
profit, compared with 188 million euros a year earlier.  Earnings at the asset management, insurance and private
banking division fell 12 percent to 347 million euros, as the
insurance business booked 131 million euros in provisions tied
to  Europe ’s support plan for Greece.  Overall provisions for doubtful loans rose to 1.13 billion
euros in the second quarter from 980 million euros a year
earlier.  Chifflet told reporters on a conference call today that
Credit Agricole plans no capital increase. Its core Tier 1
solvency ratio increased to 8.9 percent at the end of June from
8.7 percent at the end of March, the bank said.  “Our financial situation is solid, our liquidity plan is
solid,” Mathieu said on a call with analysts. Credit Agricole
has “limited dependency” on U.S. dollar money-market funds as
it refinances in dollars in  Asia , in the  Middle East  and “more
and more” from corporate clients, he said. “Every evening we
put $15 billion with the Fed,” Mathieu said, referring to the
U.S. Federal Reserve.  To help meet the 2014 profit goal, the bank said March 17
it plans to post earnings of more than 900 million euros at the
international-banking unit after a loss of 928 million euros
last year, as it opens more branches in countries such as  Italy .  In Italy, Credit Agricole’s largest market by staff outside
of France, the company plans to add 50 branches and 150,000
retail clients by 2014. It already has about 1.7 million
customers and 960 branches in Italy.  The bank expects overall revenue to total more than 25
billion euros in 2014, while return on equity, a measure of
profitability, may reach 10 percent to 12 percent in the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 