-- 
Crude Oil Futures Rise on Speculation of More Stimulus, Hurricane Threat

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-08-25T19:55:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/crude-oil-rises-on-speculation-fed-to-announce-plan-to-stimulate-economy.html
Crude oil increased on speculation
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will announce more
stimulus and as Hurricane Irene threatened to shut refineries on
the U.S. East Coast.  Prices rose on anticipation Bernanke will announce a third
round of quantitative easing at Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , tomorrow.
Irene is the strongest Atlantic storm to threaten the U.S. since
2005. The East Coast has 10 operating refineries that can
process 1.21 million barrels of oil a day, accounting for 7.1
percent of the country’s capacity.  “There’s a hard-to-defeat feeling that something fresh
will be announced at Jackson Hole tomorrow,” said  Peter Beutel ,
president of trading advisory company Cameron Hanover Inc. in
 New Canaan ,  Connecticut . “There’s an increasing focus on Irene
and all the damage it can do to refineries along the East Coast.
Gasoline is up a lot on this and pulling crude higher.”  Crude oil for October delivery increased 14 cents to settle
at $85.30 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures
have gained 18 percent from a year ago.  Brent oil for October settlement rose 47 cents, or 0.4
percent, to end the session at $110.62 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The contract touched $111.45,
the highest level since Aug. 17. The European benchmark contract
was at a premium of $25.32 to U.S. futures, down from a record
$26.21 on Aug. 19.  Eyes on Irene  Irene is on a course that would skirt the coast this
weekend before slamming into  New England . The Category 3
hurricane with maximum sustained winds of 115 miles (185
kilometers) per hour was 610 miles south of Cape Hatteras on the
North Carolina coast, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said in
an advisory at 2 p.m. Miami time.  Gasoline for September delivery rose 8.95 cents, or 3.1
percent, to $2.9679 a gallon in New York, the highest settlement
price since Aug. 2.  Bernanke will speak at the annual Fed symposium in  Jackson
Hole . European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet will
also make a presentation at the conference. Bernanke’s hint of a
round of asset purchases, or quantitative easing, during the
same event last year helped spur an eight-month rally in the
Standard & Poor’s 500.  “Traders will be cautious about making new bets before the
Jackson Hole speeches,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of
market research at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.
“We’re awaiting word from the oracles, Bernanke and Trichet,
tomorrow and Saturday.”  German Selling  Futures dropped as much as 2.5 percent during the session
after panic selling pushed  Germany ’s DAX Index lower and U.S.
unemployment benefit claims unexpectedly rose. The Labor
Department announced in  Washington  that jobless claims climbed
by 5,000 to 417,000 in the week ended Aug. 20.  “If we get a good piece of economic news prices move
higher and if there’s a negative headline prices drop,” said
 Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank in
Washington. “We will have to get some harder data on whether
there will be a third round of quantitative easing.”  U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 1.1 percent annual
pace in the second quarter, down from the 1.3 percent that the
government estimated last month, according to the median of
responses in a Bloomberg News survey of economists before a
Commerce Department report tomorrow.  Libya  Production  Libya, holder of Africa’s largest crude reserves, will
probably restore production to about 300,000 barrels a day over
the next two to three months and then to 500,000 a day by the
end of the year, Julian Lee, senior energy analyst at the
London-based Centre for Global Energy Studies, said yesterday in
a telephone interview.  Saudi Arabia  has boosted supplies this
year by about 1 million barrels a day partly in response to the
suspension of exports from Libya.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
increase shipments through the middle of September as a program
of emergency supply release by consumer nations ends, according
to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  Exports will rise 0.1 percent to 22.69 million barrels a
day in the four weeks to Aug. 10, the Halifax, England-based
researcher said. That compares with 22.76 million barrels in the
month to Aug. 13. The data excludes Ecuador and Angola.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 576,348
contracts as of 3:21 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 528,667
contracts yesterday, 22 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.48 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 