-- 
Crude Falls, Narrowing Weekly Gain, on Doubts About U.S. Stimulus Measures

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-08-26T12:13:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/crude-oil-drops-from-two-day-high-on-signs-of-slowing-u-s-economic-growth.html
Oil declined, narrowing the first
weekly gain in five, on speculation that U.S. measures to revive
growth will fall short of expectations and that potential fuel
shortages caused by Hurricane Irene might be limited.  Futures fell as much as 1.4 percent in  New York  before a
speech by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  today and a
U.S. government report that may show economic growth slowed in
the second quarter. Gasoline fell after closing at a three-week
high yesterday on concern Irene may sap fuel consumption.  “The market will be extremely disappointed at what happens
at Jackson Hole,” said  Michael Hewson , a London-based market
analyst at CMC Markets, which handles about $240 million a day
in U.S. crude contracts. “The markets have built themselves up
that Bernanke will pull a rabbit out of a hat, but I don’t think
he is going to.”  Crude for October delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  fell as much as $1.16 to $84.14 a barrel and was at
$84.20 at 1:05 p.m. London time. Yesterday, the contract added
14 cents to $85.30. Prices are up 2.4 percent this week, heading
for their first weekly gain since the five days ended July 22,
and are up 15 percent in the past year.  Bernanke is scheduled to speak at an annual Kansas City Fed
conference in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  will also make a presentation.  Brent Premium  Brent oil for October settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was down 56 cents at $110.06, set for a
1.3 percent climb this week. The contract was at a premium of
$25.86 to U.S. futures, compared with a record settlement of
$26.21 on Aug. 19.  The European benchmark’s premium to New York’s West Texas
Intermediate crude shrank the most in five weeks on Aug. 22
after rebels in  Libya  entered Tripoli, paving the way for the
country’s oil production to resume. The spread has since widened
as leader  Muammar Qaddafi  eluded capture, stoking speculation a
resumption in output may take longer than expected. The nation
holds  Africa ’s largest crude reserves.  Gasoline was down 0.4 percent in New York after climbing
3.1 percent yesterday on concern Hurricane Irene may disrupt
refinery operations on the U.S. East Coast.  Irene was downgraded to a Category 2 hurricane and was
moving north at 14 miles (22 kilometers) per hour with sustained
winds of 110 mph, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said in an
advisory at 8 a.m. Miami time.  Emergency Declarations  The storm was 375 miles south-southwest of Cape Hatteras
and some re-intensification is possible today, the center said.
Governors from  North Carolina  to  Connecticut  issued emergency
declarations.  The U.S. East Coast has 10 operating oil refineries with a
capacity of 1.21 million barrels a day, according to the Energy
Department. The area accounts for 7.1 percent of total U.S.
operating capacity.  The Commerce Department may say today that U.S. gross
domestic product expanded at a 1.1 percent annual pace in the
second quarter, down from the 1.3 percent that the government
estimated last month, according to the median estimate of 81
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Crude may drop next week as Libyan rebels consolidate their
hold on the country and begin taking steps to restore crude
exports, based on a separate Bloomberg News poll.  Seventeen of 34 analysts and traders, or 50 percent,
forecast oil will decline through Sept. 2, the survey showed.
Nine respondents, or 26 percent, predicted prices will increase
and eight estimated there will be little change during the
period. Last week, 42 percent of survey respondents projected
oil will fall.  Deutsche Bank AG cut its price forecasts for West Texas
Intermediate and Brent crude oil for 2011. New York futures will
average $94.25 a barrel this year, down from a previous estimate
of $100, the bank said in an e-mailed report today. It reduced
its estimate for Brent to $112 a barrel from $114.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  