-- 
Czech Currency, Bonds Gain on Speculation Moody’s, Fitch Will Match S&P

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-08-25T16:26:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/czech-currency-bonds-gain-on-speculation-moody-s-fitch-will-match-s-p.html
The Czech koruna gained for a third
day while five-year bond yields fell to a record on speculation
Moody’s Investors Service and  Fitch Ratings  will raise the
country’s assessment after  Standard & Poor’s  upgrade yesterday.  The Czech currency strengthened as much as 0.6 percent and
traded up 0.2 percent to 24.276 per euro by 4:45 p.m. in Prague.
The five-year yield tumbled a second day, sliding 15 basis
points to 2.19 percent, the lowest since Bloomberg began
tracking the Czech government bond index in 1997.  S&P raised the European Union country to AA- from A, citing
changes in its rating criteria, the government’s low debt and
the “prudently managed and balanced economy.” That’s S&P’s
fourth-highest ranking, and above the country’s A1 at Moody’s
Investors Service and A+ at Fitch Ratings.  The new rating is “entirely justified and highlights the
Czech economy’s strong fundamentals,” RBC analysts led by  Nick Chamie  in Toronto wrote in a report to clients today. “Moody’s
and Fitch rate the  Czech Republic  one notch below S&P. We expect
upgrades from both in the coming months.”  Czech 10-year yields slid 8 basis points to 3.23 percent,
headed for the lowest close since 2005. BNP Paribas SA
recommended investors buy the government’s 10-year debt and the
koruna in an e-mailed report to clients today.  “We agree with the decision and we expect other rating
agencies to follow suit,” strategists at BNP Paribas led by
Bartosz Pawlowski in  London  wrote in the research note.  Fitch, Moody’s  Credit-default swaps, which fall as investor perceptions of
creditworthiness improve, declined to 115 basis points from 118
yesterday, according to data provider CMA. That is the lowest
price in emerging  Europe  and compares with  France  at 161 points
and Austria at 119, both top-rated at S&P, Moody’s and Fitch.  Fitch affirmed the Czech Republic’s A+  credit rating  with a
positive outlook a month ago, citing improving public finances
and progress in pension-system changes. Further budget-deficit
reductions and implementation of the pension overhaul are needed
to warrant a rating upgrade, Edward Parker, head of sovereign-
credit research for Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa , said today.  “The key triggers for a potential upgrade would be further
success in fiscal consolidation,” Parker said in a telephone
interview from London. “There has been significant progress but
we still think there is some further way to go.”  Moody’s was not immediately able to comment when reached by
telephone.  Parliament’s budget committee yesterday approved a pension
overhaul plan, sending the legislation to the final reading at
the lower house. The changes are to boost private retirement
savings and curb future budget deficits. Premier Petr Necas’s
government has pledged to cut its fiscal shortfall to less than
the EU limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2013 from
4.7 percent last year and to have a balanced budget from 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Kirkland at   skirkland@bloomberg.net  