-- 
Danica Patrick Announces Move to Nascar From IndyCar Full-Time Next Year

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-08-25T17:13:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/danica-patrick-announces-move-to-nascar-from-indycar-full-time-next-year.html
Danica Patrick will move to Nascar
from IndyCar Series racing full-time next season, joining Tony Stewart’s Stewart-Haas Racing team for eight to 10 races in the
top-level Sprint Cup series.  Patrick, whose debut in Nascar’s second-tier Nationwide
Series last year ended in a fiery crash, had driven part-time
for Dale Earnhardt Jr.’s JR Motorsports stock-car team for part
of the past two seasons. She’ll race the whole season on the
Nationwide Series for that team, then compete for Stewart-Haas
at the top level.  Her move to Nascar was disclosed during a press conference
in Phoenix, which was broadcast on the racing series’ Internet
site.  While Patrick said she’ll split her time on the two Nascar
circuits, she hasn’t decided on her exact 2012 schedule or if
she will race in the Indianapolis 500, IndyCar’s most
prestigious race.  “We’re not sure right now,” Patrick said. “There are a
lot of things that have to come together. I love the Indy 500
and it’s something I would love to continue to do, but with the
schedule being up in the air, we’re not sure if that’s going to
be in the future or not.”  Patrick’s move comes as Nascar tries to rebound from
attendance and television-ratings declines over the last three
years. The  Daytona Beach , Florida-based circuit’s Sprint Cup
ended three years of declining viewership on News
Corp.’s Fox this year, yet fell short of the numbers generated
in 2007, the first year of the network’s $1.8 billion rights
deal with Nascar, Sporting News Wire Service reported in June.  Top-10 Finishes  Patrick, 29, finished 24th in the Nationwide Series NAPA
Auto Parts 200 in  Montreal  on Aug. 20, her seventh race of the
season. She has three top-10 finishes in the series in 2011,
including fourth place in  Las Vegas  in March. She’s 27th
overall.  The only woman to lead laps in the Indianapolis 500,
Patrick finished third in 2009. In 13 IndyCar events this
season, Patrick has eight top 10 finishes and ranks 12th in the
standings. Her only IndyCar win came in 2008 at the Japan 300.  She’ll continue to race the IndyCar series until moving to
Nascar.  “As a race car driver I would have loved to have won every
race, but that’s pretty hard to do,” Patrick said. “The
IndyCar season is not over, so there’s still time to win more.”  Nascar races full-bodied cars primarily on enclosed tracks.
IndyCar uses open-wheel racers similar to Formula One cars and
competes on both ovals and road courses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at  at
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 