-- 
Denmark Reaches Bank Deal to Spur Mergers

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-08-25T10:02:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/denmark-reaches-bank-deal-to-spur-mergers.html
Danish lawmakers agreed on the
country’s fourth bank bill since 2008 in an effort to spur
takeovers and sidestep the European Union’s harshest resolution
laws.  The package, which amends legislation that triggered senior
creditor losses in bank insolvencies, will allow the state to
assume troubled lenders’ bad loans in the event of takeovers,
Economy Minister Brian Mikkelsen said today in Copenhagen. The
cost of the plan, which also allows merging banks to tap the
depositor guarantee fund, will be borne by the industry, he
said.  Danish banks have faced an international funding wall this
year after senior creditors took losses on the failures of
regional lenders Fjordbank Mors A/S and Amagerbanken A/S. The
country’s lenders rose in Copenhagen trading today as lawmakers
representing a majority in parliament said they agreed on the
proposal’s details. The legislature must still approve the bill,  “We’ve provided a framework for healthy banks to take over
unhealthy ones,” Mikkelsen said. “The government will not lose
money and the sector will pick up the bill.”  The government’s previous efforts to prevent failures by
encouraging consolidation had failed as banks balked at the
prospect of taking over bad commercial and agricultural loans.  Today’s plan will help provide funds in the event of
takeovers by extending state-guarantees on bank bonds by as much
as three years. The government will also set up a board that
will identify the country’s too-big-to-fail banks.  ‘Acute Situation’  Danske Bank A/S, the country’s biggest, rose as much as 5.4
percent and gained 3.60 kroner, or 5 percent, to 75.85 kroner at
11:41 a.m. local time. Jyske Bank A/S, the second-largest listed
lender, climbed as much as 4.7 percent, while third-largest
Sydbank A/S jumped as much as 6 percent.  Denmark ’s finance industry union, which represents 55,300
employees, on Aug. 22 urged politicians to disregard election
politics and change resolution laws as banks face an “acute
situation.” Denmark will hold general elections by Nov. 12.  The government this week said the country’s budget deficit
will widened amid measures to stimulate the economy. It also cut
the economic growth forecast for this year to 1.3 percent from
1.9 percent forecast in May, after introducing a stimulus
package that it said was fully funded to jumpstart a frozen
housing market.  Lenders including Aalborg-based Spar Nord Bank A/S,
Denmark’s fourth-biggest listed bank, are dumping assets to
generate cash in the absence of market demand for their bonds.
Skive, Denmark-based Sparbank A/S today said it will cut 35
jobs.  Guarantee Ends  The liquidity squeeze had threatened to worsen as many of
Denmark’s 120 lenders are required to refinance $35 billion in
state-backed debt by 2013 when the guarantee ends.  Standard &
Poor’s  said July 28 a further 15 banks in the Nordic country
“could default,” costing as much as $2.3 billion in the next
three years.  A proposal by Nykredit A/S, the country’s biggest mortgage
lender, to pool borrowing needs for small banks stalled amid
concerns investors wouldn’t buy the new products. “I think the
solution will be that people have to go to the market
individually,” Nykredit Chief Executive Officer Peter Engberg Jensen said Aug. 23.  The central bank said last week it will accept bank loans
as collateral. The measure, which becomes effective Oct. 1 and
runs until further notice, will “ensure the banking industry
has sufficient liquidity ahead of the 2013 expiration of state-
guaranteed bonds,” Thomas Hovard, chief analyst in corporate
bonds for Danske Markets, a unit of Danske Bank, said.  To contact the reporter on this story
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  