-- 
Diageo Surges After Posting Profit Growth on Emerging-Market Whisky Sales

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-08-25T08:49:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/diageo-surges-on-full-year-profit-growth.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s largest
distiller, surged in London trading after reporting improved
full-year profit and targeting accelerated sales growth.  The stock gained as much as 6 percent, the biggest intraday
advance since October of last year. Full-year operating profit
rose 5 percent on a so-called organic basis as higher sales of
whisky, including the Johnnie Walker brand, in emerging markets
offset a slide in Europe. That matched analysts’ estimates.  Diageo set a “medium-term” goal to improve sales on a so-
called organic basis by an average 6 percent, stronger than last
year’s 5 percent growth. The distiller said business in July and
August held at the levels of the previous six months, providing
some relief for investors after brewer  Heineken NV (HEIA)  yesterday
reported a weakening in sales during those months.  “The clarity on the medium-term outlook is welcome,” said
 Martin Deboo , an analyst at Investec Securities in London.
Diageo’s commitment to “decent margin improvement” is also
positive, said Deboo, who has a “hold” rating on the stock.  The maker of Smirnoff vodka and Captain Morgan rum said
today that it’s seeking to improve operating margin, a measure
of profitability, by 200 basis points in the next three years,
and to grow earnings per share at a “double-digit” rate.  “Medium-term guidance looks to be setting targets that are
tough but achievable and also make Diageo look attractive as an
investment proposition if achieved,” Phil Carroll, an analyst
at Shore Capital in  London , wrote today in a note.  Shares Jump  Diageo’s shares traded at 1,171 pence as of 9:30 a.m. in
London, up 4.7 percent, or 53 pence. The stock is down 1.2
percent this year, compared with an 11 percent drop in the U.K.
benchmark FTSE 100 index.  “The news from Heineken yesterday was discouraging for
people,” Deirdre Mahlan, Diageo’s chief financial officer, said
today in a telephone interview. “We just wanted to make sure
our good news was heard by the market.”  Heineken, the world’s third-biggest brewer by volume,
yesterday fell by a record in intraday trading after saying it
anticipates annual profit that was little changed.  Mahlan said business at Diageo in July and August had
“continued along the trajectory we saw” in the second half.  Diageo, which spent 1.6 billion pounds last year expanding
into emerging markets, said sales of Scotch whisky and its more
expensive “reserve brands,” including Tanqueray Ten gin and
Ron Zacapa rum, helped offset tough conditions in  Europe .  Marketing Spending  Chief Executive Officer  Paul Walsh  said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today that growth is “polarized” in
Europe, held back by Greece and  Spain . Sales slid 3 percent in
the region. Diageo expects the volume of drinks sold in Europe
this year to show “flattish to low growth,” Mahlan said.  Full-year net profit rose to 1.9 billion pounds from 1.6
billion pounds a year earlier, compared with an average analyst
estimate of 1.93 billion pounds. Net sales rose to 9.9 billion
pounds, Diageo said.  The company increased its marketing spending by 8 percent
to 15.5 percent of sales. Diageo took a “conscious decision to
be investing significantly behind our brands,” Mahlan said,
particularly behind emerging markets.  Sales and operating profit rose in all regions apart from
Europe, the distiller said. Sales in  North America  rose 3
percent as consumers bought more spirits in the U.S., the
world’s biggest market, including Ciroc vodka.  Acquisition Opportunities  Diageo has a “strong balance sheet,” Mahlan said,
enabling it to look for acquisition opportunities in emerging
markets. It completed the $2.1 billion acquisition of  Turkey ’s
Mey Alkollu Ickiler Sanayi & Ticaret AS yesterday, adding
spirits including Yeni Raki. The company was in talks to buy
Jose Cuervo, the world’s biggest tequila brand, from its family
owners, three people with knowledge of the matter said in May.  “We’ve said before that Jose Cuervo is a great brand,”
Mahlan said. “Should the owners choose to sell it, we’d
certainly be interested in it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 