-- 
Dollar Decline Benefits U.S. Economy as Presaged by Feldstein

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-08-25T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/dollar-decline-proves-boon-to-u-s-economy-as-presaged-by-martin-feldstein.html
A weak dollar may be one of the
bright spots in the  U.S. economy , and it could be the gift that
keeps on giving.  “A lower dollar means more exports, and it also means a
shift from consuming imported products to consuming goods and
services that we produce in the United States,” said Harvard
University economics professor  Martin Feldstein  in a telephone
interview.  As central bankers from across the globe meet at an annual
conference starting tomorrow in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, financial
markets are waiting to see whether Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signals more stimulus measures to help revive the
world’s largest economy. A third round of asset purchases, or
so-called quantitative easing, would weaken the dollar further,
Feldstein said.  A declining dollar makes American-made goods from companies
such as  Deere & Co. (DE)  and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  more competitive in
foreign markets. It also lays the groundwork to spur domestic
demand for U.S.-produced items as import prices rise.  The dollar has fallen 6.3 percent this year as of 4:15 p.m.
in New York yesterday, making it the worst performer among the
10 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation Weighted
Currency Indexes, and is down 49 percent since reaching a record
high in 1985. American exports have climbed 16 percent this year
through June compared with a year ago, according to Commerce
Department data.  Growth in the U.S. has slowed since early 2010, when gross
domestic product expanded at a 3.9 percent annual pace. GDP rose
at a 1.3 percent rate in the second quarter of this year after a
0.4 percent pace from January through March, according to the
Commerce Department.  Slower Than Expected  The slower-than-forecast growth “furthers the belief that
there might be some more easing, coming in with more stimulus,
and that would obviously put even more pressure on the dollar,”
said  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales at Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. in  New York .   The weakening currency has another benefit for the U.S.,
according to Feldstein, who’s also a member of the Business
Cycle Dating Committee of the National Bureau of Economic
Research, which determines when recessions start and end.  “One of the things about the declining dollar is that it
doesn’t add to the national debt,” he said. The currency’s
slump also hasn’t caused an acceleration in inflation. The cost
of living in the U.S. increased 27 percent during the last 10
years, compared with 30 percent in the previous decade and 49
percent in the 10 years before that, according to the Labor
Department’s consumer-price index.  Record Lows  Borrowing costs and interest rates also are at record lows.
The Fed pledged on Aug. 9 to keep its target for overnight loans
among banks near zero until at least mid-2013. The Fed cut the
rate in December 2008, which has contributed to all-time lows
for  mortgage rates . The average 30-year fixed-rate contract was
4.15 percent in the week ended Aug. 18, down from 4.42 percent a
year ago, according to  Freddie Mac , the government-supported
mortgage financier based in McLean, Virginia.  Deere, the world’s largest farm-equipment maker, is among
U.S. manufacturers benefiting from a weaker dollar. A 22 percent
increase in third-quarter sales to $8.37 billion included “a
favorable currency-translation effect,” and demand in  Asia  is
“forecast to rise sharply again this year,” the Moline,
Illinois-based company said in an Aug. 17 statement.  Currency Benefit  Sales at Caterpillar, the world’s largest construction- and
mining-equipment maker, “actually benefited $351 million” from
a weaker dollar in April-June compared with the second quarter
of 2010, Michael DeWalt, director of investor relations at the
Peoria, Illinois-based company, said on a July 22 conference
call with analysts.  Second-quarter sales of $30.1 billion for  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) ’s international unit included a $2.3 billion “currency-
exchange translation benefit,” the Bentonville, Arkansas-based
company said in an Aug. 16 statement. Wal-Mart is the world’s
largest retailer.  Other companies -- including  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the world’s top
supplier of database software, and  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ,
which gets more than half its sales from overseas -- have cited
gains from favorable currency exchange rates in earnings
reports.  While Feldstein forecasts further declines in the dollar,
he said he isn’t advocating for the currency to weaken.  Curb Export Demand  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the U.S.
wants a strong dollar, while the currency’s appreciation may
curb demand for U.S. exports and make it more difficult for
President Barack Obama to reach his goal of doubling shipments
by 2015.  “A strong dollar will always be in the interest of the
 United States ,” Geithner said in June at an event in
 Washington .  A declining dollar weighs on personal incomes, leaving
households to pay more for imported items that would go up in
cost because of decreased buying power, Feldstein said.  Imports have climbed 16 percent this year through June
compared with the year-ago period, according to Commerce
Department figures. The cost of goods shipped to the U.S. so far
this year is up 8.9 percent, Labor Department data show.  Policy makers, particularly at the Fed, are running out of
monetary tools to stimulate the U.S. economy. Another round of
asset purchases would prompt a quicker decline in the dollar,
according to Feldstein.  “If they did a QE3, the domestic effect of that would be
relatively small,” Feldstein said. “We’ll get some of it,
potentially, through the  exchange rate , so that would simply
accelerate this exchange-rate effect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  