-- 
Dollar Falls as Risk Appetite Increases After Bernanke Speech; Franc Drops

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-08-26T21:21:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/dollar-trades-near-week-high-as-easing-bets-fade-before-bernanke-speech.html
The dollar fell versus most major
peers as stocks rose after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated the economy isn’t weak enough to need
immediate stimulus, encouraging demand for higher-risk assets.  The Swiss franc tumbled versus the euro as UBS AG said it
may levy a temporary excess balance fee to stem the inflow of
the currency into its customers’ cash clearing accounts. The
Dollar Index had rallied earlier after Bernanke, at a conference
in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , failed to signal new measures to shore
up the economy that would risk debasing the U.S. currency.  “We seem to have shifted from initial risk-off to risk-
on,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10 foreign-
exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York. “Bernanke
was at least reasonably optimistic that we weren’t double
dipping and heading for a recession in the U.S. People do want
to get back into risk, but there is very little commitment.”  The dollar fell 0.8 percent to $1.4499 per euro at 5 p.m.
in  New York , losing 0.7 percent for the week. It depreciated 1.1
percent to 76.64 yen, while the Japanese currency rose 0.2
percent to 111.17 per euro. The Swiss franc dropped 2.5 percent
to 1.1690 per euro and touched 1.1736, the weakest level since
July 25. It fell 1.7 percent to 80.63 centimes per dollar.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners, fell 0.8 percent to 73.712, from 74.279
yesterday. Earlier it rose 0.3 percent.  The greenback slid against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts except  Taiwan ’s dollar and the Swiss franc.  ‘Return to Growth’  Bernanke indicated that, while the economy isn’t
deteriorating enough to warrant any immediate stimulus, the
central bank still has tools to stimulate growth.  “The growth fundamentals of the  United States  do not
appear to have been permanently altered by the shocks of the
past four years,”  Bernanke told central bankers and economists
gathered at the Kansas City Fed’s annual conference in  Jackson
Hole . “It may take some time, but we can reasonably expect to
see a return to growth rates and employment levels consistent
with those underlying fundamentals.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.5 percent after
losing as much as 2 percent, and the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies
CRB Index of raw materials increased 1 percent.  Last year at the conference, Bernanke said the Fed would do
all that it can” to ensure a continuation of the economic
recovery and that buying more debt might be warranted if growth
slowed. Two months later, policy makers announced a $600 billion
second round of asset purchases that ended in June.  ‘Work to Weaken’  “ Monetary policy  will still work to weaken the  U.S.
dollar ,” said  Camilla Sutton , chief currency strategist in
Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit. “He’s
just highlighting, as he’s already said, that the Fed has the
tools, and he’s laid them out and they will use them if they
need to.”  The Fed pledged after a meeting Aug. 9 to hold the
benchmark  interest rate  at almost zero until at least mid-2013
after growth that was “considerably slower” than anticipated.  The euro pared earlier gains after a Commerce Department
report showed U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 1 percent
annual rate from April through June, down from a 1.3 percent
prior estimate. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 1.1 percent increase. The expansion
capped the weakest six months of the economic recovery that
began in mid-2009.  Confidence among U.S. consumers dropped in August to the
lowest level since November 2008. The Thomson Reuters/University
of Michigan final index of consumer sentiment fell to 55.7, from
63.7 in July, data showed today.  Franc’s Strength  The dollar has declined 2.1 percent in the past three
months against nine developed-nation peers, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The euro has
appreciated 0.6 percent and the yen has gained 4.5 percent. The
Swiss franc strengthened the most, 5.9 percent.  The franc extended a third weekly loss against the euro on
speculation Swiss policy makers will introduce new measures to
cap its gains and that local banks may start charging customers
for franc deposits.  Zurich-based UBS said it may levy a temporary excess
balance fee to curb the inflow of Swiss francs, citing “the
prevailing market conditions which in particular affect the
Swiss franc.” It commented in a note to bank clients sent via
the Swift system and confirmed to Bloomberg.  ‘Pay for the Privilege’  “If you are going to have to pay for the privilege to have
that deposit, that’s going to dis-incentivize some,” said  Jens Nordvig , a managing director of currency research in New York at
Nomura Holdings Inc. “For the Swiss franc it really matters,
because the bulk of the money is parked in deposit form.”  The yen advanced for the first time in three days versus
the dollar as Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said he was
stepping down after parliament passed the final two pieces of
his legislative agenda.  New Zealand ’s dollar was the biggest winner against the
greenback, climbing 1.7 percent to 84.07 U.S. cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  