-- 
Driver Shortage Shows Gain in U.S. Truck Cargo: Freight Markets

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-08-25T17:26:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/driver-shortage-shows-gain-in-u-s-truck-cargo-freight-markets.html
U.S. trucking companies may face a
30 percent surge in wage bills by 2014 as rising demand for
freight shipments threatens to push the industry’s driver
shortage to the longest on record.  The current shortfall will double in a year to about
300,000 full-time positions, or 10 percent of the workforce,
said Noel Perry, managing director at consultant FTR Associates
in Nashville,  Indiana . A three-year deficiency would top the
300,000 vacancies lasting for about a year in 2004, he said.  A gap between cargo demand and the driver supply adds to
evidence that the freight industry is recovering. While the
stock-market slump since July weighs on truckers such as J.B.
Hunt Transport Services Inc., 2011’s gains in cargo tonnage fit
“with an economy that is growing very slowly,” the American
Trucking Associations trade group said this week.  “The truck-driver population is growing at less than 1
percent a year,” said Jeff Kauffman, a Sterne Agee & Leach Inc.
analyst in  New York  who follows truck and railroad stocks.
“Freight’s growing at closer to 4 percent.”  Truckers’ shipping volume, a barometer of the broader
economy, was up 11 percent in July from a year earlier,
according to Cass Information Systems.  Echo Global Logistics
Inc. (ECHO) , a Chicago-based provider of freight services, said last
month it’s “very optimistic about continued growth in the
second half.”  U.S. Regulations  The shortfalls seen in previous freight rebounds are
getting a new twist, according to Perry. U.S. safety regulations
curbing drivers’ work hours mean companies must have more
employees. Also now in place are rules helping companies assess
applicants’ driving histories -- weeding out bad risks while
also shrinking the pool of applicants.  Rising wages would add to the cost pressures from a bigger
workforce and higher prices for new trucks required by federal
emissions rules.  Truckers also are paying more for  diesel fuel , which
averaged 30 percent more a gallon this year through Aug. 23 than
the same period in 2010, putting them at a competitive
disadvantage to railroads’ superior efficiency.  “Truck is more expensive than rail already,” Kauffman
said in an interview. “If it was purely a decision based on
price, I probably already have moved to rail. But the flip side
is, there’s a service difference” favoring truckers because of
their greater speed.  Index Drops  The Standard & Poor’s Midcap Trucking Index slid 11 percent
in 2011 before today, and remains 53 percent below its peak in
2007, before the last U.S. recession. J.B. Hunt, the biggest
trucker by market value, has dropped 4.3 percent this year. The
 S&P 500 Railroads Index (S5RAIL)  was down 1.6 percent.  Revenue per mile driven excluding fuel surcharges for dry
van shipments has advanced 13 percent to $1.55 since the low
reached in 2009 as freight demand plunged in the recession,
according to industry researcher Truckloadrate.com. Trucks carry
about 29 percent of domestic cargo, as measured by revenue ton-
miles, compared with about 39 percent for railroads, according
to the U.S. Bureau of Transportation Statistics.  Drivers are in short supply even as U.S. joblessness
exceeds 9 percent. They travel an average of three weeks at a
time at truckload carriers, which make the longest hauls and put
goods from just one customer on each trailer, said Bert Johnson,
senior director of human resources and driver recruitment at the
truckload unit of  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based  Con-way Inc. (CNW)   One-Year Tenure  Company-employed drivers, who don’t own their rigs, earn
average salaries in the mid-$40,000 range, based on figures from
Norita Taylor, a spokeswoman for the Owner-Operator Independent
Driver Association in Grain Valley,  Missouri . FTR’s Perry
estimated a driver’s typical tenure at one year.  “If I get laid off, I’m not going to immediately go drive
a truck,” said Bob Costello, the trucking association’s chief
economist. “I’m going to try to get another job in my field,
something where I’m home every night.”  Trucking-labor costs declined during the recession, so some
of the projected wage increases will be “catch-up,” according
to Perry, who predicted the 30 percent boost in wages by 2014.
Labor costs gained 21 percent in the last recovery, he said.  “If we decide to raise rates for drivers, conversely we’re
going to raise rates for customers,” said Johnson, the
executive at Con-way, the largest U.S. trucker by sales.  Price Pressure?  That may affect consumers through higher prices, according
to the National Industrial Transportation League, an Arlington,
Virginia-based trade group for large shippers whose members
include  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and DuPont Co.  “If the increases are substantial, that’s always the very
hard balance that has to go into making determinations on
product prices,” said Peter Gatti, NIT League executive vice
president.  Owens Corning (OC) , which relies chiefly on trucks to move its
home-insulation products, is adjusting operations to cope with
the shortage.  Truckers with too-few drivers and strong demand can be
choosy in giving priority to the most-lucrative, easy-to-haul
cargo, said Mike Cramer, director of logistics and customer
operations. So the Toledo, Ohio-based company is seeking to cut
the time needed for pickups and deliveries, he said.  “We’re really trying to make our freight more attractive
than others,” Cramer said.  Spending Rises  J.B. Hunt’s spending on wages, salaries and benefits rose
12 percent last quarter from a year earlier, compared with 15
percent for the trucking unit’s weekly sales per tractor.
Lowell, Arkansas-based J.B. Hunt ended 2010 with 15,223
employees, about 1,100 fewer than in 2005.  Saia Inc. (SAIA)  said this month it would increase wages by 2.5
percent for drivers and many other employees. The added cost
will be $10 million, according to the Johns Creek, Georgia-based
company. That is about 1.1 percent of 2010 operating expenses.  At Con-way’s truckload unit, some routes are being limited
to only four to five states so drivers can be home once a week.
A new “lifestyle” program allows drivers to alternate between
two weeks of driving and time off.  “Young drivers get in and sometimes they’re not aware of
what it takes to be a driver, especially if they have got kids
at home,” said Miles Verhoef, an independent owner-operator
from Tomah,  Wisconsin , who worked as a company driver for 16
years. “It’s very hard on family life.”  Shippers and truckers also are shifting some loads to
railroads to avoid long highway drives. Revenue from so-called
intermodal cargos, which can move by road, rail and ship, rose
last quarter at each of the four biggest publicly traded U.S.
railroads.  For a permanent fix to the industry’s shortages, FTR’s
Perry estimated that long-haul novices earning $40,000 annually
and experienced drivers at $70,000 would need to see increases
that might top his projection of a 30 percent boost by 2014.  “What does it take to make a normal person happy with
being away from home two straight weeks?” Perry said. “The
rule of thumb is we’ll probably have to pay these guys between
$60,000 and $90,000.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  