-- 
Dubai’s Shares Rise to Week High on Bets Drop Overdone, U.S. Economic Data

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-08-25T10:46:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/dubai-s-shares-snap-two-day-decline-on-bets-drop-overdone-u-s-reports.html
Dubai’s shares rose to a one-week
high on speculation a decline this month was overdone and after
U.S. economic data beat estimates, easing concern that the
world’s biggest economy is slowing. Crude oil rose.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest
tower, advanced 0.7 percent.  Dubai Financial Market  PJSC, the
only Gulf Arab stock market to sell stock to the public, gained
the most in almost two months. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  rose 0.5
percent to 1,465.01, the highest since Aug. 18, at the 2 p.m.
close in Dubai, trimming this month’s decline to 3.5 percent.
About 53 million shares were traded compared with a 12-month
daily average of 124 million, according to data on Bloomberg.  “The declines have not been justified, but there is
uncertainty that is keeping liquidity out of the market,” said
Mohammed Ali Yasin, chief investment officer for CAPM Investment
PJSC in  Abu Dhabi . Investors are “tracking developments in the
U.S. and Europe, but volumes are low.”  Investors are waiting for a speech by Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, tomorrow to
see whether the central banker will signal more stimulus
measures to help revive the economy. U.S. data yesterday showed
orders for durable goods climbed more than forecast in July.
Home prices rose 0.9 percent in June from the previous month,
beating estimates, a separate report showed.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.4 percent at 2:25 p.m.
in Dubai, while the MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose less than
0.1 percent. The 31 companies in Dubai’s benchmark gauge are
valued at an average 8.5 times estimated earnings, compared with
9.6 times for the Stoxx  Europe  measure and 9.8 times for the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  Oil Gains  Crude oil for October delivery advanced as much as 0.9
percent to $85.90 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation
Council, including  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar, supply about a fifth
of the world’s oil.  The Islamic holy month of Ramadan, when Muslims fast from
sunrise to sunset and business activity slows, began Aug. 1.
Gulf states will celebrate Eid, which marks the end of Ramadan,
next week.  Emaar rose the most since Aug. 22 to 2.78 dirhams and Dubai
Financial Market rallied 2.7 percent, the most since July 3, to
1.15 dirhams.  Oman’s MSM 30 Index climbed 1.2 percent, while Bahrain’s BB
All Share Index fell less than 0.1 percent. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM) 
added 0.8 percent and the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  increased 0.1
percent. Saudi Arabia’s market was closed for the weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  