-- 
Earthquake Threatens Dominion’s Plan to Add Reactor at Epicenter

-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-08-25T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/earthquake-threatens-dominion-s-plan-to-add-reactor-at-epicenter.html
The earthquake that rattled  Dominion
Resources Inc (D) .’s North Anna power station is renewing a 40-year-
old debate over whether a nuclear plant should be built over a
dormant fault line there, threatening the company’s plans for a
third reactor at the site.  This week’s 5.8-magnitude temblor has given opponents of
the plant more ammunition to question the adequacy of federal
safeguards governing reactors located near seismic hot spots.
The rare East Coast quake was the largest in  Virginia  in more
than a century and cut power to North Anna’s two reactors, which
lie less than 15 miles (24 kilometers) from the tremor’s
epicenter.  “The quake that people say couldn’t happen here has
happened here,” said Louis Zeller, science director for the
 Blue Ridge Environmental Defense League , an anti-nuclear group,
in an interview. “This is a wake-up call.”  The earthquake bolsters support for a U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission task force proposal that plants expand
their reviews of seismic risks, said Jim Warren, executive
director of  North Carolina Waste Awareness & Reduction Network .  “The industry really must begin to look beyond” events
that reactors were designed to withstand, Warren said in a phone
interview. That includes hurricanes and flooding as well as
earthquakes.  Third Reactor Planned  Dominion, based in Richmond, is considering building a
third reactor designed by  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. (7011)  at
North Anna, located about 40 miles from Virginia’s capital. A
final decision may not be made until 2013, after design work is
complete and U.S. regulators have reviewed the company’s
application to build and operate the unit, Dominion Chief
Executive Officer Thomas Farrell said at a news conference in
Washington July 11.  The NRC is reviewing the proposed design of the reactor,
which must be able to withstand seismic activity.  “Obviously, this latest earthquake will be added to the
database of information that’s used in this analysis,” NRC
spokesman Scott Burnell said in a phone interview. The NRC will
not license a plant that sits directly on top of an active
fault, he said.  “That is not the case at North Anna,” he said.  An active fault nearby, such as the one that caused this
week’s earthquake, does not automatically disqualify a site
because those reactors can be built to withstand seismic
activity, Burnell said. The agency still expects to make a
decision on the license in 2013, he said.  Jim Norvelle ,
spokesman for Richmond-based Dominion, said the company doesn’t
expect seismic issues to delay licensing of the third unit.  Old Dispute Revived  The outage at North Anna may revive controversy over the
long-dormant fault underlying the plant that was discovered as
construction began in the late 1960s, Zeller said.  Federal regulators allowed the plant to proceed after
determining that the fault was dormant. Rock fragments in the
fault hadn’t moved since they’d been formed an estimated 500,000
years ago, according to a 1976 ruling by a U.S. appellate court
upholding the licensing decision.  Zeller said his group intends to challenge that seismic
analysis.  Blue Ridge  is among a handful of parties that gained
the nuclear agency’s permission to challenge Dominion’s
application for a third reactor.  “It’s the same old nonsense which ignores the obvious:
this is a seismic area. The plant shouldn’t have been there in
the first place,” Zeller said.  ‘More Than Capable’  North Anna “was more than capable” of handling the
tremors, aftershocks and power outage that the earthquake
caused, Dominion’s Norvelle said. “The fault area is well-
known, well-understood. We’re beyond this.”  One of the back-up generators at the North Anna plant
failed, requiring the facility to use a spare. Within the last
eight years, there have been at least 74 reports of inoperable
back-up generators at U.S. nuclear plants, Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat, wrote in a  letter  to NRC
Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  yesterday.  “This illustrates a long-standing concern” that back-up
generators at nuclear plants aren’t adequately maintained, said
Markey, who has led lawmaker calls in Washington for tighter
regulations on the nuclear industry.  “The Virginia earthquake is now our local 911 call to stop
delaying the implementation of stricter safety standards,” he
wrote to Jaczko.  Post-Fukushima Rules  The NRC is considering new regulations for 104 U.S.
commercial reactors after a March earthquake and tsunami caused
meltdowns and radiation leaks at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. By Oct. 3, NRC officials must
prioritize actions to be taken in response to an NRC task-force
report on safety.  The task-force was “spot-on” in its recommendation that
plant owners be required to re-evaluate earthquake and flooding
risks every 10 years,  David Lochbaum , director of the Nuclear
Safety Program at the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Union of
Concerned Scientists, said in an interview.  An earthquake exceeding the threshold for a safe shutdown
of the North Anna reactors is likely to occur once every 4,762
years, Lochbaum said.  By comparison,  PG&E Corp. (PCG) ’s two Diablo Canyon reactors,
located about 12 miles from San Luis Obispo,  California , may
experience an earthquake of greater-than-expected magnitude once
every 256 years, according to Lochbaum’s sorting of NRC data.  Thousand Year Event  “Fukushima was expected to experience a tsunami of greater
height than its sea wall about once every 1,000 years,”
Lochbaum said in an e-mail. Several U.S. reactors have seismic
designs that are just as vulnerable as Fukushima’s design
against tsunamis, he said.  The agency should examine nuclear plants that are most
exposed to greater-than-expected earthquakes, he said. Those
plants include Diablo Canyon,  Progress Energy Inc. (PGN) ’s Robinson
reactor near Florence,  South Carolina , and  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ’s
Oconee plant near Greenville, South Carolina, according to
Lochbaum.  Federal regulators haven’t yet indicated whether they will
require additional seismic testing at North Anna, said
Dominion’s Norvelle. The nuclear agency is creating a new
analytical model to help plants better assess their seismic
risks, Burnell said.  “The current plan is for all U.S. plants to go through the
additional analysis,” said Burnell. “The deadline for them to
perform that analysis is not yet known.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 Bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net 
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  