-- 
Emerging Stocks Climb on Fed Policy Outlook, U.S. Data; China Shares Jump

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-08-25T21:51:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/emerging-stocks-climb-on-fed-policy-outlook-u-s-data-china-shares-jump.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
second day after the U.S. reported higher unemployment claims
and near an all-time low  consumer confidence , and selling in
German futures sparked a rout in global equities.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 0.5 percent to
973.05 as of 5:35 p.m. in New York.  Brazil ’s Bovespa index and
the Mexican IPC Index dropped the most in five days. Benchmark
gauges in Russia and Hungary both sank 1.3 percent. Thailand’s
SET Index dropped 2.1 percent after CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets
lowered its forecast for the measure.  Claims for U.S. unemployment benefits unexpectedly rose
last week, the Labor Department figures showed today. Consumer
confidence stabilized last week at a level that’s within
striking distance of an all-time low as Americans remained
pessimistic about the economy, the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index indicated. Traders sold German equity futures to hedge
equities before France, Italy and Spain extended curbs on short
selling, which sent the  DAX Index (DAX)  down 4 percent in 15 minutes.  “People are pretty much in a risk-off mode and really
don’t have any motivation to buy riskier, emerging-market
assets,” said  Ed Kuczma , who helps manage $30 billion at Van
Eck Associates in New York. “We’re seeing increased volatility
across the board with the latest global macro considerations.”  Investors are awaiting a speech by Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, tomorrow for any
indications of whether the Fed will embark on further stimulus
to bolster the economy. At last year’s meeting, he signaled a
second round of asset purchases that boosted stock markets.  The MSCI emerging-market index has retreated 19 percent
from this year’s high on May 2 after worse-than-estimated U.S.
economic data, the unprecedented downgrade of America’s top debt
rating and signs that  Europe ’s most-indebted countries may
struggle to repay obligations shook investor confidence. The
gauge is valued at 8.9 times analysts’ estimates for 12-month
earnings, compared with 11.3 times at the start of the year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Steel Maker, Banks  Common shares of Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA,
Brazil’s second-largest steelmaker, tumbled 5.8 percent, after
Chief Executive Officer Wilson Brumer told investors in Sao
Paulo that he sees little change in steel prices in the third
quarter compared with the second quarter. In  Mexico , Grupo
Elektra SA, the retail and banking company controlled by
billionaire  Ricardo Salinas , tumbled 7.6 percent.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , Turkey’s biggest listed bank by
market value, and  Turkiye Is Bankasi (ISCTR)  AS, the nation’s biggest
listed bank by assets both fell after their price estimates were
cut by Morgan Stanley on speculation slowing economies and
funding pressures will curb earnings.  Shanghai  Composite  The Shanghai Composite Index jumped 2.9 percent, the most
in 10 months, after  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  reported record profit.   Bank of China increased 2.4 percent in Shanghai after
saying first-half profit jumped 28 percent to a record while bad
loans fell.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd., the
world’s largest lender by market value, and Agricultural  Bank of
China Ltd. (601988)  posted earnings that topped analysts’ estimates after
local markets closed.  OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s natural gas export monopoly, declined
1.5 percent while OAO Novatek, the country’s second-largest
natural-gas producer, lost 2.5 percent.  ‘Reasonably Valued’  “Stocks are looking reasonably valued,” Ajay Kapur, head
of Asian equity strategy at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in  Hong Kong . “No one is really
expecting a silver bullet, but what we think he might say is
elaborate on the FOMC’s decision to keep rates low till 2013,”
Kapur said, referring to Bernanke’s speech tomorrow.  Fed policy makers, who said Aug. 9 they’ll use additional
tools “as appropriate,” probably don’t expect a recession or
rapid disinflation, making a signal of bond buying premature,
said Roberto Perli, managing director at International Strategy
& Investment Group. Instead, Bernanke will probably detail
options for further stimulus and clarify how much the Fed’s
reduction in its outlook this month stems from long-term
obstacles to growth, said  Keith Hembre , a former Fed researcher.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose 3 basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 3.66, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index. The Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA Index of
credit-default swaps for emerging Europe, the Middle East and
Africa dropped 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 268,
according to CMA in  London .  Currencies  Emerging-market currencies were mixed. Turkey’s lira gained
1.7 percent against the dollar, and the South Africa rand
advanced 0.4 percent. The South Korean won and Indonesian rupiah
weakened 0.5 percent against the greenback.  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s second-largest maker
of mobile phones, gained 2.4 percent and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) ,
the third-largest mobile-phone maker, climbed 1.3 percent.    Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer Steve Jobs resigned
yesterday and will become chairman of the world’s most valuable
technology company. Jobs was on medical leave since Jan. 17
after combating a rare form of cancer since 2003 and surviving a
liver transplant in 2009.  “Given that the key driver of Apple has been Jobs’s
creativity and ideas, Korean companies may find opportunities in
his absence in the longer term,” said Seo Won Seok, an analyst
at NH Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul .  TPK Holding Co., a manufacturer of touch screens, retreated
1.8 percent in Taipei, pacing a decline among Taiwan-based
companies that supply parts to Apple. Hon Hai Precision Industry
Co., which assembles iPhones and iPads, slumped 4.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in  New York  at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net 
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 Lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  