-- 
Employers Must Tell Workers of Rights to Unionize, NLRB Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-08-25T21:05:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/employers-must-tell-workers-of-right-to-unionize-nlrb-says-2-.html
U.S. employers must post notices
informing workers about their legal rights to form a union and
bargain on contracts, the  National Labor Relations Board  said in
a rule that may help efforts to organize employees.  Companies that use posters to tell employees about
personnel rules or policies must add a notice about their
collective bargaining rights, according to a statement today
from the NLRB. The posting must be completed Nov. 14.  “The notice does make it easier for labor to make
inroads,” Doreen Davis, a partner in the labor and employment
practice at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP in  New York  and
Philadelphia, said in an interview. “It’s almost like an
invitation to non-union employees to start thinking about
joining unions.”  The board proposed the rule to spell out for employees
their rights under federal laws that let workers choose to form
and join a labor union. Business groups protested the proposal
and said the rule shows the agency favors unions.  “It’s arbitrary, it’s capricious,” Peter Schaumber, a
former NLRB chairman appointed by Republican President  George W. Bush , said in an interview. “It shows just how activist they’re
prepared to be.”  The labor board has been faulted by Republicans and
business groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce for pushing
a pro-union agenda. Board opponents cite the April complaint
against  Boeing Co. (BA)  that said the world’s largest aerospace
company retaliated for worker strikes in its Seattle-area hub by
building a plant in  South Carolina , a state where employees
aren’t required to join a union.  Workplace Laws  “The NLRB rule simply brings the National Labor Relations
Act in line with other workplace laws that require employers to
post a notice in the workplace of their employees’ rights,”
Peter Colavito, director of government relations at the 2.2
million-member  Service Employees International Union , said in a
statement.  The posting rule “imposes a minimal burden on employers,
while giving employees the information they need to choose to
exercise their rights,” Kimberly Freeman Brown, executive
director of American Rights at Work, a union advocacy group
based in Washington, said in a statement.  The agency said it received more than 6,500 public comments
and in the review dropped a requirement to have employers send
the notice by e-mail, voice mail or text messaging if they
usually communicate with their employees in that manner,
according to the statement.  Chamber ‘Disappointed’  “We are disappointed, as we opposed the rule,”  Michael Eastman , executive director of labor-law policy at the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, the largest U.S. business lobbying group,
said in an e-mail.  The final rule is better because it eliminates the delivery
of the notices by voice mail or e-mail, he said.  Employers will find it difficult to accept that the board
has accurately summarized all decisions involving the  National
Labor Relations Act  on a poster, Ronald Meisburg, a lawyer at
Proskauer Rose LLP in Washington and the board’s general counsel
under Bush, said in an interview.  The rule won’t help unions because many employees consider
labor groups, with declining membership, to be ineffective, J.
Justin Wilson, managing director at the Washington-based Center
for Union Facts, which opposes making it easier for workers to
join a union, said in an e-mail.  “This is nothing more than a symbolic favor to big labor
from their friends at the NLRB,” Wilson said.  The board has adopted a responsible and much-needed rule,
 Richard Trumka , president of the AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor
federation, said in a statement.  “Just as employers are required to notify their employees
of their rights around health and safety, wages and
discrimination on the job, this rule gives clear information to
employees about their rights under this fundamental labor law so
that workers are better equipped to exercise and enforce them,”
Trumka said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in  Washington  at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  