-- 
Encana to Sell Texas Assets as Part of Divestiture Program

-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 
2011-08-25T12:51:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/encana-plans-to-sell-texas-assets-as-part-of-divestiture-program.html
Encana Corp. (ECA) , Canada’s biggest
natural-gas producer, is seeking buyers for assets in North
Texas as the company comes under pressure to raise cash to fund
future production.  Encana has retained Scotia Waterous Inc. to assist with the
sale of 52,000 net acres in the Fort Worth Basin that produce
the equivalent of about 125 million cubic feet of gas, according
to a statement today. The sale is part of a program to divest as
much as $2 billion this year.  The company, based in Calgary, is under pressure to sell
assets or face a decline in its  capital spending , Mark Gilman,
an analyst with Benchmark Co. LLC in  New York , said in a
telephone interview today.  “They do not have a whole lot of balance sheet capability
or cash on hand,” said Gilman, who rates Encana a “hold” and
doesn’t own shares.  Encana has been seeking buyers or partners for undeveloped
fields. This announcement marks a shift to them selling fields
that are producing gas, he said.  The company, based in Calgary, plans to complete the sale
by early 2012, according to the statement.  Encana said efforts to sell other midstream and production
assets are under way and it’s also in discussion with potential
partners looking for joint-venture opportunities.  In June, PetroChina Co. walked away from a C$5.4 billion
($5.5 billion) joint venture with Encana to develop gas assets
in  Canada .  The announcement was made before the start of regular
trading on North American markets. Encana rose 2 cents to
C$24.91 at 8:45 a.m. in Toronto. Before today, the stock had
fallen 14 percent this year on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  