-- 
Lend Lease Profit Climbs 43% on Asian Developments, U.S. Mall Stake Sale

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-08-26T06:45:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/lend-lease-profit-rises-43-on-asian-developments-u-s-mall-stake-sale.html
Lend Lease Group (LLC) ,  Australia ’s
largest property developer, will consider exiting some of its
investments in the U.K. and  Singapore  over the coming year.  The group, which today reported a 43 percent increase in
full-year profit to A$492.8 million ($516.5 million), will look
to sell some of its public private partnership positions to its
U.K. infrastructure fund, and its 25 percent stake in the
Somerset Retail Center in Singapore, Chief Executive Officer
Steve McCann said.  “We will, every year, recycle quite a bit of capital,”
McCann said today in an interview. “We’ve got some PPP equity
positions in  London , and the Somerset retail asset in Singapore,
so we’ll test the market on that.”  Lend Lease  last year  created  a 220 million pound ($359
million) U.K. infrastructure fund in partnership with Dutch
investment manager PGGM Vermogensbeheer B.V. to invest in health
care, education and accommodation projects previously owned by
the company. The fund gave the company an opportunity to offload
the equity it held in public private partnerships and to buy
more Lend Lease projects during its 28-year life, the group said
at that time. Lend Lease still owns 10 percent of the fund and
manages it.  Lend Lease shares dropped 3.7 percent to A$7.89 at the
close of trade in Sydney.  Barangaroo  The group will soon start work on the site of the
Barangaroo South redevelopment in Sydney’s city center, and
plans to make announcements about investors in the project and
tenants for its first commercial tower before the end of the
year, McCann said.  The company’s focus will be on “making sure we don’t delay
at all on the delivery of the commercial tower, and maintaining
our commercial position” even as it negotiates with the
government on the location of its planned hotel, he said.  The hotel, which Lend Lease intends to build on a pier
jutting into the harbor, has been one of the most controversial
parts of the A$6 billion redevelopment, with opponents calling
for it to be relocated inland or scrapped altogether.  Lend Lease is considering “a couple of very good internal
candidates” to replace Chief Financial Officer Brad Soller, who
will step down at the end of January, as well as possibilities
outside the organization, McCann said.  Lend Lease’s operating earnings rose to A$485.3 million in
2011 from A$323.6 million a year ago. The company will pay a
full-year dividend of 35 Australian cents, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 Nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  