-- 
Energy Conversion Surges on Plans to Make Solar Roofing, Tents

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-08-25T16:47:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/energy-conversion-surges-on-plans-to-make-solar-roofing-tents.html
--  Energy Conversion Devices Inc. (ENER) , a
maker of flexible solar panels, rose the most in more than three
years after announcing plans to adapt its products for consumer
and military applications.  Energy Conversion rose 13 cents, or 20 percent, to 79 cents
at of 12:36 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Earlier it
climbed 24 cents, the biggest intra-day gain since May 2008. The
share have dropped 83 percent this year.  The company is working with third parties to integrate its
panels into roofing tiles and other building materials as well
as commercial, military and recreational products such as
backpacks and tents,  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Energy
Conversion’s Chief Executive Officer Jay Knoll said today during
a conference call to discuss its fourth-quarter results.  “Consumer products are a large and growing market
opportunity for solar, especially as portable sources of
renewable energy for consumer electronics,” Knoll said during
the call.  Revenue in the fiscal quarter that ended June 30 was $73.1
million, down 15 percent from the same quarter a year ago, with
nearly half coming from a single contract for a project in  Italy 
that’s nearly finished, according to a statement today. The
company’s net loss more than doubled to $42.1 million, or 84
cents a share.  The company cut its production capacity to 5.5 megawatts of
panels in the quarter from 33.6 megawatts in the prior quarter,
increasing its manufacturing costs to $3.40 a watt from $1.45.  Energy Conversion has no plans to increase production above
30 megawatts “until we see good visibility out of the market,”
Kriss Andrews, the company’s chief financial officer said on the
call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 