-- 
Leonardo’s Ermine Lady Stars With Fat Banker in Berlin: Review

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-08-25T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/leonardo-s-ermine-lady-stars-with-blubbery-banker-in-berlin-portrait-show.html
Even in illustrious company,
 Leonardo da Vinci ’s “Lady With Ermine” radiates sheer class.  About 17, she has a pale oval face, a long aristocratic
nose and a resolute mouth. She gazes intently over one shoulder
while stroking the white creature in her arm with a fine-boned,
pale hand. Her brown hair is neatly smoothed down and tucked
back, giving her almost a 1920s appearance. She wears simple
black beads and a richly colored gown with folds and gold
brocade.  This 1490 portrait is the last visitors encounter in a
magnificent exhibition called  “Renaissance Faces”  at Berlin’s
Bode Museum. Curated in cooperation with the  Metropolitan Museum
of Art  in  New York , it comprises about 150 paintings, sculptures
and medallions. The  Louvre , the  Uffizi  and the  National Gallery 
in  London  are among the many museums to loan works. The show
moves to New York from Dec. 21 to March 18, 2012.  The combined clout of Berlin and New York allowed the
curators to secure more prestigious loans than they could
achieve individually. In the case of the ermine lady, the owner
Adam Karol Czartoryski, a descendant of the Polish royal family,
had to persuade a reluctant Polish government to let the
painting travel (though it won’t go on to New York). It is
usually housed in Krakow’s  National Museum .  Organized as a tour of  Italy , the exhibition introduces us
to Botticelli’s blonde Florentine beauties and their rich banker
lovers, old men from Ferrara delicately portrayed in Pisanello
drawings, the dukes of Milan, Mantua and Naples, angelic young
boys from  Rome  and solemn doges of  Venice .  Renaissance Blondes  Portraits of the 15th century had to flatter, yet they also
had to bear some likeness to the subject. Ladies seemed more
willing to sacrifice identity for beauty -- it is hard to
imagine that there were so many blonde, blue-eyed women in
Renaissance Italy, especially when most of the men were dark.  Still, Leonardo’s ermine lady, Cecilia Gallerani,
complained a few years after the portrait was completed that it
didn’t resemble her anymore because it showed her in her youth,
and therefore not yet complete.  Men were permitted flaws. In Domenico Ghirlandaio’s
touching 1490 portrait of an old man with his grandson, a
painting that normally hangs in the Louvre, the old man in
question has a bulbous, warty nose.  The wealthy, powerful, Florentine banker Niccolo Strozzi
was, according to contemporary documents, a lover of fine food.
A 1446 letter describes him as “so blubbery he cannot move.”
Mino da Fiesole’s marvelous marble sculpture is kinder, showing
him with a strong face and paunchy jowls. The mountain of fat is
hidden under folds of voluptuous fabric.  Florentine Banker  Three astonishing Botticelli portraits of the ill-fated
Giuliano de’ Medici (he was murdered in a putsch in Florence
cathedral in 1478) have been united for the first time. Each
shows the golden, sporty son of the Florentine banker family in
not-quite-full profile, his thick, sculptured dark curls
cascading down his neck. His eyes are downcast, while the set of
his mouth and nose implies pride or even arrogance.  The three paintings -- from Berlin, Bergamo and  Washington 
-- are displayed alongside each other. Giuliano is wearing the
same clothes in each, suggesting Botticelli copied from one
original. The curators say the Berlin one may be the original,
although they can’t be sure.  The exhibition rooms are black and the lighting is focused,
so the artworks shine dramatically out of the darkness. They are
closely hung, creating an almost intimate atmosphere that could
quickly become claustrophobic in a crowd. The organizers have
thought of that, and are limiting visitor numbers to 300 at any
one time. Tickets with a time slot can be bought in advance.  Portraits force the viewer to engage with the subject as an
individual, and this show is demanding -- like shaking hands
with a hundred or so new acquaintances at a cocktail party. Even
if you don’t remember the names, some of the faces will stick in
your mind.  “Renaissance Faces -- Masterpieces of Italian
Portraiture” is open through Nov. 20 at the Bode Museum in
Berlin. For more information, go to
 http://www.smb.museum/smb/gesichter/   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 