-- 
Merkel Defends Her Foreign Policy Against Kohl’s Criticism

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-08-25T15:28:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/merkel-defends-her-foreign-policy-against-kohl-s-criticism.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  said her
government has grappled “resolutely” with global issues,
defending herself against criticism from a predecessor,  Helmut Kohl , who this week called German foreign policy listless.  Merkel told  NDR radio  that her Christian Democratic-led
government has acted decisively on issues in the European Union,
North Africa and the  Middle East . Former Chancellor Kohl
yesterday said that Germany is no longer a reliable partner to
its Western allies, particularly the U.S.  “I think the achievements of Helmut Kohl as the chancellor
of unity and also in the context of European unity can hardly be
valued enough -- but it’s also true that every era has its own
specific challenges,” Merkel said in the interview today.  The 81-year-old Kohl, who led  Germany  from 1982 to 1998,
told foreign-policy magazine  Internationale Politik  in an
interview that Germany had begun to follow an arbitrary course
in diplomacy.  “Germany has no longer been a known quantity for a number
of years -- either inwardly or outwardly,” Kohl said. Both
Merkel and Kohl are Christian Democrats.  Kohl, who appointed Merkel as his environment minister in
1994, lamented the fact that President Barack Obama didn’t visit
Germany on his European visit in May. Obama’s European tour
included trips to Ireland, the U.K. and  Poland  and a Group of
Eight summit.  “After everything that we Germans and Americans have lived
through together and what ties us closely, I never would have
dreamed that I would ever experience a sitting American
president traveling to  Europe , avoiding Germany -- indeed flying
over it,” Kohl said.  Kohl, in the interview, didn’t name either Merkel or his
immediate successor, Social Democrat Gerhard Schroeder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  