-- 
Tesco, Ocado Trial Virtual Shopping Walls to Lure Mobile Users

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-08-25T16:03:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/tesco-ocado-trial-virtual-shopping-walls-to-lure-mobile-users.html
British grocers  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and  Ocado
Group Plc (OCDO)  said they started trials of virtual shopping walls,
where shoppers can browse images of products and order them
using applications on their mobile phones.  Tesco, based in Cheshunt,  England , opened what it says is
the world’s first virtual store at the Seonreung subway station
in central  Seoul , South Korea. More than 500 of the most popular
products are displayed on a wall, each with a barcode which
shoppers can scan with a smartphone to get them delivered to
their home, the largest U.K. retailer said in a statement.  Ocado, the biggest independent online grocer in the U.K.,
introduced a similar display at the One New Change mall in
 London ’s financial district today. The test will end on Sept. 1,
the Hatfield, England-based company said in a statement.  Supermarkets are looking for new ways to target shoppers,
with online grocery sales predicted to grow faster than store-
based sales, according to IGD research. Online sales in the
U.K., which include mobile sales, are expected to double in size
in the next five years, with total revenue reaching 9.9 billion
pounds ($16.1 million) in 2015, the researcher estimates.  Tesco shoppers in Seoul need to download a mobile-phone
application to scan the code on items such as milk, apples and
pet food on their mobile phones. About 600,000 shoppers in the
Asian nation have got the application in four months.  “We are always looking to make the shopping experience
easier and more convenient for our customers and the
introduction of the virtual store is a great achievement,” DW
Seol, executive vice president of corporate affairs at Tesco’s
Homeplus unit in  South Korea , said in the statement.  Ocado  said mobile phones were used in 15 percent of
transactions in the first half, a 150 percent increase from a
year earlier. The online grocer will consider the “virtual
shopping window approach in other locations U.K.-wide,” Chief
Executive Officer Tim Steiner said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net . 