-- 
Estonian Growth to Slow Due to Euro-Debt Crisis, Ligi Says

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-08-25T13:20:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/estonian-growth-to-slow-due-to-euro-debt-crisis-ligi-says-1-.html
Estonia  will reduce its growth
forecast for next year due to the euro-area’s sovereign-debt
crisis, Finance Minister Juergen Ligi said.  Ligi, speaking at a news conference in Tallinn today,
didn’t elaborate. The  Finance Ministry  is due to publish its
updated forecast in the middle of September, Katrin Reimann, a
ministry spokeswoman, said in a phone interview today.  The $19 billion economy, which has grown at the fastest
pace in the European Union in the past two quarters, may expand
4 percent this year and next, according to the ministry’s latest
forecast released in April.  “Our economy will quite clearly suffer because of Europe’s
debt crisis, even though it will reach us with a delay,” Ligi
said. “We are extremely interested in an end to this crisis so
that the financial markets would calm down and that countries
could finance their deficits and service debts under normal
conditions.”  Swedbank AB, the largest Baltic lender, yesterday raised
its forecast for Estonia’s GDP growth this year to 6.7 percent
from 4.5 percent. The bank forecast the expansion to slow to
4.2 percent in 2012 as  Europe ’s debt crisis worsens and the
global economy weakens, damping export orders.  Finland’s demands for collateral on loans to  Greece  may
trigger a default on 18 billion euros ($26 billion) of bonds
sold by Europe’s most-indebted country due to conditions
attached to the notes that stipulate equal treatment for all
investors. Finland’s announcement of a collateral deal with
Greece on Aug. 16 has prompted calls for similar deals from
 Austria  and the Netherlands, as well as Slovakia and Slovenia.
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has rejected collateral demands.  “There are countries where these subjects have penetrated
domestic politics very deeply, while sobriety has so far
dominated here, which doesn’t mean that we’re very happy about
the situation,” Ligi said. “But a bad situation needs fixing,
not mocking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  