-- 
Metcash Wins Australia Court Approval to Buy Franklins Over ACCC Objection

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-08-25T00:46:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/metcash-wins-australia-court-approval-to-buy-franklins-over-accc-objection.html
Metcash Ltd. (MTS)  won Australian court
approval for its A$215 million ($225 million) purchase of the
Franklins supermarket chain over the opposition of the country’s
antitrust regulator.  Federal Court Justice Arthur Emmett rejected the  Australian
Competition and Consumer Commission ’s argument that the purchase
would give Sydney-based Metcash a monopoly in supplying
independent grocery stores.  The ruling may force the competition commission’s new
chairman, Rod Sims, to review the regulator’s procedures for
mergers,  Sharon Henrick , a partner at law firm Mallesons Stephen
Jaques, said in a phone interview today.  “It’s a significant loss to the commission,” Henrick
said. Sims, who took over as chairman on Aug. 1, may need to
“fine tune the merger clearance process.”  Emmett dismissed the commission’s application to block the
deal and will issue the reasons for his decision tomorrow, he
said in a ruling broadcast to Sydney federal court by video.  The judge likely concluded that  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  and Coles
Group Ltd.,  Australia ’s two biggest grocery chains, provide
enough competition in the grocery supply chain to allow the
Metcash acquisition to proceed, Henrick said.  The competition commission said it would issue a statement
later.  Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. (PIK) , South Africa’s second-biggest food
retailer, agreed to sell Franklins to Metcash on July 1, 2010.
The agreement was extended to Sept. 30 as the companies awaited
the court ruling.  Franklins has 80 stores and 10 franchise outlets in
Australia.  The case is: Australian Competition & Consumer Commission
v. Metcash Trading Ltd. NSD1714/2010. Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Malcolm Scott  at 
 mscott23@bloomberg.net  