-- 
EU Regulators May Extend Short-Sale Bans

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-08-25T13:38:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/eu-regulators-may-decide-today-on-extending-short-sale-bans.html
European Union stock-market
regulators will decide as soon as today on whether to extend
temporary bans on short selling that they introduced this month
in a bid to stem market volatility.  Authorities in  France ,  Spain  and  Italy  must all decide
whether to extend the restrictions, which are due to expire over
the next 48 hours. A spokeswoman for France’s Autorite des
Marches Financiers, who declined to be identified, said the
regulator will announce a decision after markets close today.  “We’re pretty confident that whatever happens will be
coordinated among the regulators,” Darren Fox, financial
services lawyer at  Simmons & Simmons  in  London , said in a phone
interview. “My instincts tell me that, unfortunately, the three
countries that have expiring bans will roll them over.”  The three countries, as well as Belgium, banned short
selling of some financial stocks earlier this month in an effort
to stabilize markets after European banks including  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA hit their lowest levels since the credit crisis of
2008. The restrictions cover short selling of shares and equity
derivatives in some financial firms.  The bans introduced by France, Spain and Italy are
 temporary , lasting 15 days unless renewed. Belgium’s is
indefinite.  ‘Mood of Uncertainty’  “The history of such bans is that it’s very hard to get a
broad consensus among countries to move together and that these
bans tend to be quite temporary,”  Richard Reid , International
Centre for Financial Regulation’s director of research, said in
an e-mail. “Moreover there is always a risk that implementing
such bans actually adds to the mood of uncertainty and that the
reversal of the bans can give the impression of lack of
direction.”  The AMF will issue its statement after the French market’s
5:30 p.m. close, the spokeswoman said. She declined to comment
on whether the regulator will prolong its ban, which covers 10
financial firms including Societe Generale, France’s third-
largest bank by assets, and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, France’s biggest
bank.  Italy’s Consob and Spain’s CNMV will make announcements
shortly after markets close as well. The European Securities and
Markets Authority, which coordinates the work of regulators in
the 27-nation EU, may also publish a statement at that time.  ESMA Role  ESMA is “closely monitoring” the market situation and
communicating with national supervisors, Reemt Seibel, a
spokesman for ESMA, said in a telephone interview.  Consob will meet this afternoon to review the ban, two
people familiar with the discussions said. An official at the
Italian market regulator declined to comment.  Short sellers sell borrowed shares whose prices they think
will fall with plans to buy them back later at a lower price, a
practice politicians and some investors blame for roiling
markets.  Belgium ’s  Financial Services and Markets Authority  will
publish a statement concerning the country’s short selling rules
after markets close today, Jim Lannoo, a spokesman for the
Brussels-based agency, said in a telephone interview. He
declined to comment on the content of the announcement.  The benchmark Stoxx 600 Banks Index advanced 3.9 percent
after falling as much as 3.5 percent on Aug. 11, the last
trading day before the bans were introduced.  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority said it still has
no plans to implement a short selling ban.  “We have an existing short-selling disclosure regime
around financial stocks in place and we continue to monitor the
activity in our markets,”  Chris Hamilton , an FSA spokesman,
said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  