-- 
EU Sugar Harvest Expanding as Nestle Says Supply Running Short

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-08-25T11:23:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/eu-sugar-harvest-expanding-as-nestle-says-supply-running-short.html
The European Union’s sugar-beet
crop, the world’s largest, will be the biggest in six years, at
a time when Nestle SA and other food companies say supplies are
running short.  EU beet growers will harvest 17.26 million metric tons in
the 2011-12 crop year starting Oct. 1, the largest since 2005-
06, and up from 15.2 million a year earlier, Rabobank
International estimates. Supplies will increase as farmers boost
plantings by 4 percent to 3.89 million acres, according to the
European Commission, the executive arm of the 27-nation EU.  The EU spent four years shrinking the sugar beet industry
after a World Trade Organization ruling that limited exports.
Importers approved to ship to the EU were able to sell sugar for
more elsewhere as global prices soared. That left food companies
without enough supplies, Nestle says.  “I don’t think anybody had this in mind when the policy
was changed,” said Gorjan Nikolik, an analyst at Rabobank
in Utrecht,  Netherlands . “Nobody at all imagined at that time
that Europe would not be a good place to send sugar.”  The EU began paying sugar factories to shut in 2006, in a
bid to cut production and support prices.  Tate & Lyle Plc (TATE) , after
132 years in the business, sold its EU refineries last year to
American Sugar Refining Inc. Danisco A/S, based in Copenhagen,
sold its sugar operations in 2009 to Braunschweig, Germany-based
Nordzucker AG.  ‘Major Issue’  “There is a major issue in the EU of not being enough
sugar available to meet demand,” Vevey, Switzerland-based
Nestle said in a statement on Aug. 13. “Sugar reform has been
based on the assumption that world sugar prices would remain
lower than prices in the EU which has not been the case.
Consequently, the EU sugar market is not functioning as
foreseen.”  Nestle is the world’s biggest food company and uses sugar
in products such as KitKat chocolate bars and Haagen-Dazs ice
cream.  R&R Ice Cream Plc,  Europe ’s largest private-label producer
of ice cream, expects prices for sugar-based foods in the EU to
rise 20 percent by April because of higher costs of the
sweetener, Chief Executive Officer James Lambert said Aug. 15.
R&R buys about 50,000 tons of sugar a year, including 10,000
tons from the U.K., he said.  Shortages of sugar were caused by decreased output last
year after an early freeze and reduced imports the prior year,
said  Roger Waite , a spokesman for the commission.  ‘One-Off Year’  “What we’ve seen is a one-off year, we hope anyway, where
supply has been difficult to find and supply from the least-
developed countries has been lower than normal,” Waite said.
“We don’t think that’s a structural problem.”  Raw sugar futures traded in  New York  tripled in the past
year as global production fell short. Demand in  India , the
world’s biggest user, rose 13 percent in four years while output
was little changed, according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture . In  Brazil , the biggest producer, sugar output
climbed 25 percent over the same period, the USDA says.  Global sugar production will probably exceed demand by at
least 9 million tons for the 2011-12 season, the second surplus
in a row, Rabobank estimated in a report yesterday.  Raw sugar in New York, a global sugar benchmark, may
drop to 21 cents a pound in the next 12 months because of the
increased supplies, said Keith Flury, an analyst at Rabobank in
 London . Goldman Sachs Group Inc. forecasts the price may fall to
20 cents a pound in 12 months, it said in an Aug. 11 report.  Sugar Prices  Raw sugar for October delivery dropped 0.95 cent, or 3.2
percent, to 29.23 cents a pound by 12:244 a.m. London time on
ICE Futures U.S. in New York. Prices have jumped 46 percent in
the past year on signs of crop damage in Brazil.  The EU sugar beet crop was 10 percent smaller last year
because of frost, according to the USDA. That pushed up sugar
prices as much as 70 percent in some parts of the EU, Rabobank
said. Buyers in  Poland  where sugar is in short supply reportedly
went to  Germany  for sweetener to resell it at home for a profit,
Rabobank said in May.  To boost supplies, the EU authorized more sugar imports
at zero duty. White, or refined, sugar was selling in Europe at
about 517 euros ($745) a ton in March, more than the EU’s
reference price of 404.40 euros, spurring the EU to take market
action to boost supplies, said Nikolik.  “The most important thing was refiners and sugar buyers
were saying we can’t find sugar,” he said. “The
price premium is just one indicator. But you don’t need an
indicator when people are saying we’re not able to find sugar.”  Reference Price  The reference price is the basis for negotiations with
importers and the sale of intervention stocks that are used by
the government to balance the market in times of shortage or
surplus. The reference price replaced the support price before
sugar reform and was the guaranteed price the government
mandated for sales.  The WTO limited EU exports to 1.35 million tons a year.
Last year, the EU limited its exports to about 600,000 tons.  “Most of the extra production for this year will go into
exports, and some will go into storage and also some will be
produced into ethanol and used in the industrial sugar market,”
Nikolik said. “Domestic sugar users for human consumption will
not be able to benefit from this strong production.”  France , the EU’s biggest sugar producer, will have a record
yield of 15.4 tons a hectare (2.47 acres), and the U.K.’s crop
will be 20 percent larger, Rabobank said in yesterday’s report.  Robert Baker, 48, who farms 2,000 acres of sugar beets,
wheat, rapeseed and barley in Bury St. Edmunds,  England , says
he’s sticking with the beet crop because it’s made a “sensible
return. We don’t want to give up that security.”  After losing 10 percent of his crop last year, this year’s
weather resulted in “pretty much ideal growing
conditions,” Baker, who has been farming for 25 years, said.
The sugar beet harvest “looks about as good a crop as we’ve
ever grown.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  