-- 
Euro Weakens as European Regulators Extend Short-Selling Bans; Rand Climbs

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-08-25T21:17:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/euro-weakens-amid-speculation-on-extension-of-short-selling-ban-in-europe.html
The euro weakened for a second day
against the dollar as European regulators extended bans on
short-selling in equity markets in an effort to prevent the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis from worsening.  The yen fell versus all of its 16 most-traded peers as
speculation that Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may
disappoint investors betting on more economic stimulus fueled
demand for the safety of U.S. Treasuries. Bernanke gives a
speech tomorrow in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming .  South Africa ’s rand
climbed as gold erased losses while stocks slid.  “The European fundamentals will come to the fore as people
move past Jackson Hole and pressure the euro in the medium
term,” said  Dean Popplewell , head analyst in Toronto at the
online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp. “People are trying not
to get stuck with toxic positions ahead of tomorrow as the
market has over-hyped what Bernanke will say and will be very
disappointed.”  The euro fell 0.2 percent to $1.4379 at 5 p.m. in New York,
from $1.4414 yesterday. It touched $1.4328, the lowest level
since Aug. 19, after gaining earlier as much as 0.4 percent.  The 17-nation currency strengthened 0.4 percent to 111.38
yen, from 110.96. The dollar gained 0.6 percent to 77.46 yen,
from 76.98 yen.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners including the euro and yen, gained 0.3 percent to
74.234 after declining 0.3 percent earlier.  Panic Selling  Stocks tumbled after panic selling on speculation on the
bans pushed  Germany ’s DAX Index down 4 percent in 15 minutes.
The gauge pared the loss to 1.7 percent. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index snapped a three-day rally, dropping 1.6 percent after
earlier climbing as much as 1.1 percent.  The euro slid as French, Italian and Spanish stock-market
regulators extended the temporary short-selling bans they
introduced this month in a bid to stem market volatility. Spain
and  Italy  lengthened their bans through Sept. 30, regulators in
both countries said in a statement.  France ’s Autorite des
Marches Financiers said its ban could last through Nov. 11.  The three countries, along with Belgium, imposed bans on
short-selling of some financial stocks earlier this month in an
effort to stabilize markets after European banks including
Societe Generale SA hit their lowest levels since the credit
crisis of 2008.  Belgium ’s ban is indefinite.  Blame From Politicians  Short investors sell borrowed shares with plans to buy them
back later at a lower price, a practice politicians and some
investors blame for roiling markets.  Germany’s  Finance Ministry  denied speculation about an
extension of a ban on naked short-selling to all transactions,
it said in an e-mailed statement. In a naked short-sale, traders
agree to sell a security they have not arranged to borrow.  South Africa’s currency climbed versus the dollar as
slumping stocks revived gold’s appeal. The rand appreciated 0.4
percent to 7.2398 per dollar. Gold for December delivery rose 1
percent to $1,774.70 an ounce after falling 3 percent earlier.  Bernanke speaks tomorrow at the Kansas City Fed’s annual
economic conference in  Jackson Hole . At the event last year, he
foreshadowed the central bank’s second round of quantitative
easing, the purchase of $600 billion of Treasuries from November
through June, to support the economy.  Investors speculating Bernanke will signal additional
monetary stimulus may have overestimated the Fed chairman, said
 Brian Taylor , chief currency trader a Manufacturers & Traders
Trust in Buffalo, New York.  ‘Non-Event Tomorrow’  “We are expecting Bernanke to be a non-event tomorrow,”
Taylor said. “The market got a little ahead of itself believing
that he was going to set some kind of policy outside of the
normal Fed meeting or even directional tone.”  Bernanke’s speech will come after data tomorrow forecast to
show the  U.S. economy  grew more slowly from April through June
than initially estimated. Gross domestic product expanded at a
1.1 percent annual rate, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists, compared with an earlier estimate of 1.3 percent.
The economy grew at a 0.4 percent pace in the first quarter.  Treasury 10-year notes gained for the first time in four
days, pushing yields on the benchmark securities down seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 2.23 percent.  Franc Strengthens  The Swiss franc gained for the first time this week against
the dollar and euro. It appreciated 0.4 percent to 79.30
centimes to the U.S. currency. Against the euro, the franc rose
0.6 percent to 1.1403.  The  Swiss National Bank  on Aug. 3 cut key interest rates to
near zero in an attempt to curb gains in the franc, which has
rallied 14 percent against the euro in the past 12 months.  The franc rose 3 percent against nine developed-nation
counterparts over the past month, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The euro advanced 0.8
percent, the dollar gained 1.8 percent and the yen gained 2.4
percent.  The Nuremberg, Germany-based market research company GfK SE
forecast its consumer sentiment index will decline for a sixth
month in September amid household concern that the global
economy is slowing. Other data this week showed business
confidence in  Europe ’s biggest economy was at the lowest in more
than a year and investor sentiment slid the most in five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  