-- 
Ex-Bank of Moscow Chief Borodin Says VTB Bailout Takeover Is ‘Political’

-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-08-25T16:27:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/ex-bank-of-moscow-chief-says-vtb-bailout-takeover-is-political-.html
The “political” takeover of Bank
of Moscow by  Russia ’s state-owned VTB Group led to the biggest
bank bailout in the country’s history to transfer government
money to Bank of Moscow’s new shareholders, former chief
executive officer Andrei Borodin and his representatives said.  “The criminal prosecution and takeover of Bank of Moscow
are part of the same chain of the political decision to change
shareholders at Bank of Moscow and to place it under government
control,” Borodin said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Borodin is under an international arrest warrant by Russian
authorities over his connection to a $443 million loan alleged
to have ended up in the accounts of former Moscow Mayor Yury Luzhkov’s wife,  Yelena Baturina . Luzhkov was fired by President
 Dmitry Medvedev  in September, amid corruption allegations after
18 years at the helm of  Europe ’s largest city. VTB bought the
city government’s 46.5 percent stake in Bank of Moscow for $3.6
billion in February. Borodin, 44, denies any wrongdoing.  VTB denied the allegations, saying it was “a purely
strategic deal and not a political one,” according to an e-
mailed statement yesterday. The press services of the Kremlin
and the Moscow City government declined to comment yesterday on
Borodin’s statements.  Corruption Fight  Medvedev has made fighting corruption the main goal of his
presidency since 2008 as he seeks to attract foreign investment
to wean Russia’s economy away from dependence on oil and gas.
Russia is the world’s most corrupt major economy, according to
Berlin-based Transparency International’s  2010 Corruption
Perceptions Index  released in October. The country was ranked
154th among 178 countries, alongside Tajikistan.  Bank of Moscow’s poor assets quality was uncovered after
VTB’s purchase, leading Russian regulators to provide a record
bailout of 395 billion rubles ($13.7 billion) last month to keep
the country’s fifth-biggest lender from toppling.  Bank of Moscow’s “closeness” to city hall meant that its
operations weren’t properly checked, VTB Chief Executive Officer
 Andrei Kostin  said in an interview with radio Business-FM
published on the bank’s website on June 17. The central bank,
Bank Rossii said the case showed it needs greater oversight
powers.  Related Parties  Bank of Moscow loaned 368 billion rubles to related parties
and will create 220 billion rubles of new loan provisions,
equivalent to the most problematic portion of those loans,
following the bailout, according to  Fitch Ratings . “Bad loans”
totaling 366 billion rubles were confirmed by Russian regulators
including the central bank, VTB’s press office said by e-mail
yesterday.  Borodin spokeswoman Claire Davidson declined to comment on
whether he still owns businesses affiliated with Bank of Moscow.
Borodin and his adviser sold a combined 20.3 percent of the
lender, Interfax news service reported April 8, citing the
former CEO. Borodin declined to name the buyer, price, or when
the transaction took place, according to the report.  “VTB had an opportunity to exit this deal and get its
money back” in March, Borodin said. “Overall, I am not ashamed
of the lending policy, investment policy that we had.”  VTB received no official offer from Borodin to buy the
city’s stake in Bank of Moscow, Kostin told the Vedomosti
newspaper in an interview Aug. 8. The proposal was “nothing
more than a paper sent by fax,” he said.  Wanted  Borodin is wanted on suspicion of abusing his authority in
connection with a 12.8 billion-ruble corporate loan granted in
2009, according to the Interior Ministry’s investigative
committee.  Funds from the loan ended up in Baturina’s personal
account, the ministry said Feb. 17 after police raided her
property development company, ZAO  Inteco . Russia on May 4 issued
an international warrant for Borodin’s arrest.  Investigators haven’t provided any proof of wrongdoing and
the loan is being repaid on schedule, Borodin’s Moscow-based
attorney Mikhail Dolomanov said last month. Gennady Terebkov, a
spokesman for Inteco, said April 6 that Baturina hasn’t done
anything wrong.  National media in the run-up to the former mayor’s sacking
directed a series of critical reports against Luzhkov and
Baturina. They accused the mayor of corruption and favoritism
toward his wife, Russia’s richest woman, whose fortune is
 estimated by Forbes  at $1.2 billion.  Construction Empire  Baturina, 48, who built a construction empire in Moscow
during her 74-year-old husband’s almost two-decade-long tenure
of  City Hall , and Luzkhov denied any impropriety.  Bank of Moscow’s lending strategy was “always based on the
interest of the bank, its shareholders and its clients,”
Borodin’s spokeswoman Davidson said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  VTB, the nation’s second-biggest bank, will raise its stake
in the troubled lender to 75 percent and “shoulder the main
burden” of collecting its souring loans, Finance Minister
Alexei Kudrin said after the bailout was announced July 1. VTB
says it eventually plans to increase its holding to 100 percent
as it seeks to boost its retail operations in the Russian
capital.  “The bailout of Bank of Moscow is a veiled form of
shifting money to the bank’s shareholders,” Davidson said.  ‘Fraudulent Lending’  VTB said the bailout was necessary because of “the
fraudulent lending activities of the previous management.”  When asked about the allegations that more than 50 percent
of loans extended by Bank of Moscow while Borodin was CEO were
made to parties affiliated to him or other top managers,
Davidson said she was unable to comment because no list of loans
or any other details demonstrating that this may be the case
were provided.  Borodin’s fortune was estimated at $1 billion in April this
year by Forbes, which ranked him the  95th wealthiest Russian .  Bank of Moscow declined to comment on Borodin’s statements
because they focus on the lender’s shareholders, spokesman Oleg
Fedorchenko said by e-mail yesterday.  VTB shares slid 0.2 percent to 7.2 kopeks by the close of
trading in Moscow, their biggest decline in a week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net 
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net 
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  