-- 
Ex-Galleon Trader Drimal Should Get 70- to 80-Month Prison Term, U.S. Says

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-08-25T22:16:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/ex-galleon-trader-drimal-should-get-70-to-80-month-prison-term-u-s-says.html
Craig Drimal, the former Galleon
Group LLC trader who pleaded guilty to  insider-trading  charges,
should get a prison term of 70 to 80 months, which is within
federal sentencing guidelines, the U.S. said in a court filing.  Drimal, 55, pleaded guilty in April in federal court in New
York charges of conspiracy and securities fraud. Drimal admitted
that he and others at Galleon traded on inside information
obtained from lawyers working on transactions involving 3Com
Corp. and Axcan Pharma Inc. in 2007. Drimal said the information
was obtained from Arthur Cutillo and Brien Santarlas, lawyers at
Boston-based Ropes & Gray LLP.  Drimal has suggested that the court impose community
service or home confinement in lieu of a “substantial” prison
term, prosecutors said. The request should be denied in order to
send a “strong message of deterrence to others in the hedge
fund community” and because the “nature and extent of his
criminal conduct doesn’t warrant community service,”
prosecutors said.  “Drimal has no excuse for his illegal conduct,”
prosecutors said in the sentencing memo, which was filed
yesterday. “He grew up in a stable, loving family with no
financial difficulties. He is a college graduate. He has a
loving and supportive family. He fully understood that insider
trading was illegal and yet repeatedly disregarded the law to
make a lot of money.”  Aug. 31 Sentencing  Drimal is scheduled to be sentenced by U.S. District Judge
 Richard Sullivan  on Aug. 31. Drimal’s attorney, Jane Anne
Murray, said she filed a memorandum last week asking the judge
impose a sentence below the federal guidelines.  “We’re not surprised by their position; it’s been
consistent,” Murray said in a phone interview. “We disagree
with the government on a number of issues including the
applicable guidelines. And we’re seeking a sentence that is
substantially lower than the one the government is seeking.”  Prosecutors also asked the court to obtain a judgment
against Drimal to recover the amount of the proceeds of his
crimes, which they said are at least $7 million.  Drimal made gross personal profits of about $6.47 million
from trades in 3Com and Axcan based on the information from the
Ropes & Gray lawyers, and provided material nonpublic
information to Galleon trader Michael Cardillo, who used the
tips to earn profits of about $731,505, prosecutors said in the
memo.  Guilty Plea  Cardillo pleaded guilty in January to securities fraud and
conspiracy and agreed to cooperate with the government. Cardillo
was ordered to pay more than $68,000 last month as part of an
SEC suit.  Drimal also earned about $4.3 million from trades based on
tips about the pending acquisition of Hilton Hotels Corp. in
2007, and about $950,117 from trades made on information about a
takeover of Kronos Inc., prosecutors said.  Drimal met with government representatives after  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  agents approached him before his arrest
in November 2009 and sought his cooperation, prosecutors said in
the memo. Drimal then contacted former Galleon Group trader  Zvi Goffer  and told him about the probe, contrary to instructions
Drimal was given, prosecutors said.  Drimal also lied to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission personnel in July 2008 when they interviewed him
about the reason why he bought Axcan stock, prosecutors said.  Goffer was convicted of all 14 counts against him in June,
in the second trial of defendants charged in a nationwide
investigation of insider trading at  hedge funds . Goffer’s former
boss, Galleon Group co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , was convicted of
insider trading in May. Prosecutors are seeking a sentence of
more than 24 years when Rajaratnam is sentenced Sept. 27.  Cutillo, who pleaded guilty in January, was sentenced to 30
months in prison in June. Santarlas, who pleaded guilty and
testified at the Goffer trial, hasn’t been sentenced.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  