-- 
Executives Comment on Jobs Resignation as Apple CEO: Voices

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-25T14:20:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/executives-comment-on-jobs-resignation-as-apple-ceo-voices.html
Technology industry executives and
investors comment on the resignation of Steve Jobs as chief
executive officer of Apple Inc.:  Jim Hagemann Snabe, co-chief executive officer of German
software maker SAP AG:  “He singlehandedly changed the consumer IT industry and we
thank him for his visionary leadership and wish him and his
family all the best.  “Apple is one of SAP’s customers and a great partner. We
are convinced that Apple’s outstanding success will continue
with the new management under the leadership of Tim Cook.”  Stephen Elop,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  chief executive officer:  “Steve Jobs is a visionary in the computer industry. We
look forward to both Steve and his team having a positive impact
on our industry for many years to come.”  Martin Sorrell , chief executive officer of WPP Plc, the
world’s largest advertising company:  “He’s done an incredible job, particularly when you think
he left the company previously. He has an incredible and unique
feel for consumer needs, design, technology and marketing.  “He’s unique and by definition that means he’s impossible
to replace.”  Kai-fu Lee, former head of  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s operations in
China, who now runs his own venture capital company in China:  “Steve’s magic is probably not with the suppliers, it’s
with Apple fans and Apple customers, and the media, and
shareholders of course, and also interestingly the entertainment
industry. That was the magic that made iTunes: the ability to
change the entire  music industry ! I think that so-called
reality-distortion capability is probably irreplaceable.  “Apple is a strong company that can operate with his
limited participation and I think it will operate well even
without his participation.”  Howard Stringer ,  Sony Corp. (6758)  chairman and chief executive
officer:  “His brilliance has been well-documented, but what gets
forgotten is the bravery with which he’s confronted his illness.
For him to achieve this much success under these circumstances
doubles his legacy.”  Frank Quattrone , Silicon Valley investment banker and chief
executive officer of Qatalyst Partners LLP:  “Under Steve’s leadership, Apple has not only
revolutionized the computer industry but also transformed how
the world communicates, plays, shops and works. In the
Entrepreneur Hall of Fame, he is the Charter Member. He is, and
will remain, an inspiration to the world.”  Steve Wozniak, co-founder of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , in an interview on
Bloomberg Television:  “To think that I knew somebody who became the most
important person in the world. It’s actually -- it’s kind of
stunning.”  “Steve has made a lot of sacrifices, and now he’s going to
have some time for his life -- rather than being pulled by all
these things around him that you kind of have to do. He’ll have
a lot more time to do the ones he wants to. And I’m hoping
that’s the case.”  “I know that he’ll keep his nose to the ground. He’ll know
what’s going on. And he’ll be chairman, right?”  Hussein Kanji, venture capitalist:  “This is not just a product he’s creating, it’s a company
he’s creating that is very much in his image.”  “The big question is whether there’s someone at the helm
who can kind of say no to all the different things it’s doing
and focus it on the one or two products that matter. That is
 Steve Jobs ’s biggest gift and it’s the one thing that as an exec
in the tech industry he’s probably hands down the best at.”  Marc Benioff, chief executive officer of Salesforce.com, in
a Twitter post:  “Steve Jobs is the greatest leader our industry has ever
known. It’s the end of an era.”  Arnold Schwarzenegger , actor and former  California 
governor, in a Twitter post:  “Steve Jobs is one of California’s greatest innovators.
Very few achieved his impact over the last 50 years and probably
the next 100 years.”  Jason Hirschhorn, former president of MySpace Inc. and
Sling Media Inc. and chief digital officer of  MTV Networks , in a
Twitter post:  “Steve Jobs is one of my all-time heroes.”  On Apple: “Safe to assume their bench is deep, Tim Cook is
the real deal and there is a stellar roadmap. Wonder what market
will say in AM?”  Bill Gurley, general partner at Benchmark Capital, a  Menlo
Park , California-based early-stage venture capital firm, in a
Twitter post:  “Steve Jobs’s run at Apple is likely the very best CEO
execution we will see in our lifetime. Amazing.”  Xie Daxiong, executive vice president at  ZTE Corp. (000063) , China’s
second-largest maker of equipment for mobile phone networks:  “Steve Jobs is undoubtedly an innovation pioneer and Apple
is a great company. We would like to show our sincere respect to
the big changes Apple and Steve have brought to the industry in
the past few years.”  Freddie Liu, chief financial officer of TPK Holding Co. in
Taipei, which supplies touch-panels for Apple’s iPad and iPhone:  Apple “is a very competitive company, so I don’t think any
changes in the management will significantly damage or change
the direction of that company.”  “Given the way they have come up with new products,
usually products two or three generations down the road are
already in the road map, so I don’t think it’s going to change
that much.”  “Plus, he’ll still act as chairman of the company, so I
really don’t think there’ll be any major changes in terms of the
company’s road map, strategy and products.”  Mitsushige Akino, chief  fund manager  at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co. in Tokyo:  “There won’t be much impact on Apple’s management. The
stock might be sold temporarily. Steve Jobs’s health problem was
already talked about.”  “Apple’s management was partly dependent on the
charismatic manager, so if he is going to step away, Apple may
have come to a threshold. Apple may already have peaked out in
terms of the market capitalization and stock price, so this
resignation may become the symbol of that.”  Naoki Fujiwara, who oversees about 60 billion yen ($780
million) in Tokyo as chief fund manager at Shinkin Asset
Management Co.:  “The company’s stock price is likely to bounce back.”  “He will not completely leave Apple, and it’s hard to
believe that his power at the company will suddenly disappear.
We all know that he can deliver. There is concern about the
company’s next round of product development.”  Stephane Richard, France Telecom SA chief executive
officer:  “We wish Steve Jobs all the best in a courageous fight
against illness. We have great confidence in  Tim Cook , who is a
partner of high quality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  