-- 
Expanding Waistlines May Boost U.S. Health Cost $66 Billion a Year by 2030

-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 
2011-08-25T22:42:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/expanding-waistlines-may-boost-u-s-health-cost-66-billion-a-year-by-2030.html
U.S. health-care spending will rise
by as much as $66 billion a year by 2030 because of increased
obesity if historic trends continue, researchers said.  Almost 100 million Americans and 15 million Britons are
already considered obese, based on body-mass index, a ratio of
weight to height,  Y. Claire Wang , an epidemiologist at Columbia
University’s Mailman School of  Public Health  in  New York , said
yesterday at a London news conference.  Another 65 million American adults and another 11 million
British adults would join them in the next two decades based on
past trends, said Wang, one of the authors of a four-part series
on obesity published in today’s  Lancet . The increased cost
represents about 2.6 percent of the U.S.’s annual health-care
bill. In the U.K., costs would rise as much as 2 billion pounds
($3.3 billion) a year, or 2 percent of yearly health spending.  “We are in an obesity and chronic disease crisis although
it doesn’t feel like it,”  Boyd Swinburn , a professor at Deakin
University in  Melbourne  and another of the authors, said at the
press conference. “It’s a little bit like the frog sitting in
hot water -- it doesn’t realize that it’s going to boil until
it’s too late.”  Obesity rates have increased globally since the 1970s as
changes in the  food supply  affect what people eat, Swinburn
said. The condition has been driven primarily by the “passive
overconsumption” of more processed, affordable, available and
promoted food, he said.  UN Meeting  The  United Nations  will hold its first high-level meeting
on noncommunicable diseases in New York Sept. 19-20 and
government leaders there need to address the worldwide obesity
epidemic, the researchers said.  “Governments certainly need to lead obesity prevention but
so far few have shown any leadership,” said  Steven Gortmaker , a
professor at the  Harvard School of Public Health  in  Boston  and
one of the authors of the Lancet report. “If we have no
measures and don’t set any targets we’re not going to make a lot
of progress.”  Taxes on unhealthy foods and beverages, “traffic-light”
style labels and reduced advertising of junk food and beverages
to children are among the measures that governments should
consider to improve health and save on costs, Gortmaker said. He
said food manufacturers had resisted efforts that could help
address the  obesity crisis  and compared them to  tobacco
companies  fighting anti-smoking campaigns.  The authors said while national plans to combat obesity
have yielded few results, two “positive signs for the future”
are the U.K.’s cross-government strategy of marketing
restrictions and improving school food and, in the U.S., first
lady  Michelle Obama ’s campaign to reduce  childhood obesity . She
has pushed to make food labeling easier to understand,
encouraged schools to increase exercise levels and reached
agreements with companies such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the
nation’s largest retailer, to sell healthier food.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  