-- 
Fast-Talking Yale Football Player Brings Auctioneering to Campus

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-08-25T04:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/fast-talking-yale-football-player-brings-auctioneering-to-campus.html
Jeff Marrs isn’t the first farmer to
attend class with the sons of corporate titans at  Yale
University . He just might be the first licensed and practicing
auctioneer.  The 6-foot-3, 270-pound guard from Garden Prairie,
Illinois, has his own auction business that he runs with his
siblings and father. The junior, who grew up on his family’s
farm, plays on a Bulldogs football team that includes the sons
of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Financial Officer  Peter Oppenheimer , Major
League Baseball Vice President John McHale Jr. and U.S. Rep. Jim Moran of  Virginia .  “I’m around guys with a lot of different backgrounds, but
we’re all there playing football and doing the best we can,”
Marrs, a junior psychology major, said in an interview. “I
guess that’s what keeps us together.”  Yale, which hasn’t won an Ivy League championship since
2006 when it tied with  Princeton University , was picked to
finish third in the Ivy League behind the  University of
Pennsylvania  and  Harvard University .  The Bulldogs open the season at home against  Georgetown
University  on Sept. 17 and host  Cornell  in their first  Ivy
League  game Sept. 24. Like the rest of the league, which
comprises eight elite universities in the northeastern U.S.,
Yale doesn’t give athletic scholarships and doesn’t participate
in postseason playoffs. It has been playing football since 1872.  Marrs, whom Yale football coach Tom Williams describes
alternately as “hilarious” and “violent,” earned a varsity
letter in his first year after arriving at the  New Haven ,
 Connecticut , school from Boylan Catholic High School in Rockford
Illinois.  Home on Farm  Off the field, the 20-year-old is polite, easy-going and
can tell a story well enough to be a standup comedian, Williams
said. Marrs grew up on a 2,000-acre corn and soybean farm about
20 miles south of the Wisconsin line in  Illinois . His family has
owned the farm since 1843.  He is studying at a university that matriculated five U.S.
presidents, seven current members of the  U.S. Senate  and 25
Nobel Laureates.  As a freshman, Marrs was required to introduce himself to
the team and tell something about himself. He said he was an
auctioneer, demonstrated his skill and left his teammates
laughing.  Auction School  He got his introduction to auctioneering at the age of 14,
when his grandfather -- a 45-year veteran of the business --
sent him to the  World Wide College of Auctioneering Inc.  in
Mason City,  Iowa . After that, Marrs would work at his
grandfather’s auctions each summer.  Marrs has auctioned animals including chicks and cattle,
and at estate sales, everything from  slot machines  to toilet
plungers. Sometimes, he acknowledges, he can’t always identify
an item before it goes up for auction. He likes to tell the
story of when he picked up what he thought was a pair of pliers
at a farm sale he attended with his grandfather.  “That’s not a pair of pliers,” one of his grandfather’s
friends said. “That’s for castrating cattle.”  Marrs now runs his Marrs Auction Service, paying employees
from the 10 percent of the sale price he gets. His sister Lisa,
25, is his clerk; his sister Katie, 29, his cashier; and his
father, Jim, holds up the items and helps identify bidders. His
grandfather, Jerry, died in May 2010 at the age of 84.  Team Fund-Raising  He used his talents to help his team raise money this month
to help defray the costs of football recruiting, travel and
equipment. The event raised $24,650.  Marrs said he isn’t sure if he wants to take an Ivy League
degree back to the family farm in Garden Prairie -- he said his
three older siblings aren’t interested in running it -- or
become a counselor. Wherever he winds up, he won’t give up
auctioneering.  “I have so many great memories and so much fun,” Marrs
said. “This will be part of my life for many, many years to
come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  