-- 
FDA Should Recall Surgical Mesh for Women, Public Citizen Says

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-08-25T21:33:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/fda-should-recall-surgical-mesh-for-women-public-citizen-says.html
Surgical mesh products made by
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  to correct falling
pelvic organs in women should be immediately recalled because of
painful side effects, a watchdog group said.  Mesh products made of non-absorbable synthetic material can
erode and cause pain, bleeding and urinary incontinence, Public
Citizen, based in Washington, said in a statement today. The
mesh is implanted through incisions made in the wall of the
vagina to reinforce the tissues around the pelvic organs.  The watchdog group, founded by  Ralph Nader , estimates that
67,500 women had the non-absorbable mesh implanted last year.
The  Food and Drug Administration  received 1,503 reports of
complications associated with the material from January 2008 to
December 2010 when used to repair pelvic organ prolapse, the
agency said in a  safety  warning July 13.  “Even the FDA seriously questions the safety and
effectiveness of these mesh products, so they should be removed
from the market immediately,” Michael Carome, deputy director
of  Public Citizen ’s Health Research Group, said in a statement.  The FDA has also said it’s not clear whether the mesh is
more effective than surgery without it. Jeff Secunda, a vice
president at the Washington lobbying group the Advanced Medical
Technology Association, said the mesh “is an important
treatment option.”  Recent innovations have helped device makers standardize
materials and made the procedure more consistent for surgeons,
he said.  The material is made by at least nine  manufacturers ,
according to the FDA.  Public Citizen wants the FDA to require manufacturers to
recall non-absorbable surgical mesh devices and future versions
to be subject to more stringent approval requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 