-- 
Fed Pledge Inflates Hong Kong’s Misery With Currency Peg: Chart of the Day

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   R i c h a r d   F r o s t
-- 
2011-08-25T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/fed-s-pledge-inflates-hong-kong-misery-with-currency-peg-chart-of-the-day.html
A U.S. pledge to keep  interest rates 
at record lows through mid-2013 is no boon for Hong Kong, where
a “misery index” has climbed the most in the world because of
inflation fueled by cheap funding.  The gauge, which sums the jobless rate and the annual
increase in consumer prices, jumped 570 basis points in the 12
months through July to the highest level in more than 15 years. 
It was the biggest gain of 56 countries tracked by Bloomberg.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the misery index alongside
Federal Reserve cuts to borrowing costs, as investors focus on
whether Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will today signal more stimulus
in a speech at  Jackson Hole , Wyoming. The bottom panel shows the
dollar’s weakness against the currencies of six U.S. trading
partners. An exchange-rate peg means Hong Kong’s interest rates
track those of the Fed and the city’s currency falls with the
dollar, boosting import costs.  “Inflation in the city will continue to accelerate because
of the Fed’s pledge to keep rates low,” said Raymond Yeung, a
senior economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
in Hong Kong. “This will only heighten politicians’ demands for
a change to the currency peg.” Yeung says a faster pace of
gains by the yuan will also fuel inflation in the city.  In January, lawmakers Chim Pui Chung and Lam Tai Fai urged
a review of the peg. HSBC Holdings Plc chief executive  Stuart Gulliver  and his counterpart at the Bank of East Asia Ltd.,
David Li, say any shift by Hong Kong could be to a link with a
basket of  currencies. Financial Secretary John Tsang said this
month that the existing arrangement is good for financial
stability and there’s no plan for a change.  Arthur Okun, an adviser to Presidents  John F. Kennedy  and
 Lyndon Johnson , came up with the misery index in the 1960s.
Inflation of 7.9 percent took Hong Kong’s gauge to 11.3 percent
for July, still less than a third of the 34 percent level for
the most miserable nation, Venezuela.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in  Hong Kong  at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Frost in Hong Kong at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  