-- 
Hurricane Irene Poses Test to Retooled U.S. Emergency Agency

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-08-26T11:06:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/fema-put-to-test-as-hurricane-supplies-moved-to-new-jersey-massachusetts.html
The  Federal Emergency Management
Agency , credited by local authorities for its response to
tornadoes earlier this year, faces another and grander test as
Hurricane Irene advances.  Even as the reorganized agency stages for Irene’s onslaught
along the East Coast of the  United States , stationing hurricane
supplies in North Carolina,  New Jersey  and Massachusetts,
another federal agency that tracks severe weather is facing
budget cuts to a system that aids in predictions and advisories
about tornadoes and hurricanes.  The administrator of FEMA,  Craig Fugate , has stressed local
preparedness and evacuation orders by state and local officials.
Local authorities were faulted for evacuations in advance of
 Hurricane Katrina  during the  Bush administration , with FEMA then
run by Michael D. Brown.  Fugate’s FEMA is “very much leaning forward and getting
their teams prepositioned at the state level to provide
assistance quickly,” said Mark Merritt, who was deputy chief of
staff at FEMA during the Clinton administration with director
James Lee Witt and is president of  Witt Associates  in
 Washington .  “People need to be ready to evacuate so it’s less of a
strain on the system and there are fewer people to take care
of,” Merritt said in an interview, crediting Fugate for
“focusing way in advance in telling people to get ready.”  FEMA, reshaped after criticism for its response to
Hurricane Katrina on the Gulf Coast in 2005, was praised by
local authorities for tornado response this year.  Former Paramedic  Fugate is a one-time paramedic from Gainesville,  Florida ,
who ran that state’s emergency management division before moving
to Washington. He deployed more than 1,000 workers to  Alabama ,
where more than 50 tornadoes struck in April. Fugate’s agency
was credited for its response to a tornado that killed at least
125 people in Joplin,  Missouri , on May 22.  “They have been nothing but great,” said John Bartosh,
presiding commissioner in Jasper County, Missouri, at the time.  Preparing for  Irene, a Category 2  hurricane with maximum
sustained winds of 110 mph, FEMA already has sent to  North
Carolina  such supplies as food, bottled water, medical
equipment, tarps and generators, Fugate said said on a
conference call yesterday with reporters. FEMA has dispatched
teams “all the way up the East Coast, including  Maine ,” and is
coordinating with local officials, he said.  Fugate urged residents along the East Coast to follow any
evacuation orders related to Irene.  ‘Delay Can Be Deadly’  “Delay can be deadly, and you’ll run out of time and lose
options,” he said.  Effects of the storm may spread as far inland as Baltimore
and Washington, officials said. There may be five to 10 inches
of rain in the mid-Atlantic and New England, U.S. National
Hurricane Center Director Bill Read said on yesterday’s call.  “Regardless of the fine details or where the center goes,
it’s going to bring into play all of the northeast corridor for
heavy rains, high winds, and coastal storm flooding,” Fugate
said.  Irene is forecast to grow larger as it moves toward North
Carolina’s Outer Banks this weekend. It could hit the Northeast
as early as Aug. 28, according to the National Hurricane Center
track projection.  FEMA is stocking emergency supplies in Fort Bragg, North
Carolina; Westover Air Reserve Base in  Massachusetts ; and
McGuire Air Force Base in New Jersey.  Atlanta Preparations  The agency maintains commodities, including millions of
liters of water, millions of meals and hundreds of thousands of
blankets, at distribution centers. In Atlanta, the agency counts
more than 2 million liters of water, more than 1.3 million meals
and more than 16,000 cots and 56,000 blankets.  Still, a budget gap may soon leave a hole in the U.S.
weather-data system used to make predictions in severe storms.
The $12 billion Joint Polar Satellite System originally planned
to launch a replacement orbiter in 2014. The craft won’t get
into space until 2017 or later as a result of a funding cut in
the federal fiscal year 2011 budget.  “A loss of polar-orbiting satellite observations will
result in some degradation in hurricane track and intensity
forecasts in the important three-to-five day coastal evacuation
planning period,” John Leslie, a spokesman for the  National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration , said in an e-mail.  FEMA also was preparing the nation’s capital for severe
weather. The dedication of the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial
on the National Mall in Washington on Aug. 28, at which
President  Barack Obama  plans to speak, was postponed
indefinitely due to the approaching storm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  