-- 
Five Mile Said to Talk With Innkeepers on Hotels After Cerberus Backs Out

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-08-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/five-mile-capital-said-to-talk-with-innkeepers-after-cerberus-backs-out.html
Five Mile Capital Partners LLC is in
talks with  Innkeepers USA Trust  after Cerberus Capital
Management LP said this week it will walk away from an agreement
to buy 64 Innkeepers’ hotels, according to two people with
knowledge of the discussions.  Five Mile, which lost to Cerberus in a May auction of the
Innkeepers’ properties, remains interested as it nears
completion of a separate deal to take control of as many as 140
Red Roof Inns, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the information is private. The Stamford, Connecticut-
based investment firm’s talks with Innkeepers are at an early
stage and may not lead to a deal, they said.  “Bidders who lost the last time may jump at the chance to
re-engage with Innkeepers now that the original deal has been
terminated,” said  Ben Thypin , director of market analysis for
Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-based property-research
firm. “As Five Mile closes in on a potential acquisition of Red
Roof, they may be more competitive now that they have a chance
to significantly grow their footprint in this sector.”  Calls to Brian Lennon, a lawyer for Palm Beach Florida-
based Innkeepers, and the offices of Five Mile weren’t returned.
 Peter Duda , a spokesman for New York-based Cerberus, declined to
comment.  Innkeepers, which operates 71 hotels under brands including
Residence Inn, Marriott and Hampton Inn, filed for  bankruptcy
protection  in July 2010 with a pre-arranged reorganization plan.
Cerberus, the private-equity firm best known for its buyout of
Chrysler, and  Chatham Lodging Trust (CLDT) , a Palm Beach-based hotel-
investment company, won the May auction with a $1.1 billion bid.
They topped a $970.7 million offer by Five Mile and a unit of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Adverse Change  Cerberus and Chatham said Aug. 22 that they had terminated
their deal with Innkeeepers, citing a possible adverse change in
the company’s business as the reason for backing out of the
transaction. Cerberus, which didn’t specify what triggered the
decision, is open to negotiating a lower price for Innkeepers,
said a person with knowledge of the matter, who asked not be
named because the firm is private.  Innkeepers, for which the sale was a key part of its
restructuring, is disputing Cerberus and Chatham’s right to back
out, and said in court papers that a judge may have to rule on
whether the agreement is voided.  Five Mile, which oversees about $2 billion, bought
distressed debt backed by Red Roof properties earlier this year,
the Wall Street Journal reported in May. The venture that owns
Red Roof, which includes Westmont Hospitality Group and
Citigroup Inc., had been negotiating with creditors since
defaulting on some $754 million in mortgages tied to 127 hotels
in 2009, according to Realpoint LLC, the newspaper said.  Caroline Davis, a spokeswoman in  New York  for Red Roof,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  