-- 
Fortuna Net Rises, Expects to Purchase Tipsport Polish Unit

-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 
2011-08-25T08:14:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/fortuna-net-rises-expects-to-purchase-tipsport-polish-unit-1-.html
Fortuna Entertainment Group NV (FORTUNA) , the
Czech betting company that sold shares last year, said first-
half profit rose 19 percent and it’s in talks to acquire
Tipsport 01 AS’s Polish unit.  Net income rose to 8.63 million euros ($12.5 million) from
7.24 million euros a year earlier, the Amsterdam-registered
company said in a regulatory filing today. Revenue rose 6.5
percent to 41.9 million euros.  Fortuna probably will reach an agreement with Tipsport
before the end of September to acquire its Polish unit, the
company said in a separate statement. The purchase would add 190
betting shops to Fortuna’s 390 outlets and boost its market
share to more than 33 percent, the company said. The value of
the transaction wasn’t disclosed.  “Our strategy is a combination of betting shops and online
betting,” Chief Executive Officer Jiri Bunda said in the
statement. “Boosting of our retail business will have a
positive impact on the start of the Internet betting in
 Poland .”  Polish lawmakers approved a bill in May that allows
licensed companies to offer online betting. Fortuna, which
applied for a license expects to get an approval from the Polish
Finance ministry in a few months, the company said.  Fortuna, and its owner Czech and Slovak private equity
group Penta Investments Ltd, tried to take over Sazka AS, the
Czech state lottery company that went bankrupt this year. Both
offers, one from Fortuna and one from Penta, were rejected and
Sazka’s administrator, Josef Cupka, announced a tender to choose
a new owner last week.  Fortuna, which listed in Prague and Warsaw after selling a
minority stake in an initial public offering in October, started
lottery operations in the  Czech Republic  in July. The company
plans to have 2,000 terminals for Loto by the end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  