-- 
Gazprom Defends Oil Link, Says Gas Customers Made ‘Mistakes’

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-08-26T17:17:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/gazprom-defends-oil-link-says-gas-customers-made-mistakes-.html
OAO Gazprom said it isn’t
responsible for its customers’ “strategic mistakes,” signaling
 Russia ’s gas-export monopoly may not compromise in a pricing
dispute with European utilities.  “In 2010, strategic mistakes were made in assessing the
market outlook, with hopes for very cheap gas and further
collapse of spot prices,” Sergei Komlev, head of pricing and
contract formation at Gazprom’s export division, said in an
interview at his Moscow office. Buyers are seeking “one-off
help, given the difficult situation they found themselves” in.  EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s biggest utilities, have sought
to weaken the link between gas and oil prices in the Russian
export monopoly’s supply contracts as oil costs surged. The
companies lost hundreds of millions of dollars in the past year
as they sold gas to customers at less than it cost to source.  Europe depends on Gazprom for about a quarter of its gas,
most of which is shipped through pipelines under long-term
contracts, and Germany is the exporter’s biggest market on the
continent. Gazprom and its German customers have agreed to
arbitration to resolve their dispute. RWE is Gazprom’s main
partner in the  Czech Republic , through the RWE Transgas unit.  Importers are seeking “a very big discount,” Komlev said,
declining to discuss specific customers or the arbitration.  ‘Deep Connection’  Gazprom indexes its prices to oil and oil products with a
lag of as long as nine months and expects to maintain those as
the dominant link in its contracts, Komlev said. Lowering gas
prices would involve linking them to another benchmark, he said.  “A deep connection between oil and gas prices has remained
and even grown stronger,” Komlev said. Gazprom last year agreed
to include some weight in its formula to short-term gas prices.  The monopoly’s European customers say their supply
contracts should have a greater link to these prices.  “Wholesale pricing is regarded as independent from the
oil-price indexed long-term gas contracts,” Annett Urbaczka, an
RWE spokeswoman, said by e-mail. Adrian Schaffranietz at EON
said contracts need to reflect the “growing importance of
trading markets.”  Gazprom’s average gas price under long-term contracts in
 Europe  is about $440 to $450 per 1,000 cubic meters, Komlev
said. The price is expected to average $400 this year, compared
with $306 last year.  Gas for next-month delivery at the Title Transfer Facility,
the Dutch hub, traded at 22.80 euros ($32.90) a megawatt-hour
today, or about $350 per 1,000 cubic meters. That compares with
about 18 euros a megawatt-hour a year earlier, according to
broker data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Sell Cheaply’  “Some of our partners expected they’d be able to sell gas
to their clients cheaply by mixing Russian and spot gas, which
turned out to be wrong,” Komlev said. “The first thing our
clients have to do is admit the mistake they have made during
the sales campaign of 2010. The general market obsession with
low spot prices has proved to be a wrong strategy.”  Europe can no longer abide a two-tier system, with the gap
between long- and short-term gas pricing,  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA Vice
Chairman Jean-Francois Cirelli said in May, speaking as head of
the Eurogas industry group.  Gazprom is holding “commercial consultations” with
customers including EON Ruhrgas, RWE Transgas, GDF Suez and  Eni
SpA (ENI) , according to a report on the company’s  website .  “The formula Gazprom uses in Europe is starting to get
old,” Artem Konchin, an oil and gas analyst at UniCredit SpA,
said by phone. “In 20 to 30 years, the market will be
absolutely liquid and mobile and may resemble the oil market.”  Patterns Diverge  The connection to oil markets may weaken in the “long
term” as supply patterns diverge, according to an article in
Gas Industry Journal’s August edition, co-written by Vlada Rusakova, head of strategy at Gazprom.  European customers expected spot prices to remain low when
they were signing one- or two-year contracts with clients last
year, Komlev said.  EON, which this month reported its first quarterly net loss
in 10 years, earlier this year sought to change the contract
formula to as much as a 100 percent spot indexation, two people
with knowledge of the matter said in February. Komlev said at
the time that Gazprom wouldn’t agree to the request.  RWE in April sought to “reach adjustments” allowing it to
sell gas profitably in a “structurally changed market,” Chief
Executive Officer  Juergen Grossmann  said. Germany’s second-
largest utility expects arbitration with Gazprom to yield
results in 2012 or 2013.  EON has declined 37 percent this year and fell 26 cents to
close at 14.43 euros in  Frankfurt  today. RWE fell 71 cents to
24.66 euros.  Volatile Spot Rates  Spot gas rates, which had fallen as the global economic
contraction left hubs with unwanted volumes, began to increase
in August 2010, meaning Gazprom’s partners sold fuel to their
clients at lower-than-market rates, Komlev said.  “The problem with the  spot market  is that it is not liquid
enough and spot prices are highly volatile,” Igor Kurinnyy, an
oil and gas analyst at ING Financial Markets in  London , said by
e-mail. “The oil link in Gazprom’s price formulas will stay in
place for the time being.”  The gap between spot and contract prices isn’t as
“gigantic” as it was in the past two years and will narrow
closer to winter because of seasonal demand, Komlev said.  Japan ’s nuclear disaster in March, which led  Germany  to
speed up its exit from atomic power, diverted some gas volumes
to  Asia , supporting demand and prices in Europe.  For European buyers, “the most critical phase has started
because it coincided with some companies’ closure of nuclear
 power plants ,” Komlev said. “If some partners are now seeing
problems, it’s in no way connected to the price for Russian
gas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  