-- 
Genting Profit Drops on Lower Takings in Singapore, U.K.

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 
2011-08-26T09:02:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/genting-profit-declines-with-takings-at-singapore-gaming-resort.html
Genting Bhd. (GENT) , parent of  Asia ’s
second-biggest casino operator by market value, said second-
quarter profit fell 9 percent as takings dropped at its
Singapore and U.K. gaming businesses.  Net income declined to 673 million ringgit ($225 million),
or 18.17 sen a share, for the three months ended June 30, from
739.2 million ringgit, or 20 sen, a year earlier, the company
said in a filing to the  Kuala Lumpur  stock exchange late
yesterday. Revenue climbed to 4.5 billion ringgit from 4.1
billion ringgit.  The group’s expansion into businesses including power
generation and palm oil to cushion swings in casino takings
wasn’t enough to make up for the drop in gambling earnings. The
 Singapore  unit, after opening the Resorts World Sentosa theme
park in February 2010, earlier this month reported a 39 percent
decline in second-quarter profit.  “Weaker earnings were due to the poor VIP win rate at
Resorts World Sentosa and Genting UK,” Yin Shao Yang, an
analyst at Maybank Investment Bank Bhd., wrote in a report
today. The rate fell because the casinos were “less lucky,” he
said. He downgraded the stock to “hold” from “buy” and cut
his share-price estimate to 10.20 ringgit from 12.76 ringgit.  The Kuala Lumpur-based group is expanding its global reach,
with plans to open Resorts World New York in the fourth quarter
of this year and a Miami project to follow. The unit said in
December it is collaborating with a partner to explore
opportunities in Vietnam.  Genting fell 3.3 percent to 9.46 ringgit at the 5 p.m.
close in Kuala Lumpur trading, the lowest level since Sept. 9,
2010. The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index declined 1.4 percent.
The stock has fallen 15 percent this year.  The  Genting Singapore Plc (GENS)  unit reported a 39 percent drop
in second-quarter profit to S$243 million ($201 million) on Aug.
12.  ‘Challenging’ Environment  “Revenue from Resorts World Sentosa, the group’s
integrated resort in Singapore, was affected by the unfavorable
win percentage in the premium players business,” Genting said
in the statement. Revenue from the group’s U.K. casino
operations also fell, Genting said.  The plantations division saw revenue rise on higher palm-
 oil prices . Revenue from power also increased, Genting said.  -- Editors: Garry Smith, Dave McCombs  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid in  Hong Kong  at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  