-- 
German Shortage of Engineers Seen Threatening Automakers

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-08-26T09:14:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/german-shortage-of-engineers-seen-threatening-automakers-cars.html
Porsche AG and  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW) , predicting record sales for their luxury German cars
this year, are vying to find enough Wunderkinder to make them.  An aging workforce and declining enrollment in technical
studies caused the shortfall of available engineers in their
home country to rise to an all-time high of about 77,000 last
month, according to the VDI German engineering association.  BMW aims to hire 800 people at its factory in Leipzig, as
part of a 400 million-euro ($577 million) expansion for the
production of the i3 electric city car and the i8 hybrid super
car. Porsche is recruiting more than 1,000 workers for its plant
about 17 kilometers (11 miles) away, where it plans to add the
new Cajun compact sport-utility vehicle.  “Until about two years ago we had hardly heard of
companies in the region struggling to find skilled staff,”
Leipzig Mayor Burkhard Jung said in an interview. “But the
scarcity of engineers appears to have become an issue now.”  The shortage may threaten the competitiveness of BMW,
Porsche,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  as they expand and boost
development of electric vehicles. A third of Germany’s large
companies now consider a shortage of skilled workers as a
business risk, according to an Aug. 15 survey of more than 500
companies by the  DIHK  chamber of industry and commerce.  “It’s a very serious problem that could hold up research
and development of new cars,” said Willi Fuchs, director of the
VDI association.  Shares Drop  Porsche fell as much as 1.06 euros, or 2.5 percent, to
40.67 euros and was down 1.4 percent as of 11:12 a.m. in
Frankfurt trading. BMW was 0.8 percent lower at 53.38 euros,
while Daimler was down 0.4 percent to 35.61 euros. VW gained 0.2
percent to 108 euros.  Demand for new talent will only grow as BMW, VW’s Audi, and
Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz vie for the No. 1 position in the
luxury-car segment. BMW, the current leader, forecasts an
increase in deliveries to 2 million vehicles by 2020 from 1.6
million this year. Audi and Mercedes both aim to challenge their
Munich-based rival for the top spot in the coming years as they
target record 2011 sales and expand capacity.  German automakers are looking to counteract the trend by
recruiting people outside Germany from growth markets like  China 
and  India . They’re also partnering with universities to ensure
access to new talent and stepping up in-house training programs
to retrain staff on electric-powered vehicles.  Snatched Up  Jan Assmann, a German engineering student, got snapped up
in a job search that lasted less than two weeks. Assmann, who
will earn over 40,000 euros ($57,500) in his first year, only
wrote two applications before landing the position.  “I was going to stay at university after my studies to do
research, but the career opportunities convinced me to take up a
job straight away,” said the 25-year-old student at the
university of Bochum, who was sent a work contract 10 days after
applying at a software company that handles data management for
carmakers and other businesses.  With German unemployment at a post-reunification low of 7
percent, the government is seeking to address the dearth of
skilled staff by facilitating the hiring of foreign workers. In
June, it suspended rules requiring employers to prove a lack of
domestic applicants for specific job vacancies, Labor Ministry
spokeswoman Christina Wendt said. The government is also looking
into lowering the pay threshold that entitles a foreign worker
to stay in the country from the current 66,000 euros a year.  Higher Wages  Rising demand has pushed up wages. Compensation for auto
engineers has increased 7.6 percent since 2005 to an average
48,725 euros last year, VDI said. Management-level experts earn
84,200 euros, including holiday pay and Christmas bonuses, a
gain of 19 percent over the past five years.  Porsche, which aims to create more than 3,000 jobs over the
next three years to underpin its goal of doubling deliveries to
200,000 vehicles by 2018, has widened its recruitment outside
 Germany , where it’s also competing with other automakers.  “Manufacturers are now vying for talent from China, India
and other growth markets,” Thomas Edig, Porsche’s personnel
chief, said in an interview. “We also want to recruit employees
from China and India because we need their knowhow and
understanding of their home markets.”  Porsche is looking outside Germany to fill 130 engineering
positions in management, electronics and auto assembly at the
Leipzig factory, which is located on the site of a former Soviet
military training base. Some 30 positions need to be filled by
the end of the year to sustain expansion of the plant due to
start in October, said spokesman Heiner von der Laden.  Training Programs  To combat a potential shortage, BMW is running bachelor’s
degree programs at special colleges in Ingolstadt and Deggendorf
to educate engineers in-house. The manufacturer also partners
with Munich’s Technical University and  Clemson University  in
 South Carolina  and opened an education center for electric
mobility in May where it trains 150 workers a month.  Daimler, based near Porsche in Stuttgart, is enticing young
engineers with the security of an unlimited employment contract
as part of a trainee program, according to Dominique Albrecht, a
spokeswoman for the manufacturer. The company also offers health
and fitness programs to keep staff on the job longer.  Back in Leipzig, the city is in talks with the local HTWK
university of applied sciences to help speed up engineer
training for the region’s growing needs, which also include a
new logistics center from Deutsche Bahn AG’s Schenker unit.  “As business in and around the city keeps growing, one of
the challenges will be to ensure a healthy supply of fresh
talent,” said Jung, Leipzig’s mayor. “We will increasingly
have to look in random places to recruit people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  