-- 
German Stocks Sink Amid Speculation of Extended Short-Sale Bans

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-08-25T17:40:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/german-stocks-sink-amid-speculation-of-extended-european-short-sale-bans.html
German stocks tumbled, pushing the
DAX Index down 4 percent during one 15-minute stretch, as
traders rushed to sell futures to hedge equities amid
speculation bans on short selling would be extended.  The DAX retreated 1.7 percent to 5,584.14 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in  Frankfurt . The benchmark gauge earlier plunged as much
as 4 percent as volume in futures jumped to a quarter of the
daily average between 3:45 p.m. and 4:15 p.m. A total of 50,000
contracts changed hands during the period, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed. The Euro Stoxx 50 Index of the euro-area’s
biggest companies lost 1 percent to 2,216.7.  German shares have declined more than gauges in  France ,
 Spain  and  Italy  after the countries prohibited new short bets in
financial stocks, according to Bloomberg data. DAX futures
plunged as much as 7.1 percent on Aug. 18, falling 100 points in
less than two seconds, amid speculation France’s ban on shorts
would keep traders from exchanging contracts on the CAC Index
that were due to expire the next day.  “The DAX is now the preferred hedge after many people
can’t short the Euro Stoxx anymore, and the market just doesn’t
have the liquidity to absorb that in such a short time,” said
Lex van Dam, a London-based  fund manager  at Hampstead Capital
LLP, which oversees $500 million.  The DAX has dropped for the past four weeks as concern
escalated that the global economy is slowing and the euro-area
debt crisis spread to Italy and Spain, bringing the decline from
this year’s high on May 2 to 26 percent. A report today showed
U.S. jobless claims unexpectedly climbed by 5,000 to 417,000
last week.  Bans Extended  After the close of trading today, French, Italian and
Spanish regulators extended temporary bans on short selling
introduced this month. Spain and Italy lengthened their
restrictions through Sept. 30 and France’s Autorite des Marches
Financiers said its prohibitions could last as long as Nov. 11.  The three countries, along with  Belgium , imposed bans on
short-selling of some financial stocks in an effort to stabilize
markets after European banks including Societe Generale SA hit
their lowest levels since the credit crisis of 2008. The
restrictions cover short selling of shares and equity
derivatives in some financial firms.  It “seems clients sold DAX futures to protect portfolios
against other risks,” said Michael Scholz,  executive director 
for client solutions and derivatives at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf.
“It was a strange move selling the DAX futures in 30 minutes.”  Further Restrictions  Today’s selloff sparked speculation that German regulators
may follow France and Spain in imposing further short-selling
restrictions and increased concern the nation’s finances are
deteriorating. German regulator BaFin has “all the regulation
in place” on short selling, press officer Dominika Kula said.
CNBC reported that  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service
and Fitch Ratings all affirmed their ratings on German
government debt.  “Everyone is trying to explain the selloff with rumors of
a German downgrade or a German short-sale ban,” Hampstead
Capital’s Van Dam said. “The real reason is there was a huge
sell order in the DAX futures.”  A block trade of 2,583 September DAX futures, the biggest
of the day, traded at 5,443 at 4:03 p.m. in Frankfurt, Bloomberg
data show. The trade was worth 351 million euros ($504 million)
and preceded the session’s low of 5,439.5 by one second.  Utilities and chemical companies led the selloff in
Frankfurt as all but five stocks fell on the benchmark DAX. EON
AG, the nation’s biggest power company, dropped 3.1 percent to
14.68 euros while RWE AG retreated 3.9 percent to 25.37 euros.  BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s largest chemical company, retreated
3.3 percent to 48.25 euros and K&S AG,  Europe ’s biggest potash
producer, lost 2.9 percent to 43.32 euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  