-- 
German Stocks Advance for Third Day; Banks, ThyssenKrupp Climb

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-08-25T12:29:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/germany-s-benchmark-dax-climbs-for-third-day-siemens-bayer-daimler-gain.html
German stocks advanced for a third
day led by a rally in banks as investors continued to weigh
whether Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will take
further measures to support the world’s largest economy.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  both climbed more than
3 percent after  France ’s Credit Agricole SA reported profit that
fell less than analysts had estimated.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  rose 3.9
percent as Nomura Holdings Inc. recommended the steelmaker.
Daimler AG led carmakers higher.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  advanced 23.67, or 0.4 percent, to 5,704.75
at 2:28 p.m. in Frankfurt. The gauge climbed 2.7 percent
yesterday after a report showed that U.S. durable-goods orders
increased more than estimated, helping ease concern the economy
is heading for a recession. The broader HDAX Index rose 0.7
percent today.  “Bernanke has said consistently they will be
accommodative, but I am afraid you are not going to get the
golden bullet this weekend,” said Piers Hillier, chief
investment officer at Liverpool Victoria Asset Management Ltd.
in London.  U.S. central bankers meet this weekend in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming . At last year’s event, Bernanke hinted at a second round
of asset purchases, or so called quantitative easing, spurring a
28 percent jump in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index through April
29.  Commerzbank, Deutsche Bank  Commerzbank paced a rally in European lenders after  Credit
Agricole  reported an 11 percent drop in second-quarter profit to
339 million euros that still beat analysts’ estimates.  Germany ’s second-largest lender rallied 5.9 percent to 2.07
euros while Deutsche Bank, the country’s biggest bank, gained
3.6 percent to 28 euros.  “Broadly speaking the banks results have been better than
what people have been going for,” said Hillier in an interview
with Bloomberg Television. “You’ve had sovereign-debt risk
cascading down to banks. Fear and volatility has been there, but
we’ve used the opportunity to go from underweight to overweight
in that sector.”  Elsewhere, ThyssenKrupp rallied 3.9 percent to 22.49 euros
after Nomura recommended Germany’s largest steelmaker, saying
the shares don’t need economic growth.  “In a zero-growth environment, ThyssenKrupp should
materially outperform,” London-based analyst Neil Sampat wrote
in a report to clients. He reiterated his “buy” rating on the
company.  Kloeckner & Co., the steel trader operating in 15 countries
in  Europe  and  North America , advanced 2 percent to 10.83 euros,
extending yesterday’s 6.9 percent surge.  Daimler, BMW, Volkswagen  Daimler AG (DAI)  led carmakers higher, climbing 2.5 percent to
36.96 euros as Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. reiterated its
positive stance on the industry in Europe.  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW)  climbed 2.9 percent to 55.13 euros and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
preferred shares increased 1.7 percent to 111 euros.  “Perhaps the market is accurately anticipating another
global recession and will make auto stocks impossible to invest
in,” Bernstein wrote in a report. “But, to date, we see few
signs of a serious slowdown in end-market demand.”  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8)  advanced 2.4 percent to 37.72
euros after UBS AG upgraded Germany’s largest cable operator to
“buy” from “neutral.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  