-- 
Consumer Confidence in Germany Poised to Drop on Growth Concern, GfK Says

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-08-25T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/german-consumer-confidence-is-poised-to-drop-on-growth-concern-gfk-says.html
German  consumer confidence  will drop
for a sixth month in September as households fret that a global
economic slowdown will sap growth,  GfK SE (GFK)  said.  The Nuremberg-based market-research company today forecast
that its consumer sentiment index, based on a survey of about
2,000 people, will decline to 5.2 from a revised 5.3 in August.
Economists predicted a drop to 5.1 from the initial August
estimate of 5.4, according to the median of 26 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  German business and investor confidence plummeted this
month on concern that  Europe  won’t be able to contain its debt
crisis and protect its banks from the turmoil. Concerns about a
renewed global slowdown have resurfaced as growth weakens in the
euro region, the U.S. and  Asia , damping export demand.  “Consumers fear that  Germany ’s economy will be hurt by the
weakness in the global economy,” GfK said in a statement. An
increase in households’ willingness to spend may be partially
explained by “Germans’ concerns about the euro’s stability and
their preference for buying high-value goods rather than putting
the money in the bank,” GfK said.  GfK’s measure of households’ economic expectations plunged
to 13.4 points in August from 44.6 in July, the lowest since
June 2010. The index of consumers’ willingness to spend rose to
36.9 from 34.1, while a gauge of income expectations slipped to
27.6 from 34.6.  German growth slowed to just 0.1 percent in the second
quarter from 1.3 percent in the first, the Federal Statistics
Office reported on Aug. 16.  The Bundesbank said this week it still expects the German
economy to expand about 3 percent this year as unemployment at a
two-decade low of 7 percent bolsters household spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  