-- 
Germany’s BaFin Has ‘All the Regulation in Place’ on Shorts

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-08-25T16:46:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/germany-s-bafin-has-all-the-regulation-in-place-on-shorts-1-.html
Germany doesn’t plan to follow steps
by  France ,  Italy  and Spain today by adding to curbs on short
selling to stem market volatility.  Financial market regulator BaFin has “all the regulation
in place” regarding short selling in equities, press officer
Dominika Kula said, in response to a question on whether the
agency may ban the practice. The  Finance Ministry , which
oversees BaFin, also denied talk that it planned to extend the
country’s ban on naked short sales to all transactions.  German stocks and index futures tumbled as traders were
whipsawed by speculation that regulators were poised to impose
restrictions on the equity market, and amid concern the nation’s
finances are deteriorating. The  DAX Index (DAX)  retreated 1.7 percent
to 5,584.14 at the 5:30 p.m. close in  Frankfurt , rebounding from
an earlier drop of 4 percent.  French, Italian and Spanish stock-market regulators today
decided to extend temporary bans on short selling introduced
this month in a bid to stem market volatility.  Spain and Italy extended their bans through Sept. 30,
regulators in both countries said in a statement. France’s
Autorite des Marches Financiers said its ban could last as long
as Nov. 11.  The three countries, along with Belgium, imposed bans on
short-selling of some financial stocks earlier this month in an
attempt to stabilize markets after European banks including
Societe Generale SA hit their lowest levels since the credit
crisis of 2008. The restrictions cover short selling of shares
and equity derivatives in some financial firms.  Germany  has led the attempts to outlaw some financial-
market instruments, applying a temporary unilateral ban in May
2010 as yields on Greek bonds soared. A law banning certain
naked short-selling was enacted later that year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexis Xydias at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net  