-- 
DAX Rallies on Signs Global Economy May Avoid Recession; Allianz Gains

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-08-29T16:08:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/gildemeister-rwe-volkswagen-may-move-german-equities-preview.html
German stocks gained, rebounding
from two days of losses, after signs the global economy may
avoid slipping back into recession and Hurricane Irene subsided.  Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe ’s biggest insurer, climbed 3.3 percent,
and Munich Re, the world’s largest reinsurer, rose 4.1 percent
as the cost of storm damage in the U.S. appeared less than
anticipated.  Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-biggest sporting
goods brand, rose 3.7 percent after the Wall Street Journal
reported Chief Executive Officer Herbert Hainer is sticking to
sales forecasts.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  rallied 2.4 percent to 5,670.07 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt as all shares in the 30-member
gauge rose. The German benchmark has still fallen 25 percent
since this year’s peak on May 2. The wider HDAX index also
advanced 2.4 percent today.  “Stocks are catching up to U.S. indexes,” said Hendrik Koenig, an equity strategist at B. Metzler Seel. Sohn & Co.
KGaA, in  Frankfurt . “The market has probably priced in slower
economic growth and is stabilizing and looking forward to new
data coming out this week.”  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told participants
at the annual retreat of policy makers and economists in Jackson
Hole, Wyoming, this weekend that the U.S. central bank still has
a “range of tools” it could use to help the economy if needed.
U.S. consumer spending climbed more than forecast in July as
Americans dipped into savings to buy cars and cool their homes,
showing the biggest part of the  U.S. economy  is holding up.  Inflation Slowed  In Germany, a Finance Ministry spokeswoman told reporters
in Berlin that measures, including increasing the scope of the
European Financial Stability Facility and the Basel III accords
are already being taken to stabilize the euro area. The remarks
came in response to a call by  Christine Lagarde , the head of the
 International Monetary Fund , at  Jackson Hole , urging a mandatory
recapitalization of European banks.  Inflation in Europe’s largest economy slowed more than
economists forecast in August as seasonal food and energy prices
declined. The inflation rate, calculated using a harmonized
European Union method, fell to 2.4 percent from 2.6 percent in
July, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists predicted the rate would ease to 2.5 percent,
according to the median of 16 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Prices declined 0.1 percent in the month.  U.S. consumer purchases rose 0.8 percent in July, more than
the median 0.5 percent increase estimated by 74 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report showed contract
signings for sales of existing homes fell last month.  Insurers Gain  German insurers rose as the damage from Hurricane Irene’s
landfall into population centers on the U.S. eastern seaboard
like  New York  and Washington D.C. was less severe than
estimated.  Munich Re  climbed 4 percent to 89.17 euros while
Hannover Re rose 3.9 percent to 32.15 euros. Allianz gained 3.3
percent to 68.32 euros.  Adidas soared 3.7 percent to 47.65 euros after CEO Herbert
Hainer told the Wall Street Journal sporting goods are more
resistant to slow economic growth and that the company is
sticking to its target of an 11 percent operating margin in 2015
and a 15 percent earnings growth rate.  Porsche SE preferred shares rose 5.4 percent to 44.16 euros
as the sports-car maker led a gauge of European automobile and
parts makers higher.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the maker of Mercedes trucks,
limousines and sports cars, increased 1.7 percent to 36.21
euros.  Lanxess AG (LXS) , the chemicals maker spun off from Bayer AG in
2005, gained 6.2 percent to 42.27 euros after the shares lost
5.8 percent on Aug. 26 because Chief Executive Officer Axel
Heitmann sold stock worth 9.88 million euros.  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM)  soared 6.9 percent to 12.63 euros
after the German broadcasting group said it will buy back
shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  