-- 
Glencore ‘Aggressively’ Chases Acquisitions Following Slump in Valuations

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-08-25T15:58:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/glencore-international-says-first-half-profit-rises-57-to-2-45-billion.html
Glencore International Plc, the
largest publicly traded commodities company, is “aggressively”
studying mergers and acquisitions after reporting a 57 percent
jump in first-half profit and as market valuations slide.  “We are an opportunistic company, we are in a fortunate
position in that now we have the robust balance sheet to look at
assets more aggressively,” Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg, 54, told reporters today on a conference call from
 London . “Companies are a lot cheaper,” he said. “It’s
definitely, we believe, a very opportune time.”  Glencore, which owns mines, plants and warehouses, sold $10
billion in stock in May in the world’s biggest initial public
offering this year, ending more than three decades operating as
a closely held partnership. About $6 trillion has been wiped off
the value of global equities this month on signs economic growth
is slowing in the U.S. and as speculation mounts that the
sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  is spreading.  “A large part of the agenda for listing was to make those
acquisitions, cash and share offers, and it’s got the
flexibility and the liquidity to do so,”  Greg Smith , managing
director of Fat Prophets, said in an interview with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” in London. “It
will be ongoing, they will be looking at volatility, or weakness
if you want to call it that, as opportunity.”  Four-Day Gain  The company fell 0.3 percent to 388.5 pence by the 4:30
p.m. close of London trading, erasing an earlier gain of as much
as 6.2 percent and valuing Glencore at about 27 billion pounds
($44 billion). It sold shares in the IPO at 530 pence each.  “We expect Glencore to continue with acquisition
activity,” RBC Capital Markets analyst Miriam Hehir wrote today
in an e-mailed note, citing its $285 million bid yesterday for
 Minara Resources Ltd. (MRE)  “Glencore’s outlook statements are
encouraging and the balance sheet position is in line with our
expectations.”  Underlying demand for commodities was “generally robust”
in the period and the company remains optimistic about long-term
global economic prospects, Glasenberg said today in a statement.  Net income before other significant items rose to $2.45
billion in the first half, from $1.56 billion a year earlier,
the Baar, Switzerland-based company said in the statement. The
trader will pay a first interim dividend of 5 cents a share.  ‘Solid’ Performance  “The headline will be marketing’s performance in the
second-quarter’s weaker price environment,” Liberum Capital
Ltd. wrote in an e-mailed note, adding the result was “solid.”  Adjusted earnings before interest and tax rose 45 percent
to $1.25 billion in the marketing division and 54 percent at the
company’s industrial unit to $2.05 billion, the company said.  “The volumes are still strong in  Asia ,” Glasenberg said.
“The Chinese see this as buying opportunities, and we see
increased purchasing in  China .”  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company,
yesterday said it is confident in the commodities outlook and
sees “robust demand” in the short- and medium-term.  “We remain optimistic about long-term global economic
prospects, and that the trends that underpin the growth of
Glencore’s business are firmly in place,” Glasenberg said in
the statement. “The drive towards greater urbanization and
improved living standards in countries such as China and  India 
will continue to underpin the growth in global trade.”  Second-Quarter Profit  The company posted a 32 percent increase in sales to $92.1
billion in the six months. Second-quarter profit was $1.15
billion, spokesman  Simon Buerk  confirmed. That’s down from the
$1.3 billion Glencore reported on June 14 for the first quarter,
when the company posted a 47 percent year-on-year gain.  “We forecast marketing earnings to improve in the second
half of 2011 with metals and minerals benefiting from higher
industrial volumes,”  Heath Jansen , a London-based analyst at
Citigroup Inc., said today in an e-mailed report.  The average level of the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index
of 24 commodities rose 34 percent in the six months from the
same period a year earlier. Melbourne-based BHP, which reported
fiscal 2011 profit of $23.7 billion yesterday, said demand
“will be supported by commodities-intensive emerging economic
growth,” including China, India and other emerging economies.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  this month recommended investors
buy commodities because growth in emerging economies is enough
to tighten supply. The broker joined  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
Morgan Stanley in forecasting gains in commodity prices.  Glencore yesterday offered 87 Australian cents a share for
the stock in Minara Resources it doesn’t already own. The
company holds 73.44 percent of Minara,  Australia ’s second-
largest nickel producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  