-- 
Glencore, Rio Speed Partner Deals After Stock Declines

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-08-26T05:29:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/glencore-rio-speed-deals-as-stock-plunge-makes-partners-cheap.html
Glencore International Plc and Rio
Tinto Group are among miners buying out companies in which they
own stakes during the downturn in equity markets.  Katanga Mining
Ltd. (KAT)  and Extract Resources Ltd. may be the next targets, said
Liberum Capital Ltd. and Ord Minnett Ltd.  Mining companies have spent $15 billion this year boosting
their stakes in companies, with this quarter the strongest for
deals in the last four, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
In the midst of a four-week global equity rout that wiped about
$8 trillion of market value, Rio and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  today
raised their bid for Coal & Allied Industries Ltd. to A$1.53
billion ($1.6 billion) after Glencore offered to buy  Minara
Resources Ltd. (MRE)  on Aug. 24.  “Those companies that have cash on their balance sheet and
have that strength are taking advantage of this market
volatility,” BlackRock Inc.’s Catherine Raw, who helps manage
the $17 billion World Mining Fund, told  Andrea Catherwood  on
Bloomberg Television’s “Last Word” program, citing Rio’s offer
for Coal & Allied.  Glencore, the world’s largest publicly traded commodity
trader, will buy more assets, Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg said yesterday. This week he offered A$270 million in
cash to buy the shares in Australian nickel producer Minara
Glencore doesn’t already own. The offer was made after Minara
plunged 34 percent from its January peak this year of 97 cents.  ‘Obvious’ Target  The Baar, Switzerland-based company also owns 39.6 percent
of  Century Aluminum Co. (CENX)  after buying 503,343 shares this month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It also holds a 74
percent stake in Katanga Mining Ltd., through its company
Jangleglade Ltd., and 34.4 percent of  Xstrata Plc. (XTA)  Katanga is
down 37 percent from its peak of C$2.17 ($2.19) in April.  “Within the existing portfolio the obvious name to
replicate the Minara transaction is Katanga,” Dominic O’Kane, a
London-based mining analyst at Liberum, said by phone. “They
own 74 percent and in time we believe there would be an obvious
strategic desire to take outright ownership.” A call to the
office of Bermuda-based Katanga’s Chief Executive Officer John Ross was unanswered. Glencore spokesman  Simon Buerk  declined to
comment.  Glencore’s stake in Xstrata “is probably a longer-term
play, but it will have to be resolved one day,” Peter Arden, a
senior research analyst at Ord Minnett, said from  Melbourne .
 Extract Resources Ltd. (EXT) , aiming to develop the world’s third-
largest uranium mine, may also be a target for Rio, he said.
It’s down 25 percent from its March high. Extract Chief
Executive Officer Jonathan Leslie didn’t immediately return
calls to his London office.  Optimum Coal  Glencore is weighing a bid for  Optimum Coal Holdings (OPT)  Ltd.,
the Financial Times said yesterday, citing unnamed executives.
Optimum Coal is valued at about $1 billion and Glencore’s
share of deal could be $700 million, the newspaper said.
Glencore’s Buerk declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg
News. Optimum Coal is  South Africa ’s fourth-largest exporter of
coal used in power stations.  The plunge in equities has wiped 20 percent off the value
of mining companies, creating a buying opportunity for the
bigger producers holding cash who are optimistic about demand
for commodities in the years ahead. The six-biggest miners will
have $144 billion in cash by the end of 2013 and demand for
metals will remain strong, Standard Chartered Plc said this
month.  Mongolia Copper  “There’s no doubt the pullback in the equity markets and
the continuing escalation in  capital costs  is firmly balancing
that equation in favor of buy versus build,” said  James Bruce ,
who helps manage $3.5 billion at Perpetual Ltd., including
Minara and Coal & Allied shares, in Sydney. Ivanhoe Mines Ltd.
may be a target, he said.  London-based Rio this week said it paid C$529.5 million to
increase its holding to 48.5 percent in Ivanhoe, which is
developing the Oyu Tolgoi copper project in Mongolia. It can
lift that to 49 percent by Jan. 18, 2012. The first stage of the
project is budgeted at $4.5 billion, Ivanhoe said this month.
It’s trading 31 percent below its February high.  Ivanhoe doesn’t comment on market speculation, the company
said in an e-mailed statement. Bruce Tobin, a Melbourne-based
spokesman for Rio, wasn’t available for comment.  Noble, Gloucester  Australian coal producers, New Hope Corp. Ltd. which is 60
percent owned by Washington H. Soul Pattinson & Co., and
 Gloucester Coal Ltd. (GCL) , in which  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL)  holds a 63
percent stake, may be targets, according to Patersons Securities
Ltd. New Hope chairman Robert Millner, who also chairs
Washington H. Soul Pattinson & Co., declined to comment.  “There may be more deals like this because it’s less risky
to mop up minorities,”  Andrew Harrington , a resources analyst
at Patersons in Sydney, said by phone.  Brad Smolar, of Smolar Ltd., an outside spokesman for Noble
Group Ltd., couldn’t be reached on his mobile phone.  Rio has a preference for small to medium-sized acquisitions
and developing its own projects, Chief Executive Officer Tom Albanese said in May. He lifted Rio’s stake in Extract Resources
to 14.2 percent in February.  Rio and partner Mitsubishi, which own stakes of 75.7
percent and 10.2 percent respectively in Coal & Allied, made an
initial offer this month at a 34 percent premium, valuing the
target at A$10.6 billion. They raised it today by 2.5 percent,
winning acceptance from Coal & Allied’s board. The offer came
after a 30 percent slump in Coal & Allied’s share price from a
January high.  Northern Dynasty Minerals Ltd. (NDM) , developing the Pebble
copper mine in  Alaska , may also be a target for Rio, Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc said in May. Pebble may be the world’s
largest undeveloped copper deposit, RBS said. Rio owns 19
percent through its affiliate QIT-Fer Et Titane Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  