-- 
Glencore CEO Glasenberg Set to Reap $163 Million in 2011 Dividend Payouts

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-08-25T08:49:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/glencore-ceo-glasenberg-set-to-reap-163-million-2011-dividend.html
Ivan Glasenberg, chief executive
officer and largest holder of Glencore International Plc, is set
to reap a dividend of about $163 million for 2011 amid a 24
percent slump in the stock from its May initial public offering.  The world’s biggest listed commodities trader will make a
first interim payout of 5 cents a share, it said in a statement
today. That implies a full-year distribution of about 15 cents
based on a  company policy  of the first-half dividend comprising
one-third of the 12-month payment. Glasenberg, 54, owns 15.7
percent of the Baar, Switzerland-based company, .  Glencore shares have plunged since the sale of $10 billion
in stock preceded a global equity sell-off. The IPO, the biggest
in the world this year, attracted 12 cornerstone investors
including BlackRock Inc. and  Abu Dhabi ’s Aabar Investments PJSC.
Glasenberg’s holding in the company is worth about $7 billion at
current prices.  “Since the IPO it is upsetting that the market has come
down, that investors who supported us during the IPO do see
their investments under water,” Glasenberg told reporters today
on a conference call from  London . “That is not good for us,
it’s not good for them. However, we can not control markets.”  The company will distribute $346 million in dividends for
the first half, which will be paid on Sept. 30, it said.  The stock advanced for a fourth day today, gaining 3.7
percent to 404 pence in London. The company sold shares in the
May IPO at 530 pence apiece. Glencore today reported a 57
percent increase in first-half net income before other
significant items to $2.45 billion from a year earlier.  “There will be a few battered and bruised IPO
investors,”  Greg Smith , managing director of Fat Prophets,
said in an interview with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” in London. “The float was
effectively, looking back, near the top of the market and many
will be nursing of paper losses of 20 percent or more.” The
dividend will offer “some compensation,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  