-- 
Global Quartet Needs to Prevent Egyptian-Israeli Conflict: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-25T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/global-quartet-needs-to-prevent-egyptian-israeli-conflict-view.html
Since the March 1979  Egyptian-
Israeli peace treaty , a stable relationship with  Egypt  has been
a pillar of Israel’s security doctrine and the West’s regional
strategy. That pillar now appears shaky.  The current crisis began on Aug. 18 when about 20
Palestinian terrorists crossed into Egypt’s  Sinai Peninsula  from
the  Gaza Strip , and traveled south along the border with Israel.
After entering the country, they killed eight Israelis. The
Israeli military chased the attackers into Egypt, where three
local police officers died in the crossfire.  Under former President  Hosni Mubarak , Egypt would probably
have protested privately, and not allowed the incident to
escalate. Mubarak shared Israel’s concern over Islamic
extremism, distrust of the Palestinian leadership and antipathy
toward  Iran . He also understood that the  U.S. Congress  viewed
stable relations with Israel as necessary to keeping economic
and military aid flowing. His regime worked with Israel to
weaken the Hamas government in the Gaza Strip, which lies
between the two countries; played a helpful role in the Israeli-
Palestinian peace process; and sought to diminish Iranian
influence in the region. But this is a new Egypt, and Israel has
to get used to it.  Mubarak’s fall has forced Israel to begin thinking of the
implications of a less cooperative government in Cairo. The
Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, which currently rules the
country, wants to return to its barracks as quickly as possible
while retaining its privileged position in Egyptian society. To
do so, it must get demonstrators off the streets, restore
stability, and hold credible elections as soon as possible. So,
for the first time in Egypt’s recent history, the government
must take public opinion into account to avoid protests.  Although the demonstrations that took down the president
were virtually free of anti-Israeli signs or slogans, Egypt’s
Mubarak-era cooperation with Israel was intensely unpopular. For
many Egyptians, the deaths of the three policemen required a
strong response from their government, if only to differentiate
it from the Mubarak regime. As  Amre Moussa , a former Egyptian
foreign minister and likely presidential candidate wrote on his
Twitter account, “Israel has to realize that the days in which
our sons are killed without an appropriate and strong reaction
are forever gone.”  But both sides have an interest in preventing their
relationship from unraveling. So after a few tense days, both
have tried to defuse the crisis. On Aug. 20, Israeli Defense
Minister  Ehud Barak  issued a statement expressing “regret.” When
the Egyptian Cabinet said that wasn’t sufficient, Israeli
President  Shimon Peres  put out a statement of his own. The
Egyptians have said they will accept Israel’s offer to jointly
investigate the incident and have backed away from a report on
their state television channel that the ambassador to Israel
will be recalled. Most importantly, the Egyptians pressured
Hamas to stop firing rockets into Israel and announced plans to
bring order to the Sinai border region, which Israel fears is
becoming a base for Islamic extremists.  But the probability of another crisis between Egypt and
Israel is high. Each side is suspicious of the other, partly
because it is still relatively easy for Gaza-based terrorists to
enter Israel from Sinai. Hamas and its Iranian patrons would
like nothing more than to precipitate an Israeli-Egyptian
confrontation that would embarrass moderates in the region and
end any hope of reviving the Israeli-Palestinian  peace process .  The “Quartet” -- the U.S., the  European Union ,  Russia  and
the  United Nations  -- has taken the lead on peace-process issues
on behalf of the international community. If terrorists’
infiltrating Israel from Sinai is the most likely cause of
another confrontation, the Quartet should act now to help seal
the border.  Israel has begun building a security fence along
its boundary with Egypt that would make it much more difficult
to enter from Sinai, but construction has been slowed by
budgetary constraints. The Quartet should help the Israelis
finish the fence as quickly as possible.  The Israelis also need to be told that they must do more to
accommodate the new reality in Egypt.  An immediate and sincere
Israeli apology might have nipped this crisis in the bud.  The group of four should also encourage the Egyptians to
use part of the financial and military assistance they receive
to regain control of Sinai.  Especially useful would be a jobs
program for Sinai’s indigenous Bedouin tribes and equipment to
help the Egyptian military find and destroy the tunnels that
Hamas has built into Sinai from Gaza. The Quartet should also
bluntly tell the Egyptian military, and its budding political
leadership, that any attempt to court public opinion by
renouncing the peace treaty with  Israel  will lead to an
immediate termination of funding.  We still believe that in the long run, a more democratic
Egypt will benefit Israel, the U.S. and  Europe .  Unfortunately,
governments in the  Middle East  are almost always focused on the
short term. The Quartet can help by acting to prevent the next
Egyptian-Israeli crisis before it starts.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 