-- 
Google, Alabama Immigration, JPMorgan, FDIC, Swiss Accounts: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-08-25T11:22:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/google-alabama-immigration-jp-morgan-fdic-swiss-accounts-compliance.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  agreed to pay $500
million to settle U.S. allegations that advertising for online
Canadian pharmacies on its website allowed illegal imports of
prescription drugs.  Google was aware as early as 2003 that the shipment of
prescriptions to the U.S. from outside the country is illegal,
the Department of Justice said in a  statement  yesterday. The
payment represents revenue that Google generated from the ads
and that Canadian pharmacies reaped from online drug sales to
American consumers, the DOJ said.  “This settlement ensures that Google will reform its
improper advertising practices with regard to these pharmacies
while paying one of the largest financial forfeiture penalties
in history,” Deputy Attorney General  James Cole  said in the
statement.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine, is
grappling with increasing scrutiny from governments around the
world, including an investigation of its business practices by
the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. As part of the settlement,
there will be “a number of compliance and reporting measures,”
the DOJ said, without providing further details.  Google had $29.3 billion in revenue last year, almost
entirely from advertising. The  Mountain View , California-based
company said in May that it had set aside $500 million to
resolve an investigation of its ad business.  “We banned the advertising of prescription drugs in the
U.S. by Canadian pharmacies some time ago,” Google said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday. “However, it’s obvious with
hindsight that we shouldn’t have allowed these ads on Google in
the first place.”  In December 2010, Google joined  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Yahoo!
Inc. and other companies in helping establish a nonprofit
organization to fight illegal Internet pharmacies. Counterfeit
drug sales account for about $75 billion in  global sales , the
National Association of Boards of Pharmacy said at the time.
About 1 percent to 2 percent of prescription medicines in North
America are counterfeit, according to the pharmacy group.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Alabama Immigrant Status Checks May Spark Suits, Judge Says  Alabama’s new immigration law requiring that police
officers check immigrants’ legal status might lead to lawsuits
for unlawful detention, a judge said in a hearing on challenges
to the statute.  “There are a lot of problems with this statute,” U.S.
District Judge Sharon Blackburn in Birmingham,  Alabama , said
yesterday in a hearing on three cases filed by the federal
government, groups including the American Civil Liberties Union
and Christian clergy. “My job is to decide if this is
constitutional.”  The measure, to go into effect Sept. 1, requires police
officers to verify the immigration status of anyone they stop
and suspect may be in the U.S. illegally. Businesses must use a
federal database called E-Verify to determine whether job
applicants are eligible to work. And it’s a crime to rent
housing to illegal immigrants.  The U.S.  Justice Department  and the ACLU argue that federal
law governs the handling of undocumented immigrants. Roman
Catholic, Episcopal and Methodist clergy say the statute makes
it illegal for them to fulfill their mission to feed, clothe and
give communion to undocumented aliens.  Alabama is the fifth U.S. state to enact such legislation.
The three lawsuits are consolidated before Blackburn.  Governor Robert Bentley signed the bill into law in June.  The cases are Hispanic Interest Coalition of Alabama v.
Bentley, 5:11-cv-2484, Parsley v. Bentley, 5:11-cv-2736, and
U.S. v. Bentley, 5:11-cv-2746, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Alabama (Birmingham).  Compliance Action  Switzerland , U.K. Agree to Settlement in Tax-Evasion Dispute  Switzerland and the U.K. completed an agreement to end a
dispute over tax evasion by wealthy Britons holding offshore
accounts with Swiss private banks.  Swiss banks will pay 500 million Swiss francs ($629
million) to the U.K. government to cover the failure by their
clients to disclose undeclared money in the past, Switzerland’s
 Finance Ministry  said yesterday. The banks will later be
reimbursed from taxes paid by their customers.  The accord “respects the protection of bank clients’
privacy, but also ensures the implementation of legitimate tax
claims,” the ministry said in an e-mailed statement from the
Swiss capital, Bern.  The treaty comes after Switzerland agreed in March 2009 to
meet international standards to avoid being blacklisted as a tax
haven by the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development . The settlement may trigger outflows by Britons who
question the value of cross-border accounts as Swiss banking
secrecy crumbles and follows a similar accord with  Germany 
earlier this month.  “The days when it was easy to stash the profits of tax
evasion in Switzerland are over,” U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer George Osborne said in an e-mailed statement. “We
will be as tough on the richest who evade tax as on those who
cheat on benefits.”  Swiss banks will levy a withholding tax of 48 percent on
investment income and 27 percent on capital gains earned by
Britons with offshore accounts, according to yesterday’s
statement. Revenue generated will go to the British Treasury,
while client identities remain secret.  The initialed tax agreement should be signed by both
governments in the next few months and is expected to come into
force in 2013, the Treasury said.  Switzerland is the world’s biggest center for offshore
wealth with about 1.96 trillion francs of assets last year,
according to Boston Consulting Group.  For more, click here.  SEC Wins Civil Judgment Against Fugitive Analyst Deep Shah  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission won a judgment
against Deep Shah, who has been declared a fugitive in the
insider trading case of Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj
Rajaratnam, that includes a civil penalty of $24.6 million.  Shah, an ex-analyst at Moody’s Investors Service Inc., was
charged in November 2009 by  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara and sued by the SEC for allegedly passing along inside
information about acquisitions involving Hilton Hotels Corp. and
Kronos Inc.  The commission sought a default judgment in June against
Shah claiming that he had not responded to its suit. U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff signed the order Aug. 22 and it was
filed Tuesday in federal court in Manhattan.  The judgment says Shah must pay back $8.2 million in
profits gained or losses avoided as a result of the conduct
alleged in the complaint, along with prejudgment interest of
$1.76 million and the civil penalty.  The SEC is “pleased with the decision,” spokesman  John
Nester  said.  Lawyers for the SEC said in court documents filed in March
that the commission had located Shah in  Mumbai , where a bailiff
found Shah’s residence in the Juhu neighborhood of the city and
left an amended complaint on March 22, 2010.  Shah is accused of tipping  Roomy Khan , a former Intel Corp.
product-marketing engineer, in 2007 to material nonpublic
information about pending takeover bids for Hilton Hotels Corp.
and Kronos Inc. Khan then passed on the tips to Rajaratnam,
prosecutors said; she pleaded guilty in 2009.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Galleon
Management LP, 09-cr-8811, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Chicago  Hedge Fund Principal Pleads Guilty to Wire Fraud  Philip J. Baker, principal of the collapsed Chicago hedge
fund Lake Shore Asset Management Ltd., yesterday pleaded guilty
to one count of wire fraud for his role in an alleged $292
million global scheme.  Indicted in absentia in February 2009 for his role in the
scheme that ensnared about 900 investors, Baker had faced 27
criminal counts including 17 for wire fraud and two for
commodities fraud, as well one count of embezzlement of
commodity pool funds. He pleaded not guilty last year after
being extradited from Hamburg.  Baker is also liable for $154 million in restitution, U.S.
District Judge John W. Darrah in Chicago said. Sentencing is set
for Nov. 17.  “The government will recommend the maximum term of 20
years in prison when Baker is sentenced,” Chicago U.S. Attorney
Patrick Fitzgerald said in an e-mailed statement after the plea
was entered. A trial had been scheduled for Sept. 19.  Baker’s lawyer, Kurt Stitcher of Baker & Daniels LLP,
declined to comment after the hearing.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Baker, 1:09-cr-00175, and the
civil case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v. Lake
Shore Asset Management Ltd., 1:07-cv-03598, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  For more, click here.  Courts  CIFG Opposes BofA’s Mortgage-Bond Accord With Investors  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s proposed $8.5 billion mortgage-bond
settlement, which has drawn criticism from a group of investors
and two states, is opposed by bond insurance company CIFG
Assurance North America Inc.  The accord requires approval from a New York state judge,
and CIFG filed a “notice of intention to appear and object” to
the agreement yesterday in New York State Supreme Court.  The proposed settlement calls for Bank of America to pay
$8.5 billion to resolve claims from investors in Countrywide
Financial Corp. mortgage bonds. Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America acquired Countrywide in 2008.  Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment.  The case is In the matter of Bank of New York Mellon,
651786/2011, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  New Suits  JPMorgan Sues Homebuilder Over Share of $381.7 Million Loan  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , leader of a group of lenders owed
$381.7 million on a bankrupt homebuilding project in Henderson,
 Nevada , sued  Meritage Homes Corp. (MTH)  to recover the builder’s share
of a guarantee.  JPMorgan and other lenders agreed in 2004 to advance as
much as $535 million to builders including Meritage and  Beazer
Homes USA Inc. (BZH) , taking repayment guarantees from each builder,
according to a complaint filed Aug. 22 in Las Vegas. The share
of Meritage for the loans advanced to date is $13.3 million,
JPMorgan said in the filing as it asked a judge to compel
payment.  “JPMorgan has made due demand under the repayment
guaranty, and the defendants have failed and refused to pay
their liabilities,” the bank said.  South Edge LLC, which is owned by the builders, is in
bankruptcy court in Nevada. The bankruptcy triggered the
repayment guarantee, JPMorgan said.  Meritage sued the bank Aug. 19 in state court in Ohio,
where the JPMorgan unit that is the trustee for the lenders is
based. Meritage asked a judge to rule the homebuilder doesn’t
have any obligations to the lenders and seeks $8 million in
damages.  Meritage claims that it tried to pay the lenders in April
2008 but JPMorgan refused to accept the payment.  Meritage’s claim for damages is based on losses related to
the drop in value of the property and legal fees, company Chief
Financial Officer Larry W. Seay said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  The case is JPMorgan v. Meritage Homes, 11-cv-01364, U.S.
District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  FDIC Sues Ex-First National Bank of Arizona CEO Over Losses  Ex-First National Bank of Arizona Chief Executive Officer
Gary A. Dorris and former director Philip A. Lamb “sacrificed
safety” and promoted risky nontraditional mortgage loans that
ultimately caused the bank’s failure, the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. said in a lawsuit.  Dorris and Lamb were negligent in exercising their duties,
given the obvious risks of the bank’s business model, the agency
said yesterday in a complaint in federal court in Phoenix.  “Although these risky loans returned record profits in the
near term, they produced losses once the real estate market
softened, and ultimately caused the bank’s failure,” the agency
said in the complaint, which seeks to recover more than $193
million in damages.  As of Aug. 4, the FDIC has authorized lawsuits against 266
officers and directors in an effort to recoup more than $6.8
billion in losses stemming from the credit crisis, the agency
said on its Web site. An additional 172 residential malpractice
and mortgage fraud lawsuits are pending, consisting of lawsuits
filed and inherited, the agency said. More than 350 lenders have
failed since the start of 2008.  A woman who answered the phone at Dorris’s home in
Scottsdale, Arizona, said he was unavailable. Lamb has no public
phone listing and couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  The case is Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. v. Dorris,
2:11-cv-01652, U.S. District Court, District of Arizona
(Phoenix).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  