-- 
Google, La Martiniere End Legal Dispute on Scanning That Started in 2006

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-08-25T12:10:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/google-la-martiniere-agree-on-scanning-of-protected-works.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
largest search engine, settled a legal dispute with French
publisher La Martiniere Groupe and agreed on terms allowing it
to scan out-of-print works that are still copyright-protected.  The deal will permit La Martiniere to sell books on
Google’s Ebooks platform and split revenue from those sales
between the two companies,  Mountain View , California-based
Google said today in a statement.  The agreement “allows us to move forward in a constructive
way for the benefit of French writers and readers,” Philippe
Colombet, director of  Google Books  in  France , said in the
statement.  Google is working to improve its relationship with French
industry groups and regulators after disputes over privacy and
access to copyrighted content. Chief Executive Officer  Eric Schmidt  promised to increase Google’s investment in France after
meeting with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  last year.  “France is a country which has required special
attention,” Colombet said today on a conference call about the
agreement. He declined to detail the financial terms of the
deal, saying just that “a majority” of revenue would go to the
rights holder as has been the case in similar accords.  Ruling in 2009  Today’s agreement resolves a dispute that Paris-based  La
Martiniere  initiated in 2006. Google was ordered by a civil
court in the city in 2009 to pay the French publisher’s Editions
du Seuil unit 300,000 euros ($433,000) and stop scanning French
works for its digital library project.  Since that ruling, Google has reached agreements with other
groups in France such as the country’s main music-rights
collection agency, SACEM, which arranged to compensate artists
whose works appear on Google’s YouTube site, and the Hachette
Livre unit of  Lagardere SCA (MMB) , the country’s biggest publisher.  The settlement announced today doesn’t affect Google’s
appeal of the 2009 ruling that pertained to the Syndicat
National de l’Edition publishing trade group, which had joined
La Martiniere’s case, or to a lawsuit brought in May by three
publishing houses that claimed Google scanned almost 10,000
copyright-protected works without permission, Colombet said.  Google is working to end the SNE dispute and to reach
similar accords with other French publishers, Colombet said. The
May lawsuit “disrupted discussions underway,” he said.  Spokeswomen at the publishers weren’t immediately available
to comment when contacted by phone.  A U.S. judge gave more time last month to Google and a
group of publishers and authors to negotiate a settlement of a
lawsuit over the search-engine company’s digital reproduction of
books. That dispute dates back to 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  