-- 
Greek Malaise Means Gain for Bulgaria as Firms Seek Refuge

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-08-26T06:26:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/greek-refugees-feast-on-bulgarian-tax-savings.html
Bulgaria  is the  European Union’s 
poorest country. For Iosif Komninakidis, it is a haven from the
debt crisis in his native Greece that has cost his jeans factory
30 percent of its business.  Staff Jeans & Co.’s Intex has a sewing plant in Rakovski,
Bulgaria, about 180 kilometers (111 miles) north of the border.
It is one of more than 2,000 Greek companies operating in the
former communist country, 40 percent of whom were registered
this year, the  National Revenue Agency  in Sofia said.  “The Bulgarian operation costs much less than it would
cost in Greece” because of lower taxes and wages, said
Komninakidis, who is Intex’s chief executive officer. “Tax laws
in Bulgaria are much simpler, clearer and more predictable.”  Bulgaria is attracting companies from Coca-Cola Hellenic
Bottling Co. SA to  Hellenic Petroleum SA (ELPE)  as Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou ’s is cutting spending and raising taxes,
deepening a recession at home. Greece passed a record 78
billion-euro ($112.6 billion) austerity package to secure a
second bailout from its international creditors as it struggles
to cut the biggest debt burden in the euro region’s history.  Greece’s government debt may peak at 161 percent of gross
domestic product next year and GDP may shrink more than 3.8
percent this year, the third year of contraction, after a 4.4
percent drop last year, according to the European Commission.  Unemployment was at a record 15.9 percent in the first
quarter, while the jobless rate in the border area of eastern
Macedonia and Thrace soared to 20.2 percent in May.  Loss of Confidence  Companies in  Greece  have little prospects to expand their
business and sales after consumers lost confidence in an exit
from the crisis, the Athens-based Foundation for Economic &
Industrial Research said on Aug. 4. Eighty-percent of people in
the foundation’s survey forecast a worsening of their personal
financial situation in the next year, up from 76 percent in
June, the survey showed.  The Bulgarian economy has a lot going for it. The corporate
and personal income tax rates are at 10 percent, the lowest in
the EU. Government debt is 18 percent of gross domestic product
this year, the third lowest in the 27-nation bloc after Estonia
and Luxembourg, compared with 158 percent for Greece, according
to the European Commission.  Bulgaria, the EU’s poorest country as measured by per-
capita GDP, ranks 51st among 183 economies on the  Ease of Doing
Business  list compiled by the  World Bank  and the International
Finance Corp., the same as last year. Greece slipped 12 places
to 109th.  ‘Overvalued’ Euro  “Greece is uncompetitive within the euro zone and it’s
evident that Greek companies are moving into Bulgaria to escape
that overvalued currency and to seek lower costs,” said  Stuart Thomson , a  fund manager  at Glasgow-based Ignis Asset Management,
which oversees $120 billion.  Papandreou is planning levies ranging from 1 percent to 5
percent on wages, higher taxes on restaurants and bars, heating-
oil taxes and a lower tax-free threshold on the income tax to
help shrink the  budget deficit . Greece’s ASE Index plunged 34
percent this year, the third-worst performance in the world
behind the Cypriot and Egyptian stock markets, as Bulgaria’s
Sofix rose 1.3 percent.  Greeks in Bulgaria  Greek companies that operate in Bulgaria also include
Fourlis Holdings SA, which holds the IKEA franchise for the
region, and builders  Ellaktor SA (ELLAKTOR)  and Terna SA. Jumbo SA,
Greece’s biggest toy retailer, opened four stores in Bulgaria.
About 800 Greek companies registered in Bulgaria this year,
according to the National Revenue Agency, most of them in
Blagoevgrad, 70 kilometers from the Greek border.  “Most of the companies registered in Bulgaria this year
did that to take advantage of lower taxes or just to buy a
cheaper car or real estate,” said Panagiotis Koutsikos,
chairman of the Athens-based Greek-Bulgarian Chamber of
Commerce.  Greece’s investment in Bulgaria amounted to 7.63 billion
euros between 2000 and 2009, about 5 percent of Greece’s total
investment abroad for the nine years, according to Eurostat.
Greece invested 160 million euros in Bulgaria in 2010, according
to the central bank in the capital Sofia.  Bulgaria remains at risk because the euro region’s
financial instability may scuttle its economic recovery,
analysts say. Almost a third of the country’s banks are owned by
Greek parents such as  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR)  and Alpha Bank SA.  Bulgarian growth slowed to 1.9 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier from 3.4 percent in the previous
three months. The government’s estimate for this year is for
growth of 3.6 percent and 4.1 percent for 2012.  Eastern Europe at Risk  Net foreign investment plummeted in the first half to 8
million euros from 532 million euros a year earlier as the
Bulgarian units of international companies repaid loans to their
parent companies abroad, according to the central bank.  Eastern Europe remains at “serious risk” from the
financial instability in the euro region and the contagion risk
is the highest in Greece’s Balkan neighbors, such as Bulgaria,
the EBRD said in a report on July 22.  Intex’s Komniakidis, who employs 1,000 people at five
Bulgarian plans, says it’s a risk worth taking while Staff Jeans
is struggling to cope with 2 million euros of unpaid orders by
bankrupt Greek clients.  “We try to keep afloat by cutting costs here,”
Komniakidis said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  