-- 
Libya Contact Group Says Qaddafi Must Surrender Immediately

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-08-25T16:58:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/libya-contact-group-says-qaddafi-must-surrender-immediately-1-.html
The  Libya  contact group, which
includes the U.S., European and Arab nations, said Muammar Qaddafi must surrender “immediately” to prevent more bloodshed
and damage to the country’s infrastructure.  Representatives from 28 countries and seven international
organizations including the  United Nations , the European Union
and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization agreed to press for a
UN Security Council resolution to unfreeze Libyan assets in “an
expedited manner” to provide the National Transitional Council
with financial support, the contact group said in a statement
after meetings in Istanbul today.  The NTC has “inclusive and broad-based” participation
from Libyan society and it should form an interim government
that will establish a national congress, paving the way for a
constitutional democracy and “free, fair and transparent”
elections, the contact group said. The participants said they
were committed to Libya’s sovereignty and territorial integrity
as a unified and independent state.  “The military victories of the National Transitional
Council against the Qaddafi forces in Tripoli have brought the
Libyan people closer to the noble cause that they have been
fighting for: freedom, justice, dignity and democracy,” Turkish
Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said today in opening remarks
to the gathering. “The robust and unequivocal stance of the
international community has been a key factor contributing to
the progress.”  NATO operations are expected to continue until the
objectives outlined in UN Security Council resolutions 1970 and
1973 are realized, according to the contact group statement. The
representatives also said they supported a Sept. 1 summit of
“high-level” officials in Paris to discuss Libya’s future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Istanbul at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 