-- 
Tripoli Airport Attacked by Qaddafi Forces

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-08-26T06:51:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/libyan-rebels-press-toward-qaddafi-s-hometown-of-sirte-as-reward-offered.html
Forces loyal to Libyan President
 Muammar Qaddafi  attacked targets at the airport in the capital
as the Libyan leader urged his supporters to “cleanse Tripoli
of the rats.”  At least four planes, including an  Airbus A330 , were
destroyed by rocket fire,  Al Arabiya  television reported today.
Rebel forces claimed the capture of strategic positions around
the city, including a military warehouse where tanks used by the
embattled regime were stored, images on Al Arabiya showed.  “As the Libyan regime and its forces begin to melt away
you have residual groups who are going to continue to fight,”
 Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based
Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis, said by
phone yesterday. “They will start to target airports, seaports,
oil and gas infrastructure and anything that represents the
authority of the new government.”  Since entering Tripoli this week, after breaking a
stalemate in a six-month effort backed by airstrikes from the
 North Atlantic Treaty Organization , rebel leaders are taking
steps to begin a transition. The rebel National Transitional
Council officially transferred its headquarters from Benghazi in
the east to Tripoli on Aug. 24, council Prime Minister Mahmoud Jibril said yesterday during a visit to  Italy .  Hunting Qaddafi  Rebel fighters surrounded a complex in the capital where
they suspected Qaddafi was hiding, council defense spokesman
Colonel Ahmed Bani, said by phone yesterday. About 1,000 rebels
streamed into the Abu Salim neighborhood, next to Qaddafi’s
captured Bab Al Aziziya compound. With no evidence of Qaddafi,
Bani acknowledged that the Libyan leader’s presence there
“could be a rumor.”  Rebel leaders worked to retrieve assets frozen by the
 United Nations  and other governments in an effort to obtain
funding for food, and humanitarian and medical needs,
transitional council Chairman Mustafa Abdel Jalil said at a
press conference in Benghazi yesterday.  The UN Security Council gave the U.S. permission to release
$1.5 billion in frozen Libyan government assets to the
transitional council. About $30 billion in Libyan assets are
held in the U.S., which has been beyond the reach of the rebels.  Italy has freed up 350 million euros ($505 million) in
Libyan assets, Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said yesterday.
 Germany , which holds about 7.3 billion euros ($10.5 billion) of
Libyan assets, is providing a loan of $140 million to the
transitional council as an advance.  Clinton’s Call  “We call on Qaddafi, his family, and his supporters to
bring an end to their continuing violence for the sake of the
Libyan people and Libya’s future,”  U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said in a statement from  Washington  yesterday.  Amid the fighting in parts of Tripoli, medical staff were
unable to reach hospitals to treat the injured, though areas of
the city secured by the opposition are calm and have water and
electricity, said Robin Waudo of the  International Committee of
the Red Cross  in a telephone interview from the capital
yesterday. Since fighting began in  Libya , the number of people
killed has “exceeded 20,000,” Abdel Jalil said yesterday.  Qaddafi’s audio message, issued from hiding while rebels
were hunting him with intelligence help from NATO, called on
Muslim clerics to incite Libyans for “jihad” against his
enemies. The audiotape was broadcast by Syria-based Al Oruba TV.  Push Toward Sirte  To the east of the capital, rebel fighters pushed toward
Qaddafi’s hometown of Sirte. They were negotiating with tribal
leaders to enter the city without violence, Bani said from
Benghazi, while fighting continued yesterday in the southern
city of Sabha between Qaddafi loyalists and the rebels.  NATO warplanes carried out raids during the night near
Tripoli and Sirte, the alliance said in a statement.  NATO special forces are now based in Misrata, from where
they call in airstrikes and advise opposition fighters, a rebel
officer from the city said yesterday.  Two teams, one British and one French, have been
controlling alliance warplanes in attacking government targets
around the city for several weeks, said Mohammed Subka, a
communications specialist in the Al Watum, or My Home, brigade.  “Rebel fighters are doing the bulk of the work,” said
Karasik. “No one has thought through yet the aftermath of
taking Tripoli so this next week will be very telling as far as
their ability to hold on to their gains.”  Oil Exports Halted  The conflict has all but halted oil exports from Libya,
which has the largest proven reserves of any African country.
Output dropped to 100,000 barrels a day in July, down from the
1.6 million barrels pumped before the uprising started.  Crude oil for October delivery  slipped 25 cents to settle
at $85.05 a barrel at 9:29 a.m. Dubai time. Brent oil for
October settlement rose 2 cents to $110.64 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Rome-based  Eni SpA (ENI)  will begin supplying the transitional
council with gasoline and diesel fuel in the coming days that
will eventually be paid for with crude oil, Chief Executive
Officer  Paolo Scaroni  said yesterday after meeting Jibril. Eni,
the biggest foreign investor in Libya, saw most of its
production halted by the conflict.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 