-- 
ICBC Reports $17 Billion First-Half Profit, Beats Estimates on China Loans

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-08-25T09:29:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/icbc-world-s-biggest-bank-says-first-half-profit-climbed-29-to-record.html
Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China (1398)  Ltd., the world’s largest lender by market value, said
first-half profit jumped 29 percent to a record on higher loans
and fees in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Net income rose to 109.5 billion yuan ($17 billion), or
0.31 yuan a share, from 84.6 billion yuan, or 0.25 yuan, a year
earlier, the lender said in a  Hong Kong  stock exchange filing
today. That was in line with the 106 billion yuan median
estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Profit at
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288)  climbed 45 percent.  ICBC and Agricultural Bank tapped demand for loans, credit
cards and insurance in a nation forecast to grow at twice the
pace of the global economy. ICBC, headed for its eighth annual
record profit, set aside more funds for bad loans after the
stock posted its worst quarter in 2 1/2 years on concern
property loans and local government debt may sour.  “The banks are a proxy for the economy,” Stanley Li, an
analyst at Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd., said by telephone.
“Credit quality concerns investors the most as banks are
cyclical stocks” that are vulnerable to an economic slowdown,
Li said.  Cut Growth Estimates  Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley cut estimates for
 China ’s economic growth last week as Europe’s debt crisis and an
economic slowdown in the U.S. threaten demand for exports.
Morgan Stanley reduced its forecast for next year to 8.7 percent
while Deutsche Bank trimmed it to 8.3 percent.  Net income at Agricultural Bank, the country’s third-
largest lender, rose to 66.7 billion yuan in the first six
months from 45.8 billion yuan a year earlier, the Beijing-based
company said in a Hong Kong stock exchange statement today.
Profit was in line with the 65.8 billion yuan median estimate of
nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Shares of Agricultural Bank rose 0.3 percent to close at
HK$3.83 in Hong Kong trading before the results were announced
today, trimming its decline this year to less than 2 percent.
ICBC’s Hong Kong-listed shares rose 1.9 percent to close at
HK$4.85. The stock has lost 16 percent since the end of 2010.  Beijing-based ICBC, set to secure its position as the
world’s most profitable bank for a fourth year, reported first-
half profit that was 86 percent more than that of HSBC Holdings
Plc,  Europe ’s largest bank, and 56 percent more than that of
JPMorgan Chase & Co., the most profitable U.S. bank.  ‘Signs of Worsening’  ICBC, led by Chairman Jiang Jianqing, set aside 16.8
billion yuan as provisions against potential bad debts,
increasing the coverage ratio to 261.14 percent of non-
performing loans. Bad loans fell to 0.95 percent of the total.  China’s first audit of local government debt found
liabilities of $1.7 trillion at the end of last year and warned
of repayment risks. About 25 percent of the debt will mature
this year while 17 percent is scheduled to be repaid by the end
of 2012, the National Audit Office said on June 27.  “The bad-debt ratio will climb as we are entering the peak
time that local government loans will mature,” said Li. “We
may see more obvious signs of worsening next year.”  As much as 30 percent of the outstanding credit to local
governments may sour and become the biggest source of bad debts
for banks,  Standard & Poor’s  has estimated.  Accelerate Repayments  China’s banking regulator has asked lenders to increase
capital buffers and accelerate loan collection schedules for
local government debt as it seeks to avert a banking crisis
following the record $2.7 trillion credit boom that helped pull
the economy through the global financial crisis.  The banks regulator told lenders they haven’t set aside
sufficient funds to cover losses on local government loans or
done enough to revise loan agreements and speed up repayments, a
person with knowledge of the matter said in July.  The nation’s lenders increased their provision coverage
ratio for bad loans to 249 percent last quarter from 124 percent
for the three months ended March 2009, China Banking Regulatory
Commission data showed.  Agricultural Bank, led by Chairman  Xiang Junbo , had the
highest non-performing loan ratio among the five biggest lenders
in China. The company’s bad debts accounted for 1.67 percent of
total loans, compared with ICBC’s 0.95 percent and Bank of China
Ltd.’s 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  