-- 
Canada Stocks Rise as Materials Producers Gain With Gold, Corn

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-08-26T21:17:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/migao-royal-bank-of-canada-may-move-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks rose, extending a
weekly gain, as producers of precious metals and fertilizers
advanced after corn and gold futures surged.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s largest
fertilizer producer by market value, increased 3.9 percent as
corn rallied on signs dry weather is reducing U.S. yields.
Goldcorp Inc., the world’s second-largest gold producer by
market value, climbed 2 percent as the metal rallied 1.8
percent.  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) ,  Canada ’s second-
largest energy company by market value, rose 1.3 percent as
natural gas futures gained.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index climbed 43.2
points, or 0.4 percent, to 12,327.51, completing a weekly
increase of 2.7 percent, after U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  indicated the economy isn’t deteriorating fast
enough to warrant any immediate stimulus. He said the central
bank still has tools to stimulate the economy without signaling
he will use them.  “The market is happy because the Fed is on the case,”
Marcus Xu, director of equity investments at Genus Capital
Management in  Vancouver , said in a telephone interview. The firm
oversees C$1.7 billion ($1.7 billion). “They said, ‘We have a
lot of other things we can do.’”  The S&P/TSX has lost 4.8 percent this month, less than half
as much as the MSCI World Index, as its gold stocks have rallied
11 percent while its energy companies have plunged 11 percent.
Gold climbed to a record and crude oil sank to a 2011 low
earlier this month as economic data signaled a slowing U.S.
recovery.  Hot Summer  Fertilizer producers advanced as corn futures surged to the
highest since June 9. The hottest summer since 1955 in Iowa and
 Illinois  has hurt crops, and the government may have to cut its
harvest forecasts, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 25
analysts who traveled through seven states this week on a crop
tour organized by the Professional Farmers of America. The
group’s estimate for the harvest, based on the tour’s findings,
was 3.3 percent below the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s
forecast.  Potash Corp. increased 3.9 percent to C$56.15.  Agrium Inc. (AGU) ,
a fertilizer producer and farm retailer, climbed 3 percent to
C$81.93.  Thirty-one of 37 S&P/TSX gold stocks rose after Bernanke’s
remarks to a forum in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . Goldcorp gained 1.8
percent to C$50.98.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest
producer, advanced 1.4 percent to C$50.06. China Gold
International Resources Corp. jumped for a second day after
reporting a resources increase, surging 6.3 percent to C$4.70.  Energy Producers  Natural gas futures climbed for a second day as
meteorologists forecast hotter weather for much of the U.S.
Canadian Natural rose 1.3 percent to C$34.84.  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , an oil
and gas producer with operations on five continents, gained 1.7
percent to C$19.96.  Trilogy Energy Corp. (TET) , a western Canadian natural gas and
oil producer, soared 9.9 percent to C$26.09 on the last day of
trading when buyers are entitled to its next quarterly dividend.
A parcel of land near Trilogy’s Kaybob operations sold for a
record price Aug. 24, the Calgary Herald  reported .  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , Canada’s largest base-metals and coal
producer, rose 3 percent to C$40.61 as copper futures gained for
a fourth day.  Taseko Mines Ltd. (TKO) , which mines copper in British Columbia,
surged 17 percent, the most since January, to C$3.79 after
saying the Canadian Environmental Assessment Agency has accepted
its project description for its New Prosperity project. The
shares had closed at the lowest since November 2009 yesterday.  Cameco Offer  Hathor Exploration Ltd. (HAT) , which explores for uranium in
Saskatchewan, soared 45 percent, the most since March 2008, to
C$3.88 after  Cameco Corp. (CCO)  offered to buy the company for C$3.75
a share. Cameco slipped 0.7 percent to C$21.87.  Canada’s seven largest banks fell after  Royal Bank of
Canada (RY) , the biggest, reported third-quarter earnings that
trailed the average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey,
excluding certain items.  Royal Bank, Canada’s largest company by market value,
dropped 3.5 percent, the most since December, to C$49 after
missing its average analyst profit estimate for the sixth time
in the last seven quarters.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , Royal Bank’s
biggest domestic rival, declined 1.1 percent to C$73.90.  Bank of
Nova Scotia (BNS) , the third-largest lender by assets, lost 1.6
percent to C$51.34.  Trading in  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the forestry company fighting
a short seller’s assertions of financial manipulation, was
halted today by the Ontario Securities Commission. The regulator
said Sino-Forest and some of its officers and directors “appear
to have misrepresented some of its revenue and/or exaggerated
some of its timber holdings.” U.S. shares of Sino-Forest
plunged a record 72 percent to $1.38.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff at 
 Mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 Nbaker7@bloomberg.net  