-- 
Tiger Woods Will Play in Golf’s Presidents Cup as Pick of Captain Couples

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-08-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/tiger-woods-will-play-presidents-cup-as-pick-of-captain-couples-ap-says.html
Tiger Woods will be one of  Fred Couples ’s captain’s picks for the  Presidents Cup , even after an
injury-shortened season that’s seen him register one top-five
finish and slump to 36th in the world rankings.  Couples, who originally was set to announce his two picks
Sept. 26, said Woods will be among the 12 U.S. golfers to face
an international team at Royal  Melbourne  Golf Club from Nov.
17-20.  “I told him that he’s going to be on the team,” Couples
said at a news conference yesterday at the Boeing Classic on the
Champions Tour in Snoqualmie,  Washington . “There’s no reason
for me to wait till Sept. 26 to pick Tiger. He’s the best player
in the world forever.”  Ten players qualify for the squad based on points earned in
U.S.  PGA Tour  events since the 2009 Barclays tournament and two
are captain’s picks. Woods is  28th in the rankings  for the U.S.
Presidents Cup team and Couples said last week that he would
need to play more tournaments to be included. In the 2009
edition, Woods led the triumphant U.S. team, winning all five of
his matches.  Woods, 35, missed the cut for weekend play at this month’s
U.S.  PGA Championship , the final major tournament of the year,
and failed to qualify for the U.S. PGA Tour’s playoffs, which
began yesterday.  The 71-time winner on the PGA Tour missed almost four
months this season with Achilles tendon and knee injuries and
has failed to win since November 2009. The 14-time major
champion’s best finish in eight tournaments this year was a tie
for fourth at April’s  Masters Tournament .  Not Playing Well  “Is he playing well right now? No,” Couples said. “He
almost won Augusta three months, four months ago, so you don’t
do that by playing poor golf.”  Woods withdrew injured from the  Players Championship  in
May, missed the U.S. and British Opens and finished tied for
37th in his return at the Bridgestone Invitational this month
before recording his worst opening-round score in 62 major
appearances at the PGA Championship.  Woods is scheduled to play in Notah Begay III’s Foundation
Challenge on Aug. 31 and four days ago said on his website that
he may add a tournament from the PGA Tour’s Fall Series, which
begins Sept. 29 with the Justin Timberlake Shriners Hospitals
for Children Open in  Las Vegas .  The last of the four tournaments in the  series  is the Oct.
20-23 Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals Classic in Lake Buena
Vista, near Woods’s Florida base.  Woods will play the Australian Open from Nov. 10-13, his
first visit to Sydney in 15 years, when he tied for fifth at the
1996 Australian Open.  Woods won the Australian Masters in Melbourne in 2009, his
last title anywhere. The victory came days before a car accident
outside of his Florida home led to an admission of marital
infidelity and his divorce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 