-- 
Cook Aiming to Continue for ‘Visionary and Creative Genius’

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 
2011-10-06T14:43:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/tim-cook-aims-to-supply-jobs-s-gravitational-force-in-taking-apple-reins.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook  faces the challenge of crafting the company’s strategy
following the death of Steve Jobs, a man he called “a visionary
and creative genius.”  Cook, who became CEO on Aug. 24 after Jobs switched to the
role of chairman, announced his predecessor’s death yesterday in
a message to employees.  “Apple has lost a visionary and creative genius, and the
world has lost an amazing human being,” Cook, 50, said in the
memo. “Those of us who have been fortunate enough to know and
work with Steve have lost a dear friend and an inspiring mentor.
Steve leaves behind a company that only he could have built, and
his spirit will forever be the foundation of Apple.”  The announcement came one day after Cook took the stage to
introduce a new iPhone, marking his first product unveiling
since taking the reins. To maintain Apple’s growth, he will have
to push into more new markets, continue the company’s Asian
expansion and execute a shift to cloud computing.  Apple’s shares rose $5.19, or 1.4 percent, to $383.44 at
10:42 a.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. They had
climbed 17 percent this year before today.  Jobs hired Cook from Compaq Computer Corp. in 1998, and the
deputy soon proved his mettle as an operations expert. Cook
transformed inventory management to enable Apple to ship the
iconic iMac in a rainbow of colors, deviating from the typical
plain beige box. He later was able to orchestrate the speedy
delivery of iPods, iPads and iPhones -- often within 48 hours --
to help forge an army of Apple loyalists.  ‘Not Going to Change’  Cook must now take up the mantle of charting Apple’s
creative vision, something he was less involved with in his
previous job as chief operations officer.  Following Jobs’s retirement as CEO, Cook said to employees
that “Apple is not going to change” and he reiterated that
thought yesterday: “We will honor his memory by dedicating
ourselves to continuing the work he loved so much.”  Cook led the company when Jobs was out during three medical
leaves. Though he’s a counterpoint to Jobs’s more emotional
personality, the men are two sides of the same coin, said Mike
Janes, who used to run Apple’s online store. Both are demanding
leaders with an attention to detail.  “Despite their style differences, their intensity is
basically equal,” Janes, now the CEO of tickets search engine
FanSnap.com, said in an interview earlier this year. “They are
both perfectionists.”  Different Approach  Jobs’s absence was palpable throughout the 90-minute
introduction of the iPhone 4S this week at Apple’s headquarters
in Cupertino,  California .  “This is my first product launch since being named CEO,”
Cook said, the only Jobs reference, if veiled, at the entire
event. “I’m sure you didn’t know that.”  Jobs was renowned for stirring, meticulously rehearsed
pitches. Cook delivered his remarks more slowly and methodically,
and he let other executives do much of the presentation.  “There’s no way to replace Steve Jobs -- and there were
times during the performance that you felt that,” said  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos.  Still, Cook is the right man to carry on the vision,
Munster said.  “Jobs’s final act as CEO was another of his many great
accomplishments,” Munster said yesterday in a report. He
reiterated his endorsement of Apple’s stock. “Cook is capable
of running Apple, but his rare combination of extreme humility
and insatiable motivation make him uniquely suited to continue
Jobs’s work as CEO and carry on his vision with a peerless
executive team.”  Long Hours  Cook is typically found working long hours at the company’s
headquarters or traveling around the world to meet with
suppliers and manufacturers, Janes said. Cook led the company’s
negotiations with  Verizon Wireless  to bring the iPhone to that
carrier in the U.S. this year.  During his 13 years at Apple, Cook has mastered an
expanding list of operational roles, including manufacturing,
distribution, sales and customer service.  “We have great confidence in Tim Cook, who is a partner of
high quality,” Stephane Richard,  CEO  of France Telecom SA, said
in an interview the day Jobs stepped down. Richard’s company
provides carrier service for the iPhone.  Google Threat  While Cook was Jobs’s choice for successor, he hasn’t had
much time to demonstrate whether he can rally the company’s
roughly 50,000 employees as effectively as Jobs, who steered
Apple into industries as varied as mobile phones, music
downloads and retailing.  Cook also faces mounting competition, in part because of
Apple’s foray into new markets.  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android has
emerged as the biggest smartphone operating system, bolstered by
 HTC Corp. (2498) , Samsung Electronics Co. and Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. adopting the software. Google said Aug. 15 it
planned to purchase Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion.  Investors, meanwhile, may be more likely to pressure Cook
to use some of Apple’s cash -- now more than $75 billion,
including long-term holdings -- for a dividend or stock buyback.  “He’s a very competent corporate manager,” said Apple
investor  Peter Sorrentino , a senior portfolio manager at
Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati, which oversees $14.8
billion in assets. “People are going to be looking for that
crack of weakness, and they’ll be looking at him a lot closer
than they look at Steve.”  ICloud Service  In addition to overhauling the company’s supply chain, Cook
also has led the company into new markets. Sales in  China 
reached $3.8 billion in the last reported quarter, up sixfold
from a year ago. The company is looking to fuel more growth with
its new iCloud service, which stores files online.  To maintain its streak of innovations, Cook will have to
lean on a corps of executives. Jonathan Ive oversees a staff of
product designers that is considered among the best in the world.
 Scott Forstall  leads development of Apple’s mobile software. Bob Mansfield runs hardware engineering, and  Peter Oppenheimer  is
chief financial officer. The executive team, which often meets
on Monday mornings to receive sales updates and discuss strategy,
has been together for years.  “The team here has an unparalleled breadth and depth of
talent and a culture of innovation that Steve has driven in the
company,” Cook said in January. “Excellence has become a
habit.”  Companies such as Nike Inc. and International Business
Machines Corp. have thrived without their iconic leaders, said
John Connors, a venture capitalist at Ignition Partners and
former finance chief at Microsoft Corp. He and Cook sit on
Nike’s board, which oversaw the retirement of CEO  Phil Knight .  “The good Lord created one  Steve Jobs , but he only created
one Phil Knight and Nike is still an enormous success,” Connors
said. “I am sure the world will see in the next several years
that Tim is a very uniquely gifted guy and Apple will be wildly
successful under his leadership.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows  in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  