-- 
IMF Delays Ukraine Review to October; Seeks ‘Strong Policies’

-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-08-25T08:59:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/imf-delays-ukraine-review-to-october-seeks-strong-policies-.html
The  International Monetary Fund  has
postponed a visit to Ukraine planned for next week to October
and said it is seeking “strong policies” from the government
before resuming a $15.6 billion bailout program.  “I stressed the importance of strong policies and reforms
to overcome delays,” David Lipton, special adviser to the IMF’s
managing director, said in an e-mailed statement late yesterday
after meeting Ukraine’s Finance Minister Fedir Yaroshenko and
Coal and Energy Minister Yuriy Boyko in Washington.  The IMF has so far released $3.4 billion of the $15.6
billion loan, granted last July, in two tranches. The third, due
in March, was delayed pending a revamp of Ukraine’s pension
system and increases in household energy tariffs to lower the
 budget deficit .  An IMF mission had been due to visit Kiev, the former
Soviet republic’s capital, Aug. 29 to Sept. 9 to review
government policy, according to an Aug. 11 statement. Ukraine’s
Deputy Prime Minister  Serhiy Tigipko  said June 22 that his
country may receive $3 billion from the Washington-based lender
next month.  “Although the Ukrainian parliament approved a pension
reform bill in July, the president has not signed it yet,” said
 Olena Bilan , chief economist at Kiev-based Dragon Capital, in a
note to clients today. “The IMF statement also implies the
sides achieved little progress regarding an increase in
domestic-gas tariffs, which is the other critical condition set
forth by the fund.”  Following the delay,  Ukraine  won’t receive further
disbursements from the IMF before mid-November, Bilan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  