-- 
Impala Platinum Expects 7.6% Output Drop This Year; Profit Beats Estimates

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-08-25T16:15:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/impala-platinum-expects-7-6-output-drop-this-year-profit-beats-estimates.html
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the
world’s second-largest producer of the metal, expects output to
decline 7.6 percent this fiscal year because results last year
included some volumes from competitor Lonmin Plc.  Output may fall to 1.7 million ounces in the year through
June 2012 from 1.84 million ounces, said Chief Executive Officer
 David Brown . Volumes through June 2011 helped boost earnings
excluding one-time items by 41 percent to 11.05 rand ($1.53) a
share, Impala said today in a statement. That beat the 10.92-
rand average estimate of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Last year’s production results benefited from a “one-off
treatment from Lonmin,” Brown told reporters on a call. Impala
also suspended output at its new No. 20 shaft in  South Africa 
for “infrastructure development,” deferring 26,000 ounces by a
year to fiscal 2013, he said.  The Johannesburg-based company mines more than a fifth of
the world’s platinum, mainly in South Africa, which has the
largest reserves of the metal used in jewelry and car pollution
devices. Impala is spending 35 billion rand over the next five
years to expand production as rising demand drives up prices.  Impala fell 4.40 rand, or 2.6 percent, to 165.50 rand in
Johannesburg trading, giving a decline this year of 29 percent.
Anglo American Platinum Ltd., the largest producer of the metal,
has lost 19 percent to 562.33 rand in the period.  Production Outlook  Impala, the most profitable of the large platinum miners,
is seeking to boost annual output to more than 2 million ounces
by 2014, benefiting from a forecast supply shortfall of about
135,000 ounces next year, according to data on its  website . The
metal, which touched $1,831 an ounce in  London  today, may climb
to $1,950 in the next six to nine months, Brown told reporters.  The company also produces platinum and related metals in
 Zimbabwe , where it’s in talks with the government after
President  Robert Mugabe  demanded that foreign companies transfer
control of mines to local people.  “We are confident that we will find a solution,” Brown
said today. More than 40 percent of the company’s attributable
mineral resources are in Zimbabwe. “An appropriate level of
ownership will be the final result,” he said, adding that the
51 percent local-equity requirement is “hugely problematic.”  Afplats Conflict  Impala has also been fighting a dispute over prospecting
rights at the  Afplats  project, a venture in the Bushveld Complex
in South Africa’s North West Province. The dispute, which
followed South Africa’s award of rights in the area to a third
party, was resolved in Afplats’ favor, Impala said in a website
statement today.  The country’s online prospecting application system, opened
this year, has had “unintended consequences,” Impala said,
adding that several other licensing areas have been affected.  Impala will probably decide between February and May
whether to go ahead with its Afplats mine project, Brown told
Bloomberg today. An initial cost estimate is 6 billion rand to 7
billion rand, he said.  The company will seek to cap rand-per-ounce cost increases
at 9 percent this fiscal year, even as electricity and labor
expenses in South Africa rise faster than inflation, Brown said.  Impala’s platinum reserves totaled 35 million ounces as of
June 30, a 5 percent decline from a year earlier, the company
said, citing changes in the “mine plan” at its Marula Platinum
unit and depletion of reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  