-- 
Impala Platinum Says Zimbabwe Ownership Law Blocks $10 Billion Investment

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-08-26T16:03:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/impala-platinum-says-zimbabwe-law-blocks-10-billion-investment.html
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the
world’s second-largest producer of the metal, may invest as much
as $10 billion in  Zimbabwe  to expand production if the
government backs down on a demand that its business there be
controlled by black citizens of the country.  Zimbabwe, which has the world’s largest platinum reserves
after South Africa, passed a law earlier this year to force
foreign companies to cede at least 51 percent of their local
assets to black Zimbabweans. Anglo American Platinum Ltd., the
world’s largest platinum producer, and  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP) ,
also mine the metal in the southern African country.  “It would run into the billions of dollars, probably
between $5 and $10 billion,” Chief Executive Officer  David Brown  said in an interview in Johannesburg yesterday, where the
company is based. “Fifty-one percent equity just does not
work.”  Impala first invested in Zimbabwe in 2001 when it bought 30
percent of Zimbabwe Platinum Mines Ltd. for the equivalent of
$47 million and later took control of the company. It is now the
biggest investor in Zimbabwean mining, with the country in the
third year of recovery from a decade-long recession sparked by
the seizure of white-owned commercial farms for redistribution
to black subsistence farmers.  ‘Big Risk’  The unit, now known as  Zimplats Holdings Ltd. (ZIM) , produced
182,100 ounces of platinum in the year to June 30 and is in the
midst of a $460 million expansion of its Ngezi mine, southwest
of the capital Harare to boost output to 270,000 ounces in 2014,
according to a company statement.  “It’s a very big risk for Zimplats and by extension
Impala,” Piet Viljoen, chairman of RE:CM, which manages about
18 billion rand ($2.5 billion) of assets, said in an interview
from  Cape Town . “If the government takes up to 50 percent of
the company for no consideration it’s like giving away 50
percent of a valuable asset. It’s entirely possible.”  “We could begin to look at phase three and beyond but this
requires stability,” Brown told investors at a presentation.
Impala has until Aug. 31 to revise a May proposal to satisfy
ownership rules after it was rejected last week.  Impala also owns the Mimosa mine in the country in a
venture with Aquarius.  ‘Huge Disappointment’  Impala, which produces about 25 percent of the world’s
platinum, used to cut car emissions and make jewelery, is
spending 35 billion rand over the next five years to expand
production as rising demand drives up prices. While most of its
deposits are in  South Africa , 11.3 million ounces, or almost a
third of its total platinum reserves, are in Zimbabwe. That’s
worth about $21 billion at the current platinum price.  “It’s a huge disappointment that we find ourselves in this
position - we’ve been a model investor in this country,” Brown
said in the interview. Impala believes “an appropriate level of
ownership will be the final result” of talks with the
government, Brown told investors. The ownership rule could
“retard” investment in mining and other industries at a time
when it’s needed, he said.  Economic expansion has been “largely confined to the
mining and agriculture sectors,” the London-based Economist
Intelligence Unit said in a report earlier this month. Power
shortages, uncertainty over the likely election timetable “and
continued confusion about legislation requiring 51 percent local
ownership of all enterprises, are likely to prevent more rapid
gross domestic product expansion,” it said.  Chrome, Gold  Mines Minister  Obert Mpofu  said he can’t comment yet
because he has not heard about the possible investment, when
Bloomberg News reached him by phone in Harare. Calls to
Indigenization Minister  Saviour Kasukuwere ’s office in the city
weren’t answered.  Zimplats signed an agreement with the government in 2006 to
release of a portion of its mining claims in exchange for a
combination of black empowerment credits and cash. Impala said
in a June statement that year the area contains 99 million
ounces of platinum, palladium, rhodium and gold.  The area could support open-pit mining and “could be
turned into quite a profitable concern,” Brown told investors
yesterday. “They gave that ground to people who weren’t
necessarily interested in mining it.”  The country also has the world’s second-biggest chrome
reserves, as well as deposits of coal, gold and iron ore.  Impala gained 3 rand, or 1.8 percent, to 168.50 rand by the
5 p.m. close in Johannesburg, giving it a market value of 106
billion rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  