-- 
India Revamps Solar Auction Supply Rules, First Solar May Benefit

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-25T10:30:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/india-revamps-solar-auction-supply-rules-first-solar-may-benefit.html
India revamped the rules for its
second national auction of permits to build solar power plants,
which could boost sales for equipment providers including  First
Solar Inc. (FSLR)  and allow banks to lend more easily to the industry.  The government invited companies  to register  starting today
for the auction that will award licenses to build as much as 350
megawatts of solar photovoltaic plants by 2013. New rules
include changes that increase the size and amount of projects
companies can win.  Indosolar Ltd. (ISLR) ,  Moser Baer India Ltd. (MBI)  and  Websol Energy
Systems Ltd. (WESL)  rose in Mumbai trading after the new guidelines
said projects using crystalline silicon technology would have to
buy solar cells made domestically. The companies are India’s
three largest traded makers of the cells used in solar panels.  “This is a big boon for these companies,” said Madhavan
Nampoothiri, principal consultant with Chennai-based Energy
Alternatives  India .  First Solar, the world’s biggest maker of thin-film solar
modules, and U.S. suppliers such as Abound Solar Inc. may still
benefit because their technology is exempted from the local
sourcing rules, Nampoothiri said. Indian project developers may
import thin-film panels because they tend to be cheaper than
crystalline, he said.  The government raised the maximum size of each project to
20 megawatts from 5 megawatts and said each bidder could win as
much as 50 megawatts of the total capacity. That could attract
more companies to participate, such as Tata Power Co., one of
India’s largest private power producers, which sat out of
December’s auction, citing reasons including small projects that
wouldn’t be profitable enough.  Easier Financing  India is positioning itself to become one of the world’s
fastest-growing solar markets with plans to build 20,000-
megawatt of capacity, equivalent to about 18 nuclear  power
plants , by 2022. Winning permits through the government auction
allows companies to build plants that will get incentives
including an assured buyer of their electricity and favorable
payments for their power.  The government extended the deadline for the winners to
arrange financing for their projects to seven months from the
six months offered in the first auction. Companies in that round
struggled to obtain loans from banks that were wary about
lending to a technology new to India.  Bharat Bhushan, Bloomberg New Energy Finance solar analyst
in  New Delhi , said  project financing  could get easier for the
industry. “The lenders may find it easier and less risky to
appraise a small number of bigger projects rather than a large
number of smaller projects,” he said.  50 Percent Ownership  The new rules also require the controlling shareholder of
each project to retain at least 50 percent ownership until a
year after the plant starts generating power. That is up from 26
percent earlier after Renewable Ministry Secretary Deepak Gupta
said the government wanted to discourage “fly-by-night”
operators seeking to speculate by selling off licenses too
quickly without building projects.  The new batch of permits will be for photovoltaic plants,
which can use crystalline or thin-film panels to turn sunlight
directly into power. Thin-film panels are made by depositing
semiconducting material such as cadmium telluride onto metal or
glass. Traditional panels are made by slicing crystalline
silicon wafers into cells and assembling them into modules.  Bids are due by 5 p.m. local time on Sept. 23. The
shortlisted candidates will be announced on Nov. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  