-- 
Indian Court Seeks Pollution Information at Sterlite Plant

-- B y   P . S .   P a t n a i k   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 
2011-08-25T10:18:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/indian-court-seeks-pollution-information-at-sterlite-plant-1-.html
India ’s top court today sought
information about effluents from Sterlite Industries (India)
Ltd.’s copper smelter, which faces charges of violating
environmental rules.  The Tamil Nadu pollution control board has to file an
application specifying the polluting materials and suggest steps
to control pollution in and around the factory, a two-judge
bench headed by R.V. Raveendran said in an interim order in New
Delhi. The court on Sept. 6 will direct Sterlite, which appealed
against a lower court order asking it to shut the factory in the
southern state, on steps it should take to check contamination.  The Madras High Court on Sept. 28 ruled Sterlite’s 400,000
metric ton Tuticorin smelter should be shut for breaching
environmental standards. India is tightening rules to protect
ecologically sensitive regions, prevent illegal mining and
safeguard the resources and livelihood of the people living
around mines and factories.  The  Supreme Court  has allowed Sterlite to run the factory
through interim orders since Oct. 18 and had asked the state and
the federal government to file replies on the court’s notice. It
ordered Sterlite, a unit of  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , to give
information about the environmental impact of the waste
generated from the facility.  Sterlite shares fell 0.3 percent to 125.05 rupees at the
close of trading in Mumbai. The key Sensitive Index of the
Bombay Stock Exchange fell 0.9 percent.  The company’s plan to double the Tuticorin smelter capacity
to 800,000 tons by the middle of 2011 has been delayed, pending
approval from the pollution control board, according to the
latest annual report. The smelter mainly uses imported copper
concentrate.  Sterlite’s copper business, including rods, cathodes and
chemicals, generated sales of 156.6 billion rupees ($3.4 billion)
in the last fiscal year, an increase of 20 percent from year-
earlier period, according to the annual report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
P.S. Patnaik in  New Delhi  at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 keenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  