-- 
India’s Rupee Falls to One-Year Low as Capital Outflows Increase

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-08-25T12:06:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/india-s-rupee-falls-to-one-year-low-as-capital-outflows-increase.html
India ’s rupee fell to the weakest
level in almost a year as exchange data showed overseas
investors increased sales of local stocks before data that may
show growth in Asia’s third-biggest economy slowed.  Foreign funds sold $182 million more Indian shares than
they bought in the first two days of this week, taking net sales
so far this month to $1.85 billion, according to data published
late yesterday by the Securities & Exchange Board of India. The
$1.7 trillion economy grew 7.6 percent in the three months ended
June, the smallest gain in six quarters, according to the median
forecast of 24 economists before a report due on Aug. 30.  The selloff in stocks “is putting psychological pressure
on the rupee,” said Krishnamurthy Harihar, Mumbai-based
treasurer at FirstRand Ltd. “The story behind the weakness is
that global and Indian economies slowing down.”  The rupee dropped 0.1 percent to 46.0565 per dollar as of
the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 46.2250 earlier, the weakest level since
Sept. 16, 2010. The rupee’s 4 percent loss this month is the
worst performance among  Asia ’s 10 most-traded currencies.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index fell 11.3
percent this month, headed for the biggest decline since
January. The gauge declined 0.9 percent today.  The  Federal Reserve ’s decision to keep record-low  interest
rates  and the possibility of more steps to stimulate the  U.S.
economy  may boost commodity prices and fan inflation in India,
the South Asian nation’s central bank said today.  Commodity Prices  “Given the fiscal limitations and growing signs of
weakness in the U.S., the Fed has already indicated that it will
pursue its near-zero rate policy at least till mid-2013,” the
 Reserve Bank  of India said in its annual report in Mumbai. “It
has also hinted at another dose of quantitative easing. This
policy stance may keep the commodity prices elevated.”  India imports about 80 percent of its oil. Crude prices in
 New York  have gained 18 percent in the past 12 months, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Offshore forwards indicate the Indian currency will trade
at 46.46 to the dollar in three months, compared with
expectations of 46.42 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy
or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable
contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  