-- 
InterDigital Case Against ZTE, Huawei Gets Trade Agency Review

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-08-25T20:44:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/interdigital-case-against-zte-huawei-gets-trade-agency-review.html
InterDigital Inc.’s patent-
infringement complaint seeking to block imports of phones made
by  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ,  ZTE Corp. (000063)  and Huawei Technologies Co. will be
investigated by the U.S. International Trade Commission.  InterDigital, owner of about 1,300 U.S. patents related to
mobile phones, claims the companies are infringing seven patents
related to so-called third-generation wireless technology. The
ITC, which  announced  the investigation on its website today,
typically takes 15 to 18 months to complete a review and can ban
imports of products that it finds violate U.S. patents.  Huawei had challenged the July 26 complaint in an Aug. 5
filing, accusing InterDigital of bringing the case “purely for
the purpose of inflating its value as it prepares to sell its IP
assets.” King of Prussia, Pennsylvania-based InterDigital hired
Evercore Partners Inc. and  Barclays Capital  in July to help
explore a potential sale of its intellectual property to take
advantage of increased demand for wireless patents.  InterDigital has said it filed the ITC complaint because
Nokia, ZTE and Huawei refused to pay licensing fees.
InterDigital already had a case against Espoo, Finland-based
Nokia at the ITC that it lost, and is awaiting an appeals court
ruling in that dispute.  A victory in the new case could result in a ban of phones,
USB sticks, mobile hot spots and tablets made by the three
companies. Huawei and ZTE are  China ’s two largest makers of
phone equipment. Both are based in Shenzhen, China.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Wireless Devices with
3G Capabilities and Components Thereof, 337-800, U.S.
International Trade Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  