-- 
Lira Jumps as Citigroup Bets World’s Worst Performing Currency Will Steady

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-08-25T13:11:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/lira-rises-on-expectation-of-stimulus-from-federal-reserve.html
The lira surged in Istanbul as banks
including Citigroup Inc. bought on bets the central bank may
succeed in halting the biggest decline among emerging market
currencies this year.  The lira gained 1.5 percent to 1.7584 per dollar at 3:29
p.m. in Istanbul, the biggest increase in two weeks, making it
the best performer today among more than 20 emerging markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  Citigroup Inc. closed a dollar-lira trade at 1.7820 liras
per dollar, making a profit of 11 percent since selling liras
for dollars on Jan. 13 at 1.5500. London-based investors sold
about $500 million for liras today, broker Garanti Securities
strategist Tufan Comert said.  “The central bank over the past few weeks has indicated
that it does not wish to see further  currency depreciation ,”
Citigroup strategists Wike Groenenberg and  Luis Costa  said in 
an e-mailed report. “The governor has talked about the lira 
being 5-10% undervalued and the central bank has altered its 
intervention policies.”  The lira has lost 12 percent this year, the worst performer
among more than 20 emerging markets, on concern for the
country’s current account deficit, which widened to a record of
about 9 percent of economic output in the 12 months through
June.  Fed Meeting  The lira also gained ahead of a meeting between Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and other central bankers in
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , tomorrow. Some investors are expecting
the Fed to announce further stimulus measures.  “There is optimism in the market because of the
expectation that Bernanke will say something that will satisfy
the markets,” said Henza Tukel, a currency trader at Turk
Ekonomi Bankasi AS in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  Central bank governor Erdem Basci began selling dollars for
lira on Aug. 5 to help support the currency. The bank sold $70
million today, less than the $100 million it sold in the last
three trading days.  “We are seeing capital inflows into emerging markets at
large,” Emir Baruh, a currency trader at Akbank TAS, said in an
e-mailed response to questions. “The players who had bought
foreign exchange before are selling today and corporate buying
of foreign exchange is also weak.”  Yields on the two-year benchmark bonds fell three basis
points, or 0.3 percentage point, to 7.95 percent, the first
decline in four days, a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi index of the
securities showed.  Trading of securities on the  Istanbul Stock Exchange  will
cease for a religious holiday on Aug. 29 and re-open on Sept. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  