-- 
Irene Evokes Great Hurricane of 1938 That Left 500 Dead in U.S. Northeast

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-25T20:06:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/irene-evokes-1938-storm-that-killed-500-in-u-s-northeast-wrecked-montauk.html
The projected path of Hurricane
Irene evokes a 1938 storm that left more than 500 dead after
crossing  Long Island , destroying the village of Montauk and
battering  Connecticut  and Rhode Island.  The Great New England Hurricane of 1938 was one of the most
destructive and powerful ever to strike the region, according to
the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration . It made
landfall in Milford, Connecticut, about 75 miles north of New
York City, on Sept. 21, producing peak gusts of 186 miles per
hour and tides as high as 25 feet on Cape Cod, the federal
agency said on its website.  “The ‘38 hurricane was the fastest hurricane ever
measured,” said Dave Samuel, a meteorologist at AccuWeather
Inc. in State College,  Pennsylvania .  Hurricane Irene, the strongest Atlantic storm to threaten
the U.S. since 2005, is forecast to pass near  North Carolina 
this weekend and slam into New England next week. Hurricane
watches are in force for the North Carolina coast as 115 miles-
per-hour (185 kilometers per hour) winds rip through the
Bahamas, damaging homes, felling trees and triggering flooding,
according to the country’s Emergency Management Agency.  Katharine Hepburn  In addition to recalling the 1938 storm, Irene is projected
to take a path similar to Hurricane Gloria’s in 1985, which
caused an estimated $1 billion in damages in today’s dollars,
according to  Chris Hyde , a meteorologist at MDA EarthSat Weather
in Gaithersburg,  Maryland . The northeastern portion of Irene’s
march also mirrors Hurricane Donna in 1960, which killed 148
people, according to the Weather Underground website.  New England ’s Great Hurricane was blamed for the
destruction of Katharine Hepburn’s family beach home in Old
Saybrook, Connecticut, according to her autobiography, “Me:
Stories of My Life.”  The actress, who died in 2003, wrote that she, her mother,
brother and servants narrowly escaped before their house was
lifted off its foundations and washed away. Her 1932-1933 best
actress Oscar was lost in the storm but later found intact, she
said.  The hurricane formed in the Cape Verde Islands off  Africa 
in early September, initially threatening the Florida coast
before traveling north. It was later estimated that by Sept. 20
it had reached Category 5 status, which at 155 miles per hour is
the most intense on the Saffir-Simpson scale. It then weakened
the next day to Category 3, crossing  New York ’s Long Island
before making landfall in the afternoon.  It didn’t weaken as most hurricanes do as they move over
colder waters, Samuel said. Cold water typically saps
hurricanes’ strength, while wind shear can tear at their
structure further diminishing them, he said.  Northward Sweep  “It got caught in a very powerful trough in the Jet Stream
that swept it northward very quickly,” said Jack Beven, senior
hurricane specialist at the  National Hurricane Center  in Miami.  In Rhode Island’s Narragansett Bay, a surge of 12 to 15
feet destroyed most coastal homes, marinas and yacht clubs, NOAA
said. Providence, the state’s capital, saw downtown submerged
under a storm tide of nearly 20 feet while sections of Falmouth
and New Bedford,  Massachusetts , were also under water.  The hurricane left 564 dead and at least 1,700 injured
along with the destruction of 2,605 fishing vessels, according
to NOAA. Among the victims were seven children who were
attempting to escape a school bus that had stalled in Jamestown,
 Rhode Island , according to a  local press account .  The storm system also produced rainfall of as much as 17
inches across most of the Connecticut River Valley, resulting in
severe flooding across sections of the state and Massachusetts.
Property losses were estimated at $4.7 billion in today’s
dollars, according to the  Boston Globe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  