-- 
Irene May Require Evacuations of Some New York City Areas, Bloomberg Says

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-08-25T15:43:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/irene-may-require-evacuations-of-some-new-york-city-areas-bloomberg-says.html
New York officials preparing for
Hurricane Irene this weekend will decide tomorrow whether to
call for the evacuation of low-lying areas in downtown
Manhattan,  Brooklyn , Queens and  Staten Island , Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said.  The decision would be based on the strength, path and speed
of the storm, Bloomberg told reporters today at a news
conference in a flood-prone section of Queens. The city would
offer “an enormous shelter system” for those without a place
to stay on higher ground, he said.  “We don’t have enough information yet to make that call,”
Bloomberg said. “The timing is a bit up in the air, as it is
with all these things. Sometime on Friday, late in the day. How
many depends on how severe we think the storm is going to be.”  Officials must decide whether to suggest or order people to
seek higher ground, Bloomberg said. The mayor has the power to
issue an executive order forcing evacuation, which Bloomberg
said he would use only in the “worst circumstances.”  The heightening concern over the approaching storm and the
quickening pace of preparations became evident at 11 a.m. today
when Bloomberg summoned the city’s elected officials as well as
its state legislative delegation to  City Hall  for a briefing
with police and emergency-management officials.  Gloria in 1985  Irene, the strongest Atlantic storm to threaten the U.S.
since 2005, battered the Bahamas today with 113 mph winds on a
course that’s expected to take it near  North Carolina  this
weekend and  New England  next week. Only five hurricanes on
record dating to 1851 have tracked within 75 miles of  New York
City , the most recent being Gloria in 1985, according to the
 National Weather Service .  City officials are planning for a storm on Aug. 28 with
winds of at least 60 miles per hour (97 kilometers per hour)
accompanied by heavy rain, the mayor said. They expect the brunt
of the storm to cross mid-Long Island, on the border of Nassau
and Suffolk counties, to the east of the city, he said.  He advised residents to prepare “go-bags” containing
water, non-perishable food, medications, important papers and
extra house and car keys in the event officials declare the
storm dangerous enough to evacuate. The areas affected include
lower  Manhattan , southeast Queens, Brooklyn’s beach communities
including Coney Island and coastal areas of Staten Island,
Bloomberg said.  The Police Department has 50 small boats to use in the
event of floods. Sanitation crews are cleaning leaves and refuse
from storm sewers and moving equipment to higher ground.
Hospitals have checked their emergency power generators, stocks
of medicine and other supplies.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg..net  