-- 
Hispanic Gains Push U.S. College Enrollment

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-25T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/hispanic-gains-push-u-s-college-enrollment.html
A surge in Hispanic enrollment
brought the number of U.S. college students ages 18 to 24 to a
record high last year even as the number of young whites at
universities fell, a Pew Hispanic Center study found.  Hispanic students in that age range rose 24 percent from
2009 to 1.8 million, making them the largest minority group at
U.S. colleges, according to a study released today by the
 center , part of the Washington-based Pew Research Center. Total
18-to-24-year-old enrollment was 12.2 million, while the number
of white students declined 4 percent to 7.7 million, the
organization reported.  The gain in Hispanic enrollment, outstripping the 7 percent
increase in U.S. Hispanic population during the period, may be
linked to rising high school completion in the group, said
Richard Fry, a senior research associate at the center who led
the study. A tighter job market following the recession that
began in 2007 may also be prompting more students to pursue
higher education, he said.  “There may be other factors here that we can’t see,” he
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “This is an inkling
that young Hispanics are narrowing the educational gap compared
to white students, getting exposure to college, and I think
that’s a good thing.”  Hispanics are a relatively young population, and an
increasing percentage has been reaching college age, said
Deborah Santiago, vice president for policy and research at
 Excelencia in Education , a Washington-based research group.  College Prep  In addition, “we’re finding that more Latino students are
graduating from high school after taking a curriculum that would
make them college-ready,” she said.  The rise in college-ready Hispanics may also be linked to a
higher percentage of U.S.-born high school students, compared to
immigrants, Santiago said. U.S.-born Hispanics are half as
likely to drop out of high school as those born in other
countries, she said.  Students 18 to 24 years old were 60 percent of the last
year’s total of 20.3 million in U.S. colleges, the study found.  The drop among white college students ages 18 to 24
occurred as the  U.S. population  in that range fell from a 2008
peak of 17.8 million to 17.7 million in October 2010, Fry said.  “The reason that there’s fewer of them in college is that
there’s fewer of them,” he said. “But there are other factors
in the decline that we don’t know.”  Hispanics have long been one of the least educated U.S.
population groups, Fry said. More research will be needed to see
whether the higher enrollment numbers translate into more
Hispanics with degrees, and better job prospects, he said.  “What employers like to see is sheepskins, and we don’t
know if this will lead to sheepskins yet,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at   jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  