-- 
Israeli Strikes Kill Five in Gaza as Rockets Fall on South

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-25T18:47:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/israeli-strikes-kill-five-in-gaza-as-rockets-fall-on-south-3-.html
Nine Palestinians were killed in a
series of Israeli airstrikes against targets in the  Gaza Strip 
and one person died of injuries sustained in an earlier raid, a
hospital official said.  The deaths raise to 10 the number of Palestinians killed in
Israeli strikes against the seaside enclave in the past two
days, Adham Abu Selmeya, head of Gaza emergency health services,
said by phone. One person in Israel was wounded after more than
18 rockets and mortar shells hit the south of the country, the
Israeli army said.  The bloodshed comes after the Islamic Hamas movement, which
controls Gaza, said on Aug. 22 that an informal agreement was
reached with Israel to end violence that escalated after Aug. 18
attacks near the Red Sea resort of Eilat left eight Israelis
dead. At least 14 Palestinians were killed in Israeli strikes
following that attack. One person was killed in rocket attacks.
Islamic Jihad and the Popular Front for the Liberation of
 Palestine , two militant groups not directly affiliated with
Hamas, claimed responsibility for rocket strikes during the past
24 hours, according to e-mailed statements.  “Both Israel and Hamas want to keep the cease-fire, but it
seems there some small Palestinian groups such as Islamic Jihad
who are interested in escalating,” said Mukhemer Abu Sada, a
political scientist at Al-Azhar University in Gaza City. Islamic
Jihad, which is backed by  Iran , “is trying to embarrass Hamas
by showing that it’s not the only player in town,” Abu Sada
said.  Israeli Airstrikes  Israeli warplanes struck weapons manufacturing and storage
facilities and a smuggling tunnel late yesterday, according to
an e-mailed statement from the army spokesman’s office. At least
18 rockets and mortar shells have been fired at southern Israel
since yesterday morning and a child was lightly wounded, the
army said. Five people were killed in the overnight strikes and
two were killed after dusk, Abu Selmeya said. Two Palestinians
were killed in Israeli bombings earlier yesterday and one person
later died of his wounds Abu Selmeya said. At least 25 people
were wounded, he said.  Three Egyptian border policemen were also killed as part of
the Aug. 18 incident.  Egypt  has threatened to withdraw its
ambassador unless it receives an apology from the government of
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.  Joint Investigation  Israel is ready to conduct a joint inquiry into the border
incident, Netanyahu’s security adviser Yaakov Amidror said
today, according to a text message from the Prime Minister’s
Office. Discussions with Egypt are already under way to set up
the investigation, according to an Israeli official speaking
anonymously, as he wasn’t authorized to speak on record.  Hamas ousted forces loyal to Palestinian Authority
President Mahmoud Abbas’s Fatah faction in 2007 to gain control
of Gaza after winning parliamentary elections the year before. A
three-week operation that Israel began in December 2008 to halt
rocket fire from Gaza left more than 1,300 Palestinians and 13
Israelis dead.  Hamas is designated as a terrorist group by  Israel , the
U.S. and the European Union.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 