-- 
TiVo Rises Most Since April After Limiting Quarterly Loss

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-08-25T20:18:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/tivo-rises-after-reporting-smaller-than-estimated-quarterly-loss.html
TiVo Inc. (TIVO) , the inventor of the
digital-video recorder, rose the most in four months after
reporting a smaller second-quarter loss than analysts
anticipated, helped by an increase in new subscribers.  TiVo advanced $1.38, or 17 percent, to $9.50 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the biggest gain since
April 20. The shares are up 10 percent this year.  The Alviso, California-based company yesterday reported
that its net loss widened to $19.6 million, or 17 cents a share,
from a loss of $15.3 million, or 13 cents, a year earlier,
according to a statement. Analysts had projected a 20-cent loss,
the average of eight estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  TiVo has increased sales, which rose 19 percent to $61.2
million, by selling directly to cable operators and satellite
providers. The company enrolled 10,000 new subscribers in the
quarter, compared with a loss of 77,000 users a year earlier.
Suddenlink Communications, RCN Corp., and U.K.-based  Virgin
Media Inc. (VMED)  have begun offering TiVo products to customers.  TiVo has also started manufacturing high-definition set-top
boxes for  DirecTV (DTV) , the largest U.S. satellite-TV provider, which
could accelerate TiVo’s customer acquisitions by the end of the
year, Chief Executive Officer Tom Rogers said in an interview.  The number of retail customers that pay TiVo directly for
service fell by 43,000 to 1.17 million.  The company may benefit from an overall rise in
intellectual property patents, highlighted by recent
acquisitions for technology companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
purchase of Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., which also makes
set-top boxes.  “We have one of the more significant advanced patent
portfolios out there,” said Rogers in a conference call
yesterday. “We’ll continue to evaluate how to get the most out
of this portfolio, as the patent world continues to evolve.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  