-- 
Japan Consumer Prices Rise 0.1% Even Amid Signs Nation Still in Deflation

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-08-25T23:38:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/japan-consumer-prices-unexpectedly-rose-0-1-.html
Japan ’s core consumer prices
unexpectedly rose in July, gains economists say won’t end the
nation’s fight against deflation.  Prices excluding fresh food rose 0.1 percent in July from a
year earlier, the statistics bureau said in Tokyo today. The
median estimate of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for a 0.1 percent drop.  Persistent deflation exacerbates Japan’s problems in coping
with a yen close to a record high against the dollar at a time
when the economy is just recovering from a March earthquake.
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s successor will be challenged with
working with the Bank of Japan to fight price declines that have
kept the economy stuck near its 1990 size.  “The sustainability of Japan’s recovery is now in question
with the strong yen and a weakening global economy,”  Yoshiki Shinke , a senior economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute
in Tokyo, said before the report. “I don’t see any chance
deflation will end in the foreseeable future. This will remain a
big challenge for the government and the  Bank of Japan. (8301) ”  Japan’s consumer prices were revised on Aug. 12 as the
bureau reshuffled items in the price basket, part of a change
that takes places every five years. The revamping of the index
lowered prices by about 0.6 percentage point on average.  Central bank Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said Aug. 4 the
nation will take a while to achieve  price stability  as he
anticipated new figures would show price declines have been
worse than initially anticipated. The central bank kept its
estimate for core consumer price inflation at 0.7 percent for
the year ending March 31 in July.  Yen Relief Measures  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  this week unveiled measures
to combat the yen which reached a record high of 75.95 per
dollar last week. Japan set up a $100 billion facility to
promote companies purchasing overseas businesses and secure
energy resources.  The strong yen erodes overseas profits when repatriated,
weakening the competitiveness of exporters, one of the nation’s
main engines of growth.  “I have kept monitoring markets with a sense of tension
since last weekend, but the yen continues to have one-sided
moves,” Noda, who is also a contender to replace Kan, told
reporters this week. “I thought we had to swiftly address this
by employing measures.”  Leadership Race  Candidates of the ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan are
scheduled to compete in a party election on Aug. 29 to be the
sixth premier in five years. The race comes less than a week
after Moody’s Investors Service cut Japan’s credit rating,
citing political instability.  Economists including Dai-Ichi’s Shinke say prices may rise
in coming months because of rising commodity costs. Japan will
raise prices of imported wheat to flour millers by an average 2
percent in October, the government said this week. Wheat futures
in  Chicago  have advanced 11 percent in the past year as of Aug.
24, bolstering a rally in global food prices to an all- time
high in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  