-- 
Japan’s Shift to Solar Power Hinges on Banks Ending Loan Drought

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 
2011-08-26T03:08:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/japan-s-shift-to-solar-power-hinges-on-banks-ending-loan-drought.html
Japan  is beginning a shift to solar
energy that lacks one ingredient: bank financing.  For lenders like  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , a
commitment to offer loans to solar ventures depends on
legislation passed today that will subsidize renewable energy,
part of Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s initiative to cut Japan’s
reliance on atomic energy after the Fukushima nuclear crisis.  Trading houses Mitsui & Co. and Mitsubishi Corp., insurers
Munich Re and  Tokio Marine Holdings Inc. (8766) , and billionaire
Masayoshi Son are among those ready to invest in solar power.
For their businesses to become viable, they need utilities to
buy electricity generated by the sun, wind and geothermal heat
at above-market prices, known as feed-in tariffs.  “Feed-in tariffs will be a driving force to push solar
power plant projects,” said Kenji Baba, a senior vice president
at  Sumitomo Mitsui  in the industrial projects team. “Lending
requirements will emerge as soon as they become economically
viable and bring about decent returns on investment.”  Japan plans to expand its renewable  energy industry  to 10
trillion yen ($130 billion) by 2020, lagging behind  Germany ,
which has increased reliance on clean fuel and reduced nuclear
generation since adopting a subsidy program more than 20 years
ago. Investing in solar power would give Japanese banks new
business in a country where loans have shrunk for 20 months as
deflation and a declining population dissuade borrowers.  Promising Industry  “Banks surely want to boost loans for a promising industry
while still lending to long-standing clients such as
utilities,” said Tomohiro Jikihara, an energy analyst at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in  Tokyo . “Solar power would help to
supplement Japan’s energy-supply portfolio, which would retain
nuclear generation as a pillar.”  Renewable energy, including solar, wind and geothermal
sources, accounted for 2.9 percent of Japan’s power generation
in 2010, compared with 15 percent in Germany, according to data
from the  International Energy Agency . Nuclear made up 26.9
percent of the Asian nation’s energy needs, more than Germany’s
22.9 percent.  Financing for new solar projects in Germany increased five
times to $35.6 billion in 2010 from $7.1 billion in 2005,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
That’s 45 percent of global funding, which jumped to $78.4
billion last year from $11.6 billion in 2005, the data show.  Nuclear Lifeline  Local authorities are embracing Kan’s pledge to reduce
reliance on atomic energy since the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami wrecked the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, leading to
radiation leaks. Kanagawa, a prefecture that borders Tokyo and
is home to the port city of Yokohama, wants to expand solar-
power generation by as much as 6,600 megawatts, the combined
capacity of about six nuclear reactors.  “Kanagawa relied on Fukushima nuclear generation as part
of our lifeline,” Governor Yuji Kuroiwa said in an interview.
“Now we need to build our local production-and-consumption
power system and in so doing solar is a big option.”  Sales of equipment to generate solar energy in Japan could
double to 2,300 megawatts next year from 1,100 megawatts in 2010,
Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates. That would cost about
1.4 trillion yen, based on the current installation expense of
600,000 yen a kilowatt.  Sumitomo Mitsui, the country’s second-biggest bank by
market value, and state-run  Development Bank  of Japan have both
sent officials to find out more about Kuroiwa’s plans.  Only Banker  Keisuke Takegahara, head of Development Bank’s environment
division, was the only banker to attend the prefecture’s first
meetings on the project about two months after the March
disaster. He told the group that the amount and duration of
tariffs to be set by the government are crucial to determining
the pace of growth in photovoltaic plant demand.  “Private money can only follow a project that brings about
decent returns -- it’s that simple,” Takegahara said. “When it
comes to solar, the feed-in tariff is the one thing that will
decide the fate of a project.”  The legislation approved by the upper house of the Diet
today doesn’t specify how much and for how long power suppliers
will pay for renewable energy. The new law will become effective
on July 1, 2012.  Sumitomo Mitsui is prepared to lend at least 5 billion yen
for individual solar plant projects depending on factors
including the tariff rates and profit outlook, according to
Masaki Hikihara, head of domestic  project financing  at the bank.  While lenders waver, asset managers and trading houses are
preparing to invest.  Tokio Marine  Fund  Tokio Marine Asset Management Co., a unit of Japan’s
second-largest non-life insurer, allied with Mitsui, the
country’s second-biggest trading company, to set up a fund that
will exclusively invest in solar projects for the first time,
said Ryuichi Hokao, head of the asset manager’s product planning.
The fund will start with as much as 10 billion yen, aiming to
diversify investment into as many as 10 solar plants in Japan.  Local pensions are among potential investors for the fund,
which will seek annual returns of 3 percent, Hokao said. Tokio
Marine will raise the cash, while Mitsui oversees the
construction and operation of plants, he said.  Softbank Corp. Chief Executive Officer Son joined local
governments and trading companies led by  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  in
moving ahead with solar projects. Mitsubishi, the country’s
biggest trading company, last year teamed up with the
prefectural government of Kumamoto, southwestern Japan, to
develop renewable energy projects including a solar power plant.  Insuring Solar  Baba of Sumitomo Mitsui said insuring solar assets would
also help persuade banks to offer loans.  Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer, agreed in July to
insure a Japanese solar module maker’s liability for the
performance of its products, the first such deal in the country.
Under the accord, Munich Re will insure the panel maker, Solar
Frontier K.K., a unit of Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K., for as long as
20 years to cover any unexpected, substantial loss of quality.  “The contract with  Munich Re  will add value to our
products and help project investors clinch loan agreements with
banks,” said Atsuhiko Hirano, senior vice president of Solar
Frontier, which started commercial operations in July at a 100
billion yen factory in southern Japan. “It’s just a matter of
time before a slew of mega-solar projects tied with bank
financing emerge in Japan, like what’s taken place in  Europe .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net . 