-- 
Bank of Japan Must Ready for Fed Boosting Yen, Former Central Banker Says

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-08-25T04:09:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/japan-must-ready-for-fed-boosting-yen-ex-boj-official.html
The Bank of Japan should be prepared
to counter gains in the yen if U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signals more policy easing at a central bankers’
forum in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , a former BOJ official said.  A failure by the Japanese central bank to respond ``would 
encourage investors to buy up the yen,” Naohiko Baba, chief Japan
economist at Goldman Sachs Japan Co., said in an interview in
Tokyo today. “The Bank of Japan learned that lesson last year”
when it waited until October to add monetary stimulus after
Bernanke suggested at the same event that the U.S. may need a 
second round of quantitative easing, he said.  Baba formerly led financial system analysts at the BOJ.  The yen has gained more than 6 percent against the dollar
in the past three months, threating to hobble  Japan ’s recovery
from the March 11 earthquake. Finance Minister Yoshihiko Noda
yesterday unveiled a $100 billion program to help companies cope
with the strengthening yen after yen-sales and an expansion of
the BOJ’s asset-buying fund to 15 trillion yen ($195 billion)
failed to alleviate the currency’s surge.  Bernanke is scheduled to speak Aug. 26 at the annual
conference, the venue he used last year to hint at the second
round of quantitative easing in which the Fed purchased $600
billion of Treasuries. The yen gained against the dollar after
that, and Japan’s central bank on Oct. 5 cut its benchmark
interest rate to a range of zero to 0.1 percent and established
a fund to buy  government bonds  and other financial assets.  Must Cooperate  “The  Bank of Japan (8301)  and the government must cooperate
closely using a wide range of policies including intervention
and other policies like further easing,” Baba said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. “The important thing is to
show the determination of the government and the Bank of Japan
to combat the yen’s strengthening trend.”  The Japanese currency traded at 76.98 per dollar at 12:45
p.m. in Tokyo today. The currency reached a post-World War II
record of 75.95 on Aug. 19 in  New York .  The Fed pledged this month to keep its benchmark interest
rate at a record low zero to 0.25 percent at least through
mid-2013 to revive a recovery that’s “considerably slower”
than anticipated. Bernanke told Congress on July 13 the Fed has
stimulus options including buying additional securities,
increasing the average maturity of its bond portfolio, lowering
the  interest rate  on excess reserves and pledging to keep its
balance sheet near a record high for a longer period of time.  Further Stimulus  Takahide Kiuchi, chief economist at Nomura Securities Co.
in Tokyo, said Aug. 23 he expects the Bank of Japan to expand
its asset fund by 3 to 5 trillion yen in coordination with
government-ordered yen sales as early as this month, compared
with an earlier expectation of additional monetary stimulus in
the fourth quarter.  The government will release foreign-exchange reserves to
the  Japan Bank for International Cooperation  for funding to aid
exporters and spur purchases overseas, Noda told reporters in
Tokyo yesterday. JBIC, as the lender is known, is a state-run
export credit agency.  The announcement came only hours after Japan’s debt rating
was lowered by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited “weak”
prospects for economic growth that will make it difficult for
the government to rein in the world’s largest public debt
burden. The advancing yen is a “headwind against export
competitiveness,” Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  Tokyo  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  