-- 
Jobs Leaves Deputies at Apple to Extend Legacy That Spawned Best-Sellers

-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-08-25T06:31:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/jobs-leaves-deputies-to-extend-legacy.html
Steve Jobs , departing as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s chief executive officer after a more than 9,000-percent
share gain since 1997, leaves the company he co-founded in the
hands of deputies to prove they can keep building best-selling
products that change how people compute and communicate.  Apple’s next set of challenges includes expansion in  China ,
the release of new versions of the iPhone and iPad tablet, and
the introduction of an online service that lets customers store
music and information across a broad range of Apple devices.  Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook , who succeeds Jobs as CEO,
will lead executives responsible for designing the next
generation of Apple electronics. His team will need to extend
Jobs’s legacy for entering new markets while fending off rivalry
from companies including Google Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co.  “Given the depth of its pipeline and its execution, Apple
will continue to be the benchmark in the technology sector,”
said  Ashok Kumar , an analyst at New York-based Rodman & Renshaw
LLC. “We do not see anything on the horizon that can even
remotely match what Apple has offered.”  Jobs, who is becoming chairman of Cupertino, California-
based Apple, told the board he intends to be active in the new
role, according to a person familiar with the matter.  “I believe Apple’s brightest and most innovative days are
ahead of it,” Jobs said in his resignation letter. Jobs has
fought a rare form of cancer and survived a  liver transplant .  Apple may be poised for success in the immediate aftermath
of Jobs’s departure because it is releasing products whose
design he set in motion.  Jobs’s Vision  The iPhone, Apple’s top-selling product, is set for a
refresh by October, while analysts predict another version of
the iPad next year. The Mac computer line is growing at a faster
pace than the personal-computer market.  All three are the fruit of Jobs’s attention to detail and
preoccupation with creating elegant devices that are reliable
and easy-to-use. The company Jobs  co-founded  with Steve Wozniak
in 1976 may face stiffer challenges in the coming years, when
strategic vision is set and products are okayed by his
successors, said Fred Anderson, former chief financial officer.  “Apple probably has its product pipeline set for the next
18 months, so Tim won’t have to worry about vision for that
long,” said Anderson, who resigned from Apple’s board in 2004
and is now  a managing director  at Elevation Partners. “But can
they come out with the next great iProduct. What’s going to come
out in 2013 and 2014? They need to start thinking about that.”  Nokia, RIM, Hewlett-Packard  Apple’s growth in smartphones has come at the expense of
rivals including Nokia Oyj and Research In Motion Ltd. Hewlett
Packard Co. has struggled to produce a viable competitor to the
iPad and is aiming to spin off its personal-computer unit.  Apple’s biggest competition may come from Google, the maker
of the Android mobile operating system, said Abhey Lamba, an
analyst at ISI Group in  New York . Google said on Aug. 15 it’s
spending $12.5 billion on Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. to
bulk up in smartphones.  “The new management team will have to prove itself in
terms of innovation and the next thing that will keep themselves
ahead of the competition,” Lamba said. “Investors are going to
be a little careful.”  After the announcement, Apple shares fell as much as 7
percent in extended trading. The stock had gained $2.58 to
$376.18 yesterday on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Futures trading
showed the announcement wiped as much as $52 billion from the
benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Cook’s Bench  Cook will get assistance from an executive team that
includes Jonathan Ive, senior vice president of industrial
design; Scott Forstall, who is in charge of the iOS
software that powers the iPhone and iPad; and Philip
Schiller, who leads product marketing.  Bob Mansfield heads Mac hardware engineering, and Chief
Financial Officer  Peter Oppenheimer  is tasked with overseeing
Apple’s more than $75 billion in cash and long-term holdings.  An area where Apple has room for growth is in China, where
sales rose more than six times to about $3.8 billion last
quarter from a year earlier.  “We’re just scratching the surface right now,” Cook said of
the region in a July 19 conference call. Apple has yet to land
the iPhone on China Mobile Ltd., the country’s largest mobile-
phone carrier.  Apple will soon start selling iCloud, which adds features
that let users access content on multiple Apple devices. The
service will automatically store photos, videos, and changes to
documents, calendars and contacts in Apple’s data centers, and
then sync it on all of a person’s other Apple devices.  ICloud Coming  That could attract new users who don’t want to bother with
uploading, downloading or syncing multiple devices, and spur
existing customers who may own one or two Apple devices to buy
into Apple’s more closed approach completely, said Walter C. Price, managing director of  RCM Capital Management.   “ICloud could be one of the biggest things in Apple’s
history,” said Price, an Apple shareholder in San Francisco. If
the service works as advertised, it could add $100 billion to
Apple’s market value.  Even under Jobs’s successors, Apple has a shot at becoming
a trillion-dollar company in five years, said Tony Ursillo, an
analyst at Loomis Sayles & Co. in  Boston . It can do that by
increasing sales about 15 percent a year for five years to $220
billion, which translates to about $50 billion in net income.  Getting there will hinge on whether Apple can maintain
market share for its flagship products. Shaw Wu, an analyst at
Sterne, Agee & Leach in San Francisco, said Apple can double the
size of its computer business, including Macs and iPads.  Steve’s Way  The two products together generated $11.2 billion last
quarter. If Apple expands its iPhone product line, which
generated $13.3 billion last quarter, that business could
triple, he said.  For Apple’s leadership team, maintaining confidence may be
toughest of all without Jobs as the visionary, said Guy Kawasaki, a former Apple manager and a founder of venture
investor  Garage Technology Ventures  in  Palo Alto ,  California .
Jobs routinely took risks that few executive teams or boards
would agree to support. Examples range from killing the iPod
Mini at the height of its popularity to building a chain of
retail stores even though other computer companies had failed.  “For so many decisions at the company, Steve said, ‘It’s
this way or this way,’” Kawasaki said. “And now it could be less
clear. The worst-case scenario is Apple deciding it’s going to
be a customer-driven company, and they start running focus
groups and market research to determine what customers want. If
anything, Steve has proven customers can’t articulate what they
want.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  