-- 
Jobs’s Apple Exit Follows Eight-Year Health Fight After Cancer Diagnosis

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/jobs-departure-follows-eight-year-health-fight-linked-to-pancreatic-cancer.html
Steve Jobs ’s exit from the top post
at  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the technology company he co-founded in 1976,
follows years of health struggles that began in 2003, when he
was diagnosed with a rare form of pancreatic cancer.  His  neuroendocrine tumor  wasn’t the worst-case scenario,
since it’s often less aggressive than other pancreatic
malignancies that can kill patients within a year. Jobs said on
Aug. 24 he “can no longer meet my duties and expectations” as
Apple’s chief executive officer. He will become chairman.  While neuroendocrine tumors can grow slowly and be treated
successfully with early removal, those that spread to other
organs, such as the liver, can be life-threatening. Although he
didn’t specify a reason, Jobs had a  liver transplant  in 2009, a
treatment that can prolong the lives of patients with his type
of cancer by an average of about five years. The effects of
cancer and a transplant can be difficult to overcome, even with
a less demanding job than CEO.  “It’s not at all surprising” that someone with Jobs’s
health history would step down,  said David Metz, associate
chief of gastroenterology at the University of Pennsylvania
Perelman School of Medicine in Philadelphia. “Whether
transplantation is a cure for neuroendocrine tumors or not
remains relatively controversial. In my opinion it’s a low-yield
approach.”  Five-Year Survival  No more than 60 percent of patients who had transplants for
this purpose survived five years after surgery, according to an
analysis Metz published in the World Journal of Gastroenterology
in 2005. He has said that his data was of varying quality and
that survival odds may be better today.  Metz and other doctors interviewed about Jobs for this
story haven’t treated him or seen his medical records. Apple
spokesman Steve Dowling declined to comment on Jobs’s health.  Jobs had been on medical leave since Jan. 17, his third
since 2004, when he first announced that he had a tumor removed.
Since then, interest and speculation about his health have been
constant as the chief executive has closely guarded his medical
information.  A patient who had a liver transplant after being diagnosed
with a neuroendocrine tumor might be suffering from any number
of complications, said  Simon Lo , director of endoscopy at
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in  Los Angeles .  The original cancer may have recurred, leading to typical
complications such as fatigue and pain, he said. Neuroendocrine
tumors often produce unusually large amounts of hormones, which
can disrupt digestion and other processes, he said.  Organ Rejection  To prevent organ rejection, transplant patients take
immune-suppressing drugs that can raise the risk of infections
and new cancers, Lo said.  Weight loss can also be caused by the tumor or its
treatment, said John Fung, chairman of the Digestive Disease
Institute at  Cleveland Clinic .  “He looks like he hasn’t recovered the weight he had
before his operation,” Fung said. “He may be mentally creative
still, but it’s hard to come up with the energy requirement of
daily living if you’re that malnourished.”  Many transplant patients, including those who’ve suffered
from neuroendocrine tumors, return to work and function well for
years, said Abhinav Humar, chief of the Division of
Transplantation at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center.
Jobs’s duties may be too demanding for such a patient, he said.  “He doesn’t have the same job you or I or the average
person who has had a liver transplant has,” he said in a
telephone interview.  New Drugs  Two new drugs won U.S. clearance as neuroendocrine tumor
treatments this year:  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Sutent and Novartis AG’s
Afinitor. Doctors in  Europe  are also using new radiation
treatments for the disease.  Neuroendocrine tumors are uncommon, with new cases
occurring in no more than five people in every 100,000 each
year, according to Rodney Hicks, professor of medicine and
radiology at the University of  Melbourne .  Doctors are still trying to understand these rare tumors,
Hicks said.  “There is a great heterogeneity in the behavior of these
tumors,” Hicks said in a telephone interview. “And within each
of those classes is also a range of aggressiveness from
effectively benign tumors right through to very aggressive,
malignant tumors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in  Boston  at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 Jkaufman17@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  