-- 
Jobs Erases $52 Billion From S&P 500 With Resignation as Apple Shares Drop

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-08-25T10:56:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/jobs-decision-to-resign-erases-52-billion-from-s-p-500-as-apple-tumbles.html
Steve Jobs’s decision to step down
as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s chief executive officer erased as much as
$52 billion from the benchmark gauge for U.S. stocks, futures
trading shows.  The September contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
slumped up to 0.6 percent after Jobs released his statement at
6:34 p.m. in New York yesterday. The measure’s total market
value was $9.34 trillion at the close of regular trading at 4
p.m., data compiled by Bloomberg show. Apple fell 5.1 percent.  Jobs, 56, who has battled cancer and had a  liver
transplant , presided over a 9,020 percent surge in the stock
since July 29, 1997, the day before the San Francisco Chronicle
broke the news that he would be named interim CEO. Over the same
period, the shares grew in value to $348.7 billion from $2.08
billion. Apple briefly surpassed Exxon Mobil Corp. this month as
the world’s most valuable company. Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook , 50, succeeded Jobs.  “The fortunes of Apple have been closely identified with
 Steve Jobs ,”  Matt McCormick , a  money manager  at Cincinnati-
based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., which oversees $4 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “When he is in, the stock outperforms. The
stock will languish until Cook can reassure investors and
demonstrate his value. It’s not the end for Apple, but the end
of a chapter.”  ‘Day Has Come’  Under Jobs, Apple’s equity value swelled after the company
introduced devices that revolutionized the computer, mobile
phone and digital music industries. His attention to detail and
emphasis on easy-to-use products helped Apple repel competition
from rivals as varied as Google Inc. and International Business
Machines Corp.  “I have always said if there ever came a day when I could
no longer meet my duties and expectations as Apple’s CEO, I
would be the first to let you know,” Jobs said in a letter to
the “Apple community” and the company’s board.
“Unfortunately, that day has come.”  Apple shares fell 5.1 percent to $357.10 at 7:59 p.m. in
New York yesterday, following the announcement. The drop erased
$17.7 billion from the stock’s value, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The stock dropped 4.1 percent to the equivalent of
$360.59 as of 12:52 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  Futures contracts on the  S&P 500  expiring in September rose
0.2 percent to 1,174.40 at 11:53 a.m. in  London .  Steve Wozniak  Jobs’s medical absences haven’t hurt the company’s share
price in the past. During his leave from August to October 2004,
the shares jumped 26 percent, compared with a 0.6 increase in
the S&P 500, data compiled by Bloomberg show. When he took time
off from January to June 2009, Apple climbed 66 percent,
compared with 10 percent for the index, the data show.  “He’s always going to be remembered, maybe for the next
100 years, as the greatest technology business leader of our
time,” Steve Wozniak, who co-founded Apple with Jobs, said in
an interview on Bloomberg television. “Company culture doesn’t
change overnight. He’s got tens of thousands of employees. The
quality of the products reflects how good they are, too.”  General Electric Co. lost $323 billion in market value
since Nov. 27, 2000, when the company said  Jeffrey Immelt  would
succeed  Jack Welch  as chairman and chief executive officer of
the world’s biggest maker of  jet engines , medical-imaging
equipment and power-plant turbines.  “Losing a visionary is really hard,” said Brian Barish,
Denver-based president of Cambiar Investors LLC, which oversees
about $8 billion. “It’s sad but it’s not a total shock. The
open-ended question is whether Apple is going to have the vision
to continue to develop its market position. Sometimes companies
lose their visionary and they continue to successfully do what
they’ve done in the past, but any changes in the paradigm are
harder.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  