-- 
Jobs ‘Reality-Distortion Capability’ Irreplaceable, Says Lee

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-25T06:52:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/jobs-reality-distortion-capability-irreplaceable-says-lee.html
Kai-fu Lee, former head of  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s operations in  China , comments on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s outlook
after  Steve Jobs  resigned as chief executive officer.  Lee, a former Apple employee who now runs his own venture
capital company in China, spoke today in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Beijing.  On outlook for Apple:  “I think the change today doesn’t materially change
anything. I think it does cause us to worry where his state of
health might be.  Jobs’ resignation won’t have ‘‘a major impact on the
competitive landscape. Apple is firmly established and
entrenched as a strong player.  ‘‘I think Apple is a strong company that can operate with
his limited participation and I think it will operate well even
without his participation.  ‘‘The only thing missing, or the only question is, will
they spot the next big paradigm shift?’’  On Jobs’ strengths:  ‘‘Steve’s magic is probably not with the suppliers, it’s
with Apple fans and Apple customers, and the media, and
shareholders of course, and also interestingly the entertainment
industry. That was the magic that made iTunes: the ability to
change the entire  music industry ! I think that so-called
reality-distortion capability is probably irreplaceable.”  “I worked for six years at Apple during Steve Jobs’
absence, and what I witnessed at that time was chaos. And it was
largely chaos in a company that’s lost its soul and taken over
by professional managers: some very good, some not very good. I
think the company has its soul back and Steve has brought a team
that I’m sure he believes can sustain the culture and the
company he started.”  --Stephen Engle, Mark Lee. Editor: Dave McCombs  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  