-- 
JPMorgan, Wells Said to Make Final Bids for Anglo Irish Loans

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-08-25T15:58:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/jpmorgan-wells-said-to-make-final-bids-for-anglo-irish-real-estate-loans.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  are among banks that made final bids to buy portions of
 Anglo Irish  Bank Corp.’s $9.65 billion of U.S. property loans,
according to three people with knowledge of the sales.  The lenders are looking to acquire pieces of the $4.52
billion of performing loans the Dublin-based bank is shedding,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
talks are private. Investor groups led by private-equity firms
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , working with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , and  Lone
Star Funds  also submitted offers for parts of the portfolio,
which include $5.13 billion of subperforming and non-performing
debt, the people said.  “Banks like Wells and JPMorgan can afford to pay more than
a nonbank for the performing loans,” said  Ben Thypin , director
of market analysis for Real Capital Analytics Inc., a property-
research firm in New York. “Private-equity firms like
Blackstone and Lone Star can bid aggressively on the
nonperforming pieces because they have a large workout
infrastructure in place.”  Anglo Irish is seeking to unload loans after being seized
by the Irish government in January 2009 amid a surge in souring
debt. The offering includes loans backed buildings from
Manhattan to Beverly Hills, California. The competition
underscores the appetite for real estate loans by private-equity
firms and banks looking to grow their assets even amid signs
that the global economic recovery is stalling.  Martha Kavanagh, a spokeswoman for Anglo Irish, declined to
comment on the bids, as did spokesmen for New York-based
JPMorgan and Wells Fargo.  Board to Discuss  Final bids were submitted this week and a winner is
expected to be chosen by early next week, according to the
people. Anglo Irish’s board of directors is likely to discuss
the final bids at a meeting today in advance of tomorrow’s
release of first-half results, according to a person familiar
with the matter, who asked not be identified because the
information is private.  JPMorgan and Wells Fargo may hold the loans for their own
books or package them for sale as bonds if investor demand for
commercial-mortgage backed securities, or CMBS, is sufficient,
said one of the people. Earlier this year, Wells Fargo bought a
$1.4 billion portfolio of 25 loans from Bank of Ireland Plc on
properties in Boston,  New York  and Washington, according to Alan Elias, a spokesman for the San Francisco-based bank. The lender
also bought part of Allied Irish Banks LLC’s $1 billion loan
portfolio, Elias said. Blackstone purchased the other piece.  Financing Possible  JPMorgan and Wells Fargo may finance the purchase of the
some pools, the people said. A syndicate of lenders including
Bank of America Corp.,  RBC Capital Markets , Citigroup Inc. and
Macquarie Bank Ltd. are also vying for the assignment, the
people said.  Eastdil Secured LLC and  FTI Consulting Inc. (FCN)  are advising
Anglo Irish on the sale, the people said. The portfolio has been
divided into eight pools, according to an offering document from
Eastdil.  Representatives of Blackstone,  Lone Star , Deutsche Bank,
Citigroup, Bank of America, RBC Capital and Macquarie declined
to comment on the deal. Calls to Eastdil weren’t returned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  