-- 
Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for August (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 
2011-08-25T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-august-text-.html
Following is the text from the
Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  Survey of Tenth District Manufacturing  Tenth District manufacturing activity continued to expand
modestly in August. Producers were slightly less optimistic
about future months, but were still positive overall. Price
indexes eased from the previous month, but firms on net still
planned to raise selling prices heading forward.  The month-over-month composite index was 3 in August, unchanged
from 3 in July and down from 14 in June. The composite index is
an average of the production, new orders, employment, supplier
delivery time, and raw materials inventory indexes.
Manufacturing activity slowed in nondurable goods factories,
while growth in factory activity increased in durable goods
producing plants, particularly for machinery, fabricated metal,
and electronic equipment products. Other month-over-month
indexes were mixed in August. The production index fell from 2
to -2, and the shipments index also moved into negative
territory. However, the new orders index rebounded after
dropping last month, and the employment and new orders for
export indexes also rose. Both inventory indexes fell for the
second straight month.  Most year-over-year factory indexes eased slightly, but remained
at solid levels. The composite year-over-year index edged down
from 24 to 21, and the production, new orders, shipments, and
order backlog indexes also fell. The employment index edged
lower from 24 to 23, but still remained at a fairly solid level.
In contrast, the capital expenditures index increased from 8 to
13, and the new orders for exports index also moved up slightly.
Both inventory indexes rose after falling in July.  Future factory indexes moderated somewhat in August, but
producers still remained fairly optimistic about activity later
this year. The future composite index eased from 14 to 9, and
the future production and shipments indexes also fell. The
future order backlog index moved into negative territory for the
first time in two years, and the employment index decreased from
17 to 12. However, the future new orders index was unchanged,
and the future capital expenditures index edged higher from 16
to 18. The future raw materials inventory index dropped from 4
to -6, and the future finished goods inventory index fell
further.  Price indexes continued their downward trend, after stabilizing
somewhat last month. The month-over-month raw materials price
index decreased from 39 to 28, and the finished goods price
index also fell. The year-over-year finished goods price index
moved lower, and the raw materials price index eased from 84 to
77. The future raw materials price index edged down from 60 to
53, and the future finished goods price index posted its lowest
level in nearly a year, indicating slightly fewer firms plan to
pass recent cost increases through to customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  