-- 
KBW Shorted Stock as Guaranty Financial Banker, Liquidation Trustee Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-08-25T20:26:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/kbw-shorted-stock-as-guaranty-financial-banker-liquidation-trustee-says.html
KBW Inc. (KBW)  was sued by the liquidation
trustee for  Guaranty Financial Group Inc. (GFGFQ) , who accused the
investment bank of using inside information about the  Texas 
lender and shorting its stock before it collapsed.  Kenneth Tepper, the trustee, is seeking to recover
$20 million in fees KBW obtained as Guaranty Financial’s
investment banker, profit it received from betting against the
company’s shares and other damages, according to a summons filed
yesterday in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan.  “KBW’s disregard of its contractual obligations and
illegal and improper use of GFG’s and the bank’s material, non-
public, confidential, inside information undermined GFG’s
efforts to raise capital, one of the very purposes for which KBW
had been engaged,” he said.  Guaranty Financial, based in Austin, Texas, filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in 2009 after its Guaranty Bank was closed
by regulators. Guaranty Financial hired KBW to help raise
capital before the bank failed with more than $14 billion in
assets, according to court papers.  Krista Eccleston, a spokeswoman for New York-based KBW,
declined to comment.  The trustee on Aug. 22 sued cardboard-box maker Temple-
Inland Inc., which spun off Guaranty Financial in 2007. Temple-
Inland caused Guaranty Financial’s collapse by “fraudulently
looting” the company of more than $1 billion, Tepper said. The
lawsuit claims Temple-Inland operated the bank as “a captive
finance arm” for its manufacturing operation and not as a
traditional bank, according to the complaint.  The case is Tepper v. Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc.,
652349-2011, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  