-- 
Kenya’s Finance Minister Uhuru Kenyatta Vows to Act on Monetary Stability

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-08-25T15:20:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/kenya-s-finance-minister-uhuru-kenyatta-vows-to-act-on-monetary-stability.html
Kenyan Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  said he’s in talks with the central bank about possible
measures to restore monetary stability after inflation surged to
more than triple the 5 percent target last month.  “We have to take some action toward that end, basically
just to ensure that we restore some kind of stability on the
monetary side,” Kenyatta told reporters in Nairobi, Kenya’s
capital, today. “We are in discussions with the central bank to
be able to deal with this particular issue” to ensure
“stability and normalcy returns,” he said, declining to
comment further.  Inflation in  East Africa ’s largest economy accelerated to
15.5 percent in July as drought pushed up food prices by 24
percent, according to the  statistics office . The shilling, which
reached the weakest in 17 years on Aug. 9, has slumped 13
percent against the dollar this year, boosting import costs.  The central bank kept its benchmark lending rate at 6.25
percent at the last monetary policy meeting in July, following
two increases. It then raised borrowing costs this month by
charging a penalty for lending from its overnight window to curb
 money supply  and speculation in the currency using borrowed
funds. Interbank rates soared to 24.25 percent yesterday, the
highest since July 1999, compared with 8.34 percent when the new
rules were announced on Aug. 12, according to the  central bank’s 
website.  The outlook for  Kenya ’s economy has come under “stress”
as farmers miss production targets and the higher cost of fuel
and energy affects industries, Kenyatta said.  Kenyatta projected in his June budget speech that economic
growth in Kenya would slow to 5.3 percent this year, compared
with 5.6 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   or
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   or
 barden@bloomberg.net . 