-- 
Korean Won Slips on Weak Consumer Sentiment, Fed Stimulus Doubts

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 
2011-08-25T06:47:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/korean-won-slips-on-weak-consumer-sentiment-fed-stimulus-doubts.html
South  Korea ’s won fell to a two-week
low as data showed  consumer confidence  sank to a five-month low
and better-than-expected durable-goods orders in the U.S. damped
speculation the  Federal Reserve  plans additional stimulus.  The Bank of Korea said today its sentiment index fell to 99
in August from 102 in July. A reading below 100 indicates people
are more pessimistic than the average between the first quarter
of 1999 and the second quarter of 2008. Central bankers from
around the world meet in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , this week for an
annual meeting that last year resulted in the Fed signaling a
second round of bond purchases to aid the U.S. economic recovery.  “Skepticism is growing as the meeting nears over whether
the Fed will announce new measures to boost the economy,” said
Lee Jung Hyun, a currency dealer with Industrial  Bank of Korea 
in Seoul. “Demand for dollars grew as players sought to prepare
in advance for a no-stimulus policy situation.”  The won fell 0.5 percent to close at 1,087.66 per dollar in
Seoul, after slipping 0.4 percent yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched 1.089.13 earlier,
the weakest level since Aug. 11.  U.S. durable-goods orders rose 4 percent in July, the most
in four months and twice as much as economists had predicted in
a Bloomberg News survey, a Commerce Department report showed
yesterday.  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said today the government
will take extra steps to stabilize prices before the Chuseok
holidays in September. Consumer prices increased 4.7 percent
from a year earlier in July, matching a March gain that was the
biggest since October 2008. Inflation is likely to be higher
than expected in August as vegetable and gold prices remain high,
Bahk said at a government meeting today.  Three-year  government bonds  advanced. The yield on the 3.5
percent debt due June 2014 declined one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 3.46 percent, according to Korea Exchange
Inc. prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  