-- 
National Bank of Canada Earnings Rise 15% on Gains From Asset Management

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-08-25T20:07:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/national-bank-of-canada-earnings-rise-15-on-gains-from-asset-management.html
National Bank of Canada (NA) , the
country’s sixth-largest bank, said third-quarter profit climbed
15 percent, bolstered by asset-management earnings.  Net income for the period ended July 31 rose to C$312
million ($316 million), or C$1.84 a share, from C$271 million,
or C$1.56, a year earlier, the Montreal-based bank said today.
It was the fourth straight quarter of earnings growth.  National Bank said asset-management profit increased 28
percent to C$37 million in the quarter because of higher assets
under management. The bank also cited commission revenue from
its brokerage business.  Before one-time items, National Bank earned C$1.72 a share.
That topped the C$1.71 average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  National Bank will consider additional asset-management
acquisitions to expand its client base outside of  Quebec , after
the lender completed its C$273 million purchase of Toronto-based
Wellington West Holdings Inc. last month.  “There’s still appetite for us to grow on  wealth
management ,” National Bank Chief Financial Officer Patricia Curadeau-Grou said today in a telephone interview. “We are in
good position to entertain looking at other possibilities, and
there are some.”  The Globe and Mail  reported  Aug. 21 that  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
may sell its Canadian retail brokerage, and said National Bank
was “in the running” as a potential suitor. Curadeau-Grou
declined to comment.  Consumer-banking net income rose 6 percent to C$168
million, while profit from financial markets increased 7.4
percent to C$101 million.  Financial Markets  “Financial markets disappointed for the first time in
recent memory on the back of weak trading and commission
revenues,”  John Aiken , a Barclays Capital analyst, wrote in a
note today after earnings were announced. “While we can hardly
fault National in the current environment, we think the market
had become quite used to NA bucking the trend on trading.”  National Bank fell C$1.95, or 2.7 percent, to C$70.40 in
trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The stock has risen 2.7
percent this year, the second-best performer in the 10-company
 Standard & Poor’s /TSX Banks Index.  Management Changes  Separately, the bank said thatCuradeau-Grou will become an
executive vice president of risk management as of Aug. 29. She
will become a strategic adviser to President and Chief Executive
Officer Louis Vachon in June 2012. Ghislain Parent will become
CFO.  National Bank is the second Canadian lender to report
third-quarter earnings that beat analysts’ estimates. Bank of
Montreal said Aug. 23 that profit rose 19 percent to C$793
million, or C$1.27 a share.  Royal Bank of Canada, the country’s largest bank, is
scheduled to release results tomorrow. Bank of Nova Scotia,
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and Toronto-Dominion Bank
report next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  