-- 
National Century’s Poulsen Loses Bid to Erase Fraud Conviction, Sentence

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-08-25T18:48:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/national-century-s-poulsen-loses-bid-to-erase-fraud-conviction-sentence.html
A federal appeals court upheld the
30-year prison term of Lance Poulsen, founder of National
Century Financial Enterprises Inc., as well as his convictions
at separate trials on obstruction of justice and fraud charges.  Poulsen was found guilty by jurors in federal court in
Columbus,  Ohio , in October 2008 of fraud, conspiracy and money
laundering for defrauding investors of $2.9 billion. Seven
months earlier, a separate jury convicted him of trying to bribe
the main witness against him. U.S. District Judge Algenon Marbley sentenced him to 30 years in the fraud case.  The 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati today
rejected Poulsen’s claims that Marbley made several improper
rulings at each trial and that his prison term was too long.
Poulsen had said he shouldn’t get a longer sentence than the
chief executive officers of WorldCom Inc. and Enron Corp., who
got 25 and 24 years, respectively.  “Poulsen cites a number of sentences given to those whom
he refers to as ‘the most notorious financial fraudsters in
corporate America,’” according to the opinion by a three-judge
panel of the appeals court. “Poulsen presents no coherent
argument as to why his sentence is substantively unreasonable.”  Poulsen, 68, is incarcerated at the Williamsburg Federal
Correctional Institution in  South Carolina , according to the
U.S. Bureau of Prisons  website . His release date is listed on
the site as Dec. 4, 2033.  Proper Loss  The appeals panel ruled that Marbley properly determined
the loss to investors as $2.89 billion, even though prosecutors
had said once to jurors that the loss was only “over $2
billion.”  “Poulsen fails to show that the district court committed
plain error or abused its discretion in allowing the prosecution
to make this statement in its closing argument without an
objection at trial from Poulsen,” according to the opinion.  The panel also rejected Poulsen’s arguments that the trial
should have been moved out of Columbus because of prejudicial
publicity against him, and that jurors at the fraud trial should
not have heard evidence from his earlier obstruction-of-justice
case. Such evidence properly showed Poulsen’s “consciousness of
guilt,” according to the panel.  The appellate panel also rejected Poulsen’s arguments that
Marbley should have instructed jurors that he may have been
entrapped by the government and that wiretapped evidence should
have been suppressed.  Poulsen’s attorneys William Terpening and Peter Anderson
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the ruling.  Poulsen’s 30-year term for the fraud case is concurrent
with his earlier 10-year term for the obstruction case.  Health-Care Loans  National Century, based in Dublin, Ohio, loaned money to
struggling health-care providers and claimed to secure loans
with payments that backed bonds sold to investors. Many
receivables were worthless, forcing the company to use new money
to pay investors.  National Century’s collapse hastened the bankruptcies of
275 hospitals, clinics and other health-care providers,
according to prosecutors. Victims included Pacific Investment
Management Co., the world’s largest bond fund. Pimco lost
$283 million and Credit Suisse Group AG lost $257 million, the
U.S. said.  The appeals are U.S. v. Poulsen, 08-4218 and 09-3658, 6th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Cincinnati).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  