-- 
N.Y. Gasoline Gains on Storm Threat, Gulf Coast on Power Outage

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-08-25T21:47:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/new-york-gasoline-gains-on-storm-threat-sunoco-refinery-fire.html
New York  Harbor gasoline
strengthened for a second day as Hurricane Irene threatened East
Coast refineries.  Gulf Coast  gasoline rose after  Texas City 
refineries briefly lost power.  Irene, a Category 3 major hurricane, is expected to grow as
it moves toward  North Carolina ’s Outer Banks this weekend before
reaching the Northeast as early as Aug. 28. Sunoco is operating
one of the crude units at its Philadelphia refinery at reduced
rates after a “small” fire, Thomas Golembeski, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail yesterday.  The premium for reformulated, 87-octane gasoline in New
York Harbor rose 1 cent to 5.13 cents a gallon versus futures
traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 3:34 p.m. in New
York, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prompt delivery
gained 9.95 cents to $3.0192 a gallon.  Irene may cause $11 billion in insured losses and $20
billion in overall economic losses due to lost hours at work,
power outages and the interruption of shipping and airline
traffic, according to estimates by Kinetic Analysis Corp.  The storm was 610 miles south of Cape Hatteras, North
Carolina, according to a notice from the National Hurricane
Center at 2 p.m. Miami time.  Gulf Outage  Reformulated 87-octane gasoline in the Gulf Coast rose 6.75
cents to a premium of 6.25 cents a gallon versus futures.  BP Plc, Marathon Petroleum Corp. and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) 
briefly lost power at their oil refineries in Texas City after
rain caused an electric “flashover” and power systems shut
down.  Refineries began flaring after the flashover caused an
almost instantaneous power outage, Bruce Clawson, director of
the Texas City, Texas, Emergency Management agency, said in a
telephone interview.  “They lost power for a second,” Clawson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  