-- 
News Corp. Phone Hacker Mulcaire Required to Name Names by Today in U.K.

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-26T22:33:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/news-corp-phone-hacker-mulcaire-required-to-name-names-by-today-in-u-k-.html
Glenn Mulcaire , the British private
detective who hacked celebrities’ voice mails for the News of
the World tabloid, was required to reveal by today for the first
time the names of the  News Corp. (NWSA)  employees who directed him.  Mulcaire lost a Court of Appeal ruling last month to avoid
saying who asked him to intercept phone messages left for six
public figures, and who received the transcripts. While 14
arrests have been made this year, the only person known to have
worked with Mulcaire is  Clive Goodman , the paper’s former royal
reporter who was jailed for hacking in 2007.  “It will be very interesting to see if anybody is named by
Mulcaire who hasn’t yet been arrested,” said  John Kelly , the
lawyer at Schillings in London whose lawsuit on behalf of
comedian Stephen Coogan led to a High Court order against
Mulcaire. “If this is the case, we would of course pass that
information to the police.”  News Corp. was forced this year to abandon a long-standing
claim that hacking had been limited to one “rogue” reporter,
after police evidence made public in dozens of celebrities’
lawsuits showed the practice was more widespread. London police
opened a new probe in January, leading to the recent arrests and
News Corp.’s decision to close News of the World and scrap a
planned bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   Deadline  The  High Court  ordered Mulcaire to provide the list of
names to Kelly by today, Kelly said. The list could be filed
with the court as late as Aug. 30, he said.  The Press Association reported today that Mulcaire’s
solicitor sent a letter to Coogan’s lawyers revealing the names
of News of the World staff who directed the private investigator
to hack phones. Sarah Webb, the solicitor, said she couldn’t
publically disclose the names of the employees, according to the
Press Association. Webb earlier declined to comment to Bloomberg
News.  The Court of Appeal backed the High Court ruling that
having the identities of journalists who instructed Mulcaire
could assist Coogan in proving there was a conspiracy at News of
the World and that hacking took place on an “industrial
scale.”  Mulcaire argued unsuccessfully that the identities weren’t
relevant since he has already admitted the privacy breaches.  Guilty Plea  The order applies to the celebrities whose phones Mulcaire
tapped when he pleaded guilty to hacking in November 2006,
including model  Elle Macpherson , according to the ruling.
Mulcaire also pleaded guilty to conspiring to hack the phones of
three members of the royal household.  Those arrested this year include former News of the World
editors Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson , former managing editor
Stuart Kuttner, former assistant editor Greg Miskiw, former news
editor Ian Edmondson, former features writer Dan Evans and
former chief reporter Neville Thurlbeck.  In January 2007, when Mulcaire was sentenced to six months
in jail, his lawyer told the court that the voice mails for
people other than the royal family hadn’t been intercepted for
Goodman, the royal reporter, “but for others in the same
organization,” according to court records in the case.  Mulcaire sued News Corp.’s U.K. newspaper unit earlier this
month. He claims a breach of contract because the company
stopped paying his legal bills, according to a person familiar
with the case who wasn’t authorized to speak about it publicly.  ‘Legitimate’ Work  Mulcaire, who started working for News of the World as
early as September 2001, didn’t have a desk at the newspaper’s
office and worked under an exclusivity agreement, according to
the judgment. He was hired to do “legitimate” work, the paper
said.  News International, based in  London , has apologized to
hacking victims and agreed to pay about 100,000 pounds
($163,490) to settle actress  Sienna Miller ’s claims and another
20,000 pounds to sports commentator  Andrew Gray . The company
faces a “test” trial in January, when a court will decide how
much the company should pay in damages to five other victims,
including actor Jude Law.  Coogan said he was notified by his mobile phone company in
2005 that someone had called the company pretending to be him
and seeking personal details. He later received calls from
people claiming they had dialed the wrong number and had voice
messages deleted before he listened to them, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  