-- 
Nigerian Stock Outlook Slashed at Vetiva as Global Concern Increases Risk

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-08-26T08:45:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/nigerian-stock-outlook-cut-at-vetiva-as-global-concern-ups-risk.html
Expectations for a second-half
recovery in Nigerian stocks have been cut at Vetiva Capital
Management Ltd. as sovereign-debt crises in Europe and U.S. and
concern the global economic recovery is faltering reduce demand
for riskier frontier-market assets.  “While we had expected a banks-led recovery to lead to a
return of 12 percent in the second half of the year, we are now
looking at a flat close as the most optimistic expectation,”
Pabina Yinkere, head of research at Vetiva, said in an Aug. 24
interview in Lagos, the commercial capital. “If there are
indications that the global economy will not perform, the first
thing foreign investors do is pull funds from riskier markets.”  Vetiva’s coverage was the most accurate on nine of the 20
Nigerian stocks it analyzed in team research in the past year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The West African nation’s All-Share Index has declined 11
percent this year, compared with an 18 percent drop in the  MSCI
Frontier Market (MXFM)  gauge, while the banking-stocks measure of the
10 biggest Nigerian lenders has retreated 22 percent. The
downgrade of the U.S.’s top credit rating by  Standard & Poor’s ,
weaker-than-estimated U.S. and European economic data and signs
that Italy and  Spain  may struggle to refinance debt have eroded
investor confidence in riskier assets. International investors
account for as much as 70 percent of daily volume on the
Nigerian bourse, according to data from the exchange.  Bank Rescue  The  Central Bank  of Nigeria, led by Governor Lamido Sanusi,
started a clean-up of the nation’s banking industry, in 2009,
firing the chief executives of eight of the country’s 24 lenders
after a debt crisis threatened to collapse the industry. It set
up Asset Management Corp. of  Nigeria , or Amcon, to buy non-
performing debt from banks and set a Sept. 30 deadline for the
eight lenders to recapitalize.  The measures saw the Nigerian index surge 19 percent last
year, making it the best performer in sub-Saharan Africa after
Kenya’s gauge, which rallied 34 percent.  Pension-fund administrators and other institutional
investors in Africa’s biggest oil producer will continue to see
fixed-income securities as a more favorable outlet for  asset
allocation , Vetiva economist Adedayo Idowu said.  The country’s 10.5 percent notes due 2014 have rallied 4.8
percent since reaching the lowest since Bloomberg started
tracking the debt on April 14, driving the yield down 186 basis
points, or 1.86 percentage point, to 10.9 percent by the close
in Lagos yesterday, according to data from the Financial Market
Dealers’ Association on Bloomberg.  Government Plans  Nigeria, where recurrent spending accounts for 74 percent
of the country’s 4.5 trillion-naira ($29 billion) budget, will
cut this expenditure and keep the  budget deficit  at 3 percent of
gross domestic product while increasing investment in
infrastructure, Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, a former
managing director of the  World Bank , said on Aug. 24.  The government of President Goodluck Jonathan plans to
invest more money in infrastructure projects including  power
plants , road and rail.  Vetiva has “buy” ratings on four Nigerian companies
including  Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc (FLOURMIL)  and Oando Plc, an  oil
company , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  