-- 
Obama Seeks Jobs Plan as U.S. Workingman Status Further Erodes

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-08-25T03:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/obama-seeks-jobs-plan-as-u-s-workingman-status-further-erodes.html
As President  Barack Obama  puts
together a new jobs plan to be revealed shortly after Labor Day,
he is up against a powerful force, long in the making, that has
gone virtually unnoticed in the debate over how to put people
back to work: Employers are increasingly giving up on the
American man.  If that sounds bleak, it’s because it is. The portion of
men who work and their median wages have been eroding since the
early 1970s.  For decades the impact of this fact was softened in many
families by the increasing number of women who went to work and
took up the slack. More recently, the housing bubble helped to
mask it by boosting the male-dominated construction trades,
which employed millions, Bloomberg BusinessWeek reports in its
Aug. 29 issue.  When real estate ultimately crashed, so did the prospects
for many men. The portion of men holding a job --- any job,
full- or part-time --- fell to 63.5 percent in July, hovering
stubbornly near the low point of 63.3 percent it reached in
December 2009. These are the lowest numbers in statistics going
back to 1948.  Among the critical category of prime working-age men
between 25 and 54, only 81.2 percent held jobs, a barely
noticeable improvement from its low point last year, and still
well below the depths of the 1982-83 recession, when employment
among prime-age men never dropped below 85 percent. To put those
numbers in perspective, consider that in 1969, 95 percent of men
in their prime working years had a job.  Getting Paid Less  Men who do have jobs are getting paid less. After
accounting for inflation, median wages for men between 30 and 50
dropped 27 percent--to $33,000 a year from 1969 to 2009,
according to an analysis by Michael Greenstone, a  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  economics professor who was chief
economist for Obama’s  Council of Economic Advisers .  “That takes men and puts them back at their earnings
capacity of the 1950s,” Greenstone says. “That has staggering
implications.”  What is going on here?  For one thing, women, who have made up a majority of
college students for three decades and now account for
57 percent, are adapting better to a data-driven economy that
values education and collaborative skills more than muscle. That
isn’t to say women have yet eclipsed men in the workplace.  They continue to earn about 16 percent less than men and
struggle against gender discrimination and career interruptions
as they disproportionately take time away from the job to raise
children. And both men and women have confronted job losses in
the weak economy.  Long Decline  In July, 68.9 percent of women aged 25-54 had jobs, vs.
72.8 percent in January 2008. (In 1969, however, fewer than half
did.) After a long decline in men’s work opportunities, the
recession worsened things with a sharp drop in male employment.
Unemployed men are now more likely than women to be among the
long-term jobless.  The economic downturn exacerbated forces that have long
been undermining men in the workplace, says Lawrence Katz, a
Harvard professor of labor economics. Corporations have cut
costs by moving manufacturing jobs, routine computer programming,
and even simple legal work out of the country.  The production jobs that remain are increasingly mechanized
and demand higher skills. Technology and efforts to reduce the
number of layers within corporations are leaving fewer middle-
management jobs.  Moderately Skilled Men  The impact has been greatest on moderately skilled men,
especially those without a college education, though even men
with bachelor’s degrees from less selective schools are
beginning to see their position erode.  “There’s really been this polarization in the middle,” Katz
says, as men at the top of the education and income scale see
their earnings rise while those in the middle gravitate downward.  For generations, American workers kept up with
technological change by achieving higher levels of education
than their parents. High school education became the norm as the
country progressed from an agrarian society to an industrial one.
After World War II, increasing numbers of Americans went to
college as the economy became more complex.  But for reasons not fully understood, college graduation
rates essentially stopped growing for men in the late 1970s,
shortly after the  Vietnam War  ended, perhaps in part because
draft deferments were no longer an inducement.  College Degrees  Women, on the other hand, continued to pursue college
degrees in greater numbers and have been more responsive to the
changing economy in other ways, taking many of the nursing and
technician positions in the expanding health-care industry and
making greater headway in service jobs.  While unemployment is an ordeal for anyone, it still
appears to be more traumatic for men. Men without jobs are more
likely to commit crimes and go to prison.  They are less likely to wed, more likely to divorce, and
more likely to father a child out of wedlock. Ironically,
unemployed men tend to do even less housework than men with jobs
and often retreat from family life, says W. Bradford Wilcox,
director of the National Marriage Project at the  University of
Virginia .  The long-term fix is simple to spell out and tough to
achieve: getting more men to attend college and improving the
skills of those who don’t. Reducing financial barriers to higher
education would be a start. But there isn’t much political
appetite for spending the billions it would take to make that
happen.  Budget Cuts  Even once-sacred  Pell Grants  are on the block as Washington
looks for budget cuts. A strapped public education system that
leaves many young men unprepared for the workplace, let alone
college, doesn’t help.  It’s noteworthy but not especially comforting to know that
this is not just an American problem. The same gender
differences in college attendance and employment are emerging in
rich societies around the world.  Grappling with these intractable problems won’t likely be
Obama’s top priority. He is under pressure to do something that
will be felt now, not a generation from now. The longer people
who are currently unemployed remain out of work, the more their
skills will atrophy and the greater the risk of a cohort of men-
-and women--who become permanently detached from the workplace.  Anything that raises employment overall would help. Obama
is expected to propose tax incentives for employers to hire
workers, a reduction in payroll taxes employers pay, and
spending on infrastructure.  Labor-Intensive Projects  Money for labor-intensive projects, such as retrofitting
buildings for energy conservation or refurbishing aging schools,
would be especially effective in putting men back to work in
construction, though  Washington  is likely in no mood to pay for
that either.  Other ideas that economists have proposed are geared toward
keeping men with diminished opportunities from drifting out of
the workforce altogether.  They include reducing unemployment benefits extensions for
those who have been out of work for a year or more, to give
those who are getting by on an unemployment check a stronger
incentive to take a job, even if it’s not the most desirable one.  Others have proposed modifying the Social Security
disability insurance system so that it is no longer an all-or-
nothing proposition and instead subsidizes employers for hiring
workers with partial disabilities. Since 1970, the fraction of
25- to 60-year-old men on disability has more than doubled, from
2.4 percent to 5 percent. Once they begin receiving disability
payments, few return to work.  If there is any upside to recessions, it’s that they tend
to expose deep problems that go ignored or at least overlooked
in better times. The short-term fixes the president proposes may
provide much needed relief for the millions of people looking
for a job.  The danger is that the fixes will work just well enough to
let us pretend--for a while longer--that the real problem is no
longer there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 