-- 
Ochocinco Offers to Pay $20,000 NFL Fine Handed to Rookie for Hit on Him

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-08-25T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/ochocinco-offers-to-pay-20-000-nfl-fine-handed-to-rookie-for-hit-on-him.html
New England ’s Chad Ochocinco offered
to pay the $20,000 fine levied by the  National Football League 
against Tampa Bay Buccaneers rookie Mason Foster for a helmet
hit during a preseason game.  Foster was breaking up a pass play to Ochocinco when he
appeared to hit the Patriots wide receiver in the helmet with
his shoulder and elbow during the Bucs’ 31-14 preseason loss on
Aug. 18.  “It’s a lot, but it’s all good,” Foster told the Tampa
Tribune when he learned of the fine yesterday. “I’ll pay it and
keep on going. It won’t change the way I play.  ‘‘I’m going to keep playing football the way I know how to
play football,” Foster, who earned a reputation as a hard
hitter at the University of  Washington , told the Tribune.  Ochocinco addressed NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  in a
Twitter message, saying he didn’t agree with the fine and would
reimburse Foster. The league told Ochocinco NFL rules prevent
him from paying the fine, according to the Tribune.  Last October, the NFL said it would hand out fines and
suspensions for flagrant hits that endanger the safety of other
players, especially if the hits connected with the head. The
league has undertaken studies to research the effects of
concussions during players’ lifetimes.  Among the first to be disciplined were Pittsburgh Steelers
linebacker James Harrison, who was fined $75,000, and Atlanta
Falcons cornerback Dunta Robinson and New England Patriots
safety Brandon Meriweather, who were docked $50,000 each,
according to the NFL.  Harrison, who hit two Cleveland players hard enough to
sideline them with head injuries two days ago, was fined $75,000
because he was a repeat offender, the NFL said. Harrison had
been fined $5,000 for a roughing the passer call against
Tennessee quarterback  Vince Young  on Sept. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  