-- 
Oil Trades Near One-Week High in London on Fed Speculation, U.S. Supplies

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-08-25T12:41:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/oil-rises-to-one-week-high-in-london-on-fed-speculation-u-s-supply-drop.html
Oil traded near its highest in a
week in London on speculation that the  Federal Reserve  may
announce new measures to stimulate the economy, and after U.S.
crude inventories declined.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may outline steps
to bolster the world’s largest economy in a speech tomorrow.
Crude inventories fell for a second week last week, slipping by
about 2 million barrels, U.S. government data showed yesterday.
Saudi Arabia may cut production if a resumption of Libyan
exports pushes the price of  Brent crude  down toward $90 a
barrel, according to the Centre for Global Energy Studies.  “ Risk aversion  has decreased and that’s helped oil,” said
 Hannes Loacker , an analyst at Raiffeisen Bank International AG
in Vienna and the fifth most-accurate forecast of Brent prices
in the eight quarters to June. “The strength of Brent is a bit
of a surprise. We should see substantial Libyan volumes come
back by the middle of next year.”  Brent oil for October settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange gained as much as $1.05 a barrel, or 1
percent, to $111.20, the highest price since Aug. 17. It was at
$110.73 a barrel at 1:40 p.m. London time. The European
benchmark contract was at a premium of $25.06 to U.S. futures,
down from a record $26.21 on Aug. 19.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , crude for October
delivery was at $85.67 a barrel, up 51 cents. Yesterday, the
contract lost 28 cents to $85.16, the lowest close since Aug.
22. Prices have gained 18 percent from a year ago.  U.S. Stockpiles  U.S. crude inventories decreased 0.6 percent to 351.8
million barrels in the week ended Aug. 19, according to the
Energy Department. Supplies were forecast to increase 1.75
million barrels, based on the median estimate from analyst
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Gasoline supplies climbed 1.36 million barrels to 211.4
million, as imports rose and refineries boosted processing rates
to the highest in five weeks, the report showed.  Libya, holder of  Africa ’s largest crude reserves, will
probably restore production to about 300,000 barrels a day over
the next two to three months and then to 500,000 a day by the
end of the year, Julian Lee, senior energy analyst, said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  Saudi Arabia  has boosted
supplies this year by about 1 million barrels a day partly in
response to the suspension of exports from Libya.  Price Forecasts Cut  Standard Chartered  Plc reduced its third-quarter oil-price
forecasts on “weaker than expected” demand in the U.S. and
speculation that supply disruptions in the North Sea and West
Africa will end. Brent may average $112 a barrel, down from an
earlier estimate of $115, London-based analyst Helen Henton said
in a report yesterday. New York crude may average $90, down from
Standard Chartered’s prior estimate of $98.  Earlier this week, BNP Paribas SA cut its 2012 price
Predictions, and Morgan Stanley said a resumption in exports
from  Libya  would trigger a reduction of its estimates.  U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 1.1 percent annual
pace in the second quarter, down from the 1.3 percent that the
government estimated last month, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of economists before a Commerce Department report
tomorrow. Bernanke will deliver a speech to central bankers
tomorrow at a meeting in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  The U.S. East Coast region, which has 10 operating
refineries with a capacity of 1.21 million barrels a day and
accounts for 7.1 percent of total U.S. operating capacity,
braced itself for Hurricane Irene, the strongest Atlantic storm
to threaten the U.S. since 2005.  Irene hit the Bahamas on a course that may take it near
 North Carolina  this weekend and New England next week. The
Category 3 hurricane packed maximum sustained winds of 115 miles
(185 kilometers) per hour as it churned 735 miles south of Cape
Hatteras on the North Carolina coast, the U.S. National
Hurricane Center said in an advisory at 5 a.m. Miami time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  