-- 
Home Short Sales Increase as Banks ‘More Realistic’ on Market

-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 
2011-08-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/home-short-sales-jump-in-u-s-as-banks-more-realistic-on-property-market.html
U.S. homes nearing foreclosure
accounted for 12 percent of total sales in the second quarter as
banks agreed to more transactions at prices below the outstanding
mortgage balance,  RealtyTrac Inc . said.  The proportion of sales of homes in default or scheduled
for auction rose from 10 percent a year earlier and was little
changed from the first quarter, the Irvine, California-based
information company said today in a report. Most of those were
short sales, or transactions for less than the mortgage debt,
according to RealtyTrac.  An increase in short sales, along with a shorter average
time to sell such homes and bigger discounts relative to normal
deals, indicate the market is clearing distressed properties
more efficiently, Chief Executive Officer James J. Saccacio said
in the statement. Total pre-foreclosure deals rose 19 percent
from the first quarter, while slipping 12 percent from a year
earlier, when a federal tax credit pumped up demand.  “This is a glimmer of hope that lenders are getting more
realistic,”  Rick Sharga , senior vice president of RealtyTrac,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s a win for borrowers who
avoid foreclosure, buyers who get a house in better condition
and banks that lose less money, which is also a win for
taxpayers.”  245 Days  Pre-foreclosure homes took an average of 245 days to sell
after receiving the initial foreclosure notice, down from 256
days in the first quarter.  The average sale price was $192,129, a discount of 21
percent relative to non-distressed homes. Discounts averaged 17
percent in the first quarter and 14 percent a year earlier,
according to RealtyTrac.  Sales of distressed properties, which also include homes
seized by banks, totaled 265,087, down 11 percent from the
second quarter of 2010 and up 6 percent from the previous three
months.  The average price of all distressed homes sold in the
second quarter was $164,217, down less than 1 percent from the
previous period and almost 5 percent from a year earlier. Such
properties sold at an average 32 percent discount, compared with
a 27 percent discount in the first quarter.  RealtyTrac sells default data from more than 2,200 counties
representing 90 percent of the  U.S. population .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  