-- 
On Bratton, Scotland Yard Uncovers the Last Global Taboo: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-25T00:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/on-bratton-scotland-yard-uncovers-the-last-global-taboo-view.html
David Cameron, the U.K. prime
minister, had a bright idea: Hire the best person for the job.
In the wake of the News Corp. phone-hacking scandal, he
reportedly floated the idea of naming William Bratton, the
former New York and  Los Angeles  police chief, to head Scotland
Yard.  The suggestion was hit with a flash-mob of criticism and
was quashed by Theresa May, the home secretary, who cited
national security and reminded Cameron that only British
citizens should be eligible for the post. Her move was seconded
by, well, lots of other people, including, not surprisingly, the
police unions.  The prime minister, who lacks the authority to appoint the
 Metropolitan Police  commissioner, took Bratton on as an unpaid
adviser. But the incident exposed globalization’s last taboo:
the idea that a country could import a talented foreigner to
lead a government entity.  What would be so odd about having Bratton, now head of
Kroll, an international security firm, run the  London  police
with an American accent, especially given the London riots?  Think about it: we know that goods and ideas cross more
borders more quickly and often than ever before. We are
connected, entwined, linked. Talent travels, whether it’s an
Indian engineer at  Google Inc. (GOOG) ; a Brazilian-Lebanese chairman of
Nissan-Renault, a Japanese-French automobile confection; or a
Chinese center in the N.B.A.  More relevant is the fact that sensitive public jobs are
increasingly entrusted to foreigners, even if they’re only
“consultants.” David Kilcullen, an Australian, helped forge
American counterinsurgency strategy in Iraq and  Afghanistan . The
former head of security at Ben-Gurion airport in  Tel Aviv , Rafi Ron, was brought in to shore up  Boston ’s Logan Airport.  Jay Walder , an American, was the managing director of London’s
transportation authority, then was hired to manage New York’s,
and is now on the way to do the same job in  Hong Kong . When it
comes to cities, it’s hard to think of a more sensitive job.  We have no particular brief for Mr. Bratton, though one
imagines that overseeing police departments in  New York  and Los
Angeles -- enormous, complicated cities with large foreign
populations -- would have prepared him well for the London job.
What we do believe is that skill and intellect are exportable
commodities and that right now the public sector is largely a
closed market. For governments at all levels, and in all parts
of the world, the most effective route to reform may be to
import strong, innovative managers.  We have no illusions that this will be an easy sell.
Questions of divided loyalties and hurt national pride would
have to be addressed, as would citizenship regulations in many
places.  And yet breaking the Bratton Barrier would be a good thing,
especially in the context of security, a transnational threat if
ever there was one. “Why shouldn’t someone who has been a
proven success overseas be able to turn around a force at
home?”  David Cameron  asked Parliament. Although the answer was
harsh, his question was the right one.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 