-- 
Honda Adds Ohio Wind Tunnel Amid $355 Million Plant Upgrades

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-08-25T23:19:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/honda-adds-wind-tunnel-in-ohio-amid-355-million-in-auto-plant-upgrades.html
Honda Motor Co. is making $355
million of upgrades at plants in Ohio where it opened its first
U.S. wind tunnel, seeking productivity and fuel-economy gains
for models designed and built in  North America .  The Ohio projects for Japan’s first company to make cars in
the U.S. include $166 million of improvements to its factory in
East Liberty and a $64 million stamping press at its Marysville
plant, said  Ron Lietzke , spokesman for the company’s assembly
unit. Honda wouldn’t provide the cost of the wind tunnel or
other additions to its engineering center in Raymond.  “The driver of the projects is to improve all our
characteristics,” Lietzke said in an interview, declining to
say whether the changes will lead to greater output. “If we end
up increasing production capacity as a result, that’s fine,” he
said, without elaborating.  Honda is refurbishing factories as it prepares to restore
full North American production next month after parts shortages
triggered by  Japan ’s March earthquake left Honda and Acura
dealers short of models. The Tokyo-based company’s U.S. sales
fell 2.6 percent this year through July, and market share shrank
to 9.3 percent from 10.6 percent as industrywide deliveries rose
11 percent.  Output at Honda’s auto-assembly plants in the U.S.,  Canada 
and Mexico dropped 26 percent to 559,981 through July from
754,807 a year ago, according to company data.  Efficiency  Having opened Marysville in 1982, before  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , Nissan Motor Co. and other Asian companies began making
cars in the U.S., Honda’s North America engineering and
production units are among the region’s most sophisticated, said
Jeffrey Liker, professor of engineering at the  University of
Michigan  in  Ann Arbor .  “By the most common productivity metrics, they’re among
the most efficient,” said Liker, who studies automotive-
assembly operations. “They have a history of developing
exceptional people and actually keeping them. That allows them
to accumulate knowledge and continue to learn.”  The Raymond R&D center, near the Marysville and East
Liberty plants, is Honda’s main vehicle-development facility for
the Americas. It’s responsible for designing and engineering the
Pilot and Acura MDX sport-utility vehicles, Ridgeline pickup,
Acura ZDX wagon and TL sedan, and North American version Odyssey
minivan, all of which are built only in the region.  Fuel-Economy Push  Boosting fuel-economy on those models to meet tightening
regulations is also its responsibility, Frank Paluch, senior
vice present of Honda R&D Americas, said in an interview this
month.  Last month, carmakers agreed to double the Corporate
Average Fuel Economy, or CAFE, to 54.5 mpg by 2025. The first
phase for the industry is to reach a U.S. average of 35.5 mpg by
2016.  “We are very aware of those targets and where our
responsibility is for CAFE within the lineup. There are set
plans how to meet them,” Paluch said. “By the 2016 model
introductions, we’ll target about an 18 percent improvement,
specifically for our areas.”  Improvements will come through enhanced engine and
transmission performance, lighter-weight materials, and smaller
and more-efficient components, said Paluch.  Such “evolutionary” changes were used when  Ohio  engineers
revamped the  Odyssey  last year, raising fuel economy 17 percent,
he said. Hitting the 2025 goal is a “bit more gray,” he said.  “If consumers are buying a lot more hybrids, we can easily
meet those requirements,” Paluch said. “If consumers don’t buy
a lot more hybrids or don’t buy more battery-electric vehicles,
we’re going to have to think about other ways to meet those
goals.”  Wind Tunnel  Honda hasn’t previously acknowledged the Ohio wind tunnel
that was built in late 2010. It will help engineers improve
vehicle aerodynamics for further efficiency gains, said John Dirrig, a manager and chief engineer at the Raymond center.  “The ability to do that type of analysis as early as
possible in the development phase of new vehicles is a big
deal,” he said.  Toyota, Nissan and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  don’t have wind
tunnels in the U.S. Toyota’s Technical Center in Ann Arbor,
 Michigan , uses one nearby operated by affiliate Denso Corp.,
said Bruce Brownlee, a Toyota spokesman.  Honda’s is a “half-scale” tunnel, intended for early
prototypes.  ‘Not Just a Big Fan’  Such a device may cost $25 million, while a full-size wind
tunnel is at least $100 million, said  Frank Ohlemacher , project
manager at the Ohio State University’s Center for Automotive
Research in Columbus. “This is sophisticated equipment, not
just a big fan,” Ohlemacher said.  Honda won’t say how much it’s invested in Raymond, where
more than 1,000 engineers work at desks in a central hall the
length of 2.5 football fields, or 750 feet. It also has a crash-
test center and laboratories to test electromagnetic
interference and the effect of heat, rain and cold on vehicles.  Along with the Ohio upgrades, Honda said in March it’s
spending $94 million to modify its Lincoln, Alabama, plant that
builds Odysseys and Pilots. This month Honda said it will build
an $800 million plant in central  Mexico  that will make 200,000
small cars a year after it opens in 2014.  Honda’s American depositary receipts, representing one
ordinary share, rose 69 cents, or 2.3 percent, $31.30 yesterday
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Its U.S. unit is
based in Torrance,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  