-- 
Hong Kong’s July Exports Climb Less-Than-Estimated 9.3%

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-08-25T08:47:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/hong-kong-s-july-exports-climb-less-than-estimated-9-3-1-.html
Hong Kong ’s exports grew by less
than economists estimated in July as a drop in sales to the U.S.
countered higher shipments to Asian markets.  Overseas sales increased 9.3 percent from a year earlier to
HK$286 billion ($37 billion), the government said on its website
today. That compared with a 9.2 percent gain in June and the
median 14.2 percent estimate of 11 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  China,  Taiwan  and  South Korea  posted export growth that was
higher than economists estimated last month as regional trade
rebounded from the disruption caused by the earthquake and
nuclear crisis in  Japan  in March. The outlook for overseas
shipments is deteriorating as expansion in the U.S. and  Europe 
falters and the euro zone’s sovereign debt crisis deepens.  “The end of Japan supply side disruptions has helped give
an upside boost to all export-reliant economies in  Asia ,
including Hong Kong,” Donna Kwok, an economist at HSBC Holdings
Plc. in Hong Kong, said before today’s data release. “But Hong
Kong’s exports in the second half of this year will unlikely be
as strong in the first half because of softness in both U.S. and
European demand.”  Morgan Stanley last week cut its forecast for global
growth this year to 3.9 percent, down from a previous forecast
of 4.2 percent, citing an “insufficient” policy response to
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, weakened confidence and the
prospect of fiscal tightening. Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. reined in forecasts for U.S.
expansion in the past week and UBS AG yesterday cut its estimate
for Europe’s expansion to 1 percent from 2 percent in 2012.  China  Slowdown  Hong Kong’s imports increased 10.2 percent last month from
a year earlier to HK$322 billion after an 11.5 percent gain in
June, leaving a trade deficit of HK$35.9 billion, today’s report
showed. The median forecasts in Bloomberg surveys were for a
14.9 percent gain in imports and a trade deficit of HK$40.5
billion.  Exports to China, the biggest destination for shipments
through Hong Kong, rose 4.8 percent in July from a year earlier
after climbing 6 percent in June and 8.8 percent in May, the
government said.  Exports to the U.S., the second-biggest market, dropped 3.7
percent from a year earlier, the third straight monthly decline,
government data showed. Sales to India climbed 49 percent and
shipments to Taiwan rose 23.4 percent.  ‘Grimmer’ Second Half  Victor Fung, chairman of  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the world’s
biggest supplier of clothes and toys to retailers including Wal-
Mart Stores Inc., said on Aug. 17 he could feel “the lingering
presence of credit risks in Europe and the U.S.” Consumer
confidence in Europe and the U.S. “has not fully recovered,”
he said.  Shipping markets may be “grimmer” in the second half of
this year than the first half because of the weakening global
economy, the launch of new ships and low cargo rates, China
Business News reported today, citing Wei Jiafu, chairman of
China Ocean Shipping (Group) Co.  -- With assistance from Michael Munoz in Hong Kong. Editors:
Nerys Avery, Lily Nonomiya  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  