-- 
OPEC to Raise Exports as IEA Deliveries End, Oil Movements Says

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-08-25T15:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/opec-to-raise-exports-as-iea-deliveries-end-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will increase crude shipments through to the
middle of September as a program of emergency supply release by
consumer-nations ends, according to Oil Movements.  Exports will rise 0.1 percent to 22.69 million barrels a
day in the four weeks to Sept. 10, the Halifax, England-based
tanker-tracker said today in a report. That compares with 22.66
million a day in the month to Aug. 13. Shipments typically
decline at this time of year as refiners undertake seasonal
maintenance. The data excludes  Ecuador  and Angola.  “It’s moving against trend,” Roy Mason, Oil Movements’
founder, said by telephone. “Middle East sailings west are
going down as they do normally, but relatively slowly, and east-
bound is going up sharply. It’s possibly connected with the end
of the stock release.”  The  International Energy Agency  announced on June 23 the
offer of 60 million barrels of oil from its reserves to
compensate for the loss of exports from  Libya . Last month the
Paris-based agency, which advises 28 industrialized nations,
said it wouldn’t extend the program.  Shipments from Middle Eastern producers, including non-OPEC
members Oman and Yemen, will be 0.2 percent higher at 17.39
million barrels a day in the four weeks to Sept. 10, according
to Oil Movements estimates.  Crude on board tankers will average 467.83 million barrels
in the four-week period, down 1.6 percent from 475.61 million in
the period to Aug. 13, the researcher said.  Oil Movements calculates shipments by keeping a tally of
tanker-rental agreements. Its figures exclude crude held on
board ships as floating storage.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador,  Iran , Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya,  Nigeria ,  Qatar ,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. The organization will meet next on Dec.
14 in Vienna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  