-- 
Los Angeles Gasoline Premium Widens to Highest Since February

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-08-25T20:27:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/los-angeles-gasoline-premium-widens-to-highest-since-february.html
California-blend gasoline in  Los
Angeles  strengthened to its highest premium versus futures since
February after the state Energy Commission said inventories of
the fuel dropped 16 percent last week.  The premium for Carbob in Los Angeles rose 3.75 cents to
23.5 cents above gasoline futures traded on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 2:23 p.m. East Coast time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The fuel hasn’t traded that high
above futures since Feb. 17.  Carbob stockpiles in  California  fell to 5.25 million
barrels in the week ended Aug. 19 from a week earlier as
refiners prepared for the switch to winter-blend gasoline.
That’s the lowest inventory level for the fuel in nine months.  Carbob production dropped 12 percent to 5.85 million
barrels, the lowest level since March.  California-blend gasoline in San Francisco strengthened
2.75 cents to a premium of 26 cents over futures.  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP)  started a multiproducts
pipeline in northern California yesterday that was shut after a
propane tank nearby caught fire. The fire went out after burning
the remaining fuel in the tank, Chelsea Fox, a spokeswoman for
the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, said
in a telephone interview today.  The premium for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in
 Portland , Oregon, rose 2.75 cents to a premium of 14 cents
versus futures.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  said it was restoring a boiler at the
Anacortes refinery in  Washington  that was shut last week after a
steam leak. The 125,000-barrel-a-day refinery completed repairs
on the boiler and “other units at the refinery have continued
to operate,” Mike Marcy, a spokesman for the San Antonio-based
company, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  