-- 
Most Junior Bankers Feel ‘Disappointment’ With Pay, Aspire to Buyout Jobs

-- B y   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 
2011-08-25T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/most-junior-bankers-feel-disappointment-with-pay-aspire-to-buyout-jobs.html
Junior investment bankers to  Wall
Street : Take this job and shove it.  While young bankers said they enjoy their jobs, most are
dissatisfied with pay and hope to leave the field, with almost
60 percent saying they want to work in private equity, according
to a survey released yesterday by headhunting firm Capstone
Partnership.  “It’s been a rough couple of years for them,” Rik
Kopelan, managing partner at New York-based Capstone, said in a
phone interview. “Fewer and fewer plan on making it a career,
because they’re working these long hours and not getting paid as
well as they were.”  One investment banker who participated in the survey
described a breach of the “tacit understanding” that he or she
would be well compensated. Considering “the sacrifice I make in
my personal life (100-hour work weeks, canceled vacations,
etc.), this business has to be more rewarding,” the person
said, according to Capstone.  That banker isn’t alone. Of about 2,000 associates and vice
presidents in their first three years, 67 percent identified
“disappointment with compensation” as one of the biggest
reasons to leave the field. Almost the same percentage described
their jobs as “satisfactory,” according to Kopelan.  More than 80 percent said they don’t believe that their
compensation is mainly predicated on performance. Instead,
Kopelan said, young investment bankers worry that it’s “based
on the profitability of the firm, based on how powerful the
group heads were, based on capricious things.”  Last year, according to New York State Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli , Wall Street paid out $20.8 billion in cash bonuses,
instead of the $22.5 billion a year earlier.  Kopelan said that his firm has recently placed people at
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  UBS AG. (UBSN)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  