-- 
How to Fight the Scourge of Long-Term Unemployment: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-25T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/how-president-obama-can-fight-the-scourge-of-long-term-unemployment-view.html
President  Barack Obama , as part of
his contribution to the various job-creation plans politicians
will unveil after Labor Day, is looking at ways to target one of
the most intractable legacies of the economic slump: the long-
term unemployed.  Long-term joblessness is reaching epic proportions. As of
July, about 6.2 million job-seekers, or 4 percent of the U.S.
labor force, had been out of work for more than six months --
close to the highest level in more than six decades (see chart).  The skills of the long-term unemployed are atrophying and
their motivation waning, making them increasingly likely to end
up as wards of the state, collecting various forms of government
assistance.  Disability rolls alone were up 19 percent from their pre-
recession level in July to  8.4 million  people, at an average
annual cost per beneficiary of about $13,000. The mounting
burden will deplete the Disability Insurance Trust Fund by 2018,
 according  to the  Congressional Budget Office .  It would be folly to think the government can reverse all
the damage, much of which is the tragic and unavoidable result
of a financial crisis and a deep recession. Still, stimulative
policies sharply focused on employment can help. Economists
estimate that each new job adds, on average, roughly $60,000 to
the country’s annual output. About $23,000 of that goes toward
reducing the federal  budget deficit  through higher  tax revenue 
and decreased spending on the social safety net.  Intangible Benefits  The intangible benefits of employment can also have a
quantifiable value: Economists David Blanchflower and Andrew Oswald, for example, have  estimated  that the increased happiness
associated with having a job is worth about an extra $60,000 a
year to the individual.  The challenge for the president is to find the most cost-
effective way to create the needed jobs, at a time when the
political winds are blowing hard against new federal spending.
The available evidence suggests that the best approach would be
a combination of programs targeting the long-term jobless with
those seeking to boost employment more broadly.  Among targeted programs, some of the most promising pay the
wages of new hires as they get on-the-job training. One such
effort in  Georgia , called Georgia Works, allows recipients to
receive as much as eight weeks of part-time, private-sector
experience, paid for by the government. The president’s advisers
are  reportedly  considering a version of the Georgia initiative,
which focuses broadly on the jobless but could be aimed at the
long-term unemployed.  Minnesota  Program  While economists have yet to do a proper assessment of the
Georgia program, a similar and more generous effort in Minnesota
in the 1980s -- the Minnesota Emergency Employment Development
program, which covered as much as six months of full-time work -
- had an estimated cost per job of $34,000. At that rate, a
program could help one in 10 long-term unemployed for about $21
billion, or for about $7 billion after accounting for taxes paid
and federal program savings.  Specialized programs aren’t perfect. They have limited
impact, require a lot of time to sort out qualified candidates,
and can be seen as unfair to those who are left out. Such
programs also tend to work much better when businesses are in
hiring mode.  Tax Credits  A broader tax credit, aimed at all companies that expand
their payrolls, would create many jobs on its own and would give
impetus to smaller, targeted initiatives. Timothy Bartik, an
economist at the nonpartisan  W.E. Upjohn Institute for
Employment Research , in Kalamazoo,  Michigan ,  estimates  that a
two-year tax credit, if properly designed and advertised, could
create 5.1 million jobs at a cost of about $29,000 each. The
total outlay for the first year of a nationwide program -- not
counting savings such as decreased unemployment payments --
would be about $80 billion.  And then there are public works projects. Yes, classic
infrastructure spending is relatively inefficient when it comes
to spurring employment: The CBO  estimates  the cost per job is at
least $100,000, and possibly much more for programs that require
a lot of equipment and materials. Even so, works projects are
worth including in the mix. Building bridges and fixing roads
can boost confidence and demand, improve the economy’s growth
potential and complement other employment programs by focusing
on more capital-intensive jobs.  All told, the combination -- a targeted job-training
program, a broad-based hiring tax credit and a public-works
initiative -- could cost the government more than $100 billion a
year. The boost to economic growth, though, could go a long way
toward making the government’s finances more manageable. Weighed
against the long-term damage done by joblessness, using public
money to put people to work seems a far more constructive,
palatable choice than keeping them at home.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 