-- 
Pakistan Offers Renewable-Energy Incentives to Tackle Shortages

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-08-25T08:17:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/pakistan-offers-renewable-energy-incentives-to-tackle-shortages.html
Pakistan  will announce its first
tariff policy for clean-energy producers next month, offering
premium payment rates as it seeks to attract investors to help
overcome power shortfalls.  The country has given approval to 30 companies to install
wind plants with an estimated capacity of 1,500 megawatts, said
Arif Alauddin, chief executive of the state-run Alternative
Energy Development Board.  “There will be a feed-in tariff based on a cost-plus
approach,” he said in an Aug. 23 interview at his office in
Islamabad. The tariff policy “offers an extremely good rate of
return,” with most of the risks covered by the government, he
said.  Developers may be able to get as much 18 percent returns on
their investment, he said, declining to say what the feed-in
tariff rates will be.  Pakistan is seeking to diversify its energy supplies away
from oil and gas and boost electricity production. The nation
has a power deficit of 3 to 4 gigawatts a day, or more than the
output of two nuclear reactors, triggering 12-hour blackouts
that cause riots and close factories in cities nationwide.  Financial Closure  The feed-in tariffs will speed the development of projects
in the pipeline, Alauddin said. Companies that are close to
achieving financial close include  Zorlu Enerji Elektrik Uretim
AS (ZOREN) , a Turkish power utility,  China International Water &
Electric Corp.  and Fauji Foundation’s two plants in Sindh
province, he said.  Pakistan has almost 1 gigawatt of wind-power projects under
construction or with financing agreed upon and 498.5 megawatts
more of plants announced, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance data. Only 6 megawatts of wind-energy facilities are
operating in the nation.  Commercially exploitable wind exists in many parts of
Pakistan, especially in Sindh and the coastal area of
Balochistan. Zorlu Enerji’s project is Pakistan’s first
privately owned and financed wind farm.  Pakistan is the ninth-poorest country in the Asia-Pacific
region with a 2009 gross domestic product per capita of $2,609,
according to Bloomberg data. Its fight with Taliban militants in
the tribal areas bordering  Afghanistan , a debt pileup among
energy companies and unwillingness of banks to finance power
projects are creating some “barriers” for potential investors,
Alauddin said.  “The engineering, procurement and construction cost and
the turbine cost that are offered to Pakistani investors appear
to be higher than what is being offered elsewhere in the world,
maybe 20 percent to 25 percent higher,” he said.  Pakistan is seeking to derive at least 5 percent of its
energy from renewable sources by 2030, the development board
said in March. Last year, 53 percent came from natural gas, 30
percent from oil and the rest from coal, nuclear and hydropower,
according to data from BP Plc. The London-based  oil company 
didn’t measure the sources of renewable energy there.  To contact the reporters on this story: Haris Anwar in Islamabad
at   hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  