-- 
Paul Ryan’s Smart to Choose Congress Over Executive: Ezra Klein

-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 
2011-08-25T00:00:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/paul-ryan-s-smart-to-choose-congress-over-executive-ezra-klein.html
This week, Representative  Paul Ryan ,
a Republican from  Wisconsin , ended months of will-he-or-won’t-he
speculation by announcing that he won’t run for the presidency.
That sound you heard was a million conservative hearts breaking.
But conservatives shouldn’t fret: Ryan made the right decision.  In our political culture, we overvalue presidents and
undervalue legislators. The Cato Institute’s Gene Healy has
called this the “cult of the presidency.”  “The chief executive of the  United States  is no longer a
mere constitutional officer charged with faithful execution of
the laws,”  Healy wrote  in Reason magazine in 2008. “He is a soul
nourisher, a hope giver, a living American talisman against
hurricanes, terrorism, economic downturns, and spiritual
malaise. He -- or she -- is the one who answers the phone at 3
a.m. to keep our children safe from harm. The modern president
is America’s shrink, a social worker, our very own national talk
show host. He’s also the Supreme Warlord of the Earth.”  The only problem? He -- or she -- doesn’t have powers
matching the job description. The president can’t write laws. He
can’t pass laws. He can’t stop laws from passing if Congress is
determined to enact them. He can’t go to war over Congress’s
objections, control interest rates or even command particularly
impressive audiences for televised addresses. Even the areas
where the executive appears strong and largely autonomous --
national security, for instance -- tend to be places where
Congress is simply choosing not to exercise its authority. If
the legislature didn’t want us in  Libya , we wouldn’t be there.  Congress suffers from few such impediments. It can pass
laws. It can override a presidential veto. It could eliminate
the Federal Reserve. It can declare war. The only thing it can’t
do is persuade anyone to turn on C-SPAN and watch its daily
deliberations. Not that many members of Congress would really
blame you for not watching. Most of the speeches you see on C-
SPAN are happening before an empty chamber. Even members of
Congress don’t like to watch the sausage being made.  In the Cult  And yet we treat the president as the source of all power
and Congress as something of a lapdog. When the economy is going
well, we credit the executive. When it’s going poorly, we blame
the executive. When we want energy legislation passed, we wonder
why the White House isn’t doing more. When we want the  Federal
Reserve  to act differently, we wonder why the president didn’t
nominate a different chairman.  Congress is complicit in this. I spend a fair amount of
time talking with legislators and their staffs, and there’s
nothing I hear so frequently as “the president needs to give a
speech” or “we need to hear from the White House” or “if the
president would only work with us.” The cult of the presidency
can safely count almost everyone on the Hill among its members.  But not quite everyone. There are a few members of Congress
who seem to understand that they have the power, if they band
together with enough of their colleagues, to set the agenda and
drive policy. And perhaps no member of Congress has done that
more effectively in recent years than Ryan.  Changing the Agenda  There is simply no doubt that Ryan and the Republicans
wrested the agenda from President Barack Obama’s administration
this year. Ryan did it intellectually, using a radical -- and,
in my view, unworkable --  budget proposal  to redefine the limits
of the possible in the discussion over entitlements.  His fellow Republicans did it procedurally, using a series
of potential emergencies -- including the need to fund the
government through 2011 and to raise the debt ceiling to prevent
a federal default -- as leverage to force the administration to
focus on their priorities rather than its own.  They have done this, of course, at great cost to
themselves. Republicans are terribly unpopular right now, and
Democrats think, and polling mostly confirms, that Ryan’s budget
redefined the conversation in a way that is likely to harm
Republicans in the next election. But as Democrats argued during
the health-care debate, politics isn’t just about the next
election. It’s about what gets done in between the next few
elections. One can imagine the intellectual and political work
Ryan and the Republicans began this year resulting in
significant policy achievements during the next decade or two.  Which is all to say that it’s as easy to underrate the
impact legislators can have on the president as it is to
overestimate the president’s influence on Congress. Political
scientists tend to see presidents as “facilitators of change,”
to use a term coined by George Edwards, a presidential scholar
at  Texas A&M University . What they are mostly facilitating is
the work of Congress.  Inspiring the Faithful  But parties often don’t think that way. They’re as liable
to obsess about the executive branch as everyone else is. So
when they see stars emerging in a governor’s mansion or in the
 House of Representatives , their first instinct is to wonder
whether they can capture the presidency. That isn’t always a
mistake, but it often is: Parties tend to promote politicians
who inspire the faithful, even though the work of the president
is to craft a consensus among the faithful and the non-faithful
alike. So far, Ryan has not proven he can do that. Quite the
opposite, actually: His budget has been a deeply polarizing
document.  Which is why Ryan’s talents, although suited to his current
position, aren’t obviously suited to the presidency. By
contrast, the star Republican governors --  Mitt Romney ,  Mitch Daniels ,  Jon Huntsman ,  Chris Christie  -- have all demonstrated
some facility with the work a president actually has to do.
They’ve all shown they can appeal to both their natural
supporters inside the party and potential supporters outside of
it.  Ryan is only doing his party a favor by leaving the
national campaigns to others -- and using his position in
Congress to set up the next Republican president for success.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at  wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 