-- 
Personal Capital Bets $27 Million It Can Upend Investment Advice

-- B y   B r a d   S t o n e
-- 
2011-08-25T17:19:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/personal-capital-bets-27-million-it-can-upend-investment-advice.html
The Internet has changed how we pay
our bills and apply for loans. What hasn’t evolved as much is
the relationship between wealthy individuals and their financial
advisers, who manage their clients’ holdings, take an annual cut
of overall assets, and periodically offer updates in person or
over the phone.  Bill Harris has a plan to bring this kind of personal
 wealth management  into the Internet Age, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Aug. 29 issue.  A longtime Silicon Valley veteran and a former chief
executive officer of  Intuit Inc. (INTU) , Harris has quietly worked for
two years on a startup called Personal Capital, raising
$27 million. Harris said he hopes to create a new kind of
financial-services firm catering to moderately wealthy
individuals whose net worth, from several hundred thousand
dollars to several million, is not quite fat enough to attract
the high-priced investment advisers at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  or  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   “We want to bring personalized, high-end wealth management
services to a part of the market that is fundamentally
underserved,” Harris said.  At the center of Harris’s plans is a free website,
 personalcapital.com , that will help people track their finances
and improve their portfolios. When the company formally launches
in September, visitors will register their various bank
accounts, investment accounts, 401(k)  retirement plans ,
mortgages, and credit cards.  Risk Assessment   They’ll get assessments of how risky their investments are
and their allocations to various asset classes and geographies.
They’ll also be able to measure fees on their mutual funds and
judge whether the performance justifies the price. Some of this
mirrors what’s available on other sites such as Wikinvest and
Sigfig.com, and with personal financial management software such
as Mint.com.  Personal Capital wants to go further. It plans to match
customers who seek hands-on help with one of its registered
investment professionals. That’s the part of the business that
Harris said is “a pretty big swing for the fence,” and the
company is competing with portfolio advisory services from
 Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  and  Fidelity Investments , and with
thousands of independent broker-dealers around the country.  The startup currently employs eight wealth advisers in a
call center in San Francisco and plans to add to that staff as
the volume of customers grows. Each client is assigned an
adviser who designs a personalized investment strategy and is
available to talk via telephone, e-mail, video chat, or instant
messenger.  Annual Fees  The company will charge an annual fee of 0.75 percent to
0.95 percent of the invested assets, compared with the average
for the wealth management industry of 1.5 percent to 2 percent.
“We’ve tried to combine real-time data tools that allow you to
understand and take control of your financial decisions with the
ability to have a personal adviser, to whom you can delegate,”
Harris said.  The company will face challenges. It’s launching into a
volatile stock market and a faltering economic recovery. Jim
Bruene, editor of the Online Banking Report, is skeptical of the
company’s plans but said he thinks the market environment might
help.  “There’s a lot of volatility, and people are looking for
advisers,” he said. “On the other hand, will they go to a brand-
new  Internet company , or will they go back to a name they have
heard about for the last 100 years?”  There are other issues facing Personal Capital, such as:
Why would anyone trust a financial adviser whom they’ve never
met with some of the most important decisions they’ll ever face?
Mitch Tuchman, CEO of a portfolio management software maker
called MarketRiders, said Harris is wading into a field that
tends to revolve around trust and relationships.  Building Relationships  “If I want to manage your money properly, I need to know a
lot about you,” he said. “Do you have a mortgage? Does your wife
work? I need to be in your life to give you good advice.”  Harris said he can establish these kinds of relationships
and said many of the independent broker-dealers that dominate
this part of the market end up diluting their clients’ trust by
funneling their assets into proprietary mutual funds, on which
they earn a separate commission.  Personal Capital will use individual global securities and
will tailor strategies for each client, Harris said.  “In the boom time, everyone thought they were a genius and
could do it themselves. Few people think that today,” he said.
“The question is, do people still need a handshake” with a
financial professional? “I firmly believe they don’t.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brad Stone in  San Francisco  
 bstone12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barrett Sheridan at   bsheridan3@bloomberg.net . 