-- 
PetroChina Seeks ‘Reasonable’ Margins as State Fuel-Price Curbs Cut Profit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-26T01:51:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/petrochina-s-first-half-profit-misses-estimates-as-cost-of-crude-oil-rises.html
PetroChina Co.,  Asia ’s biggest
company by market value, urged the government to allow  oil
companies  to earn “reasonable” margins after second-quarter
profit missed estimates because of controls on fuel prices.  Net income fell 12 percent to 29 billion yuan ($4.5 billion)
from a year earlier, according to calculations based on half-
year earnings reported by the energy explorer and refiner
yesterday. PetroChina suffered losses on oil processing, eroding
gains from higher crude prices.  The government’s pricing “mechanism should consider the
sustainability of oil enterprises,” Zhou Jiping, president of
the Beijing-based company, said at a media briefing in  Hong Kong .
“It should provide a reasonable profit margin.”  Earnings may improve as oil’s retreat from the highest in
more than two years eases inflationary pressures in the fastest-
growing major economy, allowing the government to raise gasoline
and diesel prices. PetroChina is also set to benefit from a tax
rebate on natural-gas imports to help meet demand for the fuel.  “The second half will be a lot better,” said  Gordon Kwan ,
the Hong Kong-based head of regional energy research at Mirae
Asset Securities Ltd. “Inflation is peaking in China and the
government will increase domestic gasoline and diesel prices.
There’s also the tax rebate on gas imports.”  The second-quarter profit was less than the 30.3 billion-
yuan median estimate in a survey of six analysts. PetroChina
didn’t give a quarterly figure. The company’s Beijing-based
spokesman  Mao Zefeng  confirmed the calculation by Bloomberg News.  PetroChina has declined 8.1 percent in Hong Kong trading
this year, compared with the 14 percent drop in the benchmark
 Hang Seng  index. The stock fell 1.9 percent to HK$9.33 as of
9:48 a.m. local time.  First-Half Profit  Net income in the first six months rose 1 percent to 66
billion yuan, missing analysts’ estimates. PetroChina’s refining
business swung to a loss of 23.4 billion yuan from a profit of 3
billion yuan a year earlier, as the cost of processing crude
into fuels climbed 3.1 percent to 138.75 yuan per ton.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore energy explorer,
boosted first-half net income by 51 percent to a record, partly
because oil and gas production accounts for 99 percent of its
income and it operates only one major refinery.  Refining and marketing accounted for 12 percent of
PetroChina’s operating income last year, while exploration and
production had a 78 percent share.  “Impacted by the persistently high international crude  oil
prices  and the fact that domestic prices in refined products not
having been fully adjusted upward to reflect the changes of
international crude oil prices, the refining and chemicals
segment incurred a loss,” PetroChina said.  Government Controls  China, which controls fuel prices to curb inflation, raised
tariffs by about 10 percent in the first half while crude in  New
York  averaged 26 percent higher from a year earlier. Oil rose to
a 30-month high of $114.83 a barrel on May 2 and has since
declined to about $86.  The country’s inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in
three years in July. Economists expect the rate to ease to 5
percent in the third quarter from 5.7 percent in the second.  The government may adjust fuel prices when crude costs
change more than 4 percent over 22 working days.  China  last
raised gasoline and diesel prices by as much as 5.8 percent on
April 7.  PetroChina has set a target to process 8.4 percent more
crude into fuels this year, according to presentation slides
viewed by Bloomberg at the media briefing.  The company also aims to boost crude output by 3.3 percent
to 885.8 million barrels and expand natural gas production by 10
percent, the slides showed.  Chinese Gas Demand  China’s gas imports doubled in the first six months as
demand for the fuel surged 21 percent, PetroChina said.  “Energy production and consumption in China is expected to
maintain a steady growth trend and the importance of natural gas
as a quality clean energy source will become more visible,” it
said in yesterday’s statement.  China will give tax rebates on natural-gas imports until
2020 if import prices were higher than domestic selling prices,
the Ministry of Finance said on Aug. 22.  PetroChina’s tax rebate on gas imports may total 3 billion
yuan in 2010 and 2011, and rise to 6 billion yuan in 2012, Chief
Financial Officer Zhou Mingchun said in Hong Kong yesterday.  China’s largest energy company plans to spend at least $60
billion this decade to buy oilfields and refineries abroad and
to expand its global oil trading business to help diversify from
domestic refining.  The Chinese energy producer wants half its oil and gas
output to come from overseas by 2020, Chairman Jiang Jiemin said
in an interview last year. Less than a tenth of production now
comes from abroad.  PetroChina was overtaken by Apple Inc. as the world’s
second-largest by market value last year.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is
the biggest.  --Chua Baizhen and Guo Aibing. Editors: Ryan Woo, Amit Prakash  To contact the reporters on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Hong Kong at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
Guo Aibing in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 