-- 
TPG Capital Purchases 30% Stake in Saxo Bank of Denmark for $560 Million

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-08-25T11:48:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/tpg-capital-purchases-30-stake-in-saxo-bank-of-denmark-for-560-million.html
TPG Capital, the private equity firm
started by  David Bonderman , bought a 30 percent stake in
 Denmark ’s Saxo Bank A/S, and plans to expand the asset manager
and online trader in emerging markets.  TPG has the option to increase its holding to 40 percent,
Saxo and Fort-Worth, Texas-based TPG said in a statement today.
The purchase values the Danish firm at about 9.6 billion kroner
($1.9 billion), said a person with knowledge of the matter, who
declined to be identified because the terms weren’t disclosed.
That values TPG’s 30 percent stake at about $560 million.  “Saxo Bank has achieved impressive growth, and we look
forward to supporting the future diversification strategy,”
Asiff Hirji, a partner at TPG, said in the statement. “TPG has
a strong track record of investing in and growing financial-
services businesses, particularly those seeking further
expansion in emerging markets, where we see tremendous
opportunities for Saxo Bank.”  TPG is buying the stake from investors including  Banco
Espirito Santo SA (BES) ,  Portugal ’s biggest publicly traded lender.
The Lisbon-based bank has been seeking to bolster capital by
selling assets, including a stake in  Brazil ’s Banco Bradesco SA,
as Portugal’s financial crisis has made access to wholesale
funding more difficult for the nation’s banks. Portugal in April
became the third euro-region country after Greece and Ireland to
request external aid.  Washington Mutual  TPG, run by co-founder Bonderman, is investing a $19.8
billion leveraged buyout fund. The firm, formerly known as Texas
Pacific Group, invested in U.S. lender Washington Mutual Inc. in
April 2008, and lost about $1.3 billion when the bank was bailed
out the following September in the midst of the credit crisis.  TPG bought a stake in  China ’s Shenzhen Development Bank Co.
in December 2004, one of the company’s most profitable
investments in  Asia . TPG sold its stake in the lender in 2009 to
Ping An Insurance (Group) Co., China’s second-biggest insurer.
The fund then raised $2.44 billion by selling Ping An shares it
received in the deal. TPG’s Newbridge Capital LLC paid about
$145 million for the Shenzhen Bank stake in 2004.  TPG, which bought a 3.7 percent stake from Espirito Santo,
has an option to buy the lender’s remaining 1.3 percent stake by
the end of October.  General Atlantic  Other Saxo investors who sold shares to TPG included
Espírito Santo Financial Group S.A. and private-equity firm
General Atlantic LLC.  General Atlantic, based in Greenwich,  Connecticut , invested
in Saxo Bank in 2005, and both Espirito Santo Financial Group
and Banco Espirito Santo invested in the company in 2008. Saxo
founders Kim Fournais and Lars Seier Christensen will maintain
majority ownership and continue as chief executive officers, the
statement said.  Saxo Bank reported on Aug. 18 a first-half profit of 346
million kroner compared with 551 million kroner in the year-
earlier period.  Danish banks are under pressure this year after the
country’s economy contracted and two regional banks failed,
triggering the European Union’s first senior creditor losses
within a resolution framework. Danish lawmakers agreed today on
the country’s fourth bank bill since 2008 in an effort to spur
takeovers and sidestep the EU’s harshest resolution laws.  The package, which amends laws that caused senior creditor
losses in bank insolvencies, will allow the state to assume
troubled lenders’ bad loans in the event of takeovers, Economy
Minister Brian Mikkelsen said today in Copenhagen. The cost of
the plan, which also allows merging banks to tap the depositor
guarantee fund, will be borne by the industry, he said.  Danske Bank A/S, the country’s biggest lender, rose as much
as 5.7 percent and gained 3.95 kroner, or 5.5 percent, to 76.20
kroner at 12:24 p.m. in Copenhagen. Jyske Bank A/S, the second-
largest publicly traded lender, climbed as much as 4.7 percent,
while third-largest Sydbank A/S jumped as much as 6 percent.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Adam Ewing at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  