-- 
Philippines May Extend Growth Slowdown

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 
2011-08-25T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/philippines-may-extend-growth-slowdown-as-global-demand-falters.html
Philippine economic growth probably
slowed for a fourth straight quarter as government and  consumer
spending  eased while faltering global demand hurt exports.  Gross domestic product increased 4.1 percent in the three
months through June from a year earlier, according to the median
estimate of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of
an Aug. 31 report. The economy expanded 4.9 percent in the first
quarter, the least since 2009. Philippine markets will be shut
Aug. 29 and Aug. 30 for holidays.  Asia’s expansion is easing after the European debt crisis
and a weakening U.S. recovery crimped demand for goods including
Philippine-made  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  semiconductors, while
rising food and energy prices curbed consumer spending. Stricter
rules for state purchases and contracts have cut government
outlays, undermining President Benigno Aquino’s pledge to boost
growth to as much as 8 percent annually.  “When the regional and global economy loses momentum, even
if it’s just a short-term speed bump, it’s hard to get around
that,” said Matt Hildebrandt, a Singapore-based economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. whose estimate for growth was the most
pessimistic in the survey. “Fiscal policy added to the drag, on
top of all the headwinds facing the public sector.”  Thailand ’s growth unexpectedly slowed last quarter, a
report showed this week, as the nation joined  China ,  South Korea ,
Hong Kong,  Malaysia ,  Singapore  and  Taiwan  in reporting the
slowest expansions since 2009.  Exports Drop  Philippine exports tumbled the most since September 2009 in
June, with shipments abroad dropping 9.4 percent from a year
earlier. Overseas sales account for about 30 percent of the $200
billion economy.  Asian stocks have fallen in the past month, with the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index dropping in each of the four weeks ended Aug.
19 on concern risks to global growth are rising and hurting
prospects for the region’s economies.  The Philippines’ benchmark three-year bond yields due July
2014 have fallen more than 1 percentage point this year,
according to the Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp., after the
government took steps to narrow last year’s record deficit. The
shortfall was 43.7 billion pesos ($1 billion) in the first
seven-months of the year, compared with 229.4 billion pesos
during the same period a year earlier, a report showed yesterday.  The peso surged to a three-year high and the Philippine
Stock Exchange Index climbed to a record this month as  Asia ’s
growth, which still outpaces that of developed economies in the
U.S. and  Europe , attracted funds seeking higher returns.  Inflation Pressure  The regional growth slowdown has reduced the scope for
 interest-rate  increases even as inflation remains elevated.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas ordered lenders to set aside
more money as reserves for a second time this year in July to
drain cash which it said may boost price gains. The central bank
has paused after increasing the benchmark interest rate twice
earlier this year to 4.5 percent.  Inflation in the Philippines accelerated to a 26-month high
of 5.2 percent in June before easing in July. Rising prices are
crimping profits at companies including Jollibee Foods Corp.,
the nation’s largest restaurant operator, and food company RFM
Corp., which said last month it may miss its earnings target
this year.  Remittances from the more than 8 million Filipinos living
in countries including the U.S. and  Saudi Arabia  may help
support domestic consumption, said Trinh Nguyen, a Hong Kong-
based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. The  funds , which account
for more than 10 percent of the economy, gained 6.3 percent in
the first six months of the year to $9.6 billion.  “Remittances are more resilient to external shocks than
exports, as overseas Filipino workers are increasingly employed
in recession-proof industries such as health care,” Nguyen said.
“Solid inflows have fueled the growth of the service sector.”  Philippine growth was probably 4.5 percent to 5.5 percent
last quarter, Economic Planning Secretary Cayetano Paderanga
said yesterday, citing a government forecast. The National
Statistical Coordination Board will release the GDP data at 10
a.m. in  Manila  on Aug. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Munoz in  Hong Kong  at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  