-- 
Phoenix Says First-Half Cashflow Climbed After Fund Mergers

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-08-25T08:01:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/phoenix-profit-declines-after-one-time-gains-not-repeated-1-.html
Phoenix Group Holdings (PGH) , the U.K.’s
biggest manager of closed life insurance funds, said first-half
cashflow climbed after it merged groups of policies and reduced
costs to squeeze more money from its funds.  Phoenix generated 496 million pounds ($813 million) of cash
from its funds in the six months to June 30, up from 335 million
pounds a year earlier, the London-based firm said in a statement
today. That beat the 487 million-pound average estimate of four
analysts surveyed by the company.  The increased cashflow was due to a “series of management
actions such as fund mergers, tax hedging and tax shelters,”
Chief Executive Officer Clive Bannister said in a telephone
interview. “There are clearly relatively arcane and technical
processes behind what we do, but it is our job to simplify and
explain in words of one syllable such as cash.”  Phoenix, which buys life insurance policies and profits by
releasing capital from them as they mature, is aiming to pay
down its 2.7 billion-pound debt pile, almost half of which is
due in 2014. The stock is the second-worst performer in the FTSE
350 Insurance Index over the last three months as investors
speculated the European debt crisis may make rolling over the
debt more difficult.  “We don’t think there’s going to be an issue about what
will be a re-terming rather than a refinancing of our financial
debt package,” Bannister said, referring to the market
volatility of the past month.  Stock Climbs  The stock climbed 13.5 pence, or 2.6 percent, to 535 pence
as of 8:45 a.m. in London trading, for a market value of about
923 million pounds.  Phoenix accrued the debt when it purchased Resolution Plc
for 5 billion pounds in 2007, when the firm was run by Hugh Osmond, founder of U.K. restaurant chain Pizza Express. Osmond
is now the firm’s third-biggest shareholder with a 5.6 percent
stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The firm said it expects to meet its target of producing
between 750 million pounds and 850 million pounds of cash this
year. Net income fell to 90 million pounds from 179 million
pounds in the same period a year earlier, Phoenix said.  The lower profit “reflects the impact of one-off positive
experience variances that were recognized in the Phoenix Life
operating profit in the first half of 2010 and further
investment” in its asset management arm, Phoenix said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  