-- 
Playtech Could Spend $145 Million on Purchases, CFO Says

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-08-25T15:42:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/playtech-could-spend-145-million-on-purchases-cfo-says-1-.html
Playtech Ltd., an Internet software
company that has a joint venture with  William Hill Plc (WMH) , may
spend as much as 100 million euros ($145 million) on purchases
or joint ventures, Chief Financial Officer David Mathewson said.  While the company has made no decisions on spending, it may
rearrange its finances to ease acquisitions, he said in a phone
interview, declining to give details. Today Playtech said first-
half profit rose 2.4 percent on casino and bingo gains.  The recent slump in world markets makes purchase prices
attractive, Chief Executive Officer Mor Weizer said. Playtech
said it’s deferring a decision on its interim dividend to give
it flexibility for joint ventures and acquisitions. The company
has no long-term debt and had 64.3 million euros in cash or
equivalents on June 30.  “Some may not like the deferral of the interim dividend,
but, given the group’s acquisition track record and that
ultimately Playtech is a growth story, we can see the logic
behind the decision,” said  Nick Batram , an analyst with Peel
Hunt who has a “buy” recommendation on Playtech.  Last year’s final dividend cost 23.4 million euros.  The shares dropped 13.25 pence, or 4.2 percent, to 303.25
pence in London. They have fallen 28 percent this year, giving
the company a market value of 736 million pounds ($1.2 billion).  In May, Playtech said it would considering buying back as
much as 10 percent of its shares.  Opportunities  “If exceptional opportunities have presented themselves
since May it makes sense that the board would want to keep its
powder dry,” wrote Ivor Jones, a Numis analyst. “However, it
will need to convince public market shareholders that any
transaction represents a better use for the cash than the
buyback.” Jones raised his recommendation to “hold” from
“reduce” today.  Since the start of this year, Playtech has agreed or closed
three acquisitions, including that of Mobenga AB, a mobile-phone
sports-betting software company.  First-half net income was 37.9 million euros, or 15.3 euro
cents per share, up from 37 million euros, or 14.7 cents a
share, a year earlier, the Isle of Man-based company said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in  London  at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  