-- 
Polish Rate-Cut Talk Is ‘Way Too Early,’ Central Bank Chief Belka Says

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-08-25T10:10:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/polish-rate-cut-talk-is-way-too-early-central-bank-chief-belka-says.html
It’s “way too early” to talk about
cutting Polish  interest rates , central bank Governor Marek Belka
said, predicting that inflation will slow to the bank’s target
in a year.  Data this month indicated  Poland ’s economy may be slowing
after having expanded at an annual rate of about 4 percent for
the past six quarters, triggering investor bets on falling
borrowing costs. July retail-sales growth slowed to 8.2 percent,
the slowest in half a year, while industrial output rose 1.8
percent, the least since October two years ago.  “It’s too soon to announce any basic change in monetary
policy stance, but my personal view is that the eagerness for
rate increases is much less today than in the first half of the
year,” Belka said on the bank’s  Obserwator Finansowy  website
today. “It’s way too early for speculation,” when the rate-cut
cycle would begin.  Polish inflation unexpectedly slowed to 4.1 percent in July
from 4.2 percent in June, matching consumer-price trends across
 Europe  as economic growth replaces inflation as the main concern
for monetary policy makers. Polish central bankers will next
meet to discuss interest rates in a two-day meeting starting
Sept. 6.  Six-month forward rate agreements are trading 14 basis
points below the three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate, up 1
basis point from before Belka’s comments, showing investors
expect interest rates to remain unchanged within the next
months. They pared bets on lower rates since Aug. 19, when six-
month FRAs traded 25 basis points below Wibor, suggesting bets
on a quarter-point rate cut.  Zloty Falls  The zloty fell against the euro to 4.16 as of 11:09 a.m. in
Warsaw, from 4.159 before Belka’s comments and up from
yesterday’s closing 4.1671.  The central bank may keep interest rates unchanged through
the end of the first quarter next year as it sticks to a “wait
and see” stance, although an elevated inflation rate means it
is still more likely to tighten policy,  Andrzej Bratkowski  of
the Monetary Policy Council said, Reuters reported today.  “There are no grounds for signaling to the market a
lowering of interest rates,” Bratkowski said in an interview,
according to the news service. The inflation rate may fall to
3.5 percent or less by year-end, with the decline slowing or
stopping in 2012, Reuters quoted Bratkowski as saying.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net ;
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  