-- 
Polysilicon Falls 0.8% in Week, EnergyTrend Says; Wacker Climbs

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-08-25T12:15:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/polysilicon-falls-0-8-in-week-energytrend-says-wacker-climbs.html
Polysilicon, the main raw material
in photovoltaic panels, fell by 0.8 percent in the past week, an
energy research firm said, adding to evidence the commodity has
stabilized after its price plunged in the last three months.  The average spot price of solar-grade polysilicon slipped
to $51.10 per kilogram in the week through Aug. 24, according to
a survey by EnergyTrend published on  its website  today. Wacker
Chemie AG, the second biggest polysilicon maker, and Renewable
Energy Corp ASA, its Oslo-based rival, both rose.  “People are seeing that silicon prices are about to reach
their trough levels -- the steepness of the decline has
vanished,” said Ankit Jain, a clean energy analyst at Standard
& Poor’s Equity Research in  London . “Over the last two months
the price was just falling and falling and nothing was there in
the market to suggest the fall would stop.”  Investors are looking for signs that prices of photovoltaic
panels have fallen far enough to trigger increasing demand in
 Germany , the biggest solar panel market. German installations
slumped in the first half spurring a 30 percent decline in
polysilicon during June and July as manufacturers struggled to
shift inventories, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  BNEF’s monthly polysilicon index showed the average price
rose in August for the first time in five months.  Wacker Chemie climbed after the news, adding as much as
1.20 euros and traded up 0.5 percent at 99.23 euros at 1:24 p.m.
today in German trading. Renewable Energy Corp. added as much as
0.11 kroner in Oslo and was up 1 percent at 9.25 kroner.  Cells vs Panels  Solar cells slipped 0.3 percent to an average 74.9 U.S.
cents per watt while the price of completed panels dropped 0.9
percent to $1.22 per watt, Taipei-based EnergyTrend said. The
data signals panel demand is improving, said Rupesh Madlani, a
clean energy analyst at  Barclays Capital  in London.  “A more stable spot price for poly indicates that third
quarter volumes are strengthening and that is positive for
Wacker, OCI and REC,” Madlani said in an e-mailed response to
questions. OCI Co., based in  Seoul , is the third-biggest
polysilicon producer.  EnergyTrend’s pricing data is based on a survey of solar
equipment makers in  Europe , the U.S.,  Japan  and  China . It
doesn’t disclose how many companies participate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  