-- 
Pound Weakens as Consumer Confidence Falls, Weale Cites Contagion Concern

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-08-25T15:30:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/pound-drops-against-euro-as-consumer-confidence-fall-fans-recovery-concern.html
The pound weakened against all its
major counterparts after an industry report showed U.K. consumer
confidence dropped in July, fueling concern the economic
recovery is faltering.  Sterling declined to a two-week low versus the euro after
Bank of England Policy maker  Martin Weale  said he abandoned his
call for an interest-rate increase this month due to the risk of
contagion from the U.S. and  Europe .  Nationwide Building Society 
said its sentiment index dropped 2 points to 49 for August, the
lowest since April. A gauge of consumers’ expectations for the
economy in the next six months slipped 3 points to 67,
Nationwide said.  “The economy is pretty much geared toward consumer
expenditure and that’s proving to be a headwind for the pound,”
said  Jeremy Stretch , executive director of foreign-exchange
strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in London.  The pound dropped 0.6 percent to $1.6280 as of 4:29 p.m. in
London after declining to $1.6261, the weakest since Aug. 15.
The currency fell for a third day against the euro, losing 0.3
percent to 88.29 pence. It earlier slipped to 88.35 pence, the
lowest since Aug. 10.  Sterling has dropped 7.9 percent in the past 12 months
against nine developed-market peers, the second biggest decline
after the dollar, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes.  The U.K. currency depreciated as investors speculated a
slowing economy would prompt the central bank to keep borrowing
costs at a record low.  ‘Weaker’ Outlook  Given “the weaker economic outlook” and “its
implications for U.K. inflation, the need for insurance is less
than it was,” Weale said today in Doncaster,  England . “I did
not see the case for an immediate increase” in the benchmark
rate, he said. Weale had pushed since January to increase the
key rate by a quarter point from the current 0.5 percent.  U.K. government bonds erased losses, leaving the 10-year
yield little changed at 2.47 percent. The two-year note rate
fell two basis points to 0.58 percent.  Gilts have handed investors a return of 8.3 percent this
year, compared with 5.4 percent from German debt and 6.7 percent
from U.S. Treasuries, according to the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  