-- 
India Anti-Graft Crusader Hazare Sets Three Conditions to End 11-Day Fast

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 
2011-08-26T00:13:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/prospects-dim-for-india-anti-graft-deal.html
Anna Hazare, the Indian campaigner
fasting for tougher laws to combat corruption, set three
conditions to break a hunger strike now in its 11th day after an
appeal from Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh .  Hazare, 74, told his supporters that  parliament  should
start discussions from today to appoint ombudsmen in all 28
Indian states, consider bringing lower rungs of the bureaucracy
in the ambit of an anti-graft law and prepare a “citizens’
charter” to oversee ministries. The conditions have been
conveyed to Singh, the activist said.  “On these three issues we will test” the lawmakers on
their positions, Hazare said yesterday. Earlier, Kiran Bedi, one
of his key aides and a former police officer, posted a comment
on her Twitter Inc. account that “corrupt politicians will
sabotage” their version of the bill.  Singh, without conceding to any of the key demands of
Hazare, said yesterday that all views on the issue need to be
taken on board and debated in parliament before a law is enacted.
Singh is under pressure to tackle graft after the Comptroller
and Auditor General said last year that opaque rules allowed the
government to sell phone permits in 2008 in an “arbitrary
manner,” costing the exchequer as much as $31 billion.  The latest development may help resolve the impasse that
has drawn thousands of protesters to the Ramlila fair ground in
the nation’s capital, the site of Hazare’s protest, said  Sanjay
Kumar , a New Delhi-based analyst at the Centre for the Study of
Developing Societies.  ‘Can’t Go On’  “This can’t go on indefinitely,” he said. “We are now in
the last couple of days of this protest and the two sides may
strike an agreement that neither side is happy with.”  A mob in the heart of the nation’s capital forced some
outlets of  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and Yum! Brands Inc.’s
Pizza Hut to down their shutters yesterday in support of
Hazare’s fast and stronger anti-corruption laws. The biggest
rally was in New Delhi over the past weekend and drew as many
50,000 people. Campaigners for tougher rules want to bypass a
panel of lawmakers, while the government and many political
parties are against circumventing parliamentary processes.  The government’s version of the ombudsman bill excludes
oversight of a serving prime minister, judges, most bureaucrats
and actions of lawmakers in parliament. The activists want the
country’s highest executive, judiciary and all bureaucrats
covered, with powers to probe and prosecute.  ‘Sticky Issues’  The three conditions, which Hazare wants discussed in
parliament, are the “sticky issues” that have remained
unresolved during talks between activists and government
representatives, Arvind Kejriwal, a Hazare aide and freedom of
information campaigner, said on Aug. 23.  An all-party meeting called by Singh two days ago failed to
reach a consensus, with the opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party 
calling for the withdrawal of the government-introduced bill,
which activists say lacks teeth.  Poole, England-based Fitness First Ltd. sent  text messages 
to its members in  New Delhi  that its gymnasium in the  city’s
center  will be shut, heeding a call by the New Delhi Traders
Association to support Hazare. A bunch of 25 flag-waving,
slogan-shouting demonstrators went around the central Connaught
Place shopping area urging businesses to close.  “We just want to be safe and avoid putting customers in
any harm’s way,” said Rajiv Kumar, the store manager of
McDonald’s on one of the main thoroughfares of New Delhi.  ‘Embodiment of Disgust’  Thousands of protesters have been gathering at the hunger-
strike venue, singing patriotic songs and chanting slogans.
Fearing forced eviction by the police, Hazare on Aug. 24 asked
his supporters to court arrest and picket the residences of
lawmakers.  “I respect his idealism; he has become the embodiment of
the disgust and concern about tackling corruption,” Singh said
in parliament yesterday. “We will find effective ways and means
of discussing the Jan Lokpal bill along with the government
version of the bill,” referring to the activists’ version of
the proposed law.  Last week, Hazare drew condemnation from Singh, who called
his campaign “totally misconceived” and a danger to  India ’s
parliamentary democracy. Hazare has fashioned his hunger strike
on those of his inspiration, India’s independence icon  Mahatma
Gandhi , and has asked his supporters to eschew any form of
violence during their protest.  Delhi Games  A hunger strike by Hazare in April first grabbed the
attention of television channels that had exposed graft cases in
the heart of government, including alleged irregularities in
completing contracts for last year’s Commonwealth Games in New
Delhi. The government invited social activists for talks on
framing the Lokpal Bill. Hazare says their suggestions were
ignored.  A former telecom minister, a federal lawmaker and
businessmen have been jailed and are on trial in New Delhi over
their role in the sale of mobile phone licenses.  The protesters are hearing “only statements” and “more
assurances, which no one believes,” Bedi, Hazare’s aide said in
a separate posting on Twitter yesterday. “Corrupt politicians
see it as a graveyard. For the people, it is a ray of hope,”
she wrote earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  