-- 
Qaddafi Turns to Syria Media to Broadcast Propaganda AFter Losing Tripoli

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-08-25T23:27:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/qaddafi-turns-to-syria-to-keep-propaganda-machine-going.html
Muammar Qaddafi , in hiding and with
Libyan state television knocked off the air by rebel forces, has
turned to  Syria  to broadcast his propaganda.  Qaddafi has spoken in two audio messages since losing
control of the capital, Tripoli, this week, both aired by a
privately owned network called Al Oruba TV. It is linked to
Arrai TV, a Syrian-based television station owned by former
Iraqi lawmaker Mishan Jabouri.  “Cleanse Tripoli of the rats,” Qaddafi said yesterday.
“Let the crowds march everywhere to Tripoli.” Days earlier, he
released another rambling message via Al Oruba in which he also
called on his loyalists to defeat his opponents.  Rebels, breaking a six-month stalemate, entered Tripoli
three days ago, and, after invading Qaddafi’s compound, have
taken steps to begin a transition period.  Qaddafi’s links to Syria may put further pressure on
President Bashar al-Assad, who has been crushing anti-regime
protests in his own country for the past five months. The U.S.,
Britain and  France   seek to freeze Assad’s assets and impose an
arms embargo on Syria.  “By allying himself with Qaddafi like this, Assad is
risking alienating himself further from the international
community and the Arab community,” said Lina Khatib, who
manages a program on Arab reform and democracy at  Stanford
University , in a telephone interview today. “We may see this
situation escalate as the Qaddafi regime crumbles.”  When queried by Bloomberg News, Paris-based  Eutelsat
Communications (ETL)  SA, which carries the channels through a
wholesale arrangement, said it seeks to shut down both Al Ourba
and Arrai.  Terminate Transmissions  Eutelsat is “in contact with its distributor, Noorsat, who
has committed to do everything in its power to terminate these
transmissions on both channels and ensure they do not resume
broadcasting on Eutelsat’s satellites,” spokeswoman Vanessa O’Connor said in an interview.  Arrai has links with Rami Makhlouf, Assad’s cousin who
controls Syria’s telecommunications sector, Khatib said. “Even
though Arrai is a private channel, it would not have been able
to broadcast had it not been approved by the Syrian regime,”
she said.  Television pictures yesterday showed Al Oruba’s coverage
combined with Arrai, and their logos alongside each other.
Arrai’s Twitter Inc. feed updates news on Qaddafi, and
advertises when he is about to release a message on Al Oruba,
which it calls its “sister channel.”  Qaddafi hasn’t been seen in public for weeks, hiding from
the rebels who now control most of Tripoli.  State TV Hit  “The fact that he’s been able to broadcast causes some
confusion and additional worry, apart from the concern that
people already have about where he is,” Dina Matar, a lecturer
in Arab Media and Political Communication at School of Oriental
and African Studies at the University of  London  said in an
interview today.  NATO targeted Libyan state television in July when its
warplanes bombed three of the station’s satellite transmitters
in Tripoli. The alliance said it was seeking to degrade
Qaddafi’s “use of satellite television as a means to intimidate
the Libyan people and incite acts of violence against them.”  Two months earlier, the  Arab League  tried to stop Qaddafi’s
propaganda machine when it asked the Arab Satellite
Communications Organization, Arabsat, to block Libyan state
television and any other channel loyal to Qaddafi.  Jabouri is wanted by the Iraqi government for suspected
links to terrorism, and the U.S. Treasury Department in January
2008 froze his assets for similar reasons.  Libyan Link  At the time, Jabouri ran Al Zawra television, also Syria-
based, and privately agreed to broadcast secret messages through
patriotic songs to the Sunni terrorist group the Islamic Army of
 Iraq , according to the  U.S. Treasury . It was shut down.  Jabouri’s Libyan link is Arrai’s general manager, Ahmad al-
Shater, who is close to Qaddafi and is himself Libyan,
Stanford’s Khatib said. “So we have Iraqis setting up a channel
in Syria directed by a Libyan,” she said.  “Qaddafi has basically lost almost everything,” Khatib
said. “The only thing he hasn’t lost is his ability to
manipulate the media in this very limited way. If anything, it
is just a sign of how desperate he is.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  