-- 
RAB Founders Plan to Invest $30 Million in Firm’s Biggest Fund

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-08-25T13:47:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/rab-founders-plan-to-invest-30-million-in-firm-s-biggest-fund.html
RAB Capital Plc (RAB)  founders Philip Richards and Michael Alen-Buckley will invest $30 million of
their own money in the company’s biggest hedge fund so it
doesn’t have to separate illiquid assets from other holdings.  The investment increases the founders’ total allocation to
the RAB Special Situations Fund to $40 million, the London-based
company said in a statement today. The investment means the
fund’s board of directors won’t have to move hard-to-sell
holdings into a so-called side pocket, an account hedge funds
use to separate assets. Clients typically can’t get their money
back from such accounts until investments are sold.  RAB Capital decided in June to delist its shares from the
London Stock Exchange after investors flooded the company with
requests to pull money. The company’s turmoil started in 2008,
when the Special Situations fund slumped 73 percent after making
a money-losing investment in Northern Rock Plc and buying an
illiquid stake in a motor-racing franchise.  RAB Capital said in April investors had made requests to
withdraw 76 percent of assets in the Special Situations fund,
leaving it with less than $100 million. The fund managed as much
as $2.3 billion in 2007.  The Special Situations fund will have about 90 holdings at
the beginning of October, according to the statement. About 40
percent of the portfolio’s value will be direct investments in
companies that aren’t listed on exchanges, a total that will
decline as illiquid assets are sold. In the future, the Special
Situations fund will only invest in publicly traded companies
within the  energy industry , RAB Capital said in the statement.  Richards and Alen-Buckley founded RAB Capital in 1999 and
the company sold shares to the public in 2004.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  