-- 
Raiffeisen May Sell Shares to Boost Capital Within 12 Months for Basel III

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-08-25T15:50:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/raiffeisen-may-sell-shares-to-boost-capital-within-12-months-2-.html
Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,
eastern  Europe ’s third-biggest lender, may sell new shares in
the next 12 months to underpin loan growth and prepare for new
bank capital rules.  If the former communist economies of eastern Europe keep
expanding and consumers and companies in the region demand more
credit, the likelihood for a share sale will rise, Chief
Executive Officer Herbert Stepic told journalists in Vienna
today.  Should European Union policy makers actions “manage to
calm down the markets, then I’m confident that there will be
significant growth next year,” Stepic said, and this could
“accelerate” a deal. “If the spiral goes down, it will be
rather unlikely,” he added. Complying with new capital rules
for banks is also a driver for the decision, Stepic said.  Regulators including the Basel Committee for Banking
Supervision are ordering banks to raise capital to protect
against a re-run of the 2008 global financial meltdown.
Raiffeisen’s core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of its financial
strength, declined by 40 basis points to 8.5 percent in the
second quarter because its loan book grew 3.1 percent. The
capital includes 1.75 billion euros ($2.5 billion) in state
funds it received in 2009 and must repay at some point.  Main Shareholder Dilution  Stepic declined to say how much capital he wants to raise.
Raiffeisen may sell shares for about 1.5 billion euros this year
to boost capital, according to the majority of 14 analysts
polled by Bloomberg in February.  Standard & Poor’s  said Feb. 7
it may cut Raiffeisen’s debt rating if the lender doesn’t sell
new stock in the “short to medium term.”  Its main shareholder, Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich
AG, may not fully participate in a possible rights offer,
allowing a dilution of its 78.5 percent stake, RZB Chief
Executive Officer Walter Rothensteiner, who is also Raiffeisen’s
chairman, said April 14. Stepic said this was RZB’s decision.  With bank units in 15 former communist countries,
Raiffeisen ranks behind  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  in
terms of assets in the region. The lenders are betting that
Eastern Europe’s economic and banking growth will outpace that
of Western Europe once the region overcomes the recession that
has been driving up delinquent loans.  Raiffeisen fell 1.3 percent to 26.5 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close of Vienna trading, snapping three days of advances. That
made it today’s third-worst performer on the 46-member Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index.  Profit Doubles  Raiffeisen reported today that net income rose to 345
million euros in the three months ended June 30, from 138
million euros a year earlier, as profits almost doubled in
 Russia  and more than quadrupled in the unit comprising Ukraine
and Belarus. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had estimated
earnings of 265 million euros on average.  Bad debt declined to 8.5 percent of its loan book from 8.6
percent at the end of March, Raiffeisen said. This led to a 30
percent drop of provisions for bad debt, a bigger reduction than
the 17 percent the analysts surveyed forecast. Provisions fell
in Russia and the rest of the former  Soviet Union .  Raiffeisen almost tripled its losses in  Hungary  to 31
million euros, and Stepic said the country was the group’s
“most problematic” market. The only other country where
Raiffeisen had losses in the quarter was Slovenia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  