-- 
Transport Stocks’ New Low Hints Weakness: Technical Analysis

-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 
2011-08-25T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/transport-stocks-new-low-hints-weakness-technical-analysis.html
Transportation stocks are signaling
the U.S. market may be poised for more losses as the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  heads for its worst month since May 2010.  Dow Theory, created by Wall Street Journal co-founder
Charles Dow during the late 1800s, holds that the 30-stock Dow
industrial average takes cues from the Dow Jones Transportation
Average. Both averages sank to 2011 lows after the Aug. 5
downgrade of the U.S. credit rating by  Standard & Poor’s . Last
week, while the industrial measure stayed above its Aug. 10 low,
the gauge of companies such as FedEx Corp. fell below its Aug. 8
low of 4,363.50.  “The fact that the overall market held its lows while the
cyclical stocks did not, I don’t think it sent a good message
about the health of the market,”  Christopher Verrone , head of
 technical analysis  at New York-based Strategas Research
Partners, said in a telephone interview. “That’s not a very
constructive backdrop for the overall market.”  The Dow industrial average has slumped 6.8 percent this
month, including a 4 percent decline last week, amid concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis is spreading and the  U.S. economy  may enter
a recession. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the broader
benchmark for U.S. equities, is down 8.9 percent since the end
of July, heading for its biggest monthly retreat since February
2009.  More Cash  Chuck Carlson, chief executive officer at Horizon
Investment Services LLC in Hammond,  Indiana , said in a telephone
interview that his firm turned bearish after both of the Dow
measures broke their June lows on Aug. 2. Horizon oversees $160
million and uses Dow Theory to determine how much cash to hold
as insurance against declines in stock prices.  In funds that can be invested entirely in equities, cash
holdings should rise to 25 percent from about 10 percent in
response to the Aug. 2 signal, Carlson said. With the transports
now breaking to new lows, investors should monitor the direction
of the industrials to gauge the market’s outlook, he said.  “The Dow transports may be the most economically sensitive
index there is,” Carlson said. “It’s not unusual that the Dow
transports would pick up first expectations of a significant
slowdown in the economy,” he said. “One of the key things
people will be looking at now is the Aug. 10 lows in the Dow
industrials -- are they going to be able to hold above that?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  