-- 
Reserve Bank’s Stevens Says Decline in Confidence May Lower Inflation

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-08-26T03:47:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/rba-s-stevens-says-decline-in-confidence-may-lower-australia-s-inflation.html
Reserve Bank of Australia Governor
Glenn Stevens said weaker consumer confidence driven by the rout
in global financial markets will help ease inflation pressures,
making it prudent to “sit still” on  interest rates .  “Inflation bears careful watching, but we can keep it
under control,” Stevens told a parliamentary committee today in
 Melbourne . “It would be reasonable to anticipate that a decline
in confidence arising from the recent events internationally may
well dampen demand somewhat compared with the outlook set out in
the Statement on  Monetary Policy  published in early August.”  During three hours of questioning, Stevens indicated that
the central bank has sufficient “ammunition” with rates to
respond to a sudden downturn in the global economy, an outcome
he said he isn’t anticipating. Australian companies and
consumers are better positioned to withstand market volatility
than it was three years ago, he said.  “Stevens put the bank into a neutral policy,” said
 Matthew Johnson , an interest-rate strategist at UBS AG in
Sydney. “The RBA appears to have balanced high recent inflation
outcomes against global jitters, and come up with a decision to
keep policy on hold.”  Futures traders pared bets on interest-rate cuts this year
with the December interbank cash-rate contract showing wagers
that the benchmark will be at 3.86 percent by December, up from
3.79 yesterday.  The Australian dollar traded at $1.0477 as of 12:50 p.m. in
Sydney. The nation’s two-year bond yield gained one basis point
to 3.75 percent.  RBA’s Pause  Since Stevens kept the overnight cash rate target unchanged
at 4.75 percent for an eighth straight meeting on Aug. 2,
investor confidence has slumped after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
U.S.’s credit rating and as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
deepened.  Morgan Stanley this month cut its forecast for global
growth this year, citing an “insufficient” response to
Europe’s problems, weakened confidence and the prospect of
fiscal tightening. The New York-based bank predicted an
expansion of 3.9 percent, down from a previous forecast of 4.2
percent growth.  Stevens said today that while he doesn’t see the global
economy on the verge of a renewed collapse, Australian policy
makers are well placed to cushion any decline.  Rate ‘Ammunition’  “If we did see a very dramatic change for the worse in
the global economy, certainly we have plenty of interest rates
to play with if need be,” Stevens said in response to a
question. “In terms of macroeconomic ammunition, there would be
not that many countries who could say they had more than us in
the event of a really big episode. I don’t think that’s
occurring at the moment.”  Ric Battellino, the deputy governor, also responded to a
question about potential economic shocks. “Given that it’s at a
very high level at the moment, there’s a lot of room for the
adjustment to come by the  exchange rate ,” Battellino said.  Signs have emerged that  Australia ’s growth prospects are
dimmer than a month ago. Private gauges of the economy in recent
weeks showed the nation’s services industry has contracted for
three straight months, manufacturing has shrunk for four of the
past five and construction has weakened for 14 consecutive
months.  “There is a heightened degree of uncertainty at present,”
Stevens told lawmakers. “There are major challenges in the
global economy and significant forces at work in the Australian
economy.”  Policy Restraint  Declining asset prices, slowing credit growth and the
elevated exchange rate “suggest a fair degree of restraint is
being exerted by financial conditions.” Stevens said. “Under
the circumstances, the Board judged the most prudent course was
to sit still through this period, in spite of inflation data
that, on their face, continue to be concerning.”  Australia’s higher borrowing costs relative to other
developed-world economies and a mining-investment boom helped
drive the Australian dollar to $1.1081 on July 27, the highest
since exchange controls were scrapped in 1983.  “Our banks are strong, our currency is sound and our
sovereign credit position is in the international top tier,”
Stevens said today. “Consumer ‘caution’, while making life hard
for the retail sector, is also building resilience in household
balance sheets. If we are entering another period of weaker
international conditions, this is a pretty good starting point
from which to do so.”  Rising Unemployment  Australia’s unemployment last month jumped for the first
time since October 2010, to 5.1 percent, a government report
showed Aug. 11.  Consumer confidence  deteriorated for a fourth
straight month to the lowest level in more than two years and
demand for mortgages grew at the slowest annual pace in June
since 1977, separate reports showed.  Australia added 41,400 jobs during the first seven months
of the year, the weakest January-July period since 2003.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , Qantas Airways Ltd. and  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  all have announced plans this month to trim their
workforces as Australian consumers retrench and a currency
that’s risen 18 percent from a year ago hurts demand for
exports. Rising joblessness prompted some economists to predict
the first RBA rate reduction since April 2009.  Stevens, responding to lawmakers, said unemployment
hovering near 5 percent is “a low number.”  Stevens’s ‘Dream’  “When I started at the  Reserve Bank , the notion that you
could have 5-ish percent unemployment and 2-ish or 3-ish
inflation, was a dream,” he said. “So my answer to the full
employment question would be: I think the bank has fulfilled
that side of its mandate.”  To help contain resource-fueled inflation, Stevens boosted
borrowing costs in seven quarter-percentage-point steps from
October 2009 to November last year, the world’s most aggressive
round of rate increases as the global economy emerged from the
financial crisis.  “We’re in a position of exerting a certain degree of
restraint right now,” Stevens said in response to questions
from lawmakers. “Balancing the various forces and trying to
work out what they mean for the outlook doesn’t seem to be
getting any easier right now,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Canberra at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  