-- 
Treasury 10-Year Is a ‘Buy’ at 2.5 Percent, BlackRock’s Pellicciaro Says

-- B y   S c a r l e t   F u   a n d   D o m i n i c   C h u
-- 
2011-08-25T14:21:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/treasury-10-year-is-a-buy-at-2-5-percent-blackrock-s-pellicciaro-says.html
Treasury 10-year notes are a “buy
opportunity” at yields of about 2.5 percent as economic growth
slows, said Eric Pellicciaro, head of global rates investment at
New York-based BlackRock Inc., which manages $1.14 trillion in
fixed-income assets. Ten-year note yields fell eight basis
points to today to 2.22 percent.  Pellicciaro spoke in a Bloomberg Television interview with
Scarlet Fu and Dominic Chu on the “In the Loop” program.  On whether Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will signal
further measures to prevent the U.S. from tipping into recession
when he delivers an Aug. 26 speech at  Jackson Hole , Wyoming:  “There’s going to be a lot of generic support for the
markets, for the economy. There’s room for disappointment
because there’s expectations of some details, whether it be on
the balance sheet, balance sheet composition.”  On BlackRock’s expectation for monetary policy:  “We are expecting the balance sheet is going to remain the
same size for the time being, for the foreseeable future.”  “There’s enough paranoia about printing dollars. That
phase is probably over for now.”  On Treasury 10-year yields:  “We think yields are going to stay low. A move back to
2.4, 2.5 percent range would be a buy opportunity for us. We
think that what Bernanke and the committee said in the last
statement about keeping rates pegged for two years is very
powerful. It drops volatility in the front end. It makes fixed-
income securities look better because they become less
volatile.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scarlet Fu in  New York  at 
 scarfu@bloomberg.net ;
Dominic Chu in New York at 
 dchu16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  