-- 
Treasury Reaches $88.3 Million JPMorgan Sanctions Settlement

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-08-25T20:11:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/treasury-reaches-88-3-million-jpmorgan-sanctions-settlement.html
The U.S. Treasury Department
announced an $88.3 million settlement with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
for apparent violations of international sanctions programs,
including Cuban assets control and anti-terrorism regulations.  The Treasury said that JPMorgan through its correspondent
banks maintained prohibited financial transactions with
sanctioned entities in countries including Cuba and Iran.  The JPMorgan payment agreed upon by the Office of Foreign
Assets Control, known as OFAC, involves “egregious” violations
for five years, according to a Treasury Department statement.  “The civil settlement resolves a number of OFAC
allegations dating back to 2005, none of which involved any
intent to violate OFAC regulations,” Jennifer R. Zuccarelli, a
JPMorgan spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview. “These
rare incidents were unrelated and isolated from each other. The
firm screens hundreds of millions of transactions and customer
records per day and annual error rates are a tiny fraction of a
percent.”  The OFAC enforcement action covers actions from December
2005 to March 2011 involving multiple violations of sanctions
programs, the Treasury said. The violations include processing
1,711 wire transfers totaling $178.5 million from December 2005
to March 2006 involving Cuban persons and a trade loan of $2.9
million with a blocked affiliate to the Islamic Republic of  Iran 
Shipping Lines.  OFAC said the $88.3 million payment from JPMorgan is based
on the bank’s cooperation, transaction review and the absence of
an OFAC notice or finding of violation during the five years of
the transactions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  