-- 
Treasuries Snap Three Days of Decline Before Bernanke’s Speech

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-08-25T11:27:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/treasuries-snap-three-day-decline-on-u-s-growth-concern-bernanke-qe3-bet.html
Treasuries snapped three days of
decline as investors speculated on whether Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will signal tomorrow additional action
to help support the economy.  Benchmark 10-year yields dropped to a record low last week
as concern the U.S. recovery is stalling and the European
sovereign-debt crisis is getting worse spurred demand for a
refuge. European and Asian stocks rose a day before Bernanke’s
remarks at a conference in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . Pre-auction
trading indicates today’s $29 billion government offering of
seven-year notes will produce a record low auction yield.  “The equity market seems to be ever optimistic that Mr.
Bernanke will pull a rabbit out of the hat, whereas the U.S.
government bond market seems to be more cautious,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets
Ltd. in Edinburgh. “If the Fed disappoints, we may see renewed
 risk aversion  coming back into the market and Treasuries
benefiting.”  Yields on 10-year notes dropped one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.29 percent at 7:17 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent
securities maturing in August 2021 advanced 3/32, or 94 cents
per $1,000 face amount, to 98 17/32.  The 10-year note yields slid on Aug. 18 to a record low
1.97 percent. Yields on current seven-year notes dropped two
basis points to 1.59 percent. They touched the historic low of
1.31 percent on Aug. 18.  Economic Growth  Commerce Department figures tomorrow will show the economy
grew at a 1.1 percent annual pace in the second quarter, down
from the 1.3 percent the government estimated last month,
according to the median forecast of 80 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. Initial claims for jobless insurance were little
changed last week at 405,000, a separate survey showed before
today’s Labor Department report.  Bernanke may outline three stimulus options, the
interest-rate strategists  Jim Caron  and Jonathan Marymor at
Morgan Stanley wrote in a report yesterday.  The Fed chief may discuss using the proceeds from the
central bank’s maturing holdings of mortgage-backed securities
and agency bonds to buy longer-term Treasuries, according to
Morgan Stanley, one of the 20 primary dealers authorized to
trade directly with the central bank.  Bernanke may also address selling some of the Fed’s
shorter-term holdings in exchange for longer maturities or
lowering the interest paid to banks on excess reserves held at
the Fed, according to Morgan Stanley.  Bernanke Last Year  The Fed chairman indicated at last year’s Jackson Hole
conference that the central bank “will do all that it can” to
ensure a continuation of the economic recovery and that more
securities purchases might be warranted if growth slows. Two
months later, the Fed announced a $600 billion second round of
U.S. debt purchases to support the recovery that ended in June.  “We’re not expecting anything drastic like QE3,” said
 Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole SA
in London, referring to the possibility of a third round of
asset purchases. “The market may be expecting more, but we’re
not expecting anything significant.”  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index of shares rose 0.4 percent, and
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.6 percent. Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index futures expiring September gained 0.2 percent.  Treasuries dropped over the past three days as record low
yields discouraged buying, according to Yoshiyuki Suzuki,
Tokyo-based head of fixed income at Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance
Co., which has the equivalent of $71.6 billion in assets.  ‘Not So Bad’  “Current yields aren’t attractive,” Suzuki said.
“Inflation has hit a bottom. The  U.S. economy  isn’t good, but
it’s not so bad.”  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt known as the
break-even rate, has risen to 2.02 percentage points from this
year’s low of 1.96 percentage points set Aug. 18. The five-year
average is 2.06 percentage points.  The U.S. seven-year notes being sold today yielded 1.62
percent in pre-auction trading, versus 2.280 percent at the
previous sale of the securities on July 28. The September 2010
auction of the maturity drew a record low 1.890 percent yield.  Investors bid for 2.63 times the amount offered last month,
compared with an average of 2.82 for the past 10 auctions.
Indirect bidders, the investor group that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 39.6 percent of the securities, versus
the 10-sale average of 46.6 percent.  U.S. government securities have returned 2.5 percent this
month, the most since the depths of the financial crisis in
December 2008, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index. The MSCI All Country World Index of stocks has fallen 12
percent since the end of July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  