-- 
Treasuries Rise on Bernanke, Europe; 7-Year Notes Sell at Record Low Yield

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-08-25T21:12:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/treasuries-rise-29-billion-seven-year-auction-draws-a-record-low-yield.html
Treasuries rose as the U.S. sold $29
billion in seven-year notes at a record low yield amid
speculation Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may
disappoint investors betting on additional economic stimulus.  U.S. debt snapped three days of losses amid declines in
stocks as European regulators extended bans on short-selling
amid volatility. The seven-year notes drew a yield of 1.58
percent a day before Bernanke speaks at a conference in  Jackson
Hole ,  Wyoming . Commerce Department figures tomorrow may show the
economy grew at a 1.1 percent annual pace in the second quarter,
down from the 1.3 percent the government estimated last month,
according to the median forecast of 80 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  “People are just looking to go into Bernanke’s speech
tomorrow with as little risk as possible,” said  Anthony Cronin ,
a trader at Societe Generale SA in  New York , one of the Fed’s 20
primary dealers. “It was a good auction. Risk appetites are
really low.”  Yields on 10-year notes fell seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 2.23 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent
securities maturing in August 2021 advanced 20/32, or $6.25 per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 2/32.  Yields on the current 2.25 percent seven-year notes due
July 2018 fell seven basis points to 1.54 percent. The yield
touched a record low 1.31 percent on Aug. 18.  Note Yields  The 10-year note yield fell on Aug. 18 to the historical
low of 1.97 percent, while the yield on the five-year note fell
that day to a record of 0.79 percent. Two-year note yields
reached a record low of 0.1568 percent on Aug. 9.  Today’s record auction yield compares with the average
forecast of 1.575 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 10 of
the  Federal Reserve ’s primary dealers. The previous record low
auction yield was 1.89 percent in September 2010.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 2.76,
compared with 2.63 at the July offering and an average of 2.82
at the past 10 sales.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 51.7 percent of the notes, the most
since January.  Bidder Numbers  Direct bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 7.9 percent of
the notes, compared with 9.3 percent last month and an average
of 8 percent at the last 10 sales.  Today’s offering is the third of three auctions of U.S.
notes this week totaling $99 billion. The Treasury sold $35
billion of five-year debt yesterday at a yield of 1.029 percent
and the same amount of two-year securities on Aug. 23 at 0.222
percent, both record auction lows.  Treasuries saw increased demand after a government report
earlier showed initial jobless claims unexpectedly increased
last week, fueling concern the economic recovery is slowing and
stoking demand for U.S. debt.  “The claims numbers reiterated that there are still
issues out there that the market has to deal with,” said
 Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury trading
at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “Everyone is waiting
for Bernanke to come in. The more unimpressed people are about
the economy, the more pressure it puts on Bernanke to do
something.”  Economic Status  Bernanke tomorrow may disappoint stock investors betting on
a commitment to step up stimulus.  Gasoline costs are 33 percent higher, consumer inflation is
twice as fast and inflation expectations are above levels since
Bernanke signaled more easing a year ago at the annual Fed
symposium. While the U.S. expansion has slowed, the Chicago
Fed’s index of 85 economic indicators improved in July for a
third month on gains in production.  Policy makers, who said Aug. 9 they’ll use additional tools
“as appropriate,” probably don’t expect a recession or rapid
disinflation, making a signal of bond buying premature, said
Roberto Perli, managing director at International Strategy &
Investment Group in  Washington . Instead, Bernanke will probably
detail options for further stimulus and clarify how much the
Fed’s reduction in its outlook this month stems from long-term
obstacles to growth, said  Keith Hembre , a former Fed researcher.  “Conditions are substantially different today” compared
with last year, especially inflation, said Hembre, chief
economist and investment strategist in  Minneapolis  at Nuveen
Asset Management, which oversees about $212 billion. “First and
foremost, that would be the reason I think that any sort of
major asset purchase announcement is unlikely,” he said.  Fed Talk  The Fed chairman indicated at last year’s Jackson Hole
conference that the central bank “will do all that it can” to
ensure a continuation of the economic recovery and that more
securities purchases might be warranted if growth slows. Two
months later, the Fed announced a $600 billion second round of
 U.S. debt  purchases to support the recovery, a program that
ended in June.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt known as the
break-even rate, has risen to 2.07 percentage points from this
year’s low of 1.96 percentage points set Aug. 18. The five-year
average is 2.06 percentage points.  French, Italian and Spanish stock-market regulators
extended temporary bans on short selling introduced this month
in a bid to stem market volatility. Spain and  Italy  extended
their bans through Sept. 30, regulators in both countries said
in a statement.  France ’s Autorite des Marches Financiers said
its ban could last as long as Nov. 11. The regulators all said
they might lift the bans on short selling of financial stocks
when the market stabilizes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  