-- 
Treasuries Advance as U.S. Weekly Jobless Claims Rise Fuels Safety Demand

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-08-25T15:58:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/treasuries-advance-as-report-shows-u-s-initial-unemployment-claims-rose.html
Treasuries rose as stocks slumped
and as a government report showed initial jobless claims
unexpectedly increased last week, fueling concern the economic
recovery is slowing and stoking demand for  U.S. debt .  Treasuries snapped three days of decline on speculation
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may disappoint
investors betting on a commitment to step up stimulus when he
speaks tomorrow in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Stock losses
accelerated on concern European regulators will extend a ban on
short-selling. Pre-auction trading indicates today’s $29 billion
government offering of seven-year notes will produce a record
low auction yield.  “The claims numbers reiterated that there are still issues
out there that the market has to deal with,” said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury trading at
Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “Everyone is waiting
for Bernanke to come in. The more unimpressed people are about
the economy, the more pressure it puts on Bernanke to do
something.”  Yields on 10-year notes fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 2.24 percent at 11:59 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent
securities maturing in August 2021 advanced 17/32, or $5.31 per
$1,000 face amount, to 99.  Thirty-year bonds gained as much as one point, pushing
yields down five basis points to 3.60 percent.  Auction Outlook  The U.S. seven-year notes being sold today yielded 1.59
percent in pre-auction trading, versus 2.280 percent at the
previous sale of the securities on July 28. The September 2010
auction of the maturity drew a record low 1.890 percent yield.  “The seven-year auction is typically a good auction,”
said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader in New York at
Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. “The market’s backed up a
pretty good chunk over the last few days.”  Investors bid for 2.63 times the amount offered last month,
compared with an average of 2.82 for the past 10 auctions.
Indirect bidders, the investor group that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 39.6 percent of the securities, versus
the 10-sale average of 46.6 percent.  U.S. government securities have returned 2.5 percent this
month, the most since the depths of the financial crisis in
December 2008, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index. The MSCI All Country World Index of stocks has fallen 12
percent since the end of July.  Economic Data  Claims for U.S. unemployment were pushed up for a second
time by a labor dispute at Verizon Communications Inc.  Jobless claims climbed by 5,000 to 417,000 in the week
ended Aug. 20, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington . Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a
drop in claims to 405,000, according to the median forecast. At
least 8,500 applications were filed by workers at Verizon last
week, compared with 12,500 in the prior week, a department
spokesman said as the data was released to the press.  “People thought in August the economy would fall off a
cliff,” said  Drew Matus , senior U.S. economist in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut  at UBS AG. “At least 8,500 of those claims were due
to the Verizon labor dispute.”  Commerce Department figures tomorrow will show the economy
grew at a 1.1 percent annual pace in the second quarter, down
from the 1.3 percent the government estimated last month,
according to the median forecast of 80 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Fed Options  Gasoline costs are 33 percent higher, consumer inflation is
twice as fast and inflation expectations are above levels since
Bernanke signaled more easing a year ago at the annual Fed
symposium in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming . While the U.S. expansion has
slowed, the Chicago Fed’s index of 85 economic indicators
improved in July for a third month on gains in production.  Policy makers, who said Aug. 9 they’ll use additional tools
“as appropriate,” probably don’t expect a recession or rapid
disinflation, making a signal of bond buying premature, said
Roberto Perli, managing director at International Strategy &
Investment Group in Washington. Instead, Bernanke will probably
detail options for further stimulus and clarify how much the
Fed’s reduction in its outlook this month stems from long-term
obstacles to growth, said  Keith Hembre , a former Fed researcher.  Different Conditions  “Conditions are substantially different today” compared
with last year, especially inflation, said Hembre, chief
economist and investment strategist in  Minneapolis  at Nuveen
Asset Management, which oversees about $212 billion. “First and
foremost, that would be the reason I think that any sort of
major asset purchase announcement is unlikely,” he said.  The Fed chairman indicated at last year’s  Jackson Hole 
conference that the central bank “will do all that it can” to
ensure a continuation of the economic recovery and that more
securities purchases might be warranted if growth slows. Two
months later, the Fed announced a $600 billion second round of
U.S. debt purchases to support the recovery that ended in June.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt known as the
break-even rate, has risen to 2.07 percentage points from this
year’s low of 1.96 percentage points set Aug. 18. The five-year
average is 2.06 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  