-- 
REC Extends Shutdown of Norway Production Capacity to Year-End

-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 
2011-08-25T10:05:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/rec-extends-shutdown-of-norway-production-capacity-to-year-end.html
Renewable Energy Corp. ASA, a
Norwegian maker of solar-power components, extended a shutdown
of plants in  Norway  until the end of the year because demand for
wafers and cells has failed to pick up.  The production halt, which represents about 45 percent of
REC’s wafer output capacity in the country, includes the
Heroeya, Glomfjord and Narvik factories, the Sandvika-based
company said today in a statement.  “Market prices have stabilized but not recovered over the
last few months,” the company said. REC’s silicon production in
the U.S., and its wafer, cell and module output in  Singapore ,
remain at full capacity, it said.  Solar companies in  Europe  have halted plants to cope with
lower demand.  Germany ’s Conergy AG retracted its annual earnings
forecast in June, saying it saw “no significant improvement in
the solar markets.” Equipment maker  Roth & Rau AG (R8R)  said that
month it may be a year before solar investments grow again as
manufacturers struggle with overcapacity and tariff reductions.  REC’s decision to extend the shutdown is “in line with
probably everyone’s expectations,” said Eirik Vegem Dahle, an
analyst at Pareto Securities ASA in Oslo. “They are very, very
high on the cost-curve on these old wafer assets in Norway. It’s
unlikely they will ever come on-stream again.” Dahle has a
“buy” rating on REC shares and a price estimate of 17 kroner.  Shares Gain  REC rose as much as 6.2 percent to 9.73 kroner in Oslo
trading, and was at 9.31 kroner as of 12:04 p.m. local time,
extending the stock’s three-day advance. The shares have dropped
48 percent this year.  Prices for wafers and cells would need to improve by 20 to
30 percent to allow REC to reopen its plants, Chief Executive
Officer Ole Enger said July 19. Prices for 6-inch (15-
centimeter) multicrystalline silicon wafers have lost 14 percent
this quarter, while multicrystalline silicon cell prices are
down 13 percent, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net . 