-- 
Reliance Is Said Likely to Miss Drilling Target at Biggest India Gas Field

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-08-26T04:01:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/reliance-said-likely-to-miss-drilling-goal-at-biggest-gas-field.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  will
probably miss a target of drilling 11 new wells at  India ’s
biggest natural gas deposit by March 31, a person with direct
knowledge of the matter said.  Two new wells have been drilled and Reliance is studying
locations for the next well, the person said, asking not to be
identified because he isn’t allowed to speak to the media.  Reliance has plunged 29 percent in Mumbai trading this year
and briefly lost its position as India’s biggest company by
market value last week as gas output from the block off the east
coast declined. The company, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh
Ambani , plans to boost output by tapping expertise from  BP Plc (BP/) ,
which agreed to buy stakes in 23 Reliance oil and gas fields for
$7.2 billion in February.  “The uncertainty over when Reliance will be able to raise
production continues,” said Prashant Kamdar, an analyst with
Guiness Securities Ltd. in Kolkata. “Gas production is the
major overhang right now. They will only be able to raise
production when they can drill more wells.”  Reliance completed drilling the second well at the KG-D6
block this week, the person said. A rig called  Dhirubhai
Deepwater KG2  has been leased to  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional
Bhd. until it’s needed to drill the third well, which may not be
for at least another three months, he said.  Manoj Warrier, a spokesman for Reliance, declined to
comment on the drilling program or the rig lease when reached on
his mobile phone yesterday.  Gas Production  Reliance fell 0.5 percent to 750.10 rupees at 9:21 a.m. in
Mumbai trading, compared with a 0.1 percent increase in the
benchmark Sensitive Index.  Gas output has dropped to 45 million cubic meters a day
currently, the person said. Production from the KG-D6 block
averaged 48.6 million cubic meters a day in the three months
ended June, R.P.N. Singh, junior oil minister, told parliament
on Aug. 2.  The decline in output may continue until work on the wells
is completed and they are connected to the main pipeline system
carrying the gas, according to a statement yesterday from
Calgary-based  Niko Resources Ltd. (NKO) , which has a 10 percent stake
in the KG-D6 block.  The block started in April 2009 and reached 60 million
cubic meters a day in June last year, according to Reliance
filings. Production dropped because of technical issues, the
company said, without elaborating. The field was expected to
produce as much as 80 million cubic meters a day, more than
doubling India’s domestic gas supplies.  The Indian government asked Reliance to drill 11 wells in
the year ending March 31, S.K. Srivastava, director general at
the country’s oil regulator, said May 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  