-- 
Repatriation Tax Break Study Challenges Official Estimates

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-08-25T21:03:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/repatriation-tax-break-study-challenges-official-cost-estimate.html
The tax break for repatriating
overseas profits sought by  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and
other U.S.-based multinational companies would raise $8.7
billion for the federal government over the next decade,
according to an estimate by two economists.  The estimate, released by NDN, a research group in
Washington that typically aligns with Democrats, challenges the
official estimate by the congressional Joint Committee on
Taxation. That nonpartisan group projected that a repatriation
tax holiday would cost the U.S. government $78.7 billion in
forgone revenue over the decade.  “We find that the JCT’s approach has been flawed
conceptually and its estimates of significant revenue losses are
incorrect,” wrote Robert Shapiro, who was a Commerce Department
official in the administration of President  Bill Clinton , and
 Aparna Mathur , a resident scholar at the  American Enterprise
Institute , a Washington-based policy group that favors limited
government.  The new estimate adds to the political discussion and
lobbying frenzy surrounding a proposal for a repeat of the 2004
repatriation tax holiday. The companies, backed by lawmakers
including U.S. House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia,
support a plan that would let them bring profits home at a 5.25
percent top tax rate, compared with the current top rate of 35
percent.  Domestic Investment  Unlike most industrialized countries, the U.S. requires
companies to pay taxes when they bring profits home.
Multinational companies including  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
maintain that the tax system inhibits domestic investment. The
JCT projects that a tax break would cause companies to
repatriate about $700 billion.  Some Democrats, including Senators  Charles Schumer  of  New
York  and  Kay Hagan  of  North Carolina , have expressed a
willingness to consider a repatriation holiday. Many Democrats
who are considering supporting repatriation have said they want
to have some provision in the bill that would encourage or
require companies to create jobs.  The Obama administration opposes the idea. Administration
officials have pointed to job cuts made by companies that
repatriated profits during the past tax holiday.  Time Shift  The difference between the two studies turns in part on the
extent to which a tax holiday would induce companies to
accelerate repatriation of profits they would otherwise return
to the U.S. in the future. The bigger that time shift, the less
long-term revenue for the government, the studies found.  In the NDN report, Shapiro and Mathur note that corporate
repatriation spiked after the 2004 holiday was enacted and then
returned to levels above the pre-holiday trend in 2007 and 2008.  International growth by U.S.-based corporations generated
profits outside the country, and companies needed to bring that
money home, Shapiro said in a phone interview.  “Whatever the cause, you don’t see the decline that Joint
Tax relied on for its revenue cost,” he said.  The JCT estimate, released earlier this year, contended
that the U.S. government would lose money over the long term
after a second holiday. That’s because companies, particularly
those with the ability to move profits to low-tax countries,
would keep money offshore in anticipation of another round of
tax breaks.  ‘Less Constrained’  “If firms anticipate that future repatriation of foreign
earnings to meet such needs could occur with little U.S.
residual taxation, firms would be less constrained in their
location decisions,” JCT chief of staff Thomas Barthold wrote.  Edward Kleinbard, the former JCT chief of staff, said in a
phone interview today that the NDN study doesn’t consider that
the higher repatriations from 2007 and 2008 may have been
lightly taxed. That can happen because companies are able to
bring home profits along with foreign tax credits from countries
with relatively high income taxes. He said the study also
ignores research showing that companies replenished their
overseas earnings after the first tax holiday and increased
those holdings.  “The only question is: Will companies pay the tax that was
part of the ground rules when they salted the money away in tax
havens?” said Kleinbard, a law professor at the University of
 Southern California . “Or will they be excused from one of the
fundamental ground rules?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  