-- 
U.S. States Tighten Voting Regulation With Republicans in Charge

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-08-25T04:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/republicans-make-drive-to-tighten-state-voting-rules-before-2012-elections.html
With Republicans taking control of
most U.S. capitols this year and a presidential race looming,
states have passed the most election-related laws since 2003 in
a push to tighten voting rules.  Forty-seven states have enacted 285 election-related laws
this year, and 60 percent were in states with Republican
governors, according to the  National Conference of State
Legislatures . Democrats are pushing back by vetoing photo-
identification laws in five states and trying to repeal other
voting laws in Maine and  Ohio , where President Barack Obama’s
campaign is promoting the effort.  It’s the “battle before the battle” as both parties fight
for what they think are the most advantageous and fairest rules,
said Doug Chapin, director of an elections-administration
program at the University of Minnesota’s  Humphrey School of
Public Affairs .  “We’re at a level of activity that I don’t think I’ve ever
seen,” Chapin said in a telephone interview. “You’ve got the
combination of a fiercely divided nation, uncertainty about what
the rules are and a belief that every single vote counts.”  The hottest legislation has been voter identification,
according to the NCSL. At the year’s start, only Georgia and
 Indiana  required a photo ID and offered no alternative way to
have votes counted in its absence. Opponents say such laws
discourage voting by the poor and black people, who
traditionally back Democrats.  Kansas ,  Wisconsin ,  South Carolina ,
 Tennessee  and  Texas  enacted or amended laws requiring photo ID
this year, and 34 states in all considered such bills, the
Denver-based organization said.  Opportunity and Motive  Republicans who after the 2010 elections took over
legislatures and governor’s offices -- they now control 29 --
have had more opportunity to act on election issues, Sean Greene, research manager with the Pew Center on the States’
election initiatives, said in a telephone interview. The issue
divides Republicans concerned about fraud and Democrats
interested in access, he said.  Democrats, including former Ohio Secretary of State
Jennifer Brunner, say the trend is a coordinated effort by
Republicans.  “It’s a huge mistake for any party to try to influence or
craft the rules in such a way that it’s meant to disadvantage
one group or advantage another unfairly,” Brunner said in an
interview at her law office in Columbus.  No Standards  Republicans such as Lou Blessing, a state representative
from Cincinnati, see it differently: “Democrats are looking at
having everybody and their brother vote, whether registered or
not, and Republicans are looking at making sure only eligible
voters are voting.”  In Ohio, a presidential battleground, Blessing is co-
sponsor of a pending bill that would require photo ID.  The Republican-controlled Legislature also passed a
separate law that Republican Governor  John Kasich  signed July 1.
It makes changes to election rules, including shortening the
absentee early-voting period to 21 days from 35 and restricting
hours for in-person early voting, with no balloting on Sunday.  Brunner is helping lead the coalition  Fair Elections Ohio 
that she said will collect the 231,147 signatures needed by
Sept. 29 to halt implementation of the election law until a
November 2012 referendum.  Helping Obama  Expanded early voting is perceived to have helped
Democrats, especially Obama in 2008, more than Republicans, said
 Daniel P. Tokaji , a law professor at  Ohio State University  and
associate director of the university’s  Election Law @ Moritz 
center.  Obama’s 2012 re-election campaign is soliciting petition
circulators in Ohio by noting that almost 30 percent of votes
there in the 2008 general election were cast early.  “Now, new rules severely restricting early voting will
mean longer lines on Election Day, and fewer people making it to
the polls,” Obama’s  website appeal  said. “Together, we can
take back our  voting rights .”  States including Florida, Georgia and Tennessee also
limited early voting, while Maine, Florida and Texas changed
restricted third-party registration efforts or eliminated
Election-Day registration, said Lawrence Norden, deputy director
of the Democracy Program at the Brennan Center for Justice at
 New York University .  Hard Deadline  In  New England , a group called  Protect Maine Votes  is
seeking a “people’s veto” on the November ballot of a measure
requiring registration by the Thursday before a vote instead of
allowing it on Election Day, said Mike Tipping, a spokesman for
coalition member  Maine People’s Alliance .  Concerns about fraud are overblown, because there are
almost no cases of voters impersonating someone else, Tokaji
said in a telephone interview.  “That leaves no doubt in my mind that the real goal of the
legislators pressing these laws is to make it more difficult for
people to vote,” he said.  A 2006 Brennan Center  study  found that 11 percent of U.S.
citizens didn’t have a government-issued photo ID, and neither
did 18 percent of citizens age 65 and older and 25 percent of
black voters.  The Ohio photo ID bill would allow voters to get a free
identification, and no one should oppose ensuring that all votes
are cast legally, Blessing said.  Easier Than Beer  “You need to show a photo ID to buy a beer, you need to
show a photo ID to do all kinds of things, and the most
important thing we do in this country is vote,” Blessing said.
“Anytime you have a fraudulent vote, that’s no different than
someone who was denied the vote.”  The flurry of legislation leads to further politicization
of how elections are run, Norden said. That could affect next
year’s presidential vote by keeping certain people from voting
while causing voter confusion and problems such as long lines at
the polls, he said.  “It gets us even further from the idea that we should be
making election-administration policy based on facts and data,”
Norden said in a telephone interview from  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  