-- 
Riksbank to Hold Repo Rate in 2011: Survey

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   J o e l   R i n n e b y
-- 
2011-08-25T07:46:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/riksbank-to-hold-repo-rate-in-2011-survey.html
Sweden ’s central bank will scrap
planned interest rate increases this year and raise rates twice
in 2012 as  Europe ’s debt crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery
sap growth in the export-reliant Nordic economy.  Policy makers at the Stockholm-based bank will keep the
seven-day repo rate unchanged at 2 percent on Sept. 7 and will
forecast a rate of 2.5 percent by the end of 2012, according to
the median estimates in Bloomberg surveys of 10 and 12
economists. Last month, the bank signaled it would raise the
benchmark to 2.5 percent this year and to more than 3 percent by
the end of 2012.  “The global economic growth outlook has weakened and our
most important trading partners look weak,” said Torbjoern Isaksson, a senior economist at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in Stockholm.
“Domestic demand will be affected by uncertainties in Europe
and the U.S. but also by the stock market decline, which affects
both households and companies.”  Stock markets across the world have plunged, with Sweden’s
OMX index falling 14 percent this month, on concern the global
economy is losing steam. Swedish exporters face sagging demand
and Electrolux AB, the world’s second-biggest appliance maker,
says this will be a “difficult” year. The government has
abandoned planned tax cuts as the slowdown depletes its surplus.  Rate Cut Bets  Swedish forward rates show investors are betting the
Riksbank may even cut its main rate to about 1.5 percent by the
end of next year with the December 2012 contract at about 2.13
percent. The contract settles to the three-month  Stockholm 
interbank offered rate, which typically has a rate of about half
a percentage point more than the Riksbank’s benchmark.  “It’s more likely that they will cut than raise,” said
Filip Andersson, an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in Stockholm, by phone yesterday. “That’s the direction in
which economic developments are pointing.”  If the bank is forced into crisis mode, it will probably
cut rates to “more or less zero,” Andersson said.  About half Sweden’s output is generated by exports.
Economic growth in its biggest market,  Germany , was just 0.1
percent in the second quarter. In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve 
pledged to keep rates at a record low through mid-2013 to
sustain an expansion in the world’s largest economy.  Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said Aug. 19 the risk
of a worldwide recession has risen, after warning the government
needs to cut its economic growth forecast “significantly.”  Riksbank Split  The Riksbank last month raised its main rate for a seventh
time in 12 months from a record-low of 0.25 percent to keep
inflation in check as the economy last year grew the most in the
European Union. The revival was sustained into this year’s
second quarter when Sweden’s economic expansion was surpassed in
the European Union only by the three Baltic countries.  Two of the Riksbank’s six board members, Deputy Governors
Karolina Ekholm and Lars E.O. Svensson, opposed the decision to
raise rates last month, arguing for fewer increases.  Economic data released today showed  consumer confidence 
plunged to the lowest in two years this month, manufacturing
confidence declined to the lowest since April 2010 and household
lending grew at the slowest pace since at least 2002. A survey
by the National Institute of Economic Research also showed 12-
month inflation expectations eased to 2.5 percent from 2.9
percent last month.  Increased Resistance  Inflation, excluding mortgage costs, was an annual 1.6
percent in July. Headline inflation was 3.3 percent. The
Riksbank, which targets 2 percent price growth, last month said
headline inflation will exceed target through 2013.  “Inflation expectations ought to come down,” Isaksson
said. “Workers will likely soften demands for salary rises
while employers will increase their resistance to wage rises.”  Electrolux last month said the rest of the year “will
remain difficult” as its second-quarter results missed analyst
expectations following weak demand in Europe and  North America .  Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt earlier this month said he
wants to postpone a fifth round of income tax cuts originally
planned for next year after the government forecast slowing
growth will produce a “limited” surplus next year.  The economy rebounded 5.7 percent last year, after a 5.3
percent contraction in 2009 when a decline in global trade
forced Swedish exporters to cut thousands of jobs. Sweden’s
gross domestic product grew an annual 5.3 percent in the second
quarter, after expanding 6.4 percent in the first.  On Aug. 16, the National Institute of Economic Research
lowered its growth forecast to 2 percent next year, about one
percentage point lower than previously. It recommended the bank
postpone rate increases until the spring of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  