-- 
RIM Plans to Charge $4.99 a Month for BlackBerry Messenger Music Service

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-08-25T20:07:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/rim-to-charge-4-99-for-blackberry-messenger-music-service.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  will charge
$4.99 a month for a music service on the BlackBerry smartphone
that allows users to share songs through instant messaging in a
bid to draw new users and challenge  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   BBM Music allows BlackBerry Messenger users to share up to
50 tracks with others, discuss songs and build playlists based
on their preferences, said Alistair Mitchell, vice president,
BBM Platform & Integrated Services. The service will be
introduced in 15 countries in regions including  North America ,
 Europe  and  Asia  between now and the end of the year, he said.  “The service is compelling because it’s social,” Mitchell
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “It’s about that
conversation around music that’s the centerpiece of it.”  BBM Music will compete with free services like Spotify Ltd.
and Pandora Media Inc. that allow users to listen to a selection
of songs interspersed with advertising. Apple last year
introduced Ping, which it bills as a “social network for
music.” RIM is looking for ways to capitalize on the popularity
of BlackBerry Messenger, which comes free on all of the devices
and has about 45 million users, to halt a drop in market share.  The Waterloo, Ontario-based company’s share of the global
smartphone market fell to 12 percent in the second quarter from
19 percent a year earlier, according to Gartner. Over the same
period, Apple climbed to 18 percent from 14 percent, and devices
based on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android gained rose to 43 percent of the
market, Gartner said.  Major Record Labels  RIM fell 35 cents to $28.22 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have dropped 51 percent
this year.  BBM Music is currently limited to BlackBerry smartphones
and doesn’t work on the PlayBook tablet, Mitchell said. The
service is available on all phones that use the BlackBerry OS5
platform or newer versions.  RIM has agreements with major record labels  Warner Music
Group Corp. (WMG) ,  Universal Music Group , EMI Group Ltd. and  Sony
Music Entertainment  to include a catalogue of 10 million songs
in the service, Mitchell said.  “When you look at what’s being offered here for $4.99,
it’s an extremely compelling experience,” he said. “The more
the friends you have, the more music you have.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  