-- 
RTS Futures Decline as Investors Await U.S. Fed Speech: Russia Overnight

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-08-26T05:55:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/rts-futures-decline-as-investors-await-u-s-fed-speech-russia-overnight.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
fell, signaling stocks may drop for a second day in Moscow, as
investors considered whether the U.S. Federal Reserve will take
measures to stimulate the world’s largest economy.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in
September declined 0.4 percent to 155,530 yesterday after
Moscow’s 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  dropped 1.3 percent to 1,442.51.
The Micex may slide 0.5 percent at the start of trading today,
according to  Alfa Bank . Asian stocks swung between gains and
losses.  The American depositary receipts of OAO Lukoil, Russia’s
second-biggest oil producer, fell 2.2 percent to $57.09. The
ADRs of OAO Gazprom, the world’s largest gas producer, fell 1.6
percent to $11.80. The  Hong Kong  traded shares of United Co.
Rusal advanced 2.1 percent to HK$7.98 as of 9:31 a.m. in Moscow,
headed for their strongest close in a week.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to speak at the
annual Fed symposium in  Jackson Hole  today amid speculation he
will announce a third round of asset purchases, or quantitative
easing. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  also
is set to speak at the conference. At last year’s meeting,
Bernanke signaled a second round of asset purchases that helped
spur a rally in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “The way markets are performing, they’re not pricing in
much as far as Bernanke announcing anything significant,”  Paul Biszko , an emerging-market strategist at RBC Capital Markets in
Toronto, said in a phone interview. “People are very jittery,
and the mood remains very cautious.”  The Bank of New York Mellon Russia ADR Index fell 1 percent
while the Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, dropped 1.9 percent to $30.86.  U.S. Stocks Fall  U.S. stocks declined, snapping a three-day rally, after
jobless claims unexpectedly increased and selling in German
futures sparked a rout in global equities. The  S&P 500  retreated
1.6 percent, its biggest decline in a week.  The euro weakened for a second day against the dollar as
European regulators extended bans on short-selling in equity
markets in an effort to prevent the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis from worsening. The euro fell 0.2 percent against the
dollar to 1.4379 at 4:23 p.m. in  New York .  The Micex dropped for the first day in four as crude for
October delivery, the country’s biggest export, declined as much
as 2.5 percent in New York before settling 0.2 percent higher.
Urals crude, Russia’s chief export oil blend, rose 0.5 percent
to $110.65 a barrel.  Russia’s benchmark equity gauge has fallen 15 percent since
the start of the year and currently trades at 5.7 times
analysts’ earnings estimates. That compares with a 24 percent
slide for Brazil’s Bovespa Index, which trades at 8.7 times
estimated earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Shanghai Composite Index trades at 12 times estimated
earnings, and India’s Sensex at a ratio of 13.5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  