-- 
Indonesian Rupiah Falls as QE3 Speculation Cools; Bonds Decline

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-08-25T10:31:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/rupiah-falls-a-second-day-as-qe3-speculation-cools-bonds-drop.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah dropped the most
in more than two weeks as improved U.S. economic data damped
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will announce a third round of
bond purchases. Bonds fell.  Central bankers from around the world meet tomorrow in
 Jackson Hole , Wyoming, to consider measures to safeguard the
global economic recovery. At last year’s conference, Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled a second round of so-
called quantitative easing, a policy that boosted the supply of
dollars and increased demand for higher-yielding assets in
emerging markets including Indonesia. Local markets will be
closed next week for the Id-ul-Fitr holidays.  “People are scaling back expectations on what the Fed will
deliver on Friday,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , a Singapore-based
economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. “There’s a stronger
dollar theme regionally and globally. Investors are also on the
sidelines because of holidays next week.”  The rupiah dropped 0.4 percent, the most since Aug. 9, to
8,596 per dollar as of 4:55 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It weakened 1.1 percent this month, the
third-worst performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies.  Orders for U.S. durable goods climbed more than forecast in
July, a Commerce Department report showed yesterday. Bookings
for goods meant to last at least three years rose 4 percent, the
most in four months, after falling a revised 1.3 percent in
June. The median projection of 81 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a 2 percent gain.  UBS AG lowered its end-2011 estimate for the rupiah to
8,800 from 8,500, citing a deteriorating outlook for global
growth, according to a report today by Edward Teather, an
economist in  Singapore .  The yield on the 8.25 percent benchmark government bonds
due July 2021 rose four basis points to 6.85 percent, according
to prices from the Inter-Dealer Market Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 