-- 
Russia’s VTB, RenCap Add Bankers as Global Rivals Retreat

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-08-26T11:11:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/russia-s-vtb-rencap-otkritie-hire-bankers-as-global-competitors-retreat.html
Russian investment banks VTB
Capital, Renaissance Capital and Otkritie Capital are increasing
headcount this year by as much as 38 percent and expanding
abroad as global firms such as  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  eliminate jobs.  VTB Capital, a unit of Russia’s second-largest lender,
Renaissance Capital, the emerging-markets bank, and Otkritie,
partly owned by Moscow-based VTB Group, are hiring in New York,
 London , Frankfurt, Kiev, Mumbai, Dubai, Hong Kong and  Singapore .
The expansion comes as Renaissance and Troika Dialog, acquired
in March by OAO Sberbank, Russia’s biggest lender, compete with
three-year-old VTB Capital to emerge as the nation’s top home-
grown investment bank.  “Russian banks are flashing their checkbooks and
capitalizing on the fact that many international firms have
imposed unofficial hiring freezes,” Nick Rees, managing
director of Moscow search firm  Star Search , said by phone.
“Candidates are drawn to Russian firms, which have lifted
guarantees back to pre-crisis levels of up to $2 million for
just director level.”  Western European securities firms and banks are cutting
jobs after reporting declines in investment-banking profit as
the continent’s sovereign debt crisis cripples trading.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
Switzerland’s biggest bank, said this week it will pare about
3,500 jobs. HSBC pledged to eliminate 30,000 jobs by the end of
2013, while Zurich-based  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said it will
trim about 2,000 posts. In the U.S., Goldman Sachs said in July
it will cut 1,000 jobs after a plunge in fixed-income revenue.  ‘Huge Potential’  VTB Capital’s Atanas Bostandjiev, hired from Goldman Sachs
in May to lead the brokerage’s push outside of Russia, said
employment increased by 38 percent worldwide to 1,157 this year.
The firm was started from scratch three years ago with the
hiring of more than 100 bankers from Deutsche Bank AG in Moscow.  “We see huge potential for Russian companies to attract
funds from local equity and debt capital markets” in Singapore
and  Hong Kong , Bostandjiev said in an e-mailed response to
questions. Bostandjiev, 36, who is responsible for building the
company’s  Europe ,  Asia ,  Middle East  and Americas businesses,
expects to open a New York office soon, pending approval from
U.S. regulators.  “VTB Capital wants to be a global investment bank just
like Deutsche Bank and UBS succeeded,” Rustam Botashev, banking
analyst and deputy head of research in Moscow at UniCredit SpA,
said by phone. “But the investment banking game is getting
tougher and tougher and the cost to the parent will be enormous
if they are to achieve that ambition.”  Competition Heats Up  VTB Capital was the leading organizer of equity sales last
year in Russia and the second-biggest underwriter of eurobonds
last year behind London-based  Barclays Capital , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Makram Abboud, a managing director
for Nomura Holdings Inc.’s emerging-markets team, will soon join
to lead the bank’s Middle East expansion.  Competition has been heating up among the Russian
investment banks as state-controlled lenders have pushed into
the sector. Sberbank agreed to buy Troika Dialog for $1 billion
in March. Troika’s local rival,  Renaissance Capital , sold a 50
percent stake to billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov  in 2008 for $500
million, 18 months after Renaissance rejected a $4 billion offer
from state-run VTB Group, according to the Vedomosti newspaper.
Otkritie hired at least 10 bankers from Renaissance last year,
including oil analyst Alexander Burgansky.  ‘Closing the Gap’  “Russia houses are closing the gap” with foreign banks
said Yiannis Demopoulos, a London-based industry recruiter at
Delta Executive Search. “But a single-market product like
Russia can be difficult to monetize when you are marketing to
international clients that may take a regional view.”  Otkritie Capital increased employment by 35 percent since
January to 456 people in London, Frankfurt, Moscow and a new
office in  New York . Chief Executive Officer Roman Lokhov told
reporters in May the bank is planning an initial public offering
in 2013. After starting as a retail broker in 1995 and expanding
into corporate finance three years ago, Otkritie was the biggest
trader of futures and options on Moscow’s dollar-denominated RTS
stock exchange in January and February this year, according to
 data compiled by the bourse .  “We are well on course to hiring 10 best-of-breed bankers
for our midtown Manhattan office within the next six months,”
 Luis Saenz , chief executive officer of the U.S. unit, said by
phone. “For early 2012, we will set our footprint in Asia by
opening up a representative office in the region.”  RenCap’s Expansion  Renaissance Group increased its investment banking, asset
management, real estate and private-equity headcount by 7
percent during the first six months to 1,250. The bank has made
senior hires in  India ,  Africa , New York and London over the past
two weeks and will announce more soon, said Preston Mendenhall,
a Moscow spokesman. Ateev Chadda was hired from Religare Capital
Markets Ltd. on Aug. 10 as head of investment banking and
financing in India and followed the  additions  in July of
Jonathan Segal as global head of debt capital markets from
Barclays Capital and James Etherington, previously at Morgan
Stanley, as head of U.K. equity capital markets.  “This is a great time to scout for talent with many of the
bulge brackets retrenching and bankers tempted by Russia’s 13
percent flat-tax rate, which compares to 50p on the pound in the
U.K.,” Mendenhall said by phone.  ‘Less Need to Overpay’  A boom in commodities, record numbers of IPOs, the fastest-
growing economy in Europe and a lack of home-grown talent led
domestic and foreign banks to pay premiums in 2007 to attract
top bankers to Moscow in 2007 when dealmakers such as Ed Kaufman
and Nicholas Jordan were paid $7 million and more a year to move
to Alfa Bank and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., respectively.  “There is a greater pool of strong Russian finance
professionals now so there’s less need to overpay for expats,”
Delta’s Demopoulos said.  Investment banks have earned $863.4 million in fees from
Russia so far this year compared with $832 million for all of
2010, according to estimates from New York-based research firm
Freeman & Co. It’s largely been driven by fees earned from
mergers and acquisitions amid a slowdown in income from
arranging IPOs, the data show. The value of Russian M&A totals
$50.4 billion so far this year compared with $79.8 billion last
year and a record of $131.9 billion in 2007, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Privatization Plans  Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin’s government is
auctioning off assets valued at about 1 trillion rubles ($36
billion) to help cover a budget shortfall this year seen at
about 1 percent of gross domestic product. The  Central Bank 
picked  Troika Dialog , Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Credit Suisse on June 14 to manage the sale of a 7.6 percent
stake in Sberbank. Vedomosti reported on Aug. 23 the state may
delay the sale planned for September after market declines,
citing an unidentified person with knowledge of the situation.  VTB Capital’s Bostandjiev said the bank’s investment
banking business earned 8.9 billion rubles in the first quarter
this year, a 27 percent jump from the 7 billion rubles earned
during the same period last year. Renaissance, Troika and
Otkritie declined to detail their earnings.  Troika Dialog added four bankers this month, bringing
global employment to more than 1,200.  Chris Weafer  was hired as
chief strategist after just a month in a similar role at ING
Groep NV. Olga Klimov came from UBS in New York as global head
of equity sales based in Moscow and James Corrigan joined from
VTB Capital for an investment-banking role.  Sberbank’s Expansion  The firm said this week it recruited Anton Malkov as
director for equity capital markets from JPMorgan Chase.  A
Troika Dialog spokeswoman declined to comment on hiring plans
and the synergies from the merger with Sberbank, which agreed in
July to buy nine banks in countries including the Czech
Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and most of former Yugoslavia from
Austria’s Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG.  Troika, VTB and other Russian investment banks are
expanding amid signs the global recovery is faltering.  “VTB is trying to repeat what it did during the last
crisis when it built a successful team from scratch by
opportunistically grabbing talent,” UniCredit’s Botashev said.
“I was cynical then, but it was a good call then and maybe it
will work again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  