-- 
Russia Strikes First Bahrain Arms Deal

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-08-25T20:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/russia-strikes-first-bahrain-arms-deal-after-u-k-french-bans.html
Russia  for the first time is selling
weapons to  Bahrain  after the U.K. and France banned deliveries
of security equipment to the Gulf monarchy because of its
crackdown on protesters.  Rosoboronexport, Russia’s state-run arms trader, says it
wants more business in Bahrain. The country is selling AK103
Kalashnikovs with grenade launchers and ammunition for tens of
millions of dollars to Bahrain, according to a person close to
the Russian Defense Ministry who declined to be identified
because the information isn’t public.  In February, France and the U.K. revoked export licenses
for security equipment that could be used to quash internal
unrest in Bahrain after government forces shot dead several
protesters. At least 30 people were killed in this year’s
uprising in Bahrain, a U.S. ally situated between  Qatar  and
 Saudi Arabia  that is home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet.  “The relationship between Russia and Bahrain has been
increasingly getting stronger,” Abdul-Aziz bin Mubarak Al
Khalifa, a Bahraini government spokesman, said by phone on Aug.
24 from the capital, Manama. “We are looking to cooperate with
Russia in trade and technical services. One of the fields is in
the area of light arms.”  He declined to comment on the details of specific
contracts. Rosoboronexport Chief Executive Officer Anatoly Isaikin last week said Bahrain has become a new customer for
Russian armaments.  “States in the region are interested in Russian air-
defense systems, aviation equipment and weapons for ground
forces,” the Moscow-based company said in an e-mailed response
Aug. 24 to questions from Bloomberg News about the arms deal.  Human Rights  Bahraini security forces beat paramedics, doctors and
nurses who treated the wounded during the uprising and
prosecutors charged dozens of medical workers with crimes such
as “incitement against the regime,” according to  Human Rights
Watch . In June, the U.S. put Bahrain on its list of human-rights
violators.  “We will not issue licenses where we judge there is a
clear risk that the proposed export might provoke or prolong
regional or internal conflicts, or which might be used to
facilitate internal repression,” U.K. Foreign Office Minister
Alistair Burt said on Feb. 18.  Rosoboronexport said a mutually beneficial partnership
between the two countries would help to strengthen Russia’s
position among the Gulf’s U.S.-allied monarchies.  Fighter Jet  Bahraini King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa sat in the cockpit
of a Russian SU-27 fighter jet at an air show in Manama last
year.  “His Majesty’s interest in sitting in a very respectable
Russian fighter jet does mean a lot, and it means that Russian
capabilities today are some of the top in the world,” said  Al
Khalifa , the government spokesman.  The Russian government plans to reduce its holdings in
United Shipbuilding Corp. and United Aircraft Corp. to 50
percent and in Uralvagonzavod to 75 percent, Alexei Uvarov, head
of the  Economy Ministry ’s property department, which is
overseeing Russian privatization plans, said July 27. United
Aircraft is the parent company of the maker of Sukhoi jets and
Uralvagonzavod makes modern T-90 battle tanks.  Russia, which is a major arms supplier to  Syria , won’t halt
weapons deliveries to its Soviet-era ally, Isaikin said on Aug.
17. “There are no sanctions and we have received no such
government instructions, so we are obliged to fulfill our
contracts,” he said.  Weapons Contracts  Russia signaled its opposition after the U.S., Britain and
 France  on Aug. 23 circulated a draft resolution to United
Nations Security Council members that would freeze the foreign
assets of Syria’s President Bashar al-Assad and impose an arms
embargo on his country. The UN says 2,200 people have been
killed since protests against the Assad family’s 40-year rule
began in March.  Russia has weapons contracts with Syria worth at least $3
billion, according to the Moscow-based Center for the Analysis
of Strategies and Technologies. The orders include Yakhont anti-
ship cruise missiles, MiG-29 fighter jets and Pantsir short-
range air-defense systems.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  