-- 
Russia Vows to Keep Space Station Supplied After Rocket Crash

-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-08-25T15:28:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/russia-vows-to-keep-space-station-supplied-after-rocket-crash.html
Russia promised to maintain
transport to the International  Space Station  after a cargo
spacecraft crashed yesterday, forcing a likely postponement to
the next manned flight.  Russia will probably delay a manned flight planned for
Sept. 22 from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in  Kazakhstan  to October
as the cause of the malfunction is investigated, Interfax
reported, citing an unidentified person with knowledge of the
matter. The Soyuz TMA-22 craft is due to bring replacements for
some of the six astronauts currently on board the space station.  Roskosmos, the Russian space agency, said it had ordered
launch officials to prepare “additional proposals to support
the International Space Station and fulfill Russian obligations
to maintain its functioning,” in a statement posted on its
website today. Tougher controls will be in place, it said.  Russia  provides the only way for U.S. astronauts to travel
to the station following a decision to end the almost 30-year-
old space shuttle program this year, with the last flight having
taken place in June.  The spacecraft suffered a malfunction in its booster
rocket, Roskosmos said. It crashed in the Altai Republic, north
of Russia’s border with  China , about 40 kilometers (25 miles)
from the closest residential area, according to Interfax.  Garlic, Books  It was carrying around 2.6 tons of supplies, including
green apples, lemons, garlic, books, presents, fuel, medicines,
and personal hygiene items, according to state-run RIA Novosti
news service.  Russia’s space industry suffered a blow last year when a
Proton-M rocket failed to deliver three navigation satellites
into orbit for Glonass, a rival to the U.S. Global Positioning
System. In response, Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  fired the
head of the space agency earlier this year.  Last week, Russia lost its most powerful telecommunications
satellite, Express-AM4, after a faulty launch, setting back the
country’s efforts to promote wider availability of
communications services.  “The problem is that Russia’s space industry hasn’t
produced anything new and is continuing to use old technology,
which leads to such consequences,” said Yury Karash, a member
of the Russian Academy of Cosmonautics.  Still, yesterday’s crash is the first since Progress
flights started in 1978, he said by telephone in Moscow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  