-- 
SABMiller Hires 10 Banks for Foster’s Loan

-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 
2011-08-26T07:57:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/sabmiller-hires-banks-for-12-5-billion-loan-to-back-hostile-foster-s-bid.html
(Corrects story published Aug. 25 to show figure in first
paragraph is size of loan.)  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-
largest brewer by volume, hired 10 banks to raise $12.5 billion
of loans for its hostile bid to take over  Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL) ,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the deal.  The lenders, led by advisers JPMorgan Chase & Co., Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Morgan Stanley, will underwrite
$1.25 billion each, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the terms are private.  The deal is the biggest acquisition financing by a European
company since drugmaker Sanofi-Aventis obtained a $15 billion in
October for its offer to buy Genzyme Corp., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The loan is being arranged at a time when
the cost for European banks to borrow in dollars is at the
highest level in a year in a sign of increased stress in credit
markets.  The maker of Miller Lite and Grolsch beer agreed to pay
interest of about 90 basis points more than the  London  interbank
offered rate for a five-year portion of the financing, two
people familiar with the situation said last week. The debt also
consists of three-year term loans and a revolving  credit line ,
the people said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The financing includes $8 billion of 18-month bridge loans
to be refinanced with bonds, the person said.  Jonathon Brill, a spokesman for London-based SABMiller,
declined to comment.  The group also includes Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA,
Banco Santander SA,  Barclays Capital , Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, Citigroup Inc., Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Mizuho
Financial Group Inc., according to a Reuters report.  Funding Costs  The rate that London-based banks say they can borrow at for
three months in dollars rose to highest in a year after climbing
for a 23rd day.  Libor increased to 0.3911 percent from 0.31428 percent
yesterday, according to the  British Bankers Association . The
dollar Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend,
increased to 23.7 basis points as of 2:08 p.m. in  New York , from
22.93 basis points yesterday. That’s the highest level since
Aug. 9, 2010, according to Bloomberg data.  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings rank SABMiller’s debt
at BBB+. Moody’s Investors Service rates it Baa1. The company
has said it aims to keep its investment-grade  credit rating 
while financing the acquisition with debt.  Moelis & Co. are also advising SABMiller on the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 