-- 
Steve Jobs Departure as Apple CEO May Be ‘Lease of Life’ for Sony, Nokia

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-25T08:57:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/samsung-htc-may-gain-as-apple-s-jobs-resigns.html
Steve Jobs  shook up the electronics
world for a decade with the iPod, iPhone and iPad at the expense
 Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  His exit as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s chief executive officer may pave the way for competitors
to regain market share, analysts said.  Sony and Nokia were among Apple rivals whose shares
advanced during Asian and European trading amid speculation
Jobs’s withdrawal may increase their ability to compete in
products ranging from smartphones to tablet computers. Jobs, who
will be replaced by Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook , rescued
Apple from the brink of failure and turned it into the world’s
biggest technology company.  “It’s going to give competitors a bit more of a lease of
life to go out and compete harder,” said Richard Windsor,
global technology analyst at Nomura International Plc. “It’s
been thought about, talked about endlessly for the past several
years that Tim Cook would probably take over so while you get an
initial knee-jerk reaction on the downside, we would probably
expect that not to last very long.”  Sony climbed 2.1 percent in Tokyo, while Samsung
Electronics Co., which also counts Apple as its biggest
customer, gained 2.4 percent in  Seoul . Nokia advanced as much as
2 percent in Helsinki.  HTC Corp. (2498) , the Taiwanese maker of phones
that run on Google Inc.’s Android software, rose 1.4 percent in
Taipei.  Spearheading Innovation  “If the new management team doesn’t sustain the level of
innovation that Steve Jobs spearheaded, it’s going to be an
opportunity for the competition in the long term,” said Lee Young Seog, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Korea Investment
Management Co., which oversees about $19 billion. “Still,
because of Tim Cook’s competence and the system at Apple, the
competitive landscape isn’t likely to change anytime soon.”  Jobs, whose transformation of Apple picked up pace from the
iPod’s introduction in 2001, will become chairman. Jobs was on
medical leave since Jan. 17 after combating a rare form of
cancer since 2003 and surviving a liver transplant in 2009.  Since the iPod, Apple has unseated Nokia as the world’s
biggest mobile-phone maker by revenue with the iPhone, while the
success of the iPad tablet computer came at the expense of
traditional desktop and laptop computer makers such as Hewlett-
Packard and Taiwan’s  Acer Inc. (2353)   Documented ‘Brilliance’  Investors aren’t the only ones praising Jobs.  “I think his brilliance has been well documented, but what
gets forgotten is the bravery with which he’s confronted his
illness,” said Howard Stringer, chairman and chief executive
officer of Sony, whose products compete against Apple’s iPhones,
iPods, iPads and Mac computers. “For him to achieve this much
success under these circumstances doubles his legacy.”  James Chung , a spokesman at Samsung, declined to comment on
Jobs’s resignation as did Winston Yung, chief financial officer
at HTC.  “Steve Jobs is a visionary in the computing industry,”
Nokia CEO Stephen Elop said in an e-mailed statement. “We look
forward to both Steve and his team having a positive impact on
our industry for many years to come.”  China ’s  ZTE Corp. (000063)  said it will see a “more active” role
in the smartphone industry as Jobs’s resignation creates
opportunities for rivals.  ‘Active Role’  “We are very thankful to Steve Jobs’s contribution to the
smartphone and mobile broadband industry,” Xie Daxiong, ZTE
executive vice president, said in an e-mail today. “With
innovation spirit, ZTE will play a more active role in
communication, smart terminal and mobile broadband industry, and
build more value for consumers around the world.”  Cook, who’s been running day-to-day operations at Apple
since Jobs went on medical leave, may improve relations between
Apple and Samsung, which makes key components for the iPhones
and iPads, said Seo Won Seok, an analyst at NH Investment &
Securities Co. in Seoul. Apple has sued HTC and Samsung -- which
use Google’s Android software -- on claims of patent breaches.  “The new management team will have to prove itself in
terms of innovation,” said  Abhey Lamba , an analyst at ISI Group
in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “Investors are
going to be a little careful.”  Apple Without Jobs  Apple fans expressed their concerns.  “I’m worried about how big the impact will be on Apple’s
performance,” said Ichiro Kato, a 32-year-old office worker
visiting Apple’s flagship store in the Ginza shopping district
in Tokyo today. “Apple’s products cannot be produced without
Steve Jobs.”  Some investors say Apple may have outgrown Jobs.  “The Apple halo effect is still very strong, and doesn’t
just rely on Steve Jobs being there,” said Arnout Van Rijn,
chief investment officer for  Asia  at Robeco Group, which owns
shares of Samsung and HTC. The departure of Jobs as CEO won’t
strengthen competitors such as Samsung and HTC, Van Rijn said.  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co., said in a
note to clients he kept his “overweight” rating on Apple’s
stock unchanged “without hesitation.” Jefferies & Co.,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Morgan Stanly also maintained their
investment ratings on Apple.  Suppliers Fall  Apple suppliers fell. Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., the
Foxconn Technology Group flagship that assembles iPhones and
iPads, fell 4.6 percent to a two-year low in Taipei. TPK Holding
Co. and  Wintek Corp. (2384) , which supply touch-screens for Apple, also
declined.  “Foxconn wishes Steve Jobs will get well,” Hon Hai said
in an e-mail. “We think Tim Cook has shown good work as stand-
in CEO during Jobs’s absences and expect Apple will perform well
in the future. The relationship between Cook and Foxconn has
been very close and we expect that the relationship will become
even closer in future.”  The iPhone’s popularity and Apple’s creation of the App
Store, where users can download applications that can be used
for everything from playing games to organizing daily chores,
has spawned new opportunities for software writers. It’s also
helped boost popularity of companies such as Rovio Entertainment
Oy, the creator of the Angry Birds game.  Applications on Apple’s online store have been downloaded
more than 15 billion times since its opening in 2008, with the
Cupertino, California-based company getting a 30 percent cut in
each sale. The iPhone is Apple’s best-selling product and
contributed to 38.6 percent of the company’s revenue last year.  “Apple’s management was partly dependent on the
charismatic manager, so if he is going to step away, Apple may
have come to a threshold,” said Mitsushige Akino, who oversees
$600 million in  Tokyo  as chief fund manager at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co. “Apple may already have peaked out in
terms of the market capitalization and stock price, so this
resignation may become the symbol of that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  