-- 
Samsung Electronics, Roll Global, Apple, Barclays: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-08-25T11:14:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/samsung-electronics-roll-global-apple-barclays-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. lost a Dutch
court ruling over sales of its Galaxy S, S II and Ace
smartphones in a patent dispute with Apple Inc.  A court in  The Hague  said Samsung will have to halt some
sales of the products after Oct. 13. The ruling is preliminary
and “has no bearing whatsoever on proceeding on the merits of
the case,” the court said.  The ruling is part of a broader legal dispute between Apple
and rival smartphone makers as competition intensifies. Apple,
the world’s top smartphone seller, has filed patent cases
against handset makers using Google Inc.’s Android operating
system, including Samsung Electronics, Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. and HTC.  The patents cover scrolling in the handsets’ photo gallery
and the way a device is unlocked. Apple accused its rival of
breaching three of its patents and several design rights for the
iPad tablet and the iPhone smartphone, according to the
statement. The court didn’t extend the ruling to sales of
Samsung’s Galaxy Tab and Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablets.  A German regional court in Dusseldorf on Aug. 9 granted
Apple a sales ban against Samsung’s Galaxy 10.1 tablet in 26 of
the 27 European Union member countries, only to scale back its
effects a week later over jurisdictional doubts.  Apple said in an e-mailed statement yesterday that “it’s
no coincidence that Samsung’s latest products look a lot like
the iPhone and iPad, from the shape of the hardware to the user
interface and even the packaging.” Samsung spokeswoman Katja
Meincke declined to comment immediately and said the company
will send a statement on the Dutch ruling later.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Roll Global’s PomWonderful Sues Pompis Maker for Infringing Mark  Roll Global LLC’s PomWonderful unit sued a Texas maker of
energy drinks for trademark infringement.  PomWonderful is one of a number of food and beverage-
related companies run by Los Angeles billionaire Stewart
Resnick, who this month bought Landmark Vineyards in
 California ’s Sonoma County. His PomWonderful unit is focused on
products made from pomegranate, including juice, fresh fruit,
nutritional supplements and snack bars, with an emphasis on the
alleged health benefits of consuming foods and beverages made
from that fruit.  The company objects to the name used by Backside Beverages
LLC of  Dallas , which does business as  Pompis . The Pompis
products are energy drinks, promoted by an ad campaign featuring
scantily clad women,  according to the company’s website .  In the complaint filed Aug. 22 in federal court in  Utah ,
PomWonderful said the energy-drink company’s name is based on a
slang Spanish expression for a person’s backside.  The Texas company’s name tarnishes the Pom marks, and also
causes the public to believe falsely that an affiliation exists
between the two companies. The fact that Pompis products contain
“high sugar and caffeine” is also tarnishing the PomWonderful
reputation, according to court papers.  PomWonderful asked the court to bar the Texas company’s use
of any marks similar to “Pom”  and for awards of money
damages, attorney fees, lost profits, and profits Pompis derived
from its alleged infringement.  Pompis didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request
for comment.  PomWonderful is represented by  Stephen K. Christiansen  of
 Van Cott, Bagley, Cornwall & McCarthy  of Salt Lake City.  The case is PomWonderful LLC v. Backside Beverages LLC,
2:11-cv-00760-BCW, U.S. District Court, District of Utah.  Samsung Traces IPad Design to Kubrick Film, Before Apple Patent  Samsung Electronics Co., facing allegations that it stole
tablet computer patents from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , says the design for
such devices can be traced back to Stanley Kubrick’s 1968 film
“2001: A Space Odyssey.”  The design claimed in a 2005 patent that Apple holds
covering parts of the appearance of the iPad is depicted in the
film, in which two astronauts are shown using tablet computers,
Samsung attorney Sara Jenkins said in a court filing Aug. 23 in
federal court in  San Jose , California, that included a clip from
the film.  “The tablet disclosed in the clip has an overall
rectangular shape with a dominant display screen, narrow
borders, a predominantly flat front surface, a flat back
surface” and a thin form, Jenkins said in the filing.  Apple sued Samsung this year, saying the South Korean
company’s Galaxy line of mobile devices, including its Galaxy
Tab, infringes Apple’s trademarks and its D’889 and other
patents. The iPad maker is seeking a court order blocking
Samsung from selling products that violate its patents and
trademarks. A hearing is scheduled for October.  Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the filing.  The D’889 patent covers parts of the iPad’s “unique and
novel ornamental appearance” such as the black face, the matrix
of icons and a rim surrounding a flat screen, Cupertino,
California-based Apple said in court filings. Samsung’s Galaxy
Tab infringes the patent, the company alleges.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co., 5:11-
cv-01846-LHK, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  Barclays Sues U.K. Debt Recovery Company Over ‘Misleading’ Name  Barclays Plc (BARC)  sued a U.K. debt recovery company in a
trademark dispute over the use of the name of the U.K.’s second-
largest bank by assets.  Barclays Recovery Services has no connection to the London-
based bank, Barclays Plc said in a statement. The lawsuit was
filed in  London  on Aug. 22.  Under U.K.  intellectual property  law, company names can be
protected as registered trademarks, according to the
Intellectual Property Office’s website. Infringement may occur
when a logo or name can be confused with a registered trademark,
or where it takes advantage of another company’s reputation.  “The legal proceedings seek to stop Barclays Recovery
Services Ltd. from infringing the bank’s trademarks and engaging
in conduct that is misleading,” Barclays said. “Barclays
values its reputation with its customers and the general public
and will always act to protect its name.”  Barclays Recovery Services, which is registered at an
address on Regent Street in London, doesn’t have a listed phone
number.  According to a Feb. 9 story in the U.K.’s Mirror
newspaper , the company’s London address is only a virtual
office, and its sole director is 30-year-old Tabriz Tahir.  The case is Barclays Bank Plc v. Barclays Recovery Services
Ltd.,  High Court  of Justice Chancery Division, No. HC11C02895.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Online Gallery Exhibits Hard Drive Containing Illegal Downloads  The Art404.com gallery  is exhibiting a work called “ 5
Million Dollars 1 Terabyte ,” which is an external computer hard
drive allegedly containing $5 million worth of illegally
downloaded files.  The website also contains a list of the files that are on
the drive, together with clickable links to those files. When
accessed Aug. 24, that file didn’t open.  The only other work exhibited at the website is “ Google
Search for Meaning ,” an image of an installation consisting of
a three-dimensional pyramid on which a hacked version of Google
Inc.’s Google Maps is projected.  Gatehouse Tells Blogger Mentioning Newspaper Name Infringes  GateHouse Media Inc. (GHSE) , a newspaper publishing chain based in
Fairport,  New York , sent a blogger a letter telling him he can’t
use the name of a newspaper the company puts out.  According to the  letter  sent  Ray Jadwick’s Utica  blog,
GateHouse demanded the blog owner discontinue use of the name
and an image he placed on his blog that featured  the name of
GateHouse’s “Observer Dispatch” newspaper.  The blog was violating trademark law by using the name,
GateHouse said in the letter. Jadwick was given until 5 p.m.
today to remove the name and the image to which the newspaper
objected, according to the letter.  The letter was signed by Polly Grunfeld Sack, GateHouse’s
general counsel. She said that if Jadwick didn’t remove the
objectionable content, he could be sued, and that the chain
could seek triple damages against him.  Avex Entertainment, 30 Others File Japanese Infringement Suit  Record labels that are members of the Recording Industry
Association of  Japan  sued the operators of a website that
enabled free and unauthorized downloads of music posted on
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube video-sharing site, the Daily Yomiuri
reported online.  Among the 31 companies filing the suit in Tokyo District
Court Aug. 19 were Universal Music LLC, Avex Entertainment Inc.
and Nippon Columbia Co., according to the newspaper.  They object to MusicGate’s Tubefire site, through which
their content is duplicated and distributed without
authorization, the Daily Yomiuri reported.  The companies are demanding money damages equal to what
they say they could have earned from legitimate sales of their
content usurped by the unlawful downloads, according to the
Daily Yomiuri.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Michael Best Expands Life Sciences IP Practice with New Hires  Michael Best & Friedrich LLP hired four IP lawyers from
 Chicago ’s Polsinelli Shugard, the Milwaukee-based firm said in a
 statement .  They are Lisa Mueller, Paul Jenny, Todd Hofmeister and
Joseph Pletcher. All four work in the life sciences area.  Mueller does trademark and patent acquisition work for
clients whose technologies include genomics, proteomics,
immunology, diagnostic assays, pharmaceuticals, agricultural
products, plants, polymer science and nutritional products.  She has an undergraduate degree and a law degree from
Valparaiso University.  Jenny , who does patent and trademark acquisition and
technology-transfer work, is a former technology-transfer
specialist at the  National Institutes of Health .  Among the technologies with which he’s worked are molecular
biology, genome-related technologies, miRNA, antibodies,
biological imaging, vaccine development, receptor biology,
neuroscience, diagnostics, drug discovery and pharmaceuticals
biology/ chemistry, food microbiology, plant biology, polymer
chemistry and magnetic resonance imaging.  He has an undergraduate degree in bacteriology from the
 University of Wisconsin , a master’s degree in microbiology and
food science from  North Carolina  State University, and a law
degree from the University of North Carolina.  Hofmeister  does patent-acquisition work. He’s handled
patents related to drug discovery and development, specialty
polymers and polymeric resins, and molecular biology/genetics-
related technologies.  He has an undergraduate degree in political science from
Michigan State University, a master’s degree and a doctorate in
molecular biology from  Princeton University , and a law degree
from DePaul University.  Pletcher , who does patent-related client counseling and
patent acquisition work, has represented clients in the
chemistry, pharmaceutical and biotech industries.  He has an undergraduate degree in chemistry from Butler
University, a doctorate in organic chemistry from Emory
University and a law degree from  Indiana University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 