-- 
Samsung Electronics, Apple, SEC, Barclays, FDIC, JPMorgan in Court News

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-08-25T11:36:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/samsung-electronics-apple-sec-barclays-fdic-jp-morgan-in-court-news.html
Samsung Electronics Co., facing
allegations that it stole tablet computer patents from  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , says the design for such devices can be traced back to
Stanley Kubrick’s 1968 film “2001: A Space Odyssey.”  The design claimed in a 2005 patent Apple holds covering
parts of the appearance of the iPad is depicted in the film, in
which two astronauts are using tablet computers, Samsung
attorney Sara Jenkins said in a court filing Aug. 23 in federal
court in San Jose that included a clip from the film.  Apple sued Samsung this year saying the South Korean
company’s Galaxy line of mobile devices, including its Galaxy
Tab, infringes Apple’s D’889 and other patents. The iPad maker
is seeking a court order blocking Samsung from selling products
that violate its patents. A hearing is scheduled for October.  Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the filing.  The D’889 patent covers parts of the iPad’s “unique and
novel ornamental appearance” such as the black face, the matrix
of icons and a rim surrounding a flat screen, Cupertino,
California-based Apple said in court filings. Samsung’s Galaxy
Tab infringes the patent, the company alleges.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co., 11-1846,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  (San Jose).  Verdicts/Settlements  SEC Wins Civil Judgment Against Fugitive Analyst Deep Shah  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission won a judgment
against Deep Shah, who has been declared a fugitive in the
insider trading case of Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, that includes a civil penalty of $24.6 million.  Shah, an ex-analyst at Moody’s Investors Service Inc., was
charged in November 2009 by  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara and sued by the SEC for allegedly passing along inside
information about acquisitions involving Hilton Hotels Corp. and
Kronos Inc.  The commission sought a default judgment in June against
Shah claiming that he had not responded to its suit. U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff signed the order Aug. 22 and it was
filed Tuesday in federal court in Manhattan.  The judgment says Shah must pay back $8.2 million in
profits gained or losses avoided as a result of the conduct
alleged in the complaint, along with prejudgment interest of
$1.76 million and the civil penalty.  The SEC is “pleased with the decision,” spokesman  John Nester  said.  Lawyers for the SEC said in court documents filed in March
that the commission had located Shah in Mumbai, where a bailiff
found Shah’s residence in the Juhu neighborhood of the city and
left an amended complaint on March 22, 2010.  Shah is accused of tipping Roomy Khan, a former Intel Corp.
product-marketing engineer, in 2007 to material nonpublic
information about pending takeover bids for Hilton Hotels Corp.
and Kronos Inc. Khan then passed on the tips to Rajaratnam,
prosecutors said; she pleaded guilty in 2009.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Galleon
Management LP, 09-cr-8811, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Chicago  Hedge Fund Principal Pleads Guilty to Wire Fraud  Philip J. Baker, principal of the collapsed Chicago hedge
fund Lake Shore Asset Management Ltd., yesterday pleaded guilty
to one count of wire fraud for his role in an alleged $292
million global scheme.  Indicted in absentia in February 2009 for his role in the
scheme that ensnared about 900 investors, Baker had faced 27
criminal counts including 17 for wire fraud and two for
commodities fraud, as well one count of embezzlement of
commodity pool funds. He pleaded not guilty last year after
being extradited from Hamburg.  Baker is also liable for $154 million in restitution, U.S.
District Judge John W. Darrah in Chicago said. Sentencing is set
for Nov. 17.  “The government will recommend the maximum term of 20
years in prison when Baker is sentenced,” Chicago U.S. Attorney
Patrick Fitzgerald said in an e-mailed statement after the plea
was entered. A trial had been scheduled for Sept. 19.  Baker’s lawyer, Kurt Stitcher of Baker & Daniels LLP,
declined to comment after the hearing.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Baker, 1:09-cr-00175, and the
civil case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v. Lake
Shore Asset Management Ltd., 1:07-cv-03598, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  For more, click here.  CIFG Opposes BofA’s Mortgage-Bond Accord With Investors  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s proposed $8.5 billion mortgage-bond
settlement, which has drawn criticism from a group of investors
and two states, is opposed by bond insurance company CIFG
Assurance North America Inc.  The accord requires approval from a New York state judge,
and CIFG filed a “notice of intention to appear and object” to
the agreement yesterday in New York State Supreme Court.  The proposed settlement calls for Bank of America to pay
$8.5 billion to resolve claims from investors in Countrywide
Financial Corp. mortgage bonds. Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America acquired Countrywide in 2008.  Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment.  The case is In the matter of Bank of New York Mellon,
651786/2011, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  Sirius XM Wins Subscriber Class-Action Accord Court Approval  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)  won court approval for the settlement
with subscribers who sued the satellite-radio broadcaster over
claims it broke the law by raising prices after acquiring its
only rival.  U.S. District Judge Harold Baer in Manhattan endorsed the
accord in a filing yesterday over the objections of some
subscribers who had argued at an Aug. 8 hearing that the deal
paid them too little and the lawyers too much.  “I have reviewed the settlement’s substantive terms and
conclude that they demonstrate sufficient fairness, adequacy and
reasonableness,” Baer wrote. “The vast majority of class
members will benefit in the course of their normal subscription
payments.”  Subscriber Carl Blessing of Florida sued Sirius XM in 2009,
claiming the company violated federal antitrust law and state
consumer-protection law when it raised some prices and levied a
music royalty fee after Sirius Satellite Radio acquired XM
Satellite Radio in 2008.  Sirius XM said the increases were imposed to cover higher
costs.  The deal, valued at $180 million, provides that prices for
basic service and Internet access, as well as the music royalty
fee, will remain at current levels through the end of the year.
Subscribers who canceled can reconnect without paying a fee.
Those whose plans expire after Dec. 31 can renew before that
time at current rates. Subscribers will get no cash.  Sirius XM declined to comment on Baer’s decision,
spokeswoman Kelly Sullivan said in an e-mail. Objectors called
the settlement of “dubious value” because Sirius XM hadn’t
said it planned to raise prices this year. They also objected to
the $13 million in fees to be paid to the lawyers representing
the class.  The case is Blessing v. Sirius XM Radio, 09-10035, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  New Suits  JPMorgan Sues Homebuilder Over Share of $381.7 Million Loan  JPMorgan Chase & Co., leader of a group of lenders that is
owed $381.7 million on a bankrupt homebuilding project in
Henderson,  Nevada , sued  Meritage Homes Corp. (MTH)  to recover the
builder’s share of a guarantee.  JPMorgan and other lenders agreed in 2004 to advance as
much as $535 million to a group of builders including Meritage
and  Beazer Homes USA Inc. (BZH) , taking repayment guarantees from each
builder, according to a court filing on Tuesday. The share of
Meritage for the loans advanced to date is $13.3 million,
JPMorgan said in the filing as it asked a judge to compel
payment.  “JPMorgan has made due demand under the repayment guaranty
and the defendants have failed and refused to pay their
liabilities,” the bank said.  South Edge LLC, which is owned by the builders, is in
bankruptcy court in Nevada. The bankruptcy triggered the
repayment guarantee, JPMorgan said.  A voice mail left for Steven Hilton, Meritage’s chairman,
wasn’t immediately returned.  The case is JPMorgan v. Meritage Homes, 11-cv-01364, U.S.
District Court, District of Nevada.  FDIC Sues Ex-First National Bank of Arizona CEO Over Losses  Ex-First National Bank of Arizona Chief Executive Officer
Gary A. Dorris and former director Philip A. Lamb “sacrificed
safety” and promoted risky nontraditional mortgage loans that
ultimately caused the bank’s failure, the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. said in a lawsuit.  Dorris and Lamb were negligent in exercising their duties,
given the obvious risks of the bank’s business model, the agency
said yesterday in a complaint in federal court in Phoenix.  The bank operated a wholesale mortgage division to purchase
and market nontraditional “Alt-A” loans that lacked proper
underwriting, required no verification of borrowers’ income or
assets, and had terms that guaranteed high default rates, the
FDIC alleged.  “Although these risky loans returned record profits in the
near term, they produced losses once the real estate market
softened, and ultimately caused the bank’s failure,” the agency
said in the complaint, which seeks to recover more than $193
million in damages.  As of Aug. 4, the FDIC has authorized lawsuits against 266
officers and directors in an effort to recoup more than $6.8
billion in losses stemming from the credit crisis, the agency
said on its Web site. An additional 172 residential malpractice
and mortgage fraud lawsuits are pending, consisting of lawsuits
filed and inherited, the agency said. More than 350 lenders have
failed since the start of 2008.  A woman who answered the phone at Dorris’s home in
Scottsdale, Arizona, said he was unavailable. Lamb has no public
phone listing and couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  The case is Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. v. Dorris,
2:11-cv-01652, U.S. District Court, District of Arizona
(Phoenix).  For more, click here.  Comscore Accused in Lawsuit of Installing Data-Mining Software  Comscore Inc. (SCOR) , a company that measures website traffic, was
accused in a lawsuit by two Internet users of surreptitiously
installing data-mining software on their computers.  The company’s secret installation of the programs, which
come bundled with free screen-saver software and other
applications, violates Illinois and U.S. laws including the
federal Electronic Communications Privacy Act, according to a
federal lawsuit filed Aug. 23 in Chicago.  “The scope and breadth of data that Comscore collects from
unsuspecting customers is terrifying,” Californian Jeff Dunstan
and Illinois resident Mike Harris said in their complaint.  Comscore, based in Reston, Virginia, compiles Internet
traffic data from about 2 million consumers in 170 countries and
then markets the information to financial analysts, advertising
agencies and other businesses, according to its own  website .  Harris and Dunstan said the company’s software collects
user names and passwords, credit card numbers, and prices paid
for consumer goods purchased on line, in addition to logging the
sites consumers visited and ads they’ve clicked on.  “We have reviewed the lawsuit and find it to be without
merit and full of factual inaccuracies,” Andrew Lipsman, a
Comscore vice president, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Comscore intends to aggressively defend itself against these
claims.”  The plaintiffs seek a class action status.  The case is Harris v. Comscore Inc., 11cv5807, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  Barclays Sues U.K. Debt Recovery Company Over ‘Misleading’ Name  Barclays Plc (BARC)  sued a U.K. debt recovery company in a
trademark dispute over the use of the name of the U.K.’s second-
largest bank by assets.  Barclays Recovery Services has no connection to the London-
based bank, Barclays said in a statement. The lawsuit was filed
in  London  on Aug. 22.  Under U.K. intellectual property law, company names can be
protected as registered trademarks, according to the
Intellectual Property Office’s website. Infringement may occur
when a logo or name can be confused with a registered trademark,
or where it takes advantage of another company’s reputation.  “The legal proceedings seek to stop Barclays Recovery
Services Ltd. from infringing the bank’s trademarks and engaging
in conduct that is misleading,” Barclays said. “Barclays
values its reputation with its customers and the general public
and will always act to protect its name.”  Barclays Recovery Services, which is registered at an
address on Regent Street in London, doesn’t have a listed phone
number.  The case is Barclays Bank Plc v. Barclays Recovery Services
Ltd., High Court of Justice Chancery Division, HC11C02895.  Lawsuit News  Alabama Immigrant Status Checks May Spark Suits, Judge Says  Alabama’s new immigration law requiring that police
officers check immigrants’ legal status might lead to lawsuits
for unlawful detention, a judge said in a hearing on challenges
to the statute.  “There are a lot of problems with this statute,” U.S.
District Judge Sharon Blackburn in Birmingham, Alabama, said
yesterday in a hearing on three cases filed by the federal
government, groups including the American Civil Liberties Union
and Christian clergy. “My job is to decide if this is
constitutional.”  The measure, to go into effect Sept. 1, requires police
officers to verify the immigration status of anyone they stop
and suspect may be in the U.S. illegally. Businesses must use a
federal database called E-Verify to determine whether job
applicants are eligible to work. And it’s a crime to rent
housing to illegal immigrants.  The U.S. Justice Department and the ACLU argue that federal
law governs the handling of undocumented immigrants. Roman
Catholic, Episcopal and Methodist clergy say the statute makes
it illegal for them to fulfill their mission to feed, clothe and
give communion to undocumented aliens.  Alabama is the fifth U.S. state to enact such legislation.
The three lawsuits are consolidated before Blackburn.  Governor Robert Bentley signed the bill into law in June.  The cases are Hispanic Interest Coalition of Alabama v.
Bentley, 5:11-cv-2484, Parsley v. Bentley, 5:11-cv-2736, and
U.S. v. Bentley, 5:11-cv-2746, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Alabama (Birmingham).  Homeowner Associations in Need of Cash Sue to Force Foreclosures  Members of the Vintage East Condominium Association in
Miami Beach got tired of waiting for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to
foreclose on unit 9, so they sued the bank in February to take
control of the property.  In June, more than four years after the owner stopped
making payments, a judge ruled that JPMorgan lost its claim to
the $144,000 mortgage. The apartment is now on the market for
$87,500, and the association may stave off insolvency with
proceeds from the sale and a new owner who pays monthly dues,
said Jane Losson, a board member at the complex in a telephone
interview. Four of the 11 other owners at the property are also
behind on dues.  Financially troubled condo associations are taking banks to
court as foreclosure delays enable delinquent homeowners to stay
in their buildings for years, often without paying dues that
keep boards running. The groups start by pressuring lenders to
speed up home seizures and take over payment of the monthly
fees. In extreme situations, like the Vintage East case,
associations may force banks to give up rights to the property.  “The lenders are stalling foreclosures,” Ben Solomon, the
Miami Beach attorney for the Vintage East association, said in a
telephone interview. “Our complaints say the banks abandoned
their interest and either need to accept responsibility for the
title or walk away.”  Solomon, whose  Association Law Group  represented homeowner
boards in 16 Florida counties with 15,000 delinquent owners,
also won what he calls “mortgage terminator” lawsuits in
claims against Bank of America Corp.,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Deutsche
Bank AG (DB)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , according to court records.  The bank defendant is usually a trustee for the loan that
was sold into a mortgage-backed security, a legal structure that
can leave the party responsible for a mortgage unclear.  Citigroup and Deutsche Bank declined to challenge lawsuits
brought by Solomon because both banks were trustees, not the
servicers of the delinquent loans, bank representatives said.  In March 2010, Citigroup lost a lawsuit over a Miami Beach
condo with a $136,000 mortgage, according to court filings.
Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for the New York-based
bank, declined to comment, saying Citigroup wasn’t the servicer.  Deutsche Bank in September forfeited its right to a unit
with a $149,300 mortgage to the Palm Aire Gardens Condominium
Association Inc. in Pompano Beach, Florida.  “Litton Loan Servicing, the loan servicer for the loan,
and not Deutsche Bank as trustee, was responsible for all
foreclosure activity relating to the loan,” John Gallagher, a
Deutsche Bank spokesman in New York, said in an e-mail.  Thomas Kelly, a spokesman for JPMorgan in Chicago, declined
to comment on cases in which the bank lost properties to
homeowner associations.  For more, click here.  Viktor Bout Statements to U.S. Agents Coerced, Judge Rules  Viktor Bout, a Russian accused of conspiring to sell
weapons to a Colombian terrorist group, won a bid to bar from
his trial statements he made after U.S. authorities threatened
to abandon him in a Thai prison.  U.S. District Judge Shira A. Scheindlin in Manhattan
yesterday granted Bout’s request to exclude his comments to Drug
Enforcement Administration agents after his arrest in Bangkok,
saying the agents ignored Bout’s request for more time to decide
whether to talk. Bout, 44, said he was told that if he didn’t
speak immediately, he’d be left in a Thai jail to face “heat,
hunger, disease and rape,” Scheindlin wrote in her ruling.  “When coupled with the agents’ deceptive suggestion that
if Bout ‘cooperated’ he could come back to the United States
with them (rather than be ‘abandoned’ in a Thai jail), I find
that this credible threat of violence also materially induced
Bout to make statements,” Scheindlin said.  Albert Dayan, one of Bout’s attorneys, didn’t immediately
return a telephone message left at his office seeking comment on
the decision.  “We respectfully disagree with the judge’s opinion and
plan to request that it be reconsidered,”  Ellen Davis , a
spokeswoman for the Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s office, said in a
statement.  The case is U.S. v. Bout, 08-cr-0365, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 