-- 
San Francisco Airport Sells $355 Million in Refinancing Wave: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-08-25T17:34:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/san-francisco-airport-sells-355-million-in-refinancing-wave-muni-credit.html
San Francisco International Airport,
the  ninth busiest  in the U.S., sold $354.6 million of tax-exempt
and taxable refunding debt yesterday as issuers take advantage
of lower rates to grab savings.  Refinancing deals this year total about $25 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That amount doesn’t
include refundings in combination with new issues. Borrowers are
looking to lower debt-service costs by locking in cheaper rates,
Chris Mier, a managing director at Loop Capital Markets LLC in
 Chicago , said in a telephone interview.  Yields on top-rated 10-year tax-exempt debt hovered at 2.2
percent today, compared with the low for this year of 2.17
percent on Aug. 23. Yields on top-rated 30-year tax-exempt bonds
today were 3.85 percent, from a year-low the day before of 3.82
percent.  “During this last rally in the muni market with rates
coming down as much as they have, there’s no question that
there’s much more refunding activity that’s happening or about
to happen,” Mier said. “The timing is excellent for municipal
issuers to go to the market and refinance older debt that’s on
the books at higher interest costs.”  San Francisco  airport’s refinancing included $106 million
of A+ tax-exempt debt, with the largest portion, $36.9 million,
maturing in May 2025 and yielding 4.03 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 19 basis points below an
index of 14-year tax-exempt A+ rated transportation debt. The
final maturity is in 2030, with $1.3 million of debt yielding
4.49 percent, or 17 basis points below an index of 19-year tax-
exempt A+ rated transportation bond. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Boost to Issuance  Municipal issuers are set to sell $145 billion of total
debt from the beginning of the year through Aug. 26, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s $107 billion below debt
sold in the first eight months of last year. If rates stay low,
refundings will help boost issuance in 2011,  Richard Ciccarone ,
a managing director at McDonnell Investment Management LLC in
 Oak Brook ,  Illinois , said in a telephone interview.  States and municipalities may end up issuing $30 billion of
refunding debt from now through year-end, predicted Loop’s Mier.  “Interest rates are pretty darn low,” Ciccarone said.
“We’re expecting if refundings kick in, it would make a real
difference in the market in terms of supply.”  San Francisco airport  officials reduced the portion of
refinancing that includes tax-exempt bonds and securities
subject to the alternative minimum tax by $132 million to $230
million, because of the jump in yields yesterday, Chloe Weil,
the airport’s debt manager said in a telephone interview from
San Francisco.  Previous Refinancing  Yesterday’s sale by the San Francisco City and County
Airport Commission follows a  $350 million refinancing  at the end
of June that refunded taxable, tax-exempt and AMT bonds.
Maturities and rates for those securities offered easier-to-find
savings than yesterday’s refunding, Cindy Nichol, the airport’s
finance director, said in an interview.        “Now we’re
looking at the high-hanging fruit rather than the low-hanging
fruit, which is very sensitive to what the  interest rates  are,”
Nichol said.  The transaction helped convert $51 million of variable-rate
debt with a  Dexia SA (DEXB)  letter-of-credit into fixed-rate. The
airport will pay $4.6 million to end a swap attached to the
bonds with a notional value of $30 million, Nichol said.  “Our original plan was to replace Dexia with a healthier
commercial bank and because interest rates have fallen so
dramatically in the last month, we decided to fix the bond out
instead,” Weil said.  Yields Ratio  The ratio between Treasury yields and municipal yields fell
yesterday to 95.86 percent after tax-exempts represented more
than 100 percent of Treasuries for most of this month. The
average ratio for 2011 is 91.77 percent. Municipals and
Treasuries became more expensive as investors sold equities
after  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. to AA+ and reports
of a slower economic recovery.  Since Treasury yields have decreased, shorter tax-exempt
maturities may offer issuers the most savings on advanced
refunding deals where the bond proceeds must sit in an escrow
account until the older bonds become callable, Mier said.  “They’re going to have negative arbitrage, but the savings
overwhelm the negative arbitrage,” Mier said, referring to when
escrow earnings fail to match debt-service costs. “And since
the escrow is in effect for a shorter period of time, it’s less
costly in terms of being a subtraction from the net present
savings.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  