-- 
Sand in the Machine the Key to Stable Markets: Mark Buchanan

-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 
2011-08-25T00:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/sand-in-the-machine-the-key-to-stable-markets-mark-buchanan.html
(Corrects ninth paragraph in article published yesterday to
say option instead of futures contract.)  Efficiency is generally a good
thing. We don’t want our  car engines  to waste fuel through
internal friction or the heat from our furnaces to slip out the
window.  Yet there are limits to efficiency’s virtue. It’s no good
having a lightweight super-efficient engine that melts when it
heats up, or clatters into pieces on a bumpy road. For any
technology, too much efficiency can compromise properties that
are required for stability. And stability matters, too.  The same is true in the world of finance. Every modern
economy depends on financial markets to efficiently harness the
“wisdom of crowds” to funnel capital into the most worthwhile
enterprises. But we also want markets to be stable enough not to
periodically collapse or fall into fits of wild gyration.  Following the analogy with engines, we might wonder: Is
there a relationship between efficiency and stability in the
marketplace? Strangely, standard economic theories don’t address
this basic question.  The prevailing explanations of market behavior say plenty
about efficiency. For about 50 years, they have rested on the
idea that markets gather and use information very well, and that
markets become ever more finely tuned as participants gain
access to a bigger set of instruments in which to invest.
Efficient-market theory suggests, in particular, that financial
derivatives should make markets more “complete,” moving them
toward an efficient ideal in which investors can craft their
positions with unlimited precision.  Stability is another matter. In a 2004 report for Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., the economists R. Glenn Hubbard and  William
Dudley  argued that the rise of derivatives made capital markets
more efficient than ever, partly by making it much easier for
banks to manage their risks. “This ability to transfer risk
facilitates greater risk-taking,” they argued, “but this
increased risk-taking does not destabilize the economy.”  Derivatives Erode Stability  History didn’t agree. Neither have other recent studies
that have examined the relationship between market efficiency
and stability. They suggest, contrary to free-market
cheerleading, that insofar as derivatives make markets more
efficient, they also erode their stability and ultimately lead
to financial crises. In other words, the ideal of perfectly
efficient markets may also be one of perfectly unstable markets.  One problem, as identified five years ago by the economists
William Brock, Cars Hommes and Florian Wagener, is that
derivatives tend to amplify any volatility that occurs when
people chase after the latest investing strategies.  The simple logic of their argument begins with the way
investors use derivatives to hedge risk. For example, you may
want to buy Google Inc. stock, but worry that its value might
plummet if another company comes up with a better search engine.
To protect yourself, you buy an option giving you the right to
sell the Google stock at a fixed price sometime in the future.
You may never exercise this option, but having it means you
can’t lose too much even if the stock price falls to a penny a
share.  Reducing risk seems like a good thing, but when investors
face lower risks, they are generally willing to invest more
money and make larger bets. This naturally creates bigger
differences between the payoffs and losses, and leads investors
to move still more quickly from one fund or strategy to another.
Hence, the very act of reducing some risk invites greater market
volatility.  Other research suggests that efficiency may bring on
instability in an even more fundamental way. This has to do with
the notion of economic equilibrium, a state of balance achieved
when all actors in the marketplace behave in their own rational
self-interest. According to theory, any disturbance to the
economy should stir up incentives for more action -- forces that
restore equilibrium.  Working with economists’ standard models of equilibrium,
the Italian physicist Matteo Marsili has explored how market
stability changes as it comes to include a large number of
financial firms selling derivatives. Because these investments
come with risks, purchasers hedge their bets by trading assets
with one another.  Complicated Hedging  Marsili’s mathematical analysis confirms that as the number
of different derivatives increases, the financial firms can
hedge their risks more effectively, so the market gets more
efficient -- just as the prevailing theory suggests. At the same
time, however, as hedging becomes ever more complicated,
instability creeps in. With more and more derivatives, financial
firms have to quickly readjust their holdings to remain fully
hedged.  As the market becomes more precarious, tiny shocks lead to
increasingly large consequences. The market remains in
equilibrium, but just barely, like a pencil balanced upright on
your fingertip. In the limit, as markets reach the ideal of
perfect efficiency, they become utterly unstable. (Some further
technical discussion of the work of Marsili and of Brock and
colleagues can be found on  my blog .)  This conclusion has always been implicit in the models
economists use but, as Marsili points out, “Their emphasis has
always been on efficiency. As far as I know no one has really
looked at stability.”  Instead, economists have generally considered financial
crises to arise from market failures. For example, poorly
designed incentives might lure managers to act against the best
interests of their firms, because they personally profit from
doing so. Or, powerful firms might find ways to manipulate
market outcomes, moving the market away from the perfectly
competitive and efficient ideal. But if instability is a central
condition of efficiency, we should think anew about how to
prevent episodic crises. Traditionally, anything that brings
greater efficiency -- more derivatives, freer markets, less
regulation -- has been considered beneficial. But efficiency is
only part of the story.  Ensuring market safety may require some throwing of sand
into the machinery, giving up a little efficiency to gain
greater stability. The sand might, for example, take the form of
a tiny tax on speculative trading. The trouble is, such a tax
might turn out to reduce efficiency without actually improving
stability, as some economists have argued. We don’t yet know.  What is clear is that no solution can emerge from models
that neglect the importance of stability, and count efficiency
as the sole measure of economic health.  (Mark Buchanan, a theoretical physicist and the author of
“The Social Atom: Why the Rich Get Richer, Cheaters Get Caught
and Your Neighbor Usually Looks Like You,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this article
Mark Buchanan at  buchanan.mark@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  