-- 
Sanderson Farms May Be Profitable in Six Months, CEO Says

-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 
2011-08-25T18:37:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/sanderson-may-be-profitable-in-six-months-on-chicken-supply-cuts-ceo-says.html
Sanderson Farms Inc. (SAFM) , the fourth-
largest U.S. chicken processor, said it may return to a profit
in six months after the company today posted a wider-than-
expected loss in the fiscal third quarter.  “Chicken prices will rise as a result of reduced
production in our industry,” helping the company’s
profitability, Chief Executive Officer Joe Sanderson Jr. said
today in a telephone interview. The Laurel, Mississippi-based
company plans to cut production by 4 percent starting at the end
of this year and into 2012, he said on a conference call with
analysts earlier today.  The net loss was $55.7 million, or $2.51 a share, in the
three months through July compared with net income of $36.1
million, or $1.55, a year earlier, Sanderson said in a
statement. The loss excluding a 65-cent inventory-adjustment
charge was $1.86 a share, wider than the average estimate for a
91-cent loss from 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  U.S. chicken processors lost on average 12 cents a pound in
August, compared with a 14-cent-per-pound loss in July,
according to estimates from Stephens Inc. Chicken producers have
been facing higher feed costs for corn and soybean meal and
lower prices for items such as chicken breasts amid high U.S.
unemployment, the company said in the statement.  Cash prices for corn delivered to the company rose 84.7
percent from a year earlier while soybean meal increased
25.8 percent, the company said.  ‘Nadir in July’  “The poultry industry’s profits hit a nadir in July and
are beginning to bounce,”  Farha Aslam , a New York-based analyst
for Stephens, said in a report today. “We believe that it will
take six months for profits to recover.” Aslam raised her rating
on Sanderson shares to “overweight” from “equal-weight” and
boosted her price target to $48 from $45.  Sanderson Farms rose 6 cents to $40.40 at 1:57 p.m. in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have declined 7.6
percent in the past 12 months.  U.S. chicken production should be down at least 3 percent
in August, a level of cuts not seen since October 2009, Jeff Farmer, a Boston-based analyst for Jefferies & Co. who rates the
shares “buy,” said in a report today. Prices on the Urner
Barry chicken price index, a measure tracked by the industry,
have jumped 9 percent in the past three weeks as a result, he
said.  Supply Cuts  Improved profitability will come from supply cuts rather
than rising demand, the CEO said.  “We don’t see a significant improvement in demand until
unemployment improves, and we don’t see anything on the horizon
where that is going to improve,” Sanderson said.  The company is putting proposed plans to build a second
chicken plant in  North Carolina  on hold “indefinitely” and may
delay the project until the next corn harvest in the fall of
2012, Sanderson said. The company recently opened a new plant in
Kinston, North Carolina.  “I am disappointed that we have to wait,” Sanderson said.
“It will be when we return to profitability first, and we pay
down some of our debt and the U.S. makes a good corn crop and
the price of input costs, corn and soybean meal, comes down.”  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  was the largest U.S. chicken processor
last year, followed by JBS SA’s  Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. (PPC)  and
closely held Perdue Inc., according to WATT PoultryUSA, an
industry publication.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in  Chicago  at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 