-- 
Savage $275,000 Racer Banned From Streets, Burns Up Monticello

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-08-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/savage-275-000-racer-banned-from-streets-burns-up-track-jason-h-harper.html
My outfit is fire retardant: suit,
gloves, lace-up shoes and full-face helmet. I’m ready to charge
into a burning building -- or take a few laps in a $275,000
racecar.  Standing in front of a 650-horsepower rocket on wheels from
 Riley Technologies LLC , I haven’t even crammed myself into the
tiny cockpit. Already my heart is yammering.  For good reason. The  MkXXII Track Day Car , as it’s
officially called, is not legal on streets. With a hood that
angles to a sharp lip and a rear wing that rises into the air
like a cell-phone tower, it is designed for the race track.  I’m at the  Monticello Motor Club . A team of Riley
technicians has removed the back panel off the car to make some
mechanical adjustments to the engine, under the watch of the
company’s president Bill Riley.  “We have an 80 percent winning record at Daytona,” Riley
tells me. The Mooresville, North Carolina-based company builds
race cars, including the Daytona Prototypes that compete in the
 24 Hours of Daytona  endurance race. Several teams in the Rolex
Sports Car Series prefer Rileys, with each choosing their own
engine.  The MkXXII Track Day Car is a slightly less potent version
-- an expensive training tool for the wealthy amateur who hopes
to go to the next level. These “gentlemen racers” often create
their own racing teams, hiring pro drivers with whom they share
driving duties during endurance races.  Le Mans Next  That concept is rare in the world of sport. Imagine playing
doubles with  Roger Federer  at Wimbledon. Riley taps the wing of
the MkXXII. “This is the car when you really want to get
serious and prepare for racing at  Le Mans  or  Sebring .”  “Low maintenance, too,” he says. I squint at his team.
Well, how much does it cost to run? Riley calculates, mentioning
the cost of racing tires, brakes and rebuilding the engine after
50 hours of driving. “Maybe $4,000 an hour.”  Monticello is a private club which caters to the kind of
high-powered guys the company is after. Next summer, its
planning on using Rileys for a customer event, branding it the
world’s fastest racing school.  At a starting price of $225,000, Riley has delivered only a
few Track Day cars to customers, with a build period of four to
six weeks. Riley says one was involved in a “significant”
accident, but the driver was unscathed.  Sobering. I’ll be driving with Monticello’s chief
instructor, Jason Holehouse, in the right seat. He’s there to
give advice or rein me in if necessary. The engine is so loud
I’ll rely on Jason’s hand signals.  Extra Horses  That motor is a 6.2-liter V-8 made by  General Motors Co. (GM) 
Using electronic engine mapping -- a way of digitally
controlling the maximum power output of the engine -- horsepower
can be switched inside the cockpit from an ample 500 to an
insane 650.  The tiny F1-style steering wheel must be removed before
squeezing inside. Strapping myself into the five-point safety
harness, I look over the dashboard, a tableau of arcane switches
which includes a big red pull handle labeled “FIRE.” More
sobering still.  This is a racecar, not a car. At least the transmission is
a six-speed sequential with paddle shifters; simple to operate.
The engine bursts to explosive life and I pull out of the pits,
the car bucking. I’ve got the four-mile track at my disposal,
which includes one of the longest straightaways in the U.S.  Shredding through the first few corners, the Riley manages
turns at a velocity that a road car simply can’t manage. I’ve
driven a Ferrari 430 Scuderia here before and it floats through
these curves, but the grip on the Riley’s racing slicks is just
unreal. (If it starts to rain, though, which the sky is
threatening to do, it will be a terrifying game of asphalt Slip
‘N Slide.)  Steady Hand  Even a gentle swaying of my hands, the kind of thing you
would never notice on a road car, has a profound effect. At 140
mph, the car is veritably weaving. Holehouse will later admonish
me to keep my hands perfectly straight.  The 14-inch-front rotor iron brakes are something to
behold. Coming off a long straight to a tight right turn, I get
on the brakes too early and the car slows so quickly that I have
to speed up again. They could halt a locomotive.  Then Holehouse flips a switch upping the engine’s
horsepower to 650. The change is instantaneous -- a dose of  Red
Bull  and ephedrine. Fast goes to ludicrous. Now we’re slicing
down the course in a roar of blurry speed. On the straightaway I
easily hit 161.  Discretion is the better part of valor with a borrowed
$275,000 racecar, and I find the brakes early again. (Later
Holehouse tells me I used about 50 percent of the available
braking power.)  Ten laps later, we pull in. My racing suit is drenched
inside and I’ll feel euphoric and jittery for hours. Holehouse
grins at me knowingly. “Better than a double espresso, right?”  The Riley MkXXII Track Day Car at a Glance  Engine: 6.2-liter V-8 with 650 horsepower.  Transmission: Six-speed sequential.  Price as tested: $275,000.  Best feature: It’s a real racecar.  Worst feature: It’s a real racecar.  Target buyer: The dedicated amateur racecar driver who  dreams of winning  Le Mans .  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 