-- 
Scene Last Night: James Frey, Salman Rushdie at Booktrack Bash

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-08-25T15:39:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/scene-last-night-james-frey-rushdie-paul-haggis-at-booktrack-s-launch.html
Reading isn’t considered polite at a
party, but the hosts encouraged it at last night’s launch event
for Booktrack, which makes electronic books with soundtracks.  On the fourth floor of  Yotel , in midtown  Manhattan , Chief
Executive Paul Cameron and four models wearing neon-pink wigs
and little black dresses stood before an array of headphones and
iPads set up with  Booktrack  editions.  I got through the first page and spacey ambient music of a
young-adult science-fiction novel called “The Power of Six” by
Pittacus Lore.  Then Cameron switched me to a chapter in “The Adventures
of  Sherlock Holmes  -- the Adventure of the Speckled Band.”  Over the loud music of the party, I made out some popping
sounds.  “It’s the fireplace in the study!” I sleuthed.  Others tested the product in the lounges. These were glass-
enclosed rooms equipped with a stocked bar, large bowls of
chocolate-covered pretzels and male models as hosts. Groups
could read Booktrack editions on large television screens.  Literary agent  Helene Brenkman  said she was skeptical.  “What if you hear an explosion before you get to that
paragraph? The surprise would be spoiled,” Brenkman said.  Cameron said the product measures your reading speed so
that the right sounds arrive at the right time. For slow
readers, the ambient music loops. Sound effects are pegged to
specific words or groups of words, he said.  As the sun set, guests filled the expansive outdoor terrace
for great views of the skyscrapers in Times Square.  “I read actual books,” said Paul Haggis, screenwriter and
director of “Crash.” He has spent the summer reading
“Matterhorn: A Novel of the  Vietnam War ,” by Karl Marlantes.  Rushdie With Sound  Salman Rushdie  said he had listened to some of the
soundtrack for “In the South,” a short story originally
published in the New Yorker magazine. It will be available on
Booktrack this fall.  “It’s about two old men in south  India , on the edge of
death. They are very close friends. It’s funny and sad,” he
said.  James Frey said he uses music when he writes to get him in
the right mood. “If I want to feel rage, I listen to heavy
metal,” Frey said. “If I want to feel romantic, I listen to
Mozart or love songs from the ‘80s.”  Frey’s company, Full Fathom Five, launched the young-adult
series by Pittacus Lore, and Frey stars with the model Petra Nemcova in a short promotional video promoting Booktrack.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 