-- 
Schalke, Atletico Advance in Europa League; Scottish Trio Are Eliminated

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-08-25T23:33:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/schalke-atletico-advance-in-europa-league-scottish-trio-are-eliminated.html
Former champions Schalke and
Atletico  Madrid  advanced to the group stage of soccer’s Europa
League, as Celtic, Rangers and Roma were eliminated.  Klaas-Jan Huntelaar scored four goals as Schalke beat
Helsinki 6-1 last night to claim a 6-3 victory over the two-
match playoff in  Europe ’s second-tier club competition. Atletico
won 4-0 at Vitoria to advance 6-0 over two games.  Scottish champion Rangers lost 3-2 on aggregate following a
1-1 home tie with Maribor, while Glasgow rival Celtic went out
with a 3-1 loss at Sion after a scoreless first leg. Slovan
Bratislava advanced 2-1 over Roma by drawing 1-1 in Italy.  “It was a really disappointing night for Scottish
football,” Rangers manager Ally McCoisttold the British
Broadcasting Corp. “Over the next few days, there will be time
to digest it.”  Edinburgh-based Hearts also exited, going out 5-0 over two
matches to Tottenham. Former champions Spurs,  PSV Eindhoven  and
Anderlecht were among the 38 playoff winners who will be joined
by the 10 playoff losers from the elite  Champions League  in
today’s group-stage draw in Monaco.  Braga, last season’s runner-up to Porto, tied 2-2 at Young
Boys to advance on away goals following an opening 0-0 draw at
home. English clubs Fulham, Birmingham and Stoke also advanced,
as did Lazio, Paris Saint-Germain and  Dynamo Kiev .  Shamrock Rovers became the first Irish team to reach the
group stage of a major UEFA club competition following a 2-1
extra-time win over FK Partizan in Belgrade. Stephen O’Donnell’s
penalty in the 113th minute gave Rovers the victory after the
teams had drawn 1-1 in regulation, matching the result from the
first leg.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 