-- 
Schaeuble Risks Strife Over EFSF Powers, German Lawmaker Says

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-08-25T11:51:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/schaeuble-risks-strife-over-efsf-powers-german-lawmaker-says.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  risks conflict with the country’s ruling coalition as
he pushes a bill through parliament to widen the powers of the
euro’s bailout fund, a senior lawmaker said.  Norbert Barthle , the budget spokesman of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democrats, said in an interview in Berlin
that coalition lawmakers will “scrutinize very closely”
whether Schaeuble plans to shift key decision-making powers over
finance for bailouts to the fund, eroding parliament’s control
over federal spending.  Barthle’s comments follow a Handelsblatt newspaper report
yesterday saying Schaeuble plans to give the fund greater powers
than agreed at a European Union  summit  on July 21. Parliament
would cede “general powers” over rescue measures to the fund,
the European Financial Stability Facility, the newspaper said,
citing what it termed a “secret document” from the  Finance
Ministry .  Handelsblatt failed to note that each euro region state can
shape parliament’s role in the EFSF’s wider remit, Barthle said.
At the same time, lawmakers are wary of ceding control over
federal finances as part of helping Schaeuble shape the EFSF’s
operative scope, he said. “The government is advised not to
tread on lawmakers’ sensitivities.”  Court Ruling  Schaeuble said on Aug. 20 that he expects a Sept. 7 ruling
by  Germany ’s Federal Constitutional Court on the legality of
bailouts for euro region countries to go in the government’s
favor. Lawmakers will follow the court’s instructions regarding
the EFSF bill, parliament President Norbert Lammert said
yesterday.  “Lawmakers are nervous,”  Frank Schaeffler , a parliament
member of the Free Democratic Party that’s part of Merkel’s
coalition, said in an interview today. “Their resolutions or
red lines drawn up this year were broken one by one by the
government, including upholding the independence of the  European
Central Bank .”  The July 21 EU proposals foresee giving the EFSF new powers
to rescue banks, buy sovereign bonds and make loans to euro
region members. German lawmakers aim to pass a revamped EFSF
bill by Sept. 23. From October, they plan to prepare a bill for
the fund’s successor, the European Stability Mechanism.  Two other bills, the 2012 German budget and a new Greek aid
package, will be hammered out in parliament by December, said
Barthle. “In this big picture of legislation to make the euro
stronger and states’ finances fitter we are prepared to trade
some budget competences,” said Barthle. “But nothing can be
taken for granted.”  German Finance Ministry spokesman Martin Kreienbaum
told reporters yesterday that parliament can shape its role in
expanding the 440 billion euro ($635 billion) EFSF.  “If parliament wants to have a different level of
participation than they’ve had up until now, that’s of course an
issue for the parliament and not an issue for the government,”
Kreienbaum said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  