-- 
Serena Williams Draws Jovanovski; Fish Faces Kamke at U.S. Open Tennis

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-08-25T18:12:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/serena-williams-draws-jovanovski-fish-faces-kamke-at-u-s-open-tennis.html
Serena Williams  will face Bojana
Jovanovski of Serbia in the first round of the U.S. Open tennis
tournament, while the highest-seeded American male, Mardy Fish,
will open with Tobias Kamke of Germany.  Williams, who has won the tournament three times and is
seeded No. 28 this year, could face fourth-seeded Victoria Azarenka in the third round. Unseeded Venus Williams will open
with Vesna Dolonts of Russia, according to the main draw
released today on the  tournament website .  Fish is the top-seeded American at a Grand Slam for the
first time in his career, at No. 8.  Andy Roddick , the 21st seed
and last American male to win the tournament, will open against
Michael Russell of the U.S.  Novak Djokovic of  Serbia , the top men’s seed, will face an
undetermined qualifier, and No. 2 Rafael Nadal of Spain, the
defending champion, will play Andrey Golubev of Kazakhstan in
the opening round.  In the women’s draw, top-seeded Caroline Wozniacki of
Denmark will face Nuria Llagostera Vives of Spain in the first
round, and could play  French Open  winner Li Na of China in the
quarterfinals.  The U.S. Open, the final Grand Slam event of the season,
runs Aug. 29-Sept. 11 at the National Tennis Center in Flushing
Meadows, New York, with $1.8 million prizes for the men’s and
women’s singles champions.  Ranked No. 1 on the ATP Tour, Djokovic is seeking his first
 U.S. Open  title. The 24-year-old, who lost in the final last
year, has won three career Grand Slam tournaments, including the
Australian Open and Wimbledon this year.  If the tournament goes according to seeding, Djokovic will
face No. 3 Roger Federer of Switzerland in the semifinals.
Federer, a 16-time Grand Slam champion, is the only player to
beat Djokovic in a major this year, winning in four sets in the
semifinals of the French Open.  Other potential quarterfinals matchups included Maria Sharapova against  Petra Kvitova , a Russian rematch of the
Wimbledon final won by Kvitova, and second-seeded Vera Zvonareva
of Russia against Marion Bartoli of France.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net ; 