-- 
ShengdaTech Panel Wins Order Barring Management From Thwarting Fraud Probe

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-08-25T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/shengdatech-panel-wins-order-barring-management-from-thwarting-fraud-probe.html
The chief executive of  ShengdaTech
Inc. (SDTH) , a Chinese chemical company that gained access to U.S.
investors through a reverse merger, was ordered by a judge not
to obstruct an internal probe.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Bruce T. Beesley in Reno,  Nevada ,
yesterday ordered the company’s management and directors not to
interfere with a special committee’s probe of fraud claims,
according to court papers. The panel, comprised of independent
directors on the  audit committee , was formed in March after KPMG
LLP reported “unexplained issues” in ShengdaTech’s books.  The committee sued Chief Executive Officer Chen Xiangzhi,
the owner of about 42.2 percent of the company’s shares, and
some of the company’s directors on Aug. 20. The complaint seeks
to prevent Chen from regaining control of the company and
quashing the investigation of its finances.  The ruling also bars the defendants from trying to change
the composition of the committee, ShengdaTech said in a
statement yesterday.  The judge’s restraining order will stay in effect until a
Sept. 2 hearing. The company said in a statement that it’s
cooperating with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
which requested documents on Aug. 22.  Chen couldn’t be immediately reached for comment at
ShengdaTech offices, where no one answered the phone before
business hours in  China .  The company listed $295.4 million in assets and $180.9
million in debt as of last Sept. 30 in court papers the special
committee filed Aug. 19.  Reverse Merger  ShengdaTech makes nano precipitated calcium carbonate, or
NPCC, a chemical additive used in automotive and polyvinyl
chloride products. ShengdaTech is the only supplier of NPCC
products to the tire industry in China, according to the
company’s  website .  The company was created in a so-called reverse merger in
2006, when Chen’s Faith Bloom Limited acquired a U.S. company
incorporated in Nevada named Zeolite Exploration Co.  In a reverse merger, a company not listed in the U.S. buys
an American public shell corporation, allowing the new entity to
avoid the scrutiny of an initial public offering.  ShengdaTech traded on the Nasdaq Stock Exchange until
April, when it failed to file an annual report and its auditor
resigned.  The case is In re ShengdaTech Inc., 11-52649,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Nevada (Reno). The lawsuit is in
re ShengdaTech Inc. v. Chen Xiangzhi et al, 11-05082, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Reno).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  