-- 
Shire Self-Injected Anti-Swelling Drug Wins U.S. Approval

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-08-25T16:13:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/shire-self-injected-anti-swelling-drug-wins-u-s-approval-2-.html
Shire Plc (SHP)  won U.S. marketing
approval for Firazyr, the first self-injectable drug to treat
attacks of a rare genetic swelling disease, giving it an edge
over products by  CSL Ltd. (CSL)  and Dyax Inc.  Firazyr was approved for acute attacks of hereditary
angioedema in people aged 18 years and older, the U.S.  Food and
Drug Administration  said in a  statement  today. The therapy has
been approved for use in  Europe  since 2008, and permitted as a
self-administered treatment since March.  The medicine is the first treatment for attacks of HAE that
patients can inject themselves, providing an advantage over
CSL’s Berinert and Dyax’s Kalbitor, both of which must be given
by a doctor. The treatment may generate $48 million in sales
next year and $199 million by 2017, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “They will get market share,” Navid Malik, an analyst at
Matrix Corporate Capital LLP in  London , said in a telephone
interview today. “This will give them really good, strong
differentiation.”  Shire fell 57 pence, or 2.8 percent, to 1,955 pence in
London trading, after earlier declining as much as 5.4 percent
in the session. The company said late yesterday that it was
scrapping development of its Dermagraft skin substitute for leg
ulcers after the treatment failed in a trial.  Fewer than 30,000 people in the U.S. have hereditary
angioedema, the FDA said in the statement. HAE patients have low
levels or improper functioning of a protein called C1 inhibitor,
causing potentially fatal attacks of inflammation in the limbs,
face, intestinal tract and windpipe.  ‘Important New Option’  “The unpredictability of HAE attacks can place limits on
patients’ travel, employment opportunities, educational
opportunities, and social life,” Janet Long, executive vice
president of the U.S. HAE Association, said in a statement
distributed by Shire. “With this approval, patients have an
important new option to treat HAE attacks.”  In three trials, patients who injected themselves with
Firazyr got relief from the symptoms of HAE attacks in a median
of two hours, compared with almost 20 hours in patients who
received a placebo, the FDA said in the statement. The most
common side effects were reactions at the injection site, fever,
increased liver enzymes, dizziness and rash.  A panel of advisers to the FDA voted 12-1 in June in favor
of approving the treatment, and 11-1 in favor of allowing
patients to self-administer it, with one abstention.  Firazyr, also known as icatibant, generated revenue of $11
million last year after being introduced in Europe in 2008.
Including the U.S., it has now been approved in 38 countries,
Shire said in the statement.  Rival Products  CSL, based in  Melbourne , won FDA approval for Berinert in
October 2009 to treat facial and abdominal attacks of the
disease. Two months later, the U.S. regulator cleared Kalbitor
from Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Dyax, for acute attacks in
patients aged 16 or older.  ViroPharma Inc. (VPHM) , of Exton,  Pennsylvania , sells a medicine
called Cinryze, which patients self-administer every three to
four days to prevent attacks of HAE. A fifth drug for the
disease is under development by Leiden, Netherlands-based
 Pharming Group NV (PHARM)  and Santarus Inc. of  San Diego .  Shire gained Firazyr with its acquisition of Jerini AG for
349 million euros ($501 million) in September 2009. The FDA
rejected Firazyr in April 2008, citing questions about its
efficacy.  The drug is the latest from Shire’s genetic-therapies
division, which the company is betting on to reduce reliance on
older treatments such as its attention-deficit disorder pill
Adderall XR.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  