-- 
Shire Falls After Scrapping Dermagraft as Leg Ulcer Therapy

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-08-25T16:12:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/shire-falls-after-scrapping-dermagraft-as-leg-ulcer-therapy-2-.html
Shire Plc (SHP)  fell in  London  trading
after abandoning development of the Dermagraft skin substitute
for the treatment of leg ulcers, three months after it bought
the product.  The drugmaker dropped 57 pence, or 2.8 percent, to 1,955
pence, after earlier declining as much as 5.4 percent in the
session. Dermagraft failed to completely heal leg ulcers in a
late-stage trial, the goal Shire had agreed on with regulators
in the U.S. and  Europe , the company said in a statement late
yesterday.  Shire acquired Dermagraft in May in the $750 million
purchase of Westport, Connecticut-based Advanced BioHealing Inc.
Dublin-based Shire has also had disappointing sales of Resolor,
a drug it gained with the purchase of Movetis NV last year, said
 Justin Smith , an analyst at MF Global in London.  “The poor execution on Movetis, coupled with yesterday’s
news on the ABH deal, is why some investors may now question
Shire’s M&A track record,” Smith wrote in a note today. Still,
the successful integration of Transkaryotic Therapies Inc.,
which Shire bought in 2005, indicates the company’s “expertise
in M&A is solid,” Smith wrote. He rates the stock “buy.”  The shares pared losses late in the trading session after
Shire won U.S. marketing approval for another product, Firazyr,
to treat attacks of a rare genetic swelling disease.  Dermagraft was previously marketed by Smith & Nephew Plc
until 2005 when the London-based company stopped making the
therapy after the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  rejected it
at as a treatment for leg ulcers. Smith & Nephew sold the rights
to Advanced BioHealing the following year. Dermagraft is
approved for treatment of diabetic foot ulcers and had revenue
of $147 million last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  