-- 
France, Spain, Italy Extend Bans on Short-Selling

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-08-25T17:40:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/short-selling-bans-extended-in-france-spain-italy-amid-stock-volatility.html
French, Italian and Spanish financial
market regulators extended temporary bans on short selling
introduced this month in a bid to stem market volatility.  Spain and  Italy  extended their bans through Sept. 30,
regulators in both countries said in a statement.  France ’s
Autorite des Marches Financiers said its ban may last until Nov.
11. The regulators all said they might lift the limits on short 
selling of financial stocks when the market stabilizes.  European bank stocks dropped 8 percent since the measures 
went into effect on Aug. 12, with shares of lenders, including 
Societe Generale SA, hitting their lowest levels since the 
credit crisis of 2008. Lawyers and investors have criticized 
regulators for failing to clarify the scope of the rules.  “If we’re going to endure another 30 days of this, then
regulators must, as a matter of urgency, give the market
additional clarity as to what is and what isn’t prohibited by
the rules,” Darren Fox, a financial services lawyer at Simmons
& Simmons LLP in London, said in a telephone interview.  “The
details are still too vague and there is still far too much
confusion on what these bans actually cover.”  The initial bans introduced by France, Spain and Italy
 lasted  15 days. A similar rule introduced the same day in
 Belgium  is indefinite.  The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index has
fallen 8 percent since the ban first came into effect on Aug.
12.  Societe Generale (GLE)  has dropped 10 percent and Unicredit SpA
has fallen 14 percent during the period.  Greek Ban  The Greek market regulator also said it would reassess its
ban on short selling, which is scheduled to expire Oct. 7,
“before the end of September.”  Greece  was the first country to
institute a ban this month.  Short sellers sell borrowed shares with plans to buy them
back later at a lower price, a practice politicians and some
investors blame for roiling markets.  “Short selling equities is not a significant danger to
financial stability, so these bans are irrelevant,” Richard Portes, professor of economics at  London Business School , said
in an e-mailed statement. “The serious problem is speculation
against financial institutions and sovereigns using naked credit
default swaps. They should be banned.”  The bans show “officials’ nervousness in what are still
quite thin financial markets in the face of deteriorating
economic expectations,”  Richard Reid , the International Centre
for Financial Regulation’s director of research, said in an e-
mail.  German Share Drop  German stocks and index futures tumbled as traders were
whipsawed by speculation that regulators were poised to impose
restrictions on the equity market, and amid concern the nation’s
finances are deteriorating. The  DAX Index (DAX)  retreated 1.7 percent
to 5,584.14 at the 5:30 p.m. close in  Frankfurt , rebounding from
an earlier drop of 4 percent.  German financial markets regulator BaFin said it wouldn’t
expand its existing curbs on short selling. The watchdog has
“all the regulation in place” regarding short selling in
equities, press officer Dominika Kula said.  The  Finance Ministry , which oversees BaFin, also denied
talk that it planned to extend the country’s ban on naked short-
sales of sovereign debt and financial stocks to all
transactions.  The U.K. Financial Services Authority reiterated today that
it has no plans to introduce any restrictions on short selling
beyond current disclosure rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 