-- 
Short Sellers May Spend Another Month on European Stock Market Sidelines

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-08-25T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/short-sellers-may-spend-another-month-on-european-stock-market-sidelines.html
Investors face another month of
short-selling curbs in  Europe  after French, Italian and Spanish
financial regulators extended temporary bans introduced this
month in a bid to stem market volatility.  Spain and  Italy  extended their bans through Sept. 30,
regulators in both countries said in a statement. France’s
Autorite des Marches Financiers said its ban could last as long
as Nov. 11. The regulators all said they might lift the bans on
short selling of financial stocks when the market stabilizes.  The ban didn’t prevent an 8 percent drop in European bank
stocks since it was imposed on Aug. 12 after shares of lenders
including Societe Generale SA hit their lowest levels since the
credit crisis of 2008.  The length of the bans “depend on what the market does and
whether it settles down,” Shailesh Raikundlia, an analyst at MF
Global Ltd. in London, said in a telephone interview. “That’s
not going to happen until the politicians sit down and drum out
some resolution for the crisis. That’s the underlying issue, not
short sellers.”  The initial bans introduced by  France , Spain and Italy,
which were scheduled to begin expiring after markets closed
today,  lasted  15 days. A similar ban introduced the same day in
 Belgium  is indefinite.  The Greek market regulator also said it would reassess its
ban on short selling, which is scheduled to expire Oct. 7.
 Greece  was the first country to institute a ban this month.  September Review  Regulators’ pledge to review the limitations in September
“reflects the fact that the bans will stay under constant
review,” Reemt Seibel, a spokesman for the  European Securities
and Markets Authority , said in a telephone interview. ESMA
coordinates the work of national regulators in the 27-nation
European Union.  The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index has
fallen 8 percent since the bans first took effect on Aug. 12.
 Societe Generale (GLE)  has declined 10 percent and  Unicredit SpA (UCG)  has
dropped 14 percent in that period.  Lawyers and investors have criticized regulators for
failing to clarify the scope of the rules.  “If we’re going to endure another 30 days of this, then
regulators must, as a matter of urgency, give the market
additional clarity as to what is and what isn’t prohibited by
the rules,” Darren Fox, a financial-services lawyer at Simmons
& Simmons LLP in London, said in a telephone interview. “The
details are still too vague and there is still far too much
confusion on what these bans actually cover.”  Short sellers sell borrowed shares with plans to buy them
back later at a lower price, a practice politicians and some
investors blame for roiling markets.  German Futures  German stocks and index futures tumbled as traders were
whipsawed by speculation that regulators were poised to impose
restrictions on the equity market, and amid concern the nation’s
finances are deteriorating. The  DAX Index (DAX)  retreated 1.7 percent
to 5,584.14 at the 5:30 p.m. close in  Frankfurt , rebounding from
an earlier drop of 4 percent.  German financial markets regulator BaFin said it wouldn’t
expand its existing curbs on short selling. The watchdog has
“all the regulation in place” regarding short selling in
equities, press officer Dominika Kula said.  The  Finance Ministry , which oversees BaFin, also denied
talk that it planned to extend the country’s ban on naked short
sales of sovereign debt and financial stocks to all
transactions. Naked short selling is when traders short shares
without ever actually taking possession of them.  The U.K. Financial Services Authority reiterated yesterday
that it has no plans to introduce any restrictions on short
selling beyond current disclosure rules.  “Short selling equities is not a significant danger to
financial stability, so these bans are irrelevant,” Richard Portes, professor of economics at  London  Business School, said
in an e-mailed statement. “The serious problem is speculation
against financial institutions and sovereigns using naked credit
default swaps. They should be banned.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 