-- 
Siemens, Mainstream Win Seabed Site Leases for U.K. Wind Farms

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-08-25T15:54:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/siemens-mainstream-win-seabed-site-leases-for-u-k-wind-farms.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, and Mainstream Renewable Power Ltd. won
rights to lease seabed for offshore wind farms in the U.K., the
world’s biggest market for the technology.  Siemens Project Ventures GmbH and Dublin-based Mainstream
signed agreements with the Crown Estate, the manager of
Britain’s seabed, for two wind farms with a total capacity of
1,000 megawatts off the coast of Yorkshire in northern  England ,
the companies said in a statement sent by e-mail today.  The companies are developing the Hornsea site through their
Smart Wind venture under the so-called  Round 3  offshore wind
program run by the British government. Offshore wind is at the
heart of a plan to meet European Union-set clean energy goals.  Today’s agreements sets out commercial terms for use of the
seabed at the Heron Wind and Njord wind farm sites located
within the Hornsea zone. The companies aim to start building the
first project in 2014. The Hornsea site offers the potential for
4 gigawatts of wind power.  Mainstream, which is involved in more than 7.6 gigawatts of
offshore wind projects in various stages of development in
 Scotland , England and  Germany , also won a lease agreement for
its Neart na Gaoithe project, which would add 450 megawatts.  The park in the Outer Forth Estuary in Scottish waters may
deliver 3.7 percent of Scotland’s electricity demand. Mainstream
plans to submit an application for environmental permits
covering the project this year. It plans to finish financing in
2013.  “The profound electricity future for Europe is about
offshore wind,” Mainstream’s chief executive officer Eddie O’Connor said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  