-- 
Singapore’s First Presidential Poll in 18 Years to Gauge Support for Lee

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-08-27T02:52:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/singapore-ruling-party-faces-test-in-election.html
Singaporeans headed to the polls
today to vote for a president for the first time in 18 years,
giving a gauge of Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s popularity
less than four months after his party retained power with the
lowest support since independence in 1965.  Four candidates are running for the mainly ceremonial role,
including Tony Tan, 71, a former deputy prime minister and the
contender most closely associated with the ruling People’s
Action Party. He left the party in June to run as an independent.
While the PAP hasn’t endorsed any contestant, Lee has said he
supports Tan, who served in ministerial roles under him and his
two predecessors.  Lee vowed to be more responsive to public criticism after
support for his party fell to a record low of 60 percent in the
May general election. A more vocal electorate has stoked debate
on the role of the president, with some candidates pledging to
consult the public and act as a check on the government, which
says such moves would be unconstitutional.  “There is enough of the sentiment carrying through from
the general election that may work against Tony Tan even though
this is a largely ceremonial post,” said Song Seng-Wun, an
economist at CIMB Research Pte in  Singapore . “Even if he does
win, pressure will remain on the PAP to continue to reform.”  No Polls  Voting began at 8 a.m. Singapore time for more than 2.2
million citizens in the former British colony, who will choose a
replacement for President S.R. Nathan from the biggest field of
contenders since direct elections for the office were allowed in
1991. Because Nathan was uncontested for his two terms, no votes
were held. Singapore’s  laws  don’t allow the publication of pre-
election surveys or exit polls.  Of the other candidates, Tan Kin Lian was chief executive
officer of insurer NTUC Income and a PAP member, and Tan Cheng Bock was a ruling party lawmaker. Tan Jee Say was a former civil
servant and, most recently, an opposition politician.  Singapore’s president can veto government budgets and key
public appointments. Those decisions may be overturned by a
majority on the eight-member  Council of Presidential Advisers 
and a two-thirds vote in Parliament -- where the PAP still holds
81 of 87 seats. The president is also responsible for
safeguarding the national reserves.  Among the most prevalent themes discussed by Singaporeans
on Twitter were the role and power of the president and the
significance of the election, according to an analysis conducted
by global public relations company Bell Pottinger.  ‘Disconnect’  “There is currently a disconnect between the
constitutional role of the president and what people would like
to see it evolve to,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at
 Capital Economics  ( Asia ) Pte in Singapore. At first, Tony Tan
had looked like “a shoo-in, but the other candidates have come
out strongly.”  A president would be “acting unconstitutionally” by
engaging publicly on political issues or contradicting the
government, Law Minister K. Shanmugam said in an Aug. 5  speech .
“Direct elections do not give the elected president the right
to speak independently.”  The president must follow the Cabinet’s advice and cannot
act or speak publicly on issues of the day except as advised by
the Cabinet, he said, adding that this followed principles
adopted from English, Indian and Malaysian constitutional law.  “His influence can be considerable, as he can advise the
prime minister on a wide variety of matters,” Shanmugam said.
“Whether the president actually wields influence depends very
much on who the president is. If he is someone who commands
little or no respect, his influence would be limited.”  Checks, Balances  Former opposition politician Tan Jee Say said in a  public
broadcast  on Aug. 18 he will “provide checks and balances on
the government without restraint,” adding that “I can and will
remind them of their lapses without feeling embarrassed. I shall
be their conscience, as well as yours.”  Tan Kin Lian said he would form a President Personal
Council drawn from “many segments of society” to “help me
keep in touch with the people.” Tan Cheng Bock said the
president and prime minister should be physically separated --
the two now work in the same compound.  “There has been much talk about what a president can and
cannot do,” Tony Tan said Aug. 18. People interested in taking
a public stand on issues and opposing the government “should
run for parliament in the next general election.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  