-- 
Sinopharm Profit Jumps 23% After Acquisitions Expand China Sales Network

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-25T09:49:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/sinopharm-profit-jumps-23-after-acquisitions-expand-china-sales-network.html
Sinopharm Group Co. (1099) , China’s largest
drug distributor, posted a 23 percent increase in first-half
profit after it bought companies to expand its sales network.
The stock rose the most in almost two years.  Net income was 785 million yuan ($123 million) in the six
months ended June 30, compared with restated profit of 638
million yuan a year earlier, the Shanghai-based company said in
a statement late yesterday. Earnings beat the 745 million yuan
average estimate of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Sinopharm said it’s almost finished establishing networks
in all of China’s provinces after spending 2.5 billion yuan on
acquisitions in the first six months of 2011. That added 6
billion yuan to revenue, Nomura Holdings Inc. said. First-half
sales jumped 48 percent to 48 billion yuan, compared with 20-to-
25 percent growth for the industry, according to Nomura.  “This is mainly because of more contribution from
acquisitions than expected,” Gideon Lo, a health-care analyst
with Nomura in  Hong Kong , said in a report today.  Sinopharm’s share of the Chinese market was boosted by the
acquisitions, Lo said, which included three companies in
Shanghai and a 60 percent stake in a northern China distributor.  Sinopharm rose 16 percent, the most since Sept. 23, 2009,
to HK$19.40 at the 4 p.m. close in Hong Kong. The stock has
dropped 28 percent this year, compared with a 14 percent decline
in the benchmark  Hang Seng index. (HSI)   ‘Good Entry Point’  “After the recent major share price decline, we believe
the current share price represents a very good entry point,”
said Jinsong Du, a health-care analyst with Credit Suisse AG in
Hong Kong, said in a note today. It rates the stock
“outperform.”  China’s government wants its biggest drug distributors,
including Sinopharm,  Shanghai  Pharmaceuticals Holding Co. and
Jointown Pharmaceutical Group Co., to purchase smaller
competitors to expand their delivery networks under a plan aimed
at improving access to essential medicines.  Sinopharm “may make further acquisitions” of Chinese
companies in the second half of this year, Sinopharm Chief
Financial Officer Jiang Xiuchang told reporters in a press
conference held in Hong Kong. The company does not intend to
make acquisitions overseas, and “currently has no immediate
need of new funds,” he added.  Buy Recommendation  Nomura’s Lo recommends investors buy the stock and expects
it to reach HK$29 in the next 12 months. The earnings
announcement may stem declines, he said.  “We believe it is unlikely to see any major earnings
downgrade after the results, which in our view was the key
concern overshadowing the stock’s share price performance over
the past few weeks,” Lo said.  The amount of net income Sinopharm made from each yuan of
revenue -- its net profit margin -- fell to 1.63 percent in the
first half, compared with 1.97 percent a year earlier, according
to Nomura.  “The negative impact from government’s policies of
lowering drug prices pushed down the gross profit margin
slightly,” Lo said.  Finance costs more than tripled to 344 million yuan in the
first half from 105 million yuan a year earlier, Sinopharm said.
The company’s sale of fixed-rate notes should enable it to
control borrowing costs if  China ’s government increases rates
more, according to Lo.  Sinopharm, which raised $745 million in May through a
shares placement and bond sale, will use most of the funds to
buy retail and distribution businesses in 100 smaller Chinese
cities, Vice President Wu Aimin said in an interview on June 1.
The company sold a further 3 billion yuan of three-year bonds on
Aug. 19.  Daryl Loo, Natasha Khan. Editors: Jason Gale, Nicholas
Wadhams  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7540 or
 dloo7@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong +852-2977-4630 or
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  