-- 
Solarhybrid Plans Biggest Italy Photovoltaic Plant, U.S. Growth

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-08-25T16:29:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/solarhybrid-plans-biggest-italy-photovoltaic-plant-u-s-growth.html
Solarhybrid AG (SHL) , a German developer
of solar projects, is planning Italy’s biggest photovoltaic
plant and set up a U.S. unit to expand in the country.  Solarhybrid, based in Blion, expects to close financing for
a 123-megawatt plant in Italy’s Puglia region in coming weeks,
Chief Financial Officer Albert Klein said today. Construction,
costing about 200 million euros ($287 million), will begin in
November, he said. The largest plant operating in Italy is the
72-megawatt Montalto di Castro project, built by  SunPower Corp. (SPWRA)   “We’re seeing a strongly growing market for large-scale PV
plants because prices for inverters and modules have fallen so
drastically,” Klein said by phone, referring to components. The
company created its U.S. unit as the country is set to become
the biggest market for large-scale solar installations, he said.  Solarhybrid set up a venture with  Solar Millennium AG (S2M)  in
May to operate photovoltaic plants in  North America . On Aug. 18,
Solar Millennium said the world’s biggest solar project, a 1-
gigawatt plant near Blythe,  California , will switch to the
technology for at least half of its generation capacity.  Solarhybrid expects to connect 229 megawatts of capacity to
the grid this year and is working on projects with a combined
capacity of about 1.2 gigawatts for 2012, Klein said.  Last month, the developer confirmed 2011 guidance, saying
it expects sales of as much as 350 million euros and earnings
before interest and tax of 10 million to 15 million euros.  The company has won 250 million euros of orders and expects
to secure another 100 million euros by the year-end, Klein said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  