-- 
Sold-Out Beijing Trains Show Riders Unfazed

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-25T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/sold-out-beijing-bullet-trains-show-passengers-unfazed-by-crash.html
Hao Jian Jun anticipated getting a
cheap seat on a bullet train from Beijing to Shanghai at the
last minute. Instead, he waited four hours to board and paid
triple the price he expected because the line is so popular.  A month after a crash on  China ’s showcase network killed 40
people, Hao and other passengers said they believed bullet
trains were safer, cheaper and more convenient than planes.
Congestion suggests the 221 billion-yuan ($35 billion) line
between the nation’s wealthiest cities may meet an initial goal
of carrying about 70 million passengers a year.  “The high-speed rail is such a breakthrough,” Hao, 43,
said as his train whizzed through the Shandong province
countryside at about 300 kilometers per hour (186 miles per
hour). “It’s reduced travel times so much. Accidents are bound
to happen eventually, but you can’t let one incident overshadow
everything else.”  The July 23 crash near Wenzhou in the southeast occurred
when a high-speed train that stopped after a lightning strike
was rear-ended by a second locomotive. The collision injured
about 190 people and pushed four carriages off elevated tracks.  The accident was likely caused by a design flaw in a
signaling system, state-run Xinhua News Agency said July 28.
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said those found directly responsible for the
collision will be punished.  Long Lines  The first-ever crash on China’s  high-speed system  prompted
authorities to cut the number of trips between Beijing and
Shanghai, slow top speeds to 300 kph from 350 kph, order safety
checks and remove at least three local railway officials.  China CNR Corp., the nation’s second-biggest trainmaker,
subsequently recalled 54 high-speed locomotives because of
issues related to sensors, the company said this week.  None of that mattered to Dong Hua, a sales executive from
Zhejiang waiting in a ticket line at Beijing South station. The
eight counters selling high-speed train tickets had lines of 20-
30 people each.  Dong has taken the bullet train to  Shanghai  at least four
times since services started June 30 and said he prefers it over
planes.  Flights require early arrivals at airports that are about
an hour’s trip outside Beijing and Shanghai’s city centers, so
it takes Dong as much time to fly as it does to ride a cheaper
bullet train that drops him off downtown, he said.  ‘Safer Than Airplane’  “The train is still much safer than an airplane,” Dong,
28, said. “You hear of airplane accidents all the time. You
hardly hear of train crashes.”  Previous trips on the slow-speed train between Beijing and
Shanghai took as long as 13 hours, he said. Some high-speed
services make the trip in as little as four hours and 48 minutes.  The national high-speed rail network opened in 2007 and is
due to reach 16,000 kilometers (9,900 miles) by 2015. The
overall rail system is set to reach 120,000 kilometers under a
2.8 trillion-yuan, five-year investment plan running through
2015.  The Beijing-Shanghai line will move about 180,000
passengers a day initially, Vice Rail Minister Hu Yadong said
June 13. The Ministry of Railways did not respond to a fax
requesting comment on current passenger numbers.  Public Anger  Public ire over the accident is directed more at the
government than the technology, Dong said.  “The Wenzhou crash hasn’t changed my view of these trains,
but it’s altered my view of the  railway ministry ,” he said.
“It would have been much better if they did the safety checks
and inspections before accidents happen, rather than after.”  Yi Hui, 39, stood on the platform before the journey began,
trying to convince her 9-year-old son to pose for a photo next
to the train. Her family flew to Beijing for a four-day holiday
and planned a rail trip back home.  “We wanted our son to experience it,” the Shanghai
teacher said. “It should be safer now after the Wenzhou
incident, shouldn’t it? They would have stepped up safety checks
and put in more precautions.”  As the afternoon train reached peak speed, Jakub Nawrot sat
in the dining car and recounted trying to leave Beijing the day
before. All the tickets were gone, and the remaining 82 for the
next morning’s train sold out while he stood in a 20-meter-long
(66-foot-long) line.  ‘Futuristic’ Allure  The Polish medical student was finishing up a five-week
trip through China and wanted to ride the train before leaving.
He paid 550 yuan for a second-class ticket, about a third the
price of an airline ticket, he said.  Nawrot, 24, was unfazed by the accident, saying he believes
Chinese trains are safer than Polish ones and safer than planes
in general. He has ridden the trans-Siberian train and said he
envied Chinese technology.  “It’s not even modern, it’s futuristic,” he said as the
digital speedometer on the wall showed 300 kph. “The shape of
the train, the color, the surroundings, it’s like a sci-fi
movie.”  In the red seats of business class, passengers ate a
complementary meal of rice with spicy chicken wings, vegetables
and pork, and watched personal TV sets. Hao worked on his laptop
as his neighbor slept on the fully reclining chair.  Hao, who works for a company selling construction and
mining equipment, was getting off in Nanjing, the stop before
Shanghai. He doesn’t like flying between Beijing and Shanghai
because about half of his flights are delayed on the tarmac for
about an hour.  Hao remembered when simple trips took as long as 21 hours
and carriages were so crowded that people slept on the floor at
his feet.  “It’s much more convenient and so much more spacious on
the train,” he said. “I take high-speed rail whenever
possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  