-- 
South Africa Pressed by U.K. to Recall Apartheid Fight, Free Libya Assets

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-25T08:46:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/south-africa-pressed-by-u-k-to-recall-apartheid-past-free-libya-assets.html
U.K. Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  said
 South Africa  should remember the fight against apartheid and
“stand with the Libyan people” by agreeing to unfreeze $1.5
billion of Libya’s assets to help the rebels who have taken
control of most of Tripoli.  Fox said South Africa, which yesterday blocked a U.S.
proposal to release Libyan assets that were frozen by the  United
Nations  to starve  Muammar Qaddafi  of resources, will face “huge
moral pressure” to change its position.  “South Africa, according to its government, is worried
about taking sides. It’s very clear what side the Libyan people
are on and that’s what the South Africans should respond to,”
Fox told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” show. “They wanted the world
at one point to stand with them against apartheid, they now need
to stand with the Libyan people.”  The U.S. yesterday asked the UN Security Council for
permission to release the assets to help the rebels’ National
Transitional Council deliver aid and basic services to the war-
torn nation. The UN body has scheduled a vote on the proposal
for 3 p.m. today in  New York . South Africa, a Security Council
member, doesn’t want the full $1.5 billion released before the
African Union recognizes the rebels as Libya’s government.  Resolution ‘Abused’  “The situation in Libya has been of concern as it has been
accompanied by the undermining of the African continent’s role
in finding a solution,” South African President Jacob Zuma told
reporters in Cape Town Aug. 23. “It remains our view that the
United Nations Security Council resolution 1973 has been abused
to further interests other than to protect civilians and assist
the civilian people.”  Zuma’s administration reiterated that stance today.  The South African government will always approach this
matter in concert with the  African Union  and in the spirit of
multilateralism,” Cabinet spokesman Jimmy Manyi told reporters
in Pretoria. “The government of South Africa condemns any form
of violence and the doctrine of imposed regime change.”  Fox, who said the South African position was
“disappointing,” is a close political ally of former Prime
Minister Margaret Thatcher, who refused to back sanctions
against South Africa’s apartheid regime in the 1980s, preferring
a policy of “constructive engagement.”  Prime Minister David Cameron wrote in 2006 that Thatcher
had made  “mistakes”  over sanctions and her relations with the
 African National Congress , which led the struggle against
apartheid and is now in government in South Africa.  Qaddafi was a supporter of the ANC in its fight against
apartheid, and South African President  Nelson Mandela  visited
Libya while it was under international sanctions in 1997.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  