-- 
South Africa May Need to Raise Benchmark Interest Rate Earlier, IMF Says

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-08-25T15:24:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/south-africa-may-need-to-raise-benchmark-interest-rate-earlier-imf-says.html
South Africa must be “vigilant”
over rising price pressures in the economy that may warrant an
 interest rate  increase earlier than expected, the  International
Monetary Fund  said.  A “pronounced” rise in wages and inflation expectations
may call for a rate increase, though global economic conditions
make it difficult to determine the timing, the Washington-based
lender said in a statement on its website today.  The Reserve Bank, led by Governor  Gill Marcus , has left the
benchmark interest rate unchanged at 5.5 percent this year to
help support the economy’s recovery, even as it forecast
inflation may exceed the 3 percent to 6 percent target band.
Marcus said on Aug. 23 the bank will take “appropriate” action
if the slowdown in the global economy is sustained, fueling
speculation the bank may resume cutting interest rates.  The IMF “encouraged the authorities to remain vigilant
about the pass-through of high international food and fuel
prices,” it said. “A pronounced increase in wages or inflation
expectations would call for policy tightening sooner than
currently envisaged.”  Inflation Accelerates  Inflation accelerated to a 17-month high of 5.3 percent in
July from 5 percent in the previous month, the statistics office
said yesterday. The  Reserve Bank  expects inflation to breach the
6 percent upper limit of its target band in the fourth quarter
and average 6.3 percent in the first three months of 2012.  The IMF’s statement was based on a discussion by the board
of directors on July 25 in  Washington  following the fund’s
annual assessment of South Africa’s policies and the publication
of its Article IV report.  The report said the Reserve Bank should wait for “clear
evidence of a more pronounced increase in  core inflation  or
inflation expectations before raising the policy rate.” The
inflation rate, excluding food and energy costs, was at 3.9
percent in July, the statistics office said yesterday.  Wage demands have climbed this year. Workers at Anglo
American Platinum Ltd., the world’s largest producer of the
metal, have demanded pay increases of as much as 12.5 percent,
while the company has offered 8 percent. Local council workers
went on strike on Aug. 15 for an 18 percent pay increase.  ‘Market Flexibility’  “Increased product and labor market flexibility is
critical to improve competitiveness and inequality,” the IMF
said. The government must “contain public sector wage increases
to avoid distortions in the private sector wage setting.”  South Africa ’s economy will probably expand 4 percent this
year, according to the IMF, higher than the National Treasury’s
estimate of 3.4 percent. The government has said it needs 7
percent annual growth over the decade to cut the jobless rate to
15 percent by 2020 from 25.7 percent currently.  “The key challenges ahead are to support the ongoing
recovery and raise growth to reduce high unemployment and
inequality,” the IMF said.  Citigroup Inc. cut its 2011 growth forecast for South
Africa to 3.4 percent from 3.8 percent previously, it said in an
e-mailed note to clients today. The economy will probably expand
3.5 percent in 2012, down from an earlier estimate of 4 percent,
the lender said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 