-- 
South Korean Banks’ Capital Buffer Climbs for First Time in Three Quarters

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-08-25T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/south-korean-banks-capital-buffer-climbs-on-higher-profit.html
A gauge of  South Korean  banks’
capital strength rose for the first time in three quarters as
profit climbed.  The capital adequacy ratio, a measure of reserves against
assets at risk under the Basel II standard, advanced to 14.36
percent as of June 30 from a revised 14.34 percent three months
earlier, the  Financial Supervisory Service  said in an e-mailed
statement. The ratio stood at 14.55 percent in December.  Lower provisions for bad debts and gains from the sale of
stakes in Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. spurred banks’
earnings last quarter. Combined profit at 18 lenders more than
quadrupled from a year earlier to 5.9 trillion won ($5.4
billion), the regulator said on Aug. 4.  Basel III capital rules agreed by global regulators last
year are likely to force banks to hold more equity and easy-to-
sell assets. While large Korean lenders weathered the global
financial crisis without needing state bailouts, a surge in
funding costs in international markets in late 2008 prompted the
government to guarantee bank debts.  State-run  Korea Development Bank  posted the highest capital
adequacy ratio of 17.27 percent, according to the statement. The
levels for all 18 banks were above the guideline of 10 percent,
it said.  The average Tier 1 ratio increased to 11.59 percent from
11.28 percent at the end of March, the regulator said.  The Financial Supervisory Service will continue monitoring
local banks to secure healthy capital adequacy ratios before
implementing Basel III regulations, the statement said. Domestic
lenders will also need to strengthen their capital bases as
risks such as a global economic slowdown and deterioration in
domestic  household debt  remains, it added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  