-- 
South African Bonds Fall for 2nd Day as Rate-Cut Hopes Fade; Rand Declines

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-25T14:53:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/south-african-bonds-fall-for-2nd-day-as-rate-cut-hopes-fade-rand-declines.html
South African bonds declined for a
second day, sending yields to the highest in more than a week,
after factory-gate prices climbed the most in 13 months in July.
The rand strengthened.  The 13.5 percent notes due 2015 dropped 25 cents to 123.55
rand, driving the yield up three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 6.70 percent, the highest on a closing
basis since Aug. 17. The rand advanced as much as 1 percent to
7.1734 per dollar before paring its gains to trade 0.3 percent
stronger at 7.2251 as of 4:05 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Producer inflation in  Africa ’s biggest economy accelerated
to 8.9 percent in July, from 7.4 percent the previous month,
beating the 7.7 percent median estimate of 15 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Consumer prices quickened 5.3 percent in July,
from 5 percent in June, the statistics agency reported
yesterday, damping expectations of a central bank rate cut that
helped drive four-year bond yields to a record low on Aug. 23.  “Today’s data confirms the rising inflationary pressures
in the economy, and thus should dash hopes for another rate
cut,” Tebogo Mosepele, a Johannesburg-based analyst at Standard
Bank Group Ltd., said in an e-mailed note. “Lack of monetary
accommodation could lead to less appetite for South African
bonds by foreign investors.”  The  Reserve Bank  has kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent this year to help spur
growth in Africa’s biggest economy, even as cost pressures
increase. Governor Gill Marcus said on Aug. 23 the bank will act
“appropriately” if there’s a sustained slowdown in the global
economy, fueling speculation the Monetary Policy Committee may
lower its key rate again.  Fed Meeting  Trading volumes were low as investors held back from bond
purchases before tomorrow’s speech by U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  at  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , said Victor Mphaphuli, who helps oversee about 165 billion rand ($23
billion) of fixed-interest investments at Stanlib Asset
Management.  The dollar rose against the Swiss franc and yen today on
speculation Bernanke will signal a third round of so-called
quantitative easing to revive the world’s biggest economy.  “Nobody is prepared to take a big position with one of the
most important speeches of the year coming up tomorrow,”
Mphaphuli said by phone from Johannesburg. “The numbers out of
the U.S. are still more bad than good.”  The rand extended its gain after U.S. claims for
unemployment unexpectedly rose last week, adding to concern the
 U.S. economy  is faltering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  