-- 
South Africa Producer-Price Inflation Accelerates to Fastest Pace in Year

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-25T12:16:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/south-africa-producer-price-inflation-accelerates-to-fastest-pace-in-year.html
South African producer-price
inflation accelerated at the fastest pace in more than a year in
July, dampening speculation that the central bank may cut
 interest rates  as the economy slows.  The cost of goods leaving the country’s factories and mines
increased 8.9 percent from the year earlier after advancing 7.4
percent in June, Pretoria-based Statistics  South Africa  said on
its website today. The median estimate of 15 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was 7.7 percent. Prices rose 2.7 percent in the
month.  Factory-gate prices may feed through to consumer inflation,
which climbed to a 17-month high of 5.3 percent last month, the
statistics agency said yesterday. Prior to the release of the
July inflation data some economists said interest rates, already
at a 30-year low, may be cut further as global financial turmoil
dims the country’s growth prospects.  The higher than expected consumer and producer inflation
“would have bolstered the case for rate tightening,” Adenaan
Hardien, chief economist at Cadiz Asset Management in  Cape Town ,
said in e-mailed comments.  These are “not normal times. Given
ongoing concerns about the fragility of global activity, the
inflation tolerance is certainly higher,” and the central bank
is likely to leave rates unchanged for the next 12 months.  Slowing Growth  Growth probably slowed to an annualized 1.7 percent in the
second quarter, down from 4.8 percent in the previous three
months, according to the median estimate of nine analysts polled
by Bloomberg. The data will be released on Aug. 30.  The yield on the R157 government bond, due 2015, fell 6
basis points to 6.72 percent as of 1:31 p.m. in Johannesburg.
The rand strengthened to 7.2225 against the dollar from 7.2562
before the data was released.  Inflation “is currently on an upward trend, mainly as a
result of food and energy price pressures, with few obvious
signs of excess demand pressures,” Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus said in a speech in Johannesburg on Aug. 23.  The economy’s performance in the second quarter has “been
disappointing, with both the manufacturing and mining sectors
likely to have subtracted from growth,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 