-- 
South African Foreign Land Ownership May Carry Conditions, Ministry Says

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-25T11:30:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/south-african-foreign-land-ownership-may-carry-conditions-ministry-says.html
South Africa ’s government
backtracked on a plan to ban foreign nationals from owning land
in the country, saying some sales should instead be subject to
restrictions.  A draft land-reform policy released by the Ministry of
 Rural Development  and Land Reform today proposes a four-tier
tenure system, with foreigners being allowed to own freehold
property with “precarious tenure, with obligations and
conditions.” The document, which will be released for public
comment before a draft law is written, didn’t spell out what the
conditions were.  “The objective is to protect sensitive land,” such as
farms and coastal areas, Sunday Ogunronbi, the land department’s
head of policy research and legislation development, told
reporters in  Pretoria . “The kind of conditions and obligations
we are expecting is to be able to say to a foreigner intending
to purchase large-scale agricultural land” that all the produce
may not be exported.  The government’s land-redistribution policy aims to
compensate black South Africans for the seizure of their
property under white-minority rule, which ended in 1994.  Gugile Nkwinti, the minister in charge of land reform, said
in February last year that the government didn’t have the 75
billion rand ($10.4 billion) it needed to meet its target of
distributing 30 percent of farmland to black farmers by 2014.  Land Recommendations  A government-appointed panel recommended in February 2006
that property sales to foreigners be suspended until new laws
were drafted to ensure more black South Africans were able to
buy homes.  The government held off on implementing the recommendations
after Pam Golding Properties Ltd. and other property brokers
warned that such restrictions would deter foreign investment.  President  Jacob Zuma  told a ruling-party rally in the
northern town of Polokwane in January that foreigners could be
restricted to leasing land in South Africa.  Land laws should ensure “all South Africans, blacks in
general and Africans in particular, have a reasonable access to
land with secure rights,” the draft policy says. “Undoing the
social, economic and cultural effects of centuries of
discrimination and exclusion on the basis of race will take time
and an enduring national political effort.”  It proposes the establishment of an independent commission
that will advise the government on land management and
regulation, and a land valuer-general to help determine property
valuations and fair compensation for anyone whose property is
legally expropriated.  About 91 percent of South Africa’s 50.6 million people are
black, of mixed race or of Asian descent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 