-- 
Spain Negotiates Fiscal Rule Amid Socialists’ Fear of Electoral ‘Suicide’

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-08-25T12:41:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/spain-s-rubalcaba-seeks-flexible-fiscal-rule-amid-socialist-party-unease.html
Spain ’s ruling Socialists are in
negotiations to make a constitutional amendment on budget
discipline “flexible” amid unease about the measure in the
party’s ranks, a senior official said.  Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba, the party’s candidate for premier
in elections on Nov. 20, wants the amendment to allow for
policies to “guarantee the welfare state,” his campaign
manager, Elena Valenciano, said today. Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, who isn’t running for re-election, said on
Aug. 23 he had the backing of the opposition  People’s Party  to
enshrine budget rules in the constitution, prompting criticism
from some members of his party.  Socialist opponents of the budget rule include Antonio Gutierrez, a lawmaker and former union leader who said in an
interview broadcast by Television Espanola today that the
measure amounted to “political suicide.” Jose Antonio Perez
Tapias, a member of parliament, wrote on his  blog  that
Zapatero’s proposal left the party “naked like victims of a
shipwreck, barely survivors of our own political project.”  Zapatero, who has angered his traditional allies with
public-sector wage cuts and changes to  labor laws , risks
dividing the Socialist Party three months before general
elections that polls indicate it will lose. His proposal to
write budget discipline into the constitution follows similar
plans by France, Germany and  Italy  and is part of efforts to
stem a surge in borrowing costs.  “People have certain trouble understanding this issue, and
agreeing with it,” Valenciano said in an interview with  Radio
Nacional  today. It’s “relatively serious” that there should be
such disagreements, she said, adding that she understands the
reason for the criticism.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  