-- 
Stieg Larsson Opens Cold, Murderous World of Scandinavian Noir

-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 
2011-08-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/stieg-larsson-trio-opens-cold-killing-world-of-scandinavian-noir-books.html
There’s more to Scandinavia than
pine-scented forests and crystal-clear lakes, as the world was
forcefully reminded by Norwegian gunman Anders Behring Breivik.  Stieg Larsson made the same point to great success in “ The
Girl With the Dragon Tattoo ” and its sequels. Yet Larsson was
not the first of the region’s writers to explore its dark side.  His posthumously published Millennium trilogy, with its
brooding critique of  Sweden ’s misogyny and neo-Nazism, is only
the most famous example of a literary phenomenon whose roots can
be traced back to the 1960s, when Maj Sjowall and Per Wahloo’s
 Martin Beck series  found an international readership, and
continued with the work of  Henning Mankell  and  Peter Hoeg .  And just as Nordic noir didn’t begin with Larsson, so
publishers are eager that it doesn’t end there, either. A
blizzard of contenders for his mega-selling mantle is sweeping
bookstores. Translated from Norwegian, Swedish and Icelandic,
they emanate a gloomy Scandinavian angst that seems uncannily
suited to the economic moment.  We’ve donned our (thermal) deerstalkers to finger six of
the most compelling. Leading the lineup is Lars Kepler, whose
first book, “ The Hypnotist ” (Farrar, Straus and Giroux), is a
grisly psychological thriller.  It pivots on a triple homicide in a Stockholm suburb. The
sole survivor, a 15-year-old old boy, lies in a coma after
sustaining more than 100 knife wounds. To discover what he has
seen, Detective Inspector Joona Linna calls on a sometime
hypnotist, Dr. Erik Maria Bark, whose actions unleash far more
than a witness statement.  Camilla Lackberg  Former economist Camilla Lackberg sets her thrillers in the
Swedish coastal village of Fjallbacka, where she grew up. Like
so many picturesque communities, it’s a place of closely guarded
secrets and stifling silences. Often, motives turn out to be
buried decades in the past.  Start at the beginning of her series with “ The Ice
Princess”  (Free Press), the story of a local beauty found
frozen in a bathtub, or skip to “ The Preacher ” (Pegasus), in
which a fresh corpse sheds gruesome light on the fate of two
long-lost girls.  Both books feature coffee-guzzling writer Erica Falck and
diligent Detective Patrik Hedstrom. Intricately plotted, they
move at a cinematic clip, zigzagging between plot strands and
viewpoints to give your little gray cells a workout.  Jo Nesbo  Jo Nesbo’s resume includes not only stints as a stockbroker
and financial analyst, but a spell as a soccer player and
frontman for a Norwegian rock band.  His appealingly hard-boiled sleuth is Inspector Harry Hole,
an Oslo native who struggles with booze and authority, and has a
distinctive scar running across his face.  Harry’s past cases include savage bank robberies and a
serial killer whose calling card is a red diamond in the shape
of a star. “ The Snowman ” (Knopf), his most recent U.S.
release, will ensure you’ll never look at Frosty in quite the
same way again.  In his personal life, Arnaldur Indridason’s Inspector
Erlendur Sveinsson has a broken marriage and a heroin-addict
daughter to his name. Professionally, he’s a veteran of the
Reykjavik police force and 11 novels, most of which have been
translated into English.  Indridason’s latest, “ Operation Napoleon ,” is due from
Minotaur in September. It’s a stand-alone, so while you won’t
meet Erlendur, you will find U.S. military secrets, a missing
Icelander and a German bomber that crashed on a glacier in 1945.
Its interest in Iceland’s history is typical of Indridason’s
deftly structured thrillers.  Hakan Nesser  Hakan Nesser is Swedish, though he sets his most successful
series in a fictitious northern European country. There,
Inspector Van Veeteren plays chess and philosophizes his way to
arrests.  At the start of “ The Inspector and Silence ” (Pantheon),
the latest installment, he is mulling the idea of quitting the
force for an antiquarian bookstore. Then comes a call from a
colleague in a tranquil lakeside town.  The bodies of a string of girls have been found. All were
enrolled at a summer camp run by a sect known as Pure Life and
nobody will talk.  The scene of the crime in Karin Fossum’s novels is often
the idyllic Norwegian village of Elvestad, where Inspector
Konrad Sejer lives with his dog.  A quiet middle-aged widower, Sejer nevertheless has ghosts
of his own, and he is called upon to face them in “Bad
Intentions” (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt) when the bodies of
troubled young men begin surfacing in nearby lakes.  It’s an intimate study of broken lives that showcases
Fossum’s poet past while recalling the gnawing psychological
tension of P.D. James’s novels.  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 