-- 
German Stocks Drop Amid Speculation of Extended Short-Sale Bans

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-08-25T14:43:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/stocks-in-germany-extend-their-decline-benchmark-dax-index-tumbles-3-7-.html
German stocks fell as much as 4
percent, the biggest drop this week, amid speculation regulators
in  France , Spain and Italy will extend a ban on short-selling.  Utilities and health-care companies led the decline, with
EON AG, the nation’s biggest power company, tumbling 3.7 percent
and Bayer AG sliding 3.8 percent. The DAX lost 2.3 percent to
5,549.09 at 4:43 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  “It looks like someone fears the update today from French
and Spanish regulators will extend the short-selling ban,” said
Michael Scholz,  executive director  for client solutions and
derivatives at WestLB in Dusseldorf. “It was a strange move
selling the DAX futures in 30 minutes. Someone may be preparing
their portfolio for tomorrow.”  European Union stock-market regulators will decide as soon
as today on whether to extend temporary bans on short selling
that they introduced this month in a bid to stem market
volatility.  Authorities in France, Spain and  Italy  must all decide
whether to extend the restrictions, which are due to expire over
the next 48 hours. A spokeswoman for France’s Autorite des
Marches Financiers, who declined to be identified, said the
regulator will announce a decision after markets close today.  “Everyone is trying to explain the selloff with rumors of
a German downgrade or a German short-sale ban or even that the
EFSF is going to be delayed because of the pope’s visit to
 Germany ,” said Lex van Dam, a London-based fund manager at
Hampstead Capital LLP, which oversees $500 million. “I think
the real reason is there was a huge multi-billion-dollar sell
order in the DAX futures. The DAX is now the preferred hedge
after many people can’t short the Euro Stoxx anymore, and the
market just doesn’t have the liquidity to absorb that in such a
short time frame.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  