-- 
Strauss-Kahn Case Shows Gut Feel Trumps Law: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-08-25T19:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/strauss-kahn-case-shows-gut-feel-trumps-law-margaret-carlson.html
If only we could turn the Dominique Strauss-Kahn case over to the writers of “ Law & Order ” to
provide the order we crave. It violates our sense of justice to
have one of our front-page dramas end without a finding of right
and wrong.  What the DSK story shows -- as did Casey Anthony and  O.J.
Simpson  before -- is that the legal process and our sense of
justice aren’t the same. Forensic evidence collected by the
police -- semen, saliva, ripped pantyhose, a torn ligament,
vaginal bruising -- was sufficient corroboration of Nafissatou
Diallo’s complaint to pull DSK out of his first-class seat on
Air France. It was enough for many of us to question his
innocence, even after her many embellishments and lies.  All of this suggests that something untoward happened in
that room, and it’s hard for many to buy that a woman who had
worked without incident for three years in a hotel would one day
see a naked man coming at her and consent to his advances
because she could make a buck off it.  Without a trial, we are unlikely to have the chance to sort
out the claims and counterclaims. Both parties cast themselves
as victims: DSK, who had to resign as managing director of the
 International Monetary Fund , probably won’t become the president
of  France  because the race to challenge  Nicolas Sarkozy  has
moved on without him. Diallo, a Muslim immigrant who went from
hair-braiding and working in a bodega to her hard-earned
position as a hotel maid and had just been assigned her own
floor to clean, is unlikely to continue her climb. Life is
relative.  Mucked Up  It’s hard not to feel that Diallo was ill-prepared for what
lay ahead. Few in immigrant society actively engage the justice
system; even fewer go up against the rich and powerful. Diallo
mucked things up in a multitude of ways.  Not all these things must be present to make for a very
poor complainant, but they all came into play with Diallo. She
talked way too much, DSK not at all until his lawyer,  Benjamin Brafman , this week triumphantly explained the Sofitel encounter
between two strangers as a “momentary lapse of judgment that was
not criminal.”  It goes against every instinct of a prosecutor to drop a
case, but that is what Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr. did at a press conference that took place as a real
earthquake was hitting. Rather than wound Vance -- who has the
challenge of filling the shoes of his predecessor, the legendary
Robert Morgenthau -- the DSK case should enhance him.  Vance’s Credit  He has nothing to be ashamed of. With incriminating
evidence, he took the word of a poor, black, Muslim immigrant
over that of a famous European man. The U.S. might have had
legal problems extraditing DSK if he were on French soil, so the
risk was high that had he flown off, he wouldn’t have returned
for trial.
The way DSK’s lawyer learned that Diallo had credibility issues
wasn’t through his own efforts but because Vance did the right
thing and quickly: He turned over exculpatory evidence. It’s
required by case law but not always done when it comes with the
large serving of crow a prosecutor must eat publicly.  The case has had other effects. It has, for instance,
emboldened French women. Writer Tristane Banon has filed a
criminal complaint against DSK over an alleged assault in
February 2003. Two others accused Civil Services Minister
Georges Tron of a sexual attack. He has resigned over the
incident. The age of looking the other way may be coming to an
end.  If this case is ever ripped from the headlines for a prime-
time police procedural, it will have a more satisfying ending.
As unsatisfying as this one is, there are virtues in this
particular conclusion. Be thankful we have a judicial system
where our gut sense of fairness can prevail -- even if it
doesn’t meet a set standard of proof.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
David Shipley at 
 djshipley@bloomberg.net . 