-- 
Strauss-Kahn’s Travel Documents Returned to Him After Charges Are Dropped

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-08-26T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/strauss-kahn-s-travel-documents-are-returned-to-him-by-n-y-prosecutors.html
Former  International Monetary Fund 
chief  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , who won dismissal of sexual-
assault charges in New York, was given back his travel documents
by prosecutors, his lawyer said.  The documents were seized after Strauss-Kahn was taken from
an Air France flight at  John F. Kennedy International Airport 
and arrested on May 14. His lawyer  Benjamin Brafman  confirmed in
an e-mail that the documents were returned yesterday and
declined to comment further.  Justice Michael Obus of New York State Supreme Court on
Aug. 23 granted Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.’s
request to dismiss the indictment against Strauss-Kahn, 62. Obus
rejected the accuser’s bid for a special prosecutor, a decision
that an appeals court upheld.  Strauss-Kahn was accused of sexually assaulting a hotel
maid. Charges were dropped after prosecutors said she lied
repeatedly to them and others.  “I can’t wait to go back to my country, but I still have a
few things to do before going,” Strauss-Kahn, speaking in
French, told reporters on Aug. 23 outside the Lower Manhattan
townhouse where he has been staying since May.  David Hawley , a spokesman for the International Monetary
Fund in  Washington , said that Strauss-Kahn, who resigned his
position following his arrest, may visit the IMF as early as
next week.  Welcome at IMF  “Like any former managing director of the IMF, Mr.
Strauss-Kahn would be welcome to visit the fund,” Hawley said.
“I understand that he intends to make a personal visit” to
meet with the staff.  A poll released yesterday showed that French voters want
Strauss-Kahn to avoid speaking out in the 2012 presidential
race.  The CSA institute survey for 20 Minutes, RMC radio and BFM
TV showed that 53 percent of the respondents said he shouldn’t
engage in politics in the coming months.  Twenty-three percent said they want him to participate in
the Socialist Party primary in October, and 19 percent want him
to back a candidate, according to the poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York 
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 