-- 
Swaps Below RBI Rate for First Time in 15 Month Signal Halt: India Credit

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-08-26T05:57:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/swaps-below-rbi-rate-for-first-time-in-15-months-signal-halt-india-credit.html
For the first time in 15 months,
traders in the swap market are anticipating the Reserve Bank of
 India  will stop raising  interest rates  and may start to ease
policy in the next year as the economy slows.  The cost to lock in one-year borrowing costs dropped below
the central bank’s 8 percent benchmark rate this month for the
first time since May 2010 and was 7.73 percent today, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap has narrowed 58 basis
points in August, compared with 110 in  Brazil  and 37 in  China .  India’s central bank has boosted borrowing costs 11 times
since March 2010, the most of the biggest emerging nations known
as the BRICs. The bid to contain inflation will probably cut
economic growth, according to Morgan Stanley and  Standard
Chartered  Plc, which have both reduced their forecasts for India
this year. Gross domestic product rose 7.6 percent in the three
months through June, the least since the fourth quarter of 2009,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg ahead of data next week.  “Swaps are signifying that the market is expecting the end
of the rate-hike cycle as growth slows,” Vivek Rajpal, a Mumbai
based fixed-income strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in
an interview yesterday. “Easing at some point of time is
possible, but it may be in the form of liquidity-easing
measures, not necessarily a cut in interest rates.”  Swap Movements  India’s swap rates, which are pegged to the overnight
money-market rate, climbed to a three-year high of 8.37 percent
on July 27, a day after the  Reserve Bank  unexpectedly raised
borrowing costs by 50 basis points, or 0.50 percentage point.
The cost needed to receive floating payments for one year
dropped the most this month since December 2008 after traders
pared expectations for rate increases on signs the global
economy is slowing.  The one-year swap rate in Brazil is at 11.5 percent, one
percentage point below the nation’s benchmark rate. In China,
the 3.80 percent swap rate compares with the one-year deposit
rate of 3.50 percent. In  Russia , which doesn’t target one policy
rate, the gauge is 5.31 percent, 52 basis points above the
three-month MosPrime interbank rate, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Traders use swaps to guard against fluctuations in
borrowing costs.  India’s bonds have rallied amid evidence  Asia ’s third-
biggest economy is slowing. Manufacturing grew in July at the
slowest pace in 20 months, the Purchasing Managers’ Index
compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed this
month. Car sales fell in July from a year earlier for the first
time since January 2009, the  Society of Indian Automobile
Manufacturers  said on Aug. 10.  Bond Returns  The yield on benchmark 7.8 percent rupee-denominated notes
due in April 2021 has dropped 17 basis points this month to 8.28
percent, according to the central bank’s trading system. The
yield rose three basis points today before a debt auction, where
the central bank will sell 110 billion rupees ($2.4 billion) of
securities due in 2018, 2021 and 2027, according to the
government’s debt calendar.  India’s bonds due in 10 years yielded 600 basis points more
than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries yesterday, down from a
record-high 621 basis points reached on Aug. 18. Sovereign rupee
notes returned 1.7 percent this month, outperforming four of 10
Asian debt markets, according to indexes compiled by HSBC.  The central bank may signal it is equally concerned over
slowing growth and inflation when it meets next on Sept. 16,
according to Mumbai-based Religare Capital Markets.  Growth Outlook  India’s economy  may expand 7.2 percent in the year through
March, compared with an earlier prediction of 7.7 percent,
Morgan Stanley said on Aug. 1. Standard Chartered cut its
forecast on July 26 to 7.7 percent from 8.1 percent. Increases
in wholesale prices, which have held above 9 percent for eight
months, will retreat to 7 percent by March, the Reserve Bank
said in a statement on July 26.  “The RBI’s predominant concern until now was inflation,
but now growth is also suddenly coming on the radar,” Jay Shankar, a Mumbai-based chief economist at Religare Capital,
said in an interview on Aug. 24. “I hope they won’t raise rates
in September.”  Policy makers will need to raise borrowing costs
aggressively to attract global investors, according to Mumbai-
based IndusInd Bank Ltd. International funds’ holdings of rupee
debt totaled $21.7 billion as of Aug. 24, according to the
 Securities & Exchange Board of India , below the $50 billion
ceiling set by the government.  ‘No Option’  “To attract global investors you need to keep inflation
below the growth rate,” J. Moses Harding, a Mumbai-based
executive vice president at IndusInd Bank, said in an interview
on Aug. 24. “I think the RBI has no option but to deliver a
half percentage point rate hike in September.”  Harding predicts that the 10-year bond yield will be about
8.15 percent by December.  The rupee has dropped 4 percent this month, headed for the
biggest slide since May 2010, as exchange data show global funds
reduced holdings of Indian stock by $2 billion. The currency was
little changed at 46.0738 per dollar today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost of insuring the debt of  State Bank  of India
against default using five-year credit-default swaps has climbed
this month. The contracts rose 81 basis points to 273, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated
markets.  The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The central bank will raise borrowing costs by 25 basis
points in September before pausing for the rest of the year,
Shubhada Rao, chief economist at Mumbai-based Yes Bank Ltd.,
said in an interview on Aug. 23.  “While we expect RBI to remain significantly hawkish in
its tone, we believe that the interest-rate cycle is close to
peaking,” Rao said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  