-- 
Sweden Can’t Ignore Market Turmoil in Rate Setting, Oeberg Says

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-08-25T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/swedish-economic-performance-in-line-with-forecasts-oeberg-says.html
Sweden ’s central bank can’t ignore a
global stock slump that threatens to retard economic recoveries
in the U.S. and  Europe  as policy makers prepare for next month’s
interest rate meeting, First Deputy Governor Svante Oeberg said.  “One thing that I think is important is how this turbulence
in the financial markets, or this sort of optimism or pessimism,
how that will affect growth in different countries,” he said
yesterday in an interview in Umeaa, Sweden. “That’s something
we’ll really have to think hard about because that affects
basically our exports and can also affect domestic demand.”  Stocks have plunged globally, with Sweden’s OMX index
declining 14 percent this month, amid concern growth is slowing
in the U.S. and Europe. Swedish exporters face sagging demand
and  Electrolux AB (ELUXB) , the world’s second-biggest appliance maker,
says this will be a “difficult” year. The largest Nordic economy
relies on exports for half its economic output.  Investors and traders are betting the central bank will
abandon a plan to raise rates twice more this year after last
month forecasting a rate of about 2.5 percent by the end of 2011
and more than 3 percent at the end of 2012. The bank has
increased rates seven times over the past year from a record-low
0.25 percent. Oeberg, who will leave the bank at the end of this
year, has backed each increase.  Forecasts Slowdown  Oeberg said yesterday that there are some economic
indicators that show growth may be “a little weaker than
estimated” while earlier in a speech saying that rates are
still low and that economic developments have “largely” been
in line. The bank forecasts a slowdown in economic growth to 2.2
percent next year from 4.4 percent this year, he said.  The next rate announcement is on Sept. 7.  A Bloomberg survey published yesterday showed analysts
expect the bank to scrap its tightening plans. Policy makers
won’t raise its benchmark lending rate next month from today’s 2
percent and will only lift the rate twice more by the end of
next year, according to the median estimate in the survey.  Swedish forward rates show investors are betting the
Riksbank may cut rates to about 1.5 percent by the end of next
year with the December 2012 contract at about 2.10 percent. The
contract settles to the three-month  Stockholm  interbank offered
rate, which typically has a rate of about half a percentage
point more than the Riksbank’s benchmark.  Confidence Plunges  Economic data released yesterday showed  consumer confidence 
plunged this month to the lowest in two years, manufacturing
confidence declined to the lowest since April 2010 and household
lending grew at the slowest pace since at least 2002. A survey
by the  National Institute of Economic Research  also showed 12-
month inflation expectations eased to 2.5 percent from 2.9
percent last month.  “The Riksbank recognizes that the economic environment has
deteriorated abroad, but the impact on Sweden is still
uncertain,” said Olle Holmgren, an economist at SEB AB in
Stockholm, commenting after the speech by Oeberg. “The Riksbank
has probably not decided what to do with the repo rate at the
September meeting. Should financial markets calm down, a rate
hike is still possible in September.”  Economic growth in Sweden’s biggest export market,  Germany ,
was just 0.1 percent in the second quarter. In the U.S., the
 Federal Reserve  pledged to keep rates at a record low through
mid-2013 to sustain an expansion in the world’s largest economy.  Ruled Out?  Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borgsaid Aug. 19 the risk
of a worldwide recession has risen, after warning the government
needs to cut its economic growth forecast “significantly.”  The economy rebounded 5.7 percent last year, after a 5.3
percent contraction in 2009 when a decline in global trade
forced Swedish exporters to cut thousands of jobs. Sweden’s
gross domestic product grew an annual 5.3 percent in the second
quarter, after expanding 6.4 percent in the first.  “As we see it, the main problem for the Riksbank is that
risks have increased,” said Torbjoern Isaksson, a chief analyst
at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in Stockholm. “The price to pay for
postponing the rate hike in September should also be considered
fairly small. Therefore, we expect the Riksbank to stay on hold,
although a rate hike can’t be ruled out completely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  