-- 
Swiss Stocks Decline, Snapping Three-Day Rally as Novartis Shares Decrease

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-08-25T16:11:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/swiss-market-index-climbs-for-fourth-day-ubs-credit-suisse-holcim-rise.html
Swiss stocks declined for the first
day in four after U.S. jobless claims climbed more than expected
and speculation mounted that regulators will impose further
restrictions on equity markets.  Health-care companies led losses, with  Novartis AG (NOVN) ,
 Europe ’s second-biggest drugmaker by sales, declining 1.3
percent.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Switzerland ’s second-largest
lender, climbed 1.4 percent as Switzerland and the U.K. reached
a tax agreement.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, lost 30.31, or 0.6 percent, to
5,298.18 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich. The gauge has tumbled
21 percent from this year’s high on Feb. 18 amid concern that
European leaders won’t contain the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis and that the U.S. recovery will stall. The broader Swiss
Performance Index declined 0.4 percent today.  European Union stock-market regulators will decide as soon
as today on whether to extend temporary bans on short selling
that they introduced this month in a bid to stem market
volatility.  Fed policy makers meet this weekend in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming , at an annual conference. Bernanke told Congress in July
that the Fed’s options to bolster the economy include increasing
the average maturity of its bond portfolio and cutting the
 interest rate  on excess reserves, as well as buying more debt
and keeping rates low.  “I expect nervous trading -- the mood is skittish in the
extreme,” said Jon Cox, head of Swiss research at Kepler
Capital Markets in Zurich. “It’s a sad state of affairs that
the market is waiting for the utterances of civil servants, for
example central bankers, for direction when political leadership
and agreement is desperately needed.”  U.S. Unemployment  A Labor Department report today showed that initial claims
for jobless benefits climbed by 5,000 to 417,000 in the week
ended Aug. 20. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a
drop in claims to 405,000, according to the median forecast. The
gauge earlier climbed as much as 1.4 percent.  A Commerce Department report tomorrow will probably show
that gross domestic product grew 1.1 percent in the second
quarter, compared with a previous estimate of 1.3 percent,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Novartis, Lonza Slide  Novartis declined 1.3 percent to 44.99 Swiss francs.  Lonza
Group AG (LONN) , a supplier to drug companies, slipped 1.9 percent to
48.84 francs.  Clariant AG (CLN) , the world’s biggest maker of printing-ink
chemicals, lost 1.9 percent to 8.63 francs.  Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the
world’s largest producer of crop-protection chemicals, dropped
1.5 percent to 236.40 francs.  Credit Suisse gained 1.4 percent to 22.04 francs and  Julius
Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the 121-year-old wealth manager, rose 0.9
percent to 30.24 francs.  Switzerland and the U.K. reached an agreement to end a
dispute over  tax evasion  by wealthy Britons holding offshore
accounts with Swiss private banks.  Swiss banks will pay 500 million francs ($628 million) to
the U.K. government to cover their clients’ failure to declare
their savings in the past. The lenders will be reimbursed from
taxes paid by their customers. Banks will also levy a
withholding tax of 48 percent on investment income and 27
percent on  capital gains  earned by Britons with offshore
accounts, according to the two governments.  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN)  climbed 1.8 percent to 102.40 francs
after Ralph Hebgen, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc.,
raised the stock to “market perform” from “underperform.”  Valora Holding AG (VALN)  gained 4.6 percent to 218.10 francs, its
highest price in three weeks. The company posted first-half net
income of 26.3 million francs, compared with 26 million francs a
year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  