-- 
Syria Forces Kill 25 Protesters in Past Two Days

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-08-25T14:27:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/syria-forces-kill-25-protesters-in-past-two-days.html
Syrian security forces have killed
at least 25 protesters in the past two days as activists and
opposition groups prepare for a conference aimed at presenting a
 united front  against President Bashar al-Assad’s rule.  At least 13 anti-government demonstrators were shot dead
yesterday in the central city of Homs, the eastern town of Deir
al-Zour and the suburbs of the capital, Damascus, Mahmoud Merhi,
head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, said by phone.
At least 12 people were killed on Aug. 23 across the Hama
governorate, Homs and the northern province of Idlib, he said.  Factions of a largely fragmented opposition aim to gather
as many as 300 members when the conference is held in about two
weeks, Merhi said, adding it’s unclear who is organizing the
event. Some opposition members said this week they have formed a
National Council to coordinate their activities. One faction,
the Antalya Group, said it wouldn’t participate.  The latest developments come as the U.S., Britain and
 France  seek to freeze Assad’s assets and impose an arms embargo
on Syria. The three countries circulated a draft resolution to
United Nations Security Council members that would freeze the
foreign assets of Assad, his brother Maher, who commands a
Syrian army division, and 21 other senior government officials.  Residents of Deir al-Zour and areas near the port city of
Latakia heard gunfire today, Merhi said. The state-run  SANA news
agency  said eight soldiers were killed in two attacks today by
“armed terrorist groups” in Homs.  ‘More Intense’  Assad has used tanks, armored vehicles, artillery and
helicopters to crush the most serious threat to his family’s 40-
year rule. The uprising began five months ago after revolts
ousted the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt  and sparked conflict in
 Libya .  “Tomorrow may be more intense than previous Fridays as
it’s the last day of Ramadan,” Merhi said, referring to the
Muslim fasting month that began on Aug. 1. Friday, the holiest
day of the week for Muslims, has galvanized thousands to protest
midday after prayers. At least 1 million people took to the
streets on several Fridays in the last six weeks.  Ali Farzat , a satirical cartoonist who has published work
critical of the government, was attacked and beaten early today,
Merhi said. A fan page on Facebook said four people stopped
Farzat and put him in a bag, targeting his hands as they beat
him and threatening to kill him if he ever drew again before
throwing him on a road leading to Damascus airport.  Turkish Fatality  Several pictures of Farzat lying in a hospital bed with his
right forehead and both hands bandaged were uploaded to
Facebook. Farzat’s work is published in  Syria , other Arab
countries and in France’s Le Monde.  Turkey ’s ambassador to Syria traveled to a suburb of
Damascus to retrieve the body of a Turkish national killed by
security forces, Al Arabiya television said, citing activists.  The  UN Human Rights Council  on Aug. 23 ordered an
investigation into the crackdown on protesters, including
possible crimes against humanity.  At least 2,400 people have been killed since the protests
started, according to Merhi and Ammar Qurabi of the National
Organization for Human Rights in Syria. The UN puts the death
toll at more than 2,200. At least 500 members of the security
forces have died, the government has said.  Assad, who succeeded his father as president after his
death in 2000, has blamed the protests on foreign-inspired
plots. In an interview on state television from Damascus on Aug.
21, he rejected U.S. and European demands to step down and
pledged to schedule parliamentary elections by February and
review the constitution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 