-- 
U.K. Police Charge 22 Year Old in ‘Anonymous’ Hacking Probe

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-08-25T13:29:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/u-k-police-charge-22-year-old-in-anonymous-hacking-probe-1-.html
A 22-year-old man was charged with
computer offenses by U.K. police investigating attacks on
companies carried out by the hacking group Anonymous.  Peter David Gibson, a student from Hartlepool,  England , was
charged with a conspiracy to impair the operation of a computer
or hinder access to a program or data, the Metropolitan Police
in  London  said today in a statement. Gibson had been arrested
along with five others by officers in connection with so-called
denial of service attacks against several companies, the police
said.  Anonymous is alleged to have targeted companies including
EBay Inc.,  Sony Corp. (SNE)  and Visa Inc. Denial-of-service attacks
flood computer networks with requests for information until they
shut down.  Police declined to give out information on how to contact
Gibson or his attorney.  Anonymous, which is made up of hundreds of members around
the world, is said to have targeted companies hostile to
Wikileaks, an organization which posts confidential documents on
the web. EBay’s Paypal unit suspended the Wikileaks account,
while Visa Europe Ltd. stopped payments to the site.  Authorities in several countries have begun investigations
into Anonymous and its members. Prosecutors in the U.S. have
arrested and charged 14 people in connection to the attacks.  Spanish police arrested three suspected members of
Anonymous in June. The group hacked the websites of Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA,  Spain ’s second-biggest bank, and Enel
SpA, the Italian owner of Spanish power company Endesa SA,
Spanish police said.  U.K. police are also investigating another hacking group,
LulzSec, which is accused of carrying out denial of service
attacks on the Serious Organised Crime Agency. A teenager from
the Shetland Islands in  Scotland  was arrested in July and later
charged with computer offenses, including creating a fake news
story claiming News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  had died.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Kit Chellel in London 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 