-- 
U.K. Retail-Sales Gauge Fall to Lowest Since May 2010, CBI Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-08-25T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/u-k-retail-sales-gauge-fall-to-lowest-since-may-2010-cbi-says.html
A U.K. retail-sales index fell to
its lowest level since May 2010 in August as Britons bought
fewer clothes and household goods amid a continuing squeeze on
household budgets, the  Confederation of British Industry  said.  Retailers saying sales volumes decreased from a year ago
outnumbered those reporting increases by 14 percentage points,
compared with 5 points in July, the London-based business lobby
said in a report today. A separate quarterly index showed the
pace of selling-price inflation eased.  U.K. consumer confidence fell in July to a three-month low
and sentiment may drop further after Britain had its worst
rioting since the 1980s and concern about a cooling global
economic recovery wiped trillions of dollars off equity markets,
 Nationwide Building Society  said today. The  Bank of England  kept
its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low this month as the
faltering recovery outweighed the risk of rising prices.  “As expected, August was a tough month on the high
street,” Judith McKenna, chief operating officer of
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda unit and chair of the CBI’s
distributive trades panel, said in a statement. “Sales volumes
fell at a pace not seen in over a year, as consumers have
continued to see their real incomes squeezed by a combination of
inflation and weak wage growth.”  The slowdown in growth in August was led by clothing
demand, which fell at its fastest pace in two years, while big-
ticket retailers reported a “poor sales performance” and
household goods saw trading decline “sharply,” the CBI said.
An overall expectations gauge for September was at minus 7,
indicating stores see the pace of sales decline easing next
month.  ‘Worst’ Trading Conditions  Co-operative Group Ltd., the U.K.’s largest mutual
retailer, said today full-year profit will not reach 2010 levels
as the economic slowdown bit “deeper than anyone had
expected.” Trading conditions are “the worst I have seen in
over 40 years of retailing,” Chief Executive Officer Peter Marks said in a statement.  While an index of selling prices for the three months
through August fell to 55 from 63 in the quarter through May,
inflation pressure remains “elevated,” the CBI said.  “This survey suggests that prices will rise more slowly in
the coming months and savvy retailers will continue to offer
consumers the lowest prices possible, but with energy and
commodity costs still high, families’ spending power looks like
being constrained for some time,” McKenna said.  Demand on suppliers decreased this month, with an index of
orders falling to minus 22, the lowest since May 2010, from
minus 13 in July. A gauge of the volume of stocks in relation to
expected demand rose to a three-month high of 22. Orders volumes
fell at the fastest pace since May last year.  A quarterly measure of retailers’ business situation
dropped 9 points to minus 11, the lowest reading since February
2009. Today’s CBI report is based on a survey of 81 retailers
between July 28 and Aug. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  