-- 
Fed’s Monetary Policy Stance May Fuel Inflation, India Central Bank Says

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 
2011-08-26T04:30:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/u-s-fed-s-monetary-policy-may-spur-inflation-india-s-central-bank-says.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s decision to
keep record-low  interest rates  and the possibility of further
steps to spur the U.S. economy may stoke commodity prices and
fan inflation in India, the Asian nation’s central bank said.  “Given the fiscal limitations and growing signs of
weakness in the U.S., the Fed has already indicated that it will
pursue its near-zero rate policy at least till mid-2013,” the
 Reserve Bank of India  said in a report in  Mumbai  yesterday. “It
has also hinted at another dose of quantitative easing. This
policy stance may keep the commodity prices elevated.”  The Reserve Bank has struggled to contain the fastest
inflation among major economies even after raising rates 11
times since mid-March 2010. Emerging-market officials are
waiting to see whether Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will signal
a third-round of asset purchases, known as quantitative easing,
at a speech in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , today.  “All eyes are on whether there will be more quantitative
easing,” said  Siddhartha Sanyal , chief India economist at
Barclays Plc in Mumbai, who worked at the Reserve Bank from 1999
to 2007. “Should there be a QE3 and commodity prices rise, the
RBI would probably maintain its tight policy stance to quell
inflation pressures.”  The yield on the 7.8 percent India government bond due
April 2021 rose 2 basis points to 8.27 percent in Mumbai at 9:46
a.m. The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index gained 0.3
percent, and the rupee was little changed at 46.07 per dollar.  Bernanke Speech  Bernanke’s speech, entitled “Near- and Long-Term Prospects
for the  U.S. Economy ,” is part of an annual symposium hosted by
the Kansas City Fed since 1982 beside the Teton mountains.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation rate has stayed
above 9 percent since the start of December and was 9.22 percent
in July after the government allowed state-run companies such as
Indian Oil Corp. to increase diesel costs. The Reserve Bank’s
repurchase rate is 8 percent.  “On a year-on-year basis, inflation may remain stubborn in
the near term and start falling sometime in the third quarter of
2011-12,” according to the central bank’s report, which
reiterated the Reserve Bank’s inflation forecast of 7 percent by
the end of March 2012.  India’s growth prospects this fiscal year are “relatively
subdued” compared with the previous year because of
“increased” global uncertainties, “persistent” inflation
pressures and higher borrowing costs, the central bank said.  ‘Trend’ Growth  The economy may expand “close to the trend of about 8
percent” in the year through March after 8.5 percent growth in
the previous year, the  Reserve Bank  said, repeating its earlier
prediction.  If global financial problems “amplify and slow down global
growth markedly,” it would “impart a downward bias” to the
growth projection, the central bank said.  “While the immediate challenge to sustaining growth lies
in bringing down inflation, growth sustainability over the
medium-term depends on addressing the structural bottlenecks
facing the economy,” the Reserve Bank said.  The cost of hauling goods on Indian roads is 30 percent
more than in the U.S. because of inefficiencies, resulting in
higher prices and lower competitiveness that curb growth,
according to McKinsey & Co. India’s finance ministry estimates
the nation produces about 10 percent less electricity than it
needs.  ‘Brace Up’  “The Indian economy needs to brace up for a difficult year
from a macroeconomic perspective,” the central bank said.
“With weak supply response, inflation remains an important
macroeconomic challenge.”  As a result, both “fiscal and monetary space is limited
for any counter-cyclical stimulus if global conditions
deteriorate,” the central bank said.  Growth in the U.S. has slowed since early 2010, when gross
domestic product expanded at a 3.9 percent annual pace. GDP rose
at a 1.3 percent rate in the second quarter of this year after a
0.4 percent pace from January through March, according to the
Commerce Department.  India ’s central bank said “global uncertainties have
increased markedly” since  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S.
credit rating on Aug. 5.  “The S&P action came at a time when there were increasing
signs of growth slowing down in the major advanced economies,
especially the U.S.,” according to the Reserve Bank report.
“The likely impact of these developments on the Indian economy,
going forward, will depend upon the effect it will have on
trade, capital flows and global commodity prices.”  While the risk of a global slowdown prompted nations from
 South Korea  to  Indonesia  to keep rates unchanged this month,
Reserve Bank Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said yesterday India’s
policy stance will change when inflation is “less of a
problem.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  