-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Aug. 23 (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-08-25T12:28:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-aug-23-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln,  Nebraska :  Summary: Locally heavy showers provided drought relief in the
nation’s mid-section and across the Atlantic Coast states.  In
contrast, increasingly hot, dry weather mitigated the benefits
of recent rainfall on the southern Plains.  Mid-Atlantic and Northeast: For a second consecutive week,
locally heavy showers further improved drought conditions across
much of the region.  In particular, rainfall totals in excess of
2 inches (pushing two- week totals in many areas over 5 inches)
eased or eradicated lingering drought across central and eastern
 Maryland  and adjacent portions of Delaware.  Rain (0.5 to 2
inches) in western  New York  also provided some additional relief
from Moderate Drought (D1).  However, coastal portions of  New
England , where soil moisture percentile rankings indicated
ongoing Abnormal Dryness (D0), largely missed this week’s
rainfall.  Farther inland, 60- to 90-day precipitation continued
to run less than 50 percent of normal across eastern West
 Virginia  and western and northern Virginia, with declining
streamflows and soil moisture supporting an increase of D0.  Southeast and Mississippi River Delta: A narrow but heavy band
of rain (locally more than 5 inches) provided some additional
relief from Moderate to Severe Drought (D1 and D2, respectively)
along the North Carolina/South Carolina border.  In  Florida ,
widespread, locally heavy showers (2 to 5 inches) likewise
supported additional improvements from drought, most notably in
southern and eastern portions of the peninsula.  In contrast,
central and northeastern  Alabama  wrestled with increasingly dry
conditions, with little if any rainfall over the past 30 days
causing streamflows and soil moisture to decline.  Consequently,
drought designation was increased in these parts of the state.
In southeastern Tennessee and northern Georgia, precipitation
deficits continued to mount, with 90-day rainfall now standing
at 25 to 50 percent of normal; therefore, Moderate Drought (D1)
was introduced to reflect the precipitation shortfalls and
rapidly declining soil moisture and streamflow percentile
rankings.  In the Delta, scattered, mostly light showers in
southern portions of the region were insufficient to provide
drought relief.  Additionally, hot weather (highs reaching 105-
108F) in the southern Delta increased evaporative losses, and
rain will be needed to soon to prevent drought conditions from
worsening. Rain was somewhat heavier (locally up to 2 inches) in
northern sections of Mississippi and  Arkansas , resulting in
small improvements in the overall drought situation.  Ohio Valley and Midwest: Abnormally dry conditions have
persisted over the past 60 days from eastern South Dakota
eastward into southern portions of Minnesota and Wisconsin as
well as adjacent portions of northern  Iowa  and  Illinois .  Many
areas have reported less than 50 percent of normal rainfall
during this timeframe, with some locales reporting less than 25
percent of normal.  Consequently, D0 was expanded across most of
this region, as crop conditions continued to reflect the impacts
of the drier-than-normal weather.  However, a narrow band of
showers and thunderstorms sliced through the middle of the new
Abnormally Dry region, dropping locally more than an inch of
rain.   In Indiana, expansion of Moderate Drought (D1) was a
reflection of increasing precipitation deficits over the past 60
days, with rainfall running 4 to 6 inches below seasonal norms
(25-50 percent of normal). Farther south and west, moderate to
heavy rain swept southeastward out of eastern Nebraska and
southwestern Iowa into  Missouri  and northeastern  Kansas .  Totals
exceeded 2 inches over a large area, with some locations
receiving more than 5 inches.  As a result, reductions in
drought intensity were made in the areas of heaviest rain.  Southern Plains: In  Texas  and southern  Oklahoma , above-normal
temperatures (up to 11F above normal, with highs eclipsing 105F)
and sunny skies rapidly offset the benefits of early month
rainfall. Consequently, after recent localized improvements,
drought intensified over many of the remaining D2 and D3 areas
(Severe to Extreme Drought), with the vast majority of Texas and
Oklahoma back under Exceptional Drought (D4).  To point, pasture
and range condition was rated 90 and 96 percent poor to very
poor in Oklahoma and Texas, respectively, as of August 21.  180-
day rainfall deficits exceeded 12 inches in southwestern
Oklahoma and north-central Texas, and were locally in excess of
20 inches along the southeastern Texas coast.  Farther north,
scattered, mostly light showers offered little if any relief
from Severe (D2) to Exceptional (D4) Drought from southern
Kansas into southeastern Oklahoma, where daytime highs likewise
rose well into the lower 100s (degrees F).  Severe Drought (D2)
was expanded eastward across southeastern Kansas to account for
declining streamflow and soil moisture percentiles, as well as
increasingly dry conditions out to 90 days (locally less than 50
percent of normal).  Rain will be needed soon to ensure
sufficient soil moisture for winter wheat planting and
establishment.  Northern Plains: Despite a mostly dry week, cooler-than-normal
conditions (2 to 7F below normal) along with recent abundant
rainfall kept most of the region out of drought or Abnormal
Dryness (D0).  The pocket of D0 in southwestern  South Dakota  and
northeastern  Wyoming  remained unchanged.  Four Corners Region: Moderate to heavy showers (locally more
than 2 inches) provided some relief from Moderate to Exceptional
Drought (D1 to D4) from southeastern  Colorado  into southwestern
 New Mexico  and southeastern Arizona.  Drought reduction was most
pronounced in southeastern Colorado and northeastern New Mexico,
where rain was heaviest.  In addition, updated soil moisture
percentiles and Standardized Precipitation Indices (3 to 6
month) indicated much of the Extreme and Exceptional Drought had
abated due to recent rainfall. Remote-sensing data (Vegetation
Health Index and the VegDri Index) likewise indicated recent
greening in the aforementioned areas.  In contrast, short-term
dryness across the High Plains of central Colorado reduced soil
moisture for winter wheat planting, with D0 added to this area
to account for the increasing concern.  Alaska,  Hawaii , and Puerto Rico: In Alaska, light showers
(mostly less than an inch) and near-normal temperatures were
reported, with no change made to the southern Abnormally Dry
(D0) area.  In Hawaii, Moderate Drought (D1) was expanded
eastward on the Island of Maui to reflect declining pasture
conditions.  There were no changes made elsewhere in Hawaii.  On
Puerto Rico, heavy rain from Hurricane Irene resulted in
flooding, with no dryness or drought concerns likely over the
upcoming weeks (or longer).  Looking Ahead:  While interests in the eastern U.S. will closely
monitor the path and intensity of Hurricane Irene, the rest of
the nation will contend with mostly dry, warmer-than-normal
weather. Irene?s final track will determine how rain falls in
drought areas from  Georgia  northward into the Mid-Atlantic and
Northeast; current projections suggest most of the heavy rain
will be along the coast and immediate environs.  Somewhat cooler
conditions will prevail in the Corn Belt, while most of the
Plains, Mississippi River Delta, and Southeast will experience
late-summer heat.  Scattered showers are possible from the
Dakotas southward into Kansas and central Oklahoma, but the rain
is not expected to be heavy enough to provide much ? if any ?
drought relief.  Potentially heavy monsoon showers are possible
in northern New Mexico and Colorado.   The NWS 6- to 10-day
outlook for August 30 to September 3 calls for drier- and
warmer-than-normal conditions across much of the nation, with
the greatest likelihood of heat and dryness centered over the
south-central U.S.  Above-normal rainfall will be confined to
the northern-most Plains, while cooler-than-normal conditions
will be limited to the Pacific Coast states.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  