-- 
U.S. May Buy Looted Libyan Missiles Sold in Mali’s Black Market

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 
2011-08-26T04:01:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/u-s-may-snap-up-qaddafi-s-missiles-in-mali-black-market-to-soak-up-supply.html
The fall of Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  has kicked off a race to recover key types of weapons
taken from his stockpiles, such as shoulder-fired anti-aircraft
missiles, by getting U.S. operatives to buy them before
terrorists do.  There is evidence that a small number of Soviet-made SA-7
anti-aircraft missiles from Qaddafi’s arsenal have reached the
black market in  Mali , where al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb is
active, according to two U.S. government officials not
authorized to speak on the record.  The disintegration of Qaddafi’s four-decade dictatorship
has created a business opportunity for looters trafficking in
the war-stricken country’s missiles, which would enable
terrorists to attack military or civilian aircraft. With a
buyback program, operatives on the ground seek out the sellers
and offer high prices to recover the weapons.  “A buyback program is now critically important,” said
Matt Schroeder, director of the Arms Sales Monitoring Project at
the Federation of American Scientists, in a telephone interview.
“In  Iraq , hundreds of missiles were recovered like this and in
 Afghanistan  in the 1990s.”  There is no evidence of looting of Libya’s chemical
weapons, which have been under 24-hour watch via aerial
reconnaissance, electronic surveillance and agents on the
ground, according to U.S. officials.  Wrong Hands  The  potential proliferation  of Libyan small arms, portable
weapons and old artillery shells that can be made into roadside
bombs is a threat the U.S. considers serious and has taken
urgent steps to combat, according to a State Department official
who was not authorized to discuss the threats.  “We’re very concerned about those weapons turning up in
neighboring countries,” Frederic Wehrey, a senior policy
analyst at the RAND Corp. in  Santa Monica ,  California , who has
been studying the Libyan uprising, said in a telephone
interview. “They’re the ideal terrorist weapon -- portable,
easy to use and capable of inflicting large numbers of
casualties.”  Army General Carter Ham, head of the U.S. military’s Africa
Command, told the Senate Armed Services Committee on April 6
that Libya once had as many as 20,000 surface-to-air missiles.
“Many of those, we know, are now not accounted for, and that’s
going to be a concern for some period of time,” he said.  Missile Prices  The Soviet SA-7 and SA-7b, an updated model, are the main
shoulder-fired missile in Qaddafi’s arsenal. The units are about
five feet long and sell on the black market for several thousand
dollars, although the price fell as low as $500 when  Saddam Hussein ’s weapons were looted and flooded the market after the
2003 U.S. invasion of Iraq, according to a 2004 report from the
Federation of American Scientists.  “This is a dangerous problem, clearly,” Lynn Pascoe,
United Nations under-secretary-general for political affairs,
told reporters yesterday in New York. “When you have this many
weapons around, one priority is to start seeing how you re-
gather some of these weapons.”  “At this point, it’s a bit early to say exactly how it’s
going to be done,” Pascoe said.  It isn’t known whether the Libyan missiles have been
maintained and remain functional, Schroeder said. In Iraq and in
Afghanistan, which has both U.S.- and Soviet-made shoulder-fired
missiles, many had dead batteries and other problems that
rendered them inoperable.  Destroying Weapons  The U.S. State Department is giving $3 million to two
international non-profit organizations operating in  Libya  to
secure and destroy weapons and munitions. The groups have been
working since early May in coordination with Libya’s National
Transitional Council.  The Obama administration said in May that it was committing
$1.5 million to  collect and destroy  Libya’s missiles and other
light weapons, according to a July 6 report by the  Congressional
Research Service .  NATO aircraft have kept Qaddafi’s vast military and
industrial complex there under constant surveillance since the
rebellion began in February, and asked rebel leaders to look for
signs of mustard gas or other chemical or biological weapons.
The surveillance includes Libya’s two main chemical weapons
depots, which are at Sebha and Rabta, according to the two U.S.
government officials.  No WMD Evidence  “All sensitive elements of Libya’s nuclear program,
including everything that Libya received from the A.Q. Khan
network, were removed in early 2004,” U.S. State Department
spokeswoman Victoria Nuland told reporters in  Washington . “The
last of the highly enriched uranium, the bomb-making fuel, was
removed from Libya in 2009.”  Libya does have a supply of yellow cake, a uranium
concentrate powder used to make bombs, and it’s safeguarded at
the Tajoura nuclear research facility, Nuland said.  Mustafa Abdel Jalil, chairman of the Libyan National
Transitional Council, said yesterday in Benghazi that no
chemical or biological weapons have been found since rebel
forces entered the capital, Tripoli, this week.  Libya agreed in 2003 to destroy its chemical weapons, which
at the time included an estimated 25 tons of mustard gas and
some 3,300 bombs and artillery shells equipped to deliver.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  New York  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  