-- 
U.S. Stimulus Would Stoke India Inflation, Envision Capital Says

-- B y   T a n y a   A s h r e e n a
-- 
2011-08-25T10:09:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/u-s-stimulus-would-stoke-india-inflation-envision-capital-says.html
Nilesh Shah, managing director at
Envision Capital Ltd., comments on his outlook for the Indian
stock market. Shah spoke by phone from Mumbai today.  On markets:  “The markets have been under pressure. I think it’s been
aggravated by selling coming in from foreign institutional
investors, which got triggered by the U.S. downgrade, followed
by a slowdown of the local economy. Markets will consolidate and
we will see a price correction. Markets will look forward at the
central bank’s next meeting in mid-September as well as macro-
economic data in terms of inflation and growth. As long as
there’s moderation there, markets will continue to
consolidate.”  On valuations:  “I think the most important positive is valuations.
Markets are trading at valuations which are attractive and at a
discount to long-term averages.”  On QE3:  “QE3 would provide short-term liquidity. You could see
liquidity in risky assets globally. The real issue is that it is
not going to structurally benefit economies like  India  because
we have a different set of problems. If at all, QE3 could raise
prices of commodities, which in turn could stoke inflation,
which is negative for a country like India.”  Investors are awaiting a speech tomorrow by Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  that may signal if he’s planning
further stimulus measures, including a third round of asset
purchases, known as QE3. India’s $1.7 trillion economy grew 7.6
percent in the June quarter, the smallest gain in six quarters,
according to the median forecast of 22 economists before a
report due on Aug. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Ashreena in Mumbai at 
 tashreena@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  