-- 
UN Must Assist Libya’s Transitional Council, Davutoglu Says

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-08-25T13:46:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/un-must-assist-libya-s-transitional-council-davutoglu-says-1-.html
The  United Nations Security Council 
should create the framework for Libya’s National Transitional
Council to access frozen assets and meet “urgent” financial
needs, Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said.  The council’s recent military advances show there’s all the
more reason for the international community to recognize it as
the legitimate ruler of Libya, he said in Istanbul today at the
sixth meeting of the Libya Contact Group. Davutoglu said he is
“hopeful” the new government will be represented at the
UN when the General Assembly convenes in September.  Libya faces “formidable challenges” and the international
community must “empower” the new government as the country
reaches a “historical turning point,” he said. The North
African nation’s priorities as it topples  Muammar Qaddafi  after
42 years in power are to form a national congress and set up an
interim government, he said.  “Today we are all proud and pleased with the developments
on the ground,” Davutoglu said. “A credible political process
is key for the stabilization of the situation in Libya and the
preservation of its national unity.”  Libyans should take responsibility for the reconstruction
process, he said. The new government should work to preserve
state institutions and integrate existing structures into its
post-Qaddafi rule, Davutoglu said.  The Libya Contact Group includes diplomats from 29
countries including the U.S., the U.K., European nations such as
France,  Canada , some Persian Gulf Arab states and
representatives from the UN, the  Arab League , the African Union
and the Organization of the Islamic Conference. The group held
its first meeting in April in Qatar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Istanbul at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  