-- 
UN Ready to Rush to Libya for Political, Economic Rebuilding

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-08-25T18:40:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/un-ready-to-rush-to-libya-for-political-rebuilding-though-no-blue-helmets.html
The  United Nations  is ready to send
dozens of specialists on political and economic reconstruction
to  Libya  as soon as rebel leaders request help and the Security
Council authorizes the mission, a senior official said.  “We will have people on the ground immediately,” UN
Under-Secretary-General Lynn Pascoe said in an interview today.
“I expect this to move very fast. The  Security Council  seems
very forward leaning, including some of the doubters” of the
UN-authorized NATO bombing campaign.  The question of UN assistance to the rebels’ National
Transitional Council will be the focus of a meeting tomorrow in
 New York  of leaders of the UN, European Union,  Arab League ,
 African Union  and Organization of Islamic Cooperation. Pascoe
said he hoped it would lead to adoption of a  Security Council 
resolution authorizing the UN mission by the end of next week.  Pascoe said the UN doesn’t anticipate sending peacekeeping
troops to Libya, and U.S. State Department spokeswoman Victoria
Nuland told reporters today in Washington the NTC is
“unlikely” to request them. She said the NTC discussed
security needs at a meeting today in Istanbul of the Contact
Group on Libya, an ad hoc coalition of Western and regional
powers.  “Precisely what it may ask for is still to be
determined,” Nuland said. “I think we will look favorably” if
the NTC makes a policing support request, she said.  Deploying Specialists  Drawing on agencies such as the UN Children’s Fund and UN
Development Program, specialists on disbursing emergency aid,
organizing elections, drafting a constitution, and rebuilding
the economy and infrastructure will be deployed, Pascoe said.  “The last thing they want is a bunch of soldiers,” Pascoe
said. “We want to keep it small. This is why people like the
leadership of the NTC, because they want us there at the very
first. Any process will be Libyan led. We are trying to help
them, not coming in with our own ideas.”  As an example, Pascoe said he is confident that NTC
Chairman Mustafa Abdel Jalil’s call for elections within eight
months is realistic. Elections could be held within six months
and the UN has been preparing for months to help organize
elections for a constituent assembly that would then draft a new
constitution, Pascoe said.  “This is not a situation like you had in  Iraq ,” Pascoe
said. “The NTC, made up of former government officials, has
been quite inclusive. It is not like the issue of whether the
Shiites or Sunnis are going to rule.”  Pascoe said the lesson from Iraq is that “de-
Baathification was a terrible idea, leading to a leadership of a
movement of guys kicked out of high-ranking positions,” he
said, referring to the removal from government jobs of members
of  Saddam Hussein ’s Baath Party after the 2003 U.S.-led
invasion.  To contact the reporters on this story: Bill Varner at the
 United Nations  at   wvarner@bloomberg.net 
Flavia Krause-Jackson at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in  Washington  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  