-- 
UN Authorizes U.S. Release of $1.5 Billion Frozen Assets to Libya’s Rebels

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-08-25T22:13:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/unfreezing-libyan-assets-hits-snag-at-un-as-qaddafi-still-loose.html
The  United Nations  released $1.5
billion of seized Libyan assets held in U.S. banks, a fraction
of the North African’s nation’s $30 billion residing with the
world’s biggest economy.  The action followed approval by  South Africa , a UN Security
Council member that held up the release out of concern that the
decision would signify recognition of the rebels’ National
Transitional Council as the government of  Libya . The Security
Council sanctions committee for Libya couldn’t authorize the
release without the consent of all 15 members of the panel.  Mahmoud Jibril, prime minister of the NTC, complained in
Rome today about not being able to pay salaries or provide basic
needs. The $1.5 billion will be used to help the rebels deliver
aid and basic services to the residents in the war-torn nation.
About $165 billion in Libyan government assets were frozen
worldwide to prevent Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  from
funding his military operations in the six-month conflict.  Under pressure to provide funds for the cash-starved
rebels, the Europeans and the U.S. are seeking different ways
around the legal barriers put in place with the March 17
adoption of a UN sanctions resolution.  Germany , which holds about 7.3 billion euros ($10.5
billion) of Libyan assets, chose to give a loan of $140 million
to the NTC as an advance.  Former Colonial Power  Italy , which as a former colonial power in Libya is the
African country’s biggest trading partner, holds more than 10
billion euros in assets. Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi today
pledged to unfreeze 350 million euros held with Italian banks.
Last month, Italy said it would open a  credit line  to Libyan
rebels using frozen regime assets as collateral.  Under the U.S. proposal, the $1.5 billion will be disbursed
in three $500 million appropriations, for emergency aid, fuel to
provide electricity and operate desalinization plants and for
the health and education needs of the Libyan people.  Most of the U.S.-frozen $30 billion is tied up in property
interests, including holdings in non-publicly traded companies
or real estate.  “Part of the difficulty here is that some of this money,
when you try to trace it back, you’re not exactly sure the chain
of custody,” State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland told
reporters yesterday in  Washington . “Some of it goes to the
question of the value of real estate,” which fluctuates, she
said.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  called for an
international conference to be held in Paris on Sept. 1 to find
a faster way to release frozen Libya funds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Varner in United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  