-- 
Irene Threatens East Coast With $13.9B in Damage

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-25T18:27:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/hurricane-irene-threatens-u-s-east-coast-with-up-to-13-9-billion-damage.html
Hurricane Irene is forecast to turn
north into the U.S. on a path similar to 1985’s Hurricane
Gloria, threatening as much as $13.9 billion in insured losses
and possibly forcing the evacuation of parts of  New York City ,
officials and forecasters said.  Mayor Michael Bloomberg said a decision on evacuations
would be made tomorrow for residents in areas including Coney
Island, Battery Park City and parts of Staten Island.  Irene, a Category 3 major hurricane, is expected to grow
larger as it moves toward North Carolina’s Outer Banks this
weekend before crashing into the Northeast as early as Aug. 28,
according to the National Hurricane Center  track projection . The
storm is 105 miles (169 kilometers) east-northeast of Nassau,
the Bahamas.  “This track is eerily similar to Gloria,” said  Chris
Hyde , a meteorologist with  MDA EarthSat Weather  in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland . “Millions are potentially going to be losing power
from  North Carolina  all the way up to New England.”  Irene may cause $13.9 billion in insured losses and $20
billion in overall economic losses due to lost hours at work,
power outages, interruption of shipping and airline traffic,
according to estimates by Kinetic Analysis Corp.  Gloria killed 11 people, the hurricane center said. It
caused $900 million in damage, said  Weather Underground Inc.   Population Threat  More than 65 million people, or about one in five
Americans, from North Carolina to  Maine , are in the way of the
hurricane, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Mayor Bloomberg said at a press conference the city is
expecting “winds of 60 mph or more” and the storm may be
“possibly as strong as a Category 2 on  Long Island .” The mayor
is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg
LP.  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  declared an emergency
there and urged people to leave the shore by midday tomorrow.
North Carolina Governor Bev Perdue declared a state of emergency
for counties east of Interstate 95.  A Category 2 storm has winds of at least 96 mph, and poorly
constructed homes are at risk for losing their roofs, high-rise
windows can be broken and many shallow-rooted trees will be
snapped off or pulled from the ground, according to the  National
Hurricane Center .  “No matter which way you slice it, there’s probably going
to be hurricane-force winds in  New York ,” said Eric Wilhelm, a
senior meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,
 Pennsylvania .  Forecast Track  Small fluctuations in the track, which currently passes
directly over Queens, could mean much greater damage to the city
from storm surge, Wilhelm said.  Irene is expected to strengthen later today, the hurricane
center said, and could become a Category 4 storm on the five-
step Saffir-Simpson hurricane wind scale, bearing winds of at
least 131 mph.  “The hurricane will affect millions and cost billions,”
Wilhelm said. “This will be remembered as a Northeast hurricane
and not a North Carolina hurricane.”  A hurricane watch is in force from Surf City, North
Carolina, to the  Virginia  line, according to the center. A
tropical storm watch is in effect from Edisto Beach,  South
Carolina , to Surf City. A watch means storm conditions are
likely to begin in two days.  Governor’s Warning  North Carolina’s Perdue told reporters today she was
“dismayed that many of the ferries were still empty” at
Ocracoke Island, which is evacuating tourists. “We are asking
people all over eastern North Carolina to take this storm very
seriously,” she said.  The U.S. Navy moved 64 ships away from Norfolk, Virginia,
to keep them from being damaged by the storm, the  Associated
Press  reported.  The dedication of the Martin Luther King Jr. memorial on
the National Mall in  Washington  on Aug. 28, at which President
 Barack Obama  is scheduled to speak, is still on schedule.  Residents along the coast north of the Carolinas will
“experience a raging hurricane,” said Jim Dale, a risk
meteorologist with High Wycombe, England-based British Weather
Services. “They will see 70-100 miles-per-hour winds and also
copious amounts of rain. Flooding and storm damage from wind is
inevitable.”  Bahamas Impact  Irene is ripping through the Bahamas with winds of 115
miles per hour, damaging homes, felling trees and triggering
flooding, according to the Bahamas Emergency Management Agency.  The U.S. center warned the Bahamas would experience storm
surges of as much as 11 feet above sea level and that up to 12
inches of rain may fall. Irene’s hurricane-strength winds of at
least 74 mph extend 70 miles from its core, and tropical-storm-
strength winds reach out 290 miles.  The last hurricane to strike the U.S. was  Ike  in 2008, a
Category 2 storm when it went ashore near Galveston,  Texas . The
most recent major hurricane, one with winds of at least 111 mph,
was Wilma in 2005.  Farther east in the Atlantic, Tropical Depression 10
probably will be upgraded to a tropical storm today, the center
said. The next tropical storm will be named Jose.  The system is about 505 miles west of the southernmost Cape
Verde Islands and moving west-northwest across open waters at 12
mph, the Miami-based center said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at   bbanker@bloomberg.net  