-- 
Irene May Boost Retailers as Lowe’s Sells $799 Generators

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-08-25T20:01:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/hurricane-irene-may-boost-retailers-as-lowe-s-sells-799-power-generators.html
With Hurricane Irene barreling
toward Morehead City,  North Carolina , Tim Guthrie thought of
protecting all of his possessions -- even his frozen food.  “We want to make sure we can keep the freezer going,”
Guthrie said, while loading a $799 gasoline-powered Briggs &
Stratton generator into his pickup truck at a Lowe’s Cos. store
down the road from his home.  The 50-year-old joined Americans stocking up on
flashlights, plywood and food to brace for the Category 3
hurricane that may make landfall in North Carolina on Aug. 27.
Irene is forecast to then head north to New York and New England
and may cause as much as $20 billion in overall economic losses,
according to estimates by Kinetic Analysis Corp.  “Millions are potentially going to be losing power from
North Carolina all the way up to  New England ,” said  Chris Hyde ,
a meteorologist with  MDA EarthSat Weather  in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland .  The anticipation for Irene may boost sales for retailers
such as Lowe’s,  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , Costco Wholesale Corp.,  Target
Corp. (TGT)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  as shoppers flock to stores to
prepare for wind and rain damage and possible limited access to
food or water.  “If the hurricane doesn’t do damage to the stores where
they have to close for an elongated period of time, you’ll see a
benefit to sales,” said Poonam Goyal, a retail analyst for
Bloomberg Industries. “People are going to stock up on
necessities.”  Manhattan Flashlights  That was the case at a Home Depot in midtown  Manhattan  as
shoppers picked through a shrinking supply of  Maglite 
flashlights. Store employees had erected a folding table bearing
yellow rain suits for $14.96 and glow sticks at $4.99. Shopping
carts filled with batteries and even more flashlights added to
the makeshift display.  “My mom called this morning and asked if I had a
flashlight and water,” said Lacey Blue, a 30-year-old from
Astoria, Queens, with a Maglite in hand. “This probably isn’t
going to happen, but I should have a flashlight anyway, so it’s
no big deal.”  At an Ace Hardware Corp. store in Atlantic Beach, North
Carolina, crowds were “growing by the hour,” according to
Jerry Webster, a clerk at the store. Customers began lining up
at 7 a.m. yesterday to pick up essentials like duct tape and
sandbags. Today, there was a “feeling of excitement in the
air,” he said.  ‘Panicking’  Home Depot has been sending what it described as “pre-
strike” items such as water, tarps and batteries to meet
surging demand along Irene’s expected path, said Russ
Householder, emergency response captain for Home Depot.  The retailer is now adding extra goods to stores in New
York and  Rhode Island  with emergency supplies to prepare for the
weekend.  “A lot of our consumers are panicking,” Householder said.  Lowe’s has done likewise, sending out more than 200
truckloads of chainsaws and bottled water to fulfill shoppers’
needs, said Karen Cobb, a spokeswoman for the Mooresville, North
Carolina-based retailer. The company has been monitoring
inventory levels and using past hurricanes to estimate demand.
Lowe’s and Atlanta-based Home Depot declined to estimate how
much storm preparation could boost sales.  Back at the Lowe’s in Morehead City, 11 power generators
were on display at the front of the store. At the other end of
the store, workers loaded plywood for $12.97 apiece into a line
of trucks, vans and cars.  “I’m buying five sheets, for now,” said Sheli Nix, 31, to
cover windows of her home on Bogue Sound. Her mother, daughter
and other relatives arrive today. “We’re going to have a house
full and are taking precautions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  