-- 
Veolia May Write Down More Assets, Credit Suisse Analysts Say

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-08-25T14:26:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/veolia-may-write-down-more-assets-credit-suisse-analysts-say.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , the world’s
biggest water company, may write down more assets and should
improve corporate governance, according to a report by Credit
Suisse Group AG.  Investors are concerned that corporate governance “may be
a reason why some of the past investments have been less
successful than assumed,” analysts including Vincent Gilles
said today. The utility would “certainly benefit” from adding
a supervisory board to better control future mergers and
acquisitions.  Veolia Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot
announced a plan Aug. 4 to stop operations in at least 37
countries and sell 1.3 billion euros ($1.9 billion) of assets
this year to restore profit. The company, which has lost almost
half its market value this year, also announced a first-half
loss on writedowns on operations in  Italy , Morocco and the U.S.
and that fraud had been uncovered at a U.S. business.  “One of the main reasons for the recent collapse of the
share is the uncertainty on the business model created by the
restructuring announcement,” said the analysts, who lowered
their rating on the shares to ‘neutral’ from ‘outperform.’ Until
he was appointed chairman at Veolia seven months ago, 53-year-
old Frerot “may not have been in a position to proceed with
necessary changes.”  The restructuring marks the end of the global expansion
started by Frerot’s predecessor  Henri Proglio , who became
Chairman and CEO of Electricite de France SA in 2009 while
remaining chairman of Veolia until last December.  Rights Offer  Veolia, which supplies water to more than 100 million
people worldwide, will exit the transport business in  Morocco ,
environmental services in  Egypt , marine services in the U.S. and
will proceed with “significant disengagements” in southern
 Europe  including a review of operations in Italy, where
management has already been replaced.  “In an environment of lower growth and higher  risk
aversion , more assets could be written down or impaired,”
Credit Suisse said.  Veolia is likely to cut its payout to shareholders while a
rights offer “can’t be ruled out,” Credit Suisse said. Frerot
said Aug. 4 the utility doesn’t need a capital increase and the
debt level is “sustainable.”  Shareholder and board member Groupe Industriel Marcel
Dassault has spent about 14.8 million euros since Aug. 5 buying
shares in Veolia, according to filings with the French stock
market regulator  Autorite des Marches Financiers .  The purchases are a “sign of confidence from the board,”
Jean Farah, an analyst at RBS Securities Inc. in  London , said by
e-mail. “Dassault now owning 6.1 percent of Veolia is backing
Frerot’s strategic reappraisal.”  Veolia said it had identified an “incidence of accounting
fraud” from 2007 to 2010 in the U.S. at its Marine Services
business that was “not significant” and had no impact on the
latest period.  “However small the figure may be in the context of a
company the size of Veolia, we would argue that the management
will need to reassure analysts and investors that it fully
controls all its subsidiaries,” Credit Suisse said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 