-- 
Buffett to Host Obama Fundraiser in New York

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-08-25T15:41:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/warren-buffett-to-host-obama-fundraiser-in-new-york-on-sept-30.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett  plans to
hold a Sept. 30 fundraiser in New York City to benefit President
Barack Obama’s re-election bid, according to two Democratic
officials not authorized to speak publicly about the event.  The fundraiser, reported earlier by the New York Post, will
also feature former Obama economic adviser Austan Goolsbee.  Obama, who is preparing for a post-Labor Day speech about
his plans for stimulating the economy, spoke with Buffett Aug.
22 by phone from his vacation on Martha’s Vineyard as he works
to gather ideas on how to boost  job creation  and spur growth.  The chairman and chief executive officer of  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  has been a longtime Obama supporter. He hosted an
August 2007  fundraiser  in Omaha,  Nebraska , for Obama and has
served as an informal economic adviser.  Obama has cited Buffett to counter critics of his policies,
particularly on raising taxes for the nation’s wealthiest
individuals and families. Buffett has called for higher taxes
for wealthy Americans including himself.  During his bus tour last week through rural areas of
Minnesota, Iowa and Illinois, Obama quoted from a New York Times
opinion article in which Buffett wrote that the nation’s richest
individuals have been “coddled long enough by a billionaire-
friendly Congress.” Buffett argued for raising taxes for the
“mega-rich” in the U.S.  Buffett has primarily supported Democratic candidates,
including giving the maximum allowed by law during the 2008
campaign to both Obama and the Democratic National Committee.  -- Editor:  Mark Silva , Ann Hughey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  