-- 
Weepu, Whitelock Get Stars as All Blacks Change 11 for Tri-Nations Decider

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-25T01:46:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/weepu-whitelock-get-stars-as-all-blacks-change-11-for-tri-nations-decider.html
New Zealand  made 11 changes for this
weekend’s Tri-Nations rugby decider against Australia, including
picking Piri Weepu at scrum-half and Sam Whitelock at lock.  The All Blacks recalled all but one of the senior players
who didn’t feature in the 18-5 loss in South Africa five days
ago. With the backline completely changed, forwards Whitelock,
Keven Mealamu, Tony Woodcock and Adam Thomson were the only
players retained from the starting team in Port Elizabeth.  Weepu’s only previous start this year was the 30-14 victory
over Australia in Auckland on Aug. 6. He’s one of the 10
starters from that game included for the championship decider at
Brisbane’s Suncorp Stadium in two days. The match is both teams’
final Test before the  World Cup  in New Zealand.  “This is a tournament-defining match for the team,” All
Blacks coach  Graham Henry  said in a statement. “We will have to
play at our very best. It’s going to be a massive Test match.”  The All Blacks are tied with the Wallabies on nine points
atop the Tri-Nations standings as they seek a record-extending
11th title in 16 editions. Australia won the last of its two
southern hemisphere rugby championships in 2001.  The title was also on the line when the teams last met in
Brisbane three years ago. The All Blacks won that match 28-24.  NEW ZEALAND: Mils Muliaina, Cory Jane, Conrad Smith, Ma’a
Nonu, Zac Guildford, Dan Carter,  Piri Weepu , Kieran Read, Richie
McCaw (captain), Adam Thomson, Sam Whitelock, Brad Thorn, Owen
Franks, Keven Mealamu, Tony Woodcock.  Replacements: Andrew Hore,  John Afoa , Ali Williams, Victor
Vito,  Andy Ellis , Colin Slade, Isaia Toeava.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  