-- 
Twenty Seconds Pit Glaxo Against Pfizer in India’s $12 Billion Drug Market

-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 
2011-08-25T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/twenty-seconds-pit-glaxo-against-pfizer-in-india-s-drug-market.html
Two dozen young men and women toting
backpacks and brochures mill around cardiologist P.L. Tiwari’s
office in Bombay Hospital, waiting as long as 90 minutes for an
opportunity to see him. They aren’t there for checkups.  They instead want to persuade the  Mumbai  doctor to
prescribe their brands of  prescription drugs . Tiwari, who sees
about 50 patients a day, said he is so inundated by sales
representatives he tries to limit their visits to Friday nights.  Pharmaceutical sales in  India  have increased an average of
14 percent annually since 2005, stoked by rising incomes and
surging rates of  heart disease , diabetes and cancer. India bans
prescription-drug advertising, so  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ,  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  and other companies are trying to tap the $12 billion
market through a sales force of 100,000 that is predicted to at
least triple by 2020.  “They often come pleading to me, asking me to prescribe
their company’s drugs,” said Tiwari, 66. “I only give them 20
seconds or a minute. You can’t stop your consultation to
entertain them.”  India’s 10 biggest pharmaceutical companies -- including
 Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) , Cipla Ltd., Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories
Ltd. and local units of Pfizer and Glaxo -- bolstered their
combined sales forces by more than 6,000 in the fiscal year
ended March 31, executives said on conference calls this month.  Brand Abundance  India has 92,000 brand names of registered pharmaceuticals,
according to a compendium of medicines sold in the country. The
 World Health Organization , in contrast, recommends 340  essential
drugs .  “The number of medicine brands sold in India is at least
30 times that in the U.S. and  Europe ,” said C.M. Gulhati,
editor of the Indian edition of the drug encyclopedia MIMS.  About 90 percent of prescriptions are generics, which their
manufacturers seek to differentiate with unique names -- making
them branded generics. Merck & Co.’s cholesterol-lowering Zocor
is sold by Ranbaxy as Simvatin, by Cipla as Simcard and by  Lupin
Ltd. (LPC)  as Starstat.  Prices of the brands can differ by as much as 75 percent
for 10 tablets, according to MIMS.  When prescribing medication, Indian doctors typically refer
to brands rather than chemical names. Pharmacists are prohibited
from substituting one generic for another, even if it’s cheaper,
so drugmakers try to persuade doctors to think of their brands
first.  One-Minute Meetings  There are at least 43 brands of blood-pressure pill
olmesartan, which is sold by Merck as  Olmighty  and by Glaxo as
Benitec. Pfizer sells a similar drug called Targit. All compete
in a market for heart drugs that the All India Organization of
Chemists and Druggists estimates is worth 66 billion rupees
($1.4 billion).  “It’s an extremely competitive industry, and I have to
visit some doctors once every week,” said Avinash Singh, who
markets medicines for  Bafna Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (BFNA) , one of India’s
5,000 drugmakers.  Singh’s job is to persuade Mumbai gynecologists to order
Raricap, one of about 200 versions of a calcium-and-iron
supplement.  “Each meeting will take one minute or so, but if we come
regularly then they will hopefully prescribe more,” said Singh,
who tries to meet at least 11 doctors a day.  ‘Crowded Out’  He also visits neighboring pharmacies to gauge his success.
Singh earns about 9,200 rupees a month plus quarterly bonuses
for meeting sales targets.  There will be at least three medical reps for every 10
doctors by 2020, triple the ratio from 2005,  McKinsey & Co.  said
in an October report.  “Sales representatives are getting crowded out of the
doctors’ chambers,” especially in India’s largest cities,
McKinsey said.  Competition and government-enforced price controls help
keep prices low and make India one of the cheapest countries for
pharmaceuticals. The price of 10 tablets of the antibiotic
ciprofloxacin, sold by  Bayer AG (BAYN)  as Cipro for more than 20 years,
fell 14 percent from 1996 to 2005, according to a  March report 
from the Global Antibiotic Resistance Partnership.  Labor costs, which equal 10 percent to 14 percent of sales
for at least five major drugmakers, have increased by at least
27 percent on average, according to Batlivala & Karani
Securities in Mumbai.  Better Raises  Sales personnel receive better raises than other workers
because of competition that prompts one in four recruits to
change companies within a year. Ranbaxy, India’s largest
drugmaker, agreed to boost pay for its medical reps by 20
percent to 40 percent this year, said K.B. Kadam, general
secretary of the Federation of Medical Representative
Associations of India, a union group.  Growth in salaries has outstripped productivity increases,
with sales representatives at Ranbaxy, Cipla, Dr. Reddy’s and
Lupin generating less revenue on average than they were two
years ago, Edelweiss Securities Ltd. said in a report last month.  “Peer pressure has forced some companies to add more
people than they are comfortable with,” said Nitin Agarwal, a
pharmaceutical analyst at IDFC Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “At
some stage, you’re going to get no more gain from adding people.
I think we should be close to that point now.”  ‘Getting Ruthless’  Ranbaxy added almost 1,500 sales representatives last year.
The company, based on the outskirts of  New Delhi , expected the
recruits to expand domestic sales by 15 percent to 20 percent
each quarter, former Managing Director Atul Sobti said in May
2010. Instead, domestic sales growth slowed to less than 6
percent in the past two quarters.  The pharmaceutical industry’s influence in driving sales is
facing resistance from the Medical Council of India in New Delhi.  The council -- the top government body responsible for
setting ethical standards, granting doctors’ licenses and
accrediting the nation’s 315 medical colleges -- is restricting
corporate sponsorship of medical events, including paying for
doctors’ flights and accommodations.  “Even the pharmaceutical industry, the big players, they
also agree with us in principle,” Council Secretary Sangeeta Sharma said. “They’re also sick of this kind of practice. It is
getting ruthless.”  Doctor Training  The council is seeking a system requiring India’s 800,000
doctors to continue updating their knowledge and skills. For
some doctors, sales pitches from pharmaceutical companies are
their only source of new medical information.  Doctors in 23 of India’s 28 states aren’t required to
undertake post-graduate training to maintain their accreditation.
The council recommended in May that the health ministry require
doctors to attend lectures and conferences, and read medical
journals to continue practicing.  “Biased information from the industry is influencing
doctor’s decisions,” said Pankaj Chaturvedi, a cancer surgeon
at Mumbai’s Tata Memorial Hospital. “A medical representative
is a sales person just like someone selling mobile-phone
plans.”  In the office of Mumbai heart doctor Tiwari, medical reps
flick through flipcharts and brochures while making their
pitches for medicines including Pfizer’s anti-smoking drug
Champix and  Ipca Laboratories Ltd. (IPCA) ’s Larinate, an injectable
anti-malarial treatment.  Tiwari hears all 30 within eight minutes.  “They’re waiting for hours and hours, and just to satisfy
them, we listen,” Tiwari said. “What benefit is a doctor going
to get from their short speech?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale in Singapore at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  