-- 
Western Australia Crop Regions May Receive Above-Average Rains

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-08-25T04:57:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/western-australia-crop-regions-may-receive-above-average-rains.html
Grain-growing regions in Western
 Australia , potentially the nation’s biggest wheat producer in
the 2011-2012 season, may receive above-average rainfall in the
next three months, shoring up crops before the harvest.  The state’s southwest, including the main grain-growing
region known as the Wheatbelt, has a 60 percent to 75 percent
chance of  above-median rainfall  from September to November, the
Bureau of Meteorology said today. Drier conditions are favored
through parts of southern Australia, it said on its website.  Recent rain in Western Australia, typically the biggest
wheat producer, has increased optimism the state may bolster
Australia’s overall wheat harvest and support export volumes
after dry weather in the east raised concern about lower yields.
Growers in the west rely on rains through September ahead of the
harvest, which begins in about late October.  “That certainly increases the chances that  Western
Australia  is going to come through with a very good crop,” said
Paul Deane, an economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. in Melbourne, who forecasts Western Australia wheat
output of 9.2 million metric tons. “If we get above-average
rainfall through September, that will set all those crops up.”  Wheat for December delivery fell as much as 2 percent to
$7.62 per bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, and was at
$7.6475 at 1:53 p.m. in Melbourne. The price has declined 3.6
percent this year after Russia ended an export ban.  Wheat production in the state may surge 76 percent to 8.05
million tons this season, the Grain Industry Association of
Western Australia said earlier this week, citing favorable
weather. Drought last year cut the grain crop by about half.  ‘Won or Lost’  “September’s where, basically, the crop’s won or lost,”
said ANZ’s Deane. “In some of those areas where the crops are
struggling, if we don’t get rain by mid-September, then some of
those crops would be looking pretty ordinary.”  Wheat production in Australia, the third-biggest shipper,
may be 12 percent less than earlier forecast on dry conditions
in some growing regions, National Australia Bank Ltd. said last
week. The bank cut its 20111-2012 output forecast to 21.8
million tons from April’s call of 24.75 million tons.  Analysts at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. and
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia  also reduced their production
forecasts for the Australian crop this month by 3.8 percent and
3.3 percent, respectively.  Much of New South Wales and Victoria states have a 40
percent to 55 percent chance of receiving above-normal rainfall,
according to the  bureau . Over central and southeastern  South
Australia  and a small region on the border with Victoria and New
South Wales, the chance of receiving above-normal rainfall is
between 35 percent and 40 percent, it said.  Australia may produce a near-record 26.2 million ton wheat
crop in 2011-2012, the Australian  Bureau  of Agricultural and
Resource Economics and Sciences forecast in June. The nation
produced 26.3 million tons in 2010-2011.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in  Melbourne  at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  