-- 
Western Digital Appeals Seagate Priority in EU Merger Probe

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-08-25T18:36:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/western-digital-appeals-seagate-priority-in-eu-merger-probe-1-.html
Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  asked the
European Union’s general court to overturn a regulator’s
decision to give priority to a review of an acquisition by hard-
disk storage industry rival  Seagate Technology Plc. (STX)   Western Digital, based in Irvine, California, got an
antitrust complaint from the European Commission last week
listing potential competition problems with its planned purchase
of  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) ’s storage unit. Being sent such a document
doesn’t mean that the deal will be blocked.  Seagate said it didn’t expect to receive a similar
complaint over its acquisition of Samsung Electronics Co.’s
computer hard-disk drive operations. The  Scotts Valley ,
California-based company notified its transaction to EU
regulators for clearance a day before Western Digital.  The two deals would reduce the number of large
manufacturers of mechanical hard-disk drives for computers to
three from five, leaving Western Digital with 50 percent of the
market, Seagate with 40 percent and  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  with around 10
percent, according to researcher  IHS Inc. (IHS) ’s iSuppli.  The commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm, opened
in-depth probes in May, saying it would treat the Western
Digital deal as taking place after the Seagate transaction. Each
new deal shrinks the number of competitors in the market.  Western Digital said in a statement that the case was a
procedural challenge.  Sequencing Issue  “We strongly believe that our transaction is pro-
competitive and should be cleared and we hope that the
commission’s position on sequencing will have no impact on its
final assessment of our transaction,” the company said in an e-
mailed statement.  “We have taken the necessary steps before
the General Court to protect our legal position, in
case the sequencing issue were to play a decisive role in the
decision-making process.”  The European Commission declined to comment.  Western
Digital  filed the case on Aug. 8, according to an e-mail from
the Luxembourg-based court’s press service.  The case is T-452/11, Western Digital and Western Digital
Ireland v. European Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  