-- 
Wheat Rises as Dry Weather Threatens U.S. Winter Sowing; Corn, Soy Steady

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-08-25T20:28:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/wheat-rises-as-dry-weather-threatens-winter-planting-in-u-s-great-plains.html
Wheat futures rose to a 10-week high
on speculation that dry weather in the U.S. Great Plains will
limit planting of the winter crop during the next two months.
Corn and soybeans were little changed.  The southern Plains may have “only a few scattered
thundershowers” through Aug. 30, with most of the rain coming
in northern areas, according to a Telvent DTN forecast. Much of
southern  Kansas ,  Oklahoma  and  Texas , the three biggest winter-
wheat growers last year, are experiencing “exceptional”
drought, the most severe rating on the U.S. Drought Monitor
maintained by the University of  Nebraska  in Lincoln.  “Wheat is underpinned by the hard, red winter-wheat-
planting concerns,” Mike Zuzolo, the president of Global
Commodity Analytics & Consulting, said by telephone from
Lafayette,  Indiana . “The weather is looking very, very dry, and
farmers are under crunch time for getting moisture replenished
before planting fields in mid-September.”  Wheat futures for December delivery rose 10.5 cents, or 1.4
percent, to settle at $7.8775 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Earlier, the price touched $7.93, the
highest since June 13. Futures are up 16 percent in the past
year.  Winter wheat, the most common variety grown in the U.S., is
planted in September and October, goes dormant until March and
is harvested starting in May. The grain is used to make bread.  Corn, Soybeans  Corn futures for December delivery rose 0.5 cent to $7.435
a bushel on the CBOT. Yesterday, the price reached $7.4875, the
highest for a most-active contract since June 9. The commodity
is up 11 percent this month on concerns that dry weather in the
U.S. Midwest would hurt yields.  Soybean futures for November delivery dropped 0.75 cent to
$13.9275 a bushel. Yesterday, the oilseed rose to $14.0325, the
highest since July 19. Futures are up 39 percent in the past
year.  Corn and soybeans swung between gains and losses on signs
that demand for U.S. exports is slowing as prices climb, while
production may slide because of hot, dry weather in the Midwest.  U.S. exporters sold 152,287 metric tons of corn in the week
ended Aug. 18 for delivery in the marketing year that starts
Sept. 1, the Department of Agriculture said today. That’s 46
percent less than a week earlier. The U.S. Census Bureau said
today that soybean inventories rose in July from a year earlier,
indicating a slowdown in demand.  Pro Farmer Tour  Participants on the Pro Farmer Midwest Crop Tour, traveling
across seven states this week, have reported corn and soybean
yields lower than last year in Indiana, Nebraska,  South Dakota ,
 Illinois  and western  Iowa . Preliminary reports today in
 Minnesota  and central Iowa showed larger corn yields and smaller
soybean pod counts than last year.  Crop-tour findings are “pretty well dialed into the
market,” as yields have come in near analyst expectations, said
 Don Roose , the president of U.S. Commodities Inc. in  West Des
Moines , Iowa. “The slowdown in export demand” kept markets
under pressure, he said in a telephone interview.  Corn is the largest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, government data
show. Wheat ranks fourth at $13 billion, behind hay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 