-- 
Wisconsin Judges in Alleged Fracas Won’t Be Charged, DA Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-25T22:07:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/wisconsin-judges-in-alleged-assault-won-t-face-charges-prosecutor-says.html
Two  Wisconsin  state Supreme Court
justices who allegedly had a violent encounter over collective-
bargaining legislation won’t face charges, said a state district
attorney appointed as special prosecutor to review the incident.  “I have determined that no criminal charges will be
filed” against David Prosser or Ann Walsh Bradley for the
incident on June 13, Sauk County District Attorney Patricia Barrett said today in a statement.  The alleged altercation between the judges took place while
the top state court was grappling with what became a decision
the next day reinstating legislation limiting public employees’
ability to engage in collective bargaining.  Dane County Chief Judge C. William Foust earlier this month
selected Barrett from neighboring Sauk County to review the
incident at the request of Dane District Attorney Ismael Ozanne,
who said he wanted to avoid allegations that any action he took
was politically motivated.  The  Supreme Court  is in the state capital, Madison, which
is also the Dane county seat. Ozanne’s office in March filed the
lawsuit challenging Governor  Scott Walker ’s collective-
bargaining legislation, which led to the June Supreme Court
ruling.  According to the Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel, Bradley
 accused  Prosser of putting her in a chokehold, a claim that
Prosser denied.  Civility, Personal Control  The court’s chief justice, Shirley S. Abrahamson, called
for Barrett’s decision to be “respected,” and said each of her
colleagues owed the others, and the people of Wisconsin,
“civility and personal control” of their language, demeanor
and temperament.  She also said she would propose to her six colleagues that
they presume the court’s conferences are open to the public. The
panel resumes hearing oral arguments on Sept. 6.  “The Wisconsin Supreme Court has a long history and a
reputation for excellence, a reputation that all justices must
uphold,” Abrahamson said. “As Chief Justice, I remain
committed -- as ever -- that the court be maintained as a place
where disputes are resolved, not created.”  Prosser didn’t respond to a phone message seeking comment.  “My focus from the outset has not been one of criminal
prosecution, but rather addressing  workplace safety ,” Bradley
said in an e-mailed statement. “I also know that criminal
charges alone would not have addressed our safety in the
workplace and the special prosecutor’s decision not to file
charges does not resolve the safety issue, either.”  With the possibility of prosecution eliminated, Bradley
said she would “renew” her efforts to seek the cooperation of
her colleagues in achieving “the safe workplace that all
employees -- private and public -- are entitled to under the
law.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 