-- 
World Economy Faces 50% Chance of Renewed Slump, Nobel Winner Spence Says

-- B y   R o b y n   M e r e d i t h
-- 
2011-08-25T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/world-economy-has-50-chance-of-falling-into-slump-spence-says.html
The global economy has a 50 percent
chance of slipping into recession as  Europe  and the U.S.
struggle to grow, according to Nobel laureate  Michael Spence .  “I’m quite worried,” Spence said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in  Hong Kong  yesterday. “A combined
downward dip in Europe and America, which is a good chunk of the
industrialized economies, I’m quite sure will take down growth
in  China  particularly, and that will then immediately spread to
the rest of the emerging economies.” He put the likelihood of
such a scenario “at about 50 percent.”  Spence’s remarks follow cuts in global growth forecasts by
institutions from Citigroup Inc. to UBS AG as central bankers
from around the world gather for a Federal Reserve symposium
this weekend in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . Unlike the aftermath of
the 2008 global financial crisis when China cushioned the blow
with a stimulus program, this time it would only be able to
buffer its domestic economy, he said.  China “cannot make up for the kind of loss of demand that
would go with a downturn in the advanced economies,” Spence
said. Because Chinese inflation is running at an official rate
of 6.5 percent, a figure many economists say is understated,
Beijing would be “pretty close to nuts” to fuel further credit
growth, he said.  Spence, a professor at New York University’s Stern School
of Business who won the  Nobel Prize  in economics in 2001, said
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who will speak at Jackson Hole
today, has limited room to maneuver.  ‘Awkward Spot’  “The Fed is in a very awkward spot, where they have
limited additional capacity to do much more than prevent a frail
economy and a frail financial system from failing,” he said.
“But the expectations of them are so high, and it’s really the
government and the fiscal situation and other things which they
don’t control that are kind of the main agenda items.”  Spence said that the Fed could seek to encourage lending in
order to help bolster the real-estate market.  “They could focus more attention -- in their capacity as
overseer of parts of the banking system -- on the housing
sector, whose weakness is a big sea anchor that’s holding the
economy back.”  Encouraging banks to lend more freely to home buyers or to
provide relief to those whose homes are in foreclosure would
help unlock  consumer spending , he said.  “I just think we’ve been dithering on that front and it’s
an important enough component of the problem that maybe the Fed
could take a leadership role in focusing attention on it,” the
Nobel laureate said.  The Fung Global Institute yesterday named Spence chairman
of its academic board, which oversees the research agenda of the
Hong Kong-based independent research institute. He is also a
former dean of the Stanford Graduate School of Business in
 California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robyn Meredith in Hong Kong at 
 rmeredith8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  