-- 
Yankees Hit Record Three Grand Slams, Stay Game Behind Red Sox in AL East

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-08-26T05:07:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/yankees-become-first-team-to-hit-three-grand-slams-in-a-major-league-game.html
The  New York Yankees  hit a Major
League Baseball-record three grand slams in a 22-9 defeat of the
Oakland Athletics.  The Yankees remained one game behind the  Boston   Red Sox ,
who hit four home runs in defeating the Texas Rangers 6-0 last
night to stay atop the American League East.  At Yankee Stadium, the Athletics led 7-1 before New York
scored 15 unanswered runs. Robinson Cano hit the first four-run
homer in the fifth inning and Russell Martin followed with
another bases-loaded home run in the next inning. Curtis Granderson hit the third grand slam in the eighth as the Yankees
recorded their biggest comeback win in five years.  “It’s pretty amazing,” Martin told reporters. “This game
has been played for a long time, pretty much everything has
already happened. I’m waiting to see who’s going to hit four. I
don’t know if it’s ever going to happen.”  It was the fourth time in franchise history, and the first
since 1999, that the Yankees hit multiple grand slams in a game
and the first time they did it at home. The Yankees have hit
five slams this month to lead the major leagues with eight this
season, two more than the Florida Marlins.  New York  tied the franchise record for runs scored in a
home game, while 22 was the most the team recorded since a 22-1
win against the Red Sox on June 19, 2000.  Yankees Rally  The Yankees last recovered from a six-run deficit in a
14-13 win against the Rangers on May 16, 2006.  Cano stepped to the plate in the fifth with New York
trailing 7-2 and with  Derek Jeter , Granderson and  Alex Rodriguez 
on base. Cano trimmed the deficit to one run when he sent a
pitch from Oakland starter Rich Harden to right field for his
22nd home run of the year.  An inning later, Martin, who had a solo homer in the
fourth, swatted a Fautino De Los Santos pitch to right field.
His 17th homer of the year scored Granderson,  Nick Swisher  and
Rodriguez and made it 10-7 for the Yankees.  Granderson made the score 21-8 in the eighth with a slam
off Bruce Billings that brought Martin,  Eduardo Nunez  and Brett Gardner home.  “I know our offense is potent, but that even surprises
me,” Yankees manager Joe Girardi told reporters. “It’s a
pretty crazy accomplishment when you think about it, three grand
slams in one game.”  It was Granderson’s 36th homer of the campaign, one fewer
than  Jose Bautista  of the  Toronto Blue Jays , who leads the major
leagues.  Cano’s Sixth Slam  Cano now has six career grand slams, while Granderson and
Martin, who set career highs with five hits and six runs batted
in, have three each.  Andruw Jones  added another solo home run in the ninth for
New York’s final score of the game.  The 14 runs the Yankees scored on home runs is four shy of
the record 18 scored by the Rangers on homers in their 30-3
defeat of the Baltimore Orioles on Aug. 22, 2007.  The Yankees avoided a three-game sweep with the win, which
lifted them to  78-50  and dropped the Athletics to 59-71. Weather
delayed the start of the game for an hour and 29 minutes.  Jeter took sole possession of 21st place on baseball’s
career list with his 3,058th hit and will tie Mickey Mantle for
the most games played in Yankees history with his next
appearance.  The Yankees are scheduled to begin a five-game visit to the
Orioles today.  At Rangers Ballpark in Arlington,  Texas ,  Adrian Gonzalez 
hit two home runs and  David Ortiz  and Jarrod Saltalamacchia
added one each as the Red Sox (80-50) scored all six of their
runs in the first four innings.  With Hurricane Irene approaching the East Coast, the Red
Sox canceled a game scheduled for Aug. 28 at Fenway Park in
Boston against the Athletics and will instead play a
doubleheader tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  