-- 
Zynga’s ‘Unprecedented’ Tiered Stock Structure Boosts CEO’s Voting Power

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-08-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-25/zynga-s-unprecedented-stock-structure-boosts-chief-s-power-before-ipo.html
Zynga Inc. is revamping its stock
structure to grant the shares owned by Chief Executive Officer
Mark Pincus 70 times more voting power than shares sold in its
planned initial public offering.  The board approved three tiers of stock, giving each one of
Pincus’s shares 70 votes, up from 10, according to a document
obtained by Bloomberg. Pre-IPO investors and other current
holders will get seven votes a share, up from one. Public
investors will get one vote for each share.  Pincus would get more power than counterparts at other
public technology companies. The structure confers more voting
ability on the CEO than LinkedIn Corp. and Zillow Inc., which
offered certain shareholders 10 times more votes than public
investors in IPOs this year. Public holders of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 
which sold shares in 2004, got one-tenth the voting heft of 
stock held by co-founders  Larry Page  and  Sergey Brin .  “Zynga has invented something new,” said  Lise Buyer , a
principal at IPO advisory firm Class V Group in Portola Valley,
California, who was an adviser for Google’s public offering.
Having three tiers of stock is “unprecedented” for technology
companies, she said.  The move may be aimed at keeping too much voting power from
a large number of shareholding staffers, she said.  “Maybe there are so many early employees that even 10-to-1
would put the ultimate decision power in the hands of too large
a group of employees or investors,” she said.  Shareholder Influence Dilution  Multiple stock classes can dilute the influence of public
investors, said Greg Taxin, the former CEO of proxy advisory
service  Glass Lewis .  “In other industries, we see the collapse of these
structures,” said Taxin, now a principal at Spotlight Capital
Management in  New York . “It’s only because the founders of
these new Internet companies believe they can do no wrong and
everybody else is desperate to invest alongside them that they
can get away with this.”  Dani Dudeck, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Zynga,
declined to comment.  Zynga asked current shareholders to agree to the new stock
structure by Sept. 2, according to a legal contract distributed
by Deputy General Counsel Karyn Smith last week. If approved,
the new structure would take effect “in connection with the
proposed IPO,” Smith said in documents obtained by Bloomberg.  Pincus, who founded Zynga in 2007 and has navigated the
startup’s growth into the biggest maker of games played on
social-networking websites, is the largest shareholder. He has a
16 percent stake after selling stock valued at $109.5 million,
according to U.S. regulatory  filings .  IPO Market  Before this month, 2011 was on course to be the biggest
year for IPOs since 2007. Then  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S.
credit rating on Aug. 5, leading to a surge in market
volatility. The Nasdaq Composite Index moved more than 4 percent
on four consecutive days, and companies such as WageWorks Inc.
and InvenSense Inc. postponed their IPOs.  Zynga said in July it would seek to raise $1 billion in an
IPO. The company reported net income of $90.6 million last year,
its first profit. Even in the current market, the company can
still have an IPO with a tiered stock plan, said Nitsan Hargil,
research director at GreenCrest Capital Management LLC in New
York.  “Zynga is holding the trump card here in that they do not
need the IPO,” Hargil said. “This is the kind of company that
the market needs more than it needs the market.”  Other companies with tiered stock have encountered
resistance from investors. Last year, shareholders of Magna
International Inc. voted to eliminate the dual class structure
at the Canadian auto-parts maker and the power it bestowed
founder  Frank Stronach .  Berkshire, Hyatt  Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the New York Times Co. and Hyatt
Hotels Corp. are among the businesses outside the technology
industry with dual-class stock.  Social network Facebook Inc. implemented a two-tiered stock
structure in 2009 to protect the voting rights of early
stakeholders including founder and CEO  Mark Zuckerberg . The
company expects to be required by U.S. regulators to disclose
financial results by April 30 if it doesn’t go public by then.  Daily-deal website Groupon Inc., which in June filed to
raise $750 million in an IPO, has bi-level shares giving greater
voting power to co-founders  Andrew Mason , Eric Lefkofsky, and
Bradley Keywell.  High demand for technology offerings such as Zynga may
provide more leeway than in other industries to create tiered
stock structures, said Ted Hollifield, a partner at law firm
Dorsey & Whitney LLP in  Palo Alto ,  California .  “A very special company is able to ask for special
terms,” Hollifeld said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 