-- ‘Show Me Your Compromise’ Should Be Voters’ Rallying Cry
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-31T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/-show-me-your-compromise-should-be-voters-rallying-cry.html
In most polls these days, Americans
cite the lack of jobs as the No. 1 problem. President  Barack Obama  and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  claim to know how to
fix it. But win or lose, neither is likely to see his ideas
fully put into practice.  Elections no longer determine which party’s economic vision
prevails, except in the rare occasion when one party controls
the White House and both chambers of Congress. Winners are
unable to push through legislation to enact their policies
because the losing party does everything possible to block it.
The culture of  Washington  has devolved from one in which the
loyal opposition prevents legislative or regulatory excess to
one in which the out-of-power party uses the filibuster and 24-
hour cable television to prevent the president from governing.  There is a way out. It would almost certainly lead to more
jobs. And it can be reduced to two words: Compromise now. Find a
way before November’s elections to prevent $600 billion of tax
increases and spending cuts totaling about  4 percent  of gross
domestic product from slamming the economy on Jan. 1. We realize
the poisoned atmosphere of an election season makes this seem
impossible. But if elections no longer settle our differences,
why wait?  Zero Expectations  Employers understand the new Washington dynamic better than
most. They have  zero expectations  that lawmakers will find
common ground before November, or that a lame-duck Congress and
possibly a defeated president would strike a grand bargain.
Romney, for example, has given no indication that he would turn
his back on Tea Party hard-liners to compromise with Democrats
over raising taxes. Yet numerous studies, panels and
commissions, including the one led by  Alan Simpson , the
Republican former senator, and Erskine Bowles, the White House
chief of staff under Democrat  Bill Clinton , have concluded that
higher taxes must be part of any debt-reduction package.  Nor has Obama shown great leadership on budget issues. He
favors higher taxes on the wealthy, which wouldn’t come close to
solving the fiscal problem. Worse, Obama snubbed his own
 Simpson-Bowles commission . Since the panel offered its blueprint
in December 2010, it has won numerous converts, yet the
president never grabbed the opportunity to push for its
enactment.  No wonder corporate executives have turned skittish.
Instead of creating jobs, they are hoarding cash, canceling
plans to buy equipment or build plants, and postponing new
products. The economic downturn that everyone predicts if the
fiscal hammer comes down is already happening. Companies take no
solace in the oft-mentioned path around January’s landmines --
extending the expiration dates of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts
passed under President  George W. Bush  and postponing $100
billion in automatic spending reductions. That “would be a very
bad outcome,” as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
senators in July.  For their part, the Republican-controlled House and the
Democratic-controlled Senate are adopting measures that enshrine
their views on the Bush tax cuts. The Senate would raise taxes
on wealthier Americans and the House would lower everyone’s
taxes. The votes are phony; neither chamber has any intention of
trying to find common ground with the other. On Tuesday, House
and Senate leaders took the tiniest of baby steps toward fiscal
sanity by agreeing to hold votes in September to fund the
government at current levels for six more months. This is less a
show of bravery and more an act of self-defense: It prevents a
government shutdown and layoff notices from hitting mailboxes
just before Election Day.  What can we do? While U.S. lawmakers are in their districts
throughout August, or while Obama and Romney scour the
battleground states for supporters, voters should demand that
the candidates show how they might compromise with the other
side to stop us from barreling over that cliff.  Familiar Plan  A sensible plan could take many forms, but here’s a start:
Increase federal spending on public works, jobs programs and
education over the next two years (tops on the Democratic wish
list) while making deep cuts over the next decade. Require
well-to-do Social Security and Medicare recipients to pay more
for their benefits. Lower the top income-tax rates on
individuals and corporations from 35 percent to 28 percent (a
Republican favorite) while closing hundreds of loopholes and
limiting tax breaks for mortgages and charitable contributions.
Treat  capital gains  and dividends as ordinary income. Raise the
gasoline tax by 15 cents. Altogether, this would lower the
national debt by about $4 trillion over 10 years.  If it sounds familiar, that’s because it closely resembles
the Simpson-Bowles plan. The document already contains so many
well thought out left-right compromises, it’s hard to improve.
In truth, the parties aren’t far apart, in dollars, on tax cuts.
In the legislation that passed the Senate on July 25, the two
sides differed by about $29 billion, or 1.2 percent of projected
receipts. That amount is hardly worth arguing over in light of
the $15.2 trillion  national debt .  The details matter less than voters’ demands that each
candidate produce a compromise plan that could muster 60 Senate
votes, enough to break a filibuster. We already know Obama,
Romney and Congress are capable of continuing Washington’s
gridlock. Wouldn’t it be inspiring if they showed voters how
they would end it?  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View.  Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  Thailand needs political
stability ;  Margaret Carlson  on Mitt Romney’s  stumbles over his
wealth ; Clive Crook on why  Germany  should let the ECB do
 “whatever it takes” ;  Amity Shlaes  on why the Fed should  stop
sailing against the wind ; Mikhail Chernov on the  benefits of
Libor rigging ; Richard Cohen on the drama of the  Olympic fencing
duels ; Handel Reynolds on the  politics of mammograms .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 