-- AB InBev Reports Unexpected Beer Volume Drop on U.S.
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-07-31T06:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/ab-inbev-reports-unexpected-beer-volume-drop-on-u-s-correct-.html
(Corrects reporting period in first paragraph)  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s
biggest brewer, reported second-quarter beer volume that
unexpectedly declined as sales fell in the U.S. and Europe.  The volume of beer sold slid 0.1 percent, excluding the
effects of acquisitions and disposals. Eight analysts had
anticipated growth, with a median estimate for a 1.3 percent
increase. Revenue on the same basis, without the effects of
currency fluctuations, rose 4.7 percent as it sold more
expensive beers like Bud Lite Platinum.  Sales to wholesalers in the U.S. slid 2.1 percent “due to
planned adjustments to our shipping patterns,” the company
said. The volume of beer sold in western Europe dropped 7.1
percent as consumers in the U.K. reined in spending on brands
including  Stella Artois . So-called normalized earnings before
interest, tax, amortization and depreciation slid 4 percent to
$3.59 billion, the maker of Budweiser beer  said today . The
median estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News was
$3.66 billion.  AB InBev is among brewers expanding their hold in fast-
growing emerging markets as consumption in the U.S. and Europe
stumbles. The maker of Stella Artois agreed to buy the remaining
50 percent of Mexico’s Grupo Modelo SAB last month for $20.2
billion and bought control of the Dominican Republic’s biggest
brewer in April for $1.24 billion.  AB InBev  shares  have increased 40 percent this year, ahead
of  SABMiller Plc (SAB) ’s 23 percent advance and also outperforming
rivals  Heineken NV (HEIA)  and  Carlsberg A/S. (CARLA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  