-- Access Bank Wins Fraud Case Against Ex-Intercontinental CEO
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-07-31T16:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/access-bank-wins-fraud-case-against-ex-intercontinental-ceo-1-.html
Access Bank Plc (ACCESS)  of  Nigeria  won a 653
million-pound ($1.02 billion) fraud lawsuit in Britain against
Erastus Akingbola, the former chief executive officer of bailed-
out Intercontinental Bank Plc, which it acquired last year.  Akingbola is liable for directing the bank to buy its own
shares at a loss of about 145 billion naira ($902 million),
siphoning money to companies controlled by him or his family and
using Intercontinental funds to buy real estate in the U.K.,
Judge  Michael Burton  said in a ruling in  London  today.  “Quite apart from being contrary to Nigerian law,”
Akingbola’s strategy for the bank to buy its owns shares “was
simply wrong-headed, and was plainly a substantial contributing
factor to the collapse of the bank,” Burton said.  Intercontinental was among eight lenders bailed out by the
nation’s central bank after a 2009 debt crisis caused in part by
loans to speculators in equities. Akingbola, who was fired by
Intercontinental and then sued after he moved to London, has
been back in Nigeria since 2010 defending a criminal fraud case
stemming from the bank’s failure.  Burton found Akingbola wrongfully caused the bank to
acquire 3.7 billion of its own shares between 2007 and 2009, and
that he directed about 68 million pounds to a group of companies
in which he had an interest in order to help them pay off
“substantial debts,” according to the judgment. Burton
rejected his claim that others may have been responsible.  ‘In Awe’  “I have no doubt that all the staff in the bank were in
awe of him and of his authority,” Burton said in the ruling.
While Akingbola “wasn’t a ‘details’ man,” the judge said he
didn’t “accept or believe that anything major in the bank could
have occurred or did occur without his knowledge.”  Jonathan Tickner, Akingbola’s lawyer with Peters & Peters
in London, didn’t immediately return a call or e-mail seeking
comment on the judgment.  During the trial in April and May, Akingbola was questioned
by Access Bank’s U.K. lawyers in Nigeria in a proceeding that
was broadcast live via video-link to the judge in London. Burton
said another hearing would take place in September to determine
what will happen next in the case.  The judgment “sends a strong message to international
investors in Nigeria that it is no longer ’business as usual’ in
its banking sector,” Access Bank’s lawyer, Segun Osuntokun of
Berwin Leighton Paisner LLP in London, said in a statement.  Extradition Request  The  Central Bank of Nigeria  said the country had asked the
U.K. to extradite Akingbola after the bailout, though he later
returned voluntarily to Nigeria in about July 2010 to face the
criminal case. A trial in that matter is still ongoing.  In January 2010, the bank won a U.K. court order freezing
83 million pounds of Akingbola’s assets. Nigeria’s Economic and
Financial Crimes Commission charged Akingbola later that year
with granting unauthorized loans and share-price manipulation.  There have been few public developments in the case since
it began more than two years ago, when Akingbola had trouble
paying his legal bills. Burton gave him permission at the time
to sell an $850,000 home in  Ghana  or two apartments in London
worth a total of about 1 million pounds to begin paying the
remaining costs of his legal fees.  Under the freeze order, Akingbola was supposed to be able
to pay for his defense using an  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  trustee
account on the island of Guernsey in the  English Channel . The
bank declined to release the funds after it was approached by
Nigeria, possibly triggering another legal dispute, Akingbola’s
lawyer said in court at the time.  Akingbola was managing director of Intercontinental from
1989 to 2009. It was one of Nigeria’s four biggest banks,
employing about 20,000 people and running about 350 branches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  