-- ADM Earnings Trail Analysts’ Estimates on Ethanol Loss
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-07-31T20:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/adm-earnings-trail-analysts-estimates-on-declines-in-ethanol.html
Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) , the
world’s largest corn processor, reported fiscal fourth-quarter
profit that missed analysts’ estimates as its ethanol business
swung to a loss and the U.S. drought increases corn costs.  Net income  fell to $284 million, or 43 cents a share, in
the three months through June from $381 million, or 58 cents, a
year earlier, the Decatur, Illinois-based company said today in
a statement. Profit excluding an inventory credit was 38 cents a
share, less than the 58-cent average of seven  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales declined 0.9 percent from a year earlier to
$22.7 billion.  Profit fell in all three of ADM’s  main units.  Bioproducts,
part of the corn-processing unit, had an operating loss because
of “negative ethanol margins,” ADM said. Profit in the
agricultural-services segment, which buys, stores and sells
crops, dropped 64 percent to $123 million because of lower U.S.
supplies and exports. Drought in the Midwest has cut the
potential size of the country’s coming corn harvest, ADM said.  “We expect the challenges to continue,” Ann Gurkin, a
Richmond, Virginia-based analyst at Davenport & Co. who has a
buy rating on the shares, said today in a telephone interview.
“Raw-material costs definitely create cost pressures for
ethanol. The drought is going to create challenges for
agricultural services in the next couple of quarters.”  Ethanol Losses  The ethanol industry has been losing money this year with
 inventories  at the end of June that were 4.2 percent more than a
year earlier. Rising corn prices will keep ethanol margins in
the red, Diane Geissler, a New York-based analyst for Credit
Agricole Securities, said in a July 16 report.  ADM  fell  5.1 percent to $26.09 at the close in  New York ,
the most since Sept. 22. ADM has declined 8.8 percent this year.  Four analysts in the past four weeks have reduced profit
estimates for ADM’s fiscal 2012 and 2013 largely because of
rising corn costs. Most-active corn futures in  Chicago  have
gained more than 50 percent since mid-June, and surged to a
record today, as the worst U.S. drought in five decades cuts
crop conditions and threaten yields.  Earnings in the corn-processing segment unit fell 39
percent to $74 million as ethanol losses offset profit in
sweeteners and starches. The unit uses the grain to make 24
different food, feed and fuel products while ADM’s oilseed-
processing division crushes soybeans, canola and palm.  Oilseed-processing profit declined 26 percent to $331
million partly because of lower North American soft-seed
crushing margins, the company said.  ADM’s agricultural-services unit is its  largest  by sales
while oilseed processing is the biggest by profit.  ADM today announced an agreement to purchase a port in
 Brazil ’s Para state that will increase its capacity to export
grain from western and northern parts of the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  