-- Aetna ‘Agnostic’ on Acquisition Size, CFO Zubretsky Says
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-07-31T20:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/aetna-still-has-appetite-for-big-acquisition-cfo-zubretsky-says.html
Aetna Inc. (AET)  is open to an acquisition
of any size as long as it’s a “strategic fit,” the health
insurer’s chief financial officer said, amid multibillion dollar
deals by rivals including  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  and  Cigna Corp. (CI)   Aetna, the third-biggest U.S. health plan, can access
financing to pull off a purchase even after approving $750
million in additional share repurchases last week, CFO Joseph Zubretsky said today in a telephone interview.  WellPoint said this month it would buy Medicaid insurer
 Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  for $4.9 billion, and Cigna bought Medicare
specialist Healthspring Inc. for $3.8 billion in January. While
Aetna sees other Medicaid-management companies as too expensive
right now, the Hartford, Connecticut-based company isn’t
swearing off similar deals, Zubretsky said.  “We’re agnostic as to size,” he said. “And we can use
our balance sheet and the  capital markets  to advance something
bigger. It’s just a question of strategic fit.”  Aetna declined 2.9 percent to $36.06 at the close in  New
York . The company’s shares have declined 15 percent this year.  Medicare is the U.S. government health plan for the elderly
and disabled while Medicaid is a joint federal-state program for
the poor. Medicaid insurer  Centene Corp. (CNC)  has risen 31 percent
since WellPoint announced the Amerigroup purchase July 9.
 WellCare Health Plans Inc. (WCG) , which specializes in both programs,
has gained 23 percent.  WellCare is based in Tampa,  Florida , while Centene is based
in  St. Louis . WellPoint is based in Indianapolis.  Zubresky said recent deals have been made by rivals that
needed to diversify.  ‘Well Diversified’  “I would argue that Aetna is already very well  diversified 
across geographies, across customer segments, across product
lines,” he said. “I like the diversified portfolio of
businesses we have.”  Second-quarter net income fell 15 percent to $457.6
million, or $1.32 a share, Aetna said today in a statement. That
beat analyst estimates. The insurer also raised the upper end of
its full-year profit forecast, citing growing Medicare rolls
along with improved profit margins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  