-- Affiliated Managers Boosts Stake in Feldstein’s BlueMountain
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-07-31T14:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/affiliated-managers-boosts-stake-in-feldstein-s-bluemountain.html
Affiliated Managers Group Inc., the
company with stakes in firms overseeing $385 billion, increased
its investment in BlueMountain Capital Management LLC.  A “significant portion” of the proceeds from AMG’s
boosted minority stake will be invested in BlueMountain’s more
than $7 billion of  hedge funds , according to a statement from
AMG today. As part of the deal, former JPMorgan Chase & Co.
credit derivatives pioneer Andrew Feldstein, who co-founded
BlueMountain in 2003, extended employment commitments with the
New York-based firm along with seven partners and the other
members of its management committee, AMG said.  BlueMountain’s $4.5 billion main credit fund, which
returned 10.4 percent this year through July 13, has benefited
from taking the opposite side of botched credit-default swaps
trades at JPMorgan that led to $5.8 billion in losses for the
biggest  U.S. bank . The firm helped the lender unwind more than
$20 billion of swaps positions, market participants familiar
with the transactions said last month.  Doug Hesney, a spokesman for BlueMountain, declined to
comment.  AMG, which holds stakes in 27 money managers from  London  to
 San Francisco , reported second-quarter earnings today that
dropped 85 percent from a year earlier. Net income of $6.6
million in the three months ended June 30 was down from $45.5
million in 2011, AMG said in a separate statement today.  AMG’s $7.1 billion net inflow last quarter is “especially
notable given the muted investor risk appetite observed by the
industry generally,” Sean Healey, AMG’s chief executive
officer, said in the statement. AMG specializes in taking stakes
in boutique asset managers, typically allowing management to own
a portion of their business and remain operationally autonomous.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Alan Goldstein
at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  