-- Thai Ruling Party Shelves Amnesty Bills, Constitutional Changes
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-07-31T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/thai-ruling-party-shelves-amnesty-bills-constitutional-changes.html
Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s ruling party shelved consideration of
constitutional amendments and bills that may provide amnesty for
her brother when Parliament reconvenes today.  The Pheu Thai party agreed yesterday to postpone a vote on
setting up a body to rewrite the constitution while it consults
coalition parties over the next two months, according to
spokesman Prompong Nopparit. Bills providing a broad amnesty for
political crimes that would include former Prime Minister
 Thaksin Shinawatra  were also put on hold, he said.  “We see that there are still misunderstandings and
disagreements over this issue,” Prompong said by phone. “It
spoils the mood and attempt for reconciliation. So, we will
leave it as it is for now.”  The Constitution Court suggested this month that a public
referendum should be held before Thaksin’s allies rewrite the
charter ratified after his 2006 ouster to make it more
democratic. His opponents see the moves as part of a strategy to
facilitate his return to  Thailand  and blocked Parliament last
month in an effort to thwart the initiatives.  Yingluck’s Pheu Thai party “doesn’t want to take risks or
have any problems with the court,” said Suwat Bumrungchartudom,
an analyst at Bualuang Securities Pcl in Bangkok. “It’s smart
to play it safe. People will just forget about it for awhile and
then they can bring it back again.”  Economy Beckons  The government plans to focus more on economic problems,
including handling any fallout from the  European debt crisis  and
rising costs of living, Prompong said. The  Interior Ministry 
will also start a campaign to educate the public on why it’s
necessary to change the constitution, he said.  Demonstrations by Thaksin’s supporters and opponents since
the coup have led to more than 100 deaths, the seizure of
Bangkok’s airports and blockades of downtown business areas.  “We’re not going to split the country,” Thaksin told
reporters in  Hong Kong  last week. “We’re not going to do
anything to increase the conflict.”  Thaksin has lived overseas since fleeing a two-year jail
sentence in 2008 on abuse of power charges brought by a
military-appointed panel. Yingluck has run the government since
August after her party won a majority in nationwide elections,
the fifth straight victory for allies of Thaksin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  