-- Thailand’s Boomlet Needs Stable Politics to Endure
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-31T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/thailand-s-boomlet-needs-stable-politics-to-endure.html
Thailand  just dodged a big fat
bullet. With Parliament set to reopen Wednesday, the government
of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra wisely decided to shelve
consideration of two pieces of legislation that threatened to
upset the country’s tenuous political stability. Now it needs to
take steps to promote comity and ensure continued economic
progress.  With  growth  this year of more than 5 percent and surging
foreign investment, Thailand is a relative bright spot on the
economic horizon. As Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its
September issue, the country has spawned world-class enterprises
with global reach.  Looming over that success, however, are Thailand’s
fractious politics.     Roiled by 18 coup attempts over the past
eight decades, Thailand’s political arena is not for the faint
of heart. Protests in 2010 led to arson  attacks , military
assaults and more than 90 deaths.  Their proximate cause is the fate of Yingluck’s brother,
former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra , ousted in a 2006
military coup and living in self-imposed exile after his 2008
sentencing for helping his then-wife purchase property from the
government. Since his ouster, Thaksin’s supporters and opponents
have battled for political control in Thailand’s streets, courts
and Parliament.  As part of that struggle, Yingluck’s Pheu Thai party was
pushing two contentious parliamentary initiatives. One was a
rewrite of Thailand’s most recent constitution, which was
drafted at the military’s behest and is the country’s 17th since
1932. The other was a bill that would effectively grant amnesty
to Thaksin and pave the way for his return. He also stands to
regain some $1.5 billion in confiscated assets.  Peacefully resolving the fate of Thaksin, who remains
popular and whose allies have won the last five elections, is
critical to Thailand’s political stability. And given the
current constitution’s tainted provenance and anti-democratic
provisions reducing the clout of elected legislators, it merits
revisiting.  But these are  challenges  for another day. Yingluck’s
decision to set them aside is especially appropriate given the
frail health of Thailand’s revered King Bhumibol Adulyadej, in
whose defense the military claimed to act in removing Thaksin.
Indeed, the king’s waning presence puts Thai politics at a
particularly delicate juncture.  Any accommodation between Yingluck’s party and its Thaksin-
hating opponents will be slow. Yingluck, however, could take the
high road in two important ways:  First, she could support  reforms  to the country’s strict
lese majeste laws, instead of expanding their reach in
cyberspace to curry favor with the military and the monarchy --
a tactic that has led to curbs on free speech.  Second, she could put Thailand on a more sustainable growth
track by forgoing short-term populist  gimmicks  in favor of
investing in education and increasing worker productivity. Fuel
subsidies, minimum wage  increases  and rice price guarantees may
win votes, but they won’t ultimately help the poorest or ease
regional disparities and the country’s persistent income
inequality, much less swell the ranks of the new corporate
champions that are putting Thailand on the map.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on demanding a compromise to
 stop the fiscal cliff ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Mitt Romney ’s
 stumbles over his wealth ; Clive Crook on why  Germany  should let
the ECB do  “whatever it takes” ;  Amity Shlaes  on why the Fed
should  stop sailing against the wind ; Mikhail Chernov on the
 benefits of Libor rigging ; Richard Cohen on the drama of the
 Olympic fencing duels ; Handel Reynolds on the  politics of
mammograms .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 