-- Air Force Targets Valve to Fix F-22 Jet’s Oxygen Problems
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-08-01T04:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/air-force-targets-valve-to-fix-f-22-jet-s-oxygen-problems.html
The U.S.  Air Force  has “high
confidence” that it has solved a yearlong mystery over why at
least a dozen pilots flying the F-22 Raptor jet fighter became
dizzy and disoriented.  Major General Charles Lyon, director of operations for the
Air Combat Command who led a  task force  to solve the problem,
said yesterday a valve that regulates oxygen flow into a Raptor
pilot’s pressure vest was too weak to prevent the vest from
inflating unnecessarily and restricting a pilot’s ability to
breathe.  “I have high confidence we have eliminated the major
contributors to the problem,” Lyon told a Pentagon news
conference.  A stronger valve will be installed and tested by the end of
the year, he said. Until then, the F-22, made by Bethesda,
Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , will be restricted to
lower altitudes so pilots don’t need a pressure vest.  Lyon said he doesn’t know the cost of all the fixes, which
include a back-up emergency oxygen system, “but it’s in the
millions” of dollars.  Lyon’s briefing added new details to the Pentagon’s
announcement last week that it had begun taking corrective
action.  While the valve has performed satisfactorily for pilots of
older F-15 and F-16 fighters, the F-22 is designed to fly at
higher altitudes, which requires continuously pumping more
oxygen to the pilots, Lyon said. The valve wasn’t strong enough
to prevent that higher pressure oxygen from inflating the
pilots’ vests at lower altitudes.  Inflating Early  “It’s inflating before it should,” Lyon said of the vest.
“So it’s like putting a corset around your chest.”  F-22 pilots haven’t worn the pressure vests since June
because of that concern, and there have been no unexplained
hypoxia-related incidents since March, he said.  Reports of unexplained hypoxia -- lack of oxygen -- sent
the Air Force on a yearlong investigation that required studying
everything from hoses and masks to the plane’s radar-absorbing
stealth skin.  “In the end, there is no smoking gun,” Lyon said. While
all the parts to the pilots’ life-support system, including the
valve in question, worked as designed, they didn’t work well
enough together in the F-22’s unique performance envelope, he
said.  Cold-War Development  The  Raptor , conceived during the  Cold War  as a fighter for
the 21st Century, is a “hybrid” that flies at high speeds and
high altitudes. Considered a fourth generation stealth aircraft,
it has a top speed of about 1,500 miles per hour (2,410
kilometers per hour), more than twice the speed of sound, and a
service ceiling of roughly 65,000 feet (19,800 meters), although
the exact figures are classified.  “We hadn’t had any other airplanes that had done that,”
Lyon said.  The Pentagon has spent $67 billion to buy 188 of the
supersonic jets from Lockheed Martin, the world’s largest
defense contractor. It plans to spend an additional $11.7
billion to upgrade the planes at a time when the military is
cutting spending after a decade of war in Iraq and  Afghanistan .  The possibility of contamination from toxins in the cockpit
air was ruled out after thousands of samples of gases and
compounds were studied, and “we found nothing remarkable,”
Lyon said.  In a signal of the military’s confidence in the plane,
Defense Secretary Leon Panetta authorized the deployment of a
squadron of F-22s to Kadena Air Base in  Japan  last week.  Asked why the planes were deployed before all the fixes are
completed, Lyon said, “When we deploy the F-22, it reassures
our allies and our friends. We send them the very best that we
have from the aviation component.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  