-- AirAsia Japan Starts Flying as Budget Lines Take on ANA, JAL
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-08-01T02:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/airasia-japan-starts-flights-as-budget-carriers-take-on-ana-jal.html
AirAsia  Japan  Co. became the third
budget airline to start flights in the country this year,
stepping up competition with full-service operators.  The first service left Tokyo’s Narita airport on time at 7
a.m. and arrived at Fukuoka at 9 a.m., according to a statement
from the company, which is part-owned by  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , the
region’s biggest discount airline. There were 118 passengers and
six crew on the Airbus SAS  A320 , it said.  The airline is offering fares at less than half the price
of  Japan Airlines Co. (9202)  and All Nippon Airways Co. as it seeks to
fly 10 million passengers annually within five years. Its debut
follows the start of flights by Peach Aviation Ltd. in March and
by  Jetstar Japan Co.  last month.  “We want to create demand for flying that didn’t exist
before,” Chief Executive Officer Kazuyuki Iwakata told
reporters at  Tokyo ’s Narita airport today. “We want to change
Japan’s skies so people can catch a flight like taking a bus to
go and get lunch.”  AirAsia Japan, which also offers flights to Sapporo in
northern Japan and Naha in the south of the country, aims to add
overseas flights to  South Korea  from October, Iwakata said.  The carrier may also start flights from Nagoya to Fukuoka,
Sapporo and Naha from next year, he said.  AirAsia Japan intends to build a fleet of at least 30
planes within five years. All Nippon has a stake in the airline
and in Peach Aviation. Jetstar Japan’s shareholders include
Japan Air and  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  