-- Taiwan GDP Shrinks as Slowdown Seen From Japan to Korea
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-07-31T05:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/taiwan-economy-unexpectedly-shrinks-as-europe-hurts-exports-1-.html
Taiwan ’s economy unexpectedly shrank,
South Korean output fell and a Japanese manufacturing gauge
reached the lowest level since the wake of the 2011 earthquake,
adding to the case for expanded stimulus policies in  Asia .  Gross domestic product  in Taiwan fell 0.16 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, according to preliminary
data released by the statistics bureau in Taipei today. A
purchasing managers’ index in Japan slipped to 47.9 in July from
49.9 in the previous month, according to Markit Economics, while
South Korea’s industrial production declined 0.4 percent in June.  The impact of  Europe ’s debt crisis has increased pressure
on Asian authorities to support growth, with the  Philippines 
unexpectedly cutting  interest rates  last week and central bank
officials in Japan and  Thailand  indicating they are ready to
ease policy if necessary. The U.S.  Federal Reserve  and the
 European Central Bank  meet this week as speculation they will
take steps to bolster growth spurs gains in stocks.  “Policy makers will continue to roll out measures to
protect growth from the euro zone market turbulence and
recession, as well as from the slowdown in  China  and the U.S.,”
said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB. “There is monetary room in Asia but it is
somewhat limited,” he said, predicting interest-rate cuts in
 India  and rising chances of easing in  Vietnam ,  Malaysia ,  South
Korea  and Taiwan.  Asian stocks advanced a fourth day, with the  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index (MXAP)  gaining 1.2 percent as of 2:42 p.m. in  Tokyo ,
headed for a second monthly gain.  Downside Risks  The Federal Reserve starts a two-day policy meeting today
amid speculation it will add to monetary stimulus to boost the
economy. U.S. consumer spending probably rose 0.1 percent in
June following no change in May, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Conference Board’s index of  consumer confidence 
probably fell in July for a fifth month, the longest stretch of
declines since the first half of 2008, a separate poll showed.
The gauge is estimated to have fallen to 61.5 from 62 in June.  Elsewhere, euro-area unemployment may have climbed to 11.2
percent in June from 11.1 percent a month earlier, according to
a Bloomberg News survey. Inflation data for the euro area is
also due today.  Japan ’s  jobless rate  unexpectedly fell to 4.3 percent in
June from 4.4 percent the previous month, a report showed today.
The decline may not be enough to dispel concerns that the
economy’s recovery is losing steam. The PMI reading is the
lowest since April 2011, a month after the earthquake.  Warning Signal  “The figures are flashing a warning signal to Japan’s
recovery,” said Shuichi Obata, senior economist at Nomura
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Japanese companies are becoming more
cautious of the outlook.”  Japan’s Cabinet today approved a strategy to meet an
average nominal growth target of 3 percent through fiscal 2020,
which includes the creation of a 50 trillion-yen ($640 billion)
market in medicine, nursing and health care, that will create
2.84 million jobs. The plan includes a pledge to work with the
 Bank of Japan  to combat deflation and a strong yen.  South Korean  output  fell for the first time in three months
in June, Statistics Korea said today. Bank of Korea Governor Kim
Choong Soo warned last week the economy is losing steam, fueling
speculation policy makers will follow a surprise rate cut on
July 12 with further easing.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao kept the
benchmark  repurchase rate  at 8 percent today as predicted by 31
of 34 economists in a Bloomberg survey, and reduced the
statutory liquidity ratio to 23 percent from 24 percent,
effective Aug. 11, the first cut since 2010.  Fiscal Support  The central bank forecast a 6.5 percent expansion in the
12 months through March 2013, down from an earlier prediction of
7.3 percent. It estimated inflation of 7 percent by the end of
the period, compared with a previous projection of 6.5 percent.  Taiwan cut its 2012 growth forecast to 2.08 percent from
3.03 percent today. The economy last contracted in 2009.  “Today’s GDP disappointment will add pressure on the
central bank to cut rates, but with CPI still trending up and
monetary conditions accommodative, we think fiscal policy would
be more effective for sustaining growth,” said Donna Kwok, a
Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. While chances of
a rate cut have risen, “more government fiscal support will
likely come first,” she said.  Taiwan’s  exports  have fallen for the past four months even
as accelerating inflation crimps scope for lowering borrowing
costs, prompting the government to consider stimulus measures.  Selective Controls  The central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged
at 1.875 percent for the fourth straight meeting in June and
imposed selective controls on luxury housing. Premier Sean Chen
last month asked the central bank to closely monitor domestic
and global economic and financial conditions, and adopt
appropriate monetary policies.  “The central bank seems to remain concerned about
inflation and property bubbles on a pre-emptive basis,” Raymond Yeung, a Hong Kong-based economist at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd., wrote in a note last week. “As inflation
has not trended down in considering the recent rebound of crude
and increasing weather risks, our baseline is that the central
bank is inclined to hold.”  The pressure to bolster the economy comes as President Ma Ying-jeou’s approval rate fell to 15 percent, the lowest since
he took office in 2008, according to a survey conducted by TVBS
Poll Center on July 2 and 3.  Exports Fall  Lawmakers from the opposition last week proposed a no-
confidence vote against Chen and his Cabinet, and the government
has faced two exits: secretary general Lin Yi-shih resigned in
June amid bribery allegations, while Christina Liu stepped down
as finance minister in May because of disagreements over the
proposed capital-gains tax. The parliament approved a plan last
week on the levy, capping almost four months of debate.  Industrial production  unexpectedly declined in June, a
report last week showed, while exports, which make up the
equivalent of two-thirds of the economy, also fell last month as
sales declined at companies including Chimei Innolux Corp.,
Taiwan’s largest maker of liquid-crystal displays.  The consumer-price  index  climbed 1.77 percent in June from
a year earlier, after rising 1.74 percent the previous month,
with damage to crops from rainstorms and electricity tariff
increases in the second half posing further inflationary risks.  Taiwan today raised the inflation forecast for the year to
1.9 percent from 1.84 percent and cut the export growth estimate
to 0.07 percent from 2.69 percent.  “We’re seeing the chance of inflation rising above 2
percent in the third quarter,” said Michelle Tsai, a Taipei-
based analyst at Jih Sun Securities Co. “That’s going to make
it more difficult for the central bank. I don’t think there’ll
be room to cut the benchmark rate for the rest of the year.
Instead, it will adjust liquidity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  