-- Allstate Beats Analysts’ Estimates as Disaster Costs Fall
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-08-01T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/allstate-posts-423-million-profit-as-costs-from-disasters-drop.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the largest publicly
traded U.S. home and auto insurer, posted second-quarter profit
that exceeded analysts’ estimates as costs tied to natural
disasters dropped.  Net income was $423 million, or 86 cents a share, compared
with a loss of $624 million, or $1.19, a year earlier, the
Northbrook, Illinois-based company said yesterday in a
statement. Operating profit, which excludes some investment
results, was 87 cents a share, beating the 52-cent average
 estimate  of 23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Tom Wilson, 54, has been seeking
rate increases and changing terms of policies to boost
profitability as severe weather increases claims costs and low
 interest rates  put pressure on investment income from the
company’s bond portfolio. Tornadoes and other storms in the U.S.
erased profit in last year’s second quarter.  “Allstate is trying to drive higher margin and is making a
reasonable amount of progress,” Josh Stirling, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in an interview before results
were announced. “Last year was a dramatic event, and it was a
shocking event, too, because you had so many large tornadoes.”  Allstate climbed 3.9 percent to $35.65 yesterday in
extended trading. The shares had advanced 25 percent this year
through the close of regular trading, the best performance in
the 24-company KBW Insurance Index.  Book value , a measure of assets minus liabilities, advanced
to $39.73 a share from $38.57 as of March 31.  Fewer Tornadoes  Catastrophes cost Allstate $819 million in the quarter,
compared with $2.34 billion a year earlier. Hail from  Texas  to
 Wyoming  and windstorms along the U.S. East Coast added to
industry claims costs in the period, even as fewer tornadoes
were  reported  than a year earlier, according to broker Aon Plc.  Premium revenue in Allstate’s property and liability
business rose 3.2 percent to $6.67 billion from a year earlier.
The insurer earned 2 cents for every premium dollar in its
property and liability coverage division compared with a loss of
about 23 cents a year earlier.  Allstate received approval for rate increases in 20 states,
averaging 8.6 percent, for its namesake brand of homeowners’
coverage in the first half, the company said yesterday in a
quarterly filing. The insurer also has altered underwriting
standards to improve shareholder returns.  Auto Insurance  Some of the rate increases for residential coverage have
hurt Allstate’s market share in auto insurance, Wilson said in
May. The company, which gives discounts to customers who bundle
the products, has lost customers as younger drivers shun buying
policies from agents and shop for coverage online.  Progressive Corp. (PGR)  and Geico Corp., a division of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , sell policies directly to
consumers over the Internet and have added customers in recent
years. Wilson last year  purchased  Esurance, an online car-
insurance provider, to compete.  Net investment income rose less than 1 percent $1.03
billion from a year earlier on a higher contribution from
limited partnerships. Income from the company’s fixed-income
portfolio slipped 9 percent to $818 million from a year earlier.  Falling yields for fixed-income securities have hurt
insurers’ investment income as proceeds from maturing bonds are
reinvested at lower rates. Ten-year Treasuries dropped below 1.5
percent for the first time on June 1.  Wilson has reshaped Allstate’s investment portfolio since
2008, when writedowns contributed to an  annual loss  of $1.68
billion. The insurer has added intermediate-duration corporate
bonds and cut back on short-term Treasuries and long-term
municipal debt to lift returns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  