-- Amtrak Shifts Strategy From Begging for Money to Thinking Big
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-07-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/amtrak-shifts-strategy-from-begging-for-money-to-thinking-big.html
Amtrak , the corporation created by
Congress when private industry abandoned U.S. passenger rail, is
trying to overcome its chronic lack of money with a new strategy
-- thinking far beyond its means.  In the past three weeks, Amtrak proposed a renovation of
Washington’s  Union Station  that would cost at least $6.5 billion
and published a $151 billion, three-decade plan for bringing
220-miles-per-hour service to its busiest route, between
Washington and  Boston . It’s working toward a future with bullet
trains, though Congress killed President  Barack Obama ’s high-
speed rail funding proposal last year and Republicans in the
 House of Representatives  want to do it again this year.  Amtrak, which got a $1.4 billion federal subsidy this year
and needs congressional reauthorization to continue operations
past September 2013, has decided it’s better to be ambitious
than to continually beg for enough money to keep trains rolling.  “It’s an aggressive strategy to put themselves in a better
negotiating position,” said Joshua Schank, president and chief
executive officer of the  Eno Center for Transportation , a
 Washington  research group. “Rather than playing defense and
asking for a little bit of money so they just don’t die, they’re
saying, ‘Here’s what we could accomplish if we really get some
money.’”  Washington-based Amtrak’s plan for Union Station calls for
new rail beds to double train capacity, with spots for bullet
trains that don’t yet exist, and an expansion to handle three
times the number of passengers. The railroad said the project
would spur development, such as a 3 million-square-foot
commercial and residential project the Washington developer
Akridge proposes to build on top of tracks leading into the
station.  Vision Needed  “If you don’t have a vision or a plan for where you’re
going, you’re not going to get anything funded,” said Joe Boardman, Amtrak’s president and chief executive officer.  For detractors like the  Heritage Foundation ’s Emily Goff,
Amtrak’s proposal, building on a structure that requires
government subsidies, amounts to throwing good money after bad.  “I don’t think it’s realistic to expect taxpayers to be
willing to keep funding these programs, when Amtrak serves such
a small sliver of the traveling public,” Goff said.  A better solution would open up Amtrak routes to
competitive bidding to lower costs, Goff said.  The National Railroad Passenger Rail Corp.’s founding in
1970 enabled 20 railroads, including Penn Central, Burlington
Northern and  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , to get out of the money-losing
passenger rail business. The U.S. government owns all of
Amtrak’s preferred stock, making Congress its ultimate boss.  Northeast Corridor  Union Station is the southern terminus of Amtrak’s
Northeast Corridor, where ridership on regional and Acela trains
grew 30 percent to 10.9 million in fiscal 2011 from 8.4 million
in fiscal 2000, according to the railroad.  The Northeast Corridor is the only place Amtrak gets enough
revenue to cover its operating costs. In its plan to upgrade the
corridor, Amtrak said ridership may grow to 43.5 million people
annually with ticket revenue of $4.86 billion by 2040 -- roughly
four times last year’s ridership and about five times the ticket
sales of $983.5 million.  “The plan is completely unrealistic and Amtrak wasted its
money developing it,” said Randal O’Toole, a researcher with
the  Cato Institute , which advocates for free markets and limited
government. “There is no way that Amtrak can get the private
sector to fund more than a trivial amount.”  Government Support  Boardman said earlier this month that Amtrak will need
significant government support “at some level or all levels”
to start its $151 billion upgrade plan before attracting outside
investment for a public-private partnership.  House Transportation  and Infrastructure Committee Chairman
 John Mica  has called for greater private-sector investment in
passenger rail projects and private competition for rail
service, to the point he briefly proposed a bill last year to
remove Amtrak from managing the Northeast Corridor. The Florida
Republican, who has described Amtrak’s operations as “Soviet
style,” has scheduled an Aug. 2 hearing on its losses running
food and beverage services.  Funding for the railroad has varied. The House passed an
appropriations bill for fiscal 2013 with $1.8 billion, which is
more than this year’s $1.4 billion and less than the $2.5
billion sought in Obama’s budget. Only about a third of Amtrak’s
U.S. support goes for operations; this year, it got $466 million
for operations and $952 million for capital and debt service.  Authorizing Legislation  The surface transportation policy bill Congress passed on
June 29 didn’t include a separate section on passenger rail, as
it typically does. Because Amtrak’s current authorizing
legislation expires at the end of fiscal 2013, that ensures
there will be renewed debate next year about Amtrak and how to
expand passenger rail service in the Northeast.  Money questions have crimped overhauls of Amtrak stations.
Amtrak has said it can’t afford a proposal to move from  New
York ’s  Penn Station , which it owns, unless it can get
effectively rent-free use of a new facility planned for the
James A. Farley Post Office.  The railroad will pay for part of the Union Station plan
with ticket revenue, Boardman told reporters July 25, without
saying how much.  Over Amtrak’s entire system, passenger tickets pay for 76
percent of operating costs, according to an Amtrak fact sheet.
Ridership is on pace to break the 2011 record of 30.2 million
passengers, up from 20.9 million in 2000.  Attracting Investment  If Amtrak were an airline, it would be able to charge its
passengers a separate fee to finance construction projects.
That’s not built into U.S. rail law, said Ross Capon, president
and chief executive officer of the National Association of
Railroad Passengers. Amtrak may already be charging what the
market will bear for tickets, he said.  Amtrak’s ambitious proposals may be a smart way to attract
investors, said Robert Puentes, an expert in infrastructure
financing at the  Brookings Institution , a Washington-based
research organization.  Sovereign wealth funds are increasingly looking for ways to
invest in U.S. transportation projects, he said, citing a $2
billion infusion from  China  into a California project.  “There’s going to be a big conversation about Amtrak next
year,” Puentes said. “ There’s an aspirational piece to this.
They need to think about the future, about what passenger rail
is going to look like in this country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  