-- MAN Freezes Hiring on Drop in European Truck Demand
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W u e s t n e r
-- 2012-07-31T11:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/man-freezes-hiring-on-drop-in-european-truck-demand.html
MAN SE (MAN) , the German truckmaker
controlled by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , has put a halt on hiring to cut
costs as the sovereign debt crisis saps commercial vehicle
demand in  Europe .  MAN predicted that industrywide sales of trucks and buses
in Europe will decline by 5 percent to 10 percent this year, the
Munich-based company said today at a press conference. To adjust
to lower demand, the manufacturer plans to reduce production in
line with the market decline this year and will spread out
spending on investments including projects in  Brazil  and  Russia .  “At first glance, the measures look like very little in
light of the decline in profitability,” said Sascha Gommel, a
Frankfurt-based analyst with Commerzbank. “MAN had by far the
worst earnings report of any truckmaker and that shows why it’s
important to be global.”  Unlike  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and Daimler AG, MAN is chiefly focused on
Europe and Latin America, giving it few options to compensate
for declines in those regions with growth elsewhere. Sales of
trucks and buses in the European Union dropped 10.8 percent in
the first six months of 2012, according to auto industry trade
group ACEA. Demand in Brazil fell after the country introduced
tighter emissions standards and the economy cooled.  Lower Forecast  Shares in MAN  declined  as much as 1.5 percent to 75.80
euros and were  down 0.2 percent as of 1:33 p.m. in Frankfurt
trading. The stock has risen 12 percent this year, valuing the
company at 11.3 billion euros ($13.9 billion).  MAN lowered its 2012 earnings forecast on July 25 after
second-quarter operating profit tumbled 50 percent to 218
million euros. Sales declined 9 percent to 3.85 billion euros,
and orders fell 10 percent to 3.96 billion euros.  At the commercial vehicles division, operating profit
plunged 77 percent to 64 million euros on a sales drop of 12
percent to 2.87 billion euros. MAN’s hiring freeze is targeted
at the company’s European commercial vehicles unit, where it
reduced the number of temporary workers by half to 900 people.  “We are not satisfied with our operating result and have
already taken the appropriate countermeasures,” Chief Executive
Officer Georg Pachta-Reyhofen said. “We are focusing closely on
cost management.”  Lower Margins  MAN forecast its return on sales to drop to about 6
percent, after previously expecting the operating profit margin
to slip to about 8.5 percent from 9 percent in 2011. MAN
predicted a “slight” decline in revenue this year. The company
expects its commercial vehicle revenues to decline as much as 5
percent.  “MAN is too dependent on Europe and  Latin America , which
are both experiencing difficulties,” Hans-Peter Wodniok, an
analyst with Fairesearch in Kronberg,  Germany , said prior to
today’s statement. “In the coming months, I expect double-digit
declines for truck sales in Europe.”  Volkswagen in June raised its holding in MAN to more than
75 percent. The Wolfsburg, Germany-based company has said it is
considering seeking a domination agreement as it pushes for
tighter cooperation between MAN, Scania and its own commercial
vehicle operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wuestner in Berlin at 
 cwuestner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  