-- Angelo Gordon to Start Mortgage Fund for Property Recovery Bet
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   N a t h a n i e l   B a k e r
-- 2012-07-31T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/angelo-gordon-to-start-mortgage-fund-for-property-recovery-bet.html
Angelo Gordon & Co., the $24 billion
firm started by John Angelo and  Michael Gordon , plans a
residential and commercial mortgage fund betting on a real
estate recovery, according to a presentation.  The fund, the AG Securitized Asset Recovery Fund, or STAR,
will invest in a variety of residential and commercial mortgage
securities and target a net internal rate of return of at least
15 percent, Angelo Gordon said in the presentation, a copy of
which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  “After several years of continued declines in housing and
commercial real estate pricing, Angelo Gordon is now cautiously
optimistic that a nascent recovery is beginning in these
markets,” the New York-based firm said in the July 26
presentation.  The firm joins  hedge funds  including Brevan Howard Asset
Management LLP and D.E. Shaw & Co. in starting pools this year
to buy securities tied to mortgages. Angelo Gordon estimates
“transitional asset holders” such as governments and legacy
investors have more than $120 billion in non-agency residential
mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed
securities and collateralized debt obligation assets that are
potentially for sale, with $80 billion of that from European
banks seeking to cut leverage and adhere to new capital rules.  U.S. residential real estate prices fell in April at the
slowest pace in more than a year, adding to signs the housing
market is firming. U.S. commercial-property prices are
recovering after falling as much as 39 percent from a 2007 peak,
according to an index compiled by Moody’s Investors Service and
Real Capital Analytics Inc.  Property Values  STAR will be managed by Jonathan Lieberman, Angelo Gordon’s
head of residential and consumer loans, Andrew Solomon, head of
commercial real estate debt and portfolio manager, and a team of
14 others, according to the presentation, which did not say how
much the firm has raised in assets or commitments or when the
strategy starts trading.  Garrett Walls, a managing director at Angelo Gordon, didn’t
respond to a telephone call seeking comment.  Returns may exceed 25 percent in case of a real estate
recovery, or range in the single digits in a “downside” case.
The firm’s “stress” case includes a slow rebound where U.S.
unemployment remains above 8 percent for a long period and
property prices fall 10 percent to 20 percent, according to the
presentation.  PPIP Manager  Angelo Gordon manages several funds and separate accounts
that already invest in commercial and residential mortgage
securities, the firm said in the presentation. Angelo Gordon was
among nine managers selected in 2009 to take part in the U.S.
government’s Public-Private Investment Partnership to spur the
purchase of mortgage-backed securities from banks.  The AG GECC Public-Private Investment Fund LP, which
invests in commercial and residential mortgage-backed securities
originally rated AAA and originated before 2009, is up an
estimated 18 percent this year through June after falling 9.3
percent last year, gaining 48 percent in 2010 and declining 2.3
percent in 2009, according to the presentation.  AG Mortgage Value Partners LP, which invests in residential
mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities, special
situations and secured asset-based financing, rose an estimated
8.4 percent this year, 6.4 percent in 2011, 24 percent in 2010
and 30 percent in 2009. AG MVP Plus LP, which buys similar
assets, rose 12 percent this year, 15 percent last year, 19
percent in 2010 and 25 percent in 2009.  AG Commercial Real Estate Debt Fund LP, which invests in
commercial mortgage-backed securities and other real estate debt
originally rated investment grade, is up 3 percent this year
after falling 1.9 percent last year, rising 90 percent in 2010,
80 percent in 2009 and dropping 77 percent in 2008. AG Real
Estate Debt Investment Fund LP, which allocates to similar
assets, climbed 12 percent this year and fell 3.8 percent in
2011.  Angelo Gordon, which manages fixed income, real estate,
buyout and hedge funds, was founded in 1988 by Chief Executive
Officer Angelo and Chief Investment Officer Gordon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at   kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Nathaniel Baker in New York at 
 nbaker14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  