-- Anti-Putin Activist Navalny Faces 10 Years for Embezzlement
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-07-31T13:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/anti-putin-leader-navalny-faces-10-years-on-embezzlement-charges.html
Russian opposition leader Alexey Navalny faces as much as 10 years in jail after being charged
with embezzlement, marking an escalation in President  Vladimir Putin ’s crackdown on the biggest unrest of his 12-year rule.  The Investigative Committee increased the severity of the
charges against Navalny, accusing him of defrauding a state
timber company of 16 million rubles ($496,000) in the Kirov
region, the agency  said  on its website today. Navalny, 36, an
anti-corruption activist who helped organize mass protests
against Putin, previously risked a maximum sentence of five
years for causing a 1.3 million-ruble loss to the firm.  Navalny  was barred from leaving  Russia  by investigators,
who said that two more people linked to the case will soon be
charged. The accusations are “astonishing,” Navalny said on
his blog.  Putin, 59, who won another six years at the Kremlin in
March, has responded to the largest demonstrations since he came
to power in 2000 by tightening controls over the Internet and
prosecuting opposition activists and leaders.  ‘Fierce’ Activist  “We should be concerned with attempts in Russia to silence
fierce opposition activist Alexey Navalny,” Swedish Foreign
Minister Carl Bildt said on his Twitter Inc.  account .  The authorities have charged 15 protesters over clashes
with police on the eve of the Russian leader’s May 7
inauguration, and are holding 13 of them in pre-trial detention.
Opposition leaders including Navalny also face possible charges
of inciting violence against officials carrying a maximum
sentence of 10 years in jail. Three activists have asked for
political asylum abroad, according to Ekho Moskvy.  Russian billionaire newspaper owner  Alexander Lebedev , who
backs the opposition movement, said in a July 24 interview that
he expects to be charged in a criminal case relating to his
brawl with a rival businessman last September.  Lebedev has been investigated on charges of hooliganism,
which carry a maximum prison term of five years. He’s financing
the anti-graft drive of Navalny, who was elected last month to
the board of state carrier OAO Aeroflot after Lebedev proposed
him as an independent director.  Show Trials  “This is political dissent against Putin and that is why
the state is overreacting,” Lebedev said yesterday in an
interview with  Sky News , comparing the crackdown to the Soviet-
era “trials against political dissenters at the end of the
1960s and in the 1970s.”  In November 2010, Navalny published on his website what he
said was a report by the government budget watchdog showing that
officials at state oil pipeline operator OAO Transneft embezzled
$4 billion while building a link to the  Pacific Ocean  that
opened a year late in December 2009. The allegation has been
denied by the company and the Audit Chamber watchdog.  “It will be a pity if he gets put away,” Michael Kart,
managing partner at Spectrum Partners in Moscow, which has about
$150 million under management. “Without Navalny, activism won’t
die in Russia but if he is going to be arrested, it will be a
major step back for the political advocacy movement.”  The 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slumped for the first time in five
days, retreating 1 percent to 1,413.95 by 5:09 p.m. Russia’s
benchmark gauge trades at 5.2 times estimated earnings, having
added 0.8 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
9.8 times for companies in the  MSCI Emerging Market Index (MXEF) , which
has added 4.5 percent this year. Russian equities have the
cheapest valuations based on estimated earnings among 21
 emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg.  Kirov Wood  Investigators say that Navalny and two others embezzled
more than 10,000 cubic meters of wood products at timber company
Kirovles from May through September 2009. Navalny, a lawyer, was
working at the time as an unpaid adviser on corporate governance
to Kirov Governor Nikita Belykh, who came to his defense after
the accusations were first made public.  In February 2011 and  May  this year, the Investigative
Committee twice overruled regional prosecutors who had dropped
the case against Navalny.  Increasing pressure against dissenters, three members of a
Russian all-female punk group are facing seven years in jail for
a political protest in February targeting Putin inside Moscow’s
Christ the Savior cathedral. Their trial began yesterday.  Putin’s Premiership  Putin kept power from 2008 as prime minister after handing
the presidency to his protege,  Dmitry Medvedev , because of a
constitutional ban on three consecutive Kremlin terms. Putin’s
decision in September to reclaim the top job and push Medvedev
aside, followed by allegations of fraud in December
parliamentary elections, brought tens of thousands onto the
streets of Russian cities.  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , once the richest man in the country,
is serving 13 years in prison for two separate convictions for
fraud, embezzlement and tax evasion. The former billionaire
owner of Yukos Oil Co. was arrested at gunpoint when his private
jet was stormed at a Siberian airport in October 2003 and his
company was dismantled over tax claims and largely nationalized.
Khodorkovsky said it was retribution for his funding political
parties opposing Putin, claims that the Kremlin rejected.  The U.S. and European Union criticized Khodorkovsky’s
latest conviction in December 2010, saying it showed a failure
to respect the rule of law that was harmful to the investment
climate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  