-- Apple Rises as Bernstein Sees Stock Split, Dow Membership Ahead
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 2012-07-31T20:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/apple-considering-stock-split-could-join-dow-bernstein-says.html
Apple (AAPL)  Inc. climbed the most in more
than two months after Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said the
company is considering a stock split, which could prompt it to
be added to the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Apple, the world’s largest company by market value, rose
2.6 percent to $610.76 at the close in New York, for the biggest
gain since May 21. The shares of the Cupertino, California-based
company have increased 51 percent this year.  The company’s decision in March to pay its first dividend
in 17 years makes it more likely the stock could be added to the
Dow index after a split, said  Toni Sacconaghi , an analyst at
Bernstein who rates the shares outperform, in a report today.  “We see the timing as ripe,” Sacconaghi said. “Apple’s
initiation of a dividend brings the company in line with all
other Dow components. We note that Apple is currently the only
company above $215 billion in market cap that pays a dividend
and is not included in the Dow.”  Steve Dowling, an Apple spokesman, declined to comment.
Apple said in March that it didn’t see a stock split as in the
best interest of shareholders, though the company continues to
review the possibility. Sacconaghi couldn’t be reached for
comment, and the Bernstein report didn’t indicate the basis for
its stock split prediction.  There are five technology companies in the 30-member Dow
index:  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   Dow Reshuffle  Dow membership was last reshuffled in June 2009, when Cisco
and Travelers Cos. replaced General Motors Corp., which filed
for  bankruptcy protection , and Citigroup Inc., the recipient of
$45 billion in taxpayer aid.  Apple and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  have been passed over for inclusion
because the shares would command the biggest weightings in the
index, which ranks stocks by price. With both stocks trading
above $600, they would have three times the influence of IBM,
which has the largest weight in the index.  “Excluding IBM, tech’s weighting in the Dow is only 5.3
percent,” Sacconaghi said. Compared to the  Standard & Poor’s 
500 index, which is weighted by market value, technology stocks
are underweight by 370 basis points in the Dow, he said. Apple
has a 4.55 percent weighting in the S&P.  “This disparity between tech weighting in the Dow and  S&P
500  leads us to believe Dow is likely to add more tech stocks,
and that Apple would be a primary candidate if the company split
its stock.”  Historic Splits  Nine companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index have
announced stock splits this year and 16 did in 2011, according
to S&P. That compares with an average of 35 from 2004 through
2007 and represents a fraction of the 102 in 1997, the data
show. Splits are designed to attract investors by making stocks
more affordable.  While the  bull market  that began in March 2009 has pushed
the benchmark gauge for U.S. equities within 10 percent of its
record high this year, the lack of splits helped send the
average price of shares in the S&P 500 to a record $58.52 apiece
on April 30, more than two decades of data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That’s 9.1 percent higher than when the index reached its
all-time high of 1,565.15 in October 2007 and 31 percent above
the index peak in 2000.  The Dow average was devised by Charles H. Dow, co-founder
of Wall Street Journal publisher Dow Jones & Co., and began in
1896 with 12 companies including General Electric Co. and
American Tobacco. It  expanded  to 20 companies in 1916 and to 30
in 1928. In July, the Dow was taken over by S&P Dow Jones
Indices, a joint venture of McGraw-Hill Cos. and CME Group Inc.  Kraft Decision  Members must have an “excellent” reputation, show
sustained growth and “be of interest to a large number of
investors,” according to the S&P Dow Jones Indices  website .
About
$28 billion in products such as exchanged-traded funds are
linked
to the index, and changes prompt money managers to buy or sell
stocks to match the adjustments.  The average’s new owners will face their first decision on
how the 116-year-old gauge should be composed when Kraft Foods
Inc. splits itself in two later this year. Kraft’s $70 billion
market value is ranked 21th in the 30-stock gauge and will
shrink with the spinoff of its of its U.S. grocery business.  Past spinoffs have led to deletions. Altria Group Inc. was
dropped in February 2008, one month before the divestiture of
its overseas tobacco unit and almost one year after its spinoff
of Kraft. Westinghouse Electric Corp.’s split into separate
manufacturing and media companies led to its removal in 1997.  Changes in the composition of the average “are rare, and
generally occur only after corporate acquisitions or other
dramatic shifts in a component’s core business,” according to
the S&P Dow Jones Indices website. “When such an event
necessitates that one component be replaced, the entire index is
reviewed,” and “multiple component changes are often
implemented simultaneously.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in  New York  at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  