-- Apple, Paddy Power, Perdue, Netflix: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-07-31T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/apple-paddy-power-perdue-netflix-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s $2.5 billion patent-
infringement lawsuit against Samsung Electronics Co.  opened
yesterday in federal court in  California  with the selection of a
jury in the first U.S. trial to consider the global smartphone
dispute.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose , who practiced as
an  intellectual-property  litigator in Silicon Valley for eight
years, is presiding over the trial. Jurors will decide each
company’s claims that its rival infringed patents covering
designs and technology for mobile devices, with potential damage
awards reaching billions of dollars.  The case is the first U.S. jury trial of a battle being
fought on four continents for dominance of a mobile-device
market that Bloomberg Industries said was $312 billion last
year. Apple, the iPhone maker based in Cupertino, California,
just 11 miles from the courthouse, won’t benefit from any bias
from a jury drawn from Silicon Valley, said Stanford Law School
Professor  Mark Lemley .  “Just as many people in the valley work for Android
companies like Google as work for Apple,” Lemley said in an e-
mail, referring to  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system that
some Samsung products use. “I expect that a Silicon Valley jury
will be more technologically sophisticated than most, and that
may work in Samsung’s favor.”  Samsung, based in Suwon, South Korea, has countersued and
will present claims that Apple is infringing two patents
covering mobile-technology standards and three utility patents.
Samsung is demanding royalties of as much as 2.4 percent for
each device sold, according to a court filing.  Samsung Chief Executive Officer Choi Gee Sung and Apple CEO
 Tim Cook  failed to settle the San Jose case at a court-ordered
May 21 meeting in San Francisco. Previously, company officials
met in September and December and on May 4 to discuss resolving
a related dispute before the U.S. International Trade
Commission.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  Smartphone Patent Fights See U.K. IP Lawsuits Almost Triple  U.K. courts are a battleground for the global technology
patent wars as intellectual property claims almost tripled last
year, according to a report by law firm EMW Law LLP.  There were 183 new patent and registered design claims
filed in the U.K. in 2011, the highest number in more than five
years, as firms seek to maintain their advantage over
competitors in a difficult economic climate, EMW said. There
were 65 similar claims filed in 2010.  “Some technology businesses have amassed a huge war chest
of patents, which they can use to swamp the competition with
patent infringement claims,” said Mark Finn, IP law principal
at EMW. “Even if the claim doesn’t stick and is eventually
rejected by the courts, it can still keep rivals’ products off
the market for long enough to gain a competitive advantage.”  Smartphone makers including Apple Inc.,  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) ,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  HTC Corp. (2498)  have filed dozens of suits against
each other in the U.K. over the last two years as part of a
global litigation strategy in the mobile-device market that
Bloomberg Industries said was $312 billion last year. The rise
in IP litigation comes as the U.K. economy shrank the most in
three years, forcing companies to fight “for every edge they
can find,” Finn said.  Companies in patent-heavy industries look for “any way”
to maintain their advantage, Finn said.  Finn said companies rush to sue before the disputed product
establishes itself in the country, because U.K. patent courts
may take a year to reach a judgment.  “IP litigation often isn’t just about compensation for
claimants,” Finn said. “It’s a vital tool for defending
profits and market share.”  Samsung Wins Continued Stay of Order Banning Galaxy Nexus  Samsung Electronics Co.’s request for a continued stay on
an order banning the importation of its Galaxy Nexus phones was
granted by a federal appeals court.  The federal court in San Jose that’s hearing the patent
dispute between Samsung and Apple Inc., had issued a temporary
order banning importation of the phones that Apple claimed
infringed its patents. That ban had extended into 2013.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit, the
Washington-based court that hears appeals for patent suits, said
yesterday the stay remains in effect throughout the appeal of
the lower court’s order. Oral arguments in that appeal are set
for Aug. 20 in Washington.  A  jury trial  between the two companies over patents Apple
says are infringed by the Samsung Galaxy tab began yesterday in
the same court.  The case involving the Galaxy Nexus phones is Apple Inc.,
v. Samsung Electronics Co., 2012-1507, U.s. Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit. The lower court case is Apple Inc. v.
Samsung Electronics Co., 5:12-cv-00630-LHK, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Paddy Power ‘Egg-and-Spoon’ Olympics Spoof Ads Remain in Place  Billboards promoting  Paddy Power PLC (PWL) , the Dublin-based
betting and gaming group, have remained up around London despite
what organizers of the London Olympics have considered part of
an ambush marketing scheme, the U.K.’s Marketing Week  reported .  The ads, which had been placed on  JC Decaux SA (DEC)  billboards,
promoted the “Paddy Power Egg-and-Spoon Race in London,” and
the Olympics organizers had initially claimed the ads used words
barred under the London  Olympic Games  and Paralympic Games Act
of 2006, according to Marketing Week.  The text to which the committee objected was “Official
sponsor of the largest athletics event in London this year!
There you go, we said it,” the magazine reported.  The committee told Marketing Week that it raised its
concerns with the bookmaker, and, while it decided not to pursue
the matter any further at that time, would continue to monitor
Paddy Power ads.  Perdue Fails to Win Dismissal of Trademark Infringement Suit  Perdue Farms Inc.’s request to have a trademark
infringement suit dismissed was rejected by a federal court in
 Nebraska .  Tecumseh Poultry LLC , a Nebraska chicken processer, sued
Perdue in federal court in Lincoln, Nebraska, in February.
Tecumseh had objected to Perdue’s use of “Simply Smart” with
some of its chicken products.  The Nebraska company claimed this infringed the “Smart
Chicken” trademarks it had used since 1995. Perdue’s use of
“Simply Smart” confused consumers, Tecumseh said in its court
filings.  In a July 24 order, U.S. District Judge John M. Gerrard
said that while he had some reservations about the Nebraska
company’s claims, they did not “weight so strongly against
Tecumseh to mandate dismissal, nor do they show Tecumseh’s
claims to be implausible.”  The case is Tecumseh Poultry LLC v. Perdue Holdings
Inc., 4:12-cv-03032-JMG-CRZ, U.S. District Court, District of
Nebraska (Lincoln)  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Netflix, Dish’s Blockbuster Sued for Infringing Screenplay  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the world’s largest video-subscription
service, was sued for copyright infringement by a screenwriter
from Bay Point, California.  Co-defendant with Los Gatos, California-based Netflix is
 Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s Blockbuster unit, which provided videos and
video games to home users.  Tony Tiscareno, who is unrepresented by counsel, claims the
two video services were duped into distributing “Killspeed,” a
film he claims infringes his “Fastglass” screenplay written in
1996.  His screenplay, Tiscareno says, was lifted from one of
several websites screenwriters use to make copies of their work
available to those who might be interested in producing the
film. He claims that “Killspeed,” produced by Afterburner
Films Inc., is based on this stolen script.  Afterburner, which is not named as a defendant, made the
film so badly that it “received scathing reviews,” according
to court papers.  Tiscareno said that to no avail he sent a takedown request
to Blockbuster and Netflix, claiming that “Fastglass”
infringed his copyright.  He asked the court to award him damages of $1.2 million for
the alleged infringement, together with the proceeds of the
rental fees the companies received for this film.  Neither Dish nor Netflix responded immediately to e-mailed
requests for comment.  The case is Tony Tiscareno v. Netflix Inc., 3:12-cv-03841-
LB, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California ( San
Francisco ).  Floridian May Face Five-Year Prison Sentence in Copyright Case  A resident of Ocala, Florida, was convicted of criminal
copyright infringement.  Raul Zaragoza-Vaquero, 31, a Mexican national, was arrested
after selling counterfeit CDs at a flea market in Sumter County,
Florida, according to a  government statement . An undercover
investigation turned up more than 16,000 counterfeit CDs,
together with apparatuses for their reproduction, plastic cases,
printers, commercial shrink wrap and paper-cutting machines, the
government said.  The case was investigated by the U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement’s Homeland Security Investigations and the
 Recording Industry Association of America .  On July 25 the jury found him guilty on one count of
criminal infringement of a copyright for commercial advantage.
His sentencing is set for Oct. 16.  Zaragoza-Vaquero faces a sentence of as long as five years
in prison and a fine of as much as $250,000.  The case is U.S. v. Zaragoza-Vaquero, 5:12-cr-00019-CEH-
PRL, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Florida (Ocala).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 