-- Apple-Samsung Jury to Hear Arguments at Patent Trial
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-07-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/apple-samsung-jury-picked-to-decide-patent-trial.html
A federal court jury in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
patent trial against Samsung Electronics Co. is set to be the
first in the U.S. to hear lawyers’ arguments and evidence in the
global dispute over smartphone technology.  The panel selected yesterday include a man who filed for
his own technology patents, a woman who worked for a
semiconductor company, and an aspiring software engineer.  While the interests and professional backgrounds of those
jurors reflect the Silicon Valley pool from which the panel was
drawn, another juror didn’t go to college and works in
construction. A  Google Inc. (GOOG)  engineer who Apple fought to get
removed early in the selection process over the objections of
U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose ,  California , was
eliminated in the final cut.  The seven men and three women are scheduled to hear opening
arguments today in a trial that is part of a battle being fought
on four continents for dominance of a mobile-device market that
Bloomberg Industries said was $312 billion last year.  Apple, the iPhone maker based in Cupertino, California,
seeks $2.5 billion for its claims that Samsung infringed patents
covering designs and technology for mobile devices.
Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea , countersued and will
present claims that Apple is infringing two patents covering
mobile-technology standards and three utility patents. Samsung
is demanding royalties of as much as 2.4 percent for each device
sold, according to a court filing.  Sports Analogy  Yesterday, Koh thinned the pool of jury candidates with
questions screening for any bias that might prevent them being
impartial in the case.  In the 20 minutes Koh allotted lawyers to speak to
potential jurors,  Bill Price , a lawyer for Samsung, offered a
sports analogy for all potential jurors.  He asked jurors if their opinions about a referee’s call
against a favored team were ever less than objective “because
you’re leaning one way or another you see things different?” He
continued by asking if any jurors were inclined to think Asian
or Korean companies are more inclined to “cheat” compared to
another company “nearby and iconic?”  Jurors remained silent after both questions.  Google Engineer  Four jury candidates were dismissed by Koh before lawyers
weighed in with their preferences, which were discussed
privately among lawyers at their tables and at Koh’s bench. Koh
twice rejected a request by William Lee, a lawyer for Apple, to
dismiss “for cause” the Google engineer who said he owns
shares in his company.  The engineer said he started at Google before it bought
YouTube, working on user interface layouts. He said he had
worked on the company’s AdWords program, maps and a version of
the company’s Android operating system called Jelly Bean. He
said he assisted in some capacity with patents covering some of
those technologies.  “His credibility, as far as I’m concerned, I believe it
when he says he can be fair and impartial,” Koh said, noting
that the juror said his family owns many Apple products. “For
right now he’s been solid that he can be fair and impartial, so
he’s staying on,” Koh said.  The engineer was later dismissed from the jury after
lawyers for both sides conferred with each other.  The engineer who applied for his own patents told the court
he worked in the hard-drive industry. He said he’s married with
two children and that he had worked for Memorex, Digital
Equipment and Seagate, among other companies. during the seven
years it took him to get the patent approved, he was “active”
with his lawyer during the process, he said.  Tech Connections  A woman serving on the jury said she worked for National
Semiconductor Corp. and now works in retail. She said her
husband worked for  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT)   The construction worker, with two children from a previous
marriage lives in Gilroy, California, with his wife who also has
children from an earlier marriage. He said his hobbies include
working on cars and motorcycles.  One juror said he hopes to go to college to study software
development for video games. Early in the selection process he
asked Koh if his grandparents’ Apple shares disqualified him
from serving on the jury.  The judge asked if he stood to profit from the stock? The
judge said he was fit to serve after he told her the only way he
might benefit is if the shares were somehow passed on to him
through his parents.  The case is Apple Inc. v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  