-- Apple Lawyer Tells Jury Samsung Chose to Copy Apple
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-08-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/apple-lawyer-tells-jury-samsung-chose-to-copy-apple.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930)  made initial pitches to a U.S. jury in their global battle
over smartphone patents, with the iPhone maker alleging its
designs were copied and the South Korean company countering that
Apple can’t claim a “monopoly on a rectangle.”  Apple’s lawyer alleged in opening arguments yesterday at a
trial in federal court in  San Jose ,  California , that Samsung
infringed the touch-screen characteristics of the iPhone after
it was released in 2007. Samsung’s attorney downplayed the
significance of Apple’s iPhone innovations by saying other
companies had received patents for similarly minimalist designs.  “As we all know it’s easier to copy than to innovate,”
Harold McElhinny, Apple’s lawyer, told the jury.  The  jury trial  is the first U.S. in a battle being waged on
four continents for dominance in a smartphone market valued by
Bloomberg Industries at $219.1 billion. Apple and Samsung are
the world’s largest makers of the high-end handheld devices that
blend the functionality of a phone and a computer.  Each company is trying to convince jurors that its rival
infringed patents covering designs and technology for mobile
devices, with potential damages awards reaching billions of
dollars.  Business Competition  Samsung’s attorney,  Charles K. Verhoeven, said that while
the company was “inspired” by the iPhone, he said that’s a
natural part of business competition, just as each company
performs a detailed analysis whenever a rival product is
released.  “Being inspired by a good product and seeking to make even
better products is called competition,” Verhoeven said. “It’s
not copying and it’s not infringing. Everybody does it in the
commercial marketplace.”  Apple’s lawyer said the similarities between its iPhone and
iPad and Samsung’s smartphones and tablets go beyond that
accepted practice. McElhinny showed the jury a slide depicting
internal Samsung discussions about making changes to its devices
to match those of the iPhone and iPad.  He also displayed photos of Samsung’s mobile phones from
2006 with physical keyboards and squared corners, and another of
its phones from 2010 with rounded edges and a glass touch-
screen. Samsung arrived at the newer design only after Apple
founder  Steve Jobs  introduced the iPhone in 2007, the lawyer
said.  User-Interface  McElhinny outlined the history and risk that Apple took in
developing the iPhone, including developing a new user-interface
and introducing a touch-screen glass front screen. While the
device was a hit, its success wasn’t a sure thing with companies
like  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ,  Motorola Inc. (MSI)  and Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung dominating the market, the attorney said. If the debut
had been a flop, it “could have ended the company’s future,”
the attorney said.  One patent in dispute involves how the screen bounces back
when a user scrolls to the end of a Web page or picture. Samsung
adopted a similar feature for its smartphones, Apple claims.
Another patent at issue covers the use of two fingers to zoom in
on a picture or document, a feature that Cupertino, California-
based Apple alleges Samsung copied.  McElhinny said that Samsung in June 2010 introduced the
Galaxy Si9000 smartphone, the first in the Galaxy line, which he
called “a complete iPhone clone.” That led to U.S. sales of 22
million mobile phones and tablet computers which generated $2
billion in “profit that they made using our intellectual
property.”  Close Partners  In addition to being rivals, Apple and Samsung also are
close partners. Samsung supplies components to Apple for
semiconductors and high-definition screens. McElhinny said that
business relationship led Apple to confront Samsung about the
alleged infringements before filing a lawsuit.  “Apple did not sit quietly by when Samsung started
infringing Apple products,” McElhinny told jurors. “Apple met
with Samsung to point out that Samsung was acting illegally and
demand that Samsung come up with its own designs and user
interface.” That had “no positive effect,” he said.  Verhoeven disputed Apple’s claims that it’s copying,
pointing to patents from before the iPhone’s release by
companies including LG Electronics Inc. that show a rectangular
shape and a glass screen. He also said Samsung provides 20 percent
of the component technology inside the iPhone.  At the outset of his opening argument, Verhoeven showed the
jury a slide showing that before the iPhone was introduced,
Samsung made different types of mobile phones -- including some
that he said were “rectangular in shape, with rounded corners,
that had touch screens on them.” The company continues to
manufacture those same types of phones, he said.  ‘More Sophisticated’  “As the guts of these phones got more sophisticated, you
can do more things,” Verhoeven said. “The entire industry
moved this way. Is that infringement? The evidence is going to
show, no, it’s competition. It’s providing the consumer what the
consumer wants.”  He argued that Apple was inspired by  Sony Corp. (6758) , pointing
to e-mails among members of Apple’s design team discussing how
the iPhone’s original design compared to a Sony design.  Apple’s demand for $2.5 billion in damages is based on
claims Samsung copied the iPhone and iPad. Apple also wants to
make permanent a preliminary ban it won on U.S. sales of a
Samsung tablet computer, and extend the ban to Samsung
smartphones.  Samsung also is alleging in a countersuit that Apple is
infringing two patents covering mobile-technology standards and
three utility patents. Samsung says the patents related to data
transition and other technology and contends they are essential
for making any mobile phone work. The company is demanding
royalties of as much as 2.4 percent for each device sold,
according to a court filing.  ‘Neat Things’  Verhoeven said that in contrast to Apple’s design-focused
claims, Samsung’s patents are more sophisticated than “little
neat things you can do on a touch-screen.”  Apple’s first witness was Christopher Stringer, a designer
at the company for 17 years, who said he typically works with a
group of 15 or 16 designers around a kitchen table having a
“brutally honest circle of debate” until they are comfortable
with a product.  McElhinny asked Stringer about the inspiration for the
iPhone.  “We were looking for a new original and beautiful object,
something that would really wow the world,” Stringer testified.
“We wanted to create something that seemed so wonderful you
can’t imagine how you’d follow it.”  Apple designers spent “years” trying to create the “most
simple, purest manifestation of what that can be -- something
that people can love.”  One of 10 jurors in the case was granted her request to be
dismissed yesterday after telling the judge her employer
wouldn’t pay her while she was away from work. That juror, an
insurance agent, was one of the three women serving on the
panel.  The trial is scheduled to run through late August.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  