-- Marchionne’s Chrysler Stars in Fiat’s Struggle for Profit
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t ,   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-08-01T10:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/marchionne-s-chrysler-stars-in-fiat-s-struggle-for-profit.html
Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer
Sergio Marchionne can’t stop the financial bleeding in Europe,
so he’s shifting the automaker’s growth and profit focus to
Chrysler Group LLC in the U.S.  Marchionne, who has been spearheading an industrywide
effort to cut excess assembly lines in Europe, vowed to close a
second Italian factory, after shuttering one last year, unless
he finds a way to export cars to the U.S.  “We need to coordinate the efforts; otherwise somebody is
going to pay a huge price for it,” Marchionne said on a call
with analysts yesterday. “The European market is now heading
for a fifth straight year of decline; we are now seeing levels
in the Italian market which has not been since 1979,” he added,
citing “irrefutable evidence of market decay.”  For Marchionne, the potential flow of cars from Europe to
 North America  would follow the money.  Capital spending  at
Chrysler, which Marchionne also runs, will rise to $4 billion
this year from $3.1 billion in 2011, while Fiat is reducing
European investment by 500 million euros this year. Chrysler
plans to raise its full-year profit forecast after the third
quarter and doesn’t expect a slowdown in the second half.  “Marchionne’s strategy to bet on North America as Europe
stalls make sense as things stand now,” Emanuele Bosio, CEO of
Italian car-parts maker  Sogefi SpA (SO) , said in a phone interview.
“We are bullish on North America, and we don’t expect the
European market to return anytime soon to pre-crisis level.”  Sogefi plans to boost revenue from outside Europe to 50
percent in 2015 from 30 percent last year as it expands in North
America, Bosio said.  Chrysler Lifeline  Marchionne rescued Chrysler from bankruptcy in 2009, a deal
that  Renault SA (RNO)  CEO  Carlos Ghosn  passed up. The addition of the
third-largest U.S. carmaker gave Fiat an outlet lacking at  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second-largest carmaker.  The French automaker last week was downgraded to two levels
below investment grade by all three main credit rating services
as it burns through 200 million euros a month in cash. Peugeot
reported a first-half net loss of 819 million euros, compared
with a profit of 806 million euros a year earlier.  Fiat posted  net income , including minority interests, in
the period of 737 million euros. Without Chrysler, the Italian
manufacturer’s loss was 519 million euros. Operating losses in
Fiat’s home region widened to 184 million euros in the second
quarter from 170 million euros in the prior three months.  Europe Delays  “Fiat has reached a point where they are probably taking a
view that it doesn’t make an awful lot of sense to invest in
 Europe ,” said Erich Hauser, a London-based analyst with Credit
Suisse. “If you’ve got to spend money somewhere, you might as
well spend it in the U.S., where there’s a chance of making a
return.”  Marchionne, who plans to combine Fiat and  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based Chrysler to boost revenue to more than 100
billion euros by 2014, is refreshing Chrysler’s lineup while
delaying new models in Europe. Next year, Chrysler will update
the Jeep Grand Cherokee sport-utility vehicle and Ram heavy-duty
pickup and replace the Jeep Liberty SUV.  In Europe, a new version of the Grand Punto hatchback was
delayed from its planned rollout next year because the
introduction would be a “failure” as margin-sapping discounts
rise amid the auto market’s contraction, Marchionne told
reporters last month in Turin.  “Any investment we make in the Punto will never, ever
return capital, so we sit on the sideline until we find better
conditions,” Marchionne said in his conference call yesterday.  ‘One of the Best’  “It makes more sense to launch products in a growing
market,” said Sascha Gommel, a Frankfurt-based analyst with
Commerzbank. “Marchionne is one of the best car managers
around. He’s not the classic car guy, but on the financial and
strategic side, he’s really one of the best.”  In turning around Fiat, Marchionne hasn’t been afraid to
shake things up.  Fiat Industrial SpA (FI)  , the truck and tractor
manufacturer that carmaker Fiat spun off in 2011, plans to move
its primary listing to  New York  from Milan after a reverse
merger with its  CNH Global NV (CNH)  unit in a blow to  Italy .  Fiat Industrial, which controls the tractor maker through
an 88 percent stake, proposed to CNH’s board the creation of a
new company in a share exchange. CNH is evaluating the proposal.
Marchionne is Fiat Industrial’s chairman.  Fiat Industrial today reported that second-quarter  trading
profit  rose 19 percent to 631 million euros as a sales decline
at the Iveco truck unit in Europe was offset by a revenue
increase at CNH in North America.  Union Conflict  Marchionne has also taken on Italian unions, spurring a
wave of protests as he sought concessions and closed a plant in
Sicily. Unions fear that Fiat’s cuts in Europe are permanently
damaging the business.  Marchionne said yesterday that he will make a decision
about Fiat’s European plans, including further plant closings,
in October, after seeing quarterly earnings.  “The CEO failed with his strategy,” Giorgio Airaudo, a
leader of the Fiom CGIL metalworkers’ union, said in a phone
interview. “If you don’t invest in new products in Europe you
keep down debt levels and boost liquidity, but you lose market
share that you won’t get back when the crisis ends.”  Fiat’s  European sales  dropped 17 percent in the first half
to 456,191 vehicles as the carmaker’s Italian home market
plunged 20 percent, according to data from industry group ACEA.
Industrywide sales across the region declined 6.3 percent,
causing market share to drop to 6.6 percent from 7.4 percent.  Chrysler’s U.S. market share rose 1.4 percentage points
from a year earlier to 11.5 percent after the company increased
deliveries 30 percent in the first half, doubling the industry’s
15 percent gain, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  After failing with earlier efforts to partner with Peugeot
and  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Opel, Marchionne was “left having to
do something with Chrysler -- whether that was design or whether
that was luck,” said Credit Suisse’s Hauser. “Of all those
options, it was the best one to go for.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  