-- Harpo’s Wig, Mona Lisa’s Mustache, Black Nudes, Hamburger
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-07-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/harpo-s-wig-mona-lisa-s-mustache-black-nudes-hamburger.html
In “Duck Soup,”  Groucho Marx  sang:
“If any form of pleasure is exhibited,/ Report to me and it will
be prohibited.”  The quote is written on a wall by the entrance of  303
Gallery  in  Manhattan ’s Chelsea district and sets the mood for
“Marxism,” a summer exhibition inspired by the Marx Brothers.  The show, curated by Jacob and Jens Hoffmann, combines
posters, photographs, film and radio with works by Marcel Duchamp and four contemporary artists.  Harpo’s fright wig sits on a pedestal under glass, looking
surprisingly diminutive. Another vitrine displays the
prankster’s trumpet and knives.  In one corner, a makeshift, five-seat movie theater screens
five Marx Brothers films all day long. In another, a 2010
installation by Rodney Graham pairs a film projector with an
oversize cartridge that fills up with tape as the 16mm footage
of a sink it shows on the wall fills up with foam.  In keeping with the Marx Brothers’ mischievous spirit, the
curators hung Duchamp’s famous 1919 photo collage featuring the
mustached Mona Lisa postcard upside-down -- a gesture Harpo
would have undoubtedly appreciated.  The Marx Brothers paraphernalia isn’t for sale; prices for
contemporary works range from $35,000 to $500,000. “Marxism”
runs through Aug. 3 at 547 W. 21st St. Information: +1-212-255-
1121;  http://www.303gallery.com .  Artnet Artists  Walk across the street to  Haunch of Venison  where Walter Robinson, an artist and until recently editor-in-chief of Artnet
online magazine, organized a group show called “Claxons.”  “I picked three of my friends who I thought needed some
attention,” Robinson said in a telephone interview; he also has
works in the show. “You’ve got to make some noise to make
things happen.”  All three artists have written for Artnet, which was closed
last month after 16 years.  Robert Goldman’s abstract paintings bring to mind star
constellations, fireworks -- or white powder scattered over
sleek surfaces.  Robinson’s four figurative paintings seduce whether their
subject is a hamburger or a barely clad sex kitten. In “Dallas
BBQ,” the burger looks sizzling, its cheese melted just so and
tomatoes deliriously red.  The floral and geometric patterns of Elisabeth Kley’s
fabulously colorful ceramic pots are echoed in her large
watercolors and ink drawings hanging on the walls.  John Drury works with material as fragile as glass and as
sturdy as steel. The two come together in his 1995 piece
“Bucket o’Taters (for Gramps)” which includes an old steel
pail filled with 44 blown-glass potatoes.  Prices range from $950 to $18,000. “Claxons” runs through
Aug. 17 at 550 W. 21st St. Information: +1-212-259-0000;
 http://haunchofvenison.com .  Black Odalisque  A block north, at  Yancey Richardson Gallery , I lingered in
front of Zanele Muholi’s photograph of a black person in a
revealing red bathing suit.  Its reclining pose, come-hither look and perfect hairdo
made me think it was a woman. The overly muscular physique and
flat chest suggested otherwise.  Ambiguity is a common thread in “Tete-a-Tete,” a group
show curated by artist Mickalene Thomas. The 11 artists are
black; the prevailing medium is photography. Most explore and
shatter the perceptions and stereotypes surrounding the black
body.  Clifford Owens, sporting nothing but a Mohawk haircut, is
stretched out on a bed of rumpled white sheets, like a male
odalisque.  Xaviera Simmons’s 2008 “Untitled (Pink)” depicts a scene
in the woods: A black woman in a pink dress charges a mound of
dirt with a wooden spear -- like a bare-chested warrior
princess.  Prices range from $2,800 to $21,000. The show runs through
Aug. 24 at 535 W. 22nd St. Information: +1-646-230-9610;
 http://www.yanceyrichardson.com .  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on dining and  James
Pressley  on business books.  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 