-- Harvard’s Walsh, Who Led Baseball Team for 17 Years, Dies
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-31T19:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/harvard-s-walsh-who-led-baseball-team-for-17-years-dies-at-58.html
Harvard University baseball coach
 Joe Walsh , who guided the Crimson to five Ivy League
championships over his 17 seasons at the school, died at his
home in Chester,  New Hampshire . He was 58.  The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based university said in a
 statement  that Walsh passed away “suddenly.” It didn’t
disclose a cause of death. Walsh is survived by his wife,
Sandra, and the couple’s four daughters.  “He was full of personality and full of life,” said
Brendan Byrne, who was the captain of Harvard’s baseball team in
2007 and now works in institutional sales at  Vertical Research
Partners LLC  in  Manhattan . “He had two great passions and they
were his family and baseball.”  Walsh had a 569-564-3 record in 32 years as a college
coach, including a 347-388-2 mark at Harvard.  “This is a tragic day for everyone associated with Harvard
athletics, Massachusetts baseball and the larger baseball
community,” Harvard Director of Athletics Bob Scalise said in a
statement on the school’s website.  In 1996, Walsh became Harvard’s first full-time baseball
coach and the next season guided the Crimson to a 34-16 record
and their first  Ivy League  title since 1985. The following
season, he led the Crimson to a school-record 36-12 record and
No. 24 national ranking. Those successes led Walsh to be named
the Northeast Region Division I Coach of the Year by the
American Baseball Coaches Association in 1997 and 1998.  Competitive, Scrappy  “His teams reflected his attitude; his enthusiasm,
competitiveness and scrappiness,” Byrne, who played second base
for the 2005 team that won the Ivy League title, said in a
telephone interview. “He was a tremendous coach and an even
better person. When you think of the program at Harvard and
success it’s had, it’s all due to him.”  This past season, Harvard went 12-30, including an 8-12
record in the Ivy League, and had three players drafted by Major
League Baseball teams.  Walsh attended high school in Boston’s West Roxbury
neighborhood and played baseball in college at  Suffolk
University  in Boston. His first head coaching job came at
Suffolk in 1980-81 and he spent 15 years at the school, where he
was inducted into its Athletic Hall of Fame in 2009.  When Walsh came to Harvard in 1996, he became its first
endowed baseball coach. Joseph J. O’Donnell, a former Harvard
baseball and football letter-winner, established a $2.5 million
endowment fund that supports the head baseball coach.  New England Baseball   Walsh had also been involved in baseball’s Cape Cod League
since 1988, when he was coach of the Brewster Whitecaps, and
also had stints with the Yarmouth-Dennis Red Sox and Wareham
Gatemen. He regularly threw batting practice at Fenway Park --
home to Major League Baseball’s  Boston  Red Sox -- and ran
baseball camps and clinics throughout  New England .  Byrne, 28, said he was “shocked” by the news of Walsh’s
passing, having spoken with him by phone last week. Byrne said
they talked about the coach’s family, the prospects for next
season’s Harvard team and about sending kids from inner city
Boston to the coach’s baseball camp at Harvard.  “He was always trying to help kids play baseball,” Byrne
recalled. “He was a great ambassador for Harvard and for
baseball. He loved the game and would do anything he could to
get people involved in it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  