-- AsiaInfo Falls Amid Concern Buyout Proposal May Not Be Completed
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-07-31T17:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/asiainfo-falls-amid-concern-buyout-proposal-may-not-be-completed.html
AsiaInfo-Linkage Inc. (ASIA) , which sells
telecommunications software to China’s biggest wireless
carriers, fell to an eight-week low in  New York  amid concern
that a proposal to take the company private may not be executed.  The Beijing-based company tumbled 4.8 percent to $9.91 at
1:47 p.m. in New York, the lowest since June 5. The stock has
advanced 28 percent this year after falling 53 percent in 2011.  AsiaInfo, in a statement, said that while the company
continues to consider buyout proposals “there can be no
assurance that any definitive offer will ultimately be made,
that any agreement will be executed, or that any transaction
will be approved or consummated.” AsiaInfo received a buyout
offer in January from a subsidiary of Citic Capital China
Partners II, a private-equity fund owned by  China Citic Bank
Corp. (998) , a unit of the country’s biggest state-owned investment
company.  “It’s been a while since they announced that offer, so
there’s uncertainty in the buyout story that’s created weakness
on the stock,” Kun Tao, an analyst at  Roth Capital Partners ,
said in an interview from  Newport Beach , California. “If the
buyout cannot go through, the shares would plunge.”  Tao has a buy rating on AsiaInfo, and estimates a buyout
price of $14 to $15 per share. He said the process may take
“another two to three months.”  AsiaInfo  hired  Goldman Sachs (Asia) LLC in February to
consider the Citic Capital proposal and other potential offers.  Jimmy Xia, AsiaInfo’s investor relations director, didn’t
immediately return a phone call and e-mailed request made after
hours for comment. Phone messages left at the company’s office
in  Santa Clara , California, were also not immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 Tbarak@bloomberg.net  