-- U.S Stock Futures Gain; Spain, Italy Two-Year Notes Fall
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d
-- 2012-08-07T12:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/asian-stocks-gain-fourth-day-on-policy-speculation-wheat-drops.html
Stocks (SXXP)  rose, sending the benchmark
European gauge to a four-month high, and commodities gained as
the yen weakened.  Standard Chartered (STAN)  Plc tumbled the most since
at least 1988 after a U.S. regulator said the lender may face a
suspension of business activities.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.3 percent at 8:10 a.m.
in New York, after falling 0.3 percent. Standard & Poor’s 500
Index futures advanced 0.4 percent.  Standard Chartered  slumped
24 percent. The yen depreciated against all 16 of its major
counterparts and the  Dollar Index  lost 0.2 percent. Germany’s
10-year bund yield rose six basis points. Copper climbed 1.1
percent and soybeans rose 0.9 percent.  Reports today showed German factory orders declined more
than twice as much as economists forecast in June as sales to
euro-area countries slumped, and Italy’s economy contracted for
a fourth straight quarter in the three months through June.
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  backed a bond-buying plan
announced last week by the European Central Bank, a spokesman
said yesterday.  “The current thoughts are that the European situation is
finally coming to a head,” said  Richard Hunter , head of
equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers in London. Weak
data from Europe will “prove positive in increasing the
likelihood of definite action from the European authorities.”  Three shares rose for every two that declined in the Stoxx
600, with basic-resource and energy producers leading gains.
Standard Chartered slid for a second day after a New York
regulator said it may stop the bank from doing business in the
state because it handled transactions for Iranian institutions
that are subject to U.S. sanctions.  Elan Drops  Elan Corp. sank 13 percent to its lowest price this year.
The Irish drugmaker wrote down to zero the value of its venture
with Johnson & Johnson to develop an Alzheimer’s treatment.  Soybeans gained after the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
said yesterday that about 39 percent of the U.S. crop was rated
poor to very poor, up from 37 percent a week earlier. Oil added
0.3 percent to $92.48 a barrel in New York.  The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note  rose  three
basis points to 1.60 percent before the government sells $32
billion of three-year notes, the first of three auctions this
week totaling $72 billion.  Spain’s 10-year yield dropped three basis points while its
two-year rate climbed 12 basis points. The yield on Italy’s 10-
year bond fell 10 basis points, and similar-maturity Portuguese
debt yields declined 35 basis points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  