-- Asian Millionaires Firing Banks Take Charge of Own Wealth
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-08-01T09:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/asian-millionaires-firing-bankers-take-control-of-wealth.html
Clinton Ang, the grandson of a gunny-
sack seller who emigrated last century from  China  to Singapore,
oversees a fortune valued at almost $80 million for himself and
three siblings.  That makes him a target for wealth managers in Singapore,
the private-banking capital of  Asia . Yet the 39-year-old
managing director of Hock Tong Bee Pte, which evolved from his
grandfather’s sacks and foodstuff supplier into a purveyor of
$6,000 Grand Cru wines, has already fired two bankers and
prefers mostly to manage the money himself.  “I am very open to private banks for their propositions,
but I want them to be relevant,” said Ang, who’s cut the amount
of his family’s money managed by professionals to less than 5
percent from 25 percent three years ago. “We felt we could do
better ourselves.”  Disillusionment with investment products and returns has
made Asian millionaires such as Ang take greater control of
their wealth than rich Europeans. Managers at  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) , Citigroup Inc. and other banks in Asia have full
discretion over clients’ portfolios for just 4 percent of assets
under management, according to a  June report  from  Boston
Consulting Group . That’s down from 7 percent in 2006. In Europe,
it’s 23 percent, rising from 18 percent six years ago.  “Asia’s wealthy lost a lot of trust in their private banks
and private bankers during the 2008 financial crisis,” said
Peter Damisch, a Zurich-based BCG partner and managing director
who co-authored the report.  Less Profitable  For the top  wealth-management  firms that have made big bets
on expanding in Asia, the move by millionaires to control their
own assets is translating to lower profits even as the pool
managed by professionals continues to grow.  HSBC Holdings Plc , whose private bank had 25 percent more
assets in Asia-Pacific region in 2011 than four years earlier,
earned less last year than in 2007, according to its annual
reports. Net operating income for the private bank’s local
operations in 2007 was $748 million on $26.7 billion in assets.
In 2011, the same measure fell to $712 million even as assets
managed rose to $33.5 billion.  That means, excluding expenses, the private bank earned
$2.10 for every $100 of assets it managed in the Asia-Pacific
region last year, a 25 percent decline from 2007. That year was
historic for market performance and turnover, said  Gareth Hewett , an HSBC spokesman in  Hong Kong , adding that he didn’t
know whether Asia’s shift away from private banking was to blame
for lower earnings.  Cultural Differences  “The culture of Asia is such that clients are far more
hands-on,” said Akbar Shah, head of Southeast Asia and
 Australia  for Citigroup’s private-banking unit who cites the
region’s accumulation of wealth as a reason behind the desire
for control.  “Many of them have made a lot of money in the real estate
markets in Asia, and these are hands-on markets,” Shah said.
“Nobody can tell you -- you need a feel for it.”  Asian millionaires, a large proportion of whom have made
their fortunes rather than inherited wealth, demand high
returns, according to Enrico Mattoli, who heads investment
products and services for the richest clients of  UBS (UBSN)  AG’s Asia-
Pacific wealth-management unit.  Affluent Asians have an “aggressive” growth target of an
annual nominal rate of 12 percent for the next 10 years,
 Standard Chartered  Plc and Scorpio Partnership said in  a report 
in March after surveying more than 2,700 high-net-worth Asians
in nine markets including China,  India , Singapore and Hong Kong.
The report didn’t provide a comparative number for Europeans.  High Returns  In the run-up to the global financial crisis of 2008,
private bankers sold Asian clients products that earned high
fees and commissions, such as derivatives with returns that
soared when stock prices rose and plunged lower than the market
when prices fell, said Liew Nam Soon, a Singapore-based partner
at Ernst & Young LLP.  Historic annual returns to global clients at  Citigroup (C) ’s
private bank have averaged about 8 percent to 12 percent since
the mid-1980s after adjusting for inflation, Shah said. The New
York-based bank and rivals UBS and Credit Suisse, both based in
Zurich, don’t report private-banking revenue by geography. The
three, along with HSBC, are the top four private banks in the
region by assets managed, according to Private Banker
International, a publication which tracks the industry.  Slumping Profits  Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest lender and among the
top 10 private bankers in Asia, reported yesterday that pretax
profit at its asset and wealth management division slumped 85
percent to 35 million euros ($43 million) in the second quarter.
UBS’s earnings from wealth management outside the Americas fell
25 percent from a year earlier to 502 million Swiss francs ($515
million) in the second quarter as lower client activity hurt the
bank’s margins, it said yesterday.  UBS reported that assets managed in the Asia-Pacific region
since the end of 2008 grew 27 percent to 165 billion francs last
year. Mattoli declined to answer questions about the impact of
Asian millionaires pulling back their wealth on operations,
revenue or profitability.  Asians’ portfolios are “heavily skewed” toward Asian
markets where gains have outpaced the rest of the world,
according to a February note from Shayne Nelson, chief executive
officer of Standard Chartered’s private bank. In the 10 years
through the end of June, the  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  had
average annual gains of 20 percent, compared with 26 percent for
the  Jakarta Composite Index. (JCI)  The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  climbed less
than 6 percent annually in the same period.  Negotiating Fees  Banks’ profitability has declined partly because wealthy
Asian clients negotiate lower fees to managers. Private bankers
are under pressure to reduce them because they only provide
advice to multiple customers, rather than bearing sole
responsibility for the clients’ portfolios, said Charles Bok,
CEO of the Singapore unit of Reyl & Cie SA, a Swiss wealth
manager with 5.5 billion francs under management.  Profitability has also fallen due to a drop in commissions
on equity and bond trading, which have shrunk amid the global
rout in  capital markets .  “At the moment, people are not very active in the markets
and because of that, trading revenues are down,” said Boston
Consulting Group’s Damisch.  His firm estimates that return on assets for private banks
in Asia was 65 basis points last year compared with 73 basis
points for European institutions. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Interest Disparity  “There is a disparity between banks’ income requirements
and clients’ interest,” said Easaw Thomas, another Asian
millionaire who manages most of his own wealth and declined to
disclose the value of his portfolio.  Thomas, an anesthesiologist who made most of his money in
real estate without the help of advisers, drives a S$700,000
($562,000) Porsche 911 Turbo, owns a wine collection that boasts
rare Burgundies, and lives in a 1939 Art Deco house in one of
Singapore’s most-expensive neighborhoods off Bukit Timah Road.  “My general impression, after many rounds of disappointing
performance, is that private bankers cannot be your lifeline,”
said the 67-year-old Indian-origin Singaporean, who has used
private banks since the 1980s.  Thomas, the son of a priest in the  Mar Thoma Syrian Church
of Malabar  who immigrated to Singapore when Thomas was a child,
said he “grew up with little money in the house.” After making
a fortune buying and selling property, he now keeps less than 10
percent of his money with wealth managers, he said, and doesn’t
give bankers full discretion.  ‘Like Secretaries’  “They are essentially like secretaries who help facilitate
a trade that you may want to make,” Thomas said. “I want
complete control.”  His house, surrounded by trees from his native Kerala in
landscaping that won him an award from Singapore’s  National
Parks Board , was purchased for S$2.45 million in 1990 and is
currently valued at about S$35 million, Thomas said. He bought
his first house in 1976 for S$115,000 and sold it four years
later for four times the cost.  High-net-worth individuals in Asia had the largest portion
of their investable assets tied to property, at 31 percent,
according to a March  report  from Citigroup’s private bank and
Knight Frank LLP. In Europe and Russia, the proportion was 16
percent.  Property Affinity  Ang, the wine trader by day, also made his first $1 million
from property. When he was studying at  Arizona  State University
in the early 1990s, he purchased 50 apartments of about 950
square feet each at $17,500 a unit in the U.S. with money
borrowed from his father. He sold the units for $90,000 apiece
in 2000, he said.  In 2009-2010, when the  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAPJ)  excluding
 Japan  gained 94 percent, Ang said private banks earned him 20
percent. Investments he made for his family’s wealth yielded 200
percent, he said. An investment in a life-insurance policy in
2008 bought him $10 million of coverage. A comparable policy
purchased today would provide $7 million, he said.  “I bought it before any private banker could tell me,” he
said, adding that these days every private banker extols the
product to him “five times over.”  Young Millionaires  Like Ang, most Asian millionaires are younger than their
European counterparts and in the wealth-generating stages of
their life, said Simon Grose-Hodge, head of investment advisory
in South Asia at Vaduz-based LGT Group, Liechtenstein’s largest
bank.  More than 40 percent of Asian millionaires are 45 or
younger, according to a report from Capgemini SA and Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit last year. In Europe, less
than 20 percent of the millionaires belonged to that age group.  Standard Chartered said in the February note that 63
percent of private banking clients are business owners, “mostly
first- or second-generation,” and that the proportion was
greater than in Europe.  Asian millionaires who run their own business tend to plow
back most of their gains into expansion and seek higher returns
from reinvesting, Grose-Hodge said. An Asian entrepreneur
typically has 60 percent of his net worth in his business, said
Citigroup’s Shah. European millionaires primarily have inherited
wealth, said Dominique Joye, CEO of the Singapore unit of LGT.  Shorter Period  Asia-Pacific millionaires outnumbered those in  North
America  for the first time last year, according to a June report
by Capgemini and RBC Wealth Management. The number of people
with at least $1 million in investable assets in the region
climbed 1.6 percent in 2011 to 3.37 million, while high-net-
worth individuals in North America dropped by 1.1 percent to
3.35 million, they said.  Asia’s new millionaires also have a shorter time frame for
gauging returns generated by their bankers than wealthy European
families, which have watched their net worth rise and fall over
generations, Citigroup’s Shah said.  “In Europe, the tradition has been to give the private
banker discretion,” he said. “The longer you give a portfolio,
the better the returns.”  Ang said he asks bankers whether they themselves have
invested in the products they recommend.  “They need to be joint stakeholders,” he said.
“Otherwise it’ll be like selling me a vitamin that you don’t
take yourself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  