-- ATF Officials Face Blame in ‘Fast and Furious’ Case, Report Says
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-07-31T11:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/atf-officials-face-blame-in-fast-and-furious-case-report-says.html
Five officials from the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives have been singled out
by congressional investigators for the failures of a U.S. law
enforcement gun operation, according to a draft congressional
report.  In the first of a three-part series of reports, Republican
congressional investigators placed the blame on the ATF agents
for failures in Fast and Furious, a law enforcement operation
that allowed illegal gun purchases in the U.S. in an effort to
link the weapons to Mexican drug cartels. Two of about 2,000
guns that ATF allowed to be carried away were found at the scene
of the December 2010 murder of U.S. Border Patrol agent Brian
Terry in  Arizona .  “From the outset, the case was marred by missteps, poor
judgments, and an inherently reckless strategy,” the 211-page
report said.  The report, drafted jointly by the staffs of Representative
 Darrell Issa , a California Republican, and Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, is the latest step in a
congressional investigation that led to the House for the first
time holding a Cabinet member in contempt of Congress. Attorney
General Eric Holder was cited in June for failing to turn over
documents related to the Fast and Furious operation.  The second and third reports from the congressional
investigators will focus on the Justice Department’s role in the
operation, including what the Republican report calls “the
devastating failure of supervision and leadership by officials
at Justice Department headquarters, principally within the
Office of the Deputy Attorney General, and within the Criminal
Division.”  ‘Political Theater’  In a statement after the the June contempt vote, White
House spokesman  Dan Pfeiffer  said  House Republicans  “pushed for
political theater rather than legitimate congressional
oversight.” Separately, Holder called the House’s contempt
citation “the regrettable culmination of what became a
misguided and politically motivated investigation during an
election year.”  The first report focuses on the failures of ATF officials
in Washington and Arizona, where the operation was run in 2009
and 2010. Each of the officials named -- including Kenneth Melson, the ATF’s acting director during the operation, and
William Newell, special agent in charge of the Phoenix Field
Division -- have since been reassigned.  Red Flags  Issues identified in the report include ignoring red flags
raised by other ATF officials, missing opportunities to end the
operation in its early stages in order to hold out for a bigger
case and failures from senior leadership to supervise the
operation, according to the report.  The report is the result of an 18-month investigation that
has included two prior interim reports, interviews with 24
officials, reviews of thousands of documents and four full
committee hearings, the report said.  “This report is not intended to imply in any way that the
mistakes and responsibility for Operation Fast and Furious are
limited to ATF and other federal officials who were based in
Arizona,” the draft report said, referring to its upcoming
reports on the  Justice Department .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  