-- Aussie Trades Near Four-Month High Before Fed Decision
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-08-01T06:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/aussie-dollar-near-4-month-high-before-fed-decision.html
Australia ’s dollar traded 0.4 percent
from a four-month high against its U.S. counterpart as demand
for riskier assets increased on speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will signal additional stimulus measures when it concludes its
meeting today.  The so-called Aussie erased earlier losses of as much as
0.4 percent versus the greenback. The  New Zealand dollar 
advanced on prospects the Fed will implement a further round of
quantitative easing, or QE, which would debase the U.S.
currency. Demand for the South Pacific nations’ currencies was
tempered after reports today indicated a slowdown in
manufacturing in China, Australia’s biggest trading partner and
New Zealand’s second-largest export destination.  “If the Fed goes ahead with QE, you would certainly expect
the Aussie to be among the larger beneficiaries,” said  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in
Sydney. “The Aussie is finding support from a very broad range
of buyers.”  The Australian dollar was at $1.0503 as of 4:17 p.m. in
Sydney, unchanged from yesterday, when it climbed as high as
$1.0538, the strongest level since March 27. It fell to as low
as $1.0464 earlier today. The Aussie was little changed at 82.09
yen. New Zealand’s currency, known as the kiwi, bought 81.17
U.S. cents, 0.4 percent above yesterday’s close. It rose 0.4
percent to 63.44 yen after falling 0.6 percent in the previous
two days.  Members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  will end their
meeting today. While they refrained from introducing a third
round of asset purchases at their June session, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated last month that it’s an option.  September Meeting  Policy makers will probably wait until their meeting in
September to start another round of purchases, according to the
median estimates of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares lost 0.4 percent.  Australia’s 10-year government bond yield climbed one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.12 percent. New Zealand’s
two-year  swap rate , a fixed payment made to receive floating
rates, rose three basis points to 2.79 percent.  The Aussie earlier declined as reports of weakening
domestic manufacturing were compounded with data that showed a
similar situation in China.  “The trend that most of the market has been concerned
about, which is a moderation or significant slowdown in China’s
growth momentum, seems to be still in place,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a strategist at Scotiabank in  Hong Kong , a unit of  Bank
of Nova Scotia. (BNS)  “On the margin, today’s Chinese data is not
going to be supportive of the Aussie and kiwi.”  Manufacturing Slump  China’s manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell to
50.1 in July from 50.2 the previous month, according to a report
today by the Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics and the
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing. The figure is the
lowest since November and compares with analysts estimates for
an advance to 50.5.  The final reading for a separate purchasing managers’ index
released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed the
gauge rose to 49.3 last month compared with 48.2 in June.  Australia’s manufacturing index slumped 6.9 points to 40.3,
the weakest reading since June 2009 and fifth decrease in six
months, according to a survey by the Australian Industry Group
and PricewaterhouseCoopers released today.  For the three indexes, a reading below 50 indicates a
contraction and above, expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  