-- Baidu-Owned Travel Site Doubles Sales as Chinese Seek Deals
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-08-01T10:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/baidu-owned-travel-site-doubles-revenue-as-chinese-seek-deals.html
Qunar.com Inc., a Chinese online
travel company part-owned by  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , said first-half revenue
doubled as consumers used its website to search for more deals
on tickets and hotels, generating higher advertising sales.  Collaboration with Baidu aided growth in user traffic at
Qunar, Chief Executive Officer CC Zhuang said in a phone
interview yesterday. Sales and usage of Qunar’s website doubled
in the first half, Zhuang said, declining to provide figures.  Qunar’s business is weathering the economic slowdown in
 China  and increased competition from online travel rivals
including  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) , Zhuang said. Similar to
the U.S. website operator Kayak Software Corp., Qunar operates a
travel search-engine for consumers and sells paid web-links to
customers including airlines and hotels.  “This is one of the best years we’ve had,” Zhuang said.
“Last year we more than doubled, it’s likely we will continue
this very strong growth this year,” he said, referring to
revenue. He declined to provide a forecast for full-year sales.  Baidu, China’s biggest search-engine company, last year
paid $306 million to acquire a majority stake in Qunar for its
biggest acquisition. Qunar, founded in 2005, means “Where do
you want to go?” in Chinese.  Ctrip, based in  Shanghai , last week said second-quarter
profit fell 55 percent to 120 million  yuan  ($19 million), after
spending on product development increased. Ctrip started
“intensified marketing campaigns” to attract new users, the
company said at the time.  “So far we’ve seen no impact,” Zhuang said, when asked
about the effect of the Ctrip campaign on Qunar’s business.  Baidu fell 0.6 percent to $120.52 in  New York  trading
yesterday, while Ctrip dropped 1 percent to $12.48.  Slower economic growth in China may make consumers more
inclined to search for travel deals on online sites such as
Qunar, according to Ben Cavender, associate principal at China
Market Research Group in Shanghai.  “People are definitely going to be more cost-conscious,”
Cavender said. “People are becoming more comfortable about
doing online bookings, and I think we’ll see Qunar and other
sources of tickets and hotels start to do really well.”  China’s economy  grew 7.6 percent in the second quarter from
a year earlier, the slowest expansion in three years.  Passengers flying on domestic airlines in China may
increase 54 percent to 450 million by 2015, from 292 million
last year, according to a projection by China Market Research
Group.  Following the investment from Baidu, Qunar accelerated the
rollout of a free software tool to travel service providers, to
allow them to market and sell their products to Qunar users,
Zhuang said. The proprietary technology has helped improve
service to Qunar users, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  