-- Baseball Mints Heroes From World War II to Hippie Era: Books
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 2012-07-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/baseball-mints-heroes-from-world-war-ii-to-hippie-era-books.html
Hardly anyone remembers 1942 for
baseball. In the U.S., it was the first year of World War II, a
sad and sober time when the nation began to battle back from
 Pearl Harbor .  Baseball commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis asked
 Franklin Roosevelt  whether baseball should go on at all, and the
president rendered a famous and fateful judgment: “It would be
best for the country to keep baseball going.”  So play they did --  Ted Williams ,  Joe DiMaggio , Johnny
Mize, Phil Rizzuto, Stan Musial -- amid “dim outs,” fear of
German submarine attacks on the East Coast and ominous reports
of battles far away.  In “ Season of ’42 ” (Skyhorse, $24.95), veteran
sportswriter Jack Cavanaugh sketches a time when  Connie Mack 
managed, blacks weren’t permitted in the majors, stars (Cookie
Lavagetto and  Hank Greenberg , among others) migrated to the
service, and games were scheduled at twilight to avoid bans on
night games and still draw defense workers after their daytime
shifts. The most important victory was at Midway, not Fenway.  Attendance that year fell but, then again, Americans were
restricted to three gallons of gasoline a week. Still, what
emerged from that year was a splendid season from Williams, a
remarkable St. Louis Cardinals club that beat the  New York
Yankees  in the  World Series , and a grace note in a doleful time
of war and remembrance.  Lefty Gomez  One of those 1942 Yankees was Lefty Gomez, the much-
underestimated and mostly forgotten pitcher who once roomed with
DiMaggio, terrified batters with a wicked fastball, was awarded
the win in the first All Star Game and four times finished the
season with 20 wins.  The Vernon Gomez story was unearthed from the mists of
major-league memory by his daughter, Vernona Gomez, in
conjunction with Lawrence Goldstone in a book called, simply,
“ Lefty ” (Ballantine, $28). It’s a good story, and a
surprisingly insightful one.  Lefty was the guy who said it was more important to be
lucky than to be good. As a Yankee he was known as a
wisecracker; he also trafficked in wisdom.  His journey took him from sandlot ball to the major
leagues, and from hayseed to cosmopolite, with stops in Class D
baseball played by rusticated teenagers in a league with teams
in Pocatello and Idaho Falls.  His teammates called him El Goofo but as a young man he was
a student of the game and its nuances -- though he wasn’t shrewd
enough to ignore a quack doctor favored by the Yankees who
counseled him that the way to strengthen himself was to have his
teeth yanked. Maybe not his best move.  Fame Faded  Even so, Gomez flourished on the mound, becoming the first
pitcher to appear on the cover of Time magazine. His fame faded
slowly but inexorably and today hardly anyone knows his name.
Pity.  No one who reads “ One Shot at Forever ” (Hyperion, $24.99)
by Chris Ballard will soon forget it. You know you’re onto
something special with the first sentence: “Out in the corn
country of central  Illinois  the clouds stretch forever, thick
and soft, as if painted onto the sky of an old-time movie set.”  This is the story of Lynn Sweet -- a bit of a hippie,
against the war in  Vietnam , inclined to smoke a little pot, not
particularly attendant to cutting his hair -- who in 1966 was
recruited to teach English in a farm town, the kind with a feed
store, a poker game presided over by the high-school principal
and, inevitably, the need to find a coach for the baseball team.  So before long Sweet found himself at the helm of the
Ironmen. This was not exactly inheriting a diamond dynasty.
Troubles abounded: There was a disqualification in the playoffs.
A coup against the coach. And a player fell off a grain elevator
during a prank.  State Finals  But the coach and his boys rode the creaking bus they
called the Yellow Submarine all the way, or almost. Sweet
instilled in the players a love of the game, and just enough
fundamentals, to let them beat teams with high schools bigger
than the entire population of their town. They reached the state
finals in 1971, the smallest school ever to do so.  It was a beautiful moment in the lives of a town and a
team, and it almost -- almost -- doesn’t matter that the Ironmen
lost in the finals. Something important had been won and, thanks
to this book, something important has been preserved forever.  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James Pressley  on business books
and  Richard Vines  on dining.  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 