-- Batista Bolsters LLX Shares With Buyback Plan: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-07-31T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/batista-bolsters-llx-shares-with-buyback-plan-corporate-brazil.html
Billionaire  Eike Batista ,  Brazil ’s
richest person, is bolstering investor confidence in his empire
of energy and commodities companies by offering to buy back all
outstanding shares of ports developer  LLX Logistica SA. (LLXL3)   Batista will pay as much as 618.7 million reais ($303.1
million) to delist Rio de Janeiro-based LLX after the company’s
stock plunged to a three-year low last month, according to a
regulatory filing yesterday. The per-share offer of 3.13 reais
represents a 9.8 percent premium over the previous session’s
closing price.  The proposal is a reversal for Batista, who took public six
energy, commodities and logistics startups since 2006. Batista,
who as recently as March said he planned to issue shares in two
more units, saw his personal fortune fall by $1.2 billion this
year after his  oil company , OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA,
reduced output and reserve estimates.  “It is better now for Eike to put his money where his
mouth is, as credibility has dropped,” said Laurence Balter,
who oversees $100 million for Fox Island, Washington-based
Oracle Investment Research, including OGX shares. “The market
is very irrational right now, and this is a good price for a
very valuable and important port for Brazil,” he said by e-
mail.  Wiped-Out Wealth  Shares of Batista’s companies tumbled in June after OGX cut
production targets at its first two  oil wells  by as much as 75
percent. The drop dragged down Batista’s mining, logistics and
shipbuilding companies on concern the enterprises, some of which
rely on OGX for revenue, will scale back targets as well.  Batista, 55, is worth $21.3 billion, making him the world’s
22nd richest person, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index  daily ranking. The billionaire’s wealth peaked at $34.5
billion on March 27.  LLX, which is building the Acu industrial port complex in
Rio de Janeiro state,  gained  3.9 percent after yesterday’s
announcement to 2.96 reais in  Sao Paulo , the highest since May
14. Before today, the stock lost 32 percent in the past 12
months, more than the 2.7 percent decline for the Brazilian
benchmark Bovespa  index .  Batista’s offer of 3.13 reais apiece trails JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s target price of 5.40 reais and likely doesn’t reflect
the full value of the Acu port project, analysts Fernando Abdalla and Ricardo Rezende said in a note to customers
yesterday.  Questionable Price  “We would not be surprised if minorities question the
suggested price,” the analysts said. The offer “seems low if
compared with our valuation model.”  The analysts declined to comment further through JPMorgan’s
press office in  New York .  EBX Group Co., the holding company for most of Batista’s
assets, declined to elaborate on yesterday’s filing, as did
LLX’s press office in Rio.  Batista has said Acu will become the largest port in the
Americas with capacity to handle 350 million metric tons a year,
including  iron ore , oil and steel products. LLX, which has
signed contracts with companies including Anglo American Plc,
Subsea 7 SA and Technip SA, is negotiating 60 possible
agreements with firms seeking to do business at the port’s
industrial complex, according to the company’s  website .  The  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , LLX’s largest
shareholder after Batista, agreed to boost its stake in the
company as part of the offer announced yesterday, according to
the filing.  Deborah Allan , a spokeswoman for Ontario Teachers’
in Toronto, declined to comment.  Banco BTG Pactual SA, Bank of America Corp. and Banco
Santander SA were hired to assess the value of the shares, LLX
said.  ‘Evolving’ Projects  Batista’s offer will help bolster confidence in the LLX
projects because the billionaire is increasing his stake in the
company, said Victor Mizusaki, an equity analyst at UBS AG.  “He is putting more money in the company,” Mizusaki said
in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo yesterday. “We can see
that the projects are evolving.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  