-- Bayer’s Yasmin Lawsuit Settlements Rise to $402.6 Million
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-07-31T21:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/bayer-s-yasmin-lawsuit-settlements-rise-to-402-6-million.html
Bayer AG (BAYRY)  said settlements of U.S.
lawsuits over claims that its Yasmin line of birth-control pills
caused blood clots in women have increased to more than
$402 million.  Bayer, based in Leverkusen,  Germany , has resolved almost
 1,900 cases  in which it’s alleged that its  Yasmin  and  Yaz 
contraceptives caused clots that can lead to heart attacks and
strokes, the company said today in a stockholders’ newsletter.
Bayer said it has paid $402.6 million in settlements of one
category of clot cases, for an average of about $212,000 a case.  Bayer also more than doubled its reserve for Yaz cases,
setting aside 496 million euros ($610.5 million), the company
said. The drugmaker set aside a total of about 200 million euros
in 2010 and 2011, according to securities filings.  “We believe we have made appropriate provisions for most
of the cases we consider to be worthy of settlement with these
accounting measures,” Bayer officials said in an e-mailed
statement.  Drug-industry analysts, such as JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
Richard Vosser, have said Bayer may have to pay more than
2 billion euros to resolve all the cases over the pills.  Stronger Warnings  In April, the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  ordered
Bayer and other contraceptive makers to strengthen blood-clot
warnings on their products.  Pills like Bayer’s Yasmin, which contain a synthetic
hormone called drospirenone, will have warning labels saying
researchers found they may triple the risk for clots.  The FDA examined data on more than 835,000 women who took
pills containing  drospirenone , including Bayer’s Yasmin line,
according to the FDA report. Yasmin was the No. 4 oral
contraceptive in the U.S. in 2011, with 4.6 percent of the
market as of September, according to data from  IMS Health .  Bayer’s contraceptives generated $1.1 billion in sales in
2011, making them the drugmaker’s biggest-selling drugs after
Betaseron, a multiple sclerosis medication and Kogenate, a
medicine to treat hemophilia, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Revenue Forecast  Bayer released its stockholders’ newsletter on the same day
it raised its 2012 revenue and earnings forecasts, citing
increased sales of crop chemicals and drugs as well as favorable
exchange rates.  Bayer said revenue will gain about 4 percent to 5 percent
this year to 39 billion euros to 40 billion euros, excluding
currency and portfolio changes. The company previously forecast
a sales increase of about 3 percent.  Bayer’s  American depositary receipts , each representing one
ordinary share, rose 1.92 percent to $75.95 in over-the counter
trading today in  New York . Shares in Germany climbed 1.3 percent
to 61.60 euros.  Beyond Insurance  The $610.5 million Bayer set aside this quarter is to pay
the company’s costs beyond what insurance will cover for legal
fees and accords, including cases that haven’t been settled, a
spokesman, Guenter Forneck, said in a telephone interview today.
Bayer isn’t disclosing the amount of its insurance coverage.  In the newsletter, the drugmaker’s executives said Bayer
faced more than 12,000 lawsuits over the Yasmin line of
contraceptives, including claims that they caused blood clots in
some women and damaged gallbladders in others.  So far, Bayer has agreed to settle 1,877 cases in which
women blame the company’s contraceptives for causing clots in
their veins. “Such injuries are alleged in about 6,000 claims
and therefore in fewer than half the cases served to date,”
Bayer officials said in the publication.  ‘Making Progress’  “This indicates they are making progress putting these Yaz
suits over the vein clots behind them,”  Carl Tobias , who
teaches product-liability law at the  University of Richmond  in
 Virginia , said in a phone interview.  Michael Burg, a Denver-based lawyer for women suing over
the Yasmin line, said Bayer has refused to settle cases alleging
the contraceptives also caused clots in women’s arteries.  “Those cases involve some of the more serious injuries and
we look forward to trying them,” he said in a telephone
interview today.  The drugmaker is rejecting women’s claims that the
contraceptives damaged their gallbladders or caused gallstones,
Burg said.  Wave of Litigation  Since 2009, the German drugmaker has faced a wave of
litigation over the birth-control pills. Lawyers suing the
company cited FDA reports of at least 50 deaths tied to the
pills from 2004 to 2008. Plaintiffs’ lawyers contend in court
filings that Bayer officials marketed the contraceptives for
unapproved uses and misled women about their risks.  The cases filed in federal courts were consolidated before
U.S. District Judge David Herndon in  East St. Louis, Illinois ,
for pretrial proceedings.  Herndon scheduled a series of trials so juries could begin
weighing claims that Bayer and its units marketed Yaz and other
contraceptives as safer than rivals’ products while knowing they
posed a higher clot risk.  Settlement Progress  At Bayer’s suggestion, Herndon called in Stephen Saltzburg,
a  George Washington University  law professor, to serve as a
mediator. Saltzburg’s job was to explore the possibility of
“settlements in this litigation,” Herndon said in a December
order.  The judge put the trial schedule on hold while Saltzburg
met with lawyers for the drugmakers and former Yaz users.  Saltzburg said earlier this month that settlement talks are
continuing between the company and women’s lawyers and progress
is being made in resolving cases.  “There are always some holdouts, but I think we will
settle the bulk of these cases next year,” Saltzburg told an
 Illinois   newspaper  July 5.  The case is In re Yasmin and Yaz (Drospirenone) Marketing,
Sales Practices and Product Liability Litigation, 09-md-02100,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Illinois (East St.
Louis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin
at   nkresge@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net 
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 