-- Bayer Raises 2012 Forecasts on Crop Chemicals, Drugs
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-07-31T16:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/bayer-raises-2012-forecasts-on-crop-chemicals-drugs.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  raised its 2012 revenue and
earnings forecasts, citing increased sales of crop chemicals and
drugs as well as favorable exchange rates, sending its shares to
the highest price in more than four years.  Bayer said revenue will gain about 4 percent to 5 percent
this year to 39 billion euros ($48 billion) to 40 billion euros,
excluding currency and portfolio changes. The company previously
forecast a sales increase of about 3 percent.  Bayer is counting on its health and crop chemicals units to
drive growth after saying sales and profit from plastics will be
unchanged this year. Core earnings per share will rise about
10 percent and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation,
amortization and special items will increase by a high single-
digit percentage, the Leverkusen, Germany-based drugmaker said.
The company previously predicted a slight improvement for both.  The forecast came after Bayer reported “very strong”
second-quarter earnings, said Sebastian Frericks, an analyst at
Bankhaus Metzler in  Frankfurt , adding that the health-care unit
in particular performed better than expected.  Bayer’s stock rose 1.2 percent to 61.91 euros in Frankfurt
trading in a fifth day of gains and the highest price since
January 2008.  Ebitda before special items rose 6.7 percent to 2.17
billion euros in the quarter, from 2.04 billion euros a year
earlier, the drugmaker said in a  statement  today. That beat the
average  estimate  of 2.08 billion euros compiled by Bloomberg
from 14 analysts.  High Charges  The results beat expectations despite high one-time
charges, Peter Spengler, a Frankfurt-based analyst for DZ Bank
AG, wrote in a report.  Sales rose 10 percent to 10.2 billion euros, beating an
average analyst estimate of 9.75 billion euros. Core earnings
rose to 1.47 euros a share, compared with an average estimate of
1.37 euros.  The German company’s “major focus” is organic growth, and
it’s looking for “bolt-on” acquisitions in pharmaceuticals,
 animal health  and in consumer health products, Chief Executive
Officer Marijn Dekkers said in a Bloomberg Television interview
today.  Bayer’s stock has gained 25 percent this year, compared
with a this year through yesterday, including reinvested
dividends, compared with 11 percent for the Bloomberg Europe
Pharmaceuticals Index. Bayer said April 26 it might adjust its
forecast for crop chemicals because it expected market
conditions to remain good this year.  Farming Products  Agricultural sales including insecticides, herbicides and
seeds grew 17 percent to 2.28 billion euros, helped by high
prices for agricultural commodities. Bayer increased its
forecast for the unit, saying revenue will rise by about 10
percent, adjusted for currency fluctuations and portfolio
changes. Ebitda before special items will rise by about 20
percent, the company said.  Sales from health care, the largest of Bayer’s three main
divisions, will rise 3 percent to 4 percent this year after
currency and portfolio adjustments, Bayer said. Ebitda before
special items for the unit will rise by a mid- to high-single-
digit percentage, more than the slight improvement Bayer had
previously forecast. Second-quarter sales at the health unit
increased 10 percent to 4.63 billion euros.  The strength of the dollar and other currencies against the
euro boosted sales of Bayer’s health unit by 6.2 percent in the
second quarter. Exchange rates expanded agricultural sales by
5.2 percent and sales at the plastics unit by 5.3 percent.  Bayer had 762 million euros of one-time costs, including
496 million euros to settle lawsuits over blood clot injuries in
connection with the contraceptives Yasmin and Yaz.  Blood Thinner  Sales of Xarelto, the blood thinner Bayer markets together
with  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , reached 68 million euros in the second
quarter. The partners introduced the drug to U.S. irregular
heartbeat patients in the fourth quarter last year. Bayer
estimates the medicine’s annual sales will grow to more than
2 billion euros a year.  Xarelto’s second-quarter sales were in line with
expectations, Bankhaus Metzler’s Frericks said by telephone
today. He said he estimates the medicine will have sales of
about 300 million euros this year.  Revenue at Bayer’s plastics division, which makes materials
used in cars, electronics and other products, rose 6.5 percent
to 2.96 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  