-- Ben Bernanke Could Lose for Same Reason as Olympic Sailor
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-07-31T23:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/ben-bernanke-could-lose-for-same-reason-as-olympic-sailor.html
Ben has the right map. That’s the
assumption about Ben Ainslie, the U.K.’s top sailor, as he
competes in the Olympics this week.  The rest of us can’t see what charts Ainslie follows or
precisely what he does. We can’t even see him perform unless a
TV camera uses the correct high-powered lens. But we know
Ainslie knows which maps to use, and how to read them, even if
he has a challenge ahead to win his fourth career gold medal.  “Ben has the right map” is also the common assumption when
it comes to  Ben S. Bernanke , the Federal Reserve chairman, whose
navigational prowess is also being tested  this week , as the
 Federal Open Market Committee  meets. When it comes to monetary
policy one can broaden “Ben’s map” to say “the Fed’s map.” About
all we ourselves know is that the Fed is likely to prescribe
some “expansionary” policy, even a third round of quantitative
easing, and that this is supposed to be good. Public confidence
in the Fed is based more on faith in Fed charts and Bernanke’s
ability to use what the charts show.  Maybe Ainslie’s map-reading was off this week, as he trails
in the Finn class competition. Perhaps the Fed has the wrong map
altogether.  That is the conclusion about the central bank drawn by two
economists, the Nobel Memorial Prize winner  Vernon Smith  and
Steven Gjerstad, after a review of the 11 U.S. recessions since
World War II and as well as crises abroad.  Flawed Assumptions  In a paper in a  new book  on economic growth pulled together
by the Bush Institute, where I work, Smith and Gjerstad found
results that suggest our traditional monetary chart books,
especially the parts that advocate federal spending or money
creation, betray great flaws.  They reject the idea that more monetary stimulus can work
now. “An expansionary monetary policy today is unlikely to
generate a recovery, regardless of its size,” they conclude.  To see how they arrive at this bold contention it helps to
spell out the orthodox line and then the Smith-Gjerstad finding.  The basic premise at the Fed is that the central bank, with
the help of Congress, navigates the economy like a ship through
something called the business cycle, and that the North Star is
data on business investment, such as a measure called “gross
fixed investment” (spending on plants, machinery or roads).  Smith and  Gjerstad  found that business investment isn’t the
North Star to measure progress. They found that a less-used
datum, purchases of new single and multifamily homes, predicted
the timing, depth and duration of recessions. They reject the
very term “business cycle.”  “We believe that ‘business cycle’ is a poor description for
economic fluctuations in the U.S. over the past 85 years,” they
say. “We found evidence that a household expenditure cycle
generates a business investment cycle” -- and not the other way.  Another given in  monetary policy  is that the best thing a
monetary captain can do is to practice what the monetary sailors
call countercyclical policy: match force with force.
Encountering rough waters, the Fed or Congress must pour fuel --
money -- into the economy, powering it through the great waves.
The technicians’ discussion these days isn’t about whether to
pour such fuel; it’s about how to do so and when. Monetary
policy affects housing, Smith and Gjerstad agree. But homeowners
who owe more than their houses are worth won’t take more loans
or spend more money until their budgets look better. So
quantitative easing won’t work now.  Procyclical Alternative  There is a third strategy in the standard chart book that
goes with the wind instead of against it, the “procyclical”
stance. A procyclical policy would withdraw money from the
economy via monetary tightening or tax increases in a period
when the economy is already losing money due to recession.
Procyclicality is supposed to be lethal. It was what Bernanke
was warning against with his reference to the “ fiscal cliff ”
that looms when tax increases take effect in January.  Smith and Gjerstad argue that the best course for recovery
seems to be for the government to practice austerity, by
reducing spending, even during the recession. In other words, to
adopt that dread procyclical position. Additionally, countries
should focus on recovery through exports, they say, and allow
their currency to depreciate to improve terms of trade for
exporters.  Smith and Gjerstad found that “when government expenditures
were brought under control, the currency depreciated
significantly and the growth rate of exports moves sharply ahead
of imports.” President  Barack Obama ’s idea of an export-driven
recovery makes sense. “The austerity-depreciation mechanism is
remarkable,” the authors say.  Not all of us can endorse the emphasis on exports or
depreciation. Adopting such changes in a new Fed chart book
represents a more radical shift for the U.S., something greater
than that mandated by the “ audit the Fed ” legislation that
Congress just passed. All the audit-the-Fed bill does is give
the public a waterside seat. Still, any legislation or paper
that provides a close-up of monetary navigation, and makes new
suggestions, deserves its own gold medal. You can’t prepare for
the trip if you’re worried about a nonexistent cliff, or using
charts that deny the very possibility of the next storm.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on demanding a compromise to
 stop the fiscal cliff  and on why  Thailand needs political
stability ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Mitt Romney ’s  stumbles over his
wealth ; Clive Crook on why  Germany  should let the ECB do
 “whatever it takes” ; Mikhail Chernov on the  benefits of Libor
rigging ; Richard Cohen on the drama of the  Olympic fencing
duels ; Handel Reynolds on the  politics of mammograms .  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 