-- Best Sales Since 2007 Overshadowed by GM’s Unsold Pickups
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   H a s a n   D u d a r
-- 2012-08-01T02:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/best-sales-since-2007-overshadowed-by-gm-s-unsold-pickups.html
The best year for U.S. auto sales
since 2007 hasn’t been enough to boost  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s
shares. One reason is dealership lots such as Dave Gill
Chevrolet in Columbus, Ohio, that are overstocked with trucks.  GM said it entered July with more than five months’ supply
of full-size pickups, the most since April 2009, according to
researcher Ward’s Auto. This isn’t entirely accidental: Detroit-
based GM wants a stockpile to carry it through the change to a
new design next year. That plan may backfire if the segment’s
sales remain below those assumed at the start of the year.  “I don’t know what our store’s days’ supply is; it’s
probably embarrassingly high,” Matt Ringlien, a sales manager
at the Chevy store in Columbus, said in a telephone interview.
The dealership is frequently selling pickups for less than it
paid to GM “just to be competitive with our market,” he said.  Chris Ceraso , analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said this
month that GM, already offering heavy truck discounts, may have
insufficient demand that leads it to cut production as pickup
sales lag the rest of the market. In the U.S. auto market, on
pace to exceed 14 million sales for the first time in five
years, slow-selling pickups are a rare weak spot.  A lot is at stake with full-size pickups. GM and  Ford Motor
Co. (F) , which makes more money on F-Series pickups than any other
model, could use a stronger rebound in truck sales to divert
investors’ eyes from European units that are piling up losses.  Slumping Stocks  GM gained 1.8 percent to $19.71 at the close in New York.
Ford gained 1.5 percent to $9.24. GM’s $18.80 close on July 25
was the lowest since its November 2010 initial public offering.
Ford has  declined  14 percent this year.  U.S. light-vehicle sales probably rose 11 percent in July
to 1.17 million, the average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Industrywide deliveries climbed 15 percent in 2012’s
first six months to 7.27 million, according to Autodata Corp.  Investors should focus on the percentage change in vehicle
sales this month rather than the seasonally adjusted annualized
 rate , or SAAR,  Rod Lache , a Deutsche Bank analyst, wrote in a
July 24 report. Analysts said their estimates for the closely
watched rate were skewed this month because they were made
without updated seasonal factors from the U.S. Bureau of
Economic Analysis.  Estimates’ Range  Without the government-issued seasonal adjustments,
analysts used differing methods to calculate their sales rate
estimate.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  analysts used seasonal factors from July
2011 and discounted them by 4 percent to reflect fewer selling
days. Credit Suisse’s Ceraso used seasonal factors from July
2007, the last July until this month with 24 selling days.  The SAAR may match the second-quarter selling pace of 14.1
million, according to 16 analysts’ average estimate. Analysts’
estimates for SAAR ranged from 13.8 million to 14.3 million. The
median estimate of 40 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 14
million in a separate survey.  The sales rate slowed in the second quarter from 14.6
million in the year’s first three months, said David Lucas, vice
president of Autodata in  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey . The July
2011 pace was 12.2 million.  Full-size pickups probably accounted for less than 11
percent of industry deliveries in July, according Credit
Suisse’s Ceraso and Deutsche Bank’s Lache, who wrote that he was
“a bit disappointed that truck mix has not accelerated
faster.” Big pickups accounted for 13.5 percent of the U.S.
market from 2000 to 2007 on average, according to Autodata.  GM’s Month  GM’s July deliveries probably rose 2.1 percent, the average
of 11 analysts’ estimates. The automaker introduced an offer on
July 10 for no-haggle pricing on 2012 Chevrolet cars and trucks
plus a money-back guarantee on all new Chevys to clear out end-
of-model-year vehicles. That may help clear 2012 model year
Silverados, Ceraso said July 12.  “If GM’s market share does not improve meaningfully, we
could see the automaker cut 3Q12 pickup truck production by
more” than researcher IHS Automotive’s estimate of an 18
percent reduction from the second quarter, he wrote.  GM faces the prospect of disappointing U.S. truck sales as
the automaker addresses other issues, including continued losses
in Europe and the sudden resignation of  Joel Ewanick , the
company’s global marketing chief, who had halted advertising on
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  and next year’s  Super Bowl  while signing up with
English Soccer teams Manchester United and Liverpool.  Housing Hopes  A rebound in the housing industry is reason to be
optimistic that full-size pickups will improve in the second
half, according to  AutoNation Inc. (AN) , the largest U.S. new-vehicle
retailer. Pent-up demand that helped fuel the U.S. auto market’s
growth since industry sales fell to a 27-year low in 2009 is
starting to show in the housing market,  Mike Jackson , chief
executive officer of AutoNation, said in a July 19 interview.  Housing starts  rose 6.9 percent to a 760,000 annual pace in
June, the highest level in almost four years, the Commerce
Department said July 18 in Washington. Confidence among U.S.
homebuilders increased in July by the most since September 2002,
the National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo  index 
showed on July 17.  “GM wants to be safe and provide dealers with inventory
they need given the same economy and marketplace or an improving
one,” Tom Libby, an analyst for R.L. Polk & Co. in Southfield,
Michigan, said in a telephone interview.  Enough Trucks  The automaker also has been building extra inventory to
account for suspending production at its four full-size truck
plants for a combined 29 weeks to prepare them to make a
redesigned pickup that begins sales next year.  “We certainly have enough trucks to make it until the new
ones arrive,” said Ringlien, the Ohio dealer. “Early in the
year, people were concerned there was going to be a shortage.
But I don’t see that to be the case.”  The new trucks will be aimed at Ford’s F-Series, the top-
selling vehicle line in the U.S. for 30 years. Ford probably
increased sales by 0.8 percent in July, the average estimate of
11 analysts.  Ford is counting on F-Series and new models this year such
as the Escape sport-utility vehicle and Fusion sedan to boost
results after lowering its outlook for full-year profit on July
25. The Dearborn, Michigan-based company no longer forecasts
total pretax operating profit to equal last year’s $8.8 billion
because losses in Europe will widen to more than $1 billion.  Japanese Rebound  Japan-based automakers  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Honda (7267)  Motor
Co., which lost production after the March 2011 earthquake and
tsunami in their home country, probably led the industry with
the biggest year-over-year sales increases in July.  Honda may top the rest of the industry with a 41 percent
gain in July sales, followed by Toyota’s 25 percent increase,
the average estimates of eight analysts.  Vehicle shortages for Toyota and Honda sapped inventories
for other automakers last year and deterred some buyers who
waited for better selection of models.  U.S. auto sales are on pace for the best annual total since
2007. With the Europe’s auto market declining a fifth-straight
year and dragging on earnings for GM, Ford and Chrysler Group
LLC’s majority owner  Fiat SpA (F) , the automakers are counting on
steady demand in the world’s second-largest market to offset
losses in other regions.  Chrysler probably will lead the U.S. automakers with a 14
percent sales increase in July, the average of 10 estimates. The
 Auburn Hills , Michigan-based carmaker is running a national
promotion this month for all vehicles in its lineup that lets
buyers defer monthly payments for the first 90 days after
purchase.  No Slowdown  “We don’t see a slowdown in the second half of the year”
for the U.S. market, Richard Palmer, Chrysler’s chief financial
officer, said today on a conference call after the company
reported second-quarter profit of $436 million.  The automaker controlled by Turin, Italy-based Fiat led
major automakers in incentive spending during the first six
months, increasing promotions by 7.4 percent to $3,258 per
vehicle, according to Autodata.  Chrysler, Ford and GM benefited last year when the Japan
tsunami and floods in Thailand disrupted auto production and
sapped supply of Tokyo-based Honda’s best-selling models. Toyota
rebounded in the U.S. and globally, putting the automaker on
pace to outsell GM and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and reclaim its title as
the world’s top seller.  Toyota’s global sales rose 34 percent in the first six
months of the year to 4.97 million, leading GM by 300,000 and
Volkswagen by 520,000 deliveries. GM global deliveries rose 2.9
percent to 4.67 million during the first half while Volkswagen
sales increased 8.9 percent to 4.45 million.  VW, Nissan  Volkswagen, which set a target of more than 500,000 vehicle
sales in the U.S. this year, may have increased combined
deliveries of its Volkswagen and Audi brands by 23 percent in
July, the average of four analysts’ estimates. The two brands
boosted sales by 28 percent to 340,372 in the first half.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , beginning to sell its redesigned Altima
sedan, may report a 15 percent gain in deliveries for the month,
the average of eight estimates.  South Korea’s  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  may
combine to sell 0.9 percent more vehicles in July than a year
earlier, the average of six analysts’ estimates. The Seoul-based
automakers combined to increase deliveries by 14 percent this
year through June, according to Autodata.  The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from July 2011. Forecasts for the seasonally adjusted
annualized rate, or SAAR, are in millions of light vehicles.  July had 24 selling days, two fewer than the year-earlier
period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Hasan Dudar in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 hdudar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  