-- Blackstone’s Studzinski to Give Tate $1.57 Million More
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-07-31T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/blackstone-s-studzinski-to-give-tate-1-57-million-more.html
John Studzinski, senior managing
director of  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and a benefactor of Tate Modern,
said he’s giving the London museum another 1 million pounds
($1.57 million) to help pay for its new wing.  The U.S.-born banker-philanthropist pledged 5 million
pounds in May 2007 toward the planned 215 million pound
extension. Its construction was stalled until this year because
of a financing shortage. He’s now helping Tate raise the final
quarter of the building’s costs, or about 50 million pounds.  “We had the world economic crisis in 2008, which made
fundraising almost come to a complete halt,” Studzinski said in
a breakfast interview at London’s Wolseley restaurant. “During
that period of 2008 and what followed, we made a number of
contacts with a lot of people.”  “Many of those people want to give to the Tate,” he said,
citing potential donors from continental  Europe ,  Asia  (including
India) and  Russia .  Studzinski said he’s part of a new group of Tate 
benefactors who are contributing 1 million pounds each to form 
a select circle of patrons. His name is already on two of the 
Tanks, the inaugural spaces in the new extension.  Tate Director Nicholas Serota welcomed the gift.  “I am delighted,” he said in an e-mailed comment, “that
John Studzinski has pledged a further 1 million pounds, on top
of his existing generous gift to Tate, in support of an
initiative that we will be developing in the autumn to complete
the fundraising for Tate Modern.”  Morgan Stanley  Studzinski, 56, spent 22 years at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and three
at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  before joining Blackstone. He is based in
London and  New York .  This year, the banker is giving 4 million pounds to U.K.
non-profit institutions. They include  The Passage , a homeless
day center he helped found. Through his  Genesis Foundation ,
Studzinski also offers regular support to The Royal Court
Theatre, the Young Vic, and the Royal College of Art.  He recently became chairman of  Create , a non-profit
organization that takes the arts into London’s less privileged
east and had a 2012 budget of 1.7 million pounds. A highlight of
the current program is a show by photographer  David Bailey , who
was born in East London. Create’s main sponsor is  Deutsche Bank
AG. (DBK)   Studzinski is spearheading an initiative called  Create
Jobs , which offers young people 250 paid two-month placements in
the creative industries in East London.  Studzinski said the U.K. ought to simplify its tax system
to encourage giving by a wider spectrum of donors.  Mittal’s Olympics  “There’s a constituency of very wealthy people who will
continue to be generous,” said Studzinski. “Looking at Mr.
Mittal’s very generous contribution to the Olympics, I’m sure
his generosity would be there whether or not there’s a tax
incentive for it, because he is so wealthy.”  ArcelorMittal -- the world’s No. 1 steelmaker, led by
billionaire  Lakshmi Mittal  -- has contributed 19.6 million
pounds toward the  ArcelorMittal (MT)  Orbit, a spiraling steel tower
in the London 2012 Olympic Park.  Smaller fortunes, said Studzinski, may be daunted by the
complex process of getting tax relief for giving, which could be
more transparent.  “Americans still just say, ’If I give $100 million, I find
a way to allocate that over a certain number of years, and I
deduct that directly from my taxable income,’” he said. “In
this country, it’s a little bit of this and a little bit of
that, and it’s not as black and white.”  Studzinski is also a trustee of American Patrons of Tate,
an independent U.S.-based charity that acquires works for the
Tate and raises money for it.  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts and
 Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 