-- Congress Leaders Agree on Stopgap U.S. Spending Plan
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-08-01T16:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/boehner-said-to-be-ready-to-announce-deal-on-stopgap-spending.html
An agreement reached by congressional
leaders and President  Barack Obama  to fund the U.S. government
through March will give lawmakers time to debate $607 billion in
spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to start in January.  The House and Senate haven’t come up with a plan to avert
the spending cuts, which total $1.2 trillion over 10 years.
Unless Congress acts, the George W. Bush-era tax cuts and other
tax breaks will expire Dec. 31.  Congressional leaders said yesterday they will vote in
September on a $1.047 trillion, six-month stopgap measure that
would keep the government operating after the start of the
fiscal year on Oct. 1. The funding level is consistent with an
August 2011 law that raised the federal debt ceiling.  “This agreement reached between the Senate, the House and
the White House provides stability for the coming months, when
we will have to resolve critical issues that directly affect
middle-class families,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a
Nevada Democrat, told reporters yesterday.  Reid said the measure won’t contain unrelated policy items
that have held up passage of spending bills in the past.  ‘Welcome Development’  White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  said in a statement
that the agreement announced yesterday was “a welcome
development,” adding that the White House was “encouraged that
both sides have agreed to resolve this issue without delay.”  House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer of  Maryland  said today
that Republicans agreed to the six-month spending deal because
“they didn’t want to show their hand prior to the election”
about the “draconian” spending cuts they would eventually
propose.  That’s why  House Republicans  won’t offer a spending measure
for health programs that would eliminate a family planning
program, cut a variety of children’s health programs and won’t
finance implementation of the 2010 health care law, Hoyer told
reporters.  Republicans made a “purely political judgment” that a
confrontation over spending cuts that might “‘put at risk the
operations of the government would be politically damaging,’’ he
said. Hoyer didn’t say how Democrats would benefit from the
agreement.  More Information  Shortly after the deal was announced, Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, called on Obama
to provide lawmakers with more information about how the
automatic cuts would be implemented and what their effects would
be.  ‘‘We think more information, sooner, is better, and then we
could make an intelligent and well-informed decision about
whether it’s really important to act sooner rather than later
this year,” McConnell said.  The Republican-led House and the Democratic-led Senate need
a stopgap measure, known as a continuing resolution, because
Congress hasn’t agreed on any spending bills for the 2013 fiscal
year that begins Oct. 1.  Senate leaders have pressed for the $1.047 trillion funding
level. House Republicans dropped their demands for reduced
spending that amounted to an additional $19 billion in cuts in
discretionary spending.  Six-Month Measure  Representative Jeff Duncan, a South Carolina Republican,
said yesterday he wanted a six-month spending measure “to put
the funding of government into the 100 days” of Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ’s administration if he wins
in November.  Duncan, a member of the Republican Study Committee that
supports limited government, said he and other Republicans would
back the stopgap measure only if “it didn’t have a whole lot of
other monkey business tied to it.”  “Anything shorter than six months I would not support,”
he said.  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the second-ranking Democrat in the
Senate, said the agreement would avert “another threatened
government shutdown from the Republicans.”  Some of the lawmakers who write the annual spending bills
criticized the stopgap measure.  “Agreeing to put the government on autopilot for six
months is no great achievement,” Senator Thad Cochran of
 Mississippi , the top Republican on the Senate Appropriations
Committee, said in a statement. “It simply means more drift. It
means a longer period of uncertainty for government agencies and
the people they serve.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  