-- Boeing Dreamliner GE Engine Probed After Jet Spews Debris
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-07-31T02:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/boeing-dreamliner-ge-engine-probed-after-jet-spews-debris.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  is pulling an engine off
a new 787 Dreamliner and trucking it this week to  General
Electric Co. (GE) ’s facility in Cincinnati, where it will be
dismantled to find out why it spewed debris over the weekend.  A visual inspection yesterday showed that damage was
limited to the back end of the engine and doesn’t indicate a
fleet-wide problem, said  Rick Kennedy , a spokesman for GE. The
cause is “far from being determined” because a team will have
to tear the engine apart and examine it piece by piece, he said.  Debris blew out of the engine during a July 28 high-speed
taxi test of an Air India Ltd. 787 at the Charleston,  South
Carolina , airport near Boeing’s new factory there, igniting a
fire in the grass along the runway and temporarily diverting and
delaying flights.  “This is very uncomfortable for GE, for Boeing, for anyone
who flies 747-8s and for all the 787 customers who have
specified GE engines,” said  Hans Weber , chief executive of San
Diego-based aviation consultant Tecop International Inc. “So
they’re going to be working really hard to find out what
happened.”  The debris came from the low-pressure turbine area at the
rear of the engine, where the blades were damaged, Kennedy said.
It was a so-called contained failure, meaning parts didn’t
pierce the engine casing and instead blew out the back and away
from the plane as they’re designed to do, he said, “so that’s
good.”  A  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  Trent 900 engine exploded
midflight in an uncontained failure on an Airbus SAS A380
superjumbo jet operated by  Australia ’s Qantas Airways Ltd. in
November 2010. After a safe emergency landing, Qantas grounded
all six of its A380s for 23 days.  Not Catastrophic  The 787 incident wasn’t in the same catastrophic category
and probably wouldn’t have brought the plane down if it had been
in the air, because the 787 was designed to be able to fly with
just one engine if needed, even when fully loaded, Weber said.  “This is an unusual and significant failure, but it was
reportedly contained, which is key to making it less of a safety
issue,” said  Nick Cunningham , an aviation analyst at Agency
Partners in  London .  Still, the incident came a week after another involving
engines from Rolls-Royce, which competes with Fairfield,
Connecticut-based GE on power plants for the Dreamliner.  Japan ’s
 All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  pulled five 787s with Rolls-Royce engines
from service on July 21 after the manufacturer found that some
components had a shorter-than-expected service life.  Jim McNerney, chief executive officer of Chicago-based
Boeing, last week called the Rolls-Royce gear-box engine
problems “pretty minor” and said they wouldn’t hurt deliveries
of the plane.  ‘Serious Issue’  There are about 80 of the GEnx engines flying now, mostly
on 747-8s, which have four engines apiece, Kennedy said. The
model has about 125,000 flight hours in service so far, since
both the 787 and 747-8 reached their first customers late last
year, and “this is the first serious issue with the engine that
we’ve seen,” Kennedy said.  The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board, which sent
an investigator to Charleston, will work side-by-side with the
team while the engine is dismantled in Cincinnati, he said.  Marc Birtel , a spokesman for Boeing at its commercial
airplane headquarters in Seattle, said he couldn’t discuss the
specifics of the accident while it’s being investigated.  Second Plane  The plane involved in the incident hadn’t yet flown and
wasn’t painted in Air India’s livery yet, Birtel said. It was
the second to be built at Boeing’s South Carolina plant, which
opened last year, and was highlighted in a July 19 employee
newsletter after workers were able to roll it out of the factory
in half the time and more complete than the first jet had been.  Boeing’s North Charleston factory is one of two assembly
sites for the twin-engine 787, along with the company’s main
wide-body plant in Everett,  Washington .  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  has said it expects to
start receiving 787s in September, which will make it the first
U.S. airline to operate the jet. The airline plans to host a
live webcast this morning of its first 787 rolling out of the
paint hangar in Everett.  The 787 is the world’s first composite-plastic airliner and
entered service late last year, more than three years behind
schedule, with Japan’s All Nippon Airways. Boeing designed the
plane to fly long-haul routes while cutting fuel consumption.  Japan Airlines Co., the only current 787 operator using GE
engines, is in contact with Boeing and GE and hasn’t received a
directive to check the engines, Sze Hunn Yap, a spokeswoman,
said yesterday in  Tokyo . JAL’s Dreamliners are flying as
scheduled, she said.  ‘Incredible’ Heat  The low-pressure turbine drives the engine’s fan and is the
tail end of the process, Weber said. There’s an “incredible
amount of heat” in that area because it comes after the
combustion chamber, he said.  The blades “are marvels of engineering and metallurgy”
that rely on fine air passages and heat-resistant coatings to
resist temperatures higher than the melting point of the nickel
alloys used, he said.  Every part is carefully inspected and tested at the engine
factories before being installed, said Weber, a physicist who
has worked in the aviation industry for about 30 years and
helped develop better part-testing techniques in the 1990s.  “I can’t imagine how some defect could have slipped
through,” he said. “Hopefully this will continue to be an
extremely rare event and one that we won’t see again in a very
long time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in  Seattle  at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  