-- BOJ Shouldn’t Buy Foreign Bonds, Ex-MOF’s Utsumi Says
-- B y   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2012-07-31T01:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/boj-shouldn-t-buy-foreign-bonds-ex-mof-s-utsumi-says.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  should reject
calls for it to buy foreign currency bonds to weaken the yen
because such a move would hurt its independence, said Makoto Utsumi, a former top currency official.  Such purchases would be “akin to currency intervention and
wouldn’t be in the bank’s realm of authority,” said Utsumi, 78,
the former vice finance minister for international affairs and
now president of  Japan  Credit Rating Agency Ltd. “We’re not in
a situation where we need to blur that distinction.”  Signs of a global slowdown have boosted the yen’s haven
appeal, sending it to an 11-year high versus the euro this
month. It was at 78.12 per dollar as of 9:26 a.m. in  Tokyo , less
than 4 percent from the postwar record of 75.35 on Oct. 31.
Former BOJ Deputy Governor Kazumasa Iwata and Takehiro Sato, who
was appointed to the central bank’s policy board last week, have
called for the bank to weigh buying foreign-currency bonds.  Current Deputy Governor Hirohide Yamaguchi on July 25
signaled the BOJ isn’t considering such purchases, saying that
doing so to weaken the yen would be against the central bank
law, which says that the government dictates currency policy.  The currency’s strength doesn’t reflect the nation’s
economic fundamentals, and is rather a result of investor flight
to the least-worst alternative, Utsumi said in an interview on
July 27.  The yen tends to appreciate during periods of financial
turmoil because Japan’s current-account surplus makes it less
reliant on foreign capital. On the downside, a stronger currency
diminishes overseas profits for domestic companies.  ‘Orderly’ Markets  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told reporters in Tokyo today he
wouldn’t rule out any measures to counter what he called “one-
sided” moves in the yen.  The last time Japan sold its currency was Nov. 4, capping
14.3 trillion yen ($183 billion) in intervention operations in
2011, the third-largest yearly amount on record, according to
the Ministry of Finance. The U.S. Treasury Department in
December criticized Japan for selling its currency in what it
described as “orderly” market conditions last year.  Absent sudden market shocks, the Bank of Japan is best off
steering clear of the politicized topic of currency
intervention, which should be handled by the government through
special financial reserves, said Utsumi.  “In the market, people think we’re unlikely to see another
big move up in the yen,” Utsumi said. A sharp weakening “would
be worrisome,” as it would undermine the benefits of a stronger
currency, such as cheaper energy imports, he said.  Europe ’s worsening debt woes and signs of weakness in the
 U.S. economy  have bolstered demand for the yen. It appreciated
5.9 percent in the past three months, the best performance among
10 developed market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes.  “It’s questionable for how long the yen will stay
strong,” Utsumi said. “The short term is one thing -- going
forward the yen’s strength will be corrected.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  