-- BP Reports Loss on U.S. Asset Writdowns, Production Slump
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-07-31T15:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/bp-earnings-retreat-on-weaker-output-refining.html
BP Plc (BP/) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil
producer, reported a loss in the second quarter as the company
wrote down the value of U.S. assets and output dropped.  BP posted a net loss of $1.4 billion compared with a profit
of $5.7 billion a year earlier, the London-based company said
today in a statement. After one-time items and changes in
inventories, profit missed analyst estimates. Production,
excluding output from the Russian TNK-BP venture, slipped 7.4
percent to 2.3 million barrels of oil equivalent a day.  The results, which included impairment charges totaling
$4.8 billion, are a setback for Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley’s effort to rebuild the company after the 2010 Gulf of
 Mexico  spill by focusing on higher-margin fields and selling off
less-profitable assets. Output will remain limited by
maintenance work in the third quarter, BP said.  “These results are a significant miss and likely to
disappoint the market” even after the writedowns are stripped
out,  Peter Hutton , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said in a
note to clients. “This leads us to be concerned about BP’s
strategic progress.”  BP fell 4.4 percent, the most since Sept. 22, to 425 pence
by the close in  London .  BP took $4.8 billion in impairment charges as it wrote down
the value of U.S. shale gas assets and refineries and it decided
to suspend the Liberty project in  Alaska . It maintained the
dividend at 8 cents a share.  Missed Estimates  Adjusted first-quarter earnings fell to $3.7 billion from
$5.7 billion a year earlier. The average estimate of 16 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for profit of $4.6 billion on that
basis.  Oil production adjusted for disposals slipped 2.7 percent
in the second quarter, BP said. It stuck to the prediction that
production adjusted for divestments and excluding TNK-BP will be
“broadly flat” for the year.  “The effects of price movements have impacted our earnings
in the quarter,” Dudley said in a statement today. “Our
extensive turnaround and maintenance program, which will
continue into the third quarter, is also affecting some aspects
of our near term results.”  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s biggest oil company,
reported a larger decline than expected in profit last week.
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s largest producer, also missed
analysts’ estimates.  Brent crude  slid 7 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier to average $108.76 a barrel on
slowing global economic growth.  Share Slump  BP is down 7.7 percent this year as it came closer to
putting the April 2010 Macondo oil spill behind it. The company
reached a $7.8 billion settlement with victims in March. BP
still faces a trial over fines and liabilities with the  U.S.
Department of Justice . On July 12, the company agreed to pay a
$13 million fine for failing to correct safety shortfalls at the
Texas City refinery.  BP increased its provision for spill costs by $847 million,
bringing the total set aside to $38 billion. Profit was reduced
by $700 million from the first quarter by a lag in Russian
export duties on oil produced by TNK-BP, it said.  “There are misses across the board,” said  Jason Gammel ,
an analyst at Macquarie Capital Europe Ltd. in London. “Dudley
won’t be judged on just one quarter, but the underlying profit
per barrel just isn’t driving the bottom line it should be at
this level of production.”  Dudley ‘Impatient’  Dudley said that while he’s “impatient” with the
company’s progress, “We are not going to drift off the path of
the focus on safety and risk management,” he told journalists
on a conference call. “Stepping on the accelerator to bump up
performance in expense of that is not going to happen.”  BP is seeking to sell its stake in TNK-BP after years of
disputes with partners AAR, which in 2011 blocked an alliance
with  OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  to explore  Russia ’s Arctic waters. Rosneft,
Russia’s biggest oil company, said this month it’s interested in
buying BP’s half of TNK-BP.  Dudley told reporters on a conference call that he doesn’t
have plans yet for what the company would do with the cash from
TNK-BP because a sale isn’t certain and it would be a discussion
for the board.  BP is targeting total asset sales of $38 billion by the end
of next year after about $24 billion of divestments so far. The
company sold interests in natural-gas fields in  Wyoming  to  Linn
Energy LLC (LINE)  for $1 billion in June and also disposed of stakes in
two North Sea fields.  The company plans to dispose of the Texas City and Carson
refineries by the end of this year.  “We’re in discussions with a number of parties on both of
the refineries,” Dudley said on the conference call. When asked
if he would consider spinning off BP’s refining arm, Dudley
said, “I don’t buy strategically that that would necessarily
unlock value. But we continue to look at many options for BP.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  