-- Brazil Swap Rates Head for Seventh Monthly Decrease on Economy
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-07-31T14:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/brazil-swap-rates-head-for-seventh-monthly-decrease-on-economy.html
Brazil ’s swap rates headed for a
seventh monthly drop on concern President  Dilma Rousseff ’s
stimulus measures have yet to spur economic growth,
overshadowing signs of a pick-up in inflation.  The yield on interest-rate futures due in July 2014 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 7.82 percent at
11:15 a.m. in Sao Paulo, extending its monthly decrease to seven
basis points.  “The government is increasing its spending, trying to do
more public investment, but there is still not much to show,”
Alessandro Del Drago, an economist at Kinea Investimentos in Sao
Paulo, said in a telephone interview.  The real was poised for a monthly drop on speculation the
central bank will end a policy of swap auctions that supported
the currency.  Latin America ’s biggest economy will expand 1.9 percent
this year, compared with 2.7 percent in 2011, according to the
median estimate of about 100 analysts in a central bank survey
published yesterday. They cut their forecast for 2013 growth to
4.05 percent from 4.10 percent in the previous week.  Brazil plans another round of measures to spur growth
including lower electricity costs, an investment policy for
roads, ports and airports and more tax cuts, Rousseff told
reporters in  London  on July 27.  The central bank has cut the target lending rate by 4.5
percentage points since August to a record low 8 percent to
boost growth, which has faltered in the face of the European
sovereign-debt crisis and  China ’s slowdown. The government has
reduced taxes on  consumer goods  including automobiles to support
demand.  Prices as measured by the IGP-M index rose 1.34 percent in
July, the Getulio Vargas Foundation reported yesterday. That was
more than estimated by all except one of 36 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Brazil’s broadest inflation gauge has a 60 percent
weighting for wholesale prices, 30 percent for
consumer prices and 10 percent for construction costs.  The real depreciated 0.6 percent to 2.0528 per U.S. dollar,
extending its monthly drop to 2.1 percent, the worst performance
among major Latin American counterparts tracked by Bloomberg.  The central bank doesn’t plan to roll over $4.5 billion in
currency swaps that mature at the beginning of August, a
government official said last week.  Eased Stress  The level of stress in financial markets has eased in
recent days, allowing the government to settle swap positions,
said the official, who asked not to be identified because the
matter hasn’t been made public.  “The market is pricing in that the bank isn’t rolling over
swaps for a second day,” Italo Abucater, the head of  currency
trading  at ICAP Brasil CTVM, said in a phone interview from  Sao
Paulo .  The central bank auctioned $16.8 billion in swaps on 11
days from May 18 through June 29 to support the currency,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The sales were a
reversal of the bank’s dollar purchases, which increased to $7.2
billion in April, the most in 13 months, to weaken the real and
support the country’s exporters. The bank abandoned those
purchases in May.  The government had a 1.3 billion reais ($636 million)
 budget surplus  in June, the Treasury said in a report released
in Brasilia today. The median forecast of 12 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was for a surplus of 4 billion reais.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  