-- Bullish Chavez Bond Trade Has TCW’s Foley Beating Emerging Peers
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-07-31T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/bullish-chavez-bond-trade-has-tcw-s-foley-beating-emerging-peers.html
In June 2010, when  Venezuela ’s
economy was mired in recession, inflation was accelerating and
President  Hugo Chavez  was shutting  currency trading , Penny Foley
scooped up bonds of state-run  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  as they
sank below 60 cents on the dollar.  While other bondholders sold, Foley, who oversees TCW Group
Inc.’s  Emerging Markets Income Fund (TGEIX) , realized these actions
would do little to hurt the oil exporter’s ability to repay
debt, especially as global crude prices climbed. The bonds due
in 2014 have returned 73 percent, more than double the average
gain in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  benchmark emerging-market debt
index .  The investment helped the fund managed by Foley and David Robbins return 16.3 percent annually over the past three years,
beating 96 percent of peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Investing in the company known as PDVSA, Mexico’s
peso debt and high-yielding bonds of Chinese developers helped
the fund increase assets to $4.1 billion from about $150 million
in 2009, making it the fourth-fastest growing emerging-market
debt mutual fund in the U.S,  Bloomberg data show.   “The best trades are those where the perception of the
risk is greater than reality,” Foley, 66, said in a May 2
interview in her office in midtown  Manhattan .  Group Defection  Foley, who began her investment career 45 years ago, and
Robbins, 51, started managing the fund at Los Angeles-based TCW
in December 2009 after more than 40 of its fixed-income
professionals left to join former investment chief  Jeffrey Gundlach  at DoubleLine Capital LP.  The managers, who had previously run TCW’s Worldwide
Opportunities Fund, added more local-currency debt to take
advantage of the higher yields and potential currency
appreciation. They increased domestic bond holdings to as high
as 25 percent of the fund’s  assets  last year, before paring them
back to 9 percent in May. The fund held no local debt at the end
of 2009.  They have also bought more higher-yielding securities,
including PDVSA bonds for the first time since at least 2006,
according to Robbins. Venezuela is rated B+ at  Standard &
Poor’s , four steps below investment grade.  While Chavez, a former paratrooper who led a failed coup in
1992 before winning election six years later, drove away foreign
investment by taking over oil and cement industries and imposing
 capital controls , he has honored debt payments. Yields on the
PDVSA bonds due in 2014 have dropped to 11.7 percent from 20.3
percent at the end of June 2010.  Argentine Nationalization  The managers had used a similar strategy at Worldwide
Opportunities, which TCW says has returned an average 17.4
percent annually since Foley started the fund in 1987 to invest
in emerging-market stocks and bonds.  When Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner 
announced the nationalization of pension funds in October 2008,
the country’s benchmark dollar bonds maturing in 2015 tumbled to
18 cents on speculation the move signaled the government was
running out of cash amid the global financial crisis.  Foley and Robbins reasoned these moves would give the
government access to enough financing to remain out of  capital
markets  for at least two years. In January 2009, they bought the
benchmark dollar bonds at 31 cents for Worldwide Opportunities.
In May 2010, the managers cashed out at an average of 76 cents.  Early Recoveries  “We are more comfortable buying sovereigns and credits
that we think are in the early stage of a recovery,” said
Robbins.  The strategy  increased volatility  at the fixed-income fund.
The so-called standard deviation of return, a measure of price
swings, was 7.7 percent annually over the past two years,
compared with 5.9 percent for JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Diversified
Index. The fund’s adjusted return as measured by the Sharpe
Ratio trailed the index the past two years, a reversal of its
performance between 2008 and 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Miriam Sjoblom, an analyst with Morningstar Inc. in
 Chicago , said she wants to see if Foley and Robbins can keep
delivering superior returns as markets shift before considering
a change on their fund’s rating from neutral.  The fund  returned  1.9 percent last year, trailing the 7.4
percent gain in JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Diversified Index, as the
deepening  European debt crisis  caused a selloff in emerging-
market currencies and higher-yielding assets.  The Mexican peso and the bonds of Chinese home developer
Evergrande Real Estate Group Inc. have since recovered, helping
the fund gain 12.6 percent this year and beat 95 percent of its
competitors. The three-year return of 16.3 percent is 2.9
percentage points higher than the JPMorgan index.  Marathon Runner  “We tend to underperform in significant risk-off
periods,” said Foley. “If you stay the course, however, the
total return approach tends to outperform.”  A marathon runner, Foley splits her time between offices in
Los Angeles and  New York . When in California, she starts her day
at 4:30 a.m.  Away from the markets, she serves as board chairwoman of
 Trickle Up , a group that provides business training and seed
capital grants to poor people in countries from India to
Guatemala. She’s also a board member of  Kids In Sports  in Los
Angeles, which provides after-school sports programs. In 2008,
she posted a personal record at the New York City Marathon,
completing the race in 4 hours, 25 minutes.  “Penny is the most enthusiastic 66-year-old that I know,
whether it’s professionally or athletically,” said Benjamin Segal, who manages $9 billion assets at Neuberger Berman Group
LLC in New York and is a board member of Trickle Up.  First Job  Growing up in Hazleton, Pennsylvania, Foley studied
economics at Hollins College, now Hollins University, in
Roanoke, Virginia. She started her career in 1967 as an
associate at  Lehman Brothers , working on U.S. bond and stock
offerings and mergers and acquisitions.  In 1974, she landed a job at a newly established investment
banking operation for  Latin America  at Citibank, now part of
Citigroup Inc. She was responsible for arranging syndicated
loans, euro bonds and  project financing  in the so-called
“lesser developed countries” or LDCs.  “As a woman in business in the early ’70s, you had to take
some risks,” said Foley. “Opportunities were not immense.”  Foley left Citibank in 1985 for Drexel Burnham Lambert, the
New York-based investment bank that pioneered  junk bonds , to
start the LDC debt trading business. Foley and her colleagues
raised $170 million to set up the DBL Americas Development
Association LP in 1987 to invest in developing-nation assets.  Brady Bonds  Two years later, the U.S. Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady
announced a plan to allow banks to convert their bad loans to
 developing countries  into tradable debt instruments. The so-
called Brady bonds helped transform the defaulted loans into
more liquid securities. Debt trading volume increased from $734
billion in 1992, to $6.5 trillion in 2011, according to EMTA, a
New-York based association for emerging debt market.  When Drexel collapsed in 1990,  Robert Day , chairman and
founder of TCW Group who was an investor in the DBL Americas,
bought the fund and named it TCW Worldwide Opportunities Fund.
Foley stayed on.  Over the past two decades, Foley rode through the Mexican
peso devaluation in 1994, Asian financial crisis in 1997 and the
Argentine default in 2001. She lost money on Russian bonds after
the country defaulted in 1998, while profiting from distressed
company debt in  Argentina  following the country’s 2001 crisis,
she said.  Trimming Risk  Robbins joined Foley at TCW in 2000 after leading emerging-
market debt trading at Morgan Stanley and Lehman Brothers for a
combined 17 years. The two are assisted by Javier Segovia, who
leads a group of three credit-research analysts for the bond
fund.  For now, the fund is trimming risk exposure, favoring
lower-volatility dollar-denominated assets, as the European debt
crisis cuts into global economic growth, according to Foley. Its
cash position increased to 10 percent of its total assets at the
end of May, from 3 percent in September, while holdings of
local-currency bond reduced by half to 9 percent, according to
TCW.  It has cut the  holdings  of Venezuelan and Argentine dollar
bonds as inflation of more than 20 percent makes the countries
more vulnerable amid the slowdown, Foley said.  The fund still has more Venezuelan dollar bonds than the
benchmark model would suggest. These securities yield an average
12 percent, compared with less than 1.5 percent on 10-year
Treasuries, according to JPMorgan.  PDVSA’s bonds  accounted for 4.6 percent of the fund’s
assets as its top holding as of May, according to Foley. It also
owns Indonesian, Russian and Croatian government debt as well as
bonds of Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Latin America’s largest
lender by market value, and VTB Capital, a Russian investment
bank.  “If you know the credits, if you know the fundamentals,
once the risk-off trade stops, you will see a tremendous
rally,” said Robbins. “Our view is that if you wait, you miss
the bulk of the rally.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net ; 