-- Roderick O’Neil, Greenspan’s Failed-Firm Partner, Dies at 81
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-07-31T18:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/c-roderick-o-neil-greenspan-partner-in-failed-firm-dies-at-81.html
C. Roderick O’Neil, a former banking
executive at Manufacturers Hanover whose bid to build a money-
management firm with  Alan Greenspan  fizzled in the 1980s, has
died. He was 81.  He died on July 28 at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich,
Connecticut, according to his wife, Nancy. The cause was
complications from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, the nerve
disorder known as  Lou Gehrig ’s disease. He lived in Chappaqua,
 New York .  A graduate of  Princeton University  and the  University of
Chicago , O’Neil, known as Rory, rose to executive vice president
in charge of the personal trust department at Manufacturers
Hanover Trust Co., part of today’s  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  In 1977
he became a director of Travelers Corp. -- predecessor of
today’s Travelers Cos. -- and led its finance committee.  In 1984, he co-founded and became chief executive of
Greenspan O’Neil Inc. in New York. His partners in the new
investment firm were Greenspan, the future  Federal Reserve 
chairman who was then chairman of economic consultant Townsend-
Greenspan & Co., and talent agent Marvin Josephson, who owned
International Creative Management, now ICM Partners, until 1992.  A news release announcing the firm’s startup said it would
manage pension and endowment fund assets for major institutions
“based on strong economic and investment research and will make
use of the most modern investment techniques to provide
appropriate management of investment volatility.”  Brought Connections  Greenspan was well-known at the time for his three-year
term as chairman of the Council of Economic Advisors under
President  Gerald Ford . “The combination of Alan Greenspan, a
leading economist, and Rory O’Neil, a top  money manager ,
provides a powerful new entry in a rapidly growing industry,”
Josephson said in a statement at the time.  O’Neil brought with him a long list of contacts in the
pension community, and no shortage of confidence. “Everything
I’ve ever been associated with has been a success,” he said in
1986, according to Forbes magazine.  They were entering a highly competitive field. “Greenspan
O’Neil becomes one of hundreds of new investment management
firms established since 1980,” the American Banker newspaper
said in an article on the new firm. “Virtually every large
institutional investment firm in the country has suffered the
loss of at least one portfolio manager who has gone off to start
a new management firm.”  Missed Goal  The competition would prove too much even for the brand
names behind Greenspan O’Neil.  O’Neil, wanting to have $2 billion under management within
five years, sought business from the biggest pension funds,
those with at least $500 million in assets, according to a 1987
article in Forbes. His pitch was that Greenspan’s
prognostications on  interest rates  and other economic variables
would produce hefty returns.  The firm won only one significant account -- a portion of
Gulf & Western’s pension fund -- and peaked at $60 million under
management, bringing in just enough “to pay rent on the firm’s
lavish and expansive offices on  Manhattan ’s fashionable East
Side,” Forbes said.  Josephson, who had pledged $3 million in cash over three
years to the venture, pulled out in mid-1985 and canceled his
final $1 million commitment, according to Forbes. Greenspan
O’Neil closed on Jan. 31, 1987, after O’Neil couldn’t find a
buyer for what remained of the firm, Forbes said.  Reagan’s Choice  Four months later Greenspan was named chairman of the
Federal Reserve by President  Ronald Reagan . In Greenspan’s partly
autobiographical 2007 book, “Age of Turbulence,” neither
Greenspan O’Neil nor O’Neil personally was mentioned.  In a statement through his assistant, Greenspan said today
of O’Neil’s passing: “I am saddened. He was a valued
associate.”  Charles Roderick O’Neil was born on Jan. 26, 1931, in
Amityville, on New York’s  Long Island . He was the son of Charles
A. O’Neil and the former Elizabeth Whyte, according to Marquis
Who’s Who.  He graduated from Princeton University in 1953, earned a
master’s degree in business from the University of  Chicago  in
1957 and was an assistant vice president in the Chicago office
of A.G. Becker & Co. before joining Manufacturers Hanover in
1964, according to a New York Times story that year.  He joined the board of Hartford, Connecticut-based
Travelers in 1977.  Helping Hartford  Following his work with Greenspan and Josephson, he created
O’Neil Associates, a consulting company. He was a former
president of the Institute of Chartered Financial Analysts.  In 1981, he became chairman of  Riverfront Recapture Inc. , a
nonprofit organization formed to restore access to the
 Connecticut  River in Hartford, which had become walled off by
flood-control dikes and Interstate 91. In the three decades
since, four riverfront parks have opened, connected by paved,
lighted river walks, according to the group’s website.  He and his wife also supported the restoration of historic
properties in Hartford, where the couple lived for a time.  With his wife, the former Nancy Galante, O’Neil had six
children: Brian, Sarah, Tim, Kevin, John and Anne.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  