-- CafePress Falls Most Since IPO After Lowering Forecast
-- B y   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g
-- 2012-07-31T20:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/cafepress-falls-most-since-ipo-on-forecast-san-francisco-mover.html
CafePress Inc. (PRSS) , which lets people
customize t-shirts and buttons for political campaigns, fell the
most since its initial offering after projecting a quarterly
profit that trailed analysts’ estimates, citing anticipated
voter apathy in upcoming elections.  The shares  declined  41 percent to $8.09 at the close in  New
York . The stock has fallen 57 percent since its IPO on March 28.  CafePress, which enables customers to go online to print
slogans and other messages on products such as water bottles,
posters and stickers, expects “sluggishness” in political
sales in the second half of the year, Bob Marino, chief
executive officer of the Louisville, Kentucky-based company,
said on an analyst conference call yesterday.  “Due to prevailing voter sentiment, people are simply not
energized by political gear and that is impacting not only what
we anticipated for the presidential election but for the
politics category as a whole,” Marino said.  Adjusted earnings per share for the third quarter will be 5
cents to 7 cents, the company said yesterday in a statement.
Analysts projected 10 cents, the average of  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  The second-quarter net loss totaled $260,000, or 2 cents a
share, compared with a loss of $129,000, or 1 cent, a year
earlier, CafePress said yesterday.  “Though they posted a disappointing quarter and guidance,
the stock is being overly punished at these levels,”  Aaron Kessler , a Raymond James & Associates analyst, said in a
telephone interview today. “Consumer factors like lower
political spending and European weakness impacted sales this
quarter.”  Kessler  recommends  buying the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Blessing in New York at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  