-- California Luring Most Cash Defies Bankruptcy Wave: Muni Credit
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/california-luring-most-cash-defies-bankruptcy-wave-muni-credit.html
California  municipal funds are
garnering the most demand since 2007, helping fuel the biggest
rally in the state’s debt since May and allaying concern that
bankruptcies would curb the appetite of individual investors.  With local yields close to the  lowest  since the 1960s,
investors seeking tax-free income are willing to take the added
risk of debt from  Standard & Poor’s  lowest-rated U.S. state.
Bond funds focusing on California issuers have added assets for
18 straight weeks, the longest streak since 2007, according to
Lipper US Fund Flows data.  The funds increased even as three municipalities in the
past six weeks from the most-populous state decided to file for
 bankruptcy protection , including San Bernardino and Stockton, a
city east of  San Francisco  that is trying to set a precedent by
imposing losses on bondholders.  “Those names have not been large enough to rattle
investors even at generational-low yields,” said  Marilyn Cohen ,
who oversees $195 million of munis as president and chief
executive officer of Los Angeles-based Envision Capital
Management. “The appetite is voracious.”  Buyers are more concerned with pending tax increases than
recent bankruptcies, she said. Governor  Jerry Brown , 74, signed
a second straight on-time budget in June. The plan relies on
voters in November approving $8.5 billion of temporary increases
in sales and income taxes for the fiscal year that began July 1.  45 Years  Investors demand about 0.94 percentage point of extra  yield 
to hold debt of California issuers, Bloomberg Fair Value data
show. The yield gap, down from a six-month high of 1.06
percentage point two weeks ago, has narrowed the most since May.  Munis have joined a fixed-income rally led by Treasuries as
investors seek shelter from  Europe ’s debt crisis and signs of a
slowing global economy. Twenty-year general-obligation yields
fell to 3.61 percent last week, according to a Bond Buyer  index ,
close to a 45-year low set in January.  Tax-exempt debt declined across most maturities yesterday, 
with 10-year securities posting their biggest loss since mid-May, 
Bloomberg Valuation data show. Yields on AAA bonds due in 2022 
rose about 0.04 percentage point to 1.66 percent, after last week 
touching 1.63 percent, the lowest since at least January 2009.  With tax increases looming while yields remain depressed,
flows into California funds may persist, said Michael Pietronico, who handles about $770 million of munis as chief
executive officer of Miller Tabak Asset Management in  New York .  “Given that yields are so low, anything an investor can do
to enhance return they’re doing,” he said.  Scarcity Effect  Individual investors have added $676 million to California
bond funds since the streak of asset increases began in March,
according to Lipper.  California debt has also benefited from relative scarcity.
As part of steps to trim the state’s deficit, Brown cut issuance
of general-obligation borrowing to $11.5 billion in 2011 and
2012, the lowest two-year total since 2006, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The state’s securities have returned 6.9 percent this year,
compared with 5.8 percent for the broader muni market and 2.4
percent for Treasuries, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  California localities are still feeling the pinch of the
recession that ended three years ago. San Bernardino, a city of
209,000 east of  Los Angeles , said last week it will defer paying
$3.4 million in pension bonds and $2.2 million toward retiree
health care to tide it over before seeking court protection.  At the state level, California has made fiscal progress.
June marked the first time in a dozen years the world’s ninth-
biggest economy accomplished a second-consecutive timely budget.
S&P said the plan’s “realistic” deficit solutions merit a
positive debt outlook. S&P rates California A-, seventh-highest.  “People are more comfortable with what’s going on in the
Golden state,” said Bud Byrnes, president and chief executive
officer of RH Investment Corp., a muni-bond trading company in
Encino, California.  Following are pending sales:  CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY plans to sell about $365
million of revenue bonds as soon as tomorrow, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A $16.8 million portion will be taxable.
Moody’s Investors Service rates the debt Aa2, third-highest.
Proceeds will go toward refunding and projects such as
construction of campus buildings, according to S&P. (Added July
31)  New York’s TRIBOROUGH BRIDGE & TUNNEL AUTHORITY plans to
sell about $1.2 billion of revenue bonds as early as this week,
according to an offering statement. Proceeds will be used to
refund debt. (Updated July 31)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian White in New York at 
 gwhite46@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  