-- Canada’s Economy Expanded Less-Than-Expected 0.1% in May
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-07-31T14:52:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/canada-s-economy-expanded-less-than-expected-0-1-in-may-1-.html
Canada ’s  gross domestic product  grew
less than economists predicted in May as a manufacturing decline
curbed gains in energy and retailing.  Output rose 0.1 percent to an annualized C$1.29 trillion
($1.28 trillion), following gains of 0.3 percent in April and
0.1 percent in March, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa.
The May increase was less than the 0.2 percent forecast by the
median of a Bloomberg economist  survey  with 23 responses.  Slowing growth suggests  Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark
Carney , who has kept the central bank’s  key lending rate  at 1
percent since September 2010, the longest pause since the 1950s,
probably won’t raise borrowing costs any time soon. Carney cut
his second-quarter growth forecast earlier this month to 1.8
percent, and said weaker global demand would curb the expansion
through next year.  “It’s tough to be able to see the bank raise rates any
time soon,” said  Benjamin Reitzes , an economist at BMO Capital
Markets in Toronto, who expects the central bank will continue
its rate pause for another year.  The Bank of Canada is relying on business investment and
 consumer spending  for economic growth in what it calls the
slowest export recovery since World War II.  Canada’s dollar slipped 0.1 percent to C$1.0028 per  U.S.
dollar  at 10:33 a.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys 99.72
U.S. cents.  Oil Rebound  Retailing advanced 0.7 percent in May, after declining 0.9
percent in April. Wholesale sales rose a sixth straight month,
by 0.1 percent. Finance and insurance rose 0.5 percent, led by
trading on  stock exchanges  and by personal lending, Statistics
Canada said.  Mining and oil and gas rose 0.6 percent in May following
April’s 2 percent increase. Crude oil producers led the increase
in May following “maintenance and production difficulties” in
February and March, according to the report.  Policy makers in Canada have said they may need to raise
rates because the world’s 10th largest economy is close to full
output, at a time when other central banks are examining new
stimulus.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said last week
that policy makers will do whatever is needed to preserve the
euro as the region’s sovereign and bank debt crisis persists,
while U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
lawmakers July 17 the central bank is ready to take further
action to boost the recovery.  “Unless disaster strikes it looks like the economy is
going to grow,” Steve Ambler, an economics professor at the
Université du Quebec à Montréal and former special adviser at
the Bank of Canada, said before the report. “The Bank of Canada
should still aim to gradually increase rates to something more
normal,” he said.  Manufacturing Challenge  Manufacturing fell 0.5 percent in May, as durable goods
such as machinery and electronics dropped 0.6 percent.
Construction declined 0.2 percent and the output of real estate
agents and brokers fell 4.8 percent, the first decline in four
months,  Statistics Canada  said.  “We are obviously watching the global economic situation
very closely, and we think in the next couple of quarters it
will continue to be challenging,” James Lopez, chief executive
of lumber maker  Tembec Inc. (TMB) , said on a July 26 conference call.  Transportation and warehousing  declined  0.5 percent in May
as railway service was disrupted, the report said.  Canadian
Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  had a nine-day strike that month that ended
with back-to-work legislation.  From a year earlier, the economy  grew  2.4 percent in May,
according to the report. Canada’s economy is on pace for second-
quarter growth of about the 1.8 percent annualized pace the
central bank estimated earlier this month according to  David
Tulk , chief Canada macro strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s
TD Securities unit.  “There is little pressure for the Bank of Canada to take
its overnight rate higher until the international environment
improves,” Tulk wrote in a client note.  Factory Prices  Statistics Canada also said today its industrial product
price  index  fell 0.3 percent in June from May. Economists
forecast a 0.1 percent decline in a survey with nine responses.  The raw-materials price  index  fell 4 percent in June, the
fifth straight decline, faster than the 3 percent decrease
predicted in a Bloomberg economist survey.  Industrial prices rose 0.4 percent from a year earlier
while raw-materials costs fell 11.7 percent, suggesting factory
profit margins widened.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  