-- Canada May Gross Domestic Product Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-07-31T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/canada-may-gross-domestic-product-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the May GDP report released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product edged up 0.1% in May, after
increasing 0.3% in April. The output of  service industries  rose
0.1% in May on the strength of retail trade and the finance and
insurance sector. Accommodation and food services, and wholesale
trade were also up. Transportation services and the arts and
entertainment sector, however, declined. Goods production was
unchanged in May as the increase in mining and oil and gas
extraction was offset by declines in manufacturing and, to a
lesser extent, construction.  Retail trade increases and wholesale trade edges up  Retail trade rose 0.7% in May after declining 0.9% in April.
Increases were recorded at food and beverage stores, clothing
and clothing accessories stores, and gasoline stations. In
contrast, retailing activity at motor vehicle and parts dealers
and at health and personal care stores decreased.  Wholesale trade edged up 0.1% in May, the sixth consecutive
monthly advance. Wholesaling of machinery and equipment, of food,
beverage and tobacco products and of motor vehicles and parts
increased. Conversely, wholesaling of personal and household
goods, and farm products declined.  Finance and insurance sector activity increases  The finance and insurance sector rose 0.5%, with increases
in the volume of trading on the  stock exchanges  and in personal
lending. The output of insurance carriers was also up.  Mining and oil and gas extraction rises again in May  Mining and oil and gas extraction increased 0.6% in May
after rising 2.0% in April. Oil and gas extraction advanced 1.5%
in May as crude petroleum production continued to rise after
maintenance and production difficulties in February and March.
Natural gas production was also up in May, and storage levels of
natural gas declined for the second consecutive month. However,
support activities for mining and oil and gas extraction fell
8.7% as drilling and rigging services decreased.  Mining excluding oil and gas extraction grew 1.0% in May,
as increased output at potash mines offset declines in metal ore
and coal mining.  Manufacturing declines  Manufacturing declined 0.5% in May. Durable goods
production decreased 0.6%, mainly as a result of lower
manufacturing of machinery, computer and electronics products,
and primary metal. Manufacturing of non-durable goods (-0.3%)
also fell as declines in food products and refineries more than
offset increases in clothing and paper products production.  Construction down  Construction was down 0.2% in May as decreases in
residential building and, to a lesser extent, non-residential
building construction outweighed the increase in engineering
construction and repair work.  The output of real estate agents and brokers declined 4.8%
after increasing for three consecutive months, as activity in
the home resale market decreased in May.  Other industries  Transportation and warehousing services fell 0.5%, mainly
as a result of a decline in rail services, which were impacted
by a strike in late May. The arts, entertainment and recreation
sector also decreased, while accommodation and food services
were up.  Note to readers  The monthly gross domestic product (GDP) by industry data
at basic prices are chained volume estimates with 2002 as the
reference year. This means that the data for each industry and
each aggregate are obtained from a chained volume index
multiplied by the industry’s value added in 2002. For the 1997
to 2008 period, the monthly data are benchmarked to annually
chained Fisher volume indexes of GDP obtained from the constant-
price input-output tables.  For the period starting with January 2009, the data are
derived by chaining a fixed-weight Laspeyres volume index to the
prior period. The fixed weights are 2008 industry prices.  This approach makes the monthly GDP by industry data more
comparable with the expenditure-based GDP data, chained
quarterly.  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted. For more
information on seasonal adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and
identifying economic trends ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/pub/11 -
010-x/2010003/part-partie3-eng.htm) .  Revisions  With this release of monthly GDP by industry, revisions
have been made back to January 2011. For more information about
monthly GDP by industry, see the National economic accounts
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/index-eng.htm ) module on our
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  