-- Canada’s Dollar Gains for Second Month on Increased Risk Demand
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-07-31T21:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/canadian-dollar-heads-for-2nd-monthly-gain-on-easing-speculation.html
Canada ’s dollar posted a second
monthly gain versus its U.S. peer as speculation the  Federal
Reserve  and  European Central Bank  may extend liquidity
operations spurred appetite for higher-risk currencies.  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is nicknamed, added
1.4 percent in July, after gaining 1.6 percent in June, amid
optimism the ECB will take steps to lower bond yields in Spain
and Italy, and before Fed policy makers end a two-day meeting
tomorrow. The currency fell today against the greenback after a
report showed Canada’s May economic expansion trailed forecasts.  “Everyone is looking at what’s going on with the Fed and
the ECB this week,” Charles St-Arnaud, an economist in New York
at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in an interview. “We’ve had a
good run of appreciation in the Canadian dollar. Most of it is
on the expectation that you’ll have some form of easing from the
ECB or the Fed. If either of those two central banks disappoint
this week, dollar-Canada could jump higher on that.”  The Canadian currency appreciated 0.2 percent to C$1.0031
per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
99.69 U.S. cents.  Recent gains in higher-risk currencies including the
dollars of Canada, Australia and  New Zealand , as well as
Sweden’s krona and Norway’s krone, may have further to run as
Chinese data improves and investors increase holdings of euros,
according to Todd Elmer, head of Group-of-10 currency strategy
for Asia excluding Japan at Citigroup Inc.  Citigroup’s Economic Surprise Index for China has “begun
to bounce,” while the bank’s foreign-exchange positioning
indicator shows a surge in euro buying since July 20, he wrote.  ‘Further Room’  “The rise in risky-currency longs is somewhat more modest
than we might anticipate on the basis of the recent relationship
with euro positioning,” Singapore-based Elmer wrote in a note
to clients today. “This suggests there could be further room
for risky-currency buying as investors put more money to work.”
A long position is a bet a currency or asset will rise.  China’s manufacturing purchasing managers’ index for July
may have risen to 50.5 from 50.2 in June, according to the
median of 24 estimates before a government report due at 9 p.m.
New York time.  Canada’s gross domestic  product  grew less than economists
predicted in May as a manufacturing decline curbed gains in
energy and retailing.  Output rose 0.1 percent to an annualized C$1.29 trillion
($1.28 trillion), following gains of 0.3 percent in April and
0.1 percent in March,  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa.
The May increase was less than the 0.2 percent median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Bonds Rise  Government bonds  rose for a second day, sending the
benchmark 10-year yield down two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.68 percent. The price of the 2.75 percent
securities due in June 2022 added 19 cents to C$109.69.  “There’s some expectation that we’ll get QE3 in the
U.S.,”  Lutz Karpowitz , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at
Commerzbank AG, said by phone from  Frankfurt , referring to a
third round of asset purchases under quantitative easing. That
has generated “risk appetite, which is always positive for
these commodity currencies.”  The common currency pared gains today after the German
Finance Ministry said in an emailed statement it sees no need to
give the euro region’s permanent bailout fund a banking license.
A license for the European Stability Mechanism would allow it to
increase its firepower through access to ECB funds.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  pledged last week to “do
whatever it takes” to preserve the common currency, suggesting
policy makers may intervene in bond markets to support ailing
euro-area economies.  U.S. Consumers  The U.S. dollar remained lower versus the euro after data
showed  consumer spending  in the U.S. stagnated in June,
supporting bets the Fed will expand its balance sheet to
stimulate the economy. Central-bank Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said this month U.S. policy makers are “looking for ways to
address the weakness in the economy should more action be needed
to promote a sustained recovery in the labor market.”  For the U.S. dollar-Canada dollar exchange rate, “it is
very likely that all will hinge on central-bank developments
over the coming days”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign
exchange at  National Bank of Canada (NA)  in Toronto, said in a
telephone interview. “Given what seems to be priced into the
market at these levels, one might consider the potential for
disappointment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  