-- Central Florida Gets Postseason Ban, $50,000 Fine From NCAA
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-07-31T15:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/central-florida-gets-postseason-ban-50-000-fine-from-ncaa.html
The  University of Central Florida 
was banned from the football and men’s basketball postseason
this year and is on probation through 2017 because it knowingly
allowed third parties to recruit and make cash payments to
athletes, college sports’ governing body said.  Two representatives provided more than $16,000 to three
recruits and two current student in cash, tuition, a laptop
computer and free travel, according to the  National Collegiate
Athletic Association .  One person had so much contact with recruits that the
parents thought he was a coach for the university, the NCAA said
in a statement.  The  Orlando , Florida-based school was cited for a  lack of
institutional control , fined $50,000, stripped of five football
scholarships and two men’s basketball scholarships for three
years, had recruiting days reduced and some men’s basketball
victories wiped out.  The NCAA’s said former Athletic Director Keith Tribble
“claimed that he was not aware of recruiting rules and did not
know he was engaging in impermissible activity.”  “As the leader of the athletics department, it is
incumbent upon the director of athletics to know basic rules
governing the Association,” according to the NCAA’s Division I
Committee on Infractions, which heard the case.  The NCAA said men’s basketball coach Donnie Jones didn’t
monitor, discourage or ask questions about the activities of the
third parties. He was already suspended for three conference
games without pay by the university. He’s been barred from off-
campus recruiting during the July evaluation periods in 2013 and
received a three-year show-cause order, which means the
university has to show the NCAA why he shouldn’t be restricted
from recruiting.  Coaches’ Duties  “A head coach is not required to investigate wrongdoing,
but is expected to recognize potential NCAA violations, address
them and report them to the athletics administration,” the NCAA
said in a statement.  Tribble and assistant football coach  David Kelly  tried to
deceive investigators, according to the NCAA. Both have
resigned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  