-- Chavez’s Diplomatic Coup Deepens Rift in Brazil-Led Trade Pact
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-07-31T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/chavez-s-diplomatic-coup-deepens-rift-in-brazil-led-trade-pact.html
Hugo Chavez’s back-door entry into
the Mercosur trade bloc led by  Argentina  and  Brazil  casts doubt
on the future of a pact that has fueled a tenfold boom in
commerce between  South America ’s two biggest economies.  Chavez will attend today a ceremony in Brasilia welcoming
Venezuela as a full member of the world’s third-biggest trade
bloc after Paraguay was suspended last month over lawmakers’
ousting of President Fernando Lugo. Paraguay’s refusal to ratify
Venezuela’s admission had held up since 2006 the country’s entry
into the four-nation group, which also includes Uruguay.  Paraguay has contested Venezuela’s membership, winning
support from top Uruguayan officials and Brazil’s opposition,
who say Chavez’s human rights record and seizure of foreign-
owned companies is anathema to a group founded to promote
democracy and trade. With Chavez lobbying for a more politicized
Mercosur to advance his anti-U.S. agenda, his entry may isolate
the group from a trend toward greater openness in the rest of
 Latin America , former Brazilian diplomat Marcos Azambuja said.  “Mercosur will become less effective and less relevant
with Chavez,” Azambuja, who was ambassador to Argentina as well
as deputy foreign minister when the bloc was created, said by
phone from Rio de Janeiro. “He’s not destroying Mercosur, but
he’s making the road ahead slightly bumpier.”  Losing Momentum  The creation of the free trade zone two decades ago was a
driver of trade between Argentina and Brazil just as South
America’s longstanding economic rivals were emerging from
decades of military rule. Trade between the two countries surged
to $32 billion in 2010 from $3 billion when Mercosur took effect
in 1991, according to  data  from the  United Nations ’ Economic
Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean.  Manufacturers such as Fiat SpA and Volkswagen AG also set
up cross-border supply chains to get around an external tariff
wall of 35 percent and gain access to a market that now
comprises 250 million consumers. With a combined gross domestic
product of $3 trillion, Mercosur is the world’s third-largest
trade bloc after the European Union and  North American Free
Trade Agreement  that includes the U.S.,  Mexico  and  Canada .  More recently, the push to reduce trade barriers has lost
momentum, and even gone into reverse as Argentina and Brazil
haggle over everything from trade in shoes to pork amid a
slowdown in economic growth. The bloc’s share of global foreign
direct investment, after surging to 6 percent in 1997 from 2
percent in 1991, has since retreated to 4 percent in 2010
despite rising Chinese demand for the region’s raw materials,
according to World Bank  data .  No EU  One reason for the decline is weak investment safeguards.
Argentina faces more compensation claims from companies at the
World Bank’s International Centre for Settlement of Investment
Disputes than any other country. Venezuela is ranked second.  Last year, as Argentina’s trade deficit with Brazil widened
to $4.5 billion, tensions between the two countries escalated.
Argentina began delaying the processing of import licenses to
slow imports, said Mauricio Mesquita Moreira, chief trade
economist at the  Inter-American Development Bank . President
 Dilma Rousseff ’s government then retaliated by reducing imports
of cars and other goods.  “This clearly goes in the opposite direction of the
ambitions of the Mercosur agreement” to replicate the European
Union’s free flow of goods and people, Moreira said by phone
from  Washington . “Either you have a common market or you
don’t.”  Argentina’s Push  Steering Venezuela’s entry into Mercosur was Argentine
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, one of Chavez’s top
allies.  Fernandez’s seizure in April of Spanish-owned oil producer
YPF SA and inflation that analysts estimate exceeds 20 percent
have put the two countries on a similar economic track, with
investors demanding 1,000 basis points in extra yield to own
their government debt instead of U.S. Treasuries. In contrast,
Brazil’s country risk has narrowed 36 basis points this year to
189, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co’s data.  Still, thanks to a surge in spending by Chavez ahead of
October’s presidential election, Venezuela is the fastest-
growing of the three, forecast to expand 4.95 percent this year
compared with 2 percent and 2.15 percent growth for Argentina
and Brazil respectively, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Venezuela risks diverting Mercosur even further from its
mission given Chavez’s support for protectionism, said  Michael Shifter , president of the  Inter-American Dialogue  in Washington.  Closed Economy  Venezuela’s “burdensome” import rules and corruption
makes it one of the world’s most closed economies, beating out
only by Burundi and Chad, according to a  2012 report  by the
Geneva-based  World Economic Forum  that ranked 132 nations for
trade openness. Argentina is ranked 96th and Brazil is 84th.  Five of the six top-ranked Latin American nations fall
outside Mercosur, including  Chile , Mexico and Peru, which all
have trade deals with the U.S. and are members of the fledgling
Pacific Alliance trade group created this year with  Colombia .
While Mercosur has managed to implement a single free trade
accord with  Israel , Chile alone has pacts covering 18 countries.  Businesses in Paraguay, disappointed with Mercosur’s move
to suspend their country and welcome Venezuela, are studying
whether it’s possible to exit the pact and sign a treaty with
the Pacific Alliance, Eduardo Felippo, president of the nation’s
biggest industrial lobby group, said by phone from Asuncion.  “The problem with Mercosur isn’t Paraguay, it’s
Venezuela,” Paraguay’s President Federico Franco told
Argentina’s La Nacion newspaper in an interview published July
29, adding that his country didn’t need any “foreign tutoring”
on how to conduct its affairs.  Regional Disillusionment  Uruguay’s Foreign Minister Luis Almagro and Vice President
Danilo Astori also stated their disagreement with the way
Venezuela gained entry into Mercosur.  In retaliation for Lugo’s impeachment with barely 24 hours
to mount his defense, leaders at an emergency summit last month
in Argentina suspended Paraguay from partaking in any of
Mercosur’s decisions until it holds a presidential election in
April 2013. At the same time, the group welcomed Venezuela as a
member, bypassing ratification that had cleared every member
state’ except Paraguay’s Senate.  “There’s an opportunity for the Pacific Alliance to gain
some more traction as certain governments become disillusioned
with Mercosur,” Shifter said.  Franco’s office and Argentina’s Foreign Affairs Ministry
didn’t respond to telephone calls seeking comment. A press
official with Brazil’s Foreign Ministry, who can’t provide his
name due to internal policy, said that Venezuela’s entry
complied with the pact’s guidelines.  Oil Clout  Still, Mercosur will gain some clout by accepting South
America’s largest oil producer as a member, Rubens Barbosa, a
former Brazilian ambassador to the U.S. who helped negotiate the
creation of the bloc, said by phone from  Sao Paulo . Argentine
and Brazilian exporters stand to benefit from Venezuelan demand
for imports of manufactured products and food, he said.  Venezuela last year posted trade deficits of $1.2 billion
and $2.9 billion respectively with Argentina and Brazil.
Venezuelan tariffs on Argentine and Brazilian manufactured goods
may fall to as low as zero if Chavez’s government adheres fully
to the bloc’s terms of free trade.  The benefits may not be reciprocal as Venezuela’s
dependence on oil for 95 percent of its exports has weakened its
manufacturing base.  After today’s meeting, leaders plan to establish a working
group to negotiate details of Venezuela’s membership, including
a timeframe for reducing tariffs.  Chavez said July 17 that his government was mindful of the
risks entailed by joining Mercosur and vowed to protect local
companies from Argentine and Brazilian imports.  Still, that hasn’t stopped him from trumpeting his
ascension to Mercosur as a victory for Venezuelan diplomacy, and
a defeat for the U.S. after its attempt to broker a free trade
agreement stretching from  Alaska  to the tip of Patagonia broke
down in 2005.  “The U.S. empire has always wanted to isolate Venezuela,”
Chavez said in a televised address yesterday. “They never
wanted Venezuela to join Mercosur.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 