-- Tchenguiz Raids by Fraud Prosecutor Were Illegal, Court Says
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-07-31T15:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/tchenguiz-raids-by-fraud-prosecutor-were-illegal-court-says-2-.html
The U.K. Serious Fraud Office misled
a judge when it obtained search warrants for the offices of
property tycoons Vincent and  Robert Tchenguiz , a London court
said in a ruling criticizing the white-collar crime prosecutor.  The brothers had asked for the judge-led review of the
SFO’s conduct during its probe into loans made before the
collapse of Iceland’s Kaupthing Bank Hf. The SFO admitted making
errors in applying for arrest and search warrants.  “The investigation and prosecution of serious fraud in the
financial markets requires proper resources, both human and
financial,” Judges John Thomas and Stephen Silber said in a
decision this morning. “It is quite clear that the SFO did not
have such resources in the present case.”  The SFO, which said yesterday that it would proceed with a
probe into manipulation of the London interbank offered rate,
has been criticized by politicians over its handling of probes
and failure to bring cases in others. The Tchenguizes are
seeking about 100 million pounds ($157 million) in damages,
nearly three times the SFO’s annual  budget .  The brothers’ claim for damages will be decided in a
separate court, the judges said. They rejected Robert
Tchenguiz’s challenge to his arrest, saying police were entitled
to act on the information given to them by the SFO.  ‘Damning Indictment’  “Today’s judgment is a damning indictment of the
investigation conducted under the SFO’s previous director,”
Robert Tchenguiz said in a statement. He said he will pursue
damages for both the searches and arrests.  The fraud prosecutor reiterated in a statement that there
were problems with the investigation.  “The SFO had conceded that serious mistakes were made in
connection with the application,” the agency said in a
statement. The SFO has re-organized and made senior hires to
avoid repeating errors. It said it would continue its Kaupthing
probe with “renewed focus and vigor.”  The evidence presented by the SFO to the judge granting the
search warrants was “both unfair and unjustified,” Silber and
Thomas said in their ruling. If the initial judge had been given
all the facts, he wouldn’t have approved the raid.  Grant Thornton  Much of the evidence of possible wrongdoing was provided by
accountants  Grant Thornton  UK LLP, which as administrator to
Kaupthing was involved in civil lawsuits connected to the probe.
The judge should have been told the accounting firm had an
interest, Silber and Thomas said.  The SFO’s probe focused on what it said were suspicious
loans made to the Tchenguiz brothers by Kaupthing before it
collapsed at the height of the financial crisis in 2008. The
fraud investigator’s new director  David Green  dropped its
investigation into  Vincent Tchenguiz  in June, saying it no
longer considered him a suspect.  Grant Thornton spokeswoman Tori Dixon didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Vincent Tchenguiz, the chairman of Consensus Business
Group, said the “judicial review will result in far-reaching
changes in the law which will prevent others from suffering a
similar injustice in future.”  He said he will seek damages which “reflect the
substantial personal and business costs and losses that have
directly resulted from the actions of these parties.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  