-- Chevron Loses Bid for Order Ecuador Award Unenforceable
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-08-02T23:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/chevron-loses-bid-for-order-ecuador-award-unenforceable.html
(Corrects status of 2011 ruling on injunction in sixth
paragraph of story published July 31.)  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  failed to persuade a
federal judge in New York to find an $18.2 billion judgment by
an Ecuadorean court unenforceable.  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in Manhattan declined to
rule today on Chevron’s request, saying it remained to be seen
whether the judgment was based on fraudulent evidence. The  oil
company  is suing lawyers for Ecuadorean plaintiffs who claim
Chevron is responsible for pollution in the Amazon rainforest,
alleging they fabricated evidence in the case in violation of
racketeering laws.  Kaplan said the questions still to be resolved include
whether the judgment is enforceable under New York law.  The issues “retain undiminished vitality,” he said in the
97-page decision.  As part of his ruling, Kaplan found an expert report
recommending billions in damages against Chevron was potentially
fraudulent.  In March 2011, Chevron won an extension of a temporary
order barring enforcement of the judgment while the racketeering
case is litigated. That order was reversed by the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in Manhattan in January.  “This ruling clears the way for Chevron to challenge the
enforceability of the judgment in the Southern District of New
York,” Justin Higgs, a spokesman for San Ramon, California-
based Chevron, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Chevron ‘Setback’  Karen Hinton , U.S. spokeswoman for the Ecuadorean
plaintiffs, called Kaplan’s decision a “setback” for Chevron.  “Judge Kaplan’s refusal to rule that the  Ecuador  judgment
is unenforceable due to Chevron’s fabricated fraud charges is
consistent with the unanimous rulings of appellate courts in the
U.S. and Ecuador that Kaplan has no legal authority to block
enforcement of the Ecuador judgment,” Hinton said in an e-
mailed statement.  The racketeering case is Chevron v. Donziger, 11-00691,
U.S. District Court, District of New York (Manhattan). The case
in Ecuador is Aquinda v. Chevron, 002-2003, Superior Court of
Nueva Loja,  Lago Agrio , Ecuador.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  