-- Chicago Sees Smallest Budget Gap in Four Years After Cut
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-07-31T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/chicago-sees-smallest-budget-gap-in-four-years-after-cut.html
Chicago is forecasting its smallest
budget gap since 2009, and Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  says the city is
in a stronger financial position after making “tough but
necessary choices.”  The projection for the third-largest U.S. city, contained
in an annual financial analysis, forecasts a 2013 deficit of
$369 million, roughly half of what it was a year earlier.
Emanuel cut $410 million from the current-year budget of $6.3
billion through personnel reductions, health-care cost savings
and closing six mental-health clinics and three police stations.  “We are continuing to make the difficult but necessary
choices as we right the city’s financial ship and stabilize its
fiscal future,” Emanuel said in a statement accompanying the
report.  The deficit estimated for 2013 will widen to $466 million
in 2014 and to $580 million in 2015 without additional spending
reductions, according to the analysis. Emanuel is scheduled to
present next year’s spending plan to the City Council in
October.  Part of the city’s financial stress stems from “outsized
pension pressures,” unemployment and a home-foreclosure
backlog, according to Moody’s Investors Service, which assigned
a negative outlook on April 26 to the city’s general-obligation
debt.  While the ratings company said the Emanuel administration
has addressed infrastructure needs and reduced reliance on cash
reserves, failure to cut pensions costs will likely result in a
weakening of the city’s credit quality, Moody’s said.  Retirement costs will take up about 22 percent of the
city’s corporate budget by 2016 without changes to the system,
Emanuel told state lawmakers in May. His pension recommendations
include raising the  retirement age , phasing in higher employee
contributions and suspending cost-of-living payments.  Illinois Governor Pat Quinn yesterday called state
lawmakers into an Aug. 17 special session to consider changes to
the state’s pension system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  