-- Business Activity in U.S. Unexpectedly Grows at Faster Pace
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-07-31T14:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/chicago-ism-business-barometer-rose-to-53-7-in-july-from-52-9.html
-- Business activity in the U.S.
unexpectedly grew at a faster pace in July as the economy
weathered a slowdown in hiring and household spending.  A  barometer  from the Institute for Supply Management-
Chicago Inc. increased to 53.7, the highest since April from
52.9 in June. Readings greater than 50 signal growth. The median
forecast of 50 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected
the purchasing managers’ gauge would decline to 52.5.  The need to rebuild auto inventories may be giving a boost
to manufacturing, which had been a key driver of the economic
recovery. The  Federal Reserve  is meeting this week to determine
if more stimulus is needed as Europe’s fiscal crisis and the
threat of more than $600 billion in U.S. spending cuts and tax
increases at year’s end curbed demand.  Manufacturing is showing “modest improvement,’’  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist at UniCredit Group in  New York ,
said before today’s report. “It’s not great but it’s also not
that bad.’’  Projections in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 49 to 54.3.  Consumer spending  stagnated in June,  home prices  rose in
May from a month earlier and Americans gained confidence in
July, other reports today showed.  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the economy, were unchanged after a 0.1 percent decrease in May
that was previously reported as little changed, according to
figures from the Commerce Department. Americans used the biggest
gain in incomes in three months to boost savings, indicating a
weak handoff to the second half of the year.  Home Prices  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values in 20 cities
adjusted for seasonal variations  increased  0.9 percent in May,
the best performance since July 2009. The measure decreased 0.7
percent from May 2011, the smallest 12-month fall since
September 2010.  Consumer confidence  unexpectedly rose in July for the first
time in five months as Americans became more upbeat about job
prospects later this year. The Confidence Board’s index
increased to 65.9 from 62.7 in June, figures from the New York-
based private research group showed.  Stocks fell on a statement from the German  finance ministry 
that’s it’s holding no talks on the topic of giving Europe’s
bailout fund a banking license. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
fell 0.2 percent to 1,382.63 at 10:09 a.m. in New York.  National Index  Economists watch the Chicago index and regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the national
outlook. The group has said its membership includes
manufacturers and service providers with operations in the U.S.
and abroad, making the gauge a measure of overall growth.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s national factory
 index , which will be reported tomorrow, probably rose to 50.2 in
July from 49.7 the prior month, according to the median
projection in a Bloomberg survey. As in the Chicago survey, a
reading greater than 50 signals expansion.  The Chicago group’s index of new orders rose to 52.9 from
51.9, which was the lowest since September 2009. The employment
measure dropped to 53.3, the lowest level in a year, from 60.4
the prior month. The production gauge fell to 54.5 from 57.  The report continued to cloud the picture, adding to
regional readings this month. Similar measure from the
Philadelphia and Richmond Federal Reserve Banks showed areas
contracted last month, while the New York Fed’s report showed
activity picked up.  European Crisis  Joseph Craft, president of  Alliance Holdings GP LP (AHGP) , a coal
producer in Tulsa, Oklahoma, said while rising natural gas
prices are helping coal markets, the European crisis and
concerns about what action, if any, the  U.S. Congress  will take
on taxes and spending are causing customers to hold back
production and orders.  “Some people believe that everything will get delayed a
year and whoever wins the presidency will deal with it next year
without any major impact and others believe that politicians
will go off the cliff here and create all kinds of
consternations,” Craft said in a July 27 earnings call. “And
until I think we get clarity, you’re not going to see utilities
go out and start committing tonnage.”  The world’s largest economy grew at a 1.5 percent annual
rate in the second quarter, down from a 2 percent gain in the
previous three months, Commerce Department data showed last
week. Consumer spending also climbed at a 1.5 percent pace, the
weakest performance in a year.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues on the  Federal
Open Market Committee , who have pledged to keep the benchmark
 interest rate  low until late 2014, meet today and tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story: Lorraine Woellert in
 Washington  at   lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  