-- Chile’s Jobless Rate Unexpectedly Fell to 6.6% Through June
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-07-31T13:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/chile-s-jobless-rate-unexpectedly-fell-to-6-6-through-june-1-.html
Chile ´s  unemployment rate  fell to
6.6 percent in the three months through June after economists
forecast an increase, the National Statistics Institute said in
a report today.  The median estimate of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
was for the jobless rate to rise to 6.8 percent from 6.7 percent
in the three months through May. Unemployment was 7.2 percent in
the three months through June last year.  Policy makers have refrained from following  Brazil ’s lead
on monetary easing as they wait to see if the global slowdown
will cause jobs growth and inflation in Chile to ease. The labor
market remains tight and poses a risk to consumer prices even as
inflation rates have dropped below the bank target, policy
makers said in the minutes of this month’s meeting.  “The alternative of lowering the monetary policy rate was
ruled out this time, considering that output gaps and labor
market conditions were still tight, posing a latent risk with
respect to the medium-term inflation outlook,” according to the
minutes published on the bank website yesterday.  Chile’s two-year  interest rate  swap, which reflects
traders’ views of average borrowing costs, rose 12 basis points,
or 0.12 percentage point, to 4.65 percent yesterday, the biggest
increase since March 30.  The inflation rate in the world’s top copper producer has
dropped in the past four months, reaching 2.7 percent in June.
Policy makers, who target 3 percent inflation plus or minus 1
percentage point over two years, estimate inflation will close
the year at 2.7 percent.  Rate Forecast  The central bank board, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara, has kept the key interest rate at 5 percent for the
past six monthly meetings. The rate will fall to 4.75 percent by
November, according to the median estimate of 57 traders and
investors surveyed by the bank on July 24.  Brazil has lowered its benchmark rate by 450 basis points
since August to shield  Latin America ’s largest economy from the
 European debt crisis . Brazil’s economy will grow 2.15 percent
this year, less than half the rate of Chile’s 4.5 percent
expansion, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 