-- China Reiterates Growth Chief Priority
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-31T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/china-reiterates-growth-chief-priority.html
China ’s leaders pledged to keep
adjusting policies to ensure stable economic growth this year as
a state newspaper said some banks are telling branches to
provide local-government  loans .  “The ongoing pace of economic growth is within
expectations, but the external environment remains grim and
poses difficulties and challenges,” the official Xinhua News
Agency said yesterday, citing a meeting of the Communist Party’s
Politburo. The meeting also determined that maintaining stable
 growth  is still the top priority, Xinhua said.  The Politburo reiterated that China will pursue a
“prudent”  monetary  policy and “proactive” fiscal policy,
signaling that authorities are trying to stem a six-quarter
slowdown in the world’s largest economy without resorting to the
level of stimulus implemented after the global financial crisis.  “If the economic situation worsens, China can ease more,”
said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in  Hong Kong . Options include further reductions in banks’
reserve requirements and in benchmark  interest rates , he said.  Yesterday’s statement, while not representing a change in
policy wording, keeps options open for China to take additional
measures if needed, Zhang said.  China will probably retain the “prudent” monetary policy
stance through at least mid-2013, according to nine of 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News from July 24 to 30. Four
said China will alter its position this quarter and one said it
will change in the following three months.  Language Shift  The government adopted the “prudent” language in December
2010, changing from “moderately loose,” following one
interest-rate increase and preceding four more.  “At the end of the day, we have to watch what the
government will do instead of what it says,” Zhang said. Bank
credit is a key measure to monitor, he said.  The economy may be starting to pick up this quarter. A
manufacturing purchasing managers’  index  for July may have risen
to 50.5 from 50.2 in June, according to the median estimate of
24 economists before a government report due today. The yuan
strengthened the most in more than four months yesterday on
speculation policy makers worldwide will boost efforts to revive
global growth.  China’s current-account surplus widened to $59.7 billion in
the second quarter from $23.5 billion in the first quarter, data
from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange showed
yesterday. There was a certain degree of capital outflow in the
first half that didn’t signify a “massive withdrawal,” SAFE
said in a statement.  Fine-Tuning  Premier  Wen Jiabao  reiterated that China will put more
emphasis on stabilizing growth and intensify “fine-tuning”
while “unswervingly” implementing property controls and
preventing  home prices  from rebounding, Xinhua said in a
separate story about a meeting held July 26 with people outside
the Party. Downward pressure on the domestic economy is
relatively large and low global growth will persist for a
“fairly long period,” the report said, citing Wen.  China will use different monetary policy tools to ensure
stable growth in  money supply  and bank credit, Wen said.  Local bank branches are being instructed to give credit
support to province-level vehicles and those backed by China’s
100 richest counties, China Securities Journal said yesterday,
citing unidentified people. It didn’t identify any of the banks.
The newspaper is published by Xinhua.  Reducing Debts  Relaxing control of lending to local governments would mark
a shift in strategy as leaders try to boost economic growth that
slowed to the least in three years. China had been seeking to
reduce regional debts that ballooned to 10.7 trillion  yuan  ($1.7
trillion) on loans made in the aftermath of the global financial
crisis.  “Measures to increase public investment, to be financed
largely by bank credit, will be the most important ones in the
near term” to aid growth,  Wang Tao , a Hong Kong-based economist
at UBS AG, said in a research note yesterday.  At the same time, Chinese leaders are “keen to avoid
making a similar mistake” of using a credit boom to finance
another round of fiscal stimulus they in 2008-09, which “left
serious negative consequences” for the economy, Wang said.  Lending support will focus on roads, railways, natural gas
and clean energy projects, China Securities Journal said.  Economic Risks  “We must see with a clear mind that there are difficulties
and risks in the current economic situation that can’t be
underestimated,” Wen said, as cited by Xinhua. President  Hu Jintao  said China will try to diversify export markets and will
“expand and stabilize” employment, Xinhua reported.  The central government has cut interest rates twice since
early June, reduced banks’ reserve requirements three times
since November, sped approvals for investment projects and
boosted railway spending as economic growth decelerated. Some
cities are also increasing stimulus efforts, with Changsha last
week unveiling an 829 billion yuan investment plan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  