-- China Turns to German to Make Mao Hotel World Class
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-01T08:51:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/china-turns-to-german-to-make-mao-hotel-world-class.html
Four decades after  Richard Nixon  and
Zhou Enlai established a new era in  U.S.-China relations  with
the Shanghai Communique, the hotel that hosted their meeting is
tapping German management to turn a communist-era icon into a
luxury brand that can compete globally.  Bernold Schroeder, who helped build Banyan Tree into one of
Asia’s top upscale resort chains, was headhunted by state-owned
 Shanghai Jin Jiang International Hotels Group Co. (2006)  to create a
hotel brand in the ilk of Germany’s Kempinski and Hong Kong-
based Shangri-La. Its Shanghai properties include Jin Jiang
Hotel, which became a favorite of Nixon’s, and the iconic Peace
Hotel, a haven over the decades for celebrities visiting the
city, including  Charlie Chaplin  and playwright  Noel Coward .  “The risk is a 50-50 chance of success,” 45-year-old
Schroeder, chief executive officer of the unit that manages the
group’s luxury properties, said in an interview. “That’s why I
need a lot of passion. People believe we are still the best and
powerful because  Hillary Clinton  visited our hotel. That’s very
dangerous.”  Schroeder, who has been in the role for a year, has some
challenges to overcome: his employer is effectively the
Communist Party and business decisions need to be handled with
sensitivity, while commitment to service is more lax in China
than in other parts of the world. At the same time, China has
the second-lowest occupancy rates in Asia, and global chains,
including Hilton Worldwide Inc., are expanding in the world’s
third-largest tourism destination.  Shedding Image  “The company wanted to get rid of a lot of state-owned-
enterprise image,” said Schroeder in the interview at the Jin
Jiang Hotel, which once hosted late Chinese leader  Mao Zedong 
and is located in the city’s former French Concession district.
“In the hospitality industry you don’t depend on hardware --
it’s about people, it’s about perfect service. The number-one
thing that has to change is the people and that’s the most
difficult. That’s why I always said we need eight to 10 years.”  Jin Jiang has more than 123,000 rooms across 40 cities in
China, making it the country’s biggest hotel company, according
to Macquarie Group Ltd. and broker CBRE Group Inc.  The company reopened the 83-year-old Peace Hotel on
Shanghai’s Bund promenade, overlooking the Huangpu River, in
2010 after a three-year renovation. The hotel, whose famous Jazz
Bar hosted former U.S. Presidents  Jimmy Carter  and  Ronald
Reagan , was renamed Fairmont Peace Hotel when the  management
contract  went to Toronto-based Fairmont Hotels & Resorts Inc.,
which runs the Savoy in London.  Cathay Hotel  The hotel was first opened as the Cathay Hotel, owned by a
Jewish businessman who made his fortune trading opium and
weapons, according to its website. Coward wrote the play
“Private Lives” while convalescing from influenza there in
1929.  Nixon signed the document that paved the way for
normalizing relations between the two nations in the Jin Jiang
Hotel’s Grand Hall in 1972. The U.S. delegation stayed there and
Nixon developed a fondness for the establishment.  Jin Jiang plans to open its first hotel outside China by
2014 in one of the world’s capital cities, targeting a mixture
of Chinese and international travelers, Schroeder said,
declining to disclose the location. The company has a 50 percent
stake in the U.S. hotel chain Interstate Hotels & Resorts Inc.  Schroeder spent 14 years with Singapore-based Banyan Tree
Holdings Ltd., where he was senior vice president and managing
director of hotel operations, before he joined Jin Jiang. As he
did at Banyan Tree, he sticks a pin on a map of the world in his
office every time the company opens a new hotel.  Comfort Zone  He concedes one of his biggest challenges as CEO of Jin
Jiang International Hotel Management Co., the unit that manages
the group’s luxury properties, is how to develop a global hotel
brand that is quintessentially Chinese.  “When Chinese go international, they want to be in a
certain comfort zone,” he said. “I want them to stay in a Jin
Jiang hotel when they go to New York or Paris, which is already
a very stressful journey.”  Schroeder, who attended executive programs at  Cornell
University ,  Singapore Management University  and  Kellogg School 
of Management at  Northwestern University , also worked for Hyatt
Hotels Corp. in New York and the  Holiday Inn  in  Hong Kong .  Shanghai Tower  Jin Jiang, through a venture with Shanghai Tower
Development Co., is developing the world’s highest hotel, which
is set to open in 2015.  The 258-room Shanghai Tower J-Hotel will occupy the 84th to
the 110th floors of the 121-story building, the group said in
2010. The 632-meter Shanghai Tower in the Pudong business hub is
set to be the world’s second-tallest building when construction
is completed in 2014. Dubai’s Burj Khalifa is the world’s
tallest building, and the Ritz-Carlton in Hong Kong is currently
the world’s highest hotel.  Schroeder’s vision for the J-Hotel brand is modeled on
Munich-based Kempinski AG’s five-star Hotel Adlon Kempinski,
which overlooks Berlin’s  Brandenburg Gate  and is frequented by
dignitaries and pop stars, including the late  Michael Jackson ,
who dangled his baby over the balcony there in 2002.  “It’s the showcase of Jin Jiang,” Schroeder said. “Our J
should be like the Adlon because nobody knows that Adlon is
actually a Kempinski hotel. Everybody knows Adlon, Brandenburg
Gate. When we go international, we have to create something like
Shangri-La in Paris, the hotel which has a strong Asian feel
combined with a sense of class.”  Shangri-La Asia  Both  Shangri-La Asia Ltd. (69)  and Shanghai Jin Jiang
International trade on the Hong Kong stock exchange. Jin Jiang
 shares  fell 1 percent to HK$1.01 at the local close.  The number of China’s outbound travelers will reach 100
million by 2020, according to estimates from the United Nations
World Tourism Organization.  Hotel occupancy rate in the world’s most populous nation
stood at 61.9 percent in June, rising 0.7 percent from the same
period a year earlier and the second lowest among 15 Asian
markets after India, according to  STR Global , a consulting and
research group. This compares with 70.3 percent in the U.S. and
85.9 percent in Singapore in June.  Revenue per available room, or revpar, rose 5.7 percent to
$93.26 in Asia in the first half, compared to an increase of 7.2
percent to $65.81 in the Americas, according to STR.  China Expansion  China overtook Spain in 2010 to become the world’s third-
most-visited travel destination, trailing behind France and the
U.S., based on United Nations World Tourism Organization data.  International operators such as Hilton and Marriott
International Inc. have been expanding in China. Marriott plans
to double the number of hotels in China by 2014 to meet growing
demand, Asia-Pacific Chief Operations Officer  Craig Smith  said
in an April interview in Shanghai.  “You have a lot of great hotels in China, especially from
foreign competitors, but they don’t have heart and soul in many
of them,” said Schroeder. “If we cannot change people to a
proper service culture, to put heart and soul into it like in
the old days -- we called it inn-keeper, somebody who loved to
serve -- then we cannot turn around the product.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  