-- Christie Defends Jobs Awarded to Rejected Court Nominees
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-07-31T18:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/christie-defends-jobs-awarded-to-rejected-court-nominees.html
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie
defended the hiring of his two rejected state Supreme Court
nominees for government jobs, saying experience, not patronage,
got them their new positions.  Bruce Harris , who would have been the state’s first openly
gay justice, was named general counsel of the New Jersey
Turnpike Authority in a 6-0 board vote today, said  Tom Feeney ,
an agency spokesman. Phillip Kwon, who would have been the first
Asian-American to serve, began yesterday as first deputy general
counsel for the  Port Authority  of  New York  and New Jersey, said
Steve Coleman, a spokesman for the bi-state agency.  “The Port Authority is lucky to have him -- the same with
Bruce Harris,” Christie, 49, a first-term Republican, told
reporters today in Hackensack.  Harris, 61, is a finance attorney and the Republican mayor
of Chatham. Kwon, 45, of Closter, had been  New Jersey ’s first
assistant attorney general and was previously a federal
prosecutor. Both were rejected for the high court by Democrats,
who control both houses of the Legislature.  The Senate Judiciary Committee voted 7-6 against Kwon on
March 22 after Democrats questioned a $160,000 payment his
family made to settle a U.S. civil lawsuit over cash deposits
from their liquor store.  The panel voted the same away against Harris’s nomination
on May 31. An advocate of gay marriage, Harris said during the
hearing that he would remove himself from the issue if it came
before the court.  “It’s not like it’s an old buddy that I’m putting into a
job,” Christie said of Harris. “This is a guy I recently met
and was impressed with. He’s an outstanding lawyer and he will
do a great job at the Turnpike.”  Harris’s new position, which pays $165,000 a year, had been
vacant “for well over a year,” Feeney said in a telephone
interview. Coleman, in a telephone interview, said he didn’t
know Kwon’s salary.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  