-- Chrysler Reports $436 Million Second-Quarter Profit
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-07-31T10:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/chrysler-reports-436-million-second-quarter-profit.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker
controlled by  Fiat SpA (F) , reported second-quarter net income of
$436 million as the company plans to extend gains in passenger-
car sales with the new Dodge Dart compact.  The quarterly profit compared with a year-earlier loss of
$370 million, the  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based company said
yesterday in a  statement . Chrysler’s second-quarter 2011 results
included a one-time $551 million cost for repaying government
loans. Sales increased 23 percent to $16.8 billion.  Chrysler affirmed its forecast that net income will rise to
about $1.5 billion this year, buoying results for its Turin,
Italy-based majority owner as  Europe ’s debt crisis sends sales
in the region to a fifth-consecutive drop. Chrysler’s U.S. sales
of passenger cars surged 42 percent during the second quarter
from a year earlier, driven by demand for 200 and 300 sedans,
according to researcher Autodata Corp.  “Chrysler really has hit the ball out of the park here in
the first half, gaining additional market share in the U.S.,”
Richard Hilgert, an analyst for Morningstar Equity Research,
said in a telephone interview before the results were released.  The results “could mean potential upside” for Fiat’s
earnings, Hilgert, who is based in  Chicago , said in an e-mail
after Chrysler’s statement.  The Italian automaker may say that earnings before
interest, taxes and one-time items, which it calls trading
 profit , surged 82 percent to 957.8 million euros ($1.17 billion)
for the second quarter, the average estimate of four analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Shares Drop  Fiat shares  traded  down 6 cents, or 1.3 percent, to 4.13
euros as of 12:28 p.m. in Milan today, ahead of the carmaker’s
earnings release later this afternoon. The shares have climbed
16 percent this year.  “When Fiat reports its numbers, we will see how better
cash generation at Chrysler will translate into the group net
debt figure,” said Erich Hauser, an analyst with Credit Suisse
in  London . Chrysler results were below his estimates, he said.  Chrysler reported it had $12.1 billion in cash at the end
of the quarter, up from $11.3 billion as of March 31. Net
industrial debt dropped to $432 million from $1.3 billion at the
end of the first quarter.  Chrysler’s car sales gains probably will continue in the
second half because of the Dart, which will reach full inventory
at dealers by September, Hilgert said.  “Our portfolio became more balanced with our car mix
increasing on a year-over-year basis, showing that our car
offerings are becoming more competitive,”  Sergio Marchionne ,
chief executive officer of Chrysler and Fiat, said in an
e-mail to employees. “We are building on this trend, as the
all-new Dodge Dart began arriving at dealerships during the
second quarter.”  Merger Plans  Marchionne plans to merge the two companies and increase
sales to more than 100 billion euros by 2014. Fiat will boost
its ownership stake of Chrysler to 61.8 percent by exercising an
option to buy an additional 3.3 percent from the United Auto
Workers’ retiree health-care trust, or VEBA, the company said in
a July 3  statement .  An initial public offering for Chrysler is unlikely to be a
2012 event, “if it’s an event at all,” Marchionne said on an
April 26 conference call. The slump in financial markets and
valuations of competing automakers make it unlikely that Fiat
and the VEBA, which owns the remainder of Chrysler, will reach
an agreement clearing the way for a full merger of the
automakers in the near term, Morningstar’s Hilgert said.  “With the markets being where they are at this point and
auto stocks not really being at the  valuations  that we saw maybe
a year and a half ago or so, the two probably aren’t going to
meet at this point in terms of valuation,” he said.  300 Sedan  Chrysler Group’s total U.S. sales rose 30 percent from a
year earlier to 834,068 cars and light trucks during the first
half, according to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata.
Sales of the Chrysler brand’s 200 more than doubled and 300
sedans almost tripled in the first half from a year earlier.  The company topped the industry’s 15 percent increase,
boosted by demand for redesigned or refreshed models such as the
Jeep Grand Cherokee sport-utility vehicle. Chrysler’s U.S.
market share rose 1.4 percentage points from a year earlier to
11.5 percent, Autodata said.  Fiat’s first-quarter operating losses in Europe almost
doubled to 207 million euros. Marchionne said this month that
the company will shut another plant in  Italy  after closing one
in Sicily last year unless it can come up with a viable plan to
use excess capacity to build cars for  North America . Fiat has
delayed the introduction of new models in Europe and is cutting
investment in the region by 500 million euros.  Chrysler probably will continue to offset slumping results
for Fiat “at least through 2013” because of Europe’s market
conditions and Italy’s austerity measures, Hilgert said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  