-- Ziggo Investors Raise Share Sale to as Much as $923 Million
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-07-31T09:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/cinven-warburg-increase-ziggo-sale-to-raise-up-to-923-million.html
  Warburg Pincus  LLC and Cinven Ltd.
may raise as much as 752 million euros ($923 million) after
expanding a stake sale in Dutch cable company  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO)  because
of “strong” investor demand.  Cinven, Warburg Pincus and allied investors have sold 29
million shares for 23.50 euros a piece, resulting in cash
proceeds of 681.5 million euros, they said in a press release
today. There is an over-allotment option for as many as 3
million additional shares. Initially the investors planned to
sell about 18 million shares, with an over-allotment option of
about 2 million shares.  “This placing demonstrates the high level of institutional
support for the stock and the company’s successful growth
strategy,” said Joseph Schull, head of Warburg Pincus in
 Europe .  Cinven is making about 2.7 times its investment after the
listing in March and today’s share sales, according to an e-
mailed statement. Warburg Pincus is making more than four times
because it invested earlier in the cable company, according to a
person familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified
because the matter is private.  After the completion of the transaction, assuming no
exercise of the over-allotment option, the investors will
jointly own about 58.4 percent of the Ziggo capital.  “The good thing about this is that the free float will
increase,” said Jeffrey Vonk, an Amsterdam-based analyst at
ING. Some investors have steered clear of Ziggo because of the
limited number of shares available to the public, said Vonk, who
has a buy recommendation on the stock.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley are joint global
coordinators of the sale and Deutsche Bank AG, UBS AG and Nomura
Holdings Inc. are acting as joint bookrunners.  Ziggo shares fell 2.5 percent to 24.14 euros at 10:34 a.m.
in Amsterdam, giving the company a market value of 4.82 billion
euros. They have  gained  30 percent since their March initial
public offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  