-- Coach Tumbles Most Since 2001 as North American Sales Slow
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-07-31T20:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/coach-revenue-trails-estimates-as-north-american-growth-slows.html
Coach Inc. (COH) , the largest U.S. luxury
handbag maker, tumbled the most in almost 11 years after
reporting fiscal fourth-quarter revenue that trailed analysts’
estimates amid slowing sales growth in  North America .  Coach  fell  19 percent to $49.33 at the close in New York,
for the biggest drop since Sept. 17, 2001. The shares have
declined 19 percent this year.  Sales at North American stores open at least a year
advanced 1.7 percent, compared with a gain of 10 percent a year
earlier.  Jennifer Davis , an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets,
projected an increase of 5 percent. Coach, facing competition
from  Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. (KORS)  and brands such as  Tory Burch 
and  Kate Spade , is working to attract consumers who have curbed
spending on discretionary purchases amid slow economic growth.  “People are disappointed with the North American
comparable sales,” Davis said in a telephone interview today.
“The slowdown exacerbates concern that Coach might be losing
market share in the U.S.”  Davis, based in New York, recommends buying the shares.  Coach’s revenue in the quarter ended June 30 advanced 12
percent to $1.16 billion, the New York-based company said today
in a statement. Analysts projected $1.2 billion, the average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Consumer Spending  Consumer spending in the U.S. stagnated last month as
incomes increased. Household purchases, which account for about
70 percent of the economy, were unchanged in June after a 0.1
percent decrease the prior month, according to a Commerce
Department report today.  Coach said “an increasingly promotional environment”
prompted slower-than-expected growth at its factory outlets. The
company reinstituted discount coupons late in the quarter.  The outlets were “entirely responsible” for the sales
deceleration, Chief Executive Officer Lew Frankfort said on a
conference call today.  Net income in the quarter rose 24 percent to $251.4
million, or 86 cents a share, from $202.5 million, or 68 cents,
a year earlier, Coach said today. Analysts projected 85 cents a
share, the average of 26  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  