-- Coal Industry Wins Challenge to EPA Water Standards
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-01T04:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/coal-industry-wins-challenge-to-epa-water-standards.html
The coal industry won a court ruling
that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency water-quality
standards infringed on state authority to regulate surface
mining.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  in  Washington  yesterday
said the EPA exceeded its authority by issuing a so-called final
guidance in 2011 that asked states to consider conductivity
levels of stream water when issuing mining permits.  The National Mining Association filed one of four lawsuits
challenging the EPA guidance.  West Virginia  and  Kentucky  also
sued.  “Today’s decision has truly given coal miners and coal
mining communities their ‘day in court’ and has affirmed NMA’s
longstanding belief that EPA overreached its authority in its
virtual moratorium on Eastern coal mining permits and denied
those operations the protections provided for under the law,”
Hal Quinn, president and chief executive officer of the
association, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The ruling sets aside the Obama administration policy
issued July 2011 that the agency said was aimed at protecting
stream water from the hazards of mountaintop-removal coal mining
in Appalachia. The policy was established to ensure consistent
and timely review of surface coal-mining permits under the  Clean
Water Act  and other statutes, according to the agency.  The mountaintop-removal technique produces millions of tons
of crushed shale and sandstone that is dumped in valleys and
streams. Rainwater flowing through the debris carries dissolved
metals into the water, a potentially harmful mix for humans and
wildlife, the EPA has said.  Alisha Johnson, a spokeswoman for the agency, said the EPA
is reviewing the decision.  EPA Authority  Emma Cheuse, a lawyer for the environmental group
Earthjustice, said in a statement that the decision recognized
the EPA’s authority to set rules to protect waterways.  “It is essential for both EPA and state agencies charged
with protecting communities to follow the science, and they must
do everything possible under the law to prevent the irreversible
destruction of mountaintop removal mining,” Cheuse said.  The lead case is National Mining Association v. Jackson,
10-1220, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  