-- Colombia Bond Yields Fall to Record Low After Surprise Rate Cut
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-07-31T18:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/colombia-bond-yields-fall-to-record-low-after-surprise-rate-cut.html
Colombia’s peso bonds rose, pushing
yields on benchmark securities to a record low for a second
straight day, after the central bank unexpectedly cut  interest
rates  last week for the first time since 2010.  The yield on Colombia’s 9.25 percent peso-denominated debt
due in May 2014 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 5.39 percent, extending its monthly decrease to 30 basis
points, according to the central bank. The yield is the lowest
on a closing basis since the securities were first issued in
2009. The price rose 0.0210 centavo to 106.3660 centavos per
peso today.  “Bonds have been rallying after the rate cut,” said
Alejandro Reyes, the head analyst at Ultrabursatiles SA
brokerage in Bogota.  The central bank’s seven-member board, led by bank chief
Jose Dario Uribe, voted to lower the overnight lending rate by a
quarter-percentage point to 5 percent on July 27, surprising 24
of 35 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, who had predicted no
change. While all members voted for a rate reduction, some
members wanted a bigger cut, according to the statement
following the decision.  Colombia ’s central bank published a  resolution  on its
website yesterday adding bonds issued by Banco de la Republica
to the list of assets that can be used to back repurchase
agreements auctioned by the bank.  Reducing Liquidity  That follows a resolution published on the central bank’s
website April 30 that stated that Banco de la Republica can
issue debt to lower the amount of local currency in circulation.
The bank hasn’t said if it plans to issue bonds.  Speculation that the central bank will offer its own debt
to reduce liquidity in the market may ease gains in short-term
securities, according to Reyes.  “The central bank may need to issue bonds if it plans to
increase its dollar purchases,” Reyes said. “That may mean an
increased supply of short-term debt if that is what they finally
issue.”  While Uribe reiterated on July 27 that the central bank
will buy a minimum of $20 million daily in the  spot market  until
at least Nov. 2, Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said in
a W Radio interview yesterday that policy makers are considering
a boost in the purchases.  The peso erased earlier gains, declining 0.1 percent to
1,792.20 per  U.S. dollar . The currency has dropped 0.5 percent
this month, paring its rally this year to 8.2 percent, still the
best performance among all of the world’s counterparts tracked
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 Bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  