-- Colombia Central Bank Forecasts 2013 GDP Growth of 2%-5%
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-07-31T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/colombia-central-bank-forecasts-2013-gdp-growth-of-2-5-.html
Colombia ’s central bank sees a
slower and more uncertain rate of economic growth next year, as
European debt turmoil creates a volatile market for the
country’s  oil , coal, coffee, gold and nickel exports.  The economy will grow 2 percent to 5 percent in 2013,
compared to a forecast of 3 percent to 5 percent this year,
central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe said in a speech in Bogota
yesterday. The Colombian economy’s long-term potential growth
rate is between 4 percent and 5 percent, he added.  “In the second quarter, the euro area is contracting and
growth in the U.S. remains weak,” Uribe said in a speech in
Bogota. The global slowdown has “restricted the growth of the
Colombian economy through lower external demand and lower prices
for its principal exports,” he said.  The central bank last week cut  interest rates  for the first
time since 2010 after policy makers were surprised by the
economy’s loss of momentum amid the world downturn. Traders
expect at least one more interest rate cut over the next three
months, trading in interest rate swaps shows.  Inflation could accelerate at the start of next year and
peak in the second quarter if the El Nino weather phenomenon
causes a temporary spike in food prices, Uribe said. This year,
inflation will continue to slow and will end the year close to
the 3 percent mid-point of its target range, according to the
central bank’s forecasts.  ‘Measures’  Last week’s quarter-point rate cut, which was  forecast  by
just 11 of 35 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, pushed borrowing
costs to 5 percent. Some board members argued for a half-point
cut.  If the interest rate cut leads to an acceleration in
 consumer credit , either the central bank or the country’s
financial watchdog will “take measures,” Uribe said.  Credit expanded 18.3 percent in May from a year earlier,
down from year-on-year growth of 22.4 percent in December.  Industrial output fell for a third straight month in May
from a year earlier, while year-on-year export growth slowed to
1.2 percent, from 4 percent in April and 16.1 percent in March.  The yield on three-month interest-rate  swaps  fell 28 basis
points, or 0.28 percentage point, to 4.75 percent this week,
indicating traders expect an interest rate cut within the next
three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.com . 