-- Consumer Spending in U.S. Was Unchanged in June
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-07-31T21:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/consumer-spending-in-u-s-was-unchanged-in-june.html
Consumer spending  in the U.S.
stagnated in June as labor-market weakness prompted Americans to
use the biggest gain in incomes in three months to build
savings.  Household purchases, which make up 70 percent of the
economy, were unchanged last month after a 0.1 percent decline
in May, a Commerce Department report showed today in  Washington .
The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists
called for a 0.1 percent rise. Incomes climbed 0.5 percent,
lifting the  saving rate  to 4.4 percent, the highest in a year.  Americans may be growing less pessimistic about job
prospects later in the year, with another report today showing
 consumer confidence  rose unexpectedly for the first time in five
months. Federal Reserve policy makers meeting today and tomorrow
may wait for more employment data before deciding whether action
is needed to boost an economy that’s slowed for two straight
quarters.  “There’s been some back-tracking in the labor market so
consumers are choosing to save the income rather than spend
it,” said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at
BNP Paribas in  New York , who correctly projected the stagnation
in purchases. “The third quarter will be pretty subdued.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.4 percent to
1,379.32 at the close of trading in New York. The yield on the
10-year Treasury note dropped to 1.47 percent from 1.50 percent
late yesterday as Europe’s debt crisis underpinned demand for
the safest securities.  Unemployment in Europe  The jobless rate in the euro area reached the highest on
records dating to 1995 as the debt crisis and deepening economic
slump prompted companies to cut jobs. Unemployment in the
economy of the 17 nations using the euro reached a revised 11.2
percent in May and held at that level in June, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.  The crisis is also taking a toll in  Asia . Taiwan’s economy
unexpectedly shrank, South Korean output fell and a Japanese
manufacturing gauge reached the lowest level since immediately
after the 2011 earthquake, according to reports today.  Other data in the U.S. showed that a gauge of business
activity unexpectedly rose in July, and  home prices  declined
less than forecast in the year ended in May.  Projections for personal spending among the 76 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg ranged from a drop of 0.1 percent to a
gain of 0.4 percent. The May reading was previously reported as
unchanged.  Losing Steam  The June results indicate the consumer was losing steam as
the quarter drew to a close. Household spending rose 1.5 percent
from April through June, the slowest pace in a year, according
to government data last week. Gross domestic product also
climbed at a 1.5 percent annual rate, cooling from a 2 percent
pace in the prior three months.  Retail sales fell in June for a third straight month, the
longest period of declines since 2008. Same-store purchases rose
less than analysts’ estimates at chains like  Target Corp. (TGT)  and
 Macy’s Inc. (M)   Coach Inc., the largest U.S. luxury handbag maker, today
reported fiscal fourth-quarter revenue that trailed analysts’
estimates. Sales at North American stores open at least a year
advanced 1.7 percent, compared with a gain of 10 percent a year
earlier.  Adjusting consumer spending for inflation, which renders
the figures used to calculate gross domestic product, purchases
dropped 0.1 percent, the most since August, after a 0.1 percent
increase in the previous month, today’s report showed.  Gaining Confidence  The Conference Board’s index of consumer  confidence 
increased to 65.9 this month from 62.7 in June. Economists
projected a reading of 61.5, according to the median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey.  The report showed a gain in the share of consumers
anticipating better labor and economic conditions in six months.
A pickup in the housing market and decreases in fuel prices may
also be helping sustain consumer sentiment.  “Despite this month’s improvement in confidence, the
overall index remains at historically low levels,”  Lynn Franco ,
director of economic indicators at the Conference Board, said in
a statement.  The confidence figures contrast other data on consumer
sentiment. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell in the week
ended July 22 to minus 38.5, the lowest level in two months. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final July index of
consumer sentiment was the weakest this year.  Outlook Improving  The Conference Board’s measure of present conditions
decreased to 46.2 from 46.6 in June. The measure of expectations
for the next six months increased to 79.1 from 73.4 in June.  The percent of respondents expecting more jobs to become
available in the next six months rose to 17.6 from 14.8 the
previous month. The share of consumers who said jobs are
currently plentiful fell to 7.8 percent from 8.3 percent. Those
who said jobs weren’t plentiful rose to 51.4 percent from 50.5
percent.  Another report showed housing prices are stabilizing. The
S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values decreased 0.7 percent
in May from a year earlier, data from the group showed in New
York.  A business barometer from the Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. increased to 53.7, the highest since
April. Readings greater than 50 signal growth.  Fed ChairmanBen S. Bernanke will probably forgo announcing
a third round of large-scale asset purchases this week, and is
more likely to wait until September to unveil plans to buy $600
billion in housing and government debt, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Fed Policy  Eighty-eight percent of economists say the  Federal Open
Market Committee  will refrain from starting new purchases at a
two-day meeting beginning today in Washington. Forty-eight
percent say the FOMC will announce the buying at its Sept. 12-13
meeting, according to the July 25-27 survey of 58 economists.  Progress in reducing the jobless rate probably will be
“frustratingly slow,” Bernanke told lawmakers in testimony
this month. He also said the central bank is “prepared to take
further action as appropriate to promote a stronger economic
recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  