-- Corzine Wasn’t Too Close with CFTC Chief, Review Finds
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-07-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/corzine-wasn-t-too-close-with-cftc-chief-review-finds.html
They crossed paths at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , the  U.S. Senate ,  New Jersey  campaign events and
Princeton University. One man once borrowed the other’s number
in the  New York  Marathon.  Still, Jon S. Corzine, the former chairman and chief
executive officer of failed brokerage  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ,
and  Gary Gensler , chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, didn’t have a close relationship, an internal
analysis by CFTC lawyers found. They didn’t attend each other’s
weddings, Corzine didn’t go to the bat mitzvahs of Gensler’s
daughters and they haven’t socialized together in 14 years.  The agency’s review of Gensler’s links to Corzine and other
MF Global executives culminated in a 15-page “confidential
memorandum” dated Dec. 13. The lawyers, who interviewed only
Gensler, concluded that the chairman’s Nov. 8 decision to recuse
himself from the agency’s probe of MF Global wasn’t necessary.  “From a legal and ethical perspective, Chairman Gensler’s
participation in commission matters involving MFGI would not be
improper,” Dan M. Berkovitz, general counsel and ethics
officer, and John P. Dolan, counsel and alternate ethics
official, concluded in the memo.  The review, a copy of which was obtained through a public
records request, was conducted while Gensler and the CFTC were
under criticism from lawmakers for their oversight of MF Global,
which sought  bankruptcy protection  Oct. 31. The failure, along
with the recent collapse of Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,
undermined confidence in the futures industry and has spurred
calls for new regulations.  Lawmaker Complaints  Some in Congress have complained that Gensler’s recusal
made it harder for them to monitor the agency’s actions.  “From our standpoint, we want a person to come before us
and answer the hard questions,” Senator Mike Johanns, a
Nebraska Republican, told Gensler at a Senate Banking Committee
hearing Dec. 6. “That’s what your job is about. And it just
feels to me like you’re not discharging the responsibilities of
that job.”  The CFTC, alongside the Securities and Exchange Commission
and  Justice Department , has spent nine months investigating the
collapse of MF Global and a resulting $1.6 billion gap in
customer funds. Jill E. Sommers, a Republican commissioner, was
named the senior member to oversee the investigation, and
frequently testifies to Congress in Gensler’s place. The
government hasn’t filed claims or charges.  Gensler, who worked for 18 years at Goldman Sachs and rose
to become co-head of finance before leaving in 1997, was already
thinking about the appearance of a conflict of interest when he
joined the CFTC. In 2009, Gensler “determined not to
participate in any CFTC matters involving GS,” referring to the
Wall Street bank, according to the agency review.  ‘A Distraction’  On Nov. 3, agency lawyers told Gensler he didn’t need to
withdraw from the MF Global investigation. Gensler decided the
same day to recuse himself anyway. In a Nov. 8 statement,
Gensler said that he didn’t want “my participation to be in any
way a distraction in this important matter.”  The agency’s lawyers decided to produce a written
justification for their opinion for the record,  Steve Adamske , a
CFTC spokesman, said yesterday. Adamske said the lawyers based
their analysis on an interview with Gensler and said he didn’t
know of additional interviews with Corzine or others named in
the memo.  Steven Goldberg, a New York-based spokesman for Corzine,
declined to comment.  Early Partners  The December memo produced by the lawyers describes an
overlapping set of business and political relationships, while
not revealing close personal ties with any of five people
related to MF Global.  Gensler, 54, and Corzine, 65, were among between 100 and
200 Goldman Sachs partners in the early 1990s, working together
on the trading floor of the bank’s fixed-income division.  In January 1993, Corzine asked Gensler to serve as co-head
of fixed-income trading in the  Tokyo  office, which made Corzine
one of Gensler’s direct supervisors. “Their relationship during
this period was solely professional,” the memo said.  Between 1995 and 1997, Gensler, then in New York, was co-
head of finance, reporting to Corzine and  Henry Paulson . In all,
Corzine spent 24 years at Goldman Sachs, rising to co-head of
the firm with Paulson, who later became President  George W. Bush ’s Treasury secretary.  After Gensler and Corzine left Goldman, they had infrequent
discussions, according to the memo. Corzine, a Democrat elected
as U.S. senator from New Jersey and later governor of the state,
occasionally spoke with Gensler in 2002, when Gensler was
serving as an adviser to lawmakers drafting the  Sarbanes-Oxley
Act . They stood together on the Senate floor as lawmakers moved
toward final passage.  Washington Fundraiser  In the following years, Gensler and Corzine saw each other
at political events, including a 2005 fundraiser in  Washington 
at which Gensler contributed $10,000 to the New Jersey State
Democratic Party. Gensler was a host, according to the memo.  Corzine was named head of MF Global in March 2010 and began
to remake the futures brokerage firm into a smaller version of
an investment bank, much like Goldman Sachs. Shortly after,
Corzine and Gensler had a “meet and greet” at the headquarters
of the CFTC, the primary U.S. derivatives regulator that was
four months away from winning new authority to regulate swaps
under the Dodd-Frank Act. Corzine didn’t make any requests
Gensler could remember, according to the memo.  In November 2010, Corzine introduced Gensler at a seminar
at  Princeton University  in New Jersey. They both attended dinner
later that day with 15 or 20 students. In June 2011, the two sat
at the same table during a lunch at a Sandler O’Neill and
Partners conference held in New York, the memo said. Corzine
didn’t invite Gensler, the keynote speaker at the conference.  ‘An Adjustment’  While Corzine and Gensler didn’t personally discuss any
issues related to MF Global, according to the memo, Corzine said
at the conference that MF Global might exit the derivatives
clearing business if the CFTC completed a rule limiting how
brokers invested client funds. “If it comes out exactly as
written, we’re going to have to make an adjustment, no question
about it. It will be costly,” Corzine told the conference.  The next month, Corzine and Gensler were on a telephone
conference call about the rule. Gensler has said he didn’t
provide preferential treatment to MF Global or Corzine through
delayed consideration of the rule.  “I’ve been consistent on this rule, and I allowed more
time for others to continue to look at it,” Gensler told
reporters on Nov. 7. The agency on Dec. 5 completed the
regulation, which members of the CFTC dubbed the “MF rule.”  Not ‘Special’  “I do not believe we were given special treatment,”
Corzine testified at a Dec. 15 House Financial Services
Committee hearing.  Aside from crossing paths at such professional gatherings,
Corzine and Gensler haven’t socialized in more than 14 years,
according to the memo. Gensler doesn’t have Corzine’s personal
number among his cell phone contacts, and Gensler couldn’t
remember exchanging e-mails with Corzine for at least a decade.  “Chairman Gensler and Mr. Corzine have never attended any
of each other’s major non-professional life-events,” the
lawyers wrote. Corzine didn’t attend Gensler’s wedding which
occurred while Gensler was at Goldman Sachs; Corzine didn’t
attend the bat-mitzvahs of Gensler’s three daughters. And
Gensler didn’t attend Corzine’s wedding in 2010.  Marathon Men  The memo even explored why Gensler ran the New York
Marathon with Corzine’s number more than 20 years ago. According
to the report, Gensler learned that Corzine had registered to
run the 1991 race. Gensler asked Corzine’s secretary if Corzine
was actually going to run. Several weeks later, the secretary
informed Gensler that Corzine had decided against running and
wouldn’t need the number, the memo said. The secretary gave the
number to Gensler.  The electronic archives of the New York Road Runners don’t
list a marathon result for Gensler or Corzine in 1991. In 1992,
Corzine is listed as running the marathon in four hours, 21
minutes. In 1996, Gensler is listed as running the marathon in
three hours, 34 minutes.  The CFTC analysis also reviewed Gensler’s relationship with
Bradley I. Abelow, president and chief operating officer at MF
Global and who also worked with Gensler at Goldman, and Laurie R. Ferber, general counsel at MF Global and also a former
Goldman employee. Gensler didn’t have frequent conversations
with either, the analysis found.  The review then looked into Gensler’s relationship with J.  Christopher Flowers , an investor in MF Global who recruited
Corzine to lead the brokerage. Gensler and Flowers worked at
Goldman’s mergers and acquisitions department for 12 years. They
frequently discussed mergers, but dealt with different
industries and didn’t work on the same deals, according to
Gensler’s interview with the lawyers.  Financial Distress  Gensler and Flowers didn’t have a social relationship, the
memo said. Flowers called Gensler twice at the CFTC, including
on the day of MF Global’s bankruptcy. Several other CFTC
employees were present when Gensler returned the call.  As MF Global grappled publicly with financial distress,
Gensler was also in communication with Jacob Goldfield, another
former Goldman Sachs partner who co-managed Corzine’s blind
trust while he was an elected official, the memo said.  Goldfield and Gensler met in 1991 or 1992 at Goldman Sachs’
fixed-income department. Gensler had co-supervisory
responsibility for trading of Yen currency swaps while he was
based in Tokyo; Goldfield, then located in New York, oversaw the
firm’s worldwide swaps book, according to the memo.  ‘Novel Insights’  On Oct. 30, Goldfield sent Gensler an e-mail to inform him
that he was present at MF Global “in case there are
questions.” Goldfield told Gensler that he had “no financial
interest in the company and [was] not looking at it for
investment,” according to the memo. Gensler asked Goldfield if
there were observations to pass along.  “Not as of now, I want only to send along novel insights
that are useful,” Goldfield replied.  “Novel and useful. Now those are limiting conditions,
though I would say that most everything you have shared over our
long knowing each other has been useful,” Gensler said.  Goldfield responded: “Also want to make sure that I am
right before I comment.”  The next day, Oct. 31, Gensler was awakened by a 2:30 a.m.
call from regulators and executives at MF Global, informing him
that hundreds of millions of dollars of customer funds were
missing. Within a week, he’d decided to recuse from the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  