-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise for Second Day as Central Banks Meet
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-07-31T21:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/credit-swaps-in-u-s-hold-at-11-week-low-as-central-banks-meet.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose for a second day as investors await central bank
monetary-policy decisions and U.S.  consumer spending  stalls.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 1.4
basis points to a mid-price of 107.6 basis points at 5:04 p.m.
in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
Contracts tied to  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  rose to the highest since January
after  Standard & Poor’s  said it may cut the company’s credit
rating.  The  Federal Reserve  began a two-day meeting in  Washington 
today, and European Central Bank officials will announce an
interest-rate decision on Aug. 2. Investors are concerned that
the financial and economic turmoil in  Europe  will sap global
profits and undermine companies’ ability to repay borrowings.  “It’s a sit-and-wait period,”  William Larkin , a fixed-
income money manager who helps oversee $500 million at Cabot
Money Management Inc. in Salem,  Massachusetts , said in a
telephone interview. “The market tries not to bet against the
Fed because they hold all the cards.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will probably forgo announcing
a third round of large-scale asset purchases this week, and is
more likely to wait until September to unveil plans to buy $600
billion in housing and government debt, according to median
estimates of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Consumer Confidence  “There could be some major disruptions if there’s a policy
mistake, and I think that the Fed needs to save that weapon,”
Larkin said. “Why would they shoot if they don’t have a target,
a major issue? There’s too many overhangs that are problematic
that are facing us in the near term.”  In the U.S., consumer spending stagnated in June, even as
Americans gained confidence for the first time in five months,
reports from the Commerce Department and the Conference Board
showed today. Household purchases, which make up 70 percent of
the economy, were unchanged last month after a 0.1 percent drop
in May. The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News
survey projected a 0.1 percent increase.  The  consumer confidence  index rose to 65.9 this month from
62.7 in June, according to the New York-based private research
group. Economists had called for a reading of 61.5, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Default Premium  The default premium on the Markit CDX North America High
Yield Index, a measure of U.S. speculative-grade corporate debt
risk, rose 13.9 basis points to a mid-price of 580.3 basis
points, after falling as much as 5 basis points earlier today,
Bloomberg prices show.  In London, the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings rose 1.9 to 159.8. Credit-default
swaps typically rise as investor confidence deteriorates and
fall as it improves.  The cost to guard against losses on the debt of Lowe’s
increased 4.7 basis points to a mid-price of 86.1 basis points
at 5:20 p.m. in New York, Bloomberg prices show. That’s the
highest since the contracts closed at 86.5 on Jan. 31.  S&P said it may lower the home-improvement retailer’s long-
term credit rating, citing its “more aggressive risk
appetite.” Canadian retailer  Rona Inc. (RON)  rejected Lowe’s C$1.76
billion takeover offer today, and the Mooresville, North
Carolina-based Lowe’s said it would consider all options in
continuing its pursuit of a transaction.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  