-- Dallas Cheerleaders, Hollywood Beckon to Iraq War Heroes: Books
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2012-07-31T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/dallas-cheerleaders-hollywood-beckon-to-iraq-war-heroes-books.html
Lucky for Bravo squad, the bloody
firefight it won in  Iraq  was shot by an embedded TV team. The
footage went viral, America went wild and the boys went home for
two weeks of orchestrated patriotism.  The last leg of their victory tour, a Dallas Cowboys game
on Thanksgiving Day, provides the heart and funny bone of  Ben
Fountain ’s marvelous first novel, “ Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime
Walk .” It’s a broadly entertaining satire that takes aim at
celebrity, sports, Hollywood, corporations, the media and more.  Fountain draws fresh blood from these big easy targets
using an understated, almost offhand narrative voice and the
barracks-crude chorus of Bravo squad, a quip-machine as deadly
with F-bombs as it is with bullets.  Every flag-waving, money-grubbing, star-groping
grotesquerie  Fountain  concocts is refracted through these young
grunts earning $14,800 a year for killing people and about to
return for 11 months more of the same.  Over the course of about six hours, the eight men of Bravo
squad split up and regroup several times, meet with corporate
honchos who might finance a film about the battle, perform at
halftime with a marching band and  Destiny’s Child , and get in a
fight with roadies.  The book’s hero on two counts is 19-year-old Billy Lynn,
who rescued a fallen comrade from Iraqi captors during the
filmed battle.  Car Bomb  He’s also the focus of the novel’s minimal action, purveyor
of its less-ironic thoughts, and vehicle for its rare allusions
to the front line, as when the squad’s toughest member seemed
fine at first amid a car bomb’s carnage: “It was only when they
fanned out to search for the correct number of severed limbs
that Mango sank to his knees in a blubbering heap.”  Billy manages the miraculous and falls in requited love
with a Dallas Cowboys cheerleader, which makes it all the more
difficult to fend off his sister’s recent entreaties to go AWOL.
He provides the soldier’s view of the home front, through eyes
still callow yet battle-worn.  The patriots unnerve him: “Talking about war -- their eyes
bugged out, their necks bulged, their voices grew husky with
bloodlust.” They can’t help him in his search for “guidance
having to do with death, grief, the fate of the soul.” He needs
to believe existence is more than “a moron’s progress of
lurching from one damn thing to another.”  War Room  Fountain can be heavy-handed and still fun. The football
game’s two-minute warning gun reminds Billy he has to decide
about going AWOL.  When the Cowboys’ owner steps in to finance the film, he
and his cohorts meet Bravo squad in a small dark office at
halftime, where “everyone turns and smiles for the Bravos.
‘Gentlemen, welcome to the war room!’ someone says.”  In a juicy verbal flight that might have any reporter
wincing, the owner impresses Billy with how he plays to the
media’s need for PR, “a power equation along the lines of the
CEO of a giant corporation via-a-vis the urinal puck he so
thoughtfully studies as it’s drenched with his mighty personal
stream.”  Author of a well-praised short-story collection, “ Brief
Encounters With Che Guevara ” (2006), Fountain has notched
another fine piece of work, one that doesn’t question patriotism
so much as it digs through and indicts all the layers of
forgetting that rhetoric, cynicism and posturing put between the
home front and those defending it.  “Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk” is published by Ecco in
the U.S. and Canongate in the U.K. (307 pages, $25.99, 16.99
pounds). To order this book in  North America , click  here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Katya Kazakina on  art  and Jaime
Widder on  music .  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in  New York  at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 