-- De Guindos Said to Push Spain Cuts as Germany Signals Aid
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-08-01T12:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/de-guindos-said-to-push-spain-cuts-as-germany-signals-aid-1-.html
Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos is pushing for additional budget cuts after  Germany 
signaled to him that such a move would be rewarded by bond
market assistance, according to two people in Madrid familiar
with his thinking.  De Guindos wants further cuts in health and education
spending after his German counterpart,  Wolfgang Schaeuble , told
him that such a move would enable Germany to support any steps
by the  European Central Bank  to push down Spanish borrowing
costs, said the people, who discussed the proposal with the
economy minister. They asked not to be named as the discussions
were confidential. ECB President  Mario Draghi  also backs de
Guindos’s push, said one of the people.  A spokeswoman for the ECB declined to comment. A
spokeswoman for de Guindos said Spain is planning no more cuts
and hasn’t been asked to make any. The German Finance Ministry
referred to a joint statement published after Schaeuble hosted
de Guindos in Berlin on July 24 in which he said bond yields
don’t “correspond to the fundamentals of the Spanish economy.”  The past month has seen some evidence of a rapprochement
between northern and southern euro members with Schaeuble
voicing his support for Spain’s austerity drive after Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  unveiled a fourth package of cuts since
taking office in December. Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
held talks with Finnish officials in Helsinki today after he met
with French President  Francois Hollande  in Paris yesterday.  Bond Yields  The yield on Spanish 10-year bonds dropped more than 100
basis points since reaching a euro-era record last week as
Draghi signaled the ECB is preparing action to help. The ECB
next meets tomorrow to review policy.  “At face value this is encouraging with regard to the ECB
being able to resume its bond purchases as soon as this week,”
 Ken Wattret , chief European economist at BNP Paribas in London,
said of de Guindos in a telephone interview. “But there is
still some uncertainty as to how political developments and ECB
unconventional measures will fit together.”  Spanish bonds rose today, sending 10-year yields down 8
basis points to 6.67 percent at 2:27 p.m. in Madrid. Italy’s 10-
year yield fell 13 basis points to 5.95 percent. The euro was
little changed.  Draghi’s Pledge  Investors are for now looking to Draghi to explain how he
will back up his July 26 pledge to do “whatever it takes” to
protect the 13-year-old currency union.  De Guindos, who sees Schaeuble regularly at meetings of
European finance ministers, sought out his German counterpart
after 65 billion euros ($80 billion) of spending cuts and tax
increases announced July 11 failed to stem a sell-off in Spanish
 government bonds .  One of the people who discussed the agreement with de
Guindos said that Spain will also have to cut pension
entitlements, impose long-term spending controls and meet the
 budget deficit  targets set by the EU to retain German support.  De Guindos’s plans will probably face resistance from
Spain’s regional leaders already balking at having to administer
the harshest spending cuts in the country’s democratic history.
Leaders in Catalonia, the biggest contributor to Spain’s
economy, boycotted a meeting with Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro in Madrid yesterday, when they were meant to discuss
progress on implementing cuts in the existing program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  