-- Default Concerns Make Belize Bonds Worst in Emerging Markets
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o   a n d   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-07-31T21:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/default-concerns-make-belize-s-bonds-worst-in-emerging-markets.html
Belize’s notes  are the worst
performers in  emerging markets  this month as the Central
American nation’s budget deficit widens and concerns grow that
the government will force holders of $544 million of bonds to
take losses in a restructuring.  Belize’s dollar bonds have fallen 2.5 percent this month,
the most among 52 emerging-market countries tracked by JPMorgan
Chase & Co’s EMBIG index. Brazilian and Indonesian bonds have
gained 4.2 percent over the same period. Yields on Belize’s so-
called superbond due in 2029 climbed 145 basis points, or 1.45
percentage point, to 20.08 percent this month as the country
nears its second restructuring in five years.  Prime Minister Dean Barrow, who campaigned on a promise to
restructure the bonds, told lawmakers in June that lowering the
debt burden is “unavoidable.” The government faces an Aug. 20
payment of about $25 million and Barrow said  Belize ’s budget
deficit will swell to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product next
year from 1.1 percent this year. Investors are starting to
“appreciate the difficulty” the government will have in
meeting creditor demands, said Stuart Culverhouse, chief
economist at Exotix Ltd.  “The market has underpriced the risk until this month,”
Culverhouse, who downgraded the bonds from hold to sell on July
5, said in a phone interview from  London . “People are now
beginning to focus on when the concessions are happening.”  Officials at Belize’s Finance Ministry didn’t return calls
seeking comment.  Restructuring ‘Imperative’  The superbond accounts for about half of the nation’s $1.2
billion debt, which has fallen to 81 percent of gross domestic
product from 91 percent in 2007, Barrow said. He vowed to pursue
more lenient payment terms after  interest rates  on the notes
rose to 8.5 percent this year from 6 percent as part of an
accord reached with bondholders in 2007.  “The imperative for restructuring is therefore
irresistible,” Barrow said in his budget presentation to
Congress on June 29, describing the 8.5 percent coupon as
“harrowing.”  Moody’s Investors Service cut Belize’s credit rating for a
second time this year on June 1 to Ca, 10 levels below
investment grade, citing weak growth in the $1.4 billion
tourism-based economy. Moody’s first lowered the rating in
February, prompting Barrow to say he “doesn’t give a damn”
about ratings companies.  “All eyes are on Belize to make the coupon payment,” said
AJ Mediratta, a partner at Greylock Capital Management who is
leading negotiations for a group of investors holding about $300
million in Belize bonds. “The country has the money to make
this coupon payment. We know it is there.”  Economic Growth  While Culverhouse at Exotix also said he expects the
government to pay off bondholders, the risk of investor losses
in a restructuring outweighs the chance for a profitable
settlement “at this juncture,” he said.  The yield on Belize’s 2029 bond climbed one basis point to
20.09 percent today.  Belize’s economy will probably expand 2.8 percent this year
after growing 2 percent in 2011 and compared with 4 percent
growth for Central America, according to the  International
Monetary Fund . Barrow said the expansion will be driven by
growth in banana and sugarcane output, as well as electricity
production and tourism.  An increase in debt service levels combined with declining
oil revenue will place a heavy strain on public finances and the
economy, the central bank said in a report last month. Belize is
still negotiating an agreement with the former owners of the
country’s telecommunications and electricity companies, which
were nationalized starting in 2009.  The government has made few public comments about the
status of its planned restructuring. The delay has surprised
investors, said  Boris Segura , a Latin America strategist at
Nomura Securities International in  New York .  “We were expecting some announcement sooner from the
government,” Segura said. “It will be very difficult to have
this debt restructuring wrapped up by August 20. If you are
trying to reach an amicable restructuring, you try to do that
from a position of being current on your debt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  