-- Defense of Marriage Act Ruled Unlawful by U.S. Judge
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-07-31T19:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/defense-of-marriage-act-ruled-unlawful-by-connecticut-judge.html
The Defense of Marriage Act, which
defines marriage as a union between one man and one woman,
violates the U.S. Constitution’s principles of equal protection,
a federal judge in  Connecticut  ruled.  U.S. District Judge Vanessa L. Bryant in Hartford said
today that Section 3 of the act is discriminatory because it
denies federal benefits to same-sex couples who were married in
states where such unions are legal.  A federal appeals court in Boston made a similar ruling in
May, becoming the first appellate panel to have declared any
part of the law unconstitutional. The Defense of Marriage Act
was signed into law by President  Bill Clinton  in 1996.
Massachusetts became the first U.S. state to permit  same-sex
marriages  in May 2004, after its highest court ruled that gays
and lesbians had a constitutional right to wed.  “Section 3 of DOMA obligates the federal government to
single out a certain category of marriage as excluded from
federal recognition, thereby resulting in an inconsistent
distribution of federal marital benefits,” Bryant wrote in the
ruling.  The case was brought by six couples from the states of
Connecticut, New Hampshire and Vermont and a widower from
Connecticut who were denied federal benefits because of their
marriages to someone of the same sex, according to the group Gay
& Lesbian Advocates & Defenders, or GLAD.  “Judge Bryant’s ruling is very clear: married people are
married and should be treated as such by the federal
government,”  Mary Bonauto , civil-rights project director for
GLAD, said in a statement.  The case is Pedersen v.  Office of Personnel Management , 10-
cv-1750, U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut
(Hartford).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  