-- Deutsche Bank Says Facing Lawsuit Over Yen Libor, Derivatives
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-07-31T16:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/deutsche-bank-says-facing-lawsuit-over-yen-libor-derivatives.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , one of at least a
dozen banks being probed over allegations of interest-rate
rigging, is being sued over claims it manipulated the Yen Libor
rate and the price of derivatives tied to the Euroyen benchmark.  The suit was filed in April in the U.S. by parties the bank
didn’t identify who alleges Deutsche Bank was one of a group of
banks that rigged the Yen London interbank offered rate, the
Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate for yen held overseas and the price
of Euroyen-based derivatives, Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank said
in a statement today.  The suit is one of several potential class actions filed
against the bank in the U.S. The other suits relate to
allegations the bank manipulated U.S. dollar Libor and the
prices of derivatives tied to that rate. The lender filed in
June to dismiss those lawsuits, which have been consolidated for
pre-trial purposes in federal court in  New York .  Banks are the target of litigation as regulators probe
firms over clams they artificially understated their cost of
borrowing or allowed traders to manipulate  interest rates  and
profit from bets on  interest-rate swaps .  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s
second-biggest bank by assets, was fined a record 290 million
pounds ($456 million) last month for rigging the London
interbank offered rate.  Libor is determined by 18 banks’ daily estimates of how
much it would cost them to borrow from one another for different
time frames and in different currencies. The
benchmark rate for more than $360 trillion of securities, Libor
influences the cost of securities from mortgages to derivatives.  Internal Probe  Deutsche Bank reiterated today it’s co-operating with
regulators and said an internal investigation has so far cleared
current and former management board members of wrongdoing.  “A limited number of employees, acting on their own
initiative, engaged in conduct that falls short of the Bank’s
standards, and action has been taken accordingly,”  Paul Achleitner , the Frankfurt-based company’s supervisory board
chairman, said in a letter to employees today. He didn’t give
further details about the employees or any disciplinary actions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  