-- Deutsche Bank Cuts Pay as Workers See Fewer Exits
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-08-01T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/deutsche-bank-cuts-pay-as-workers-see-fewer-exits.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-Chief Executive
Officer Anshu Jain is cutting compensation to placate
shareholders as Europe’s debt crisis slashes financial-industry
jobs, leaving workers fewer opportunities to defect.  “We need to further address both the absolute level of
compensation and the relative balance between rewards for
shareholders and those for employees,” Jain said yesterday on a
conference call. “Compensation must be clearly and visibly
aligned to sustainable performance.”  Investment banks are trimming workforces to reduce costs as
the debt crisis curbs trading and leads to a slump in stock and
bond offerings. The dearth of jobs in the sector will make it
easier for Jain, 49, to get employees at Germany’s biggest bank
to accept lower pay for lack of alternatives, said  Dirk Becker ,
a Kepler Capital Markets analyst in Frankfurt.  “A few years ago, no one in the  investment-banking 
industry would dare cut compensation as they’d lose their
talent,” said Becker, who  recommends  investors buy Deutsche
Bank shares. “Now, many of the banks are cutting pay and that’s
good for shareholders.”  Deutsche Bank rose 0.5 percent to 25 euros as of 9:58 a.m.
in Frankfurt. The stock has fallen 15 percent this year,
compared with a 0.1 percent decline for the 38-company  Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index.   Job Cuts  The lender said yesterday it will cut about 1,900 jobs by
the end of the year, including 1,500 positions in its investment
bank and related infrastructure areas. Most of the reduction
will take place outside of Germany, the firm said.  Those measures will contribute about 350 million euros
($431 million) to a 3 billion-euro cost-savings plan, the
company said in a statement. Deutsche Bank employed 10,079 at
the investment bank at the end of June, company filings show.  The lender’s announced cuts boosted the number of job
reductions announced by western European financial firms this
year to more than 25,000, following more than 107,000 in 2011,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Deutsche Bank is seeking to bolster capital as it prepares
for new rules intended to prevent a repeat of 2008’s taxpayer-
funded bailouts. The firm announced last month a risk-reduction
plan to meet the requirements and yesterday said it will “apply
all capital levers at its disposal before considering raising
equity from investors.”  Revenue Down  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Bank of America Corp.,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  had combined
first-half revenue of $161 billion, down 4.5 percent from 2011
and the lowest since $135 billion four years ago. The firms
blamed the decline on low  interest rates  and a drop in trading
and deal-making as the European-debt crisis persists and growth
in the U.S. and China slows.  “The European crisis has developed closer toward our more
grim scenario than our better case scenario over the course of
the past two years,” Jain said yesterday, according to a
Bloomberg transcript of the call. “Our prospects and our future
view on profitability is different today than it was in 2010.”  Deutsche Bank said yesterday that second-quarter pretax
 profit  at its investment bank slid 63 percent to 357 million
euros from a year earlier. That missed the 835 million-euro
average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Very Bold’  “Deutsche has a first-class investment-banking franchise
but it has recognized the need to take cuts,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  analyst in London who has the
equivalent of a sell recommendation on the shares. “It is very
difficult in this environment to make those cost savings work
because revenue is often going against you and you don’t have
any leverage. The 3 billion-euro target is very bold.”  Colin Fan, 39, and Rob Rankin, 48, succeeded Jain as head
of the investment bank, known as corporate banking and
securities, at the beginning of June. Jain became co-CEO with
Germany head  Juergen Fitschen , 63, after CEO  Josef Ackermann ,
64, stepped down at the end of May.  Deutsche Bank cut employee compensation and benefits at the
division 7 percent to 1.29 billion euros in the second quarter,
according to company filings yesterday. The 14,542 employees at
the unit, which encompasses its investment bank and global
transaction banking, earned 88,846 euros on average, down 1.8
percent from 90,452 euros a year earlier, the filings show.  Non-interest costs at the investment bank climbed to 3.05
billion euros in the quarter from 2.91 billion euros. Analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg estimated costs of 2.77 billion euros for
the unit.  ‘Best Talent’  “We will stay committed to attracting and retaining the
best talent,” Jain said. “Our clients expect that. But we
firmly believe that the industry as a whole will have to change
its compensation model.”  The bank’s compensation as a ratio of net revenues rose to
42 percent in the second quarter from 39 percent a year earlier
as the firm accrued more deferred pay, according to a
presentation on Deutsche Bank’s website.  The German bank will probably reduce bonuses over several
years as it pays out compensation deferred from previous years,
said Kepler’s Becker.  Even in the worst of times, there’s competition for the
most experienced bankers. Deutsche Bank’s head of flow-credit
trading, Antoine Cornut, and Tom Higbie, a credit analyst, left
the firm last week for  hedge funds .  Credit Suisse  “The war for talent may have ebbed, but it looks to be
part of Deutsche Bank’s strategy to still treat its employees
better than competitors to position the firm,” said  Christian Muschick , an analyst at Silvia Quandt Research GmbH in
Frankfurt, who has the equivalent of a hold recommendation on
the shares.  Muschick said  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  has been “more
aggressive” in reducing staff.  Credit Suisse announced plans last year to cut 3,500 jobs
and lower expenses by 2 billion francs ($2.05 billion). The
Zurich-based bank, Switzerland’s second-biggest, said July 18
that it was planning to cut an additional 1 billion francs of
costs by the end of 2013, without providing details of job
losses.  Larger rival  UBS AG (UBSN) , which is also based in Zurich,
unveiled 3,500 job cuts last year, with about 1,575 of those at
the investment bank.  ‘Difficult Market’  “Anshu’s never going to make his people vulnerable, but
he’s aware that there’s a very difficult market out there,”
Mediobanca’s Wheeler said.  UBS will cut bonuses further than Deutsche Bank because the
Swiss firm is reducing the scale of its investment bank, Becker
said.  “Deutsche Bank is limited in its ability to cut
compensation because it wants to hold on to bankers as they have
more ambition to succeed in investment banking,” Becker said.  The firm’s investment bank has about 31,799 employees,
including back-office workers, the highest among global peers,
 Kian Abouhossein  and Amit Ranjan, JPMorgan analysts, estimated
in a July 3 note.  Without job cuts in the current “weak” environment,
Deutsche Bank’s revenue per employee at the investment bank
could fall to the lowest compared with Goldman Sachs, Morgan
Stanley, UBS,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Credit Suisse in  2013, the
analysts said at the time.  Litigation Costs  Jain said his call for “a cultural change” in the
financial sector extends beyond compensation. Deutsche Bank will
seek to “maintain first-class compliance and risk management
systems, and do our best to root out bad behavior,” he said.  The German bank raised its estimate for potential
litigation losses for which it hasn’t set aside provisions to
2.5 billion euros yesterday from 2.1 billion euros in April.
Chief Financial Officer  Stefan Krause , 49, said on the
conference call with Jain that the increase partly reflected
additional cases, without identifying them.  Deutsche Bank is one of at least a dozen banks being probed
by regulators over claims they artificially understated their
cost of borrowing or allowed traders to manipulate interest
rates and profit from bets on  interest-rate swaps . Barclays Plc,
Britain’s second-biggest bank by assets, was fined a record 290
million pounds ($456 million) in June for rigging the London
interbank offered rate.  The German bank, which is also the subject of civil
actions, reiterated yesterday that it’s co-operating with
regulators and said an internal investigation has so far cleared
current and former management board members of wrongdoing.  The internal rates probe “found that a limited number of
employees, acting on their own initiative, engaged in conduct
that falls short of the bank’s standards, and action has been
taken accordingly,”  Paul Achleitner , 55, Deutsche Bank’s
supervisory board chairman, said in a letter to employees. The
letter, dated yesterday, didn’t specify the action taken.  “The time for vague promises of cultural change in our
industry is long gone,” Jain said yesterday on the conference
call. “Our investors, but also our clients, regulators,
governments and the public, want to see change.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  