-- Deutsche Bank to Cut 1,900 Jobs as Part of Savings Plan
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-07-31T15:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/deutsche-bank-to-cut-1-900-jobs-as-part-of-bid-to-save-eu3-bln.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  said it will
eliminate 1,900 jobs by the end of the year, including 1,500 at
the investment bank and support areas, as part of an effort to
save 3 billion euros ($3.68 billion).  Germany ’s biggest lender, which employed 10,079 at the
investment bank at the end of June, said most of the positions
slated for removal at the unit will be outside Germany. The
Frankfurt-based lender forecast “substantial costs” to achieve
the savings without giving an exact figure in a statement to the
stock exchange today.  The job reductions were prompted by a strategy review Anshu Jain and Juergen Fitschen, Deutsche Bank’s new co-chief
executive officers, are conducting as the lender grapples with
declining revenue from the investment bank, which reported a 63
percent decline in second-quarter earnings today. Pretax profit
at the unit slid to 357 million euros, missing the 835 million-
euro average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Deutsche has a first-class  investment banking  franchise
but it has recognized the need to take cuts,”  Christopher
Wheeler , a Mediobanca SpA analyst in London who has the
equivalent of a sell rating on the shares, said. “It is very
difficult in this environment to make those cost savings work
because revenue is often going against you and you don’t have
any leverage. The 3 billion-euro target is very bold.”  Sovereign Debt Woes  “The European sovereign debt crisis continues to weigh on
investor confidence and client activity across the bank,” Jain
and Fitschen said in the statement.  Investment banks are cutting staff to reduce costs as the
debt crisis curbs trading and leads to a slump in stock and bond
offerings. Deutsche Bank is reviewing its “absolute level of
compensation” and the “relative balance between rewards for
shareholders and those for employees” as part of a cultural
change within the bank, it said.  “The time for vague promises of cultural change in our
industry is long gone,” Jain said on a conference call with
analysts and reporters. Deutsche Bank’s leaders are “totally
determined to act quickly and decisively.”  The bank is also reviewing its codes of personal conduct to
ensure they are in line with “its long tradition of doing
business to the highest standards.”  Libor Probe  Deutsche Bank is among the 18 banks being probed into
possible interest-rate manipulation. The bank “continues to
cooperate with regulators on Libor,”  Stefan Krause , the chief
financial officer, said on the conference call.  “No current or former member of the Management Board had
any inappropriate involvement in the interbank offered rates
matters under review,”  Paul Achleitner , the chairman of the
supervisory board, said in a letter to employees today.  “A limited number of employees, acting on their own
initiative, engaged in conduct that falls short of the Bank’s
standards, and action has been taken accordingly,” Achleitner
said.  Deutsche Bank, whose stock has  declined  16 percent this
year, pared losses to trade down 0.1 percent at 24.82 euros as
of 5:03 p.m. The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index, which tracks 38 stocks, has fallen 1.1 percent since Dec.
31.  Deutsche Bank’s second-quarter profit dropped 46 percent to
650 million euros, the company said today, after last week
reporting an estimated net income figure of about 700 million
euros in a preliminary report. The bank said the euro’s decline
against the  U.S. dollar  and British pound drove up costs in
those regions relative to Germany.  Debt-Trading Revenue  Non-interest costs at the investment bank climbed to 3.05
billion euros in the quarter from 2.91 billion euros. Analysts
estimated costs of 2.77 billion euros for the unit in a
Bloomberg survey. Debt-trading revenue at the division fell to
2.18 billion euros from 2.35 billion euros. That compares with
an analysts’ estimate of 2.13 billion euros.  Revenue from selling equity for clients plummeted 64
percent to 89 million euros in the second quarter from a year
earlier while income from placing debt fell 11 percent to 284
million euros in the period, according to Deutsche Bank.  Deutsche Bank cut its net sovereign risks related to
Greece,  Italy , Ireland, Portugal and  Spain  to 3.91 billion euros
at the end of March from 3.94 billion euros three months
earlier, according to a presentation published on the company’s
website. Risks related to Spain fell to 873 million euros from
1.36 billion euros while those related to Italy rose to 2.52
billion euros from 1.95 billion euros, the slides show.  Holding Back  The uncertainties stemming from the  European debt crisis 
and the recovery in the U.S. as well as legal risks affect the
outlook for Germany’s biggest lender.  “The current environment continues to result in
significant lower levels of client activity, both in investment
banking as well as in certain parts of our retail business,‘‘
Deutsche Bank said in its quarterly report today.‘‘We expect
this to continue in the second half of the year.’’  ‘‘Investors and companies are holding back from bond and
share sales because of the high level of uncertainty on markets
from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis,’’ said Michael Seufert, an
analyst with Norddeutsche Landesbank in Hanover who recommends
investors hold the stock. ‘‘Right now, the bank is focused on
damage limitation and minimizing risk in this environment.’’  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America  Corp.,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  had combined
first-half revenue of $161 billion, down 4.5 percent from 2011
and the lowest since $135 billion four years ago. The firms
blamed the decline on low  interest rates  and a drop in trading
and deal-making driven by concerns about European government
finances and slowing growth in the U.S. and China.  UBS and Commerzbank  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, had a second-quarter
loss at its investment bank, causing profit to slump 58 percent,
according to an earnings report today.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-largest bank, yesterday
reported second-quarter pretax profit that fell short of
analysts’ estimates after saying it would sell its stake in
Ukraine’s Bank Forum JSC and take a charge of 286 million euros.  Compensation and benefits at the corporate and investment
bank division, which comprises the investment bank and global
transaction banking units, fell to 1.29 billion euros in the
second quarter from 1.39 billion euros a year earlier, while
severance payments rose to 45 million euros from 29 million
euros, according to Deutsche Bank.  Consumer Banking  The bank’s compensation as a ratio of net revenues rose to
42 percent from 39 percent as the firm accrued a higher amount
of deferred pay, according to a presentation published on
Deutsche Bank’s website today.  Pretax profit at Deutsche Bank’s private and business
clients unit, which includes its consumer-banking operations,
fell to 398 million euros in the second quarter from 458 million
euros a year earlier. That beat the 344 million-euro average
estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg and outstripped
earnings at the investment bank.  The asset management division’s pretax profit slumped to 35
million euros in the second quarter from 227 million euros as
the bank booked 50 million euros in costs related to a review of
the unit and lower client activity, according to Deutsche Bank’s
statement.  The units up for sale in that process were unable to win
business during the review, according to the presentation.
Deutsche Bank scrapped a plan to sell its RREEF infrastructure
and real estate unit to Guggenheim Partners LLC in June after
exiting talks over the sale of three other asset management
units to the U.S. investor in May.  Asset Management  Deutsche Bank is ‘‘committed” to its asset and wealth
management unit, according to the presentation.  Banks are under orders from regulators to raise capital to
avoid a repeat of the taxpayer-funded bailouts of the 2008
financial crisis. Deutsche Bank, the third-least capitalized of
Europe’s 10 biggest banks at the end of 2011, came under more
pressure after  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  bowed this month to
demands from the  Swiss National Bank  to increase reserves.  After announcing profit that missed analysts’ estimates
last week, Deutsche Bank said it will expand its risk reduction
program to meet new  capital requirements , known as Basel III,
that begin to take effect next year.  Deutsche Bank said it will “apply all capital levers at
its disposal before considering raising equity from investors”
to fulfill regulatory requirements. The bank plans to achieve a
core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of a bank’s capital strength, of at
least eight percent, a target that simulates a full
implementation of the new capital rules, by the end of the first
quarter of 2013.  Deutsche Bank expects its assets weighted according to risk
will jump to 475 billion euros at the beginning of 2013 from 385
billion euros at the end of the year, assuming a gradual
implementation of Basel III rules, according to the slides.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  