-- Deutsche Bank Investment Bank Profit Drops 63% on Trading
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-07-31T08:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/deutsche-bank-investment-bank-profit-drops-63-on-trading.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest
bank, said second-quarter earnings at its investment bank slid
63 percent as revenue from trading and issuing securities shrank
amid Europe’s debt crisis.  Pretax profit at the corporate banking and securities unit
slid to 357 million euros ($439 million) from 969 million euros
in the same period a year earlier, the Frankfurt-based company
said today in a statement. That missed the 835 million-euro
average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Investment banks are cutting staff to reduce costs as the
debt crisis curbs trading and leads to a slump in stock and bond
offerings. Anshu Jain and Juergen Fitschen, Deutsche Bank’s new
co-chief executive officers, must grapple with declining revenue
at the division, rising  capital requirements  and regulatory
probes into the setting of interbank lending rates.  “The cost income ratio and the corporate and investment
bank are quite weak,” said Andrew Lim, an analyst with Espirito
Santo Investment Bank who recommends investors sell the stock.
“It is disappointing that the bank did not announce any new
cost or capital measures in the morning. There is nothing that
should drive the stock forward.”  Deutsche Bank fell 1 percent to 24.61 euros as of 9:51 a.m.
in  Frankfurt . That extended the stock’s  decline  to 16 percent
this year, compared with the 0.5 percent gain for the Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index, which tracks 38
stocks.  Euro Decline  Deutsche Bank’s second-quarter profit declined 46 percent
to 650 million euros, the company said, after it reported last
week an estimated net income figure of about 700 million euros.
The bank said the euro’s decline against the  U.S. dollar  and
British pound drove up costs in those regions relative to
Germany.  Non-interest costs at the investment bank climbed to 3.05
billion euros in the quarter from 2.91 billion euros. Analysts
estimated costs of 2.77 billion euros for the unit in a
Bloomberg survey. Debt-trading revenue at the division fell to
2.18 billion euros from 2.35 billion euros. That compares with
an analysts’ estimate of 2.13 billion euros.  Revenue from selling equity for clients plummeted 64
percent to 89 million euros in the second quarter from a year
earlier while income from placing debt fell 11 percent to 284
million euros in the period, according to Deutsche Bank.  “The European sovereign debt crisis continues to weigh on
investor confidence and client activity across the bank,” Jain
and Fitschen said in the statement.  Deutsche Bank cut its net sovereign risks related to
Greece,  Italy , Ireland, Portugal and  Spain  to 3.91 billion euros
at the end of March from 3.94 billion euros three months
earlier, according to a presentation published on the company’s
website. Risks related to Spain fell to 873 million euros from
1.36 billion euros while those related to Italy rose to 2.52
billion euros from 1.95 billion euros, the slides show.  Jain, 49, and Fitschen, 63, who took over from  Josef Ackermann , 64, at the end of May, will provide an update on
their strategic review on a conference call at 2 p.m. Frankfurt
time.  “Investors and companies are holding back from bond and
share sales because of the high level of uncertainty on markets
from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis,” said Michael Seufert, an
analyst with Norddeutsche Landesbank in Hanover who recommends
investors hold the stock. “Right now, the bank is focused on
damage limitation and minimizing risk in this environment.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America  Corp.,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  had combined
first-half revenue of $161 billion, down 4.5 percent from 2011
and the lowest since $135 billion four years ago. The firms
blamed the decline on low  interest rates  and a drop in trading
and deal-making driven by concerns about European government
finances and slowing growth in the U.S. and China.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, had a second-quarter
loss at its investment bank, causing profit to slump 58 percent,
according to an earnings report today.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-largest bank, yesterday
reported second-quarter pretax profit that fell short of
analysts’ estimates after saying it would sell its stake in
Ukraine’s Bank Forum JSC and take a charge of 286 million euros.  Job Cuts  Deutsche Bank is considering cutting about 1,000 positions
at its investment bank as revenue declines, a person with
knowledge of the matter said July 19. The cuts will be mostly
outside Germany, where the firm’s investment banking operations
are focused, said the person, who asked not to be identified as
Deutsche Bank’s plan hadn’t been made public.  That would come on top of a completed plan to cut 500 jobs
at the investment bank, announced in October.  Compensation and benefits at the division which comprises
the investment bank and global transaction banking units fell to
1.29 billion euros in the second quarter from 1.39 billion euros
a year earlier while severance payments rose to 45 million euros
from 29 million euros, according to Deutsche Bank.  The bank’s compensation as a ratio of net revenues rose to
42 percent from 39 percent as the firm accrued a higher amount
of deferred pay, according to a presentation published on
Deutsche Bank’s website today.  Pretax profit at Deutsche Bank’s private and business
clients unit, which includes its consumer-banking operations,
fell to 398 million euros in the second quarter from 458 million
euros a year earlier. That beat the 344 million-euro average
estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg and outstripped
earnings at the investment bank.  The asset management division’s pretax profit slumped to 35
million euros in the second quarter from 227 million euros as
the bank booked 50 million euros in costs related to a review of
the unit and lower client activity, according to Deutsche Bank’s
statement.  The units up for sale in that process were unable to win
business during the review, according to the presentation.
Deutsche Bank scrapped a plan to sell its RREEF infrastructure
and real estate unit to Guggenheim Partners LLC in June after
exiting talks over the sale of three other asset management
units to the U.S. investor in May.  Deutsche Bank is “committed” to its asset and wealth
management unit, according to the presentation.  Banks are under orders from regulators to raise capital to
avoid a repeat of the taxpayer-funded bailouts of the 2008
financial crisis. Deutsche Bank, the third-least capitalized of
Europe’s 10 biggest banks at the end of 2011, came under more
pressure after  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  bowed this month to
demands from the  Swiss National Bank  to increase reserves.  After announcing profit that missed analysts’ estimates
last week, Deutsche Bank said it will expand its risk reduction
program to meet new capital requirements, known as Basel III,
that begin to take effect next year.  Deutsche Bank expects its assets weighted according to risk
will jump to 475 billion euros at the beginning of 2013 from 385
billion euros at the end of the year, assuming a gradual
implementation of Basel III rules, according to the slides.  That increase would be higher if the bank didn’t plan on
cutting an additional 29 billion euros in risk-weighted assets,
the presentation shows. The costs of that reduction aren’t
reflected in the simulation, according to Deutsche Bank.  Investors are also looking to today’s conference call for
information on Deutsche Bank’s role in a global probe into
possible interest-rate manipulation.  Libor Probe  The two-year investigation, which involves regulators on
three continents, has touched as many as 18 financial
institutions that help set London and Tokyo interbank offered
rates for dollars, euros and yen. Libor is the benchmark for
$500 trillion of securities and is the basis for interest rates
on securities from mortgages to derivatives.  Deutsche Bank said in March that the  U.S. Department of
Justice , the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the European Commission
were among watchdogs that subpoenaed the lender or requested
information. The requests relate to periods between 2005 and
2011, the bank said at the time, adding that it’s cooperating
with the inquiries.  Legal expenses stemming from probes into manipulation of
Libor could range from $59 million for  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) 
to as much as $1.04 billion for Deutsche Bank and $1.06 billion
for Edinburgh-based   Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , according
to estimates published by Morgan Stanley analysts  Betsy Graseck 
and Huw van Steenis. The costs probably would apply in 2013 and
2014, the analysts, who are based in New York and London
respectively, wrote in a July 12 note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  