-- Deutsche Bank’s Investment-Banker Pay Fell 7% in Second Quarter
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-07-31T09:37:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/deutsche-bank-s-investment-banker-pay-fell-7-in-second-quarter.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest
bank, allocated 7 percent less in pay to employees at its
corporate and investment banking unit during the second quarter
as the sovereign debt crisis curbed income from trading.  The company set aside 1.29 billion euros ($1.58 billion)
for  compensation  and benefits to employees at the division that
includes global transaction banking, compared with 1.39 billion
euros a year earlier, the Frankfurt-based lender said in a
filing today. The 14,542 employees at the unit earned 88,846
euros on average in the second quarter, down 1.8 percent from
90,452 euros in the year-earlier period, the document shows.  Investment banks are trying to reduce personnel costs to
counter a decline in revenue as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
curbs trading and leads to a slump in stock and bond offerings.
Pretax profit at the division declined 48 percent to 666 million
euros in the period, Deutsche Bank said today. Deferred
compensation expenses and a lack of flexibility helped to
increase costs at Deutsche Bank’s securities unit, according to
Kinner Lakhani, an analyst at Citigroup Inc.  “Costs disappointed,” Lakhani, who has a neutral rating on
the shares, wrote in a note. “The bank highlighted increased
legal and regulatory expenses although we believe that deferred-
compensation expense pressure and lack of compensation
flexibility has played a part.”  Debt-trading revenue at the division fell to 2.18 billion
euros from 2.35 billion euros. Revenue from arranging stock
offerings plummeted 64 percent to 89 million euros, while income
from debt underwriting shrank 11 percent to 284 million euros in
the period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  