-- Discovery’s Sales Slow as Company Seeks Growth Overseas
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-07-31T20:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/discovery-profit-tops-estimates-as-cable-shows-draw-viewers.html
Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA) , the
cable-programming company that owns the Animal Planet and
Investigation Discovery channels, reported slower sales than
estimated last quarter as the company looks overseas for growth.  Sales gained 7 percent to $1.14 billion,  Silver Spring ,
Maryland-based Discovery said today in a  statement . Analysts had
projected revenue of $1.16 billion on average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Net income rose 15 percent to $293
million, or 76 cents a share, from $254 million, or 62 cents, a
year earlier, topping the 70-cent estimate.  Discovery, facing slower growth in the U.S., is banking on
an expansion in international markets. Chief Executive Officer
 David Zaslav  has increased Discovery’s stable of channels and is
bolstering its programming in places like Brazil and Mexico. The
company gets about half its revenue from ads, with the rest
coming from rights fees from pay-TV operators.  “International is our strength,” Zaslav said on a
conference call following the earnings report.  Discovery fell 0.6 percent to $50.63 at the close in New
York. The  stock  has climbed 24 percent this year.  Discovery’s international business remains a bright spot,
even as Europe copes with a credit crisis, according to  Paul Sweeney , a media analyst with Bloomberg Industries in New York.  “The 11 percent growth in international advertising seems
to bear this out,” Sweeney said.  Oprah’s Network  The OWN channel, Discovery’s joint venture with  Oprah Winfrey ’s Harpo Productions, is on track to be profitable by the
second half of next year, and eight of its charter advertisers
have re-signed with the network, according to Zaslav. Discovery
began recording 100 percent of the losses at OWN in its “other
expense, net” section.  Investigation Discovery, started March 2003, increased its
total-day viewership among 18- to 49-year-olds, a group targeted
by advertisers, by 49 percent, overtaking TLC as the company’s
No. 2 channel,  David Bank , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
New York, wrote on July 19, citing Nielsen. Animal Planet’s
prime-time audience in that group gained 12 percent, he wrote.  Discovery is seeking to renew agreements with three pay-TV
services that expire later this year, a chance to increase
subscriber income, Todd Juenger, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York, wrote yesterday. Investors will
seek clarity on Discovery’s plans for $1 billion in debt sold
during the period, wrote Juenger, who anticipates the cash will
be used for share repurchases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  