-- Does Mitt Romney Have a Problem Being Wealthy?
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-07-31T23:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/does-mitt-romney-have-a-problem-being-wealthy-.html
Having money, on balance, is a net
positive in life, but studies of happiness caution that great
wealth doesn’t necessarily improve well-being.  For  Mitt Romney , it may actually be an impediment. In his
campaign for president, Romney’s personal fortune has proved to
be a tender subject as well as the source material for many of
his worst gaffes. If only his wealth could rest demurely in the
 Cayman Islands . Instead, it rears up at politically inopportune
moments, prompting Romney to offer Texas Governor  Rick Perry  a
$10,000 bet at a debate; to announce his affinity for “Nascar
owners” and his disdain for fans dressed in plastic ponchos; to
declare his enjoyment of firing people and to make a joke about
being unemployed himself.  His wife, Ann, he told us, has two Cadillacs, which helps
to explain both the need for a car lift at the couple’s
oceanfront house and the conclusion, reached by 89 percent of
respondents in a YouGov  poll , that Romney “cares about the
wealthy.”  Columnist Daniel Henninger of the Wall Street Journal, a
newspaper that sympathetically chronicles the abuses heaped on
the upper class by an ungrateful hoi polloi, warned that photos
of the Romneys vacationing on  New Hampshire ’s Lake Winnipesaukee
(with yet another mansion in the background) was a jet ski too
far. In a nation where median family income has been losing
ground for more than a decade, is it too much to ask Romney at
least to pretend that he understands the ways of commoners?  Apparently it is. Members of the Republican establishment,
including Governor  Chris Christie  of  New Jersey , former party
chairman  Haley Barbour  and talking heads of the class Bill Kristol and  George Will , have urged Romney to fork over multiple
years of tax returns, as countless candidates, including
Romney’s own father, have done before him.  No Returns  After months of dithering accompanied by vague claims that
tax data would be forthcoming, the candidate opted for secrecy,
deciding that the political hit from not disclosing his taxes is
preferable to showing voters whatever lurks inside.  Even discussing his wealth musses Romney’s chairman-of-the-
board demeanor. Such conversation, he told the NBC “Today”
show’s Matt Lauer, should be reserved for “quiet rooms.” Trouble
is, being a presidential candidate means dispensing with
privacy, including revealing how much money you have, where it
came from and whether, in the sort of hypothetical that seemed
inconceivable until the 2012 campaign, it is residing not in a
cookie jar but in the quiet rooms of Switzerland and  Bermuda .  What does it say about Romney’s rigid embrace of his
fortune that he won’t move his money from nations synonymous
with dodgy tax manipulation into a U.S. account? Not even to be
president? How much does he want the job?  Romney at least has acquired a bit of horse sense,
distancing himself from Rafalca,  Ann Romney ’s  mare  that will be
dancing for gold at the Olympics in an obscure sport called
dressage. Romney now says he won’t be paying attention to the
competition, which Romney supporter Charles Krauthammer called
“the most upper-class hoity-toity Olympic event ever invented.”  Talking to NBC’s  Brian Williams , Romney would only cop to
knowing that other “people that are associated with this are
looking forward to it.”  Far from being an innocent bystander, dressage-wise, Romney
has previously swooned over Austrian Warmbloods in an off-air
 exchange  with Fox News host Sean Hannity. He has attended many
competitions and in April  helped choose  the music for Rafalca’s
high-stepping performance at the Dressage  World Cup .  It may be too late to put the horse back in the barn, but
Romney might at least want to revisit the $77,000 business  loss 
he took for Rafalca’s care and feeding, which is sort of like
the tax deduction families get for each child, only much, much
better.  Therapeutic Caviar  A presidential candidate who takes a huge tax deduction for
such an elitist sport exhibits a cluelessness bordering on
contempt. Romney has argued that dressage helps his wife’s
multiple sclerosis. That’s all to the good, but dressage is to
therapeutic horseback riding as caviar is to Spam.  Romney supporters know to dismiss as envious anyone who
highlights the peculiarities of the candidate’s wealth. Most of
them undoubtedly understand that his success is not the issue.
The source of resentment is that Romney plays by different
rules. He says he pays the taxes he legally owes and “not a
penny more.”  That’s probably true. The investor class has shoehorned
complicated loopholes into the  tax code , keeping a flotilla of
accountants busy sheltering their wealth from the  U.S. Treasury .
(Ordinary taxpayers, alas, cannot play along at home.)  In a rare interview this week with ABC News, Romney said he
would be “happy to go back and look” to see if he ever had paid
taxes at a rate lower than 13.9 percent, which he paid on $21.7
million in income in 2010, the one year of tax returns he has
released. That’s “happy” as in “happy to have root canal.” We’re
still waiting for Romney’s response, let alone his returns.
Let’s find a quiet room to talk about it.  (Margaret Carlson is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on demanding a compromise to
 stop the fiscal cliff  and on why  Thailand needs political
stability ; Clive Crook on why  Germany  should let the ECB do
 “whatever it takes” ;  Amity Shlaes  on why the Fed should  stop
sailing against the wind ; Mikhail Chernov on the  benefits of
Libor rigging ; Richard Cohen on the drama of the  Olympic fencing
duels ; Handel Reynolds on the  politics of mammograms .  To contact the writer on this article:
 Margaret Carlson  in Washington at  mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 