-- Don’t Fight Fed as Decision Days Fuel Rally, Bespoke Says
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-07-31T16:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/don-t-fight-fed-as-decision-days-fuel-rally-bespoke-says.html
Investors should buy stocks before
the Federal Reserve’s announcement tomorrow, if history is of
any guide, according to Bespoke Investment Group LLC.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  has advanced in 20 out of
the past 29 decision days since the Fed pledged to keep  interest
rates  near zero in December 2008, a study from Harrison, New
York-based Bespoke shows. While Fed days made up 3 percent of
the trading days during the period, they accounted for about 38
percent of the equity gauge’s gain, the data show.  “‘Don’t fight the Fed’ is one of the most well-known
market axioms around, and these performance numbers couldn’t do
a better job of highlighting why,”  Justin Walters , Bespoke’s
co-founder, wrote in a note today.  The  S&P 500  has rallied 10 percent this year amid
speculation that worse-than-expected  economic data  will prompt
the Fed to take more actions to spur growth. Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  and other Federal Open Market Committee members began a
two-day meeting today.  Bernanke will probably forgo announcing a third round of
large-scale asset purchases, and is more likely to wait until
September to unveil plans to buy $600 billion in housing and
government debt, according to median estimates of economists in
a Bloomberg News survey.  The Fed has carried out two rounds of so-called
quantitative easing since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed in 2008, buying $2.3 trillion in bonds to boost the
economy. The S&P 500 jumped 59 percent during the 913 trading
days from December 2008 through yesterday, with return on the
Fed days totaling 22 percent, data from Bespoke and Bloomberg
show. The average gain on the past 29 Fed days was 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  