-- Draghi Reshapes ECB Crisis Pragmatism as Trichet’s Dogma Fades
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-07-31T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/draghi-reshapes-ecb-crisis-pragmatism-as-trichet-s-dogma-fades.html
Mario Draghi  defied his own staff at
his first meeting as European Central Bank president and voted
to cut interest rates. As the crisis rages on nine months later,
he is shaping the institution more and more in his own image.  Last week Draghi signaled he is willing to take the ECB
further than his predecessor,  Jean-Claude Trichet , in building a
firewall around  Spain  and Italy. Earlier last month, he
jettisoned Trichet’s mantra that senior bondholders at crippled
banks shouldn’t suffer losses.  Together with three  interest-rate  cuts taking  borrowing
costs  to a record low, more than 1 trillion euros ($1.2
trillion) in bank loans and a looser collateral framework, such
shifts show pragmatism and a more flexible approach has taken
hold at the ECB, said economists from UniCredit Bank AG to
Berenberg Bank. Now Draghi is trying to win consensus across
governments and central banks for a plan to shore up the
region’s bond market that could be announced as soon as tomorrow
after he chairs the ECB’s Governing Council meeting.  “The ECB has become more pragmatic under Draghi, many
taboos have been shed and precedents set,” said  Christian Schulz , a former ECB economist now working for Berenberg in
London. “There are a number of reasons for that: the crisis has
escalated to the level that the tools devised under Trichet are
just not sufficient anymore, and a less dogmatic board also
helps.”  No Taboos  Draghi, 64, is himself fostering the image of a new
approach. He told Le Monde newspaper in an interview published
July 21 that the ECB doesn’t have “any taboos.” Five days
later, he sparked the biggest drop in seven months for Spanish
10-year bond yields as he warned investors not to bet against
the ECB’s resolve to curb surging Italian and Spanish borrowing
costs.  “Within our mandate, the ECB is ready to do whatever it
takes to preserve the euro,” Draghi said. “Believe me, it will
be enough.”  An ECB spokeswoman declined to comment.  Draghi came to the ECB with a resume that differed from
Trichet’s in one key aspect. While both forged their careers in
the Italian and French civil services and went on to run their
Treasuries, Draghi also spent more than three years at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and sat on its global management committee.  Draghi joined the ECB’s six-member Executive Board and
became president at a time of flux, with four members arriving
in the past year alone.  No U-Turns  Draghi and other new officials “are more open about the
options available, so it increases the probability of good
policies,” said  Erik Nielsen , chief economist at UniCredit in
London. When Trichet was in charge, “there was a view that
certain things just ‘won’t happen’ and that was that. That led
to some of the U-turns and we are likely see fewer of those
under Draghi.”  Draghi set the tone for his tenure at his first meeting as
president of the ECB’s 23-member Governing Council on Nov. 3.  Then as now, Spanish and Italian bond yields were close to
euro-era records,  Greece  was considering a potential euro
membership referendum, and pressure was mounting on the ECB to
cut interest rates and print money to put an end to the turmoil.  As Governing Council members prepared for the meeting, the
ECB’s economic staff advised no change in the  interest rate ,
which was then at 1.5 percent. As the conversation moved around
the table, consensus among the 23 central bankers began to
emerge towards a cut in the benchmark to 1.25 percent, according
to two people present, who declined to be named because such
meetings are private.  Draghi’s Surprise  Draghi refrained from showing his hand until late in the
meeting, contrasting with Trichet’s habit of steering the
discussion from the outset. Finally, he announced his support
for a quarter-point cut, surprising those around the table, and
all but four out of 55 economists in a  Bloomberg News survey  who
predicted no change.  Since then, Draghi has cut the benchmark further, taking it
to 0.75 percent, and reduced the return that banks get for
overnight deposits to zero for the first time ever.  “Draghi seems a little bit more flexible on changing
rates, including taking the deposit rate down to zero and
refinancing below 1 percent,” said  Julian Callow , chief European
economist at Barclays Plc in London. “So he is already proving
a little more flexible, in my view, and perhaps could be even
more so.”  As officials head to  Frankfurt  for tomorrow’s decision, the
stakes are at least as high as they were in November.  Masterplan  Bonds surged after Draghi’s comments last week and
investors now expect him to flesh out a coordinated plan with
governments to shore up Spanish and Italian bonds.  The proposal involves Europe’s rescue fund buying
 government bonds  on the primary market, buttressed by ECB
secondary-market purchases to ensure transmission of its record-
low interest rates, two central bank officials said July 27 on
condition of anonymity. Further ECB rate cuts and long-term
loans to banks are also up for discussion, one official said.  The risk is that Draghi disappoints investors and sparks a
selloff that leads to more turmoil, said  Athanasios Orphanides ,
who sat on the Governing Council until May.  Draghi’s comments in London were “not so much a verbal
intervention but a threat to the markets that if they don’t stop
attacking Spain, they will end up losing a lot of money,” he
said. “Expectations are so high now, the ECB will have to
announce something.”  Bond Purchases  Draghi has wrongfooted investors before. A month after
taking charge, he appeared to suggest the ECB would ramp up its
government-bond purchases if European leaders agreed on the
then-novel idea of a fiscal compact. That prompted Italy’s 10-
year bond yields to plunge, only for them to jump again when
Draghi said he was “surprised” at how his comments were taken.  Trichet also got himself into a tangle over bond purchases.
On May 6, 2010 he sparked a selloff when he brushed off
speculation that the ECB would embark on a bond-purchase
program. Four days later, the ECB unveiled just such a policy.  Draghi has tried to avoid missteps in an extremely fluid
crisis environment by not boxing in his options. Trichet often
staked out his position early on issues such as refusing to
countenance International Monetary Fund participation in
Greece’s bailout out or ruling out changing the ECB’s collateral
framework to help Greek banks secure access to funding. As the
crisis worsened, he was forced to abandon those positions.  Under Draghi, the ECB has been more flexible. In May,
Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen signalled in an interview
with Handelsblatt that Greece might have to leave the euro, a
notion that Trichet always ruled out.  Policy Shift  Last month, the ECB ended its opposition to forcing losses
on senior bondholders in euro-area banks, another policy
fiercely resisted under Trichet. The ECB supported such a move
at a meeting of euro-area finance ministers on July 9, according
to an official with knowledge of the ECB’s thinking.  A euro-region finance minister, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because his discussions with Draghi are private, said
the ECB president is more creative in implementing his mandate
than Trichet.  At the same time, Draghi’s predecessor was ready when
necessary to push the ECB into new territory. He was the first
global central banker to react to the seizing up of credit
markets on Aug. 9, 2007 and he initiated the ECB’s unprecedented
bond-purchase program.  “Let’s not forget that Trichet proved to be very
’pragmatic’ in steering through the Securities Markets Program
in the teeth of German opposition,” Barclays’s Callow said.  Change of Guard  Draghi’s promotion to the ECB presidency has coincided both
with a wider change of personnel at the institution and an
intensification of the crisis that demanded more pragmatism,
said Orphanides, who will start teaching at the  MIT Sloan School
of Management  in September. Asmussen, Benoit Coeure and Peter Praet have all joined the Executive Board in the past year.  “Maybe the change in composition has softened the board a
little bit and made changes easier,” he said.  Draghi might still succeed more than Trichet did in
prodding governments to participate in crisis fighting rather
than relying solely on the ECB, said UniCredit’s Nielsen, a
former Bank of Denmark official who has been monitoring the euro
project since its inception.  “Draghi’s relationship with Europe’s politicians is
probably better than Trichet’s,” Nielsen said. “Trichet had a
habit of lecturing them. Nobody really likes that.”  Crisis Fight  Draghi has secured endorsements of key leaders for his
crisis-fighting strategy. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Francois Hollande  echoed Draghi’s language
after a telephone conversation on July 27. The two largest euro-
area economies are “bound by the deepest duty” to keep the
currency bloc intact, they said in a joint statement.  One challenge for Draghi is just as daunting now as it was
under Trichet: getting the Bundesbank to support the most
radical measures devised to fight a crisis headed for its fourth
year. Former Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  and former ECB
Chief Economist  Juergen Stark  both quit in protest at the
institution’s first round of bond purchases. Weber’s successor,
Jens Weidmann has upheld opposition to the measure.  The speech in London will “not have helped the
relationship with the Bundesbank,” said Schulz at Berenberg.  Frank Schaeffler , a lawmaker in the Free Democrat party in
coalition with Merkel, said Draghi’s policies question his
inflation-fighting credentials.  ‘Dove in Hawk’s Clothing’  “Draghi was sold to the Germans as a hawk,” Schaeffler
said in an interview. “Now it becomes more and more evident
that he’s steeped in the Italian monetary policy traditions.
He’s a dove in hawk’s clothing.”  Schaeffler’s remarks signal the challenge Draghi still
faces in convincing officials from Germany, Europe’s biggest
economy, to play ball with his crisis response.  “Draghi can be as pragmatic as he wants to be, but he is
still facing the same nightmare as Trichet in terms of getting
the Germans on side,” said  James Nixon , who used to work for
the ECB and is now chief European economist at  Societe Generale 
in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  