-- Drax Won’t Raise Capital Spending Plan to Convert to Biomass
-- B y   J o s e p h i n e   F o r s t e r
-- 2012-07-31T16:07:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/drax-won-t-raise-capital-spending-forecast-to-convert-to-biomass.html
Drax Group Plc (DRX) , operator of Western
Europe’s largest coal-fired power plant, won’t raise a spending
forecast of as much as 700 million pounds ($1.1 billion) in
light of plans to convert three of its six generating units to
biomass.  Drax is ready to switch to mainly biomass generation after
“excellent progress” on research and development, Chief
Executive Officer Dorothy Thompson said today on a conference
call after the company released first-half  results . “The unit
conversion option is something we first asked for two years ago
and it is a great solution for Drax.”  The government’s decision to offer less financial support
than expected for a switch to burning low-carbon fuel prompted a
record 25 percent slump in Drax shares on July 25. That spurred
the company to announce plans to fully convert units rather than
opt to burn biomass, or wood and other plant matter, together
with coal in a process known as co-firing.  “The plans may well be challenging to achieve,” Angelos Anastasiou, an analyst at Investec Securities, said in an e-
mail. “We still believe that there are significant risks
here.”  Drax closed up 1 percent at 475.3 pence in  London .  The first unit will be converted in the second quarter of
2013, Thompson said, and the next a year later.  ‘Remain Confident’  “Although our central plan is now to progressively convert
three generating units fully to biomass, rather than enhanced
co-firing, we remain confident in the overall scale of the total
650 million-pound -- 700 million-pound strategic capital
investment plan set out in the 2011 annual report and
accounts,” Selby, England-based Drax said in a statement.  Co-firing of enhanced biomass with coal will get 0.5 to 0.9
of a ROC a megawatt-hour, depending on the fuel mix, the
government said last week. That’s less than the 1 ROC proposed
in an October draft last year. Support for full biomass
conversions was maintained at 1 ROC a megawatt-hour in a new
category.  “We welcome the government’s decision,” Thompson said.
“Most significantly, we have clarity on regulatory support for
sustainable biomass.”  First-half earnings fell 19 percent, reflecting weak
margins on contracts placed in 2011, the company said in today’s
statement. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization fell to 154 million pounds from 190 million pounds
a year earlier.  Making Allowances  Profits were in line with market expectations after making
allowances for 15 million pounds more in biomass research costs
than expected, Thompson said. The company will spend another 5
million pounds in this area in the second half, Drax said in its
statement.  The utility, whose plant is about 200 miles (322
kilometers) north of London, makes its profit largely from the
difference between the price of power and the price of coal,
after excluding costs for buying European Union emission permits
to offset carbon-dioxide emissions.  Drax said it will pay an interim dividend of 14.4 pence a
share.  “Biomass is make or break” for Drax, said  Lakis
Athanasiou , an independent equity analyst in London, with
today’s assurance “convincing” to investors. He estimated
shares will return to levels seen before the government’s ROC
banding announcement.  The speed of conversion will be “constrained by how fast
they can access biomass and build up the supply chain”, he
said. 