-- DreamWorks Trails Estimates on ‘Madagascar,’ Shares Slip
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2012-08-01T20:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/dreamworks-animation-misses-estimates-on-madagascar-3-sales.html
DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , the
independent film studio, fell the most since May after second-
quarter results missed analysts’ estimates on lower-than-
expected results related to “Madagascar 3.”  DreamWorks Animation tumbled 6.3 percent to $17.99 at the
close in  New York . The stock has gained 8.4 percent this year.  “Madagascar 3:  Europe ’s Most Wanted,” one of just two
DreamWorks Animation releases this year, has generated $501
million worldwide, according to researcher Box Office Mojo. That
lags behind 2011’s “Kung Fu Panda 2,” which had topped $600
million at this point. The movie is still opening in some
countries because of delays tied to the Olympics, Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Katzenberg  said.  “DreamWorks experienced some weaker performance on
international relative to expectations, partly because of
timing,”  Tony Wible , an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
in Philadelphia, who recommends selling the stock, said in an
interview.  The company’s distributor,  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s  Paramount
Pictures , also boosted marketing outlays, meaning less money for
DreamWorks Animation, Wible said.  Net income shrank 63 percent to $12.8 million, or 15 cents
a share, from $34.1 million, or 40 cents, a year earlier,
Glendale, California-based DreamWorks Animation said yesterday
in a  statement . Analysts projected 25 cents, the average of 11
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Second-quarter revenue fell 25 percent to $162.8 million,
missing analysts’  estimates  of $188.6 million.  Distribution Accord  “All of DreamWorks Animation’s sequels have surpassed $600
million at the worldwide box office and ‘Madagascar 3’ is on
track to do the same,” Katzenberg said on a conference call,
adding the company sees “considerable runway left here on the
film.”  The movie opened on June 8 in the U.S. and  Canada .  DreamWorks Animation expects to announce a new theatrical
distribution agreement with a major Hollywood studio by the U.S.
Labor Day holiday, according to Katzenberg. The studio has
mostly abandoned plans to self-distribute when its current
agreement with Paramount ends this year, he said.  Katzenberg, 61, also said Paramount has been accelerating
marketing expenditures, “in a way they haven’t done up until
now,” which delays DreamWorks’ receipts. “It’s timing issues,
nothing more,” he said on the call.  The company is taking steps to diversify beyond movies and
home entertainment, with efforts in television and live shows,
foreign investment and technology.  Tomorrow’s Marvel  Those include a wide-ranging venture in  China , plans for an
amusement park in  New Jersey  and the $155 million purchase last
month of Classic Media, owner of rights to cartoon characters
Casper the friendly ghost, Rocky the flying squirrel and his
pal, Bullwinkle the Moose.  Katzenberg likened the Classic Media portfolio of
characters to those of Marvel Comics 15 years ago, and said the
properties will help the company advance efforts to create a
DreamWorks branded television channel.  “I think we put some booster jets on the company,”
Katzenberg said.  He also said the company plans announcements in coming
months on initiatives in casual games, social media and
applications.  “On the positive side, these guys have articulated some
growth strategies,” Wible said. “The Classic Media purchase is
really interesting, especially the notion of crafting a
television channel, or a digital channel, as key way of
diversifying away from some of the risks plaguing the film
side.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Golum in Los Angeles at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  