-- Drought in U.S. Seen Prompting Record Crop-Insurer Payouts
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-07-31T16:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/drought-in-u-s-seen-prompting-record-payouts-from-crop-insurers.html
This year’s once-in-a-generation
U.S. drought may prompt record insurance payouts and still leave
some farmers with serious losses as indemnities rival those of a
1988 drought and a 1993 flood, the industry’s top lobbyist said.  The size of payouts will be known better in the next few
weeks, Tom Zacharias, the president of  National Crop Insurance
Services , said today at a Bloomberg Government breakfast. The
ratio of losses to premiums may be similar to those of the late
1980s and the 1990s, when floods and droughts paid out more than
$2 for every dollar in premiums, said Zacharias, who declined to
make an overall estimate. Premiums this year are close to $11
billion, Zacharias said.  Farmers who have already signed contracts to sell corn,
soybeans or wheat may have to repay buyers with their insurance
money after their crops fail, he said. Still, many farmers will
have financial strains lessened by the program, which has
replaced costly federal disaster bailouts, he said.  “In the absence of such a program, most of this would be
in the form of taxpayer support,” Zacharias said. “The concept
that farmers will be made whole through these indemnities is not
quite right.”  Facing Losses  With corn, soybean and wheat prices escalating along with
estimates of the drought’s severity, government-backed revenue-
insurance policies offered through units of companies such as
 Ace Ltd. (ACE)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  will be paying out billions of
dollars in claims, as the industry faces its first annual losses
since 2002. The program is designed so that the larger the
losses for insurers, the greater the share of the payouts the
government will pick up.  The government also takes a share of the profit when
premiums exceed payouts.  American Financial Group Inc. (AFG) , which sells crop insurance
along with property, casualty and supplemental health
protection, yesterday reduced its earnings guidance for the
year, saying the drought will lower profit. Evan Greenberg,
chairman and chief executive officer of Ace, said last week that
the dry conditions would affect second-half earnings, while
Wells Fargo said it’s too early to speculate on the droughts
effects on the company.  ‘Fantastical’ Notion  Keith Collins, a consultant to the crop insurance industry
and a former chief economist with the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture , rejected as “fantastical” the notion that farmers
may be better off collecting insurance than raising a crop.  “You can find a wide range of income indemnification”
depending on individual farmer situations, Collins said at the
breakfast. In cases where farmers have already committed to sell
their production and have to buy it back or break a contract,
“they turn an indemnification check over to their banker,” yet
still need to to cover seed and fertilizer expenses for the next
crop, he said.  In 2011, with a drought in  Texas  and other weather woes
around the country, government-run crop-insurance programs paid
out a record $10.8 billion. Of premiums paid that year, farmers
chipped in $4.5 billion, while the government paid $7.4 billion,
according to data  published  by the department.  Federal crop insurance dates to the Dust Bowl droughts of
the 1930s. The program and subsidies were boosted in 2000 as
lawmakers sought to use it as a way to avoid what by the 1980s
had become near-annual disaster payouts. Those payments cost
taxpayers $68.7 billion from 1989 to 2009, according to the
 Congressional Research Service .  National Crop Insurance Services is based in  Overland Park ,
 Kansas .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  