-- EDF Seeks Partners to Build U.K. Reactors as Debt Balloons
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-07-31T16:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/edf-seeks-partners-to-build-u-k-reactors-as-debt-balloons-1-.html
Electricite de France SA ,  Europe ’s
biggest power generator, said it’s seeking partners to help
finance new nuclear plants in the U.K. after debt swelled.  “We are considering the possibility of opening a little
more the capital of these projects by finding a partner,”
Senior Executive Vice President of Finance Thomas Piquemal said
today on a conference call. “We are considering a better means
to finance them and the best way to attract partners.”  EDF is studying building two new reactors at Hinkley Point
in southwest  England  and a further two at its Sizewell site in
eastern England. The decision to seek partners follows a 19
percent jump in debt in the first half and comes four months
after German utilities EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE)  scrapped a British
project, saying they couldn’t justify the capital expenditure.  While EDF wants to retain control of reactor ventures in
the U.K., that wouldn’t necessitate holding an 80 percent stake,
Piquemal said. The company will decide whether to move ahead
with new nuclear plants in Britain by the end of the year, Chief
Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  said today.  The U.K. is seeking to revive an expansion of nuclear power
to meet energy demand while reducing fuel imports and keeping a
lid on polluting emissions. EDF investment would be a boon to
the industry after EON and RWE abandoned their project in March.  Development Cost  The cost of a new generation of reactors may reach 60
billion pounds ($94 billion) if all proposed plants get built,
according to the U.K.’s  Nuclear Advanced Manufacturing Research
Centre . The new reactors at Hinkley Point would cost an
estimated 10 billion pounds.  EDF’s net financial debt rose to 39.7 billion euros ($48.8
billion) last month from 33.3 billion euros at the end of 2011
after spending commitments increased. Investments in  France  and
the U.K., as well as an obligation to finance renewable-power
subsidies in France, drove its debt ratio to 2.5 times earnings,
the “maximum limit” set by EDF, it said today in a statement.  “EDF is reconsidering its leverage factor target,” Credit
Agricole CIB Research analyst Damien de Saint Germain wrote in a
note. The utility “will have difficulties remaining below the
2.5 times limit.”  Net income climbed to 2.77 billion euros in the first half
from 2.65 billion euros a year earlier, the statement showed.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
rose 4.6 percent to 9.1 billion euros, beating the 8.65 billion-
euro median estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  EDF advanced 1.7 percent to 16.87 euros in Paris trading.  Guidance Cut  Higher hydropower output in EDF’s home market helped
counter lower nuclear production. The company reduced its
forecast for full-year atomic-power volumes in France, where it
needs to invest an estimated 10 billion euros over six years to
improve safety under measures ordered by the regulator after the
2011 Fukushima meltdown in  Japan .  EDF plans to review costs and investments outside those on
nuclear safety improvements and maintenance by the end of the
year, it said. The utility had said in February investment could
reach as much as 15 billion euros in 2015, compared with 10.5
billion euros last year.  “It’s possible,” this figure will be cut as part of the
review, Piquemal said. “Details will be given in February.”  Ebitda Expectation  The company reiterated targets for average annual  Ebitda
growth (EDF)  of 4 percent to 6 percent to 2015, and annual growth in
net income excluding non-recurring items of 5 percent to 10
percent. Dividends will be “at least stable” this year, while
debt will drop below 2.5 times Ebitda through 2015, it said.  France’s so-called CSPE tax on electricity bills, intended
to pay for the higher costs of producing renewable power, has
resulted in a shortfall for EDF because it isn’t high enough to
cover costs. The tax accounted for 4.5 billion euros of EDF’s
debt at the end of June, according to a company presentation.  Talks have started with the government on “problems posed
by the CSPE,” Piquemal said today. “We think we have solutions
to solve the problem.”  The utility cut its full-year French nuclear output target
to 415 terawatt-hours from a previous forecast of 420 to 425
terawatt-hours. Work on plants for “additional verifications”
will prolong shutdowns in the second half, Piquemal said. U.K.
atomic output will be higher this year than last, he said.  French nuclear output dropped by 10.6 terawatt-hours in the
first half from a year earlier because of maintenance, safety
inspections and unplanned outages at plants. Hydroelectric power
production rose by 5.9 terawatt-hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  