-- EDF Renegotiates Edison’s Natural-Gas Contracts to Italy
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-07-31T11:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/edf-renegotiates-edison-s-natural-gas-contracts-to-italy-1-.html
Electricite de France SA is
renegotiating  Edison SpA (EDN) ’s natural-gas import contracts to
Italy, according to Chief Financial Officer Thomas Piquemal.  “There are considerable stakes for the group” attached to
these talks, he said on a conference call today. Deals with
Qatar and  Libya  could be reached before the end of the year
while talks with  Algeria  may end next year, he said.  New import contracts could give the Italian power producer
an extra 600 million euros ($737 million) in earnings, according
to a 2012 forecast, Piquemal confirmed. Edison renegotiated
long-term import deals with Russia and  Norway  last year.  EDF is making a general offer for shares in Edison through
Aug. 3. The French nuclear operator plans to center its natural
gas strategy in  Italy  following the takeover of Edison. EDF has
yet to decide whether Edison will remain listed in Italy.  “We are waiting for the results to decide what we will do,
whether we will continue to list it or not,” Piquemal said,
referring to the ongoing general offer. The French utility is
expected to hold more than 90 percent of Edison at the end of
the offer.  Edison, Italy’s second-largest gas company, had about 1.4
million customers at the end of June and bought 15 billion cubic
meters of natural gas last year, according to a presentation on
EDF’s  website . The utility has a net power generation capacity
of 7.7 gigawatts, three quarters of which from gas-fired plants.  The Edison takeover shaved 51 million euros net of tax off
EDF earnings and added 2.4 billion euros to EDF’s debt at the
end of June, according to an EDF presentation today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  