-- Lehman Raises $4.7 Billion in Second Quarter for Payment
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-07-31T15:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/lehman-raises-4-7-billion-in-second-quarter-for-payment.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the
defunct investment bank, has $8.2 billion of cash available for
creditor payments after raising $4.7 billion in the second
quarter from real estate sales, derivatives and settlement of a
lawsuit.  Overseen by a new board since its emergence from bankruptcy
in March, Lehman plans semi-annual distributions, including a
second payment to creditors in September, and is “focused” on
maximizing cash for that purpose, it said in a regulatory filing
yesterday. Allowed claims for payment have been cut to $303
billion from $1.3 trillion originally, with another $58 billion
that may be deemed valid, out of disputed claims of $193
billion, Lehman said.  Lehman has said it aims to raise $53 billion through 2016
or so, to pay an average of 18 cents on the dollar on final
claims of $300 billion. The company filed the biggest bankruptcy
in U.S. history in September 2008, listing debt of $613 billion.
It made its first payment of $22.5 billion to creditors last
April, about 3 ½ years after its collapse.  “The company continues to pursue the objective of value
maximization and prompt cash distributions to creditors through
the execution of an orderly wind down process and the judicious
and timely resolution of claims,” Lehman said in the filing.  Targets for Cuts  Among creditors targeted for cuts through litigation are
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Lehman said. It has
reached an agreement in principle with its former brokerage,
 Lehman Brothers Inc ., that would resolve disputes over mutual
claims, it said.  Lehman and its affiliates had $21.9 billion in cash and
investments on June 30, with $13.7 billion of it reserved for
disputed claims, taxes, and other obligations, including a $2
billion deposit with Citigroup. A $504 million reserve for the
company’s thrifts, may be freed up soon, Lehman said.  The company said last week its  cash flow  may reach $40.5
billion through 2015 and beyond, or $6 billion more than
previously anticipated. The number excludes estimates from
litigation and other potential inflows, while including the
$22.5 billion already paid to creditors.  Lehman paid advisers $16.4 million in June, bringing total
fees to more than $1.7 billion since it failed. Its chief
bankruptcy law firm, Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP, made $6 million
in June, bringing total fees from Lehman work to $419 million.  Lehman, run by Chief Executive Officer Richard Fuld when
its collapse helped bring on the worst economic slump since the
Great Depression, settled a fight with creditors in a payment
plan that allotted more money to derivatives claimants including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and less to bondholders such as Paulson
& Co. Both groups proposed rival plans to pay Lehman’s debt.  Lehman failed because of too much debt and risky real
estate investments, according to a bankruptcy examiner’s report.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 