-- HeidelbergCement Targets Higher Margins After Profit Rises
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-07-31T08:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/heidelbergcement-targets-higher-margins-after-profit-increases.html
HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the world’s
third-largest maker of cement, plans to improve profitability
with two cost-cutting initiatives after higher demand in the
U.S. and  Indonesia  boosted second-quarter earnings and sales.  HeidelbergCement aims to widen cement margins in  Europe  and
 North America  by improving pricing and training its sales force,
the Heidelberg, Germany-based company said today. Operating
income rose 7 percent to 698 million euros ($657 million) in the
quarter, beating a 679 million-euro estimate by analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Chief Executive Officer Bernd Scheifele is sticking to a
goal for higher revenue and operating profit this year as rising
demand in North America and  Asia  counters a “slight” drop in
Western and northern Europe. The results echo those of larger
competitor  Lafarge SA (LG) , which last week reported better-than-
expected earnings amid cost cuts and demand outside of Europe.  “The fact that they are following up with two new
efficiency programs shows they are on the right course,” said
Marc Gabriel, an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe KG, who has a
“hold” rating on the stock. “The development in the U.S. and
in Asia was good.”  The shares fell as much as 1.08 euros, or 2.8 percent, to
37.51 euros in Frankfurt, and traded at 37.68 euros as of 10
a.m. The stock has The stock has gained 15 percent this year for
a market value of 7.1 billion euros.  Investors expectations for net income were too high,
Gabriel said. Net income gained 16 percent to 184 million euros
in the quarter, missing a 190.9 million-euro analyst estimate.
Sales advanced 11 percent to 3.78 billion euros, ahead of a 3.67
billion-euro estimate, according to a Bloomberg survey.  One of the cost initiatives will combine material-flow
systems across the three main business units and may save 150
million euros by 2014, HeidelbergCement said today. The
manufacturer didn’t give a savings figure for the training
initiative, designed to improve cement margins.  An existing program to generate savings of 200 million
euros this year is ahead of schedule and led to an improvement
in cash flow of 138 million euros in the first half, the cement
maker said.  The company generated more cash from operations in the
quarter, which helped reduce net debt to 8.12 billion euros at
the end of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in  Frankfurt  at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  