-- Einhorn Says GM, Marvell Poised to Rebound
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   S t e v e n   N o r t o n
-- 2012-07-31T14:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/einhorn-says-gm-marvell-poised-to-rebound.html
Hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn 
said  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  are
poised to rebound after declining since March 31.  There is “further embedded value in some of the longs that
have underperformed in the quarter, including General Motors and
 Marvell Technology ,” Einhorn said today in a conference call
discussing investments at  Greenlight Capital Re Ltd. (GLRE) , the Cayman
Islands-based reinsurer where he is chairman. Both companies
trade at low valuations relative to earnings and have “strong
cash positions,” he said.  Einhorn uses the reinsurer to generate funds for bets on
gains and declines in securities. Greenlight Re had so-called
long investments, or bullish wagers, of $1.23 billion as of June
30, compared with $1.05 billion on Dec. 31, the firm said in a
filing yesterday.  “Although our net exposure has increased a bit as we’ve
found compelling bottom-up, long investment opportunities, we
remain cautious about the macro headwinds,” he said. “The
European crisis appears to have no simple solution, while most
large economies including  China  and the U.S. appear to be
slowing down.”  GM, the world’s largest automaker, climbed 1.1 percent to
$19.57 at 10:49 a.m. in  New York  trading. The company slumped 23
percent in the second quarter. Marvell added 0.6 percent to
$11.40. The Bermuda-based developer of circuits for
communications markets dropped 28 percent in the three months
ended June 30.  GM’s Cash  The automaker’s share price is 5.4 times earnings over the
past year, compared with a ratio of 14 for firms in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index during the same period, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. The Detroit-based company had more than
$30 billion in  cash  and marketable securities as of March 31.
Marvell’s price-to-earnings ratio is 12.  Greenlight Re’s  net loss  widened in the second quarter to
$36.1 million from $16 million a year earlier as investment
results worsened amid a decline in equity markets. Bets on
falling stocks, including a wager against  Green Mountain Coffee
Roasters Inc. (GMCR) , aided investment results.  “While our shorts went down more than the market, our
longs also went down more than the market and gave back some of
the first-quarter gains,” Einhorn said.  The reinsurer fell 4 cents to $23.46 and has slipped less
than 1 percent this year. Einhorn and his hedge fund Greenlight
Capital Inc. are known for shorting Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. before it collapsed in September 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Norton in New York at 
 snorton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  