-- Electronic Arts Rises After Loss Is Smaller Than Expected
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-08-01T17:41:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/electronic-arts-1q-sales-of-491-million-miss-estimates.html
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , trading near
lows not seen since March 1999, climbed as much as 7.8 percent
after reporting a smaller quarterly loss than analysts expected
and saying it would buy back as much as $500 million in stock.  The second-largest U.S. video-game maker, based in  Redwood
City ,  California ,  rose  2.1 percent to $11.25 at 1:28 p.m.  New
York  time, after reaching $11.88. Electronic Arts, publisher of
the “Madden NFL” and “Battlefield” titles, had retreated 47
percent this year through yesterday as the company grappled with
a consumer shift toward online play.  Chief Executive Officer John Riccitiello is adding online
games to reduce the company’s reliance on sales through retail
stores, which have fallen as consumers boost Internet play. The
company yesterday announced an agreement with Tokyo-based  Nexon
Co. (3659)  to distribute “EA Sports FIFA Online 3” in  South Korea ,
and named former  Yahoo Inc. (YHOO)  executive Blake Jorgensen chief
financial officer, citing his e-commerce experience.  “We’re pretty comfortable with the quarter and saw
strength in the digital growth strategy,” interim Chief
Financial Officer Ken Barker, who will return to his role as
chief accounting officer, said in an interview yesterday.
“We’re seeing the benefit of having a 365-day relationship with
consumers.”  In the first quarter, the company lost 41 cents a share,
excluding some items, less than the 42-cent loss estimated by
analysts. Sales, excluding changes in deferred revenue, fell 6.3
percent to $491 million in the period ended June 30, Electronics
Arts said in a statement. Analysts projected $501.6 million, the
average of 19 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Plants, Zombies  Adjusted profit excludes costs for stock-based
compensation, acquisitions and restructuring. Net income in the
first quarter fell 9 percent to $201 million, the company said.  Electronic Arts released the online game “Battlefield 3
Premium” in the quarter and sold more than 1.3 million
subscriptions. Because of accounting rules, the company can’t
begin recording sales until its fourth quarter, Barker said.  The company would have exceeded analysts’ average estimates
for sales by $26 million, or 5 percent, if it had been able to
log the revenue in the quarter,  Arvind Bhatia , an analyst with
Sterne Agree & Co., said in a research note today.  ‘Diversified Model’  “It appears EA’s diversified model is helping it in the
ongoing industry transition,” said Bhatia, who recommends
investors buy the shares.  Sales also suffered after “Secret World,” another online
game, was delayed from the first quarter to the second,
according to Barker.  The company released no packaged titles in the first
quarter. Digital sales rose 37 percent to $78 million, after the
company bought PopCap games one year ago, the publisher of
“Plants vs. Zombies” and “Bejeweled” on Facebook.  Electronic Arts has struggled to create an online hit that
can challenge larger rival  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) ’s “World of
Warcraft.”  Doug Creutz , an analyst with Cowen & Co. LLC, lowered his
estimate for subscribers to the massive multiplayer online game
“ Star Wars : The Old Republic” by half, to 500,000 by year-end
from 1 million, in a July 30 research note.  “Last year we announced that the break-even point was
roughly 500,000 subscribers,” Frank D. Gibeau, president of EA
Labels, said on the conference call. “While we are well above
that today, that is not good enough.”  Pricing Change  In November, the company will move to a two-tiered pricing
model for the game. People who pay $14.99 monthly will get full
access to content and advanced features, while others will be
allowed to play for free and purchase upgrades through in-game
currency, the company said.  In the current second quarter, Electronic Arts said it
expects adjusted revenue of $1.05 billion to $1.1 billion,
compared with analyts’s estimates of $1.08 billion. The company
expects a profit of 7 cents to 12 cents a share, excluding
items, compared with analysts’ estimate of 13 cents.  For the full year, the company said profit will be $1.05 to
$1.20 a share. Analysts are projecting a profit of $1.08.
Adjusted sales will total $4.1 billion to $4.25 billion, below
the company’s prior forecast of $4.3 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  