-- Emerging Stocks Climb for a Fourth Day on Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-07-31T21:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/emerging-stocks-advance-to-2-month-high-on-stimulus-speculation.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
fourth day on speculation central banks from the U.S. and  Europe 
will take measures to bolster economic growth.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.4 percent to
952.49, the most since July 5. Brazil’s Bovespa stock index
dropped from an 11-week high, pushed lower by phone company Tim
Participacoes SA.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , which gets more than
a third of its sales in America and Europe, capped its biggest
four-day rally this year.  Policy makers at the U.S. Federal Reserve began a two-day
meeting today, looking for new stimulus measures as the
 International Monetary Fund  said Europe’s debt crisis is likely
to be prolonged. Reports today showed South Korea’s industrial
production fell for the first time in three months and Taiwan’s
gross domestic product unexpectedly shrank. Last week, European
leaders had resolved to do whatever it takes to protect the
euro.  “The big signal for a risk rally will come from a strong
policy response,” said Mohamed Saidi, a Brussels-based  fund
manager  at Dexia Asset Management, which oversees about $860
million of equity assets in developing nations. “Emerging
markets have been doing quite well on the back of more positive
euro sentiment, starting with the words of  Mario Draghi  on
Thursday. On top of that, there is expectation of monetary
stimulus from the U.S.”  ETF Gains  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, dropped 0.5
percent to $39.12. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, rose for a second day,
increasing 2.8 percent to 26.96.  Brazil’s Bovespa Index lost 2 percent, the most in a week,
with Tim Participacoes declining 5.8 percent after saying
second-quarter net income slid 0.9 percent.  U.S. personal spending was unchanged after a 0.1 percent
decrease the prior month that was previously reported as little
changed, a Commerce Department report showed today in
 Washington .  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values in 20 cities
decreased 0.7 percent from May 2011, a sign that the housing
market is stabilizing. It was the smallest 12-month fall since
September 2010, after dropping 1.8 percent in the year ended
April, the group said today in  New York .  Technology Stocks  A gauge of technology companies led  advances  in the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)  Tech stocks from developing markets
gained 2.1 percent today, extending this year’s advance to 9.7
percent. Shares in the emerging-markets index trade at 10.5
times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI World Index’s
multiple of 12.6, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Russia’s Micex Index lost 1.5 percent, halting a four-day
rally. South Africa’s FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index fell 1
percent, retreating from a record high yesterday.  South Korea’s  Kospi index  jumped 2.1 percent, the most
among Asian benchmark gauges. Taiwan’s Taiex Index added 1.6
percent and the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland
companies listed in Hong Kong rose 1.6 percent, its third day of
gains. India’s  Sensex Index (SENSEX)  increased 0.5 percent.  Samsung Electronics added 2.7 percent, extending its four-
day advance to 13 percent. Second-quarter earnings last week
boosted its profit outlook, Shin Hyun Joon, an analyst at Dongbu
Securities Co., said by phone today.  Catcher Technology Co., a casing maker, tumbled 6.8 percent
in Taipei. Credit Suisse Group AG cut the stock to underperform,
saying the company faces increasing earnings risk from
competition. Citigroup Inc. lowered the stock to neutral.  Sany Heavy Equipment International Holdings Co. Ltd. (631) ,
China’s biggest maker of excavators, jumped 8.9 percent, the
most in nine months in  Hong Kong , after saying it plans to buy
back its own shares over the next six months and that its
financial position and outlook “remain healthy.”  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 342, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  