-- Emmis Preferred Shareholders Fight Bylaw Changes
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   H o w a r d   S m u l e v i t z
-- 2012-07-31T23:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/emmis-preferred-shareholders-fight-bylaw-changes.html
Emmis Communication Corp. (EMMS) , the owner
of  radio stations  in cities including  New York  and  Los Angeles ,
faced opposition from preferred shareholders in federal court
who claim bylaw changes would eliminate their dividends.  Investors including Corre Opportunities Fund LP today asked
U.S. District Judge Sarah Evans Barker in Indianapolis for an
order blocking an Aug. 14 special meeting. Emmis shareholders
are to be asked to approve bylaw changes that would wipe out
more than $34 million in accrued and unpaid preferred stock
dividends. The proposal would also eliminate such dividends in
the future, as well as the preferred stockholders’ ability to
elect directors, according to a proxy statement.  All of this, Corre alleged in court papers, is a prelude to
Emmis Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Smulyan’s plan to take the
ninth-biggest U.S. radio station operator private through means
that violate state and federal disclosure laws.  “Our contention all along has just been leave us alone,”
John Barrett, managing partner of New York-based Corre Partners
Management LLC, which controls the plaintiff fund, said in a
phone interview last week.  Smulyan told the court today he isn’t trying to take the
Indianapolis-based company private. Emmis attorneys in court
papers contend the CEO intends only to increase its share value.
Emmis rose 8 cents to $2.23 in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading .  The company faced delisting in February while its share
price was below $1, according to the proxy statement, which was
circulated among its investors ahead of the Aug. 14 meeting.  Unpaid Dividends  With a market capitalization of about $87 million, Emmis
has more than 41 million shares of stock outstanding, 2.8
million of which are preferred shares whose holders are
currently entitled to automatic dividends.  Those dividends, worth 6.25 percent of the preferred
shares’ $50 liquidation value, or $3.125, haven’t been paid
since October 2008, the investors said in a court filing.
Including those unpaid dividends, each preferred share is worth
$62.12, according to the proxy.  That lack of dividend payment, the company said in court
papers, was the result of a bargain struck with senior debt
holders in August 2009 when Emmis needed to amend loan terms.  “Emmis properly disclosed what was appropriate to disclose
in a timely way,” the company said in a May 29 court filing
opposing the investors’ request.  ‘Every Constituency’  “Emmis management is fulfilling its responsibility,”
attorney Richard Kempf told Barker at today’s hearing. “It’s
impossible for every constituency to be satisfied.”  The Emmis CEO testified for about 15 minutes today.  “Do you intend to go private?” Emmis attorney Steven
Shockley asked him.  “No I don’t,” Smulyan replied. “I’m worn out from two
years ago. I just don’t want to do it. I can’t foresee a
situation in which that would change.”  Smulyan owns almost 60 percent of Emmis’s common stock and
controls votes for almost 67 percent of the preferred shares,
meaning the votes will probably go in his favor, according to
the proxy statement.  Some of that preferred shareholder control was accomplished
by way of total return swaps, under which the company created
“zombie shares” by effectively repurchasing the voting power
over those shares via irrevocable proxy for about $15 each
without officially retiring the shares, in violation of  Indiana 
law, the suing investors claimed in court filings.  Rendered Worthless  Testifying for the preferred stockholders today, Barrett
told the court that Emmis Chief Operating Officer Patrick Walsh
warned him last year Corre risked its investment being rendered
worthless if it didn’t participate in the swaps program.  Barrett said he came away from that conversation believing
Walsh had effectively said, “I’m going to annihilate you.”  Later, Kempf questioned Walsh about Barrett’s account.  “Did you intend to threaten him?” the attorney asked.  Walsh replied that he did not.  “There’s no coercion. I’m not allowed to coerce,” he
said.  Walsh told the court he believed he had had a pleasant
conversation with Barrett and that Barrett had inquired about
the possibility of trading preferred stock for common stock and
that he had told the Corre executive no.  He said he asked Barrett if he was trying to sell his stock
and that Barrett replied he liked the company and wasn’t selling
his shares.  ‘Just Enough’  In asking Barker for an order blocking the Aug. 14 vote,
Corre and the other investors said Emmis, Smulyan and other
board members have acquired “just enough” preferred shares, or
control of votes represented by those shares, to vote them
against the interests of the class.  “Absent a preliminary injunction, plaintiffs and other
preferred shareholders will be permanently eliminated from
Emmis’s capital structure,” they said.  Today’s proceedings ended without a ruling by Barker. She
will hear argument from lawyers for both sides tomorrow.  The case is Corre Opportunity Fund LP v. Emmis
Communications Corp., 12-cv-00491, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Indiana (Indianapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Smulevitz in Indianapolis federal court
at  shsmulevitz@sbcglobal.net ;
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  