-- Employment Costs in the U.S. Increased 0.5% in Second Quarter
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-07-31T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/employment-costs-in-the-u-s-increased-0-5-in-second-quarter.html
Employment expenses in the U.S. rose
slightly in the second quarter amid high unemployment,
presenting little threat that wage pressures will stoke
inflation.  The employment cost index increased 0.5 percent, matching
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey, following a 0.4
percent gain in the prior quarter, Labor Department figures
showed today.  With almost 13 million people out of work in the U.S.,
businesses have been able to avoid raising salaries, while weak
consumer demand has blunted the need to increase payrolls. U.S.
central bankers have said that slow income growth will help keep
inflation at or below their target of 2 percent. The Federal
Reserve cut its estimates for 2012 growth last month after a
slowdown in hiring, and predicted little progress on
unemployment during the rest of the year.  “Wage growth has slowed very sharply. In real terms, we’re
actually negative,” said  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S. economist at
RBC Capital Markets LLC in  New York  before today’s report.
“Consumer fundamentals are not very sound right now. Aggregate
demand is softening,”  Bloomberg Survey  Projections from 49 economists ranged from increases of
0.3 percent to 0.8 percent. The employment cost index measures
companies’ costs of wages, benefits and employer-paid taxes such
as Social Security and Medicare.  The Labor Department on Aug. 3 is expected to report a
payroll increase of 100,000 workers, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of economists, following an 80,000 gain in June. The
pace of hiring probably won’t be enough to reduce the U.S.
jobless rate, which has been stuck above 8 percent for more than
three years.  Federal Reserve  policy makers will meet ahead of
Friday’s report to decide whether additional stimulus is needed
to combat a slowing economy.  Wages and salaries, which account for about 70 percent of
total employment costs, rose 0.4 percent in the second quarter,
after a 0.5 percent gain in the prior three months, today’s
report showed. Wages increased 1.7 percent from the same quarter
last year.  For state and local governments, workers’ wages rose 0.3
percent, following a previous-quarter increase of 0.4 percent.  Benefit Costs  Benefit costs for all workers, which include some bonuses,
severance pay, health insurance and paid vacations, rose 0.6
percent. Compared with the same three months in 2011, benefit
expenses were up 2.1 percent.  Among companies, total compensation costs rose 0.5 percent
in the second quarter, compared with a 0.4 percent gain in the
prior quarter.  “Employer costs for health benefits decelerated over the
year to a 2.4 percent increase, down from the June 2011 increase
of 3.6 percent,” the Labor Department said of private industry
workers in a news release.  Some companies are preparing for increased labor costs as a
result of minimum wage increases and changes in U.S. health care
law.  “We are seeing wage pressure in virtually every market
around the world,” said Peter Bensen, chief financial officer
for  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest restaurant chain,
based in  Oak Brook ,  Illinois .  “If you go into  Europe , not only are our wages increasing,
but some of the austerity measures in Europe include additional
social charges and additional payroll-type taxes that are
putting pressure on the wage rates,” Bensen said on a July 23
earnings call. “And in  Asia , a lot has been written about  China 
and the pressure on wages there. So we’re experiencing wage
pressure there as well. So, it’s clearly a global phenomenon for
us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  