-- Enbridge Near 30-Year High on Earnings Growth
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   B r a d   O l s o n
-- 2012-07-31T13:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/enbridge-near-30-year-high-on-earnings-growth.html
Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , the largest
transporter of Canadian crude to the U.S., is trading at its
highest level in almost three decades as it shakes off criticism
over oil spills, delays in new crude routes and valuation
concerns.  Enbridge last week  reached  its highest point since Jan. 5,
1983, giving it a price-to-earnings ratio of 40, better than 81
percent of its global  peers . With a market capitalization of
C$33.1 billion ($33.0 billion), the Calgary-based company has
the second-highest value among large stocks in the Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Composite Index, behind only  Crescent Point Energy
Corp. (CPG) , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There have been a couple of stumbles along the way with
high profile leaks, but they have not stemmed the tide of strong
earnings and strong dividend growth,” said Randle Smith, a
Chicago-based portfolio manager with Duff & Phelps Investment
Management Co. who helps manage $4.9 billion of global utilities
and infrastructure investments, including more than 2 million
Enbridge shares.  Enbridge’s shares have shrugged off a series of pipeline
leaks, including a 2010 spill in  Michigan  that polluted the
 Kalamazoo River  with more than 20,000 barrels of crude and cost
$800 million to clean up and a more recent spill on July 27 that
leaked 1,200 barrels near Grand Marsh,  Wisconsin . The company is
also facing opposition to its proposed C$5.5 billion Northern
Gateway route to carry oil sands crude to the Pacific coast
through British Columbia.  Largest Network  Enbridge already owns and operates  Canada ’s largest oil
pipeline network spanning 24,600 kilometers (15,285 miles) that
ships more than 2.3 million barrels of crude oil and liquids a
day. It is counting on growing demand for the  fossil fuel  in
 Asia  and Canada’s ability to supply the region from its oil
sands reserves, the world’s third largest.  It has C$17 billion worth of secured projects in design or
construction, including renewable energy development and
pipelines such as its partnership with  Enterprise Products
Partners LP. (EPD)  The companies are reversing and expanding the
Seaway pipeline brings which oil from the Oklahoma storage hub
to refineries on the U.S.  Gulf Coast , President Al Monaco said
in a  presentation  in Calgary on July 11.  Enbridge’s growth track record and its assets in  North
America , where new technologies have unlocked vast quantities of
oil and natural gas that will need to move across the continent
via pipelines, will keep investors loyal, Smith said in a
telephone interview.  Sell Rating  “This is a company that has promised 10 percent earnings
growth and 10 percent dividend growth every year, and they’ve
been able to deliver that pretty consistently,” he said.  Darryl McCoubrey, an analyst at Vertias Investment Research
Co. in Toronto, isn’t convinced of Enbridge’s growth prospects.
The company may lose some pipeline customers to crosstown
competitor  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , which is proposing to build the
Keystone XL pipeline to the Gulf coast while at the same time
demand for oil is stagnating in the U.S., McCoubrey said.  “What has been driving growth over the past few years has
been liquids pipelines and that growth is unlikely to be
available in the coming years,” said McCoubrey, who has a sell
rating on Enbridge shares and doesn’t own any. “The supply and
demand alone of liquids is enough to make me skeptical.”  Enbridge shares have been over-priced for a while, said
McCoubrey. “I’ve been on the wrong end of that call,” he said.  The shares have gained 9.2 percent this year, beating the
3.7 percent decline for the  S&P/TSX Energy Index. (STENRS)  The stock has
12 buy  ratings,  four holds and two sells.  Northern Gateway  Enbridge reports second-quarter results on Aug. 2 and is
expected to say that adjusted earnings per share rose to 38
cents from 35 cents a year earlier, according to the average of
14  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The Northern Gateway pipeline, a 1,177-kilometer conduit
across the  Rocky Mountains , has stirred controversy and provoked
opposition among aboriginal groups living along the proposed
route.  “How can we trust Enbridge to build two pipelines safely
across nearly 800 rivers and streams in  Alberta  and British
Columbia?” Nikki Skuce, a campaigner for environmental group
 ForestEthics , said in an e-mail. “This company cannot be
trusted with our wild salmon rivers.”  The proposed pipeline will terminate in the town of
Kitimat, on the Pacific coast of British Columbia. The area is
home to killer whales, salmon streams and farms and other marine
life. An oil spill on the coast would involve a complicated
clean up, reminiscent of the Exxon Valdez disaster on the
Alaskan coast in 1989, according to the  Pembina Institute , a
Canadian environmental research organization.  Other Projects  Graham White , Enbridge spokesman, referred questions over
pipeline safety to Chief Executive Officer Pat Daniel at this
week’s conference call on Aug. 2.  “People should not link the fortunes of Enbridge to
Gateway by any means,” Daniel said in an April 12 interview
with Bloomberg News.  The company is developing four other projects that will
have comparable costs for Enbridge to the Northern Gateway
pipeline, he said. Enbridge partners will help finance the cost
of Northern Gateway.  The cost of Enbridge’s plan to ship crude from Canada’s oil
sands and  North Dakota ’s Bakken formation to Texas refineries
will cost $5.2 billion. The company’s plan to reverse and expand
a network of pipelines extending east will cost $3.2 billion,
and expansion plans in Alberta are expected to cost $3.7
billion, spokeswoman  Jennifer Varey  said.  Safety Play  Growth prospects aren’t the only factors driving the stock,
said Juan Plessis, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Corp. in
 Vancouver  who has a buy rating on the stock. Enbridge and other
utilities and pipeline companies often compete with fixed income
and the company provides investors with stable dividends as well
as growth, he said.  “It’s a very stable investment,” he said in an interview.
“They have a great growth profile and track record of putting
assets into operation. There’s also good growth going forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  