-- Tepco Under State Control as Government Gets Shares for Cash
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-07-31T06:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/tepco-under-state-control-as-government-gets-shares-for-cash.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  received 1
trillion yen ($12.8 billion) from the government in return for
giving up corporate control to the state after the Fukushima
disaster left the utility on the brink of bankruptcy.  The company, which supplies electricity to about 30 million
customers in the Tokyo metropolitan area, is under “temporary
public control” as the government-backed Nuclear Damage
Liability Facilitation Fund obtained preferred shares, President
Naomi Hirose said today in a statement.  Known as Tepco, the utility has been on government support
with taxpayers funds since the March 11, 2011 quake and tsunami
crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station, causing three
meltdowns and radiation leaks that forced about 160,000 people
to evacuate.  “We are sorry and take very seriously” that taxpayers
will have to bear the costs of the capital infusion, Hirose said
in the statement. “We will do our best to become ‘a newborn
Tepco.’”  Decommissioning costs for the three melted reactor cores
may reach 1.15 trillion yen, according to a government estimate
in October. In May, Tepco said compensation payments to those
affected by the disaster may total 2.55 trillion yen. The
utility and the bailout fund said in a turnaround plan they
can’t estimate the costs to clean up neighboring contaminated
areas around the plant.  Can’t Imagine  “I can’t imagine how much Tepco will need for clean-up and
decommissioning” at Fukushima, Hirofumi Kawachi, a Tokyo-based
energy analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co., said today by
phone. “Tepco may need more government funds.”  Tepco reported a net loss of 782 billion yen last fiscal
year which followed a 1.25 trillion yen deficit in the year
ended March 2011 due to costs from the Fukushima disaster.
Shares in Tepco have plunged about 94 percent since the day
before the disaster in March 2011.  Ownership of the preferred shares give the state-owned
compensation fund 50.11 percent voting rights, as announced
earlier, spokesman Masateru Araki said today by phone.  Japan ’s government approved the effective nationalization
of Tepco in May. Last week, the state endorsed the utility’s
request to raise electricity rates for households and small
users by an average of 8.46 percent.  As the government trimmed Tepco’s plan to raise household
tariffs by 10.28 percent, the company’s annual revenue will be
about 84 billion yen lower than it expected, according to Tepco.
The lower rate may delay the utility’s goal to return to profit
in the year ending March 2014.  The rate increase and the government’s investment are
milestones required by banks to extend additional loans to
Tepco, which was once the world’s largest private power
supplier, according to the book “ The Nuclear Barons ” by Peter
Pringle and James Spigelman.  Tepco expects to receive additional bank loans “soon,”
spokesman Araki said. He declined to be more specific on the
timing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  