-- Erste Cuts Outlook as Profit Drops on Romania Writedown
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-07-31T15:55:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/erste-cuts-outlook-as-profit-drops-on-romania-writedown.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , eastern
 Europe ’s third-biggest western lender, cut its outlook for the
second time in three months after its money-losing Romanian unit
caused a 46 percent drop in second-quarter profit.  Operating results will “stay somewhat behind” last year’s
level because of lower revenue from lending and fees, the
Vienna-based bank said in a statement today. It last reduced its
forecast April 30, when it said profit on that basis would be
“stable” after 3.63 billion euros ($4.5 billion) in 2011,
instead of rising.  “We have revised our forecast slightly downwards this
year,” Erste Chief Executive Officer Andreas Treichl told
analysts in a conference call today. “The main reason for this
is that the environment, the macro trends in our region have
deteriorated again. We now have two countries in the region, the
Czech Republic and  Hungary , with a slight contraction.”  Romania , where Erste owns the biggest bank, Banca
Comerciala Romana, and Hungary, where it owns the second-
biggest, last year caused Erste’s first loss since at least 1988
and are holding back the group’s profit recovery. In both
countries, about one in four loans on its book are delinquent,
due to bad loans for real estate and to mortgages denominated in
foreign currencies. Credit is shrinking in Hungary, where the
economy is contracting this year, and stagnant in Romania, which
entered the second recession in three years in the first
quarter.  Shares Fall  Erste  fell  3.6 percent to 14.73 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Vienna, snapping four days of advances. It was one of
the worst performers in the 43-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index , which declined 2 percent. Erste trades
at less than half its book value, according to  data compiled by
Bloomberg , undercutting the average of 0.65 for western European
banks by a third.  Erste wrote 210 million euros off the value of Romania’s
BCR in the second quarter, following a 700 million-euro
writedown in October, and a fifth straight quarter of losses in
the country. The unit’s bad debt charges will peak this year and
cost cuts of 10 percent, or 40 million euros per year, will help
it return to profit in 2013, Erste said. Treichl, who leads
eastern Europe’s third-biggest bank after  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , paid six times book value when
he bought BCR for 3.75 billion euros.  “Romania really is the key point,” Treichl said. “They
are in a transformation. We’re extremely confident that it’s
gonna work and we’re therefore also quite confident that the
bank will return to profitability in 2013.”  ‘Weak Numbers’  Erste’s net income in the three months ended June 30 fell
to 107.1 million euros, from 199.4 million euros a year earlier.
That compares to an average estimate of 103 million euros in a
Bloomberg survey of 10 analysts. The BCR writedown was partly
offset by a 162.6 million profit from a hybrid bond buyback.
Both items were reflected in brokerage estimates, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Today’s results are a “weak set of numbers even
considering the already low consensus expectations,” Citigroup
analysts Stefan Nedialkov and Simon Nellis wrote in a note to
customers. “Given the downgrade of the outlook for 2012, we
believe consensus earnings for 2012 may decline by 2 percent to
4 percent.”  Net interest income, fee and commission income and trading
income all fell from a year earlier, adding to the pressure on
profit. The 6 percent decline in net interest income was partly
because Erste cut its risk-weighted assets by 4.4 percent to
help meet  capital requirements  by the European Banking Authority
over the last nine months, it said.  Bad Debt  Bad debt charges declined 13 percent and were lower than
what the analysts in the survey had expected thanks to an
improvement in asset quality in  Austria  and in the Czech and
Slovak republics, where Erste owns the biggest banks. The lender
reiterated its forecast of a decline in loan-loss provisions to
2 billion euros this year, even as they will rise in Romania.  The expansion of bad debt accelerated again in the quarter,
reaching 9.2 percent of all customer loans, compared with 8.8
percent three months earlier, driven by Romania, where the ratio
of bad debt reached 26 percent, and by non-performing real
estate loans.  Erste has overshot the EBA’s capital requirements,
reporting core reserves of 9.9 percent at the authority’s June
30 deadline to reach 9 percent. Capital excluding  government aid 
and other non-voting forms increased to 8.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  