-- EU's Corn Outlook Reduced by Offre & Demande on Heat Wave
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-31T12:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/eu-s-corn-outlook-reduced-by-offre-demande-on-heat-wave.html
The European Union corn harvest will
be smaller than previously expected after a heat wave cut yield
potential in Italy and southeastern  Europe , according to Offre &
 Demande Agricole , France’s largest farm adviser.  The outlook for EU corn production was cut to 60.4 million
metric tons, from an earlier forecast for the crop to be little
changed from last year at 65 million tons, said Lucile Brazzini,
corn analyst at Offre & Demande in Bourges, France.  Temperatures in a stretch of southern Europe from eastern
Italy across to  Romania  reached 35 degrees Celsius (95 degrees
Fahrenheit) or more this month, about 5 degrees Celsius above
normal, data from the U.S. Department of Agriculture show. Heat
stress can reduce corn yields.  “The yield potential has deteriorated in the past weeks
with the very strong heat,” Brazzini said by phone. “We’ve cut
in  Italy , Romania,  Hungary  and also some of the smaller
countries in central Europe.”  The outlook compares with last week’s forecast by the
International Grains Council for a corn crop of 65.7 million
tons, and a June 29 estimate by the EU for production of 66.8
million tons and consumption of 71.1 million tons.  “Our corn balance is super tight,” Brazzini said.
“Seeing that the world balance is even tighter, finding the
corn elsewhere is not going to be obvious.”  The outlook for France’s corn harvest is improving due to
warm weather after months of rain delayed corn development, the
analyst said. Offre & Demande is forecasting a French corn yield
of 8.9 tons per hectare (2.47 acres) from 10 tons in 2011.  “Last year was an exceptional year,” Brazzini said. “We
still have quite a bit of delay. The heat allows for a bit of
catch-up and also increased the potential yield, if it continues
like this we could raise it.”  Temperatures are expected to climb to 35 degrees Celsius in
 France ’s southwest tomorrow and 34 degrees in the Alsace corn-
growing region, according to forecaster Meteo-France.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  