-- Dollar Falls Versus Most Major Peers Before Fed Statement
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-08-01T16:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/euro-holds-gains-versus-dollar-yen-on-ecb-stimulus-bets.html
The dollar fell against most major
counterparts amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  may signal
further monetary stimulus or extend its pledge to keep interest
rates at virtually zero.  The euro erased an earlier gain versus the dollar after
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said the  European Central
Bank , which meets tomorrow, shouldn’t exceed its inflation-
fighting mandate. ECB President  Mario Draghi  pledged last week
to do whatever it takes to preserve the 17-nation currency. The
pound slid following a report that showed U.K. manufacturing
shrank. New Zealand’s dollar and Brazil’s real climbed.  “Currencies have had good moves in the direction of
improved risk sentiment in the last week or so, and that’s been
exclusively driven by greater hopes that the Fed could act today
and Draghi’s comments that the ECB will backstop the euro,”
 Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at Westpac
Banking Corp. in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “A
lot of people expect a statement adjusting target horizon
guidance from the end of 2014 to mid-2015.”  The dollar was little changed at $1.2295 per euro at 12:52
p.m. New York time after weakening earlier as much as 0.3
percent and strengthening as much as 0.2 percent. The 17-nation
currency traded little changed at 96.14 yen. The dollar rose 0.1
percent to 78.20 yen.  The U.S. currency weakened 1.5 percent over the past week
against nine developed-nation peers tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen also fell 1.5 percent,
while Sweden’s krona rallied 1.8 percent.  Fed Statement  The Fed will issue a statement at about 2:15 p.m. after a
two-day meeting. While policy makers refrained from introducing
a third round of asset purchases under a strategy known as
quantitative easing at their June meeting, Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  indicated it’s an option.  The U.S. central bank bought $2.3 trillion of securities in
two rounds of asset purchases from 2008 to 2011 in a bid to spur
growth, and it has said its benchmark  interest rate  will stay at
“exceptionally low levels” at least through late 2014.  “The dollar is under pressure against high-yielders,”
said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at
Societe Generale SA in New York. “The market is betting on some
form of very gentle easing from the Fed, probably through
guidance from the Fed.”  Draghi Plan  The euro rose 1.4 percent last week as Draghi pledged to
protect it. He has a proposal that involves the European
Financial Stability Facility buying government debt on the
primary market, buttressed by ECB purchases on the secondary
market to ensure lenders transmit its record-low  interest rates ,
two central bank officials said on July 27 on condition of
anonymity.  European governments “overestimate the central bank’s
possibilities and expect too much of it by assuming that it can
be used not only for  price stability , but also for promoting
growth, reducing unemployment and stabilizing the banking
system,” Weidmann said in an interview with former central bank
chief Helmut Schlesinger. It was conducted on June 29 and
published on the Bundesbank’s website today.  Purchasing managers ’ indexes fell worldwide in July, with
factory gauges for France, Germany and Austria reaching their
lowest levels in more than three years.  The weaker data gives Draghi “all the evidence he needs”
to make a political push for non-standard fiscal measures, Dan Dorrow, head of research in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at Faros
Trading LLC, wrote today in a note to clients.  Pound Drops  The pound slid against all of its most-traded counterparts
after a gauge of factory output, based on a survey by  Markit
Economics  and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply ,
fell to 45.4 from a revised 48.4 in June. It was the lowest in
38 months.  Sterling lost 0.5 percent to $1.5597 and weakened 0.5
percent versus the euro to 78.83 pence.  China’s  yuan  halted a four-day gain as manufacturing data
trailed economists’ estimates, adding to concern the nation’s
growth is slowing.  The currency fell 0.09 percent to close at 6.3685 per
dollar in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System.  Sweden’s krona surged to the strongest in three months
against the dollar after Stockholm-based  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  said an
index of manufacturing based on responses from about 200
purchasing managers rose.  The krona advanced as much as 0.9 percent to 6.7411 per
dollar, the strongest level since May 3, before trading at
6.7635, up 0.5 percent.  Higher-yielding currencies gained on speculation the Fed
will signal additional stimulus measures.  Brazil’s real rose 0.8 percent to 2.0398 to the greenback.
New Zealand’s dollar touched 81.44 U.S. cents, the highest level
since May 2, before trading at 81.23 cents, up 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  