-- European Stocks Drop as Earnings Trail Forecasts
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-07-31T15:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/europe-stock-futures-rise-as-investors-await-fed-policy.html
European stocks  fell, even as the
Stoxx  Europe  600 Index completed its second straight monthly
rally, after companies including BP Plc and  UBS AG (UBSN)  posted
earnings that missed forecasts and investors awaited the outcome
of a two-day Federal Reserve meeting.  BP  led losses , dropping 4.4 percent, the most in more than
ten months. UBS tumbled 5.9 percent. Anheuser-Busch InBev NV
retreated 3.2 percent after reporting a decrease in beer sales.
 Bayer AG (BAYN)  advanced after raising its sales and earnings forecasts
for the year.  The Stoxx 600 declined 1 percent to 261.38 at the close  in
 London . The  gauge  rallied 4.1 percent in July as policy makers
resolved to preserve the euro and support economic growth. The
measure has rebounded 12 percent from this year’s low on June 4.  “No one expected earnings to be very good,” said Pierre Mouton, a  fund manager  who helps oversee $6.5 billion at Notz
Stucki & Cie. in Geneva. “After a couple of spectacular trading
sessions, it is an opportunity to lock in gains.”  Federal Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may forgo announcing a
third round of large-scale asset purchases, and may wait until
September to unveil plans to buy $600 billion in housing and
government debt, according to median estimates of economists in
a Bloomberg News survey.  Stimulus Timing  Eighty-eight percent of economists say the  Federal Open
Market Committee  will refrain from starting new purchases at a
two-day meeting beginning today in  Washington . Forty-eight
percent say the FOMC will announce the buying at its Sept. 12-13
meeting, according to the July 25-27 survey of 58 economists.  “There is a lot of hope that both the Fed and the  European
Central Bank  will take actions to support their economies,”
said Notz Stucki’s Mouton. “There is a risk that the market
will be disappointed if the Fed’s announcement doesn’t meet
investors’ expectations.”  National benchmark indexes retreated in 16 of the 18
western-European markets today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index slid
0.8 percent, while  Germany ’s DAX Index added 0.2 percent.
France’s CAC 40 Index fell 0.6 percent.  The German Finance Ministry said it sees no need to award a
banking license to the euro-area’s permanent rescue fund, the
European Stability Mechanism.  “Germany thinks a license for the ESM isn’t the solution
and that it’s a detail considering the amplitude of the
crisis,” said  Arnaud Scarpaci , a fund manager at Agilis Gestion
SA in Paris, which oversees about $84 million. “But the real
risk of disappointment for the market today comes from the
Fed.”  U.S. Economy  Consumer spending  in the U.S. was unchanged in June after a
0.1 percent decrease the prior month that was previously
reported as little changed, a Commerce Department report showed.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists
called for a 0.1 percent rise. Incomes rose 0.5 percent, lifting
the savings rate to 4.4 percent, the highest in a year.  U.S. house prices declined less than forecast in the year
ended May. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20
cities decreased 0.7 percent from May 2011, the smallest 12-
month fall since September 2010. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey projected a 1.4 percent fall.  Confidence among American consumers unexpectedly rose for
the first time in five months, another report showed. The
Confidence Board’s index increased to 65.9 this month from 62.7
in June. Economists in a Bloomberg survey projected a reading of
61.5.  BP, UBS  BP (BP/)  lost 4.4 percent to 425.05 pence, the most since Sept.
22. Europe’s second-biggest oil company reported a loss in the
second quarter as the company wrote down the value of U.S.
assets and production dropped.  BP reported a net loss of $1.4 billion compared with a
profit of $5.7 billion a year earlier, the London-based company
said today in a statement. Excluding one-time items and changes
in inventories, profit missed analyst estimates.  UBS retreated 5.9 percent to 10.29 Swiss francs, the
biggest decline since October.  Switzerland’s biggest bank 
reported second-quarter profit that fell 58 percent, missing
analysts’ projections, as its investment bank lost money on the
Facebook Inc. share sale.  Net income declined to 425 million francs ($434 million)
from 1.02 billion francs a year earlier. That fell short of the
1.09 billion-franc mean estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Beer Sales  AB InBev (ABI)  slid 3.2 percent to 64.17 euros. The world’s
biggest brewer reported an unexpected drop in second-quarter
beer-sales volume as demand fell in the U.S. and Europe.  Carlsberg A/S (CARLA) , the world’s fourth-largest brewer, lost 5.4
percent to 490.30 kroner.  SGL Carbon SE (SGL) , a producer of carbon and graphite materials,
slipped 4.6 percent to 32.99 euros. The company cut its forecast
for this year’s earnings before interest and taxes to about 160
million euros from 165.5 million euros, citing lack of demand
improvement in the carbon fibers and composites business.  Hugo Boss AG (BOSS)  tumbled 5.5 percent to 82.03 euros. The German
luxury-clothing maker controlled by Permira Advisers reported
quarterly gross-profit margins that missed projections.  Bayer rose 1.2 percent to 61.91 euros. The company said
sales will increase about 4 percent to 5 percent this year to 39
billion euros to 40 billion euros, excluding currency and
portfolio changes. The company previously forecast a sales
increase of about 3 percent.  Core earnings per share will rise about 10 percent and
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
before special items will increase by a high single-digit
percentage, Bayer said. The company previously predicted a
slight improvement in both.  Infineon Savings  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  jumped 6.7 percent to 5.93 euros.
Europe’s second-largest semiconductor maker said it will cut
spending “sharply” to cope with slowing chip demand that’s
pulling down its sales and profitability. The company said it
will reduce investment in the fiscal year starting Oct. 1 and
has frozen recruitment.  Teleperformance SA, the French operator of  call centers ,
gained 8.5 percent to 20.05 euros. The company reported a 36
percent jump in first-half profit and reiterated its targets for
revenue and earnings growth.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  surged 12 percent to 28.96 kroner,
for the best performance on the Stoxx 600. The turbine maker
said it reached an agreement with banks allowing it to draw on
credit lines and second quarter shipments more than doubled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  