-- Teva Sues Sanofi’s Genzyme Unit Over Worker-Raid Claims
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-07-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/teva-sues-sanofi-s-genzyme-unit-over-worker-raid-claims.html
Genzyme Corp. was sued by  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  over claims the biotechnology
company and a former Teva employee violated a non-solicitation
agreement by encouraging workers to move to Genzyme.  Teva Pharmaceuticals USA  Inc., the company’s U.S. unit,
contends Genzyme, a unit of Sanofi, allowed ex-Teva sales
manager Kevin Middleton to lure 11 former colleagues after he
left the generic drugmaker in April, according to a lawsuit
filed in federal court in  Philadelphia . Teva also accused
Middleton of giving his new employer confidential data about its
best-selling multiple sclerosis drug, Copaxone.  Middleton breached the terms of his separation agreement
and Genzyme has “benefited and continues to benefit from
Middleton’s disclosure and use of Teva’s confidential
information,” the drugmaker claimed.  Sanofi (SAN) ,  France ’s largest drugmaker, purchased Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Genzyme, the biggest maker of medicines for
rare genetic disorders, last year for $20.1 billion. In April,
Sanofi said first-quarter profit rose 13 percent, helped by the
Genzyme purchase.  Jack Cox, a U.S.-based spokesman for Paris-based Sanofi,
said yesterday he couldn’t immediately comment on Teva’s
lawsuit.  $134,000 Payment  Middleton, of Henderson,  Tennessee , oversaw sales of
Copaxone, a drug used to reduce the frequency of relapses in
multiple sclerosis patients, for most of his more than eight
years at Teva, according to the complaint. The drug generated
 sales  of $3.9 billion in 2011 and accounted for 21 percent of
the Petach Tikva, Israel-based company’s revenue.  When Middleton left Teva in April, he signed an agreement
that barred him from disclosing proprietary information about
Copaxone’s sales efforts or attempting to solicit his former
colleagues, according to the complaint. Teva said in the filing
it agreed to pay Middleton more than $134,000 for signing the
pact and provided continuing health benefits.  Genzyme officials, who are seeking approval for competing
MS drugs, wanted to assemble a sales team to market the
medicines, Teva claimed. Consequently, they “raided Teva’s
highly trained and highly successful sales force” that sells
and promotes Copaxone, the company said in its lawsuit.  Customer Lists  Middleton allegedly used Teva’s confidential information,
including customer lists and performance reviews of sales staff,
to help recruit almost a dozen of his former colleagues in less
than two months.  Most had worked on Copaxone’s marketing campaign, Teva
claimed.  Teva is asking a judge to bar Genzyme from using any of its
confidential information gleaned from Middleton and to order its
competitor to stop soliciting Teva employees for a year. Teva
also is seeking unspecified damages.  “Teva has suffered and will continue to suffer irreparable
harm and loss” from Middleton’s and Genzyme’s actions, the
company’s lawyers said in the suit.  The case is Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. v. Middleton, 12-
cv-04298, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Pennsylvania 
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  