-- Evita Mania Reaches Argentine Soccer After 100-Peso Bill Image
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-07-31T13:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/evita-mania-reaches-argentine-soccer-after-100-peso-bill-image.html
Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  wants this year’s national soccer
championship to be named after former first lady Evita Peron,
who died from cancer 60 years ago.  Five days after announcing the issue of a new 100 peso
($22) note bearing the image of Eva Duarte de Peron, the wife of
former President Juan Domingo Peron, Fernandez last night urged
the Argentine Football Association to commemorate her in this
year’s tournament.  “On this 60th anniversary of Eva Peron’s passing into
immortality, I’d like to ask that the championship be called the
‘Eva Peron Championship’ after her, and the cup be named
‘Captain Eva,”’ Peronist party member Fernandez, 59, said in a
speech at the presidential palace. “Why not? Evita, captain of
 Argentina .”  The new bill announced on July 25, was copied from a  1952
design  of a 5-peso note that was hidden for years at the
country’s mint. The bill was never printed, and a military junta
that toppledPeron in a 1955 coup banned all public mention of
the couple.  The government’s commemoration of Evita on the new banknote
comes as Argentines have been dumping their currency in favor of
the  U.S. dollar  to ward against stalling growth in  South
America ’s second-biggest economy and inflation that private
economists estimate at 24 percent.  Evita remains an icon of the ruling Peronist party,
emblazoning banners at pro-government rallies where Fernandez
frequently invokes her legacy as a champion of the poor.  Fernandez last year  inaugurated  a 15-ton, 100-foot iron
portrait of Evita, who died when she was 33, that hangs from the
side of the Social Development ministry on  Buenos Aires ’s widest
thoroughfare.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 