-- Ex-UBS Officials Rigged Muni-Bond Bids, Star Witness Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-07-31T18:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/ex-ubs-officers-lied-and-cheated-on-muni-bond-deals-u-s-says.html
Mark Zaino, the prosecution’s star
witness in the trial of three former  UBS AG (UBSN)  municipal-bond
executives, began his testimony by telling jurors how he and the
defendants fixed bids on bond-investment contracts.  Zaino, called “a snake” by defense lawyers yesterday in
their opening statements in  Manhattan  federal court, testified
about excluding aggressive bidders, soliciting intentional
losing bids and giving information to favored bidders to rig
outcomes on investing the proceeds of bonds issued by U.S.
cities and towns.  “Depending on who was the favored provider, I would adjust
the bid specifications,” Zaino said, testifying in Manhattan
federal court today in the trial of Peter Ghavami, former co-
head of UBS’s municipal-derivatives group, Gary Heinz and
Michael Welty.  Zaino told jurors he is testifying for the government after
pleading guilty to three criminal counts in 2010. Facing a
possible sentence of 35 years in prison, he said he’s
cooperating with prosecutors in hopes of receiving a more
lenient punishment.  Ghavami, Heinz and Welty are charged in a six-count
indictment with “long-running conspiracies and schemes to
defraud” municipal-bond issuers and U.S. tax authorities by
fixing the prices on the investing agreements. Banks already
have paid more than $700 million to settle U.S. claims.  Banks, Brokers  The trial, which began yesterday before U.S. District Judge
Kimba Wood, grows out of a nationwide probe of bid-rigging
involving banks and brokers including CDR Financial Products
Inc. The defendants deny any wrongdoing.  Prosecutors said in a court filing that they will tell
jurors about bid-rigging involving UBS,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Bank of America Corp.  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  in the fraud
alleged against the three former UBS executives.  Christiaan Brakman, a UBS spokesman,  Russell Wilkerson  , a
spokesman for  GE Capital , and Bank of America spokesman  William
Halldin  declined to comment on the trial.  Joseph Evangelisti , a
JPMorgan Chase spokesman didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Zaino told jurors he is a former CDR employee who was hired
in 2001 by UBS, where he worked alongside the three defendants.  In May, he was a key witness in the conviction of three
former GE bankers.  The three former GE bankers, Dominick Carollo, Steven Goldberg and  Peter Grimm , were found guilty by a federal jury in
Manhattan of conspiracy to commit fraud by manipulating auctions
for municipal-bond investment contracts.  Carollo, Goldberg and Grimm have asked the trial judge to
throw out the verdict.  As many as 200 recordings related to 38 deals will be put
into evidence, prosecutors told Wood in a July 9 filing.  Both sides estimate the trial will last about four weeks.
Zaino’s direct testimony will take about two days, according to
the government. Defense lawyers will then have the chance to
question him.  The case is U.S. v. Ghavami, 10-cr-1217, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 