-- FAA Chief’s Nomination Faces Uncertain Future in Senate
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-07-31T22:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/faa-chief-s-nomination-faces-uncertain-future-in-senate.html
A Republican U.S. senator plans to
try to hold up the confirmation of Michael Huerta to lead the
 Federal Aviation Administration , a spokesman said within hours
of Huerta winning approval at the committee level.  While the nomination passed the Commerce Committee
unanimously today, Senator Jim DeMint objects, Wesley Denton, a
spokesman for the South Carolina Republican, said in an
interview.  “Senator DeMint would want to have a full debate and vote
on this nominee as he has strong concerns about the FAA’s labor
policies,” Denton said. Requesting those steps could stall the
nomination under Senate rules.  Denton didn’t identify the labor issue that concerns
DeMint. The FAA in 2009 gave air-traffic controllers higher
wages in a contract that restored pay grades that had been taken
away by President  George W. Bush ’s administration.  The FAA administrator, unlike many other positions
appointed by the president, has a five-year term. DeMint opposes
confirming Huerta for that period, Denton said. If approved,
Huerta would serve through the next president’s term, regardless
of who wins election in November.  Committee Chairman  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia
Democrat, said he hoped that Republicans wouldn’t object to the
nomination because of Huerta’s ties to their party’s presumptive
presidential nominee,  Mitt Romney .  Romney Link  While nominated by Democratic President  Barack Obama ,
Huerta previously was managing director of the Salt Lake Olympic
Organizing Committee under Romney. Denton declined to comment on
whether that background would make a difference.  Rockefeller, in an interview after today’s hearing, said he
assumes Republicans will oppose Huerta in spite of that link.  Huerta, 55, has been the agency’s acting administrator
since December, when  Randy Babbitt  resigned after being arrested
on a drunk-driving charge for which he was later acquitted.  Democratic senators four years ago blocked the nomination
of acting FAA administrator Bobby Sturgell. Sturgell had been
nominated by Bush, a Republican, near the end of his term.  A group representing families of air-crash victims endorsed
Huerta today in an e-mailed release. Relatives of victims from
the Feb. 12, 2009, crash near Buffalo of a  Pinnacle Airlines
Corp. (PNCLQ)  Colgan Air flight said they had forged a good relationship
with Huerta.  The group, Families of Continental Flight 3407, has
criticized how long it has taken FAA to impose safety
regulations mandated two years ago by Congress. It said in the
release that Huerta had pledged to speed up new rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  