-- Facebook Drops to Record on Growth Concern: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-07-31T20:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/facebook-drops-to-record-on-growth-concern-san-francisco-mover.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  dropped 6.2 percent to
a record low, the third straight day of declines after the
world’s largest social-networking service reported second-
quarter results that showed slowing growth.  Shares slumped to $21.71 as of the close in  New York , the
lowest closing price since Facebook held an initial public
offering on May 17.  Facebook disappointed investors last week when it reported
sales growth of 32 percent, down from 45 percent in the first
quarter, and refrained from providing a sales or profit outlook
for the year. The company also posted slower user growth and is
grappling with concerns about how well it can boost advertising
on mobile devices.  “There were obviously some people who didn’t want to sell
on the first day in anticipation that you would see some
stabilization and the stock price sort of return a little bit,”
saidMark Harding, an analyst at JMP Securities LLC who has a
market outperform rating on the stock and doesn’t own it.
“Perhaps they’re disappointed by the lack of a recovery, and
maybe now they’re using the opportunity to perhaps pare back.”  Facebook has lost 43 percent since the IPO.  Carlos Kirjner, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
lowered his Facebook price target by $2 to $23 a share today
even as he upgraded the stock to a market perform from an
underperform. Facebook is worth $19 a share, based on its value
as an online-display ad company that’s gaining market share, he
said. Growth opportunities, including new advertising markets,
add another $4 to the stock price, Kirjner said in the note.  Lockup Expires  Facebook shares could fall in the coming months with the
expiry of so-called lockup periods, which bar insiders from
selling shares for a period after the IPO, Kirjner said. More
than 200 million shares will come on the market in August alone,
he said.  “Lock-up expiration may pressure the stock for the next
few months, potentially creating attractive entry points,” he
wrote.  Facebook on July 26 reported revenue of $1.18 billion,
topping an  estimate  of $1.16 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Still, it reported that operating margin dropped
from a year earlier and said payments-related sales were $192
million, below the $199.3 million average analyst prediction in
a Bloomberg survey.  UBS Results  Facebook said in May that sales growth wasn’t keeping pace
with user expansion as more people access the service with
mobile phones. The number of ads delivered in the U.S. decreased
2 percent last quarter even as the number of daily users gained
10 percent, Chief Financial Officer  David Ebersman  said on the
July 26 conference call discussing results.  Another stock under pressure today is UBS AG,  Switzerland ’s
biggest bank, which faulted the  Facebook IPO  for hampering
results in the second quarter.  The equities unit’s revenue was hurt by what UBS called a
“gross mishandling of Facebook’s market debut by Nasdaq.” The
bank, which entered orders for Facebook shares multiple times
because Nasdaq wasn’t confirming them “for several hours,”
said it will take legal action against the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  