-- Olympic Badminton Players Face Disciplinary Action on Poor Play
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-08-01T10:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/fans-jeer-olympic-badminton-players-for-deliberate-poor-play.html
Chinese, South Korean and Indonesian
Olympic badminton players face disciplinary action over poor
play last night that drew a caution from the umpire and jeers
from spectators.  The Badminton World Federation today said it opened
disciplinary cases against four women’s doubles teams for “not
using one’s best efforts to win a match” and “conducting
oneself in a manner that is clearly abusive or detrimental to
the sport.”  World champions and top seeds Yu Yang, 26 and Wang 
Xiaoli, 23, from China and South Korea’s Jung Kyung-Eun, 22, and 
Kim Ha-Na, 22, had already made the quarterfinals. Korea won the 
 Group A  tie 2-0 to set up a meeting with China’s Tian Quing and 
Zhao Yunlei. By losing, the Chinese pair can’t meet their 
compatriots until the final.  The match referee warned the players at 14-10 in the first
game after several serves from both teams hit the net.
Tournament referee Torsten Berg of Denmark was called and told
the teams that they faced punishment if they didn’t compete
properly. South Korea head coach Sung Han Kook placed the blame
with the Chinese pair.  “It’s not like the Olympics spirit to play like this,”
Sung said at London’s Wembley Arena. “How could the No. 1 pair
in the world play like this? They start playing mistakes.”  A second Korean pair, the third-seeded Ha Jung Eun, 25 and
 Kim Min Jung, 26, and Indonesia’s Meiliana Jauhari and Greysia 
Polii, 24, are also involved in the case.  The BWF’s disciplinary committee is holding a formal
hearing this morning, the ruling body said in a statement.  Yu, Wang, Jung and Kim were booed by the crowd as they
exited after the South Korean pair won 21-14, 21-11.  Yu told journalists that she and her partner were already
through and were conserving energy for the elimination stage.  “If we’re not playing the best, it’s because it doesn’t
matter,” she said. “The most important thing is the
elimination match.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at the London Olympic Park at   celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  