-- Fed Seen Forgoing New Bond Buying Program Until September
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-07-31T18:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/fed-seen-forgoing-next-round-of-asset-purchases-until-september.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will probably forgo announcing a third round of large-
scale asset purchases this week, and is more likely to wait
until September to unveil plans to buy $600 billion in housing
and government debt, according to median estimates of economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  Eighty-eight percent of economists say the  Federal Open
Market Committee  will refrain from starting new purchases at a
two-day meeting that began today in  Washington . Forty-eight
percent say the FOMC will announce the buying at its Sept. 12-13
meeting, according to the July 25-27 survey of 58 economists.  The FOMC may take further action should the job market not
make “sustained progress” in bringing down an  unemployment
rate  stuck above 8 percent for 41 consecutive months, Bernanke
said this month in congressional testimony. The FOMC wants to
see more jobs data before beginning asset purchases aimed at
holding down borrowing costs, spurring growth and reducing
unemployment, said Michael Gapen, senior U.S. economist for
Barclays Plc in  New York .  Policy makers “don’t need to do something immediately
because the economy is basically treading water,” with a second
quarter growth rate of 1.5 percent, Gapen said. “What gives the
Fed the ability to sit tight for now is financial market
conditions haven’t weakened that much.”  Rather than increase asset purchases this week, the Fed is
more likely to extend its pledge to hold its main interest rate
near zero beyond its current horizon of late 2014. Twenty-six
percent of economists expect the  central bank  to announce a
later date, while 74 percent of economists expect the Fed not to
change its forward guidance, according to the survey.  Trigger Finger  “There’s nothing that really suggests the Fed has an itchy
trigger finger or that they’re champing at the bit to ease
policy again,” said Paul Edelstein, director of financial
economics for IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts .  By waiting to step up stimulus until September, when
Bernanke is scheduled to hold a press conference and policy
makers will update forecasts for growth and unemployment, the
FOMC can “give some guidance to markets and link it directly to
their outlook for the economy,” he said.  The Labor Department plans on Aug. 3 to release its
payrolls report for July. The report is likely to show that
employers added 100,000 jobs this month, according to the median
forecast in a separate survey of economists, compared with the
80,000 increase in June.  New Purchases  Asked to estimate the size and composition of new asset
purchases, 34 of 48 economists said a new round of quantitative
easing will consist of mortgage-backed securities and  Treasury
securities . Thirteen of the 48 economists said the purchases
would consist entirely of mortgage-backed securities.  The median estimate was for purchases totaling $600
billion, the same size as the second round of asset purchases
announced in November 2010. Economists predict the purchases
will be split evenly between Treasuries and mortgage debt.  “In general their preference is to use Treasuries rather
than mortgages, but at this point they’re owning more and more
of the Treasury market, so there’s reason to spread it out,”
said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief U.S. economist for High Frequency
Economics in Valhalla, New York.  Global stocks rallied last week as European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said July 26 he is prepared to do
“whatever it takes to preserve the euro.”  Index Rises  Since Draghi’s remarks, the MSCI World Index rose 4.2
percent and the  S&P 500  has increased 3.2 percent. The S&P 500
fell 0.3 percent to 1,381.02 today as of 1:58 p.m. The index is
up 9.8 percent this year.  Fed officials have identified  Europe  as one of “two main
sources of risk,” Bernanke said in his testimony to Congress
this month. The other risk is the so-called fiscal cliff, about
$600 billion of spending cuts and tax increases that are
scheduled to go into effect at the end of the year unless
Congress acts.  Bernanke cited a Congressional Budget Office estimate that
the full range of spending cuts and tax increases would knock
the U.S. into a “shallow recession” in 2013.  “We are seeing demand being relatively stable,” Jim Compton, chief revenue officer of United Continental Holdings
Inc., said in a July 26 earnings call. His company is the
world’s largest carrier.  ‘Watching Softness’  “When we talk about the economy being tepid, we are very
much aware of, particularly Europe, and are keeping our eyes on
that,” he said. “We’re obviously watching softness in the
economy to see where that turns.”  While lawmakers may not resolve U.S. fiscal challenges
until after the Nov. 6 election, economists don’t believe the
Fed will alter its stimulus based on the political calendar,
according to the survey.  Sixty-five percent of the economists surveyed believe the
Fed won’t be influenced by politics as it weighs whether to
start a new round of bond purchases. Eighteen percent say  the
Fed  will be more likely to act before the election, while the
same proportion say the Fed would be more likely to wait until
after Nov. 6.  Bernanke testified on July 17 that the prospect for more
stimulus hinges on  job creation  and the outlook for inflation.  “It’s very important that we see sustained progress in the
labor market and avoid deflation risk,” he said. “Those are
the things we’ll be looking at as the committee meets later this
month and later this summer.”  All Items  Inflation, excluding food and energy, was 1.8 percent in
the year through June, according to the Commerce Department’s
personal consumption expenditures index released today.
Including all items, prices rose 1.5 percent during the period.  While inflation is below the Fed’s 2 percent target, market
expectations for price gains have increased since the Fed began
a second round of asset purchases and started so-called
Operation Twist, a program to extend the average duration of
securities in the Fed’s portfolio.  Traders in inflation protected securities predict inflation
of 2.1 percent over the next 10 years. That compares with 1.5
percent in August 2010, when Bernanke signaled the Fed may
initiate a second round of quantitative easing, and 1.7 percent
in September of 2011, when the Fed started Operation Twist.  The Fed chairman said the central bank’s tools for easing
policy include further purchases of Treasuries and mortgage-
backed securities, altering the Fed’s language on the outlook
for  interest rates  and reducing the rate the Fed pays banks on
excess reserves.  Economists believe the Fed is unlikely to lower the
interest rate on excess reserves. Four percent expect such a
move this week, while 14 percent see the Fed doing so in
September. Seventy-four percent of economists say the Fed won’t
use the policy tool.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  