-- Fiat Losses in Europe Widen as Debt Crisis Hits Demand
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-07-31T15:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/fiat-losses-in-europe-shrink-as-ceo-cuts-investments.html
Fiat SpA (F) , the Italian carmaker that
controls Chrysler Group LLC, posted a wider second-quarter loss
in Europe compared with the previous three months as the
region’s debt crisis sinks auto demand.  The loss in the region before interest, taxes and one-time
items including investments was 184 million euros ($226
million), the Turin-based company said in a statement today.
That compared with a first-quarter loss of 170 million euros.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  is reducing
spending in Europe by 500 million euros in 2012 as sales fall in
the region for a fifth straight year. Fiat’s European sales
dropped 17 percent in the first half to 456,191 vehicles,
according to data from industry group ACEA.  “Until the euro zone stabilizes and  consumer confidence 
improves, the European sales crisis won’t end,” said Gian Primo
Quagliano, president of Promotor, an automotive research group
based in Bologna. “Consumers in the region are holding back
from buying cars.”  Fiat  dropped  19 cents, or 4.4 percent, to 4 euros in Milan
trading today. The stock has gained 13 percent this year,
valuing the carmaker at 5 billion euros.  Without Chrysler, Fiat would have posted a second-quarter
net loss of 152 million euros compared with net income of 76
million euros a year earlier. Those figures exclude one-time
items and include minorities.  Closing Factories  The manufacturer shut a factory in Sicily at the end of
2011 and may close a second plant in  Italy  as Marchionne expects
the auto market to remain at the current level for two to three
years. A decision hinges on whether Fiat and its unions can come
up with a viable plan to use excess capacity to build cars for
 North America , Marchionne said July 3.  The Italian carmaker’s net industrial debt fell to 5.4
billion euros at the end of June from 5.8 billion euros at the
end of March as total available liquidity rose to 22.7 billion
euros, including 3 billion euros in undrawn credit lines, the
automaker said today.  Carmakers’ earnings are being hit by the slump of sales in
the region.  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  posted a first-half loss of 662
million euros at its automaking division and announced plans to
eliminate 8,000 jobs. Fiat said today second-quarter earnings in
the region were hit by a 91 million-euro writedown of a joint
venture the carmaker has with Peugeot in  France .  Europe Drops  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest carmaker, last week
reported slowing earnings growth in the quarter.  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
is predicting its 2012 losses in Europe will exceed $1 billion.  “Peugeot and Ford results show that depleting cash into
new models doesn’t pay out in profits and clearly burden the
balance sheet with debt,” Massimo Vecchio, an analyst at
Mediobanca in Milan, wrote in a report to clients July 26.  Fiat’s second-quarter operating profit in  Latin America 
declined 25 percent to 238 million euros, as deliveries in the
region slipped 7.4 percent to 226,000 vehicles.  Marchionne, who plans to combine Fiat and  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based Chrysler to boost revenue to more than 100
billion euros by 2014, is relying on the U.S. carmaker’s profit
as Fiat struggles to end the losses in  Europe .  Including Chrysler, Fiat’s group trading profit almost
doubled to 1.01 billion euros from 525 million euros, beating
the 957.8 million-euro average of four analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. The American carmaker was consolidated
into Fiat results in June 2011. Fiat maintained a forecast that
trading profit this year will be in a range from 3.8 billion
euros to 4.5 billion euros.  Chrysler Profit  Chrysler reported a second-quarter profit yesterday of $436
million compared with a year-earlier loss of $370 million. The
second-quarter 2011 figures included a one-time $551 million
cost for repaying government loans. Sales increased 23 percent
to $16.8 billion.  Fiat said earlier this month that it will boost its stake
in Chrysler to 61.8 percent. The cumulative cost of that stake
would be about $2.3 billion. The additional 3.3 percent holding
would be purchased from the United Auto Workers’ VEBA retiree
health-care trust in a transaction that Marchionne estimated
would cost less than 200 million euros  Overcapacity in western Europe may more than double to
about 2 million vehicles in 2012, according to IHS Automotive.
Marchionne, who currently holds the rotating ACEA presidency,
has been urging manufacturers to take action to scale back
vehicle production.  VW Spat  The planned Grand Punto hatchback, originally scheduled to
be built in 2013, is being reconsidered and may be part of a
partnership that Fiat may set up, Marchionne said in an
interview last month. The CEO said that the Punto’s introduction
would be a “failure” because European carmakers are cutting
prices amid the auto market’s contraction.  The CEO suggested that Volkswagen’s pricing strategy is
creating a “bloodbath,” according to a report published July
26 in the  New York  Times, which cited him among industry
executives as accusing the German carmaker of exploiting
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis to expand its market share.
Volkswagen has threatened to leave the ACEA in response to
Marchionne’s comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  