-- Forint Retreats From Strongest in 10 Months on Worse German Data
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-07-31T15:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/forint-retreats-from-strongest-in-10-months-on-worse-german-data.html
The forint slid from its strongest
in more than 10 months against the euro after data in  Germany ,
the biggest buyer of Hungarian exports, showed retail sales
unexpectedly shrank in June and unemployment rose in July.  The Hungarian currency weakened 0.9 percent to 280.58 per
euro by 5:18 p.m. in Budapest, after surging 4.3 percent in the
previous four days to the strongest since September.  German unemployment climbed for a fourth month as the euro-
area’s debt crisis prompted employers to delay hiring. Retail
sales in the country declined for a third month, sliding 0.1
percent in June, in the longest stretch of declines since the
end of 2007. The European Union’s most-indebted eastern member
is “quite strongly linked” with Germany’s financial
indicators,  Mihaly Varga , the minister in charge of  Hungary ’s
negotiations for international aid, said in June.  Global optimism may wane as the  European Central Bank ’s
rate-setting meeting approaches and the forint may edge closer
to the 280 level per euro, analysts at Budapest-based brokerage
Equilor Zrt. said in an e-mailed note today. The ECB will meet
in  Frankfurt  on Aug. 2.  Hungary cut the offer at a Treasury-bill auction today
after demand slid. The state sold 35 billion forint ($153
million) of the bills, 10 billion forint less than planned, at
an average yield of 6.87 percent as investors’ bids dropped to
51.2 billion forint from 80.5 billion forint on July 24,
according to auction results published by the state debt
management agency on Bloomberg.  The government in Budapest last week ended the first round
of talks with the  International Monetary Fund  and the European
Union and the international lenders are scheduled to return in
September for further talks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  