-- Freeport Signs LNG-Export Agreement With Osaka Gas, Chubu
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2012-07-31T11:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/freeport-signs-lng-export-agreements-with-osaka-gas-chubu.html
Freeport LNG Development LP, trying
to capitalize on the U.S. advantage in producing natural gas,
agreed to process LNG at its proposed plant in southeast  Texas 
for two of Japan’s largest utilities.  Osaka Gas Co. (9532)  and  Chubu Electric Power Co. (9502)  announced 20-
year contracts to have Freeport liquefy about 4.4 million metric
tons of natural gas in 2017 from the project’s first phase.
Two additional phases of the project, which requires U.S.
approval, would bring its total capacity to 13.2 million tons a
year, and Houston-based Freeport expects to reach additional
agreements this year, according to company statements.  Japan is increasing LNG imports after the Fukushima nuclear
disaster forced the shutdown of atomic  power plants  and
increased its reliance on gas-fired generators. Asian companies
including  Korea Gas Corp. (036460)  and  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL)  have tied up
purchases of LNG from  North America  after U.S. gas prices
slumped to a 10-year low following a surge in shale-gas output
using a technology known as fracking.  “Japan was criticized for not securing supplies from the
U.S. in the first round,” Tony Regan, a consultant with Tri-Zen
International Ltd. in Singapore, said by phone today. “For the
Japanese, it’s a bit of a catch up.”  Japan paid about 70,944 yen ($906) for a metric ton of LNG
in June, or about $18.64 per million British thermal units,
according to data from Japan’s Ministry of Finance. That’s up
about 17 percent from a year ago and compares with a U.S.
benchmark of about $3.25 per million Btu in New York.  Liquefaction Fee  Freeport will receive a fee to liquefy gas that the
Japanese utilities buy and ship on their own, according to the
agreement known as tolling. Chubu plans to buy stakes in U.S.
gas fields, Hiroki Sato, general manager for fuels, said at
press conference today.  The deal with Freeport is designed to reduce LNG prices in
Japan, which are generally linked to the cost of oil, Kei
Takeuchi, associate director for LNG trading at Osaka Gas, said
at the press conference.  “We believe this contract can change the pricing practice
and diversify the benchmark prices for LNG supplies from other
sources,” he said.  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and  Mitsui & Co. (8031) , Japan’s two biggest
trading companies, agreed in April to help San Diego-based
 Sempra Energy (SRE)  develop a $6 billion natural-gas export facility
in Louisiana. The deal grants each of the Tokyo-based companies
a third of the 1.7 billion cubic feet a day that the project is
expected to generate.  Final Decision  Sumitomo Corp. (8053) , Japan’s third-largest trading house, and
 Tokyo Gas Co. (9531)  agreed to buy 2.3 million metric tons of LNG
annually for 20 years from  Dominion Resources Inc. (D) ’s planned
Cove Point terminal, which is expected to start operating from
Maryland in 2017.  Freeport expects to make a final decision on its Texas
project in the second half of 2012, according to its statement.  “Having liquefaction-tolling agreements with Osaka Gas and
Chubu Electric provides the strong end-user credit support
necessary to fully finance the initial train of the liquefaction
project,” Michael S. Smith, Freeport’s chief executive officer,
said in the statement.  Freeport said it needs approvals from the  Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission  and the  Department of Energy  before it
begins construction.  The U.S. Energy Department granted  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG)  a
permit last year to export from its terminal in Sabine Pass,
Louisiana, to countries that aren’t free-trade partners, a group
that includes Japan. Korea Gas, GAIL, BG Group Plc and Gas
Natural SDG SA have agreed to buy a combined 16 million tons a
year from the terminal, according to Cheniere.  The Energy Department has since suspended other
applications and commissioned a study of the impact of exports
on domestic energy use, output and prices before deciding on
additional permit requests.  “Freeport may or may not get the export license, and the
moratorium on LNG exports is not going to be reviewed before the
U.S. presidential elections,” Regan said. “It may be
difficult.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Dinakar Sethuraman in  New Delhi  at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  