-- French Buck Giving Powers to EU Like Germany Lost in 1945 Defeat
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-07-31T22:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/french-buck-giving-powers-to-eu-like-germany-lost-in-1945-defeat.html
To policy makers in Berlin, who have
been the target of global pressure to do more to douse  Europe ’s
financial crisis,  France  poses the bigger obstacle.  French President  Francois Hollande  is resisting  Germany ’s
call to give up more sovereignty in steps toward the political
union that German leaders, including  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
and Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, say is key to putting
the 17-nation currency bloc on sound footing.  Germany forfeited control of its destiny after losing World
War II and it took decades before the victors allowed it to
reunify in 1990, forming a 16-state federation. In France, where
power has resided in a monarch or head of state for most of its
history, defeat by Germany in 1871 and 1940 forged a desire to
keep a tight grip on how much sovereignty it cedes. Those
contrasting concepts of power are now making it harder for
Merkel and Hollande to find a solution to Europe’s debt crisis.  “Germany has the model of shareable sovereignty that
results from federalism” meaning control “can be split between
various layers including at European level,” Sabine von Oppeln,
a political scientist at Berlin’s Free University specializing
in Franco-German affairs, said by phone. “In the French concept
of nation and state, sovereignty can’t be shared, and that’s why
French politics has problems giving it up.”  The Franco-German split on fixing Europe makes it more
likely the crisis in the 17-nation euro area will worsen,
according to Connecticut-based Bridgewater Associates LP, the
hedge fund founded by  Ray Dalio  that manages about $120 billion
in assets.  Stoking Doubts  “Germany and France no longer stand in solidarity as
backstops behind the euro system,” the firm said in its second-
quarter report. “There are good reasons to doubt that European
bank and sovereign deleveragings will be prevented from
progressing to the next stage in a disorderly way.”  Merkel, the lead actor in almost three years of crisis
fighting, says that euro states ready for “more Europe” should
shift budgetary oversight to a pan-European level, where
spending decisions can be vetoed to stop debt from building up.  The euro can’t work without shared responsibility for
economic policy, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said May 17
when he was awarded the Charlemagne prize for service in the
cause of European unification in Aachen, Germany.  To give legitimacy to a future “political union,” the
citizens of Europe should elect a European Commission president
directly, Schaeuble said. They should accept the commission, the
European Union’s executive body, as Europe’s government, to be
controlled by a strengthened European Parliament and a chamber
in which EU states are represented, he said.  Rhine Divide  The push for closer political ties has been Merkel’s
response to complaints from counterparts around the world -- and
across the River Rhine in France -- that her emphasis on
austerity has failed to solve the debt crisis while driving
economies into recession.  It’s a debate that echoes to the dawn of Europe’s postwar
effort to build a peaceful union after centuries of war. France
resisted Germany’s push to hand more say to European
institutions legitimized to take cross-border decisions,
preferring to keep power in national capitals.  France has reasserted sovereignty over the decades. It
rejected a proposed European army, because the Gaullists
wouldn’t cede control over the French military. Former President
 Charles de Gaulle , who led Allied troops back into Paris in
1944, pulled out of NATO command 22 years later and built his
own nuclear weapons.  Road Map  In a 10-page “Pact for Growth in Europe” last month,
Hollande failed to make any specific proposals for political
union, calling only for a “road map for the next decade” to
examine the “conditions for integration.”  Hollande’s Socialist party splintered in 2005 when French
voters defeated a proposed European Constitution in a
referendum. While Hollande, then party leader, backed the
referendum, his foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, was an
opposition leader.  “Hollande is walking a very fine line to move ahead on
federalism and the idea of giving up bits of sovereignty,”
 Bruno Cautres , a political analyst at Paris-based Cevipof
research center, said in a July 27 telephone interview. “There
is a breaking point, a red line he cannot cross on Europe and
European integration or face an explosion within his party and
within the population.”  Fiscal Pact  Hollande criticized Merkel’s EU pact on budget discipline
in his presidential campaign and inaugural address. The accord
was negotiated with his predecessor  Nicolas Sarkozy  in December
2011 and approved by EU leaders in March, with a debt ceiling in
national constitutions one of its elements. While Hollande has
since indicated he’ll ratify the pact, he has been less willing
to consider the further steps to integration Merkel advocates.  “Even in states where the governments champion euro bonds,
as in France, I can neither see a public debate nor support in
the population for a transfer of sovereignty,” the Bundesbank’s
Weidmann told French newspaper Le Monde in a May 25 interview.  France on occasions in the past agreed to cede sovereignty
if it benefited more than others. The European Coal and Steel
Community, the precursor to the EU, gave France control over
German resources that were larger than its own, against warnings
from De Gaulle, who served as French president from 1959 to
1969, that France was too weak to dominate the ECSC.  Central Bank  Surrendering its currency in the euro monetary union set up
in 1999 was appealing to France because it broke the dominance
of the Bundesbank. Germany was willing to pay that price for its
reunification, according to officials including former Bavarian
Prime Minister Edmund Stoiber.  Merkel, even while faced with a  European Central Bank  in
 Frankfurt  that’s stretching its mandate to the limits of German
central banking orthodoxy, told her fellow countrymen to prepare
for deeper political integration and a common budgetary policy
among euro members in a June 7 interview on ARD television.  “We need more Europe, we need not only a monetary union,
but we also need a so-called fiscal union, in other words more
joint budget policy,” Merkel said. “And we need most of all a
political union, that means we need to gradually give
competencies to Europe and give Europe control.”  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  on July 26 urged euro region leaders to follow up on
their commitments to create “more Europe,” saying more steps
toward a fiscal and banking union are needed. U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , in a joint statement with
Schaeuble on July 30, expressed confidence in euro states’
“efforts to reform and move towards greater integration.”  Van Rompuy  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  may present a plan for
deeper European integration by December after sketching
“building blocks” at the June 28-29 summit in Brussels that
reflected the Franco-German split.  Steps toward joint debt liability “could be considered as
long as a robust framework for budgetary discipline and
competitiveness is in place,”  Van Rompuy  said in the  report ,
without being clear on the sequencing of sharing power and debt.  The new institutional setup “is something that hasn’t been
talked about at all and that’s where there is very little common
ground so far,” said von Oppeln. “If that’s put on the
international agenda, there is a whole range of controversial
issues that go well beyond the debt brake that’s tied to the
fiscal pact.”  Former Chancellor Helmut Kohl told Internationale Politik
magazine a year ago he had wanted more progress toward political
union in Europe after German reunification, yet had to
compromise “because more wasn’t possible.” While the 1992
Maastricht Treaty led to monetary union, political union
stalled.  “The French should have an interest in a greater
institutionalized sharing of government debt,” Kurt Lauk, the
head of the business group in Merkel’s Christian Democratic
Union party, said June 11. “But for that they would have to
give up sovereignty and that’s exactly what they’re not doing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  