-- French Parliament Passes Transaction Tax in Hollande Budget
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-08-01T08:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/french-lawmakers-pass-budget-bill-including-transaction-tax.html
France’s parliament  passed  President
 Francois Hollande ’s revised 2012 budget, including a 0.2 percent
transaction tax on share purchases that takes effect today.  Both houses of parliament approved the budget law, which
includes 7.2 billion euros ($8.9 billion) of tax increases to
meet deficit-reduction goals. The budget law was voted on last
night by the national assembly and the Senate, both of which are
controlled by Hollande’s Socialist Party.  The bill’s passage into law marks “the first step toward
fiscal reform and a move toward justice,” Finance Minister
 Pierre Moscovici  said in a statement.  With the vote, France becomes the first European country to
impose a transaction tax on share purchases. The Hollande
government is doubling the levy to 0.2 percent from the  0.1
percent  tax initially advocated by former President  Nicolas Sarkozy , according to  a copy of the text . Many institutional
investors may escape the tax using so-called contracts for
difference, or CFDs, offered by prime brokers that let them bet
on a stock’s gain or loss with owning the shares.  The measures come as Hollande seeks to keep his pledge to
cut the  budget deficit  to 4.5 percent of gross domestic product
this year from 5.2 percent in 2011. Hollande’s revised 2012
budget has focused largely on raising taxes rather than cutting
spending. The budget for 2013 will be unveiled late next month.  The French president’s promise to cut the budget deficit
has brought France record low borrowing costs even as government
bond yields in  Spain  and  Italy  have soared. French 10-year bonds
yielded 2.03 percent compared with 6.64 percent for Spain.  Transaction Tax  The new budget also includes higher taxes for the wealthy
and increases levies for large companies.  The transaction tax, aimed at curbing market speculation,
will be paid on the purchase of 109 French stocks with market
values of more than 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion), including
Pernod Ricard SA and  Vivendi SA. (VIV)   The U.K., home to  Europe ’s biggest financial center, has a
stamp duty while opposing a transaction tax. German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said on June 22 that she and the leaders of France,
Italy and Spain agree on the need for such a levy. The other
countries have yet to put one in place. Investors buying U.K.
shares pay a stamp duty of 0.5 percent on their purchase.  “The stamp duty has deformed the market in the U.K. with
people buying more derivatives instead of stocks,” said Pierre- Yves Gauthier, head of strategy at Alphavalue SAS in Paris.
“The example coming from the U.K. shows us that this sort of
tax makes the market more dangerous.”  ADR Delay  The new budget law will be applied to transactions
resulting in “a transfer of property” of companies trading in
Paris, regardless of where the buyer or seller is based, and may
be expanded next year along with some European partners.  France ’s new tax will be applied with a delay on American
Depository Receipts, or ADRs. The certificates that allow
investors to trade foreign stocks like domestic shares will only
be taxed starting Jan. 1, the Budget Ministry said. ADRs are
issued by U.S. banks and make trading easier by eliminating
currency exchanges or the need to trade on a foreign exchange.
How the tax will be imposed on ADRs wasn’t immediately clear.  France estimated that the doubling of the tax will bring in
an additional 170 million euros in 2012 and 500 million euros
next year. The state will start collecting the tax in November,
Budget Minister Jerome Cahuzac’s press office said.  The government estimated that the doubling of the tax will
cut the volume of stock purchases to 800 billion euros from 1.05
trillion euros with a 0.1 percent levy and 1.3 trillion euros
with no transaction tax.  The revised 2012 budget law also includes a tax on fuel
inventories corresponding to 4 percent of the average value of
volumes on the books in the last quarter of the year 2011. The
measure will take effect on Oct. 1 and be a one-time
contribution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet@bloomberg.net ;
Adria Cimino in Pari at 
 acimino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ; 