-- Funds Face Bigger Struggle to Beat U.S. Stocks: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-07-31T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/funds-face-bigger-struggle-to-beat-u-s-stocks-chart-of-the-day.html
Fund managers have more incentive
than usual to push stock prices higher during the second half of
the year, according to Thomas J. Lee, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
chief U.S. equity strategist.  As the CHART OF THE DAY illustrates, only 13 percent of
actively managed funds were beating their benchmark index by at
least 2 1/2 percentage points as of July 23. The proportion was
the lowest at this time of year since at least the mid-1990s,
according to data compiled by JPMorgan and Bloomberg.  “Mutual funds are having the worst year we can
calculate,” Lee wrote in a July 27 report. Of funds run by
stock pickers, 32 percent were at least 2 1/2 points behind
their benchmarks. That matched the highest figure since 2003.  Gains in the past two months were largely responsible, he
wrote, because many managers had previously shifted into stocks
less affected by market swings and missed the latest rally. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 8.3 percent from its second-
quarter low, set on June 1, through yesterday.  Funds that target the largest companies trailed indexes
compiled by Russell Investments by an average of 1.11 points
through July 23, the report said. The figure was based on the
Russell 1000 Index, with a $5.21 billion median market value,
and two variations tied to companies’ growth and value.  All this bodes well for cyclical stocks, or shares of
companies most sensitive to the economy, the New York-based Lee
wrote. Energy, raw-material, industrial and technology companies
are among them, and he recommends holdings in these groups that
exceed their weight in market indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in  New York  at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  