-- Geithner Says Europe Committed to Resolving Crisis
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-07-31T21:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/geithner-says-europe-committed-to-resolving-crisis.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said Europe is “absolutely committed to doing what’s
necessary” to resolve the continent’s debt crisis, one day
after meeting with German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
and European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi .  “This is completely within their financial ability to
solve,” Geithner said today at an event at the Los Angeles
World Affairs Council. He added that “the politics of doing
this are very hard.”  German  government bonds  rose for a second day, and Spanish
bonds slid for the first time in five days as German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s coalition rejected granting the permanent rescue
fund access to European Central Bank liquidity, fueling doubts
that Draghi will fulfill his pledge to “do whatever it takes to
preserve the euro.”  “Both the economic reforms and those changes to the
institutions of Europe are going to take a long time and going
to take time to work,” Geithner said today. “What Europe’s
trying to do now is make sure they do enough to hold things
together, lay the foundation for growth in the short term, bring
down  interest rates .”  Geithner held separate meetings yesterday in Germany with
Schaeuble and Draghi. In a statement released after their
meeting, Geithner and Schaeuble “took note” of comments made
last week by European leaders to “take whatever steps are
necessary to safeguard financial stability” in the 17-nation
euro area.  Unemployment Rises  The jobless rate in the euro area reached the highest on
records dating to 1995 as the debt crisis and deepening economic
slump prompted companies to cut jobs. Unemployment in the
economy of the 17 nations using the euro reached a revised 11.2
percent in May and held at that level in June, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.  Germany ’s 10-year bund yield declined nine basis points, or
0.09 percentage point, to 1.28 percent at 4:52 p.m. London time
after rising to 1.43 percent yesterday, the highest since July
5.  The rules of the European Stability Mechanism don’t provide
for refinancing through the ECB, the German Finance Ministry
said today in an e-mailed response to questions. The ministry
isn’t holding talks on the topic nor are secret meetings taking
place on such proposals, it said.  France, Italy  France and  Italy  are building support for a previously
floated plan to allow the permanent backstop to wield unlimited
firepower courtesy of the ECB, Germany’s Sueddeutsche Zeitung
newspaper reported today, citing a European Union official it
didn’t name. Leading ECB governing council members are among
those who now back the idea, the newspaper said.  Almost three years into Europe’s financial crisis, leaders
are still struggling to hit upon a solution.  France and Italy are “determined” to do everything to
protect the “integrity” of the euro zone, President  Francois
Hollande  and Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said today in a joint
statement released after a working lunch in Paris.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  