-- Geithner Says 2-3 Years of Creative Housing Needed
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-07-31T23:02:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/geithner-says-u-s-needs-2-3-years-of-creative-housing-programs.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said two to three years of “aggressive, creative”
programs are needed to help the U.S. recover from its housing
crisis.  “We’re going to keep at this as long as necessary,”
Geithner said at an event in  Los Angeles  today. “We think
there’s a very good case for people deeply under water,
experiencing hardship, to modify their mortgages by reducing
principal.”  Government-sponsored enterprises Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac 
won’t forgive principal on delinquent mortgages they guarantee,
the firms’ regulator said today. Months of analysis showed there
would be no clear benefit to taxpayers if the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency  were to change its policy barring the mortgage-
finance companies from loan modifications that include debt
writedowns, Edward J. DeMarco, the agency’s acting director,
told reporters.  Geithner criticized the decision in a letter to DeMarco
today. “I do not believe it is the best decision for the
country,” Geithner wrote. “The use of targeted principal
reductions by the GSEs would provide much-needed help to a
significant number of troubled homeowners.”  Activist Groups  DeMarco’s decision follows months of pressure to reverse
the policy from activist groups and congressional Democrats, who
touted it as a way to keep more families from losing their homes
to foreclosure. FHFA has been in talks since January with
Treasury officials, who offered  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac as
much as 63 cents for each dollar of principal reduction, using
unspent funds from the Troubled Asset Relief Program.  “What we’re going to try to do is continue to push as much
as we can to get more relief for the housing market,” Geithner
told the Los Angeles World Affairs Council. “One of the most
powerful tools now you can do now for housing is make it easier
for people to refinance their mortgages.”  DeMarco’s stand and Geithner’s letter reflect tension
between FHFA, an independent agency, and President  Barack Obama ’s Democratic administration, which has pushed to expand
aid for more than 11 million borrowers who owe more than their
homes are worth in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis.  Fannie, Freddie  Fannie Mae, based in Washington, and Freddie Mac of McLean,
Virginia, have drawn almost $190 billion in Treasury aid since
they were taken under U.S. conservatorship in 2008 amid loan
losses that pushed them to the brink of insolvency.  In other remarks, Geithner said  Europe  is “absolutely
committed to doing what’s necessary” to resolve the continent’s
debt crisis, one day after meeting with German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  and European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi .  “This is completely within their financial ability to
solve,” Geithner said. He added that “the politics of doing
this are very hard.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  