-- Generali Second-Quarter Profit May Rise on Fewer Writedowns
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-07-31T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/generali-second-quarter-profit-may-rise-on-fewer-writedowns.html
Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) , Italy’s
biggest insurer, may say second-quarter  profit  rose as year-
earlier writedowns on securities including Greek bonds weren’t
repeated.  Net income probably increased to 254 million euros ($311
million) from 190 million a year earlier, according to the
 average estimate  of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
estimates ranged from 115 million euros to 481 million euros.  “We expect mixed results,” Gianantonio Villani, an
analyst at Kepler Capital Markets, who has a “buy”
recommendation on the stock, wrote in a July 26 report. Net
profit may increase on an annual basis because of weak earnings
a year ago, though profit could fall by half on a like-for-like
basis because of claims related to earthquakes in northern  Italy 
during this year’s quarter, he said.  Generali is grappling with rising losses from its non-life
segment linked to the two quakes in the Emilia Romagna region
May 20 and May 29 and lower investment income in the life
business, which was hurt by the negative trend on equity markets
and Italy’s sovereign debt exposure.  Operating profit is expected to decline 13 percent to 1
billion euros in the quarter, according to the analysts.
Operating profit may decline 26 percent to 302 million euros in
the non-life business, and may drop 6 percent to 737 million
euros in the life segment.  Generali’s main investors ousted Chief Executive Officer
Giovanni Perissinotto in June after the insurer’s profit fell
for four consecutive quarters, replacing him with  Mario Greco .
Greco, 53, will formally join the insurer at a board meeting
Aug. 1, facing the task of reviving profit and strengthening
capital.  “We have positive expectations from the management
reshuffle,” Alberto Villa, an analyst at Intermonte SIM SpA,
wrote in a note July 18. “The new CEO will kick off a process
of rationalizing the group’s activities, which will include
asset disposals, cost-cutting and optimization of investments.”  The insurer is due to  report earnings  on Aug. 2 before the
market opens and will hold a conference call at 10 a.m. the same
day. Following is a table of the analysts’ estimates and the
year-earlier results. The figures are in millions of euros,
except the combined ratio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net  