-- Genworth Posts Fourth Straight Profit; Shares Advance
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-07-31T21:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/genworth-posts-fourth-straight-profit.html
Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the insurer
seeking a chief executive officer, reported its fourth straight
quarterly profit as losses narrowed at the unit backing U.S.
home loans.  The stock gained in extended trading as the company said it
was seeking to charge more for long-term care coverage. Net
income was $76 million, or 16 cents a share, compared with a
loss of $136 million, or 28 cents, a year earlier, the Richmond,
Virginia-based insurer said today in a statement.  Genworth is seeking to guard its  credit rating  after
Moody’s Investors Service said last month that it may be cut
from the lowest of 10 investment-grade levels. Acting CEO Martin Klein is reviewing the  business mix  after losses tied to home
loans drained capital and helped cut about $13 billion from the
 market value  since the end of 2006.  “This is a company that has a lot of moving parts and, as
a consequence of that, it’s challenging for some investors to
get their hands around what’s going on there,”  Mark Palmer , an
analyst at BTIG LLC, said before results were announced. “Given
where the shares are trading we believe there is the potential
for significant appreciation.”  The insurer jumped 7.1 percent to $5.40 in extended trading
at 5:35 p.m. in  New York . Genworth’s shares had  fallen  23
percent this year on the New York Stock Exchange, the biggest
decline in the 81-company  Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials
Index. (S5FINL)  Results were released after the close of regular trading.  Long-Term Care  Genworth said it is taking steps to bolster its long-term
care unit after rivals including  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Prudential
Financial Inc. (PRU)  retreated from the business as near record-low
interest pressured returns.  The insurer will request rate increases on some long-term
care policyholders of more than 50 percent, after getting
approval to raise rates by about 18 percent in 45 states,
Genworth said today. It’s also reduced benefits and raised
prices for new policies.  The pricing increases on existing policies may boost annual
premiums by $200 million to $300 million once implemented, and
Genworth said the changes will take place over five years.  “We are implementing significant rate actions and product
changes as part of a companywide focus on improving business
performance,” Klein said in the statement.  Australia Rebound  The U.S.  mortgage-insurance  segment’s operating loss
narrowed to $25 million in the second quarter from $255 million
a year earlier on a decline in delinquencies. Mortgage insurance
pays lenders when borrowers default and foreclosures fail to
recoup costs. The coverage is typically picked by lenders and
paid for by borrowers.  The international mortgage insurance division had operating
profit of $76 million, compared with a $78 million profit in the
second quarter of 2011. Operating profit at the Australia unit
was $44 million, after a $21 million loss in the first three
months of this year.  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, climbed
to $32.17 at the end of the quarter from $29.99 on March 31.
Investment income fell to $846 million from $881 million a year
earlier.  Credit-default swaps protecting Genworth’s debt against
default for five years fell 0.6 percentage points to 8.8 percent
upfront, down from 9.4 percent yesterday, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Credit Swaps  That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it would
cost $880,000 initially and $500,000 annually to protect $10
million of the company’s debt for five years.  Credit-default swaps typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Klein, the chief financial officer, became acting CEO when
Michael Fraizer resigned in May after shelving plans for the
initial public offering of the Australia business that backs
home loans.  The U.S. life insurance division reported net operating
income of $64 million, down from $100 million a year earlier.  Holding company cash was $1.2 billion as of June 30, down
from $1.4 billion on March 31, as the company made payments on
debt. The figure, which is monitored by investors as a measure
of liquidity, had been about $950 million at end of 2011 and
climbed after a $350 million debt offering in March.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  