-- German Unemployment Rose for Fourth Month in July on Crisis
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-07-31T08:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/german-unemployment-rose-for-a-fourth-month-in-july-on-crisis.html
German  unemployment  climbed for a
fourth straight month in July as the sovereign debt crisis
prompted companies to delay hiring.  The number of people out of work rose a seasonally adjusted
7,000 to 2.89 million, the Federal Labor Agency in Nuremberg
said today. That’s in line with the median forecast of 31
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . The adjusted jobless rate
held at 6.8 percent.  German business confidence fell to a two-year low in July
as market turmoil and recessions in euro-area neighbors damped
the outlook for economic growth and corporate earnings. The
 unemployment rate  is still at its lowest level in two decades
and wages are rising, supporting  consumer spending  in  Europe ’s
largest economy.  “To some extent the labor market has been  Germany ’s active
immunization against the ongoing euro-zone crisis,” said
 Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Belgium SA in Brussels.
“However, signs that this immunization is fading away are hard
to miss. Employers have continuously downscaled their
recruitment plans and employment expectations in the
manufacturing industry have dropped.”  Until April, German unemployment had sustained an almost
uninterrupted decline for more than two and a half years. The
Federal Labor Agency said in a press release today that seasonal
factors including school leavers temporarily registering as
unemployed typically influence the July figures.  Economic Growth  While latest data suggest economic growth is slowing, the
Bundesbank in June predicted expansion of 1 percent this year.
By contrast, the European Commission forecasts a 0.3 percent
contraction for the 17-nation euro economy as a whole.  Moody’s Investors Service on July 23 lowered the outlook on
Germany’s Aaa credit rating to negative, citing the risk that
 Greece  could leave the euro and an “increasing likelihood”
that countries such as Spain and  Italy  will require support.
Purchasing managers’ surveys show Germany’s manufacturing and
service industries are contracting.  ThyssenKrupp Steel Europe AG, Germany’s biggest steelmaker,
said on July 26 that it will introduce shortened shifts for
workers from August due to “ongoing weak orders,” at least
until the end of the year.  Job Cuts  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, will cut as many
as 1,350 jobs in Germany this year at its Ergo insurance unit to
reduce costs, the company said on July 27. Western European
financial firms have announced almost 24,000 job losses this
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Munich-based Ifo institute’s July business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, fell to the lowest
since March 2010 last week. The ZEW Center for European Economic
Research in Mannheim said on July 17 that its index of investor
and analyst expectations fell for a third straight month.  “The uncertainty in the euro area will pass through into
German growth expectations quite clearly in the second half of
this year,” said Lothar Hessler , an economist at  HSBC Trinkaus
& Burkhardt AG (TUB)  in Dusseldorf. “The outlook for the euro area has
significantly worsened.”  Germany’s jobless rate was 5.6 percent in May, according to
the latest harmonized Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development figures. That compared with 8.2 percent in the U.S.,
10.1 percent in  France  and Italy and a euro-area average of 11.1
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Nuremburg at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  