-- German Bunds Rise 2nd Day on Concern ECB Measures to Fall Short
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-07-31T15:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/german-bunds-advance-after-retail-sales-unexpectedly-decline.html
German  government bonds  rose for a
second day amid speculation European policy makers will be
unable to follow through on their pledge to shore up the single-
currency area’s economy when they meet this week.  Two-year note yields fell to a record as investors returned
to the region’s safest assets after a report showed euro-area
unemployment climbed to an all-time high. Spanish bonds slid for
the first time in five days as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
coalition rejected granting the permanent rescue fund access to
European Central Bank liquidity, fueling doubts that ECB
PresidentMario Draghi will fulfill his pledge to “do whatever
it takes to preserve the euro.”  “The market is having some second thoughts on what to
expect on Thursday,” said Elwin de Groot, a senior market
economist at Rabobank Nederland in Utrecht. “It’s clear that
the discussion is starting to move and that’s a positive thing,
but there’s also a clear risk that Draghi may have to
disappoint.”  Germany ’s 10-year bund yield declined nine basis points, or
0.09 percentage point, to 1.28 percent at 4:52 p.m.  London  time
after rising to 1.43 percent yesterday, the highest since July
5. The 1.75 percent security due July 2022 gained 0.89, or 8.90
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,228) face amount, to 104.34.  Two-year note yields dropped to a record minus 0.097
percent. Yields below zero mean investors who hold the debt to
maturity will receive less than they paid to buy them.  Draghi’s Pledge  The Frankfurt-based ECB meets to review policy decision on
Aug. 2. The central bank supported the  bond market  in previous
periods of financial turmoil by purchasing securities in the
secondary market and by offering unlimited three-year loans
under its Longer-Term Refinancing Operations, some of which
banks reinvested in sovereign debt.  “Within our mandate, the ECB is ready to do whatever it
takes to preserve the euro,” Draghi said in a speech in London
on July 26. “Believe me, it will be enough.”  German retail sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal
swings, fell 0.1 percent last month, after slipping 0.3 percent
in May, the Federal Statistics Office said in Wiesbaden.
Unemployment in the euro area was 11.2 percent in June, the
European Union’s statistics office said in Luxembourg. That’s
the highest since the data series started in 1995.  Spanish  10-year bond yields  rose 14 basis points to 6.75
percent after tumbling more than 1 percentage point in the
previous four days. Italy’s 10-year yield climbed six basis
points to 6.08 percent.  ‘Down Significantly’  “The rate in Spain has come down significantly,” said
 Matteo Regesta , a senior fixed-income strategist at BNP Paribas
SA in London. “There is a risk for the market to be
disappointed. The market wants the real thing, for the ECB to
show them the money. If it doesn’t show the money we’ll move
back.”  The rules of the European Stability Mechanism don’t foresee
a license to allow refinancing at the ECB, the Berlin-based
 finance ministry  said today in an e-mailed response to
questions. The ministry isn’t holding talks on the topic and
neither are secret meetings taking place on such proposals, it
said.  The European Financial Stability Facility, the region’s
rescue fund, sold 1.5 billion euros of 1.125 percent bonds
maturing in 2015 at an average yield of 0.54 percent. Investors
bid for 3.7 times the amount of securities allotted, the
Bundesbank said in a statement.  Fund Intervention  The rescue fund hasn’t been asked to intervene in the bond
market, the European Commission said today. “I can confirm that
there has been no request by any member state, as I said
yesterday, to resort to further EFSF support,” commission
spokesman Antoine Colombani told reporters in Brussels.  German debt has returned 1.4 percent this month, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  Spain ’s securities dropped 0.9
percent, while Italy’s declined 0.7 percent.  Volatility on Dutch bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by the Finland and  Austria , according to
measures of 10-year debt, the spread between two-year and 10-
year securities and credit-default swaps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  