-- Merkel Allies Harden Opposition to Granting ESM Bank License
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-07-31T16:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/german-finance-ministry-sees-no-need-to-give-esm-bank-license.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
coalition rejected granting the permanent euro rescue fund
access to European Central Bank liquidity via a banking license,
as the  Finance Ministry  said it saw no need for any such move.  The rules of the European Stability Mechanism don’t provide
for refinancing through the ECB, the ministry in Berlin said
today in an e-mailed response to questions. The ministry isn’t
holding talks on the topic nor are secret meetings taking place
on such proposals, it said.  France and Italy are building support for a previously
floated plan to allow the permanent backstop to wield unlimited
firepower courtesy of the ECB, Germany’s Sueddeutsche Zeitung
newspaper reported today, citing a European Union official it
didn’t name. Leading ECB governing council members are among
those who now back the idea, the newspaper said.  Lawmakers from all three parties in Merkel’s coalition
immediately repudiated the suggestion. It is a “dangerous
attempt” to bypass the ban on the central bank financing states
directly, said Hans Michelbach of the Bavarian  Christian Social
Union . The Free Democratic Party’s  Rainer Bruederle  told Die
Welt newspaper such a mechanism is a “wealth-destroying
weapon,” while  Norbert Barthle  of Merkel’s Christian Democratic
Union said it won’t happen.  “Those who try to circumvent their own rules through the
back door lose their legitimacy in the eyes of the public,”
Michelbach said in an e-mailed statement. “Financing debt by
means of the printing press leads to growing inflation
dangers.”  Draghi’s Pledge  Almost three years into Europe’s financial crisis, leaders
are still struggling to hit upon a solution. Spanish and Italian
borrowing costs retreated from euro-era records last week as ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said he will do everything that is needed
to safeguard the euro area.  France and Italy are “determined” to do everything to
protect the “integrity” of the  euro zone , President  Francois Hollande  and Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said today in a joint
statement released after a working lunch in Paris.  “Several countries in the euro zone must today refinance
at  interest rates  that are too high, even as they conduct
difficult but necessary economic reforms,” they said. “The
member states, as well as European institutions, each according
to its prerogatives, must fulfil their obligations to maintain
the stability and the proper functioning of the euro zone and of
the internal market.”  North vs South  Bruederle, a former German economy minister who is now
parliamentary floor leader of Merkel’s junior coalition partner,
pushed back against the southern European axis in his interview
in Die Welt, warning that financial burdens placed on
“contributors from the north” are not without limit.  “Madrid, Rome and Paris shouldn’t overplay their hand,”
Bruederle said, according to Die Welt.  A banking license for the ESM would pile up budgetary risks
and set incentives to simply continue policies of endless debt
accumulation, said Michelbach. The ECB’s purchase of Italian
bonds in the secondary market curtailed the government’s resolve
to change economic policy, and a renewed round of bond buying
would harden  Italy ’s refusal to carry out reforms, he said.  “It’s clear that the ESM shouldn’t become the ECB’s bad
bank,” Barthle, parliamentary budget spokesman for Merkel’s
party, told Tagesspiegel newspaper in an interview. It makes
“no sense to speculate daily about ideas to solve the euro
crisis,” he said. “We need calm and discretion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  