-- Phelps Sets Medal Record, Ye Wins Again, U.S. Gymnasts Take Gold
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-08-01T01:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/germany-wins-first-olympic-gold-phelps-aims-for-medal-record.html
Michael Phelps  made the biggest
splash at the  London  Olympics on a day dominated by headliners
including teenage Chinese swimmer Ye Shiwen, British royal  Zara Phillips  and the gold-medal U.S. women’s gymnastics team.  Phelps broke the record for medals by an Olympic athlete
yesterday with his 19th on the winning U.S. 800-meter freestyle
relay squad. It was the first gold medal of these games for the
27-year-old American, and the record 15th of his career.  “I told them to give me the biggest lead they could,”
Phelps told reporters. “It’s very special.”  Sixty-five minutes earlier, Phelps tied the mark of 18 set
by former Soviet Union gymnast Larissa Latynina by taking silver
in the 200-meter butterfly. He was beaten in the final stroke by
South African Chad le Clos.  Medals will be awarded in 20 events today, including the
men’s individual all-around title in gymnastics. There also are
four medal races in the pool, with 17-year-old Missy Franklin of
the U.S. seeking her second gold of the games in the women’s
800-meter freestyle relay.  Phelps, who is swimming in his fourth Olympics and has said
he will retire after the London Games, still has three races
left -- two individual and one relay.  His record-breaking 19th medal came when the U.S. relay
squad --  Ryan Lochte , Conor Dwyer, Ricky Berens and anchor
Phelps -- won in 6 minutes, 59.7 seconds to successfully defend
its Olympic title. France won the silver medal and  China  took
the bronze.  Set on Gold  “We all wanted to do our part, we all wanted to make sure
we got the biggest lead for him,” Lochte, 27, said of Phelps.
“So when he dove in, he didn’t have to work, he knew he was set
solely on gold.”  Phelps came within one stroke of another gold in the
butterfly before having to settle for second place behind 20-
year-old Le Clos, who reached for the wall as Phelps tried to
glide in and become the first man to win a swimming event in
three consecutive Olympics.  “Michael’s my hero and I didn’t expect to win,” Le Clos,
said in a poolside interview after winning in 1 minute, 52.96
seconds. “I just wanted to race against him in the final.”  Phelps, the world record-holder in the 200 butterfly at
1:51.51, finished yesterday in 1:53.01. Takeshi Matsuda of  Japan 
won the bronze medal.  Ye Wins Again  Ye, 16, won her second gold medal of the London Games by
winning the 200-meter individual medley in an Olympic-record
time of 2:07.57, breaking the mark she had set a day earlier.
She set a world record while winning the 400-meter medley crown
three days earlier.  Ye was made the 1-66 favorite by bookmaker  William Hill
Plc (WMH) , and she led from start to finish. Alicia Coutts of
 Australia  won the silver in 2:08.15 and Caitlin Leverenz of the
U.S. took bronze in 2:08.95.  “I didn’t expect the others to swim so fast,” Ye told
reporters. “I was surprised.”  The fourth medal event yesterday at the Aquatics Centre was
the women’s 200-meter freestyle, won by 22-year-old American
Allison Schmitt in a Olympic-record 1:53.61. Camille Muffat of
 France  took silver, Bronte Barratt of Australia won the bronze
medal and Franklin came in fourth.  After four full days of competition, China continues to
lead the standings with 13 golds among its 23 medals. The U.S.
also has 23 medals, nine of them gold. The Olympics opened July
27 and run through Aug. 12.  Gymnastics Gold  The U.S. women won their first gymnastics team gold since
the 1996 Atlanta Games. Russia was second and  Romania , which has
won a women’s gymnastics team medal in 10 straight Olympics,
took the bronze. The Americans won the silver the past two
Olympics in Beijing and  Athens .  “This is my ultimate goal to be part of this team and win
that gold medal,” U.S. team member Jordyn Wieber said. “I’m
really happy.”  The U.S. scored 183.596 in the four-part gymnastics final
to beat the Russians by 25 points. The team, captained by 18-
year-old Alexandra Raisman, also is composed of Wieber, 17;
Gabrielle Douglas, 16; Kyla Ross, 15, and McKayla Maroney, 16.  Phillips, granddaughter of  Queen Elizabeth II , helped
 Germany  win the gold medal in the equestrian team eventing when
she was penalized for hitting a fence and a slow ride.  Phillips, riding High Kingdom, cost the British team seven
points at Greenwich Park in southeast London. Germany took gold
with 133.70 penalties, compared with 138.20 for Britain.  New
Zealand  won bronze with 144.40.  The host nation is still awaiting its first gold medal.  “I messed up at the start, but I told myself I had to get
on with it,” Phillips, 31, told reporters. “I’m very
disappointed for the team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  