-- Giant Clam Feeds Palau Legislator Thanks to U.S. Gifts
-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 2012-07-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/giant-clam-feeds-palau-legislator-thanks-to-u-s-gifts.html
I was sitting in a 16-foot skiff
with Governor Thomas Patris of the state of Hatohobei, Palau,
anchored over Helen Reef. While the governor talked about a new
agreement his community has made with  OneReef , a U.S.
conservation group, Hatohobei Congressman Wayne Andrew was
spear-fishing below us.  “We agree to protect the reef and maintain it,” said
Patris, who represents about 200 people in this remote corner of
the western Pacific, a little north of the equator and about
1,000 kilometers east of the  Philippines . “So that when our
children grow up, they will see the same thing that we saw: an
abundance of coral, turtles and plants.”  Onereef, based in  Santa Cruz ,  California , has brokered an
agreement between North American benefactors and the Hatohobei
community to help finance reef protection. The terms are modest:
$35,000 a year for 20 years, with the potential to renew. In
return, the Palauans agree to establish no-take or catch limits,
monitor the reef and keep the community informed and engaged.  Andrew surfaced at my elbow and handed me flesh the size of
a life vest from a giant clam. The congressman scrambled into
the boat and, using the same enormous knife with which he
disembodied the mollusk, sliced the clam into sashimi bites,
tossing them in a pan with lemon, soy sauce and taro.  It is easy to see how valuable the reefs are to the
Palauans. They fish constantly, using conventional rods,
trolling lines, homemade spear guns. During my week on the reef,
we feasted on fresh wahoo, Spanish mackerel, jack and more giant
clam.  Illegal Harvest  The immediate threat to the reef is overfishing, but not by
the Palauans. Boats from  Indonesia , the Philippines,  China  and
elsewhere have been harvesting fish illegally for years, with
remote sites like Helen Reef an easy target.  “The poaching has gotten more sophisticated,” Andrew
said. “China is so far away, I wonder why they are coming here
-- China must be overfished. We resist not just to protect our
rights but to show the world that we are serious about
protecting our resources for our children.”  We anchored off Helen Island, a spit of land barely a
kilometer long, uninhabited but for a ranger station and several
thousand screaming black noddies and white terns. At first
glance I thought the terns flying over the water are bright
blue, until I saw they were merely reflecting the azure sea. The
island is a vital nesting spot for sea birds and endangered
green turtles.  Turtle Eggs  My timing was good. One night on the island a female turtle
the size of a manhole cover crawled up the beach to shovel out a
hole for her eggs, while a small group of us watched from a
distance. She laid dozens of eggs and was gone the next morning.  Conservation officers on Helen Island keep track of the
turtles, counting eggs and nursing injured hatchlings until they
are strong enough to embark on their own chelonian odysseys.  Onereef’s founder,  Chris LaFranchi , was here to check in on
the state of the reef. His role has been to connect distant
environmental philanthropists with small reef-dependent
communities like this one.  “We’re trying to create the structure under which both
these parties, which are so different and wouldn’t otherwise
know each other, can cooperate to their mutual benefit,”
LaFranchi said.  Key to the agreements is the guarantee of long-term
support.  “We want to maintain a commitment over the long haul to
help these reefs, to get what is needed to adapt to  climate
change ,” he said.  Doomed Atolls  Global warming is in fact the other big threat to the reef.
The dynamics are complex, but if rising temperatures elevate sea
levels, incite more storms and kill off coral beds, then atolls
like Helen Reef are doomed.  It is unlikely that the major polluters -- the U.S., China,
 India  -- will make serious cuts in  carbon emissions  anytime
soon, so addressing climate change on the front lines in places
like Palau is a matter of adapting. With an assist from partners
halfway around the world, the Palauans are trying. They have no
choice.  (Mike Di Paola writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James Pressley  on business books
and  Richard Vines  on dining.  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 