-- GM Said to Oust Marketing Chief Over Soccer Jersey Deal
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/gm-said-to-oust-marketing-chief-over-soccer-jersey-deal.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  ousted  Joel Ewanick , the high-profile marketing chief brought in to change
the automaker’s image, after company officials questioned the
propriety of a deal he negotiated to sponsor the Manchester
United soccer team, people familiar with the matter said.  GM agreed to pay more than 25 million pounds ($39 million)
per year for seven years to put its  Chevrolet  brand on the
team’s jerseys, according to the people, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is private. That’s 25 percent more
than current sponsor  Aon Corp. (AON)  pays. Terms weren’t disclosed in
company statements.  GM leaders  had to ask for Ewanick’s resignation after they
perceived that he failed to make clear some details of the
contract to the senior management team, the people said. As a
result, the leaders didn’t know the true cost of the United
deal, worth about $300 million to be on the jerseys, one of the
people said. GM plans to honor the arrangement, which was
altered from what Ewanick originally crafted, the people said.  “Ewanick’s departure may not be indicative of a problem
with GM’s marketing strategy or dissatisfaction with GM’s market
share, but it doesn’t make things any easier,” Adam Jonas, an
analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a note yesterday.  Ewanick’s departure places greater pressure on Chief
Executive Officer Dan Akerson, who has overseen several senior
leadership changes as the company tries to stem losses in  Europe 
that have totaled $16.4 billion since 1999. Ewanick had
announced marketing moves aimed at finding efficiencies and
saving $2 billion over five years as part of Akerson’s push to
improve operating margins.  Track Record  Tom Henderson , a GM spokesman, yesterday declined to
comment on the value of the sponsorship deal. Ewanick didn’t
“meet the company’s expectations of an employee,” GM said July
29 in an e-mailed statement.  Ewanick was recruited to GM in 2010 from  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) 
just two months after he joined the Yokohama, Japan-based
automaker.  Before that he was with  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  as vice president
for marketing for the U.S. sales division from 2007. It was
there where he created his most memorable campaign, the
“Hyundai Assurance” program that allowed buyers who lost their
jobs to walk away from their finance contracts, an appealing
pitch during the recession.  He joined GM during a time of management upheaval. Then-CEO
 Ed Whitacre  had ousted or reassigned more than 30 managers,
mostly in sales and marketing.  Ewanick said it was his privilege to “be a small part of
Detroit’s turnaround” in a July 29 post on Twitter.  Unsettled Management  Ewanick’s departure shows that GM is still far from
settling its management ranks despite recruiting several
outsiders for top jobs, said  Maryann Keller , principal of
Maryann Keller & Associates, a consulting firm in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . By contrast, Ford Motor Co. CEO  Alan Mulally 
brought in just one outsider, marketer  Jim Farley , after taking
over in 2006 and has kept a stable management team, Keller said.  “You have a company that still seems to have too much
internal dysfunction,” Keller said of GM in a telephone
interview. “Mulally really only brought in one high-profile
outsider. He proved you can take an organization that was rife
with politics and fix it.”  Ewanick arrived with task of improving the image of GM’s
Chevrolet, Cadillac, Buick and GMC brands. He introduced the
“Chevy Runs Deep” campaign in 2010 during the broadcast of
 Major League Baseball ’s World Series that was intended to
emphasize the brand’s heritage and emotional connection. It’s a
tagline that Ewanick said earlier this year was under review.  ‘Shabby’ Marketing  “The marketing has been shabby, erratic and inconsistent
so the move is most likely positive for GM if it can find
someone who has any notion at all of what the individual
divisions stand for,” Art Spinella, president of CNW Marketing
Research, said in an e-mail. “The ad agencies have been doing
the best they can under Mr. Ewanick’s often helter-skelter
approach.”  Facing greater competition from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  after
regaining production capability following last year’s Asian
natural disasters, GM’s first-half U.S. market share fell to
18.1 percent from 19.9 percent a year earlier, according to
researcher Autodata Corp.  Toyota’s worldwide sales surged 34 percent in 2012’s first
half to 4.97 million, ahead of GM’s 4.67 million, putting the
Toyota City, Japan-based company on pace to regain the top spot.  Facebook, Football  Ewanick’s ousting follows a string of high profile
statements in recent months that drew attention to GM’s
marketing operations and away from marketing its cars.  In May, on the eve of Facebook’s initial public offering,
Ewanick announced GM would stop advertising on the social
network and questioned its value. A few days later, he announced
GM wouldn’t advertise in next year’s  Super Bowl  on CBS, saying
it had grown too expensive. In June, he made  off-color jokes 
during an advertising conference in Cannes, France, trade
magazine Advertising Age reported.  “Part of the reason that it may have been a little bit
easier for him to be let go was that his track record was
mediocre at best,”  Rebecca Lindland , an industry analyst from
IHS Automotive, said in a telephone interview. “Recent
decisions have caused a lot of upheaval. Upheaval doesn’t have
to be bad if it’s productive. I don’t know how productive this
upheaval was for everybody.”  Aggressive Changes  Ewanick had also been aggressive behind the scenes. He
turned over GM’s media planning and buying to  Aegis Group Plc (AGS) ’s
Carat, and Chevy’s ad business was assigned to a newly created
firm called Commonwealth, a joint venture between  Omnicom Group
Inc. (OMC) ’s Goodby, Silverstein & Partners and Interpublic Group of
Companies Inc.’s McCann Erickson Worldwide.  Chevrolet , GM’s
largest brand by unit sales, previously used 70 ad agencies
around the world, the carmaker said at the time. The moves were
expected to save $2 billion over five years, GM said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  