-- Gold Fields Looking to Buy Mines to Replace Domestic Supplies
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-07-31T09:19:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/gold-fields-looking-to-buy-mines-to-replace-domestic-supplies.html
Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , the South African
producer that announced spending of $1.15 billion on assets last
year, is looking for more deals to replace dwindling supply from
its domestic operations as demand for bullion grows.  Mines in the Andean corridor in South America, British
Columbia in Canada, the Tien Shan belt that runs through
Kyrgyzstan and China, and the Philippines are of particular
interest,  Nick Holland , chief executive officer of the
Johannesburg-based company, said today in an interview,
declining to say when a deal might be concluded. It’s also
exploring for mines in Australia, he said.  “In  South Africa  a lot of the  gold mines  are getting older
and mature and they’re getting deeper and further away,”
Holland said in  Melbourne . “You need to go where the large
belts are and explore.”  South African gold producers including  AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd. (ANG)  and Harmony Gold Mining Co. are struggling to boost output
to benefit from rising gold prices and counter higher costs.
Gold is up 3.7 percent this year, adding to 11 consecutive
annual gains as investors sought a hedge against everything from
accelerating inflation to Europe’s debt crisis to slumping
equities.  “Demand is reasonably solid and should remain so, provided
the two principal drivers, China and India, continue to grow
into the future, which looks likely,” Holland said separately
at a speech in Melbourne.  There have been 225 mergers and acquisitions worth a
combined $5.47 billion in the gold  mining industry  this year,
compared with $39.2 billion for the whole of 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gold Fields in May trimmed its full-year production outlook
to 3.5 million ounces from a range of 3.5 million ounces to 3.7
million ounces because of technical difficulties. First-half
output was 1.69 million ounces, it said July 4. The full-year
guidance is unchanged, Holland said today.  Gold Fields shares were little changed at 108.02 rand at
the close in Johannesburg yesterday. The  stock  has dropped 13
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  