-- Google Asked for Street View Data by French Privacy Agency
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-07-31T15:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/google-told-to-show-street-view-data-to-french-privacy-agency.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  was asked to provide
 France ’s data-protection authority with information gathered
through its Street View service, which it should have deleted
after a 2011 fine.  The request came four days after the British privacy
watchdog announced a similar request. Google, owner of the
world’s biggest search engine, informed European privacy
agencies on July 27 that it still had some of the data, the
French authority, known as CNIL, said on its  website .  The U.K. Information Commissioner’s Office said that day it
would coordinate a response to Google’s failure to delete the
information. CNIL, like the ICO, asked the  Mountain View ,
California-based company to retain the data while it conducted
the review.  Google still has “a small portion of payload data
collected” by its Street View cars in the U.K.,  Peter Fleischer , the company’s global privacy counsel, said in its
July 27 letter to the ICO, seeking permission to delete the
remaining information. In addition to photographing and mapping,
Google’s Street View cars collected data from unrestricted
wireless connections to gather people’s personal communications.  “Google apologizes for this error,” the company said
today in an e-mailed statement, reiterating it “would now like
to delete the remaining data.”  The U.K. data authority re-opened its probe into the Street
View breach in June after finding the company’s statements
during a 2010 inquiry could have been contradicted by American
investigators’ findings.  Google was fined $25,000 by the  U.S. Federal Communications
Commission  earlier this year for impeding its investigation into
improper data gathering. In an agreement ending the U.K. inquiry
into Street View in November 2010, Google agreed to further ICO
audits of its privacy practices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  