-- Google Acquires Wildfire, Adding Social Tools for Businesses
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-07-31T21:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/google-acquires-wildfire-adding-social-tools-for-businesses-1-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
largest Internet search engine, said it is acquiring Wildfire
Interactive Inc., a startup that helps companies market their
wares via social media.  Google will pay about $250 million plus performance
incentives for Redwood City, California-based Wildfire,
according to two people familiar with the matter, who asked not
to be identified because the price wasn’t publicly disclosed.
Rob Shilkin, a spokesman for Google, declined to comment.  Companies such as  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  have been buying
startups that specialize in social-media marketing, seeking to
capture a bigger slice of advertising budgets devoted to
reaching consumers who interact over the Web. Google has stepped
up its efforts in social with Google+, a service it started last
year that competes directly with  Facebook Inc. (FB) , owner of the
biggest social network.  “It’s a platform for brands to manage their pages, apps,
tweets, videos, sponsorships, ads, promotions and more, all in
one place,” Mountain View, California-based Google said in a
blog posting today about Wildfire. “The ultimate goal is better
and fresher content, and more meaningful interactions.”  Wildfire’s Services  Wildfire, with investors such as Summit Partners and fbFund
-- whose capital comes from Founders Fund and Accel Partners --
has customers such as PepsiCo Inc. and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) 
Wildfire’s services can help clients boost interest on Facebook
and other social sites, including Twitter Inc. and Google+.  “Over time the combination of Wildfire and Google can lead
to a better platform for managing all digital media marketing,”
the company said on its  website . “Wildfire will operate as
usual, and there will be no changes to our service and support
for our customers.”  Salesforce said on June 4 that it would pay $745 million
for Buddy Media Inc., which helps companies create social-media
campaigns. Earlier this month,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the world’s largest
maker of database software, said it is buying Involver Inc., the
third acquisition in two months aimed at helping customers use
social-media tools.  Google shares rose less than 1 percent to $632.97 at the
close in New York. The stock has declined 2 percent this year.  The price of Google’s Wildfire acquisition was reported
earlier by  Advertising Age .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  