-- Governments to Turn to Inflation as Stocks Fail, Pimco Says
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-07-31T20:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/governments-to-turn-to-inflation-as-equities-fail-pimco-says.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said
governments may turn to financial repression and various forms
of quantitative easing to inflate asset values as equities fail
to match historical returns.  The so-called Siegel Constant, which purports to show a
long-term history of inflation-adjusted equity real returns of
6.6 percent since 1912, may be a “historical freak” unlikely
to be seen again, Gross said in his monthly investment outlook
posted on the  Newport Beach , California-based company’s  website 
today. Presuming a 2 percent return for bonds and 4 percent
nominal returns for stocks, a diversified portfolio produces a
nominal return of 3 percent and inflation-adjusted returns near
zero, he wrote.  Since private pension funds, government budgets and
household savings balances often assume a minimum 7 percent to 8
percent minimum annual appreciation, policy makers emulating
historical patterns may be tempted to inflate their way “out of
the corner,” even though inflation doesn’t create true wealth
and doesn’t fairly distribute pain and benefits across society,
Gross wrote.  Equity ’Cult’  “Unfair though it may be, an investor should continue to
expect an attempted inflationary solution in all almost all
developed economies over the next few years and even decades,”
Gross wrote. “The cult of equity may be dying, but the cult of
inflation may have only just begun.”  Gross in June kept the proportion of U.S. government and
Treasury debt in his $263.4 billion Total Return Fund unchanged
at 35 percent of assets, according to a report July 11 on the
company’s  website . Mortgages were at 52 percent for a second
consecutive month. Pimco doesn’t comment directly on monthly
changes in its portfolio holdings.  In developed nations, Gross has advised investors to favor
debt of the U.K., as well as the U.S., as  Germany  faces risks
related to the eventual costs required to end the region’s
worsening sovereign and banking crisis.  The U.S. Treasury market is considered the cleanest “dirty
shirts” for investors, Gross wrote in his previous commentary.
“Don’t underweight  Uncle Sam  in a debt crisis. Money seeking a
safe haven will find it in America’s deep and liquid, almost Aaa
rated, bond and equity markets.”  Record Lows  The yield on the 10-year note dropped three basis points
today to 1.47 percent at 4:41 p.m. in  New York . Treasuries
yields sank to record lows last week, with the yield on the 10-
year note reaching 1.379 percent on July 25 amid concern the
 European debt crisis  was slowing the global economy. The 30-year
bond yield touched a record 2.44 percent on July 26.  A report July 27 showed the  U.S. economy  cooled in the
second quarter as limited job growth prompted Americans to curb
spending while state and local governments cut back.  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced, rose at a 1.5 percent annual rate after a revised 2
percent gain in the prior quarter, Commerce Department data
showed in  Washington . Household purchases, which account for
about 70 percent of GDP, grew at the slowest pace in a year.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  meets today and tomorrow
amid speculation they may act to strengthen the economy.
Developed nations’ central banks, from the  Federal Reserve  to
the  European Central Bank , have cut rates to record lows since
2008. Fed policy makers have said they expect to keep their
target rate for overnight loans between banks low through late
2014. The Fed’s benchmark rate is in a range of zero to 0.25
percent.  Pimco’s Total Return Fund gained 7.3 percent during the
past year, beating 73 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  