-- Gulf Coast Refined Products Gain With Enbridge Pipeline Shut
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-07-31T18:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/gulf-coast-refined-products-gain-with-enbridge-pipeline-shut.html
Gulf Coast gasoline and diesel
strengthened amid speculation that traders are shipping the
product to the Midwest, where refiners have shut equipment for
repairs and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  closed a crude oil pipeline.  A unit at Citgo Petroleum Corp.’s Lemont plant was shut
because of an upset, according to state filing yesterday.
Enbridge halted transmission on Line 14 on July 27 after the
pipe spilled an estimated 1,200 barrels of oil in Wisconsin.  “The longer it lasts the more likely run-cuts become,”
Steve Mosby, vice president of supply consultant ADMO Energy LLC
in  Kansas City , Missouri, said in an electronic message. Gulf
prices have become stronger, he said.  The discount for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in the
Gulf Coast narrowed 1.05 cents to 6.2 cents a gallon versus
futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 2:15 p.m.,
according to Bloomberg. Prompt delivery slipped 2.77 cents to
$2.7182 a gallon.  A fluid catalytic cracking unit at the Lemont refinery is
undergoing maintenance that should be finished within the week,
Citgo said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. BP Plc shut a
coker at its Whiting refinery in  Indiana  to repair damage from a
fire July 23 that could take as long as four weeks to repair, a
person with knowledge of operations at the plant said July 27.  The tariff to ship oil products on the Explorer pipeline,
which runs from  Lake Charles , Louisiana, through Tulsa,
Oklahoma, to Hammond, Indiana, is 4.73 cents a gallon, according
to a regulatory  filing .  The premium for ultra-low-sulfur diesel at  the Gulf Coast
hub  gained 1.35 cents to 6.7 cents a gallon. It’s the highest
level since July 18.  Enbridge Inc. can’t resume transporting oil on Line 14
until it submits a restart plan to the U.S. Pipeline and
Hazardous Materials Safety Administration for approval. The
317,600-barrel-a-day pipe runs from Superior, Wisconsin, to the
Griffith-Hartsdale area in Indiana.  The premium for conventional gasoline in  Chicago  rose 2.5
cents to 26 cents a gallon. It is the highest level since June
12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  