-- Libor Punishment Could Be Worse Than the Crime
-- B y   M i k h a i l   C h e r n o v
-- 2012-07-31T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/libor-punishment-could-be-worse-than-the-crime.html
People are rightly appalled at the
way bankers manipulated Libor, a benchmark  interest rate  that
influences the value of hundreds of trillions of dollars in
financial contracts worldwide.  But before authorities topple more banks’ managements and
scrap an indicator that has served the market for three decades,
they should ask themselves a question: Who was really harmed?  The most significant misreporting of the London interbank
offered rate, in an economic sense, occurred during the
financial crisis. Banks lowered the borrowing rates they
reported for the calculation of Libor because they wanted to
avoid the impression that they were in distress.  Some estimates 
suggest  U.S. dollar  Libor might, at certain times during 2008,
have been artificially depressed by more than 0.30 percentage
point.  The misreporting was bad for investors in various
securities, such as mortgage bonds tied to Libor, because it
artificially lowered the payments they received. It also
provided a welcome relief for millions of struggling U.S.
homeowners with floating-rate mortgages, and greatly helped the
 Federal Reserve  in its efforts to get interest rates down. At
the time, the Wall Street Journal  estimated  that the benefit to
homeowners and other borrowers amounted to more than $10 billion
a month -- a meaningful stimulus at a crucial moment in the
recession.  Utility Functions  This vast transfer of wealth was not necessarily a zero-sum
game, because the winners and losers were very different people.
In economic terms, they had different utility functions: A $100
break on a monthly payment would mean a lot more to an
unemployed homeowner than a loss of $10,000 to a relatively
wealthy investor. So it’s probable that, on balance, the benefit
to homeowners outweighed the suffering of investors.  In other words, by lying about their borrowing costs to
make themselves look healthier than they were, banks might
actually have done humanity a great service. The people and
institutions harmed were largely sophisticated types who should
have known what they were getting into. Although anyone who
committed fraud should be punished to the full extent of the
law, authorities should consider this context in deciding what
to do with the senior managements of the banks involved.  There is, of course, no guarantee that at some point in the
future, bankers won’t have an incentive to overstate their cost
of funds as systematically as they understated it during the
crisis. It’s hard, though, to imagine a situation that would
compel them to do so. Individual banks have different
investments that a rise in interest rates would affect in
complex and conflicting ways. Only something as powerful as the
fear of bank runs can override those varied interests. In such
cases the incentive is always the same: Push rates down to avoid
looking weak.  Libor actually works pretty well most of the time. Outside
of crisis periods,  dollar Libor  closely tracks interest rates on
U.S. Treasuries. Any significant divergence would immediately
set off alarm bells and create arbitrage opportunities, limiting
banks’ ability to manipulate the rate. When crises do happen,
the incentives to lie arise in a way that -- thanks to the Libor
scandal -- we now understand pretty well.  Any potential replacement for Libor could entail all kinds
of new and less manageable flaws. Consider the general
collateral repo rate, the rate at which banks make loans against
good collateral, such as Treasuries. It has the advantage of
being based on actual, observable loans, as opposed to Libor,
which relies on banks to estimate their borrowing costs. Yet the
repo rate is also tied to supply and demand in the Treasury
market, which can fluctuate in unpredictable ways -- for
example, when global investors are looking for a safe place to
park their cash.  Keeping Libor  In some markets, then, it might be best to stick with
Libor. One solution would be to separate Main Street from  Wall
Street , in much the same way we do by allowing only wealthy,
sophisticated investors to put their money in  hedge funds .
Consumer products such as mortgages and auto loans could be
pegged to the central bank’s target interest rate, as is already
done in some countries. Financial professionals could decide on
the best benchmark for all their derivative contracts and so on.
If they still prefer Libor, so be it.  For all its shortcomings, Libor is the evil we know. Before
we throw it out and start over, we should consider the potential
for unintended consequences.  (Mikhail Chernov is a finance professor at the  London
School  of Economics. He has worked as an academic consultant to
various institutions, including the U.S. Federal Reserve, the
 Bank of England  and Barclays Plc. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on demanding a compromise to
 stop the fiscal cliff  and on why  Thailand needs political
stability ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Mitt Romney ’s  stumbles over his
wealth ; Clive Crook on why  Germany  should let the ECB do
 “whatever it takes” ;  Amity Shlaes  on why the Fed should  stop
sailing against the wind ; Richard Cohen on the drama of the
 Olympic fencing duels ; Handel Reynolds on the  politics of
mammograms .  To contact the writer of this article:
Mikhail Chernov at  m.chernov@lse.ac.uk .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 