-- Microsoft to Phase Out Hotmail, Focus on Outlook E-Mail
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-07-31T23:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/microsoft-to-phase-out-hotmail-focus-on-outlook-e-mail.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s biggest
software maker, will introduce a new, free Web-based e-mail
portal under its Outlook brand and phase out Hotmail over time
as it seeks to draw users from  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Gmail.  A  preview  of the new service went online today and Hotmail
probably will be phased out in the next year, said Brian Hall, a
general manager in Microsoft’s Windows group, in an interview.  By going with Outlook, Microsoft is trying to capitalize on
the brand behind the most-used corporate e-mail service, sold as
part of its Office suite. While Hotmail is the world’s most
popular Web-based e-mail provider, it has lost ground in the
U.S. to Google and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  as well as other, newer methods
of communication, such as social media.  “E-mail is one of the only areas in technology that’s gone
eight years without a significant change -- the last big move
was the release of Gmail -- and for us it’s maybe been even
longer than that since our last big change,” Hall said. “None
of the social networks existed then, and the types of e-mail we
get have changed.”  Hotmail  was the only one of the top three Web-mail services
to lose unique visitors globally in the year through June 2012,
falling 4 percent, according to  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)  Yahoo Mail gained
2 percent and Gmail increased 17 percent.  Hotmail had 324.2 million unique visitors in June, compared
with 290.3 million for Yahoo Mail and 277.6 million for Gmail,
according to ComScore.  Microsoft said on an official Twitter account that 1
million people already have signed up for the preview since it
was released earlier today.  Upgrade Options  Users who want to upgrade can choose between keeping their
existing @hotmail.com e-mail address or switching to
@outlook.com. Switchers will still receive mail sent to the old
address, Microsoft said.  While Hotmail generates revenue through ads, the main value
lies in how often people use e-mail, Hall said. Google is using
Gmail to lure customers to its online word processing and
spreadsheet applications and away from Microsoft’s Office.  The Outlook Web-mail service can tell whether an e-mail is
from a personal contact, in which case it shows content from
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter Inc. from the sender. Users will be
able to see if a sender is online and enter into a Windows
Messenger or Facebook chat session with them. In the future,
Skype Internet calling capability also will be added, Hall said.  The new portal also will let users sort by types of e-mail
to categorize messages from their contacts, social media updates
or newsletters such as a  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  offer. They can set it to
only keep the latest Groupon offer or the last few, and clear
out the rest.  It’s also meant to have a clean-looking design that leaves
more space to display e-mails, compared with Gmail, Hall said.
Ads are also less obtrusive, he said, and don’t appear alongside
personal messages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  