-- Microsoft Says It Wants Patent Peace With Google’s Motorola
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-07-31T20:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/microsoft-says-it-s-open-to-patent-peace-with-google-s-motorola.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , embroiled in patent
litigation with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit, said it’s
open to reaching a comprehensive settlement of disputes that
have limited sales of Motorola Mobility products in the U.S. and
Germany.  “This particular litigation now stands at a crossroads,”
Microsoft General Counsel  Brad Smith  and  Horacio Gutierrez , head
of Microsoft’s intellectual property group, said in a joint  blog 
posting. “Google can take one of two paths: it can choose
either to engage in serious discussions to search for patent
peace or persevere in its diversionary tactics. We hope it will
choose the first course, and we stand ready to engage in good
faith if it does.”  Microsoft has won orders that banned U.S. imports of
Motorola Mobility phones that use a patented feature to
coordinate schedules between phones and personal computers. It’s
also won limits on sales of some Motorola Mobility products in
Germany based on other Microsoft patents.  Motorola Mobility, which  Mountain View , California-based
Google bought in May, said it too is willing to reach an
agreement. It said Microsoft is the one that’s causing
difficulties in ending the litigation.  “Microsoft wants to undercut Motorola’s industry-leading
patent portfolio, licensed by more than 50 other companies on
fair and reasonable terms, while seeking inflated royalties tied
to standards that Microsoft alone controls,” Becki Leonard, a
company spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “Motorola
is always open to negotiations that avoid wasteful and abusive
patent claims.”  Infringement Claims  Motorola Mobility has lodged its own patent-infringement
claims against Microsoft, including cases in the U.S. and
 Germany  targeting the Xbox video-gaming system and Windows
operating system.  Motorola Mobility has submitted offers to license its
patents, some of which relate to standards established by
industry groups for video compression and Wi-Fi technology. It
also has offered to take a license to the coordination feature,
known as ActiveSync, that it has previously licensed from
Microsoft before 2007.  Microsoft contends the offer doesn’t meet Motorola
Mobility’s obligation to license such patents on fair and
reasonable terms, and the licensing offer should be based on
“market rates.” It filed a breach of contract suit that’s
scheduled for trial in November in federal court in  Seattle ,
near Microsoft’s headquarters in Redmond, Washington.  Licensing Agreements  Smith and Gutierrez said any agreement must cover all
Microsoft patents, including ones the company claims Google’s
Android operating system infringed. The software maker has
reached licensing agreements with other companies that
manufacture devices that run on Android, including  Barnes &
Noble Inc. (BKS)  and Samsung Electronics Co.  The European Union is investigating claims filed by
Microsoft and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  that Motorola Mobility is misusing its
patents. The U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee held a July 11
 hearing  on whether there should be limits placed on the use of
standard-essential patents.  Microsoft and Apple contend that owners who help develop
standards shouldn’t be allowed to use essential patents to block
competitors. Google has told regulators it won’t seek any block
as long as companies are in licensing negotiations. It has
accused Microsoft and Apple of refusing to negotiate.  The U.S. International Trade Commission is considering
whether such patents should be the basis of an import ban, in a
case Motorola Mobility filed against Apple. A final decision in
that case is due Aug. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  