-- Hidden Chick-fil-A Billionaires Hatched as Value Soars
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C o f f e y
-- 2012-07-31T18:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/hidden-chick-fil-a-billionaires-hatched-as-value-soars.html
Chick-fil-A Inc., the Atlanta-based
fast-food chain feuding with gay-rights advocates over some
executives' stance on marriage, has served up two hidden 
billionaires.  The two sons of Samuel Truett Cathy, the chicken sandwich
empire’s founder -- Dan Cathy, 59, and Donald Cathy, who is
known as Bubba -- have joined the ranks of the world’s richest,
according to a report published today by PrivCo, a  New York- 
based research firm that specializes in private companies’
financial data.  The report values Chick-fil-A at $4.5 billion. Dan Cathy,
the company’s president, and Don Cathy, its executive vice
president, each own a third of the restaurant chain, according
to a person familiar with the company who asked not to be named
because it is closely held. Neither has appeared on an
international wealth list.  “The sons have been involved in running the company for
many years,” said Kenneth L. Bernhardt, a professor at  Georgia
State University ’s business school and a longtime consultant for
Chick-fil-A, in a phone interview today. “Dan has had just
about every job there is in the company, with a strong focus on
operations. Bubba focuses a very large percentage of his time on
the company’s philanthropic efforts.”  Gay-rights groups have urged a boycott of the chain and
mayors of cities including Boston and  San Francisco  have spoken
out against the company after Dan Cathy took a position against
same-sex marriage, the  Associated Press  reported July 19. He
said the company is “guilty as charged” for backing what he
called the biblical definition of the family unit, AP reported.  In a statement released today, Steve Robinson, Chick-fil-
A’s executive vice president of marketing, said the company will
“leave the policy debate over same-sex marriage to the
government and political arena.”  Closed Sundays  Chick-fil-A generated $492 million in earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization on revenue of $1.12
billion in 2011, PrivCo said. It added that the company’s 44
percent Ebitda margin was “virtually unheard of in the
restaurant industry.”  The chain has the biggest sales per unit in fast-food,
according to QSR Magazine. In 2011, the company generated gross
sales of $2.9 million per location, outpacing the average unit
sales of runner-up  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  by $400,000, the magazine
said in its August 2012 issue.  PrivCo said it valued Chick-fil-A at $4.5 billion using
peer multiples of  Oak Brook , Illinois-based McDonald’s, Dublin,
Ohio-based  Wendy’s Co. (WEN)  and closely held Wichita, Kansas-based
Wil-Ken Enterprises Inc., which operates Popeye’s Chicken and
Biscuits restaurants. The calculation factored in the company’s
3-year annual growth rate and Ebitda margins, the report said.  The chicken chain has a value of at least $4.3 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, based on the average
enterprise value-to-Ebitda and price-to-earnings multiples of
four publicly traded peers: McDonald’s, Wendy’s, San Diego-based
 Jack In the Box Inc. (JACK)  and Louisville, Kentucky-based  Yum! Brands
Inc. (YUM) , the owner of the KFC and Taco Bell brands.  “It is a very impressive business story,” said Sam Hamadeh, CEO of PrivCo, in a telephone interview. “Whatever
people think of the politics, when you look at how we quantify
the amount of money they are forgoing every year by being closed
on Sundays, you have to respect that.”  Truett Cathy keeps Chick-fil-A stores closed on  Sundays  as
“a testament to his faith in God,” according to the company’s
website. Jerry Johnston, a spokesman for the company, didn’t
return a phone call seeking comment.  Northern Expansion  As of Jan. 1, Chick-fil-A said it had a total of 1,615
Chick-fil-A outlets, the majority of which are franchised,
according to PrivCo. The company also operates full-service
restaurants under two other brand names, Truett’s Grill and
Dwarf House.  The company paid a $191 million dividend to the Cathy
family in 2011, PrivCo said.  Dan and Bubba Cathy's sister, Trudy Cathy White, is
director of WinShape Girls Camps, an operation of the family’s
non-profit WinShape Foundation Inc. that provides camp services
for children. She doesn’t appear to be involved in the
restaurant operations, according to the company’s website. Her
ownership stake of the chain hasn’t been disclosed.  From its southern U.S. base, Chick-fil-A has been expanding
north. In 2010, it opened its first Chicago-area locations and
has been planning to grow beyond its two franchised locations in
the  Boston  suburbs.  The Cathys haven’t given any indication of wanting to
loosen their grasp on the family business. In a 2001 interview
with Bloomberg News, S. Truett Cathy, now 91, said, “I would
never even think about going public. I think Dan supports me in
this. Most companies go public to raise money and grow faster.
We’re not interested in either.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Coffey in Boston at 
 bcoffey10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  