-- Highest Real Yield Lures BlackRock to Malaysia: Southeast Asia
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-08-01T05:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/highest-real-yield-lures-blackrock-to-malaysia-southeast-asia.html
Malaysian bonds had their longest
winning streak since September as BlackRock Inc. was attracted
by the highest yield in  Southeast Asia  after accounting for
inflation.  A 17-week rally in the nation’s debt helped bring the
average yield to 3.44 percent on July 26, the lowest level since
February 2009, an HSBC Holdings Plc index shows. Inflation
slowed for an eighth month in June to 1.6 percent, the least in
Asia, boosting the real yield to a July 2010 high.  Malaysia  has refrained from joining countries from China to
Brazil in cutting interest rates this year to counter slower
global growth, saying consumption and investment still support
its economy. The nation has the most scope to cut borrowing
costs in Southeast Asia, based on benchmark lending rates minus
consumer-price gains, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Malaysia’s so-called real rate is 1.4 percent, followed by 1.2
percent in  Indonesia  and 0.95 percent in the Philippines.  “The bonds have room to rally if  Bank Negara Malaysia 
decides to eventually ease interest rates,” Christian Carrillo,
a Singapore-based senior rates strategist at BlackRock, the
world’s largest money manager which oversees $3.56 trillion,
said in a July 27 interview. “We like Malaysian government bond
exposure in Asian debt portfolios as this market is likely a
beneficiary of foreign inflows.”  Slowing Growth  Southeast Asia’s third-largest economy expanded 4.7 percent
in the first three months of 2012 from a year earlier, the least
in three quarters, on weaker export growth, official data show.
Prime Minister Najib Razak said on July 17 that annual expansion
of 5 percent to 6 percent is essential to avoid “many
problems”.  Asia’s developing economies may need to ease monetary and
fiscal policy further as  Europe ’s crisis curbs demand for
overseas sales, the  Asian Development Bank  said on July 19.  The Philippines has lowered its benchmark  interest rate 
three times this year, while Indonesia and  Thailand  have cut
once each. Singapore uses the  exchange rate  rather than
borrowing costs to conduct monetary policy.  Foreign funds  increased local bond holdings by 9 percent in
the first half to 112 billion ringgit ($35.9 billion), according
to central bank data.  BlackRock prefers longer-term Malaysian bonds as the yield
curve is flattening on speculation global growth will remain
sluggish, according to Carrillo. The  spread  between two- and 20-
year notes was 74 basis points on July 26, the least since
January 2008.  Taylor Rule  “We prefer holding the 15-year to 20-year sector of the
curve as we are not convinced  Bank Negara  will cut rates
quickly,” Carrillo said. The central bank next reviews
borrowing costs on Sept. 6.  Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest lender, has been
recommending that clients hold more Malaysian  government bonds 
than the benchmark used to track performance, Sameer Goel, the
Singapore-based head of Asian rates and currency strategy at the
bank, said in a July 30 interview.  “While our call thus far is for no change in Malaysia’s
policy rate, the risk is that if developments in Europe get
worse, or if second-half growth in the U.S. disappoints, Bank
Negara will need to cut rates at some stage this year,” Goel
said.  Applying the so-called Taylor rule, a model developed by
Stanford University professor  John Taylor  to determine a
nation’s optimal interest rate based on inflation and output,
implies a Malaysian policy rate of 2.50 percent, 50 basis points
lower than the current level, Goel said.  ‘Curve to Flatten’  “We expect the curve to flatten,” he said. “The best
value is probably in the five- to 10-year part of the curve
because that’s where you tend to see buying from offshore
investors.”  Malaysia’s inflation may be understated because state
subsidies keep prices low, said Rajeev De Mello, who manages $7
billion of debt as the Singapore-based head of Asian fixed-
income assets at Schroder Investment Management Ltd. The
government has set aside 33.2 billion ringgit this year to help
keep gasoline, diesel, liquefied petroleum gas and sugar
affordable, according to a Finance Ministry report.  “We still want to hold the bonds but you’ll not make huge
 capital gains  in the short term,”  De Mello  said in an interview
yesterday. “Unlike other central banks, Bank Negara is slower
in cutting rates.”  Moody’s Investors Service assigns Malaysia an A3  credit
rating , its fourth-lowest investment-grade. That’s one level
higher than Thailand, three better than Indonesia and five rungs
above the Philippines.  ‘Relative Safety’  Credit-default swaps on five-year Malaysian government debt
fell 32 basis points this year to 114 yesterday, according to
data provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities should the issuer fail to
adhere to debt agreements.  Malaysia is viewed as relatively safe and stable compared
with many other  emerging markets , according to PineBridge
Investments Japan Co., part of a New York-based group that
manages about $67 billion of assets.  The ringgit has advanced 1.8 percent against the dollar
this year to 3.1178 as of 12:56 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , the
fourth-best performance among Asia’s 11 most-traded currencies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. India’s rupee was the
worst performer, dropping 4.3 percent.  “Compared with emerging-market currencies that have seen
quite aggressive sell-offs like India’s rupee, Malaysia offers
relative safety,” Kazuya Sugiura, the Tokyo-based president of
PineBridge Investments Japan, said in a July 27 interview. “And
so it’s chosen as a place to park money under this severe
environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 