-- IMF Urges Brazil to Guard Against Bubbles as Interest Rates Fall
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-07-31T15:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/imf-urges-brazil-to-guard-against-bubbles-as-interest-rates-fall.html
Brazil should boost supervision of
its banking system to avoid against credit bubbles that could
form as a result of fast credit growth and falling  interest
rates , the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Credit that has doubled as a percent of gross domestic
product in the last decade has helped spur economic growth but
is also showing signs of straining households, the IMF said in a
report today about the health of Brazil’s financial system. In
prime housing markets like  Sao Paulo  and  Rio de Janeiro , prices
have jumped as much as 30 percent annually in recent years, the
Washington-based lender said.  “There is a risk that the financial system may become a
victim of its own success,” Dimitri Demekas, head of the team
that conducted the assessment, said in a statement on the IMF’s
website.  Brazil has cut  interest rates  to record low this year and
loosened  reserve requirements  to spur car purchases even as
consumer default levels hover near a 30-month high and growth
remains weak. Today,  HSBC (HSBA)  became the latest bank to reduce its
2012 growth forecast, to 1.7 percent from 2.5 percent.  Consumer
confidence  in Brazil fell in July for the third month in a row,
according to the Getulio Vargas Foundation.  While regulation in Brazil overall remains strong, and
systemic risk low, a turbulent global economy and investors’
search for greater returns as borrowing costs fall may lead to
the buildup of asset price bubbles in the world’s largest
emerging market after  China , the IMF said.  Recommendations  Brazil should improve tools used to determine consumers’
credit worthiness and increase the availability of long-term
financing, the IMF said.  Other recommendations include strengthening the central
bank’s ability to provide emergency funding to banks in the
event of a crisis and tightening the criteria used to provide
assistance to banks by the nation’s private deposit insurer,
known as FGC.  Consumer default rates in June fell for the first time in
three months, to 7.8 percent from a 30-month high of 7.9 percent
in May, as banks heeded President  Dilma Rousseff ’s call to lower
borrowing costs while being more conservative about who they
lend to.  The IMF cited rising delinquency rates a sign of
“financial distress” among households, where average debt
servicing costs are equal to a “high” 23 percent of incomes.
Although debt levels seem sustainable as income levels rise and
employment remains strong, a cyclical downturn could put more
borrowers under stress, the IMF said.  While an increase in housing prices in major cities has
been “very large,” an eventual decline in values would be
mitigated by the low proportion of  mortgage loans  in banks’
credit portfolios, the IMF said.  Brazil’s gross domestic product expanded at a 0.8 percent
annualized rate during the first quarter, half the pace of the
U.S. The central bank expects 2012 growth to reach 2.5 percent,
while economists surveyed by the bank forecast 1.9 percent
growth this year.  Today’s Financial System Stability Assessment of Brazil’s
banks is part of an effort by the IMF started in the wake of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse to step up surveillance
of the world’s biggest financial systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  