-- In Fencing, the Queen Is Safe and Italian Women Rule
-- B y   R i c h a r d   C o h e n
-- 2012-07-31T21:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/in-fencing-the-queen-is-safe-and-italian-women-rule.html
Just before the start of the  London 
Games, NBC announced it would televise the women’s foil and
women’s epee, two of the 10 fencing events at this year’s
Olympics.  This might not seem like a breakthrough, but in the
rarefied and unheralded world of international swordplay, it was
quite something -- a reflection of the remarkable success of
American  fencers  at the previous games, when by the end of the
first week of competition, they had six medals, 10 percent of
the U.S. tally to that point. The women’s foil team and men’s
saber team won silver medals in Beijing, hence television’s new
interest.  One Beijing medalist,  Tim Morehouse , who has tirelessly
promoted the sport and who competed this week, wrote a memoir,
“American Fencer.” He asked my advice on what to include, and
I told him that the British sovereigns, dating from William the
Conqueror, had a special champion who would fight for them, if
they were ever challenged to a duel. Morehouse asked if I could
find out how he might issue a challenge.  Right before leaving for London, I contacted the  queen’s
champion , who turns out to be Lieutenant Colonel John Lindley
Marmion Dymoke. In coronations of new monarchs in days gone by,
the champion would ride into Westminster Hall on a white
charger, in full armor and with a plume of blue feathers in his
helmet, throw down his gauntlet and challenge to mortal combat
anyone who questioned the sovereign’s right to rule. There is no
record of any such challenge, and Colonel Dymoke has a wholly
ceremonial role.  Royal Duel  But what if, come the next coronation, Morehouse or another
brave swordsman should announce he or she was ready to duel?
Dymoke is a frail 86 -- the same age as his queen -- and has
never dueled in his life. The post is hereditary, and his son,
Francis, said he only once went to a fencing class at his high
school.  Morehouse will have to wait for that challenge. On Sunday
he and his teammate,  Daryl Homer , although not getting on the
podium this time, achieved the best individual results for
American saber fencers since Peter Westbrook won bronze in the
diminished games of 1984.  The real drama inside the  London fencing hall  came in the
women’s individual foil event the previous day. The favorite for
the gold was the 38-year-old Italian  Valentina Vezzali , the most
successful fencer, male or female, of all time. She is the first
fencer to win three individual gold medals at three consecutive
Olympics -- Sydney,  Athens  and Beijing -- and has won 13 gold
medals at the annual world championships, six in individual
competition. Coming into London, she was still ranked No. 1 in
the world.  Vezzali made it into the semifinals, where she found
herself up against a teammate, Arianna Errigo, who is 24 and
ranked No. 4 in the world. The younger fencer, who trains mainly
with male foilists and who fences like a man, has a vigorous,
highly aggressive style. Errigo fought at a deliberately fast
tempo, attacking relentlessly.  Vezzali, visibly rattled, narrowly lost. In the final,
Errigo had to settle for silver, losing on the last hit to
another Italian, Elisa Di Francisca, the world’s No. 3. But what
caused the crowd to stamp its feet was the fight for the bronze
medal: Vezzali against the world’s No. 2, the South Korean Nam
Hyun-Hee.  Coming into the final 13 seconds, Nam was up 12-8, needing
just three more hits for victory -- or only to be ahead when
time was called. The two fencers had fought it out in the
Olympic final in 2008, so Nam had reason to seek revenge.  Winning Riposte  To get four hits on a fencer of Nam’s caliber in only 13
seconds is unheard of, but Vezzali clawed her way back to 14-
all. Then the bell rang for time. At this point the referee
tosses a coin to decide which fencer will be proclaimed the
winner if, after a minute’s further combat, there has been no
winning hit.  Nam won the advantage. Then, to everyone’s astonishment,
Vezzali went back to the uncertain, slightly defensive strategy
she had shown against Errigo and at the beginning of her duel
against Nam. But the wily campaigner knew what she was doing.
Nam launched a long, lightning-fast attack -- which the Italian
parried, and made a winning riposte. She had won another Olympic
medal and the hearts of everyone in the audience.  NBC  must have been pleased. Yet as the audience made its
way home a question lingered: the previous day Vezzali had
carried the Italian flag at the 3 1/2 hour opening ceremony, a
significantly taxing honor. Had it cost her a fourth gold medal?
Or did she think she was invincible? Or a third possibility: for
all her fighter’s spirit, was she willing to risk her gold medal
for the honor of marching out in front of her team? She, like
Morehouse, has written an autobiography, “ A Volto Scoperto ” --
“With Uncovered Face.” Maybe, in a new edition, she will tell
us the answer.  ( Richard Cohen , a five-time British saber champion, was on
the British team in four Olympics from 1972 to 1984. He is the
author of “By the Sword: A History of Gladiators, Musketeers,
Samurai, Swashbucklers and Olympic Champions.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard Cohen at  racohen12@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 