-- In Mammogram Debate, Politics Trounces Science
-- B y   H a n d e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-07-31T22:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/in-mammogram-debate-politics-trounces-science.html
When, under intense political
pressure, the  National Cancer Institute  changed its position on
mammograms in 1997, recommending the screens every other year
for women in their 40s, the primacy of politics over science in
this matter was firmly established.  In the future, if a conclusion based on scientific data was
politically untenable, it would simply be overruled by political
leaders.  Thus, in the fall of 2009, when  mammography  for women
younger than 50 again became embroiled in controversy, the
federal government swiftly resolved the matter by taking the
“pro” side. I predict this will turn out to have been our last
heated national debate on mammography screening.  A very curious thing happened that October. In a moment of
unprecedented candor for an official of the normally message-
disciplined  American Cancer Society , Otis Brawley, its chief
medical officer, made a startling admission. In a  New York  Times
interview, he said, “I’m admitting that American medicine has
overpromised when it comes to screening. The advantages to
screening have been exaggerated.” He went on to say that even
though mammography can save lives, “if a woman says, ‘I don’t
want it,’ I would not think badly of her, but I’d like her to
get it.”  Basic Rationale  Brawley was responding to an article that had just been
published in the Journal of the  American Medical Association , in
which researchers argued that 20 years of widespread breast and
prostate cancer screening had failed to deliver the promised
health benefits. In both cases, screening had led to a huge
increase in the incidence of early-stage disease, with only a
very slight decrease in late-stage disease. This is significant
because the basic rationale for screening has always been that
identifying and treating more early-stage cancers will lower the
number of late-stage cancers. That this has not happened
suggests that screening detects many nonaggressive cancers that
would not have progressed if left undetected. The practical
result of large-scale screening, in other words, was
overdiagnosis and overtreatment.  Then, on Nov. 16, 2009, in a move that seemed to shock
everyone, the U.S. Preventive Services  Task Force , a group of
experts that periodically reviews the scientific justification
for clinical preventive services, rescinded its 2002
recommendation that women younger than 50 should have screening
mammography. Analyzing the data, the task force found that
screening mammography in women under 50 resulted in a 15 percent
reduction in  breast cancer  mortality. Although this was the same
reduction seen in women 50 to 59, it was significantly smaller
than the 32 percent reduction in women 60 to 69.  Furthermore, because breast cancer is less common in women
under 50, the task force found that in order to avert one death,
1,904 women in their 40s would have to be screened -- compared
with 1,339 women in their 50s and 377 women in their 60s.  The task force also considered the possible harms of
screening mammography, including  radiation exposure , pain,
anxiety and false positive or false negative results. Women
under 50, the panel found, were much more likely than older
women to receive a false positive mammogram -- an abnormal
report that requires additional imaging or biopsy but turns out
to indicate nothing serious. With this in mind, the task force
recommended against routine screening mammography in women 40 to
49, giving this activity a grade of C.  Hostile Public  The panel’s timing, dictated by the publishing schedule of
the medical journal in which the recommendation was announced,
could not have been worse. During the last half of 2009,
Congress was debating President  Barack Obama ’s health-care-
reform legislation, and, over the summer, members of Congress
had faced loud and hostile constituents in town-hall meetings.
The conversation had devolved into ominous warnings about “death
panels” and “pulling the plug on Granny.” So it was no surprise
that the new mammography guidelines were denounced as an ominous
instance of health-care rationing to come.  “This is how rationing begins. This is the little toe in
the edge of the water. This is when you start getting a
bureaucrat between you and your physician,” Representative
Marsha Blackburn, a Tennessee Republican,  said . Other critics of
the health-care-reform bill pointed to language in the Senate
version that required health plans to cover only those
preventive services that received an A or B grade from the task
force.  A news release from the American College of Radiology
characterized the new guidelines as “a step backward,” posing
“significant harm to women’s health.” Brawley of the American
Cancer Society, despite his public  mea culpa  a month earlier,
asked in an op-ed article, “How many mothers, sisters, aunts,
grandmothers, daughters and friends are we willing to lose to
breast cancer while the debate goes on about the limitations of
mammography?”  The community of advocates for breast cancer research and
treatment was divided. Nancy G. Brinker, founder of Susan G.
Komen for the Cure, predicted “mass confusion and justifiable
outrage.” But Fran Visco, president of the National Breast
Cancer Coalition, welcomed the change, arguing that there had
been too much emphasis on giving women an unambiguous message on
screening. “While messages need to be simple, they need to be
truthful,” she said.  Susan Love, the renowned breast surgeon and founder of the
Susan Love Research Foundation, strongly supported the task
force, both on her blog and in a round of news media interviews.
On ABC’s “Good Morning America,” she stated categorically that
mammography had “never been shown to work in women under 50” and
said, “We’ve sort of oversold the notion of early detection.”  Screaming Complaints  In response, Love’s blog was flooded with angry messages,
including one that screamed, “Have you lost your freakin’ mind?”
In her next post, Love found it necessary to declare, “I had
nothing to do with formulating these guidelines” and “I have not
been influenced or received any donations from any insurance
companies, nor have I been bought off by our federal
government.”  These few voices of support notwithstanding, public opinion
ran overwhelmingly against the guidelines. Seventy-six percent
of women 35 to 75 disagreed with them, a USA Today-Gallup poll
found in the days after their release. Eighty-four percent of
women 35 to 49 said they would ignore them. Most significantly,
76 percent of them believed that the new protocol had been
proposed as a way to save money. Thus, even though the task
force review of mammography guidelines had been completed during
the George W.  Bush administration , a line was drawn in the
public’s mind to health-care rationing proposed under
“Obamacare.”  The Obama administration, which had come to power stressing
a new respect for science, found itself in a quandary: accept
the scientific panel’s advice and watch health-care reform go
down in defeat, or reject the advice and risk comparisons to the
Bush administration in its controversial handling of stem cell
research. Within 48 hours of the task force’s announcement,
Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  disavowed
the guidelines. “Mammograms have always been an important life-
saving tool in the fight against breast cancer, and they still
are today,” she said. “Keep doing what you have been doing for
years.”  The controversy died quickly. In July 2010, after the
Affordable Care Act had been passed, Health and Human Services
announced that insurers would be required to cover mammography
in accordance with the 2002 guidelines, which recommended
routine screening beginning at age 40. In October 2010, in his
annual Breast Cancer Awareness Month proclamation, Obama
reiterated this message: In women 40 and older, he said, regular
mammograms and clinical breast exams every year or two are “the
most effective way to find breast cancer early, when it may be
easier to treat.”  It is unlikely we will ever have another major national
controversy on screening mammography in women younger than 50.
After all, it has already been studied in excruciating detail.
In any case, the debate has always been about access. Political
leaders have now decided that American women have a right to
screening mammography starting at age 40, so its status is
secure -- at least until a replacement technology comes along.  (Handel Reynolds is a breast radiologist at Piedmont
Hospital in Atlanta. This is the first of three excerpts from
his new book, “ The Big Squeeze: A Social and Political History
of the Controversial Mammogram ,” which will be published on Aug.
7 by Cornell University Press. The opinions expressed are his
own. Read  Part 2  and  Part 3 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on demanding a compromise to
 stop the fiscal cliff  and on why  Thailand needs political
stability ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Mitt Romney ’s  stumbles over his
wealth ; Clive Crook on why  Germany  should let the ECB do
 “whatever it takes” ;  Amity Shlaes  on why the Fed should  stop
sailing against the wind ; Mikhail Chernov on the  benefits of
Libor rigging ; Richard Cohen on the drama of the  Olympic fencing
duels .  To contact the writer of this article:
Handel Reynolds at  bigsqueezebook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 