-- India Holds Key Rate, Skirting Global Easing on Inflation
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-07-31T10:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/india-holds-key-rate-skirting-global-easing-to-damp-inflation.html
India refrained from joining peers
in lowering  interest rates , focusing instead on curbing
inflation as a power-grid shutdown exposed infrastructure
deficiencies that keep prices elevated and limit policy options.  The  Reserve Bank of India  kept the  repurchase rate  at 8
percent while cutting the amount of deposits banks must hold in
 government bonds , it said in Mumbai today. Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said after the decision the benchmark gauge of prices,
which climbed 7.25 percent in June, has stayed “sticky.”  Hours after the release, north India’s electricity network
shut down for the second time this week, illustrating the added
costs businesses face operating in a nation with the highest
inflation rate among BRIC members. Along with a falling currency
and poor monsoon rains, the combination leaves the RBI little
scope to address India’s weakest growth in nine years.  “Challenges emerging from inadequate infrastructure as
reflected in power failures, an investment slowdown and
substantial drop in growth potential mean inflation lingering on
for a long time,” said Jahangir Aziz, an economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. based in  Washington  who worked at the  International
Monetary Fund . The government needs to deliver on reforms and
fiscal consolidation to create space for rate cuts, he said.  The rupee gained 0.1 percent to 55.53 per dollar as of 3:56
p.m. in Mumbai. It has tumbled about 20 percent against the
dollar in the past year due to India’s trade deficit and a debt
crisis in  Europe  that sapped demand for emerging-market assets.  SLR Cut  The BSE India Sensitive Index, down about 5 percent in the
past year, rose 0.5 percent. The yield on the 8.15 percent bond
due June 2022 rose to 8.24 percent from 8.15 percent yesterday.  Today’s decision was predicted by 31 of 34 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Three expected a cut to 7.75 percent.
Subbarao reduced the statutory liquidity ratio to 23 percent
from 24 percent, effective Aug. 11, the first cut since 2010.  He raised his  inflation  forecast to 7 percent as a drop in
the rupee, infrastructure bottlenecks and higher food costs
stoke price pressures, a trend that may be exacerbated by the
impact of a scanty monsoon on crops. The risks limited  India ’s
scope to join Asian neighbors such as  China  and  South Korea  in
cutting rates this month.  ’Primary Focus’  “The  primary focus  of monetary policy remains inflation
control in order to secure a sustainable growth path over the
medium term,” the RBI said today. “Lowering policy rates will
only aggravate inflationary impulses without necessarily
stimulating growth. As the multiple constraints to growth are
addressed, the Reserve Bank will stand ready to act
appropriately.”  The central bank forecast a 6.5 percent economic  expansion 
in the 12 months through March 2013, down from an earlier
prediction of 7.3 percent. It estimated inflation of 7 percent
by the end of the period, compared with a previous projection of
6.5 percent.  The deficient and uneven monsoon, a slowdown in global
trade and impending fiscal retrenchment in the U.S. are among
the threats to India’s expansion, the monetary authority said.
The weak rupee, energy prices and the impact of the below-
average rains on crops pose inflationary risks, it said.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is grappling with a  budget
deficit  and discord in the ruling coalition that has set back
efforts to turn around a slowdown in investment. Monsoon rains,
key for India’s more than 235 million farmers, are 20 percent
below normal, threatening slower growth and higher food prices.  Growth Slowdown  Singh, who took on the finance portfolio in June, has vowed
to revive investor confidence after Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings warned they may strip  Asia ’s third-largest economy of
its investment-grade  credit rating .  Subbarao said at a press briefing in Mumbai after the
decision today that he sees scope for a rate cut, adding he
can’t say when it might happen and that a reduction will depend
on inflation and other risks. He was responding to a question on
whether he may lower borrowing costs again this year.  Gross domestic product  rose 5.3 percent in the first
quarter, the least since 2003. Gaps in infrastructure from roads
to  power plants  are holding back the economy, underscored by
India’s worst power-grid failure in a decade yesterday.  The country’s northern and eastern regions, including the
capital  New Delhi , had a second grid collapse today, affecting a
population about that of  North America . India has missed every
annual target to add electricity-production capacity since 1951.  Benchmark wholesale-price  inflation  was 7.25 percent last
month, and consumer prices rose 10.02 percent, the fastest among
the BRIC nations of  Brazil ,  Russia , India and China. Wholesale-
price gains have eased from more than 9 percent in most of 2011.  Above Comfort  The  Reserve Bank  said that inflation remains “well above”
its comfort zone. India’s “large twin deficits” in the current
account and the budget pose “significant risks to macroeconomic
stability,” it also said.  Subbarao lowered the repurchase rate by 0.5 percentage
point in April, the first reduction since 2009. The central bank
has said that move “frontloaded” a cut on the assumption the
government will restrain the budget deficit. Today, the Reserve
Bank said the government’s target of reducing subsidies requires
“immediate action” on fuel and fertilizer prices.  The central bank has also reduced the amount of deposits
lenders must set aside as reserves twice this year to ease a
cash squeeze. Subbarao raised the repurchase rate by a record
3.75 percentage points from March 2010 to October last year.  Some companies are feeling the impact of higher borrowing
costs. Sales at Bajaj Auto Ltd., India’s second-largest
motorcycle maker, slid 5.9 percent in June.  ‘Sub-par’ Growth  “Growth in India is likely to remain sub-par and inflation
uncomfortably high,” said  Arun Singh , Mumbai-based senior
economist at Dun & Bradstreet Information Services India Pvt.
“What you urgently need are measures on the policy front,
including reforms and reducing the budget deficit.”  India has foregone foreign investment in industries from
retail to pensions and insurance in recent months as a factious
ruling coalition obstructs Singh’s efforts to open up the
economy and ease bottlenecks that are pushing up prices.  The government is also struggling to narrow its budget gap
amid pressure to keep subsidies for fertilizer and diesel to
help the 824 million Indians living on under $2 a day.  The administration projects record borrowing of 5.69
trillion rupees ($102 billion) in 2012-2013 to fund its targeted
fiscal shortfall of 5.1 percent of GDP, down from 5.8 percent
last year. The government is at risk of missing the goal, the
Reserve Bank said in a quarterly review of the economy
yesterday.  India’s potential rate of growth may have fallen to 7.5
percent a year from 8.5 percent before the onset of the global
financial crisis, Subbarao said July 17.  Economies from China to the U.S. have slowed as the euro
area pursues austerity to escape its debt crisis.  “India’s decision to keep rates on hold shows inflation
remains a priority over growth,” said Tirthankar Patnaik, a
Mumbai-based strategist at Religare Capital Markets Ltd. “It
also makes sense for the central bank to keep its powder dry in
case the euro-area debt crisis deepens further.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  