-- India’s Exim Said to Sell Dollar Debt; Asia Bond Risk Falls
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-31T11:29:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/india-s-exim-bank-said-to-plan-dollar-debt-asia-bond-risk-falls.html
Export-Import Bank of  India  raised
$500 million, selling its first U.S. dollar-denominated bonds in
more than a year, as Korea Finance Corp. and Australia & New 
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. market debt sales in the currency.  Exim Bank sold five-year securities to yield 355 basis
points more than Treasuries, a person familiar with the matter
said, asking not to be named because the matter is private.
Korea Finance is seeking to pay a 190 basis-point spread on
similar-maturity notes, while Melbourne-based ANZ is marketing
10-year subordinated debt at a 315 basis-point premium, people
with knowledge of each sale said.  Perceptions of Asian corporate creditworthiness improved
today on speculation the world’s biggest central banks will act
to boost global growth, bolstering the outlook for the region’s
exporters. Exim Bank’s offering follows  State Bank of India (SBIN) ’s
$1.25 billion debt sale last week, which revived the dollar bond
market for the nation’s borrowers after a five-month hiatus.  “ State Bank  of India’s bond has opened a window for other
Indian banks,” William Mak, a credit analyst at Nomura Holdings
Inc., said by phone from Hong Kong today. “The broader market
has rallied and spreads have tightened so there’s now an
opportunity. Further issuance is possible later this week.”  CDS Falls  The cost of insuring Asian corporate and sovereign debt
from non-payment declined, with the  Markit iTraxx Asia  index of
40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  dropping 2 basis
points to 157.5 basis points as of 1 p.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show.  David Rasquinha, a Mumbai-based  executive director  at
India’s Exim Bank, was traveling and wasn’t immediately
available to comment on the sale. Kim Heung Sang, the head of
the global funding team at Korea Finance’s global finance
department, couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  State Bank of India priced its five-year securities to
yield 4.125 percent, or 375 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The average yield that investors demand to hold dollar
notes sold by Indian companies instead of Treasuries fell 31
basis points this month to 486, according to an index compiled
by HSBC Holdings Plc.  Mumbai-based Exim Bank last sold dollar bonds in March
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The floating-rate
notes due in March 2016 were priced to yield 215 basis points
more than the London interbank offered rate, the data show.  European Crisis  In the U.S., the  Federal Open Market Committee  will
announce a policy decision tomorrow, and the  European Central
Bank  will convene the following day. U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  and German Finance Minister  Wolfgang
Schaeuble  backed a commitment by European leaders to do
everything needed to defend the euro area while failing to
mention its weakest link,  Greece .  Europe’s fiscal crisis is damping growth in Asian exporting
nations, with data today showing Taiwan’s economy unexpectedly
shrank in the second quarter from a year earlier. South Korean
output fell and a Japanese manufacturing gauge reached the
lowest level since the wake of the 2011 earthquake, according to
separate data released today.  Shui On Land  Shui On Land Ltd. (272)  sold $400 million of 9.75 percent bonds
due in February 2015 yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg data
show. The Chinese property developer’s offering received about
$2.5 billion of bids from more than 150 investors, according to
a person familiar with the deal.  Investors in Asia bought 87 percent of the securities with
European buyers accounting for the rest, the person said.
Private banks took the biggest share of Shui On Land’s notes,
buying 60 percent of the bonds, the person said. Fund managers
took 27 percent.  The  Markit iTraxx Australia  index ended the day little
changed at 167, according to Markit Group Ltd. The Markit iTraxx
Japan index fell 0.5 of a basis point to 181.5 basis points as
of 5:26 p.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  