-- India Blacks Out From New Delhi to Kolkata as Grid Fails Again
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-07-31T10:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/india-blacks-out-from-new-delhi-to-kolkata-as-grid-fails-again.html
India’s electricity grid collapsed
for the second time in as many days, cutting off more than half
the country’s 1.2 billion population in the nation’s worst power
crisis on record.  Commuter trains in the capital stopped running, forcing the
operator, Delhi Metro Rail Corp., to evacuate passengers,
spokesman Anuj Dayal said.  NTPC Ltd. (NTPC) , the biggest generator,
shut down 36 percent of its capacity as a precaution, Chairman
Arup Roy Choudhury said by telephone. More than 100 inter-city
trains were stranded, Northern Railway spokesman Neeraj Sharma
said, as the blackout engulfed states in the north and east.  The failures have exposed the urgency behind Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s effort to attract $400 billion in investment
and ease an electricity deficit that is holding back economic
growth in  Asia ’s third-biggest economy. The blackout today
spread to at least five more states -- Bihar, Jharkhand, West
Bengal, Orissa and Sikkim. Businesses and households in seven
provinces yesterday turned to generators for at least 15 hours.
The 12 states are home to about 640 million people.  “It points to yet another glaring hole in India’s
infrastructure,” said Rohit Singh, an analyst with IDBI Capital
Market Services. “India clearly has a serious problem on its
hands and hasn’t done enough to ensure these situations remain a
one-off. An exponential increase in investment is required to
upgrade the grid.”  Transmission Network  State-owned  Power Grid Corp. of India Ltd. , which operates
the world’s largest transmission networks, manages  power lines 
including in the northern and eastern regions. NTPC and
billionaire Anil Ambani-controlled  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)  operate
power stations in north India that feed electricity into the
national grid. The northern and eastern grids together account
for about 40 percent of India’s total electricity generating
capacity, according to the Central Electricity Authority.  The grids in the east, north, west and the northeast are
interconnected, making them vulnerable, said Jayant Deo,
managing director of the Indian Energy Exchange Ltd. The outage
has also spread to seven additional states in the northeast,
NDTV television channel reported.  “Without a definitive plan by the government to gradually
bring the grids back online, this problem could absolutely get
worse,” Deo said.  Singh is seeking to secure $400 billion of investment in
the power industry in the next five years as he targets an
additional 76,000 megawatts in generation by 2017.  India  has
missed every annual target to add electricity production
capacity since 1951.  Peak Demand  Power cuts are common across swathes of India as the
country battles an average 9 percent shortfall in meeting peak
power demand that the government says shaves about 1.2
percentage points off annual economic growth.  India’s northern region lost power at around 1:15 p.m.
local time today, said Gopal Saxena, CEO of BSES Rajdhani Power
Ltd., a distributor for Delhi. NTPC’s 62 generating units with a
capacity of 14,000 megawatts stopped producing power as a
precaution, its chairman, Choudhury, said by telephone.  Electricity supply to the eastern Indian city of Kolkata
was hit, CNN-IBN news channel reported.  “It’s highly embarrassing in that it again shows we can’t
provide basic services to our citizens,” said Mohan Guruswamy,
chairman of the Centre for Policy Alternatives in  New Delhi  and
a former finance ministry adviser. “It tells you a lot about
the quality of management and their focus on maintenance.”  Bottlenecks, Inflation  Improving infrastructure, which the  World Economic Forum 
says is a major obstacle to doing business in India, is among
the toughest challenges facing Singh as he bids to revive
expansion in Asia’s third-largest economy that slid to a nine-
year low of 5.3 percent in the first quarter.  Tussles over policy making with allies in the ruling
coalition, corruption allegations and defeats in regional
elections have weakened Singh’s government since late 2010.  The  Reserve Bank of India , which has blamed infrastructure
bottlenecks among others for contributing to the nation’s price
pressures, today refrained from cutting  interest rates  even as
growth in the $1.8 trillion economy cooled to a nine-year low in
the first quarter.  Indian consumer-price inflation was 10.02 percent in June,
the fastest among the Group of 20 major economies, while the
 benchmark  wholesale-price measure is more than 7 percent.  The last time the northern grid collapsed was in 2001,
leaving homes and businesses without electricity for 12 hours.
The Confederation of Indian Industry, the country’s largest
association of companies, estimated that blackout cost companies
$107.5 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  