-- Chidambaram Regains India Finance Job as Singh Seeks Revival
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-08-01T06:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/india-s-singh-appoints-chidambaram-as-finance-minister.html
Palaniappan Chidambaram was named
India’s finance minister for the third time as Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  tries to revive an economy expanding at the
weakest pace in almost a decade.  The 66-year-old stalwart of the ruling Congress party moves
from the Home Ministry, according to a statement released by the
president’s office in  New Delhi  yesterday. Singh retained the
finance portfolio for an interim period after the resignation in
June of  Pranab Mukherjee , who became president on July 25.  Chidambaram faces the task of salvaging Singh’s development
agenda as elevated inflation saps growth and the nation’s worst
power crisis on record shows how gaps in infrastructure are
hurting the economy. A slumping rupee, the threat of a credit-
rating downgrade to junk status and a weak monsoon are immediate
challenges for a politician who oversaw a record expansion as
finance minister from 2004 to 2008.  “He definitely has the experience of handling the  finance
ministry  earlier and was market-savvy,” said Rupa Rege Nitsure,
an economist at state-owned  Bank of Baroda (BOB)  in Mumbai. “He has
proved his mettle before, though the challenges this time are
huge: the fiscal deficit, the slowdown and hastening reforms.”  A lawyer and Harvard Business School graduate from India’s
southern state of  Tamil Nadu , Chidambaram is one of the most
prominent members of the Congress party. Growth averaged 8.9
percent a year when he last led the Finance Ministry, compared
with 5.3 percent in the first quarter.  Limited Choices  Chidambaram, married with one son, was moved to the home
ministry in November 2008 to spearhead efforts to strengthen
security after the terrorist attacks in Mumbai left 166 people
dead. He also served as junior commerce minister in the 1980s in
a  political career  spanning four decades.  “The prime minister has to have confidence in the person
who handles the finance portfolio and Chidambaram is possibly
the only person to enjoy that,” said Satish Misra, an analyst
at the New Delhi-based Observer Research Foundation. “You have
to pick people within the available human resources and the
choices are limited.”  To revive Singh’s economic agenda, the new finance minister
will have to contend with the political opposition that’s
hampered proposals to allow foreign retailers to open
supermarkets and lift overseas investment caps on the pensions
and insurance industries.  Phone Licenses  In February this year, an Indian court dismissed a petition
asking that Chidambaram be probed for corruption in a 2008 sale
of mobile-phone licenses. The permits were scrapped after
India’s biggest graft investigation, a scandal that weakened
Singh’s government and stalled its legislative agenda.  “Chidambaram will have to face the opposition parties and
their campaign, which might get shriller with his move to the
Finance Ministry, but it is unlikely to affect his work as it is
part of the political reality,” Misra said.  India’s growth slowdown, consumer-price inflation exceeding
10 percent and record borrowing to plug a budget gap have hurt
investor confidence, prompting  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard &
Poor’s  to warn India’s investment-grade credit rating is in
jeopardy. S&P lowered the country’s credit outlook to negative
from stable in April.  The rupee has tumbled 21 percent against the dollar in the
past year, while the BSE India Sensitive Index is down more than
5 percent. The currency’s slide has fanned import costs, adding
to price pressures that limit the  Reserve Bank of India ’s scope
to cut  interest rates  to support Asia’s third-largest economy.  Stocks Fall  Indian stocks dropped for the first time in four days today
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reduced the country’s growth
forecast. The benchmark  stock index  fell 0.2 percent as of 11:52
a.m. in Mumbai.  “It is a very messy combination of things that’s going on
in the economy,” said  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , director of
Asian economics at Credit Suisse Group AG in Singapore.
Chidambaram must raise fuel prices to pare subsidies and contain
the fiscal gap, he said.  The budget shortfall reached 5.8 percent of gross domestic
product in the year ended March. While Mukherjee outlined a goal
of narrowing it to 5.1 percent in 2012-2013 by capping a subsidy
program ranging from diesel to fertilizers, the government still
projects borrowing of 5.69 trillion rupees ($102 billion).  ‘Crowding Out’  The Reserve Bank left its  repurchase rate  unchanged at 8
percent for a second meeting yesterday, saying inflation is well
above its comfort zone.  Government spending  is “crowding out
public investment at a time when reviving investment, both
public and private, is a critical imperative,” it said in June.  India’s electricity grid collapsed for the second time in
as many days yesterday, cutting off power to more than half the
country’s 1.2 billion population and underlining the need for
greater spending on roads, ports and  power plants .  The  Reserve Bank  lowered its benchmark rate in April for
the first time since 2009 from 8.5 percent. The weaker rupee,
energy costs, the impact of deficient rain on crops and the
fiscal deficit may limit  room  for further cuts.  Chidambaram also inherits a proposed clampdown on  tax
avoidance  and a move to allow the retrospective taxation of
deals where an Indian business is purchased by an overseas
company. The measures, unveiled by Mukherjee in the annual
budget in March, have stoked concern the climate for foreign
investors is deteriorating.  ‘Big Mistake’  Power Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde replaces Chidambaram in
the Home Ministry, and Veerappa Moily, minister of corporate
affairs, takes on the power portfolio, according to a separate
government statement.  The timing of the changes “is a big mistake since the
message it sends out is that you are not serious about the power
crisis,” said  Sanjay Kumar , a New Delhi-based analyst at the
Centre for the Study of Developing Societies. “Even if the
decision was taken a few days back, it could have been
delayed.”  During Chidambaram’s second stint as finance minister, the
 fiscal deficit  narrowed to 2.5 percent of GDP in the year ended
March 2008, the least since at least 1971, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “He is a proven hand in running the ministry, so that is
an advantage,” said Mumbai-based Prasanna Ananthasubramanian,
chief economist at ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Ltd.
“His management on taxation is far superior than any of the
recent finance ministers. Those uncertainties on the tax side he
will be able to better manage.”  Singh’s Pledge  Singh has pledged to revitalize Indian economic expansion,
with Congress’ record set to be tested at a general election due
in 2014. The prime minister has formed a panel to review the
planned tax clampdown and outlined projects including new ports.  Singh has said he is confident the $1.8 trillion economy
can grow as much as 9 percent a year again. The majority of
Indians still live on less than $2 per day, according to the
 World Bank .  Achieving faster expansion may depend on meeting a target
of limiting subsidies to less than 2 percent of GDP this fiscal
year to narrow the  budget deficit , as well as tackling a  trade
shortfall  that swelled to a record $184.9 billion in 2011-2012.  The Reserve Bank of India has said the government is at
risk of missing the deficit target unless it raises fertilizer
and fuel prices to curb subsidies.  “The government of the day doesn’t have the room to carry
out reforms,” said  Dharmakirti Joshi , chief economist in Mumbai
at Crisil Ltd., the local unit of Standard & Poor’s. “Its
problems are increasing very fast.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  