-- Singh Answers Sought as Worst Power Crisis May Hurt Growth
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2012-08-01T07:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/india-power-grid-collapses-for-second-time-in-two-days.html
Keeping the lights on has emerged as
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s most immediate challenge.  The economy growing at its slowest pace in nearly a decade,
the prospect of a drought, and having his government battered by
18 months of policy reversals and corruption allegations were
bad enough. Two power-grid collapses in 36 hours have left 600
million people sweating through a failing monsoon, heaping more
pressure on a prime minister whose legacy as an economic manager
is coming under increasing scrutiny.  “This looks even worse than it would normally because
there’s an impression that  India’s economy  is falling apart
right now,” said Surjit Singh Bhalla, chairman of New Delhi-
based Oxus Fund Management, of this week’s power network
failures. “In any normal time, people may say that accidents
happen. Right now everyone is looking at Singh to see what, if
anything, he is going to do to fix the problem.”  India  is in the throes of its worst ever power crisis after
two days of blackouts that highlighted poor infrastructure and
lack of investment in its generating and transmission sectors.
Half of the country’s 1.2 billion people were left without any
electricity for more than five hours yesterday, halting
transport networks and forcing businesses and  emergency services 
to rely on generators.  Investment Plan  Power had been fully restored in New Delhi and across
India’s northeastern grid as of 5:30 a.m. local time today,
while 95 percent the northern and eastern grids were operating,
according to an e-mailed statement from  Power Grid Corp. (PWGR)  of
India Ltd.  India has missed every annual target to add electricity
production capacity since 1951, resulting in a peak demand
deficit of nearly 10 percent. Singh is seeking to secure $400
billion of investment in the power industry in the next five
years as he targets an additional 76,000 megawatts in generation
by 2017.  The disruptions weren’t sufficient to stop a rally in
stocks, as the BSE India Sensitive Index, or  Sensex (SENSEX) , advanced
for a third session yesterday. It was little changed today as of
12:38 p.m. in Mumbai. The rupee, which has lost 20 percent in
the last year, strengthened, snapping two days of declines to
climb 0.3 percent to 55.50 per dollar.  Promotion  As engineers yesterday worked to reconnect nearly two dozen
states to the national grid, the man who began the day as power
minister, Sushil Kumar Shinde, ended it in charge of the home
ministry, the cabinet’s third-most prominent position, after a
reshuffle of Singh’s team of ministers.  Singh tacked the power portfolio on to the duties of
Minister for Corporate Affairs Veerappa Moily, a move a former
regulator said smacked of an inadequate government response to
the crisis.  “Heads should be rolling, but instead the power minister
is going to be made home minister,” said S.L. Rao, former
Chairman of the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission, who
was in charge of overseeing the industry from 1998 to 2001.  The government, which has said the outages may have been
triggered by states exceeding the amount of power they are
allowed to draw from the national grid, announced that it has
tasked a committee with investigating events leading up to the
shutdown.  Trains Halted  India’s northern electricity grid collapsed for a second
time at about 1:15 p.m. yesterday, knocking out the networks in
the country’s east and northeast. These states together account
for about 40 percent of India’s total electricity generating
capacity, according to the Central Electricity Authority.  Commuter trains in the capital stopped running yesterday,
forcing the operator, Delhi Metro Rail Corp., to evacuate
passengers.  NTPC Ltd. (NTPC) , the biggest generator, shut down 36
percent of its capacity as a precaution, Chairman Arup Roy Choudhury said by telephone. More than 100 inter-city trains
were stranded, Northern Railway spokesman Neeraj Sharma said, as
the blackout engulfed states in the north and east.  Among those affected by the outage was 62-year-old Pramitha
Devi, who was bidding to take the metro toward Ram Manohar Lohia
hospital in New Delhi after her home dialysis machine was
damaged by electricity fluctuations. A doctor who identified
himself as R.C. Bhargava said the hospital’s generators had not
been fully refueled since the July 30 grid collapse, leaving
them with about two hours of electricity for the intensive care
unit. “We have to make plans to shift critical patients to
other hospitals,” said Bhargava.  ‘Highly Embarrassing’  Beset by political challenges, the blackouts are the latest
problem to torment Singh’s government. Tussles over policy
making with allies in the ruling coalition, corruption
allegations and defeats in regional elections have weakened the
administration since late 2010.  “It’s highly embarrassing in that it again shows we can’t
provide basic services to our citizens,” said Mohan Guruswamy,
chairman of the Centre for Policy Alternatives in  New Delhi  and
a former finance ministry adviser. “It tells you a lot about
the quality of management and their focus on maintenance.”  Proposals to allow foreign retailers to open supermarkets
and lift overseas investment caps on the pensions and insurance
sectors are among the policy initiatives of Singh’s second term
to be rejected by opposition groups and coalition allies. By
contrast, Singh as finance minister 20 years ago attacked
regulatory burdens that held back private companies.  Power cuts are common across swathes of India as the
country battles an average 9 percent shortfall in meeting peak
power demand that the government says shaves about 1.2
percentage points off annual economic growth.  RBI on Hold  Improving infrastructure, which the  World Economic Forum 
says is a major obstacle to doing business in India, is among
the toughest challenges facing Singh as he bids to revive
expansion in  Asia ’s third-largest economy that slid to a nine-
year low of 5.3 percent in the first quarter.  The  Reserve Bank of India , which has blamed infrastructure
bottlenecks among others for contributing to the nation’s price
pressures, yesterday refrained from cutting  interest rates .  Indian consumer-price inflation was 10.02 percent in June,
the fastest among the Group of 20 major economies, while the
 benchmark  wholesale-price measure is more than 7 percent.  The last time the northern grid collapsed was in 2001,
leaving homes and businesses without electricity for 12 hours.
The Confederation of Indian Industry, the country’s largest
association of companies, estimated that blackout cost companies
$107.5 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  