-- Infineon to Cut Spending as Slowing Demand Hurts Profit
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-07-31T11:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/infineon-says-sales-profitability-may-keep-falling.html
Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest semiconductor maker, will reduce spending to cope
with slowing chip demand that’s pulling down its sales and
profit. The shares rose the most in almost a year.  The company will cut investment in the year starting Oct. 1
to about 500 million euros ($615 million), Reinhard Ploss,
Infineon’s designated chief executive officer, said today on a
conference call. Neubiberg, Germany-based Infineon is investing
about 900 million euros this fiscal year. The company said in a
statement it also suspended staff increases as of this month.  Infineon has more than enough capacity to meet current
demand, said Niels de Zwart, an analyst at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam. That gives some leeway for Ploss, who is set to take
over from  Peter Bauer  on Oct. 1, to try to improve margins even
as customers scale back orders amid a slowing global economy.  “It’s positive that they’re adapting their model to the
current growth environment,” said De Zwart, who  recommends 
investors buy the stock. “They have enough capacity to cater to
their needs in 2013 and still have enough flexibility to raise
investments if demand turns out to be stronger than expected.”  Infineon  advanced  as much as 8.7 percent to 6.04 euros, the
biggest intraday gain since Aug. 11. The shares gained 7.9
percent at 1:16 p.m. Frankfurt time. They had lost 20 percent in
the past year through yesterday.  ‘Down Slightly’  The spending cuts will mean trimming capacity expansion
rather than delaying development of technologies such as 300-
millimeter wafers, Ploss said. Investments in development and
production allow Infineon to bring out new types of  chips  that
replace mechanical parts in cars, manage power in home
appliances and  wind turbines , and secure passports and
contactless payment cards.  The investment reduction will be partly offset by expected
larger depreciation and amortization on assets, Infineon said.  Sales this quarter will be “flat to down slightly” from
the period ended June 30, the company said. Operating profit in
the third quarter fell to 126 million euros, Infineon said.
Revenue fell 5 percent from the year-earlier period to 990
million euros. The company may consider additional cost-
reduction measures if the economy worsens, Bauer said on the
conference call.  For the fiscal year through September, the operating margin
will narrow to between 13 percent and 14 percent from 20 percent
last year, while sales will drop about 3 percent from last
year’s 4 billion euros, Infineon said.  ‘Uncertain Time’  Fourth-quarter operating profit will be “around 12
percent” of sales, compared with 12.7 percent in the third
quarter, Infineon said. Last month, Infineon said sales and
operating margin in the fourth quarter would be “broadly flat”
compared with the previous period. Analysts  project  fourth-
quarter sales of 963.7 million euros, according to the average
of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Infineon is sailing OK through this uncertain time and
will continue to do so next quarter,” Bauer said. “We’re in a
good position.”  Larger European  competitor  STMicroelectronics last week
predicted quarterly revenue growth that trailed analysts’
estimates, citing a weakening demand in recent weeks.  Intel
Corp. (INTC) , the world’s biggest chipmaker, this month scaled back its
annual sales forecast as personal-computer demand fails to
rebound among consumers in the U.S. and Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  