-- ING Said to Plan Breakup of Asian Insurance Unit in Sale
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-07-31T17:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/ing-said-to-plan-breakup-of-asian-insurance-unit-in-sale.html
ING Groep NV (INGA)  may break up its Asian
life insurance operations and is holding talks with buyers
interested in the business in different countries, two people
with knowledge of the process said.  The company is currently in discussions with  Manulife
Financial Corp. (MFC)  and  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  for the Southeast Asian
operations, and with both firms as well as  KB Financial Group
Inc. (105560)  for those in South Korea, the people said, asking not to be
identified because the talks are private. Two private equity
funds have bid for the Japanese operations, they said.  ING, which had preferred to divest the business in a single
sale, may generate higher proceeds by breaking up the unit, one
person said. The company is seeking to sell the assets for 6
billion euros ($7.4 billion), with  Southeast Asia  accounting for
about half of the proceeds, the person said. ING is aiming to
sign sale agreements by the end of August, the person said.  Officials at ING, Manulife, AIA, and KB Financial declined
to comment on the talks.  “Proceeds of 6 billion euros excluding the asset
management business would be a positive, and ahead of market
expectations,” said Hans Pluijgers, an Amsterdam-based analyst
at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux SA. “Companies interested in
buying parts overlapping their own business would be able to get
more synergies, and that improves ING’s position to negotiate.”  Asset Management Unit  Pluijgers estimated ING could raise 6.5 billion euros to 7
billion euros from the divestments including the investment
management unit and ING’s stake in an insurance joint venture in
China. He expects the asset management unit may fetch around 500
million euros.  ING is also in talks with a consortium led by  Mark Wilson ,
the former head of AIA. Backed by  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and Swiss
Re Ltd., Wilson bid for the entire Asia business, one person
said. Richard Li, son of Hong Kong’s richest man, bid for ING’s
operations in Southeast Asia and  Japan , the person said.  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and J.C. Flowers & Co. are in
talks for the Japanese business, two people said. Korea Life
Insurance Co., which also bid for the Southeast Asian business,
has not been officially engaged for talks yet, two people said.  Officials JC Flowers couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment. Spokesmen for Korea Life, Blackstone, Apollo and Swiss
Re declined to comment, as did a spokesman for  Richard Li .  Country Valuation  ING, led by Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen, has to sell
the insurance business globally before the end of 2013 to comply
with conditions imposed by the European Union after the firm
received state aid in 2008 and 2009.  South Korea and Japan, which accounted for a combined 79
percent of pretax profit last year, may fetch 1.95 billion euros
and 1.16 billion euros respectively,  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) 
analysts wrote in a May 2 note to clients. Malaysia, which
contributed 17 percent to pretax profit, may result in 851
million euros in proceeds while rest of Asia may be sold for 1
billion euros, the research report said.  ING’s Asia insurance operations are primarily concentrated
in South Korea, Japan and Malaysia, Nomura said. It also has
smaller businesses in  Hong Kong  and  Thailand . The current sale
doesn’t include joint ventures in China and India, people
familiar with the process have said.  ING’s variable annuity business in Japan, accounting for
about half of the business there, would be most interesting for
parties such as buyout firms that can combine it with other run-
off books and thus significantly reduce costs, Cheuvreux’s
Pluijgers said. Uncertainty on policy holder behavior decreases
the business’s value, he said. ING’s Japanese variable annuity
business, for which ING stopped selling policies in 2009, has a
book value of about 200 million euros to 300 million euros,
according to the analyst.  Closed variable annuities link payouts from life insurance
retirement contracts to the performance of an investment
portfolio.  The Dutch company is also selling its asset management
business in  Asia , which may fetch 319 million euros, according
to Nomura’s report.  ING shares fell 0.52 percent in Amsterdam on Tuesday to
5.38 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mohammed Hadi at 
 mhadi1@bloomberg.net  