-- Tinkler Said to Mull Lower Offer for Whitehaven on Slump
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-07-31T08:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/tinkler-said-to-mull-lower-offer-for-whitehaven-on-slump.html
A group led by  Nathan Tinkler  is
considering lowering the price of its A$5.3 billion ($5.6
billion) offer for  Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC)  after the Australian
coal producer’s shares slumped and coal prices weakened,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Tinkler Group Pty is studying whether the deal is still
viable at the original cash offer of A$5.20 a share, now a 42
percent premium to the last closing price, the people said,
declining to be identified because the talks are private. The
group is continuing talks with investors who may help fund the
transaction, said one of the people.  Tinkler, who is Whitehaven’s largest shareholder with about
 21 percent  of the Sydney-based company, led the group that
offered to buy the rest of the company on July 13. An
independent committee agreed to allow the group access to
Whitehaven’s financial data for four weeks. About 48.3 percent
of shareholders expressed interest in becoming stakeholders in
the new company and another 16.7 percent of shareholders may
also join, according to Whitehaven.  Kate Kerrison, a spokeswoman for Whitehaven, didn’t return
a call today. Calls to Tinkler Group’s offices in Newcastle and
Brisbane weren’t answered.  Tinkler, 36, an electrician-turned-miner who took his stake
in Whitehaven when the company bought his Aston Resources Ltd.
in May, is taking advantage of a 31 percent slump in the coal
producer’s shares this year. Whitehaven said June 13 it had
received an initial offer from Tinkler.  Falling Prices  Coal prices  have buckled because of weaker demand in India
and  China  as economic growth slows. U.S. producers boosting
exports of thermal coal as cheap domestic gas supplies prompt
substitutions have also weighed prices down. About 69 percent of
Whitehaven’s production was thermal coal, used to generate
electricity, during fiscal 2012. Prices have dropped 20 percent
since the start of the year.  Tinkler’s group has conditional letters of support from  UBS
AG (UBSN) , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays Plc. They have agreed in
principle to provide about A$2.5 billion in loans to help fund
the deal, people familiar with the matter said June 18.  Whitehaven’s seven mine assets in New South Wales include
the coking coal Maules Creek mine, the thermal coal Rocglen
operations, as well as Sunnyside, Vickery, Werris Creek, and
Tarrawonga, according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  