-- Ireland’s 2012 Budget-Deficit Target in Reach, Central Bank Says
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-07-31T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/ireland-s-2012-budget-deficit-target-in-reach-central-bank-says.html
Ireland’s  central bank  said that the
government should meet a 2012 budget-deficit target as it raised
its growth forecast and said a slump in domestic demand may
bottom out next year.  “Fiscal developments have remained broadly on track,” the
central bank said in its Quarterly Bulletin published in Dublin
today. “A gradual moderation in the contraction in domestic
demand is forecast for this year with activity in the domestic
economy gradually bottoming out during the course of 2013.”  Ireland returned to the  bond market  last week with the sale
of 4.2 billion euros ($5.2 billion) of new securities. While the
external environment remains “very challenging,” the central
bank said there is some evidence that Ireland is decoupling from
other peripheral nations in the euro area. Ireland aims to
narrow its deficit to 8.6 percent of output this year in line
with its bailout program.  Gross domestic product will rise 0.7 percent this year, the
central bank said, compared with its April forecast for 0.5
percent. The economy will grow 1.9 percent next year, compared
with a 2.1 percent forecast in April. Ireland’s  Finance Ministry 
also forecasts 0.7 percent expansion in 2012.  Ireland’s economy returned to growth for the first time in
four years in 2011, expanding by 1.4 percent. Still, it shrank
1.1 percent in the first quarter.  Ireland’s bid to avoid a second bailout from 2013 improved
after euro-area policy makers opened the door in June to
recapitalizing banks directly with the European Stability
Mechanism, instead of through the government. Prime Minister
 Enda Kenny  said he will seek the “maximum benefit” in talks
with European partners to reduce the burden of the country’s 64
billion-euro bailout of its banks.  While the negotiations “may in time reduce the effort
needed to reduce the national debt to a sustainable level over
the medium term, it does not remove the urgency of bringing
revenues and expenditure into broad balance,” the central bank
said. “In particular, it is vital to ensure that the  deficit
reduction  targeted for this year, and subsequent years, is
solidly achieved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  