-- Irish Central Bank Says Euro Economy Shrank in Second Quarter
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-07-31T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/irish-central-bank-says-euro-economy-shrank-in-second-quarter.html
The Irish central bank said the
euro-region economy probably contracted in the second quarter
and the sovereign debt crisis could delay a recovery.  “Economic activity stagnated in the euro area at the turn
of the year and available indicators suggest that the economy
shrunk further in the second quarter of 2012,” the Dublin-based
institution said in its quarterly bulletin published today.
“The widespread deterioration in sentiment and the high levels
of uncertainty threaten to further delay the gradual recovery
forecast for the second half of this year.”  With economic confidence in the euro area declining,
unemployment at the highest on record and bond yields elevated
in Spain and  Italy , policy makers are weighing options to step
up their response to the crisis. European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  is under pressure to announce new measures after he
pledged last week to do whatever it takes to preserve the euro.  “The recent intensification of the sovereign debt crisis
and the sharp increase in uncertainty highlights the significant
risk that problems in the financial sector can spill over to the
real economy,” the Irish central bank said. “The risks to the
euro-area outlook are tilted to the downside and remain
dominated by concerns about sovereign debt, but also include a
possible slowdown in the world economy.”  The  International Monetary Fund  on July 16 cut its 2013
global growth forecast to 3.9 percent from 4.1 percent, citing
 Europe ’s fiscal crisis and slowing activity in  emerging markets 
from  China  to  India . The IMF predicts global growth of 3.5
percent this year.  “Growth expectations for 2012 are moderate and continue to
be characterized by an uneven performance, with weak growth
expected in advanced economies, while emerging markets are set
to continue to expand at a faster pace, despite moderating
recently,” the Irish central bank said. “If the positive
global situation can be maintained, it will help boost euro-area
export growth over the forecast horizon, while accommodative
monetary policy and declining energy prices should help support
domestic demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  