-- Irish Judge Dismisses Treasury Holdings Challenge to NAMA
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-07-31T13:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/irish-judge-dismisses-treasury-holdings-challenge-to-nama-1-.html
Ireland’s  High Court  dismissed a
challenge by Treasury Holdings Ltd., a real estate developer,
against the National Asset Management Agency’s appointment of
receivers to some of the company’s units.  Treasury’s case was rejected because the company had agreed
not to object to the appointment of receivers if talks with
investors didn’t satisfy Dublin-based NAMA, Judge Mary Finlay
Geoghegan wrote in the judgment, issued at the court in the
Irish capital today. NAMA, the country’s so-called bad bank,
rejected offers in January from Hines Real Estate Holdings LP
and  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  to buy loans secured by assets owned by
Treasury, she said.  “An agreement which purports to remove any recourse to the
courts in the event a dispute arises may be void at common
law,” Geoghegan said. “However, on the facts, I have concluded
that this is not such a case.”  NAMA set a Jan. 25 deadline for Dublin-based Treasury
Holdings to pay back part of the 1.7 billion euros ($2.2
billion) in loans that the government agency held. It appointed
receivers when the developer failed to do so. NAMA was set up in
2009 to help purge Ireland’s banks of 74.2 billion euros of
troubled commercial real-estate loans, for which it paid about
31.7 billion euros.  Treasury will appeal the court ruling. “We believe that a
third-party negotiator should now be appointed to secure the
best bid for the Treasury Holdings loans,” the developer said
in an e-mailed statement.  NAMA welcomed the ruling and “will continue to work with
the NAMA-appointed receivers in this case to maximize the return
to the taxpayer,” the agency said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 