-- Missy Franklin Swims to Gold as Seebohm Cries Over Missed Chance
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-31T01:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/missy-franklin-swims-to-gold-as-seebohm-cries-over-missed-chance.html
U.S. high school student Missy Franklin swam a U.S. record in the women’s 100-meter backstroke
to take gold from Emily Seebohm, an Australian who overcame
swine flu last year to reach the  Olympic Games  in  London .  Franklin, a 17-year-old from Colorado, won in 58.33 seconds
yesterday. Seebohm finished in 58.68 for the silver medal and
Aya Terakawa of  Japan  took the bronze medal in 58.83.  “I never thought I’d be able to do it at 17,” Franklin
said in a news conference after she had cried and forgotten the
words to the U.S. national anthem during the medal ceremony.
“It feels absolutely incredible.”  Franklin was given permission to use the diving pool during
the 13-minute turnaround between her 200-meter freestyle
semifinal, where she placed eighth, and the backstroke final.
While she was there, record 14-time gold medalist  Michael Phelps 
stopped by to give her a pep talk.  “He gave me a huge high five,” Franklin said. “He told
me, ‘The most I had in between two races was 30 minutes.’ He had
a big smile on his face.”  Franklin didn’t regard the short gap between races as an
impediment to her chances of winning.  “I love to do back-to-back doubles like that,” she said.
“It doesn’t leave me any time to get nervous, so I was still on
my little adrenaline high and I couldn’t wait for backstroke.”  Even Younger  Franklin wasn’t the youngest woman to win gold in the pool
yesterday. Ruta Meilutyte, a 15-year-old from  Lithuania , won the
100-meter breaststroke.  Seebohm’s runner-up finish earned her a bonus of A$13,400
($14,000) from the Australian Olympic Committee a year after she
collapsed following the 100-meter backstroke final at the
national championships from the effects of swine flu. She also
was treated for tonsillitis, bronchitis and pancreatitis in
2011.  Seebohm, 20, reached the final in London with the help of
an Olympic record 58.23 in qualifying. That time would have won
the gold, and the silver medalist couldn’t contain her
disappointment.  “I’m still pretty proud of myself,” the 5-foot-11 (1.8
meter) swimmer from Adelaide said through tears. “I came
through a lot. A lot of people wrote me off, but I stood strong
and I kept going and I never gave up.”  Franklin trailed at the halfway mark before surging to take
0.52 seconds off the national record she set in late June at the
U.S. swimming trials.  Seven Events  Nicknamed “Missy the Missile,” Franklin is entered in
seven Olympic events, the most of any U.S. woman swimmer.  Franklin said at a news conference last week that she’s
competing to bring pride to  Colorado  after 12 people were shot
to death July 20 in Aurora, the town where she trains and
attends Regis Jesuit High School. James Holmes, a 24-year-old
graduate student, was charged yesterday with first-degree murder
and attempted first-degree murder in the movie theater attack.  Franklin won five medals, including three golds, at last
year’s world championships in  Shanghai  and was part of the U.S.
400-meter freestyle squad that took bronze on the opening day of
the swim meet at the Olympics on July 28.  The teenager started swimming in classes with her mother
when she was 6 months old and competes for her high school. She
has declined sponsorship offers to maintain her amateur status
and eligibility to compete at college in the U.S.  $1 Million  Bob Dorfman, the executive creative director at San
Francisco-based Baker Street Advertising, said Franklin may be
giving up the chance to make more than $1 million in
endorsements if her success continues in London.  “If you use Phelps as a gauge and how much he’s made, it’s
maybe in the low seven figures that she could be leaving on the
table,” Dorfman said in a telephone interview.  Franklin said yesterday that she’s determined to go to
college, and last week said she’ll seek advice from Phelps after
the Olympics about the next step in her career.  Phelps, 27, took some classes at the  University of Michigan 
after the 2004 Athens Olympics. He did not finish a degree
there, and did not swim for the Wolverines because he had turned
pro before he attended the school.  Franklin, described by former U.S. gold medalist and
television swimming analyst Rowdy Gaines as a “once-in-a-
generation athlete,” may be positioning herself as a coveted
corporate spokeswoman for the 2016 Olympics in  Rio de Janeiro ,
Dorfman said.  “If she performs up to speed here, she would be 21 years
old in  Brazil  and would be the big story there,” Dorfman said.
“She may be leaving the money on the table now, but would
collect it in four years.”  Franklin already has given up $115,000 in prize money and
bonuses. The U.S. Olympic Committee pays gold medalists $25,000,
while USA Swimming adds a $75,000 bonus, the  Associated Press 
reported July 19. A silver medal earns $30,000, while a bronze
is worth $15,000, the agency said.  Not that it seems to matter to Franklin. When asked where
her medal was, she took it out of her U.S. swim team jacket, put
it around her neck and said with a smile:  “Isn’t it pretty?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the Aquatics Centre at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja at the Aquatics Centre at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  