-- Mitsubishi UFJ to Mizuho Weather Europe and Beat Estimates
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2012-08-01T02:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/mitsubishi-ufj-to-mizuho-weather-europe-and-surpass-estimates.html
Profits at  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. (8306)  and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  beat analysts’ first-
quarter estimates, showing  Japan ’s megabanks are withstanding a
slump in  Europe  that hurt income at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  UBS AG. (UBSN)   Profit at Mitsubishi UFJ, the country’s biggest lender,
fell 64 percent to 182.9 billion yen ($2.34 billion) from a year
earlier, when it posted a gain from conversion of Morgan Stanley
preferred shares. Mizuho, Japan’s third biggest bank by market
value, almost doubled net income to 183.9 billion yen as higher
bond-trading income offset a decline in lending.  Japan’s economy is proving resilient to Europe’s debt
crisis, posting data yesterday showing the nation’s jobless  rate 
unexpectedly dropped to 4.3 percent as services hiring countered
a decline in manufacturing jobs. Mizuho shares have risen 25
percent this year and Mitsubishi UFJ has advanced 14 percent,
compared with declines at Deutsche Bank and UBS, both of which
reported earnings that missed analyst estimates yesterday.  “While Europe’s debt crisis persists, Japanese lenders
look relatively solid and should catch a tailwind and further
boost lending abroad,” said Shinichiro Nakamura, a Tokyo-based
analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “How fast they can expand
loans in  Asia  will be key for the megabanks to make their future
growth more promising.”  Japan Gains  Mitsubishi UFJ shares fell 2.4 percent to 372 yen as of
11:10 a.m. in Tokyo, while Mizuho rose as much as 0.8 percent to
130 yen. The  Topix (TPNBNK)  Banks  Index (SX7P)  dropped 0.7 percent, paring this
year’s gain to 6.9 percent. By contrast, Europe’s Stoxx 600
Banks Index has lost about 2 percent this year.  Mizuho beat the 120 billion yen average of five analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, while Mitsubishi UFJ beat
analysts’ estimate of 164 billion yen. Japan’s second-biggest
lender,  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , July 30 said
first-quarter net income fell 43 percent to 117.8 billion yen,
beating analysts’ average estimate of 112 billion yen.  “Japanese banks’ earnings will grow as they make progress
in expanding their business overseas. We shouldn’t be
pessimistic about the Japanese banking sector,” Kenji Abe, an
equity strategist at Citigroup Global Markets Japan Inc., said
in a Bloomberg Television interview. “I expect the government
to make a stimulus package that will boost economic growth from
late this fiscal year or next year, so I’m not bearish on
Japanese domestic demand.”  Sumitomo Mitsui  Sumitomo Mitsui  has said it seeks to add 6 trillion yen of
overseas assets in the next three years to help offset sluggish
Japanese loan demand. Mizuho plans to boost overseas lending by
as much as 30 percent a year, targeting Asian companies unable
to borrow from European banks.  Syndicated loans in Japan jumped 12 percent to the highest
in four years in the first half, aided by demand for acquisition
funds as companies sought to take advantage of the yen near
postwar highs to expand overseas.  Lending increased to 15.1 trillion yen in the six months
ended June 30 from the same period a year earlier, the highest
since 15.8 trillion yen in the first half of 2008, according to
figures released yesterday on the Japanese Bankers Association’s
website.  “Europe’s debt crisis has forced eurozone banks to reduce
their assets” in Asia,  Standard & Poor’s  credit analysts led by
Naoko Nemoto wrote in a report dated July 30 detailing Japanese
banks’ hunt for lending growth overseas. “The retreat has given
banks new business opportunities, particularly in syndicated
loans, project finance and trade finance.”  European Banks  Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s biggest bank, posted a second-
quarter profit decline of 46 percent to 650 million euros ($688
million). The lender said the euro’s decline against the  U.S.
dollar  and British pound drove up costs in those regions
relative to Germany.  Earnings at its  investment bank  slid 63 percent to 357
million euros as revenue from trading and issuing securities
shrank amid Europe’s debt crisis, it said in a statement. That
missed the 835 million-euro average estimate of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Deutsche Bank said it will eliminate 1,900 jobs by the end
of the year, including 1,500 at the investment bank and support
areas, as part of an effort to save 3 billion euros.  The  shares  fell 0.5 percent to 24.78 euros yesterday in
 Frankfurt . That extended the stock’s decline to 18 percent this
year.  UBS Declines  UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, said  profit  fell 58
percent to 425 million Swiss francs ($434 million), missing
analysts’ estimates, as the company’s investment bank lost money
on the  Facebook Inc. (FB)  stock sale. That fell short of the 1.09
billion-franc mean estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  UBS fell 5.9 percent to 10.29 francs yesterday in Zurich
trading, extending its decline this year to 8 percent.  In Japan bank lending rose 0.8 percent in June, the ninth
straight month of year-on-year gains that were less than 1
percent, according to central bank data. Companies have horded
cash and are reluctant to borrow as the world’s third-biggest
economy slows. Industrial production declined for a third month
in June, according to government figures.  Mizuho’s lending profit fell 2 percent to 259 billion yen
last quarter from a year earlier, according to yesterday’s
statement. Bond and securities trading income more than tripled
to 143 billion yen from 43.2 billion yen.  Lending profit at Mitsubishi UFJ declined 11 percent to 419
billion yen in the April-June quarter from a year earlier, while
securities trading income more than doubled to 215 billion yen
from 82.9 billion yen, yesterday’s report showed.  Mitsubishi UFJ maintained its full-year profit target of
670 billion yen for the year through March, while Mizuho kept
its forecast of 500 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in  Tokyo  at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  