-- J.Crew to Open First Asian Store in Hong Kong
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-07-31T09:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/j-crew-to-open-first-asian-store-in-hong-kong.html
J.Crew Group Inc., the apparel
retailer whose customers include U.S. First Lady  Michelle Obama ,
is planning its first Asian store in  Hong Kong  targeting
tourists from mainland China that totaled 28 million last year.  The retailer may open the Hong Kong store as early as next
year and is also looking for sites in Beijing and Shanghai,
Chief Executive Officer Mickey Drexler said in an interview in
Hong Kong.  Closely held J.Crew is pushing to reach Chinese shoppers as
competition heats up and economic growth slows in the world’s
most populous nation. The apparel company will join brands
including  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF) , Gap Inc. and  Burberry Group
PLC (BRBY)  in courting tourists from China’s mainland in the former
British colony.  “We feel that we’re ready to go international,” said
Drexler. “Going international is a strong learning curve and it
could distract us from building our business in the U.S., but we
feel that the time is right now.”  China’s apparel market is forecast to more than triple to
1.3 trillion  yuan  ($204 billion) by 2020 from 2010 as rising
incomes fuel demand, the Boston Consulting Group Inc. said in a
report last year.  “Brands entering China only now have still a lot to fight
for,” said Yuval Atsmon, a Shanghai-based partner at McKinsey &
Co. “Even a slower growing China would still deliver more
apparel growth than any other market in the world.”  Overseas Growth  Founded in 1983, J.Crew has more than 200 stores in the
U.S. and Canada and is preparing to expand in Europe and Asia.
Drexler said today that the company will open a store in London
next year, ahead of Hong Kong. In 2008 the company pulled out of
Japan, where it had some licensed stores through a partnership.
It presently doesn’t have any stores outside the U.S. and
Canada.  The U.S.-based retailer will also sell items including
clothes and shoes at Lane Crawford stores in Hong Kong and China
beginning in October, according to a June statement from the
companies.  Shareholders of  J. Crew  in March 2011 voted in favor of a
takeover by TPG Capital and Leonard Green & Partners LP.
Drexler, known for engineering a turnaround at  Gap Inc. (GPS)  earlier
in his career, is also a board member at  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  