-- Japan to Issue Bridging Bonds to Cover Pension Payment Shortfall
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-07-31T04:17:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/japan-to-issue-bridging-bonds-to-cover-pension-payment-shortfall.html
Japan  will issue so-called bridging
bonds to cover a pension-fund shortfall after opposition parties
opposed an initial plan to boost revenue before an increase to
the nation’s  sales tax  takes effect.  The Cabinet approved the planned issuance today, which
won’t increase total monthly government bond sales, Finance
Minister  Jun Azumi  told reporters in  Tokyo . Bridging bond sales
will total about 2.6 trillion yen ($33.3 billion) per year, a
finance ministry official said at a separate briefing.  “We will make efforts to get parliament’s consent for the
plan as soon as possible,” Azumi said.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  is grappling with the world’s
largest public debt as an aging population drives up spending on
pensions and social welfare. The national debt is predicted by
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development to
reach 223 percent of gross domestic product next year.  The government needs to sell bridging bonds this and next
fiscal years until the sales tax is raised and revenues
increase, according to a government statement released today.
The bonds will be paid back from future revenues generated by
the higher consumption levy, it said.  Higher Revenue  The  Finance Ministry  was able to cancel part of its planned
bond issuances in fiscal 2011 because of better-than-expected
tax revenues. The reduction in sales allowed the ministry to
issue some of the fiscal 2012 debt in advance, creating room for
these bridging bonds, the official said at a briefing on
condition of anonymity because of the ministry’s policy.  In fiscal 2011, the ministry reduced the issuance of
deficit-financing bonds by 1.5 trillion yen, reconstruction
bonds by 300 billion yen and fiscal and investment loan program
bonds by 3.4 trillion yen from the original planned sales
amounts, the official said.  The government had initially proposed using pension-
financing bonds that wouldn’t be issued until the money was
required. The ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan abandoned that
plan after it was criticized by opposition parties who argued it
was a way of hiding the size of the government’s total bond
sales.  The lower house, the more powerful chamber of the
parliament, last month passed legislation to raise the
consumption levy to 8 percent in 2014 and then 10 percent in
2015 from the current 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  