-- Jazeera Airways Quarterly Net Rises 23% on Kuwaiti Economy
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d   a n d   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-07-31T13:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/jazeera-airways-quarterly-net-rises-23-on-kuwaiti-economy-1-.html
Jazeera Airways (JAZEERA) , a Kuwait-based
airline, said second-quarter profit advanced 23 percent as sales
benefitted from rising personal income in the country.  Net income climbed to 2.6 million dinars ($9.2 million)
from 2.1 million dinars a year earlier, the company said in an
e-mailed statement today. EFG-Hermes Holding SAE’s estimate was
for a profit of 2 million dinars. Revenue rose 12 percent to
15.6 million dinars.  “We expect to maintain the same double-digit growth in
profit for the year,” Chairman Marwan Boodai said in a phone
interview today. “Kuwait has the highest surplus ever
registered in the government’s budget and that reflects the
strength of the economy. We have more disposable income and that
is helping an airline like Jazeera.”  Kuwait posted a preliminary  budget surplus  of 16.07 billion
dinars in the first 11 months of the fiscal year that ended
March 31, the  Finance Ministry  said April 23. The Persian Gulf
emirate is set to post its 13th straight budget surplus because
of high  oil prices  for the last fiscal year.  Jazeera Airways, which started operations in 2005 as the
first Middle Eastern non-government owned airline, has a fleet
of 12 Airbus SAS A320 planes and expects the delivery of three
more by the end of 2014. It flies to 19 destinations in the
 Middle East , North Africa and Turkey.  Increasing Demand  The carrier will use the new A320s to replace older planes,
which may be leased through its fully owned leasing-arm Sahaab
Aircraft Leasing that has aircraft leased to  Virgin America  and
Sri Lankan Airlines.  “We will maintain the same number of destinations and will
focus on adding frequencies,” said Boodai. “We see increasing
demand in Jeddah, Riyadh, Dubai, we believe that Egypt is coming
back slowly but eventually there will be more demand there and
one day in the Levant when the situation settles down there will
be demand in Lebanon and Syria.”  Jazeera Airways competes at home with unprofitable state-
owned Kuwait Airways Corp., which has been approved for sale by
parliament in January 2008, and in the Gulf Arab region with  Air
Arabia PJSC (AIRARABI) , Gulf Air and FlyDubai. Jazeera started flights to
Najaf in April, becoming the first Kuwaiti airline to fly to
Iraq since the 1990  Gulf War .  Jazeera  shares  rose 1.2 percent to 410 fils at the close in
Kuwait today. The stock has declined 0.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net ;
Tamara Walid in Dubai at   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  