-- John Phelan in Aspen, Nobel Economist, Hedge Funds Care
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n   a n d   N a t h a n i e l   B a k e r
-- 2012-07-31T18:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/john-phalen-in-aspen-nobel-economist-hedge-funds-care.html
 John Phelan, co-managing partner
and co-founder of MSD Capital LP, and his wife, Amy, will host a
party at their Aspen home tomorrow with a focus on wine.  Among the ski town sommeliers expected to attend are
Jonathan Pullis of Montagna at the Little Nell, Alex Havier of
Cache Cache, Oliver Jaderko of the Caribou Club and Gerald
Theron of Syzygy.  The event is part of the Aspen Art Museum’s annual three-
day ArtCrush, which Amy Phelan serves as chairman.  Mark Pincus , chief executive officer of  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  and
Allen Questrom, a board member of  Foot Locker Inc. (FL) , are expected
to attend the festivities.  The artist Tom Sachs, who recently brought a conception of
outer space to the Park Avenue Armory, will receive the 2012
Aspen Art Award on Friday. He’s also made a work for the auction
that night, titled “Poche Vide.”  Sachs dined with Nobel Prize-winning economist Edmund Phelps Saturday night at the 19th annual  Watermill Center 
benefit.  The event, a pageant of performance and auction, raised
more than $1.5 million to support artists’ residencies at the
center, which was created by theater and opera designer  Robert
Wilson .  Phelps was a guest of media entrepreneur Louise Blouin and
her husband, Matthew Kabatoff, executive director of the  Louise
Blouin Foundation .  ‘Driving Force’  “It is wonderful to see such a benefit for creativity,”
Phelps, director of the Center on Capitalism and Society at
 Columbia University , wrote yesterday in an e-mail. “The event
brings home the point that ideas are the driving force in the
world. Yet, just as the development of creative ideas of
commercial value requires backers, so the development of ideas
having an artistic purpose also requires backers. This open,
vigorous competition for financial backing of creativity is very
American, I think.”  To Phelps’s point, on the same night the  Rush Philanthropic
Arts Foundation  13th annual Art for Life benefit raised more
than $1.9 million to support arts programs for poor, minority
populations. Marc Leder, co-CEO of Sun Capital Partners Inc., an
honoree, brought his daughter Samantha, a student at  Southern
Methodist University . Shad Azimi, managing partner and founder
of  Vanterra Capital LLC , attended with his girlfriend, Paula
Medeiros, a model.  Hedge Funds  Hedge Funds Care  held its first-ever event in the Hamptons
on Saturday. About 150 hedge fund professionals turned up for
the “Behind the Hedges” cocktail party at the  Southampton
Social Club , which was organized by the charity’s NYC Young
Professionals Committee. John A. Auerbach, a partner with the
Charter Oak Financial Group, founded the committee last October.  Noelle-Claire Lecann, president of New York-based
AlphaSource Capital Securities, was in attendance, along with
committee members Stephanie Doane, managing director of business
development at Butterfield Fulcrum Group, and Carolyn Kim,
associate tax counsel at Goldentree Asset Management.  “Based on tonight’s experience I would say this is going
to be the first of many Hamptons events” for the organization,
Hedge Funds Care founder Rob Davis said in a brief address at
the end of the night.  The event raised more than $60,000 for the charity, which
gives grants to nonprofits that prevent and treat child abuse.
Silent-auction items raised $10,000 of the total.  ( Amanda Gordon  and Nathaniel Baker are writers and
photographers for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on dining and  Mike Di
Paola  on the environment.  To contact the writers on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon;
Nathaniel Baker in New York at  nbaker14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 