-- Juventus Puts Together $110 Million Van Persie Package: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-31T07:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/juventus-puts-together-110-million-van-persie-package-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  $110 Million Package  Juventus plans to spend 70 million pounds ($110 million) to
secure Arsenal striker  Robin van Persie  ahead of  Manchester
United  and  Manchester City , the  Daily Mirror reported .  The Italian champion’s package includes a 20 million-pound
transfer fee and wages of 190,000 pounds a week after tax for
the duration of a five-year contract, the newspaper said.  Hammers Face Fight  West Ham United faces a fight to persuade Liverpool striker
Andy Carroll to join the club on its return to the Premier
League, the  Sun reported.   Although the Hammers are willing to pay 2 million pounds to
take the England striker on loan next season with the
possibility of a permanent move if they stay up, Carroll isn’t
keen on a move to  London , the newspaper added.  Newcastle Bid  Newcastle United  is considering a fresh bid for Carroll,
whom it sold to Liverpool for 35 million pounds in January 2011,
after West Ham outlined the loan fee, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Magpies have so far offered to take the England striker
on loan with 13 million pounds to follow, which Liverpool
rejected because it wants closer to 20 million pounds, the
newspaper said.  Brazilian Defender  Newcastle bid 4 million pounds for  FC Twente ’s Brazilian
defender Douglas Texeira, the  Sun reported . The 6-foot-3 center-
back, who has one year remaining on his contract, has also been
linked with  Aston Villa , the newspaper added.  Rio’s Regret  Manchester United defender Rio Ferdinand is said to regret
the Twitter comment that led to him being charged with improper
conduct by the Football Association, the  Mirror reported .  Ferdinand is frustrated that he let his guard down when he
responded to a post that called Chelsea defender  Ashley Cole  a
“choc ice,” repeating the slang term, which is purported to
mean black on the outside and white on the inside, in the
process, the Mirror said.  Ferdinand has until 4 p.m. on Aug. 2 to respond to the
charge, the F.A.  said in a statement  yesterday.  City Bonus  Manchester City’s Premier League title-winning squad shared
a 6.2 million-pound bonus payment for securing the club’s first
English championship in 44 years, the  Independent reported .  The payments were made on a pro-rata basis with 24 players
getting 11,472 pounds for each league appearance, the newspaper
added. Goalkeeper  Joe Hart  was the only player to feature in all
38 league games, earning him 446,212 pounds, the Independent
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  