-- Keker, Vinson & Elkins, Wachtell, & Loeb & Loeb: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-07-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/keker-vinson-elkins-wachtell-loeb-loeb-business-of-law.html
John Keker, the lawyer for Brian
Stoker, the former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  executive on trial in a fraud
involving collateralized debt obligations, was scolded by Judge
Jed S. Rakoff, who told him with the jury out of the courtroom
that he was in danger of being found in contempt of court.  Stoker committed  securities fraud  that can’t be blamed just
on the bank, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawyer
Jeffrey Infelise told jurors yesterday at the close of the case.  “If Citigroup stacked the deck, Mr. Stoker built the
cards,” Infelise said. “He was essential. He was in the middle
of this. They could not have done this without him.”  The SEC accused Stoker, a former head of the Citigroup
collateralized debt obligations structuring group, of
negligently violating  securities law  in putting together the
assets in “Class V Funding III,” a $1 billion CDO. The
government claims Citigroup withheld information from investors
about the bank’s interest in the assets.  Keker, founding partner of Keker & Van Nest LLP, accused
Infelise of acting like a “rabid dog,” saying the SEC’s case
reminded him of the children’s book series “Where’s Waldo?”  When the jury was present, Keker argued that the investors
were sophisticated enough to understand that sometimes the bank
behind the deal also has a stake in the fund.  “I’m not suggesting for a second that you can lie to
anyone, but these investors were not misled,” Keker said.
“They were given everything they wanted.”  “Most of this trial had nothing to do with Brian Stoker,”
Keker said. “The SEC has created a false world that simply
ignores what the evidence is.”  Infelise said Citigroup hand-picked assets that the bank
expected to perform poorly, and then bought protection for them
to ensure the bank would make money. Stoker omitted the bank’s
connection to the transaction from packages sent to potential
investors, Infelise said.  “Doing nothing when you’re working on disclosures to
investors in a billion-dollar CDO is not reasonable,” he said.  Rakoff, who kept the lawyers in the courtroom after jurors
went to lunch, said he was “deeply concerned with the tone and
manner of defense counsel’s summation.”  “You’re playing with fire,” Rakoff told Keker, saying the
defense attorney began with “a personalized attack on the SEC
counsel” that “was blatantly untrue in this court’s
observation.”  Rakoff added, “There were a bunch of other
improprieties,” and warned Keker he would be held in contempt
of court if he continued to make such arguments. Rakoff cited
the lawyer’s references to the jury-selection process and said
he had made a “blatant appeal to prejudice against the SEC.”  The judge gave the SEC lawyers an additional 15 minutes
yesterday afternoon for rebuttal partly because of the defense’s
tone earlier. He commended Keker for his tone in the afternoon
arguments.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stoker, 11-cv-7388, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Deals  CB&I to Buy Shaw Group for $3 Billion to Add Nuclear Unit  Chicago Bridge & Iron Co. (CBI)  agreed to buy  Shaw Group Inc. (SHAW)  for
about $3 billion, expanding its nuclear building services in a
portfolio of energy-related engineering and construction
projects.  Shaw received legal advice from Vinson & Elkins LLP and
Jones Walker Waechter Poitevent Carrere & Denegre LLP while
Morgan Stanley gave financial advice. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &
Katz acted as legal counsel to CB&I and Bank of America Corp.
acted as the financial adviser.  The V&E mergers and acquisitions team was led by partners
Keith Fullenweider and includes Jeff Floyd and Steve Gill.
Capital Markets partner Dave Oelman advised on securities and
governance matters.  V&E partners who also assisted on the transaction include:
Brian Bloom, employee benefits; David Stone, debt capital
markets; Suzanne Reifman and  David Johnson , government
contracts; Tom Wilson, labor/employment; Billy Vigdor and Dionne
Lomax, antitrust;  John Lynch , tax; Will Bos, finance; Michael
Holmes, litigation; and Larry Nettles, environmental.  Partner Scott Chenevert was lead counsel for Jones Walker.
Additional partners who assisted included: David Radlauer and
Mark Cunningham, antitrust;  Arnold Havens on foreign investment
issues and special counsel Richard Wolfe, securities.  Wachtell’s team is led by corporate partners Daniel A. Neff
and David E. Shapiro. Additional partners on the deal include:
Nelson O. Fitts, antitrust; David E. Kahan, executive
compensation and benefits; Eric M. Rosof, restructuring and
finance; and T. Eiko Stange and Joshua M. Holmes, tax.  CB&I said the combined company will be one of the world’s
largest energy-construction and engineering-contracting firms,
with a work backlog of more than $28 billion.  The deal is the biggest of 79 construction and engineering
acquisitions announced in the U.S. this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The average premium of the deals was 10.6
percent.  For more, click here.  News  Avon’s Jung Sought for Interview Amid Bribery Probe  Federal prosecutors looking into possible bribery of
foreign officials by  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  have asked to interview
 Andrea Jung , the company’s chairman and former CEO, the Wall
Street Journal reported, citing people familiar.  Prosecutors contacted Jung’s attorney, Theodore Wells Jr.,
at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP, the paper said.  The world’s largest door-to-door cosmetics seller is
investigating potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, which outlaws bribing foreign officials.  Jung hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing  Avon representatives declined comment when contacted by
Bloomberg News.  On July 20, Avon general counsel Kim Rucker announced plans
to leave the company for another post. Rucker, who will leave
after Aug. 17 to become executive vice president of corporate
and legal affairs in Kraft Foods Inc.’s North America unit. She
will be based in  Chicago , where she’s from, New York-based Avon
said in a statement.  Libor Rigging Can Be Prosecuted Under U.K. Law, SFO Says  U.K. fraud prosecutors will investigate the manipulation of
Libor and other  interest rates  after deciding that existing
British criminal law covers the conduct involved.  U.K. law provides the basis to bring charges,  David Green ,
the director of the  Serious Fraud Office , said yesterday in a
statement. The U.K. joins the U.S. in criminally investigating
how derivatives traders and rate submitters colluded to rig the
London Interbank Offered Rate, or Libor.  Green said on July 2 that the agency was considering
whether it was possible to bring a prosecution after U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and  Ed Miliband ,
leader of the opposition  Labour Party , called for a criminal
probe. The agency, which declined to get involved for more than
a year under its previous director, hired  Mukul Chawla  to be its
lead external lawyer on the issue.  The SFO probe began after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined a record
290 million pounds ($455 million) by U.K. and U.S. authorities,
and British politicians called for a criminal investigation. The
U.K. Financial Services Authority, which levied the fine along
with the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the
 Justice Department , didn’t have the power to file criminal
interest-rate manipulation charges.  The SFO won’t be starting the case from scratch. The agency
has received regular briefings from the FSA on its civil
investigation and a compilation of findings from the U.S. The
SFO was told by the U.K. Treasury it would be given additional
funds to take on the case after Barclays admitted its employees
tried to manipulate rates for profit.  At least a dozen banks are being probed by regulators
worldwide. In the U.S., the Justice Department is preparing to
file charges this fall against traders from several banks in its
investigation.  For more, click here.  Dewey Team Gets $700,000 in Bonuses Approved  The team winding down bankrupt law firm Dewey & LeBoeuf
LLP, got approval for $700,000 in bonuses from a bankruptcy
judge, the Wall Street Journal  reported .  Judge Martin Glenn said it was reasonable in order to stop
more employees from leaving, despite a Justice Department
objection to the proposal, the paper reported.  Moves  Loeb & Loeb LLP announced that Nathan J. Muyskens has
joined as a partner in the firm’s white-collar criminal defense,
corporate compliance and investigations practice in Washington.
He was previously at Shook, Hardy & Bacon LLP.  Muyskens’s practice focuses on criminal antitrust,
anticorruption, and securities and commodities enforcement
matters. His practice also includes defending companies in
corruption investigations and other matters related to the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In addition to his white-collar
and antitrust practice, Muyskens has conducted internal
investigations into cyber breaches, phishing schemes, denial-of-
service attacks, and other cyber crimes, the firm said.  Prior to his private practice, Muyskens was a trial
attorney with the Federal Trade Commission’s Bureau of
Competition, where he led investigations into the retail and
energy sectors. Prior to his work at the commission, he was an
Associate Independent Counsel with the Office of Independent
Counsel in the matter of In re A. Michael Espy, as part of a
team that investigated and prosecuted several high-ranking
officials of the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . Muyskens also
served as counsel to U.S. Senator Robert J. Dole from 1995 to
1996, the firm said.  With the addition of Muyskens in Washington, Loeb & Loeb’s
white-collar defense team now has 23 attorneys firm wide. The
firm has more than 300 attorneys at five domestic offices, as
well as a representative office in Beijing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 