-- Kenya Laboratories on High Alert After Uganda Ebola Outbreak
-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 2012-07-31T11:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/kenya-places-laboratories-on-high-alert-on-uganda-ebola-outbreak.html
Kenya  placed its laboratories on
high alert and dispatched protective medical gear to its border
provinces amid an outbreak of Ebola in neighboring Uganda that
has killed at least 14 people.  Measures to detect people who may be carrying the virus,
including raising awareness and screenings at airports and
border crossings, have been “invigorated” since the disease
was detected in western Uganda on July 6, said Shikanga O-tipo,
head of the integrated disease surveillance unit at Kenya’s
Public Health Ministry.  “The ministry has put in place measures to ensure that the
outbreak does not find its way into the country so that if by
any chance any case finds its way in, it is detected on time,
and response mounted to stop local transmission,” O-tipo said
in a phone interview today from Nairobi, Kenya’s capital.  The current outbreak of  Ebola , for which there is no
specific treatment or vaccine, is the worst in  Uganda  since
2007, when 42 people died from the disease, according to data on
the U.S. Centers for Disease Control’s website. The virus is
transmitted by direct contact with blood, secretions or other
bodily fluids of infected persons. Symptoms include fevers,
muscle pain, diarrhea and internal and external bleeding.  “We have confidence in the system,” O-tipo said. “We
have no doubt if there was to be an event in the country, that
we would pick it up in time and mount an appropriate response.
The country has no reason to worry.”  Infections  Rwanda, Uganda’s southern neighbor, also took steps to
detect the disease, the Health Ministry said in a statement
today in Kigali, the capital.  “Though no case has been reported in  Rwanda  for the last
15 years, government has put in place measures aimed at
protecting the public from this deadly disease but is also
cautioning Rwandans to remain vigilant and report any suspected
cases immediately,” it said.  The outbreak began in Kibaale, 109 miles (175 kilometers)
west of  Kampala , Uganda’s capital, according to the Health
Ministry, which is monitoring 34 health workers who came in
contact with people suspected to have the virus. A total of 25
people have been infected with the disease, according to the
 Daily Monitor , a Kampala-based newspaper.  Anthony Mbonye, chairman of Uganda’s Ebola task force, was
unable to comment when contacted because he was in a meeting.
The Health Ministry will issue a statement later today,
spokeswoman Rukia Nakamate said in a phone interview.  President’s Warning  Ugandan President  Yoweri Museveni  on July 29 issued an
appeal for citizens of the country to report all suspected cases
of the illness and to avoid contact with those who may have the
disease.  “We discourage the shaking of hands because that can cause
contact through sweat which can cause problems,” he said. “And
when people are sick in hospitals with symptoms which look like
Ebola, they should be handled by medical workers wearing
protective gear.”  About 1,850 cases with more than 1,200 deaths have been
documented since Ebola was discovered in 1976, the  World Health
Organization  says. While the illness can be transmitted by
animals including chimpanzees and primates, the natural
reservoir of the virus is unknown, according to the Geneva-based
agency’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  