-- Korea Bonds Costliest to Stocks in Nine Months Amid Slowdown
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-08-01T01:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/korean-bonds-costliest-to-stocks-in-nine-months-as-economy-slows.html
The biggest rally in South Korean
 government bonds  since 2009 drove valuations to the highest
level in nine months relative to equities as an economic
slowdown prompted investors to favor the safest assets.  Ten-year government notes  yielded  3.01 percent on July 25,
a record low, while the  Kospi index (KOSPI) ’s earnings yield, the
inverse of its price-earnings ratio, was 11.16 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap of 815 basis
points was the widest since October 2011. The difference has
since narrowed to 725 basis points amid speculation European
leaders will do more to tackle a regional debt crisis.  While the 10-year yield dropped 48 basis points in July,
Hanwha Securities Co. and Samsung Asset Management Co. say bonds
may advance further as a global slowdown hurts Korean exports.
Overseas sales tumbled the most in almost three years in July
and inflation was the slowest since 2000, data showed today.
South  Korea ’s economy  grew  2.4 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, the least since 2009.  “In normal economic situations, this valuation gap
would’ve signaled it’s time to buy equities,” Choi Seok Won,
the head of research in  Seoul  at Hanwha Securities, one of South
Korea’s bond primary dealers, said in a phone interview on July
27. “But at times like this when risk appetite is low, the
difference has to be much larger for money to flow quickly into
stocks.”  ‘Nervous Reaction’  The 10-year  yield  fell to 3.14 percent yesterday from 3.62
percent at the end of June as the central bank unexpectedly cut
its benchmark interest  rate  for the first time in three years to
spur demand at home amid a deteriorating global economy. It was
3.10 percent as of 10:26 a.m. today in Seoul. South Korea’s
government debt has handed investors a 4.9 percent return this
year, HSBC Holdings Plc data show.  The  Bank of Korea  lowered its seven-day repurchase rate to
3 percent from 3.25 percent on July 12 and Samsung Asset
Management predicts it will be at 2.50 percent before the end of
this year. Economic growth is forecast to slow to 2.9 percent
this year from 3.6 percent in 2011 and 6.3 percent in 2010,
based on the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  “It’s not the time to start selling bonds expecting an
economic recovery with  Europe ’s situation continuously evoking
nervous reactions in the market,” said Kim Youngsung, head of
fixed income in Seoul at Samsung Asset Management, South Korea’s
biggest fund manager with 118 trillion won ($104 billion) of
assets.  Bond Bubble  Companies on the  Kospi index  trade for 9.6 times estimated
profit, less than the five-year average of 10.8 times, and
compared with the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s 10.5 times,
according to Bloomberg data. The Kospi fell 0.7 percent today,
trimming this year’s advance to 2.4 percent.  “Investors’ risk aversion has reached its maximum level,
which I think can’t be sustainable, and the relative attraction
of stocks is getting bigger,” said Heo Pil Seok, Chief
Executive Officer at Seoul-based Midas International Asset
Management Ltd., which oversees some $5.1 billion. “I think
South Korea’s bonds are now in a bubble phase, with prices
already reflecting further rate cuts.”  South Korea’s  exports  dropped 8.8 percent in July from a
year earlier and consumer prices increased 1.5 percent, the
government reported today. Economists forecast a 3.7 percent
decline in shipments and an inflation rate of 2.0 percent,
Bloomberg surveys showed. Industrial output fell 0.4 percent in
June from the previous month and manufacturers’ confidence is at
a three-year low, according to reports earlier in the week.  Draghi Pledge  Five-year credit-default swaps insuring  South Korea ’s
sovereign debt against default fell six basis points in July to
117, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a
government or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually in a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  European Central Bank council member Ewald Nowotny said in
an interview published July 25 that there are arguments in favor
of giving Europe’s rescue fund a banking license, which would
allow access to European Central Bank lending. ECB President
 Mario Draghi  pledged the next day to do whatever is needed to
preserve the euro. The won and the Kospi gained in the four
trading days since July 25.  Investors should be wary of viewing the comments as a
“permanent cure” to Europe’s crisis, Samsung’s Kim said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net 
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  