-- New Oriental Tops July Rout as Growth Hits ADRs: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-07-31T20:38:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/new-oriental-tops-july-rout-as-growth-hits-adrs-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  traded in  New York 
extended their July slump on concern existing stimulus measures
aren’t sufficient to stem a six-quarter slowdown.  New Oriental (EDU) 
Education & Technology Group Inc. posted its worst monthly
tumble on record.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies fell 0.2 percent to 86.77 yesterday in New
York for a monthly retreat of 4.9 percent.  Suntech Power
Holdings Co. (STP)  extended its drop this month to 40 percent, leading
solar companies lower, as Maxim Group LLC said it will need
government intervention to avoid bankruptcy. New Oriental posted
a 53 percent tumble in July following a regulator investigation
of its accounting practices and short-selling firm Muddy Waters
LLC’s fraud allegations.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said downward pressure on the
economy is “relatively large” and pledged to use different
monetary policy tools to ensure stable growth in  money supply 
and bank credit, the official Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday, citing his speech on July 26. A  slowdown  in the
world’s second-largest economy as well as fraud concerns in some
Chinese companies damped stocks, Solaris Group LLC said.  “The overall economic backdrop globally and in  China  is
still questionable,”  Timothy Ghriskey , chief investment officer
at Solaris, which manages about $2 billion in assets, said in a
phone interview from New York. “You also have accounting issues
with Chinese companies, and right now the accounting issue is a
difficult overhang. These things capture headlines and take down
the whole Chinese market.”  China ETF Gains  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 0.4 percent to $34.21,
extending its monthly gain to 1.6 percent. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index of the biggest U.S. shares declined 0.4 percent to
1,379.32 yesterday as investors awaited the  Federal Reserve ’s
monetary-policy decision today. The measure gained 1.3 percent
in July, the second month of increase.  China has cut  interest rates  twice since early June,
reduced banks’ reserve requirements by 1 percentage point this
year, and sped approvals for investment projects as economic
growth weakened.  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, said he expects China’s central bank to continue
cutting interest rates to shore up the economy.  “I think they need more interest-rate cuts,” O’Neill said
in an interview with Bloomberg Radio from  London  yesterday.
“Inflation has come down sharply, probably more than they
expected, and the economy of course has weakened quite a bit,
too. It’s pretty obvious we’re going to get more rate cuts.”  Suntech’s Defense  Suntech, the world’s largest solar-panel maker based in
Wuxi of China’s Jiangsu province, tumbled 16 percent to $1.13,
after declining 15 percent a day earlier. Its July tumble sent
the stock price to the lowest level since the company’s initial
public offering in 2005, when it sold shares at $15 each.  Suntech said in a July 30 statement that 560 million euros
($689 million) of German bonds as collateral for payment of a
loan to its affiliate Global Solar Fund S.C.A. Sicar may have
never existed. It’s suing Javier Romero, a former Suntech sales
representative who manages GSF, it said.  Chairman Shi Zhengrong defended the decision to funnel
business in  Europe  through GSF yesterday. The affiliate “got
better returns from developing downstream years ago when tariffs
were higher,” Shi said in an interview.  Aaron Chew, a New York-based analyst at Maxim, reduced the
company’s 12-month price target yesterday to zero from 50 cents,
adding Suntech will need government intervention to avoid
bankruptcy. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. analysts also lowered
the price target for Suntech to 88 cents from $1.5 yesterday.  ‘Not Viable’  “The government will orchestrate some sort of buyout,”
probably by a state-owned enterprise, Chew said by phone
yesterday. China doesn’t “want to see Suntech go away. But it’s
not a viable operation right now. It’s not solvent. It needs to
re-cap.”  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) , the world’s sixth-largest
silicon-based solar module producer dropped 13 percent to a
record low of $1.60. The company, based in Baoding of China’s
Hebei province, tumbled 42 percent for the month.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , the fourth-biggest photovoltaic panel
maker, retreated 2.5 percent to $4.72, the lowest level since
February 2009, extending its July decline to 26 percent, while
LDK Solar Co., the world’s second-largest maker of wafers, also
lost 26 percent for the month.  Asia-Info Declines  New Oriental, China’s largest private-education provider,
climbed 4.8 percent to $11.42 yesterday in New York, trimming
its tumble in July to 53 percent, the most since its IPO in
2006.  The Beijing-based company said July 17 the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission was investigating it, and  Muddy Waters 
followed with a report on July 18 to question the ownership of
some of New Oriental’s schools, saying the company may have
inflated its financial statements.  AsiaInfo-Linkage Inc. (ASIA) , which sells telecommunication
software to China’s biggest wireless carriers, fell 1.6 percent
to $10.24, the lowest price in seven weeks. It lost 13 percent
in July.  The Beijing-based company said yesterday in a statement
that while it continues to consider buyout proposals “there can
be no assurance that any definitive offer will ultimately be
made, that any agreement will be executed, or that any
transaction will be approved or consummated.”  AsiaInfo received a buyout offer in January from a unit of
Citic Capital China Partners II, a private-equity fund owned by
China’s state-owned investment company.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of mainland stocks slipped 0.3
percent to 2,103.64 yesterday, the lowest level since March
2009. The gauge sank 5.5 percent in July, a third monthly loss
in a row.  China’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index probably climbed to 50.5
in July from 50.2 in June, according to the median estimate of
24 economists in a Bloomberg News survey before a government
report due today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  