-- News Corp. Journalist Arrested in Probe of Stolen Phones
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-07-31T12:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/news-corp-journalist-arrested-in-probe-of-stolen-phones.html
A second journalist at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Sun tabloid was arrested on suspicion of handling stolen goods
as part of a police probe into allegations that the newspaper
used data from mobile phones that were ripped off.  Police arrested a 37-year-old journalist today, the
Metropolitan Police Service said in a statement. That follows
the arrest of a 51-year-old man yesterday. Both men worked at
the Sun, according to an official at News Corp.’s U.K. unit, who
asked not to be identified, citing company policy.  The alleged thefts are the latest accusation against News
Corp.’s U.K. publishing business, News International, whose
reporters and editors have been accused of hacking into mobile-
phone voice mails and e-mails, bribing public officials and
disrupting police investigations.  Sue Akers , the MPS deputy
assistant commissioner, said last week that officers had
discovered that News International journalists had information
that appeared to be from stolen phones.  About 60 people have been arrested since the police
investigations began last year. Eight former News Corp.
journalists were charged last week with conspiring to intercept
voice mail, including former News International Chief Executive
Officer Rebekah Brooks and Andy Coulson, an ex-lead tabloid
editor who later became an adviser to U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron .  The group sought to hack the mobile-phone messages of more
than 600 people between 2000 and 2006, including U.S. actors
 Brad Pitt  and Angelina Jolie and murdered British teenager Milly
Dowler, the Crown Prosecution Service said in London last week.  New York-based News Corp. has decided to split the company,
isolating the newspaper business, as it attempts to move on from
the scandal. Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch  has appeared
before Parliament alongside his son  James Murdoch  to explain how
illegal activities at his newspapers escaped his notice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  