-- Nigerian Lenders’ African Expansion Face New Hurdles
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u   a n d   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2012-07-31T15:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/nigerian-lenders-african-expansion-face-new-hurdles.html
Nigerian lenders including  Guaranty
Trust Bank Plc (GUARANTY)  and  United Bank for Africa Plc  may retreat from
opening units across  Africa  after a central bank directive that
stops them from funding foreign subsidiaries, analysts at FBN
Capital and  Standard Bank  Plc said.  Banks must obtain new funds to recapitalize their foreign
units and won’t be allowed to use money already raised by their
parent companies, the  Central Bank of Nigeria  said in a
statement published on its website on July 26. Lenders that
can’t raise additional capital for foreign subsidiaries “in the
host market” will have to close the units, the Abuja-based
regulator said.  At least seven of  Nigeria ’s 19 lenders, six of them in the
 Bloomberg NSE Banking Index (NGSEB10)  of 10 most capitalized stocks,
operate units across Africa. Guaranty Trust Bank, the West
African nation’s biggest lender by market value, owns units in
Gambia,  Sierra Leone ,  Ghana , Liberia,  Ivory Coast  and the U.K.
UBA, Nigeria’s fourth-biggest bank, has 15 of its 19 foreign
subsidiaries in Africa and expects them to contribute 25 percent
of its profit this year, Chief Executive Officer Phillips Oduoza
said on a conference call on July 18.  Zambia’s decision in January that foreign lenders must have
a capital base of $100 million affects Lagos-based UBA and
 Access Bank Plc (ACCESS) , which operate units in the southern African
country. Kenya, Ghana and Gambia have also increased minimum
 capital requirements  for foreign lenders in the past 12 months.  Banking Index  Zimbabwe is giving banks until the end of September to
increase their minimum capital to $100 million from $10 million
for investment banks and $12.5 million for commercial lenders,
central bank Governor Gideon Gono said today in Harare, the
capital.  Nasir Ramon Olanrewaju, a spokesman for UBA, said he had no
immediate comment on the Nigerian central bank decision and was
awaiting a “clarification” of the company’s position before
making a statement. Calls to the mobile phone of Lola Odedina, a
spokeswoman for Guaranty Trust Bank didn’t connect. Access Bank
spokesman, Olusegun Fafore, said he had no comment when
contacted on his mobile phone.  Guaranty Trust Bank gained for a second day, rising 1.2
percent to 17.30 naira in Lagos, the highest in more than a
week. UBA advanced 3.3 percent to 4.39 naira, the most gained in
two weeks. The Bloomberg Nigeria Banking Index, which has risen
27 percent this year, fell for a third day, down less than 0.1
percent to 348.32.  Host Country  “Nigerian banks with expansion ambitions will have to
appropriately assess the viability of the markets before opening
branches,”  Samir Gadio ,  emerging markets  strategist with
Standard Bank in London, said on July 27 in an e-mailed response
to questions. “Banks with a number of subsidiaries in sub-
Saharan Africa will need to evaluate those businesses and their
market outlook considering that the subsidiaries will have to
raise capital in the host country or offshore,” he said.  Zambia’s decision to raise the capital base for foreign
banks was probably the trigger for the Nigerian central bank
response, said Bunmi Asaolu, an analyst at FBN Capital in Lagos.
The rule may instead make local lenders acquisition targets as
the companies have to keep cash in Nigeria, he said. UBA will
seek a local banking license, which requires a lower capital
base of $20 million, to meet the requirements, Oduoza said.  Enormous Pressure  Nigeria’s central bank fired the chief executive officers
of eight of the country’s lenders and bailed them out with 640
billion naira ($4 billion) as a debt crisis caused by loans to
stock speculators and fuel importers threatened the industry in
2008 and 2009. Three were nationalized when regulators deemed
them unable to meet a recapitalization deadline and the rest
were taken over by new investors.  The requirement to increase funding for foreign units has
“exerted enormous pressure on the capital base of most parent
banks,” prompting the measures taken, the Abuja-based regulator
said. Lenders should consider alternatives including mergers and
acquisitions or sourcing of funds through  capital markets  and
private placements for their foreign units, the regulator said.  “Under no circumstance are parent banks allowed to
guarantee the deposits of their foreign subsidiaries,” the
central bank said in the statement on July 26.  “From a funding perspective and a risk perspective we
would see that as a much better and prudent approach to going
into a country,” Denzil De Bie, a director at  Fitch Ratings ,
said in a phone interview from London today. “It would remove
the temptation to grow for the sole purpose of expansion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net ;
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  