-- Nissan Sells $1.4 Billion of Auto ABS at Lowest Yield on Record
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-07-31T18:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/nissan-sells-1-4-billion-of-auto-abs-at-lowest-yield-on-record.html
Nissan Motor Co. sold $1.4 billion
of bonds tied to auto loans at the lowest rate ever as the
 Federal Reserve ’s efforts to spur economic growth reduce
borrowing costs.  The company issued the top-rated securities with an average
life of 1.49 years to yield 0.481 percent, the lowest financing
rate for an auto company in the asset-backed market on record,
according to data from  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the lead manager of the
transaction. Though spreads on the debt were narrower in 2006,
the higher lending benchmarks boosted the cost, the data show.  Issuance of asset-backed securities is surging as investors
seek out safe alternatives to Treasuries, which recently reached
record-low yields. Companies from Ford Motor Co. to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. have sold about $129 billion in asset-backed
securities linked to consumer and business borrowing this year,
with auto debt accounting for $62 billion, excluding today’s
sale, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Citigroup raised
its 2012 asset-backed forecast this month by about 50 percent to
$183 billion.  “We are seeing extraordinary demand for safe assets in the
face of broader market volatility,” Gerry Keefe, the New York-
based head of securitized products at Citigroup, said in a
telephone interview. “Demand is far outstripping supply.”  Treasury yields sank to record lows last week, with the 10-
year note falling as low as 1.379 percent on July 25 amid
concern that the  European debt crisis  was slowing the global
economy. The 30-year bond touched a record 2.44 percent July 26.  Haven Status  The Fed has kept its target rate for overnight loans
between banks at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008, and
said it expects to keep it “exceptionally low” through at
least late 2014.  Investors are snapping up bonds linked to auto loans with
delinquencies holding at less than 1 percent, according to
Moody’s Investors Service. Payments more than 60 days late from
borrowers with the best credit stood at 0.38 percent in May,
down from 0.88 percent a year earlier, the New York-based
ratings company said in a July 17 report.  “Consumer ABS has a growing safe haven,” status, said
John McElravey, an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co . based in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  Investors are wagering that U.S. households will stay
current on their bills with  confidence  among U.S. consumers
unexpectedly rising for the first time in five months in July,
according to the Conference Board. The New York-based private
research group’s index increased to 65.9 this month from 62.7 in
June, according to figures released today. Economists projected
a reading of 61.5, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey.  U.S. auto sales for June beat analysts’ estimates,
accelerating to a 14.1 million seasonally adjusted annualized
rate, researcher Autodata Corp. said in a July 3 statement. The
pace exceeded the average 13.8 million light-vehicle estimate of
15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  