-- Nomura Faces Penalties for Role in Insider Trading Scandal
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2012-07-31T09:53:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/nomura-faces-regulatory-penalties-for-inside-information-leaks.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ’s domestic
securities unit should be penalized after employees leaked
information about clients’ share sales,  Japan ’s financial
watchdog said following a probe into insider trading.  The Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission, which
is the investigative arm of Japan’s Financial Services Agency,
recommended that the regulator take unspecified disciplinary
action against the country’s biggest brokerage, the SESC said in
a statement in  Tokyo  today.  The announcement comes less than a week after the domestic
unit’s head was named to replace Chief Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe following Nomura’s acknowledgment that staff leaked
information on at least three share sales in 2010. The scandal
cost Nomura business managing bond and equity sales, adding
pressure on the bank after profit tumbled last quarter.  Nomura Securities Co. solicited clients by offering them
privileged information on companies, and failed to prevent
unfair trading before public offerings it managed, the
commission said. Koji Nagai, who oversees the division, is
poised to become CEO of the parent company tomorrow.  Financial Services Minister Tadahiro Matsushita said on
July 27 that the regulator will consider administrative action
against Nomura based on the SESC’s inspection and the company’s
internal review.  Stock Rally  Shares of Nomura rose 1.5 percent to close at 278 yen at in
Tokyo today before the watchdog’s statement. They have climbed
13 percent in the four trading days since news of the company’s
biggest management shakeup in 15 years emerged.  Watanabe and Chief Operating Officer Takumi Shibata will
step down today, the bank said on July 26. Atsushi Yoshikawa,
chief of U.S. operations, becomes COO.  Nomura said in June that employees provided information on
share sales it managed for  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , Inpex
Corp. and Tokyo Electric Power Co. to traders who short-sold the
stocks before the offerings were announced in 2010.  The bank may have given tips in more than the three cases
identified, an SESC official told reporters today, speaking on
condition of anonymity due to the commission’s policy. The
remarks echo Nomura’s statement last week that there are “high
possibilities” of other leaks having been made by employees to
clients.  Client Requests  A so-called Chinese wall at Nomura Securities meant to
separate sales from other divisions was inadequate, according to
the commission, which has been inspecting the unit since April.  Clients asked Nomura staff to provide advance notice of
changes to ratings of equities, and in some instances “sell
recommendations of individual stocks to hedge funds occurred at
a time prior to the public offerings,” Nomura said in a status
report on July 26. Some staff acted in a “suspicious” way by
frequently using private mobile phones, according to the report.  The regulator this month asked Nomura, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and 10 other brokerages to provide reports by Aug. 3 on how
they handle confidential information. FSA Minister Matsushita
today urged that the firms make the reports public.  Incoming CEO Nagai faces the challenge of reviving profit
and restoring confidence after clients dropped the company from
deals in the wake of the probe.  “Under the leadership of our new management team, the
entire firm is working to prevent a reccurrence of similar
violations,” Nomura said in a statement today.  State-owned  Development Bank  of Japan Inc. said on July 3
that it ditched Nomura as lead underwriter of a debt sale
because it wanted to avoid “any disruption.” Japan Airlines
Co. demoted Nomura as global coordinator of its initial public
offering, people with knowledge of the matter said July 18.  Cutting Costs  Nomura’s profit tumbled 89 percent to 1.9 billion yen
($24.3 million) in the three months ended June 30 as investment
banking fees and brokerage commissions fell, the company
reported last week. Watanabe implemented a $1.2 billion cost-
cutting program last year to restrain expenses that swelled
after his 2008 purchase of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s Asian
and European businesses.  SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. is the only brokerage that has
been punished for leaks so far in the  insider-trading  probe. The
unit of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc., Japan’s second-
biggest bank by market value, was handed a business improvement
order after the SESC found that 23 sales staff told clients
about an unidentified company’s plans to sell shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in 東京 at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  