-- North Africa Is Central Focus in Terror War, U.S. Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-07-31T18:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/north-africa-is-central-focus-in-terror-war-u-s-says.html
The Obama administration no longer
sees the greatest terrorist threats in  Afghanistan  or Pakistan.  Instead, U.S. counterterrorism officials are increasingly
focused on a broad swath of northern  Africa  from  Somalia  through
Chad, Niger and  Mali  to Mauritania and south into  Nigeria , said
three administration officials who work on the issue.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  today spotlighted the
growing threat of terrorism outside the  Middle East , and
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  begins a two-week trip to
Africa that includes stops in Senegal, South Sudan, Uganda,
Kenya, Malawi and  South Africa .  “We continue to be concerned about al-Qaeda’s presence in
Yemen, Somalia and North Africa,” Panetta said in Tunisia, his
first stop on a week-long trip expected to focus on the Middle
East. “For that reason, we strongly urge countries like Tunisia
to develop counter-terrorism operations that can yield
results.”  The region includes both populated areas and wild spaces
such as northern Mali, which one of the administration officials
compared to Afghanistan in the 1990’s before the overthrow of
the Taliban.  The intelligence reporting from the area, which comes from
the French foreign intelligence service, as well as the U.S.
Central Intelligence Agency and others, cites increasing
cooperation among radical Islamist groups, sizable supplies of
weapons looted from Libya and recruiting of locals by terrorist
groups such as al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb and Nigeria’s
Boko Haram.  ‘New Trend’  “This issue has raised a very high level of concern,”
said Republican Representative Mike Rogers of Michigan, chairman
of the House intelligence committee, in a telephone interview.
“We’ve seen these groups improve their organization and
capabilities, then be able to operationalize those capabilities.
This is a new trend.”  Recent White House meetings on counterterrorism have been
devoted almost entirely to northern Africa, protecting Nigerian
oil production and developing programs in local languages, with
Nigeria’s Ibo at the top of the list, according to the three
officials, who are participants.  “Africa is probably the most important continent in the
21st century for a lot of reasons, one of which is helping us
prevent terrorism from taking root in the continent,” said
 Johnny Isakson  of  Georgia , the ranking Republican on the Senate
Foreign Relations subcommittee on African affairs.  U.S. Report  “Terrorists take advantage of hunger and poverty,” he
said in a telephone interview. “There is a lot of that on the
African continent.”  The State Department’s annual report on global terrorism,
released today, said al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb,
historically the weakest of the central al-Qaeda group’s
affiliates, “saw its coffers filled in 2011 with kidnapping
ransoms.”  That financial muscle, along with the organization’s
efforts to exploit the instability in Libya and Mali, “have
raised concern about this group’s trajectory,” the report said.  “While not a formal al-Qaeda affiliate, elements of the
group known as Boko Haram launched widespread attacks across
Nigeria, including one in August against the United Nations
headquarters in Abuja, which signaled their ambition and
capability to attack non-Nigerian targets,” the report said.  Western Support  To counter the threat, the Obama administration, both
independently and in concert with France and other European
allies, has stepped up military and intelligence support and
training for African regimes threatened by Islamic extremism,
the U.S. officials said.  The U.S. has provided training and non-lethal equipment to
more than 215,000 peacekeepers from African militaries in 25
partner countries since 1997, according to U.S. Africa Command.  Still, the U.S. wants to help root out terrorist groups
quietly, without a large military footprint that could cause a
public backlash as the Pentagon faces budget cuts and withdraws
American troops from Afghanistan.  Throughout the entire African continent, the U.S. has no
more than 5,000 military personnel, including Defense Department
civilians, at any given time, said Eric Elliott, a spokesman for
the Africa Command, one of six regionally focused U.S. military
commands.  In one sign of U.S. and African reticence toward a visible
American presence, the headquarters of Africa Command isn’t even
in Africa. It’s in Stuttgart, Germany.  Covert Operations  “U.S. forces in Africa aren’t going to solve the problems
of these countries,” said Rick “Ozzie” Nelson, a senior
fellow for  homeland security  and counter-terrorism at the Center
for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. “It
needs to be done covertly and clandestinely and quietly. The
U.S. presence or any hint of it could go against the purpose of
being there and create a new generation of terrorists.”  Instead, the U.S. is funneling equipment and training to
help African forces combat groups such as al-Qaeda in the
Islamic Maghreb.  “We can help in terms of logistics, of some information
and intelligence sharing, of communications and a little bit of
mobility,” said Army General Carter Ham, the leader of Africa
Command, in a June 26 address to the Africa Center for Strategic
Studies, a Defense Department group, in Arlington, Virginia.  Hunting Kony  Last year, for example, the U.S. deployed about 100 special
operations troops to help advise four African nations in their
effort to hunt down  Joseph Kony , leader of the Lord’s Resistance
Army, a Ugandan guerrilla group who’s been indicted for  war
crimes .  “It is the  African Union  now increasingly taking a
leadership role, with a little bit of support from the  United
States  military,” Ham said in the speech.  Senator  Chris Coons , a Delaware Democrat and chairman of
the Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee on Africa, said the
low-key approach to fighting African terrorism is largely
working.  “I do think these areas of emerging threats are getting
the attention they need,” Coons said. “The U.S. is
appropriately looking for regional and African national allies
to take the lead. That’s as it should be.”  U.S. Boots  Even administration critics, such as Republican Senator Jim Inhofe of  Oklahoma , said more U.S. boots on the ground are not
the answer to fighting terrorism on the continent.  “If we can train the Africans, then when problems come up
we don’t have to send our kids over there,” said Inhofe, who
has traveled the continent extensively and pushed for creating
more indigenous military forces.  In small numbers, U.S. troops nonetheless play a role, even
without official recognition at times.  In war-torn Mali, three U.S. soldiers assigned to the
American Embassy in Bamako, the capital, were found dead after a
car crash on April 20, about a month after military aid was
suspended because of a coup by junior officers. The State
Department had halted foreign aid to the Malian government on
April 10.  For all the military and economic efforts, both public and
clandestine, officials such as Ham have warned of growing
threats from terrorist groups that are learning to “coordinate
and synchronize” their operations. Ham said al-Qaeda in the
Islamic Maghreb, al-Shabaab in Somalia and Boko Haram in Nigeria
are increasingly trying to work together.  Internal Targets  Rogers, the House intelligence committee chairman, said
such groups, which began with a focus on internal targets, are
becoming more sophisticated and looking to strike at Western
sites, while local security forces remain too weak to combat
them.  Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, which finances itself
largely through hostage taking and ransom payments, is now the
largest financial contributor to the remainder of the core al-
Qaeda leadership in  Pakistan  and its Yemen affiliate, Rogers
said. In return, the group has received training, advice and
expertise from Islamic militants in Pakistan and elsewhere, he
said.  In Nigeria, Boko Haram has been growing in size, reach and
lethality, said Amanda Dory, the deputy assistant secretary of
defense for African affairs, at the Africa Center for Strategic
Studies leadership seminar last month.  ‘Increasing Threat’  Boko Haram “has proven to be an increasing threat to the
security and stability of Africa’s most populous nation,” said
the Soufan Group, headed by former FBI counterterrorism expert
Ali Soufan, in a June 27 brief to clients. The State Department
added three of the group’s leaders to its list of Specially
Designated Global Terrorists on June 21.  Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, meanwhile, “has been an
unintended beneficiary of the fall of  Muammar Qaddafi ” in
Libya, the Soufan brief said.  “We see some worrying indicators that al-Qaeda and others
are seeking to establish a presence in Libya,” Ham said in his
speech.  “Africa is a perfect location for al-Qaeda to set up what
they once did in Afghanistan,” Isakson said. Assessing the U.S.
effort against terrorist groups on the continent, he said,
“You’re never satisfied, but I think we are making progress.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  