-- Northeast Utilities Falls on Lower Power Sales: Boston Mover
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-07-31T20:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/northeast-utilities-falls-on-lower-power-sales-boston-mover.html
Northeast Utilities (NU) , New England’s
largest utility owner, fell the most in two months after
declining electricity sales raised concerns about the company’s
growth potential.  Northeast Utilities declined 1.7 percent to $39.88 at the
close in  New York , the biggest drop since May 30.  The power company, which is based in Springfield,
 Massachusetts , and run from Hartford,  Connecticut , may face
limited long-term gains following its April 4 purchase of
Boston-based Nstar for $5.03 billion, Andrew Weisel, a New York
City-based utilities analyst with Macquarie Capital USA Inc.,
said in a research note today.  Northeast Utilities said electricity sales contracted 1
percent during the first half when adjusted for warmer than
average weather. Its power sales have declined 1.7 percent on
average for four years, Weisel said, and are expected to remain
unchanged going forward.  Northeast’s “weather-normalized growth seems to be
continuing its downward trend, which could have substantial
implications for the future of wholesale power markets in the
region,”  Paul Patterson , a New York City-based analyst with
Glenrock Associates LLC, said in an e-mail.  Northern Pass  The outlook for the company’s transmission unit also is
“increasingly uncertain,” Weisel says, given potential delays
to a proposed 180-mile (290-kilometer) transmission line
connecting Northeast Utilities customers to power producers in
 Quebec , Canada.  Northeast Utilities expects to secure right of way for 40
miles of the line in New Hampshire this quarter, so that
construction may begin and the line may go into service by the
end of 2016, Leon Olivier, the company’s executive vice-
president and chief operating officer, said during a quarterly
earnings webcast today.  Weisel expects the project to be delayed a year “given
push back and problems” in  New Hampshire  and predicts an “in-
service date of late 2017.”  Northeast Utilities today reported second-quarter net
income fell to $44.3 million, or 15 cents a share, from $77.3
million, or 44 cents, a year earlier.  Adjusted for one-time merger-related costs, earnings met
the 45-cent average of nine analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  