-- Now Germany Needs to Let Draghi Do ‘Whatever It Takes’
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-07-31T22:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/now-germany-needs-to-let-draghi-do-whatever-it-takes-.html
Did  Mario Draghi , president of the
 European Central Bank , announce a big change in monetary policy
in his widely reported speech last week? Or was he
misunderstood? The financial markets at first hailed a
breakthrough. Now doubts have set in.  We’ll know more after Thursday’s meeting of the ECB’s
governing council. The euro’s future may turn on what that body
decides. Draghi has raised expectations and it’s important that
he meets them. If he does, Europe will be taking a big step
toward recovery, albeit only one of many that will be needed
over the coming months and years.  If the markets decide his bold new departure meant nothing
after all, brace yourself.  Europe ’s financial crisis is about to
get worse.  Draghi’s pledge  that the ECB “is ready to do whatever
it takes to preserve the euro” seemed clear enough, and what
splendid news that was. Finally, the ECB is willing to act as
lender of last resort to Spain and other distressed sovereign
borrowers. Draghi wants to revive and extend the bank’s dormant
bond-buying program, and he’s pressing Europe’s governments to
let him get on with it.  The speech as a whole, though, was ambiguous and puzzling.
Parts were barely intelligible. You could read almost anything
into what Draghi said. Even the crucial phrase began with the
words “within our mandate.” That’s a problem. The ECB isn’t sure
from one day to the next what it is required or allowed to do,
and the euro area’s governments are divided on the point.  Political Cover  Still, Draghi was offering a rationale of sorts for the ECB
to step up its interventions and cap the  interest rate  that
struggling governments are forced to pay their lenders. With the
bank ready to act, the next thing was for euro-area governments
to decide they have the political cover they evidently think
they need, and choose to let it happen. In the first response to
Draghi’s comments, they seemed willing. The German chancellor,
 Angela Merkel , and  France ’s president,  Francois Hollande , made a
joint statement, which, though vague and noncommittal, read like
an endorsement. They, too, vowed to “do everything to protect
the euro area.”  Then the Bundesbank, the ECB’s biggest shareholder and an
important political actor in  Germany , said it remained opposed
to resuming large-scale bond purchases. Speaking for many fiscal
hardliners in Europe, the former guardian of the deutsche mark
thinks it’s vital to keep up the pressure on highly indebted
governments to cut their borrowing and reform their economies.  Europe’s limitless capacity for disagreement and
vacillation isn’t its biggest liability right now -- the
underlying fiscal problems are grave, and the single-currency
system has locked in huge disparities in competitiveness between
the core and periphery. But the deep confusion over what policy
makers intend sure isn’t helping.  This pattern keeps repeating. The recent summit meeting of
euro-area leaders made modest but useful progress. They decided
in principle they would work toward a so-called banking union,
and that help for distressed banks would go directly to
institutions rather than through governments (a change that
avoids adding to public debt). Good ideas. Financial markets
were thrilled. Almost immediately, governments undid the benefit
by disagreeing over what they’d agreed to do. Investors decided
nothing had changed, and borrowing costs in  Italy  and  Spain  --
critical indicators of the euro area’s prospects -- surged to
records.  In monetary policy, credibility is all, and that’s never
more true than when managing a crisis. Expectations can be
stabilizing or destabilizing, and the difference rests mainly on
whether government and  central bank  pronouncements are
understood and believed.  Harmful Squabbling  Doubts and disagreements can’t just be waved away, I know,
but at the very least Europe’s policy makers need to understand
the harm their squabbling is doing. Their failure to pull
together is making a bad situation much worse.  The cost isn’t limited to the immediate financial
consequences. A clear commitment that the ECB will intervene
with bond purchases -- “whatever it takes” -- can put a ceiling
on borrowing costs for Italy and Spain, and avoid their becoming
insolvent. That’s a necessary first step.  Beyond that, however, the euro area will need new fiscal
arrangements that balance pooling of risk, automatic fiscal
transfers when economies diverge, and strong incentives for
fiscal responsibility. There are many different ways of doing
this. A “fiscal union” could be more or less ambitious. As I’ve
previously argued, it needn’t mean more political integration
overall -- and it would be better if it didn’t.  Designing this new system won’t be easy, but the job will
be impossible without a renewed sense of solidarity. That’s the
biggest cost of the recent disarray over policy. The quarrelling
worsens the crisis, national resentments grow and the likelihood
of cooperation shrinks.  Berlin has a particular responsibility in all this -- not
least because Germany has gained so much, and has so much to
gain in the future, from the European economic project. Its
government, responding to domestic public opinion, is the main
defender of the view that the pressure must be maintained on
feckless countries such as  Greece  and Spain. Now that Draghi is
apparently ready to take bolder action, Merkel and her ministers
are the main obstacle to a more effective phase of ECB policy.  Germany’s government needs to tell itself, and the
country’s voters, that Europe’s distressed sovereign borrowers
have already tightened fiscal policy severely. To widely varying
degrees, Greece, Spain and the others have longer-term debt
problems that still need to be addressed, but in every case the
short-term fiscal squeeze has been ferocious. Remember, these
are economies in recession with very high  unemployment . The
 International Monetary Fund , as fiscally orthodox as they come,
just called on Spain to make its fiscal adjustment “less front
loaded.”  Germany wants Greece, Italy and Spain to suffer for their
lack of foresight? They already are. It wants them to change
their fiscal ways? They have. Enough is enough. Declare victory
for German standards of fiscal housekeeping, and let Draghi and
the ECB start doing what they should have been doing for months.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on demanding a compromise to
 stop the fiscal cliff  and on why  Thailand needs political
stability ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Mitt Romney ’s  stumbles over his
wealth ;  Amity Shlaes  on why the Fed should  stop sailing against
the wind ; Mikhail Chernov on the  benefits of Libor rigging ;
Richard Cohen on the drama of the  Olympic fencing duels ; Handel
Reynolds on the  politics of mammograms .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 