-- Obama’s New Iran Sanctions Target Energy, China, Iraq Banks
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-07-31T21:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/obama-s-new-iran-sanctions-target-energy-china-iraq-banks-1-.html
The U.S. announced new sanctions on
Iran’s energy and petrochemical sectors and on banks in  China 
and Iraq that have facilitated transactions on behalf of Iran,
steps that President  Barack Obama  said show the “growing
consequences” as Iran avoids its international obligations.  The moves were announced while Obama’s presidential
campaign rival, Republican  Mitt Romney , wrapped up an overseas
trip that included a stop in Israel, where Romney said he
supported the country’s use of “any and all measures” to stop
Iran’s nuclear arms program and suggested Obama hadn’t done
enough.  The sanctions also come as Congress is poised to give final
approval to Iran sanctions legislation.  Obama’s order expands sanctions to cover the purchase or
acquisition of Iranian petrochemical products; to cover entities
that provide material support to the National Iranian Oil Co.,
Naftiran Intertrade Co., or the Central Bank of  Iran ; and the
acquisition of U.S. bank notes or precious metals by Iran’s
government, the White House said in a statement released today.  The Treasury Department also imposed sanctions on Bank of
Kunlun in China and  Elaf Islamic Bank (BELF)  in Iraq.  David Cohen ,
undersecretary for terrorism and financial intelligence at the
Treasury Department, said the sanctioning “effectively cuts
them off” from the U.S. financial system and will impose a
“significant chilling effect” on the banks to operate
elsewhere in the world.  ‘Desperate’ Regime  “Today’s action makes it clear that we will expose any
financial institution, no matter where they are located, that
allows the increasingly desperate Iranian regime to retain
access to the international financial system,” Obama said in
the statement released by the White House.  Mark Dubowitz , executive director of the Foundation for
Defense of Democracies in Washington, said while the sanctions
are “important measures,” the U.S. approach “still involves a
game of Whac-A-Mole because the administration, in particular
Treasury, still has to chase down” each new Iranian move to
circumvent sanctions.  “I don’t think any of these sanctions so far have created
enough fear” to get Iran to stop pursuing a nuclear weapons
program, Dubowitz said. An alternative is to “blacklist
automatically any interaction with Iran’s energy sector” except
for those permitted under U.S. exemptions.  Proactive Stance  “Clearly, there’s a political angle to this,” Dubowitz
said. “The administration is trying to demonstrate it can be
proactive and not just reactive and blunt some of the criticism
from Romney and congressional Republicans.”  Ben Rhodes , Obama’s deputy national security adviser, said
the sanctions were being developed prior to Romney’s overseas
trip and that the timing of the announcement was coincidental.  U.S. sanctions are part of the international economic
pressures on Iran to give up suspected efforts to develop
nuclear weapons. Iran denies pursuing nuclear weapons ambitions
and says its nuclear program is for peaceful energy and medical
purposes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  