-- Obama Calls Monti to Stress Need for Decisive Action on Europe
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-07-31T23:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/obama-calls-monti-to-stress-need-for-decisive-action-on-europe.html
President  Barack Obama  called
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  to discuss the economic
situation in Europe and to express his concern about Syria,
according to a White House statement.  “Their conversation follows recent statements by European
officials regarding their commitment to preserve the euro,” the
statement said. “The president has been in regular contact with
Europe’s leaders on the state of the European economy, and today
he reiterated his support for decisive action to resolve the
crisis.”  Earlier today, Monti and French President  Francois Hollande 
issued a joint statement that they will do everything to protect
the “integrity” of the euro zone. After a working lunch in
Paris, the two European leaders said stability mechanisms agreed
to at a June 29 summit of European leaders should be made
operational as soon as possible.  Last night, Obama used similar language and said that
European leaders can forestall dissolution of the euro by taking
prompt, “decisive steps” to solve their debt crisis.  “I don’t think ultimately that the Europeans will let the
euro unravel, but they are going to have to take some decisive
steps,” Obama told a $40,000-per-plate fundraiser in  New York 
City. “And I am spending an enormous amount of time, trying to
work with them. The sooner that they take some decisive action,
the better off we are going to be.”  In his call to Monti, Obama also “expressed his concerns
about Syria and emphasized the need for close cooperation
between the U.S. and our European allies in pressuring the Assad
regime and supporting the Syrian people,” the White House
statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  