-- LogMeIn Must Face Revived Patent Suit by 01 Communique
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-07-31T20:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/logmein-must-face-revived-patent-suit-by-01-communique-2-.html
LogMeIn Inc. must face a patent-
infringement lawsuit filed by  01 Communique Laboratory Inc., (ONE)  a
U.S. appeals court ruled today. 01 Communique soared 44 percent,
while LogMeIn shares fell to the lowest in more than two years.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit  said  a
trial judge erred in his interpretation of a patent owned by 01
Communique and vacated a ruling that LogMeIn didn’t infringe the
patent. The case was sent back to the lower court for further
proceedings.  The appeals court, which specializes in  patent law , sided
with 01 Communique on how the patented invention works. 01
Communique filed the lawsuit in 2010, claiming Woburn,
Massachusetts-based LogMeIn infringed a patent related to a
method of providing remote access to a desktop computer. 01
Communique, based in Mississauga, Ontario, runs the “I’m
InTouch” remote access service.  The appeal turned on the question of whether the
intermediary between a personal computer and a remote computer
must be on a single server, as claimed by LogMeIn, or if it
could be on multiple server computers. U.S. District Judge
Claude Hilton in Alexandria,  Virginia , had said the patent was
limited to products on a single server, while LogMeIn’s software
uses multiple servers.  Multiple Computers  The Federal Circuit said the patent wasn’t limited to a
single server, and ruled instead it could comprise “one or more
computers.”  “We’re feeling this is a step in the right direction,”
Brian Stringer, 01 Communique’s chief financial officer, said in
a telephone interview.  The company spent more than $30 million to develop its
product, and serves mostly small and medium-sized companies, he
said. A suit against  Citrix Systems Inc. (CTXS)  over the same patent
has been on hold while the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office took
a second look at it. Stringer said the examiner upheld the
patent, and Citrix is challenging that decision.  In a statement, LogMeIn said it “continues to believe that
it has strong defenses to the claims made by 01 Communique and
intends to vigorously defend against these claims.”  01 Communique rose 37 Canadian cents to C$1.22 in Toronto.
LogMeIn dropped $5.44, or 22 percent, to $18.95 in Nasdaq Stock
market trading of 3.8 million shares, or more than 10 times the
three-month daily average.  The case is 01 Communique Laboratory Inc. v. LogMeIn Inc.,
2011-1403, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
( Washington ). The lower court case is 01 Communique Laboratory
Inc. v.  LogMeIn Inc. (LOGM) , 10cv1007, U.S. District Court for the
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  