-- Crude Oil Rises, Set for First Monthly Advance in Three
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-07-31T12:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/oil-set-for-first-monthly-gain-in-three-as-central-banks-to-meet.html
Oil in  New York  headed for the first
monthly increase since April before meetings of central bank
policy makers to discuss the economy and a report tomorrow that
may show U.S. crude stockpiles declined.  Futures were little changed after advancing as much as 0.6
percent. The  European Central Bank  and the U.S. Federal Reserve
hold meetings this week, with ECB President  Mario Draghi  having
pledged on July 26 to preserve the euro. U.S. crude inventories
probably dropped  1.1 million barrels  last week, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before Energy Department data tomorrow.
 Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  said it won’t restart an oil pipeline to Midwest
refineries that leaked until at least tomorrow.  “Crude futures are taking their cue from the broader
market,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in
 London , who predicts New York oil will remain in a range from
$84 to $93 a barrel. “Euro zone policy makers are still
boosting sentiment this side of the Atlantic by reiterating
their commitment to the single currency union.”  Crude for September delivery was at $90.07 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , 29 cents
higher, at 1:39 p.m. London time. The contract yesterday slid
0.4 percent to $89.78, the lowest close since July 26. Prices
have climbed 6 percent this month and dropped 9 percent this
year.  Brent oil for September settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange traded little changed at $106.27 a
barrel. The European benchmark crude was at a $16.20 premium to
New York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade. The spread was
$16.42 yesterday, the widest in almost 10 weeks.  Moving Average  Oil in New York has long-term technical support along its
50-month moving average at $84.25 a barrel, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures settled above this indicator at
the end of May and June. Buy orders tend to be clustered near
chart-support levels.  Crude fell for the first time in five days yesterday as
economic confidence in the euro area decreased. An index of
executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-nation euro area slid
to 87.9 in July from 89.9 in June, the European Commission in
Brussels said. That’s the lowest since September 2009.  The European Union accounted for 16 percent of global oil
demand last year, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s annual Statistical
Review of World Energy.  The U.S. Federal Reserve Open Market Committee meets for
two days starting today. The ECB’s Governing Council and the
Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee will convene Aug. 2.  Fuel Supplies  Gasoline stockpiles in the U.S., the world’s largest oil
consumer, were probably unchanged in the seven days ended July
27 after rising to 210 million barrels, according to the median
estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Refineries are expected to have kept operating rates near a
five-year high, the survey showed. Crude runs probably averaged
92.5 percent of capacity last week, from 93 percent in the prior
period. Rates dropped to as low as 81.8 percent in January.  The  American Petroleum Institute  in  Washington  will release
separate inventory data today. The industry group collects
stockpile information on a voluntary basis from operators of
refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The government
requires that reports be filed with the Energy Department for
its weekly survey.  Enbridge shut its Line 14, which runs from Superior,
 Wisconsin , to Griffith/Hartsdale in  Indiana , after the 317,600
barrel-a-day link leaked on July 27. The line could return to
service Aug. 1 at the earliest after repairs, Ed Culhane, a
spokesman for the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources,
said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  