-- Oil Trades Near Two-Week Low on Manufacturing Slowdown
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-08-01T06:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/oil-declines-for-a-third-day-as-fed-may-forgo-stimulus.html
Oil traded near the lowest level in
more than two weeks in New York as concern that central banks
won’t act to stimulate a slowing global economy outweighed signs
of shrinking supplies.  Futures were little changed after earlier falling 0.6
percent as measures of manufacturing in  China  and  Australia 
weakened. The U.S. Federal Reserve will forgo announcing a third
round of asset purchases after a two-day meeting ends today,
according to 88 percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. European Central Bank policy makers meet tomorrow. U.S.
crude stockpiles shrank  11.6 million barrels  last week, the most
since September 2008, the  American Petroleum Institute  said.  “The initial knee-jerk reaction will be to slowing
manufacturing in China,” said  Victor Shum , the managing
director of IHS Consulting in  Singapore . “But that means the
policy makers in Beijing will need to step up measures to
stimulate the economy. Prices are still down because the top
issues remain concern that the Fed and ECB won’t do anything
substantial.”  Crude for September delivery was at $88.03 a barrel, down 3
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 2:17 p.m. Singapore time. The contract yesterday decreased
$1.72 to $88.06, the lowest close since July 13. Prices are 11
percent lower this year.  Brent oil for September settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $104.70 a barrel, down 22 cents.
The European benchmark crude was at a premium of $16.67 to New
York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade. The spread was $16.86
yesterday, the widest since May.  Manufacturing Outlook  Oil’s decline may accelerate in  New York  as an indicator
known as the moving average convergence-divergence falls below
its signal line for the first time in seven weeks, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors tend to sell contracts on
a so-called bearish MACD crossover. Futures have technical
support around $85.85 a barrel, where the 50-day moving average
coincides with the middle Bollinger Band.  A purchasing managers’ index in China, the world’s second-
biggest oil consumer, fell to 50.1 in July, the lowest reading
in eight months, data from the Beijing-based National Bureau of
Statistics and the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
showed today. That’s below a median estimate of 50.5 in a
Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists. A reading above 50
signals an expansion and below 50 a contraction.  “The PMI is below market expectations,” said  Selena Ling ,
head of treasury research and strategy at Oversea-Chinese
Banking Corp. in Singapore. “This suggests the Chinese growth
slowdown will extend. This, coupled with the other dovish global
economic signals, could keep  oil prices  somewhat subdued.”  HSBC Index  A separate purchasing managers’ index released today by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics indicated that China’s
manufacturing contracted at a slower pace in July. The gauge,
which covers more than 420 companies and is weighted toward
smaller businesses, rose to 49.3 from 48.2 in June, after a
preliminary reading of 49.5 released last week.  A measure of Australian manufacturing slid 6.9 points to
40.3, the weakest since June 2009 and the fifth drop in six
months, the Australian Industry Group and PricewaterhouseCoopers
said in a survey today.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  reduced its
forecasts for West Texas and Brent for the third and fourth
quarters, citing concerns over the short-term demand outlook in
China and European instability. The bank cut its estimate for
New York crude in the three months ending Sept. 30 by 3.1
percent to $93 a barrel, according to an e-mailed note today.  Crude Stockpiles  Oil output from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries fell a second month in July as Iranian production
shrank to a 22-year low, according to a Bloomberg News survey.
Output dropped 393,000 barrels, or 1.2 percent, to an average
31.165 million barrels a day from 31.558 million in June, the
survey of  oil companies , producers and analysts showed. It was
the second monthly decline after daily production reached 31.62
million barrels in May, the highest since October 2008.  Crude stockpiles in the U.S., the largest oil consumer,
slid to 369.7 million barrels last week, the industry-funded API
said yesterday. The Energy Department may say today that
supplies fell 1 million barrels to 379.1 million, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline inventories decreased 1.3
million barrels, according to the API. The government report may
show supplies rose  800,000 barrels .  “I would have anticipated the API data to be supportive
but let’s see what the Energy Department report shows,” said
 Jonathan Barratt , the chief executive officer of Barratt’s
Bulletin, a commodity-markets newsletter in Sydney. “The focus
still remains on what the Fed and ECB will do.”  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  