-- Oil Falls on Speculation Fed to Forgo Stimulus
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-07-31T20:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/oil-falls-on-speculation-fed-to-forgo-stimulus.html
Oil fell for a second day on
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will be less likely to announce
additional measures to stimulate the economy after U.S.  consumer
confidence  and business activity unexpectedly grew.  Crude reduced the biggest monthly gain since February as a
Bloomberg survey of economists showed the Fed will probably
forgo a third round of large-scale asset purchases at a two-day
meeting beginning today. Consumer confidence rose for the first
time in five months in July and a barometer of business activity
increased at a faster pace.  “Some of the hopes for Fed easing have gone out of the
market and that’s why you are seeing the selloff,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge
fund that focuses on energy. “A lot of the recent rally was
solely built upon monetary easing. With the slightly improved
economic data, the Fed might not see the urgency that it did.”  Oil for September delivery fell $1.72, or 1.9 percent, to
settle at $88.06 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Prices climbed 3.6 percent this month and declined 11 percent
this year.  Crude, which touched $87.31 in electronic trading after the
settlement, pared losses following an American Petroleum
Institute report that oil  inventories  tumbled 11.6 million
barrels last week to 369.7 million, in the biggest one-week
decline since Sept. 5, 2008.  September futures dropped $1.91, or 2.1 percent, to $87.87
a barrel at 4:51 p.m. in electronic trading. Prices were at
$87.47 before the report was released at 4:30 p.m.  Brent crude  for September settlement decreased $1.28, or
1.2 percent, to $104.92 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange.  U.S. Economy  The Conference Board’s confidence  index  increased to 65.9
this month from 62.7 in June, figures from the New York-based
private research group showed today. Economists projected a
reading of 61.5, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey.  Business activity in the U.S. grew at a faster pace in July
as the economy weathered a slowdown in hiring and household
spending. A barometer from the Institute for Supply Management-
 Chicago  Inc. increased to 53.7 from 52.9 in June. Readings
greater than 50 signal growth. A Bloomberg survey projected the
purchasing managers’ gauge would decline to 52.5.  Fed’s Options  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said July 17 that the central
bank was studying options for further easing of monetary policy.  “If we don’t get anything from the Fed, we’ll be under
pressure,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Oil continues to
consolidate around $90, and it’s going to need some fairly
significant stimulus measures to trigger another rally.”  Eighty-eight percent of economists in the Bloomberg survey
said the  Federal Open Market Committee  will refrain from
starting new purchases. Forty-eight percent say the Fed’s
policy-making committee will announce plans to buy $600 billion
in housing and government debt at its Sept. 12-13 meeting,
according to the July 25-27 survey of 58 economists.  Bernanke said during testimony to the Senate Banking
Committee July 17 that easing tools include further purchases of
assets, such as mortgage-backed securities, reducing the
interest rate that the Fed pays on reserves banks keep with the
Fed, and altering its communications on the outlook for  interest
rates .  The central bank bought a total of $2.3 trillion in bonds
from December 2008 to June 2011 to stimulate the economy in two
rounds of asset purchases known as quantitative easing.  Equities Drop  Crude followed U.S. stocks lower. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index slid 0.4 percent.  “Oil is taking its cue from the equity market,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com
in Chicago. “We have Fed announcement tomorrow and people are
not putting on big positions.”  Oil also declined as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
coalition rejected granting the permanent euro rescue fund
access to European Central Bank liquidity via a banking license.
France and Italy are building support for such a plan as part of
efforts to stem Europe’s debt crisis.  The German Finance Ministry in Berlin said it saw no need
for any such move in an e-mailed response to questions.  “We’re down on concerns about Europe,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in
Winchester,  Massachusetts . “Prices were elevated on optimism
that additional stimulus was on the way. The Germans have thrown
a wet blanket on those hopes.”  Inventory Survey  U.S. oil  supplies  probably fell for the fifth time in six
weeks as refinery operations stayed near a five-year high and
imports declined, a Bloomberg survey showed. Stockpiles
decreased 1 million barrels, or 0.3 percent, to 379.1 million in
the seven days ended July 27, according to the median of 12
analyst estimates before an Energy Department report tomorrow.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 478,626
contracts as of 4:51 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 390,132
contracts yesterday, 30 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.4 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  