-- Hollande’s Budget to Test Bond Market Armistice: Euro Credit
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-07-31T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/hollande-s-budget-to-test-bond-market-armistice-euro-credit.html
Investors who bestowed record-low
borrowing costs on France will find out if their fidelity is
warranted when President  Francois Hollande  presents his 2013
budget next month.  As Hollande’s government prepares today to leave on a two-
week summer break, his deficit-cutting promises and the market’s
hunger for yield are helping French bonds beat their European
AAA counterparts. They returned 3.4 percent in July, more than
double  Germany ’s 1.4 percent, becoming the region’s best
performers after Belgian securities.  “An armed peace is a good way to describe the situation,”
said Philippe d’Arvisenet, global economist at Paris-based BNP
Paribas SA. “No one sees France defaulting, and markets trust
the government. They’re willing to wait and see if it will stay
on track with its deficit promises in the 2013 budget plan. If
the government doesn’t present something credible, yields will
go higher.”  Hollande’s 2 ½-month-old Socialist government has been
rewarded even though its deficit-cutting efforts have focused
more on raising taxes than capping public spending. The extra
yield investors demand for holding 10-year French debt relative
to German bunds fell to 80 basis points from 112 on July 5, when
the  European Central Bank  lowered its deposit rate to zero.  “Semi-core bonds have done well on the back of the deposit
rate cut and a hunt for yield,” said  Richard McGuire , a fixed-
income strategist at Rabobank International in  London . “That
benefits French and Belgian bonds.”  Draghi’s Help  The rally in French bonds may peter out later this year as
Hollande faces the real test of his deficit-cutting resolve when
his government presents its first full-year budget in late
September. The yield on 10-year French bonds may rise to 3.05
percent by end-December from 2.13 percent now, according to the
median forecast of six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  In the near term, French bonds, or OATs as they are called
for their French acronym, may gain even as their safe-haven
status is dented when ECB President  Mario Draghi  unveils his
plan to ease borrowing costs in  Spain  and  Italy .  Draghi sparked a global market rally last week by pledging
to do whatever it takes to preserve the euro. He is trying to
build consensus among governments and central bankers before ECB
policy makers convene tomorrow.  “Since France is the most exposed country to peripheral
bonds in terms of the banking sector, France will benefit
because it brings more home in terms of liquidation of
peripheral investments and repatriation into OATs,” Rabobank’s
McGuire said.  Credit Rating  French banks had $534 billion in public and private debt
holdings in Italy, Spain,  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland at the
end of March, the most for any country,  Bank for International
Settlements  figures show. France was stripped of its AAA rating
by Standard & Poor’s in January.  Whatever aid is given to Spain and Italy, “I doubt it will
markedly affect demand for French bonds,” said Christoph Kind,
head of  asset allocation  at  Frankfurt Trust. (FMMFNDS)  “Demand for safety
is likely to stay strong. And if the new measure is indeed a
game changer as expected by the market, it should benefit the
euro and that should be good for France as well.”  Draghi’s pledge came after the yields of Spanish and
Italian securities soared and fueled speculation the monetary
union could fall apart. The Spanish 10-year yield jumped to 7.5
percent and comparable Italian yields approached 7 percent.  Safe Haven  “People are still concerned about the French budget, but
more negative headlines seem to come out of Spain than France,”
Kind said. “The market now makes a clear distinction between
the core countries, which includes semi-core like  France  and
 Belgium , and the periphery.”  With a ratio of debt to gross domestic product about 30
percentage points higher than France’s, Italy’s battle is a
tougher one. Recessions in Italy and Spain shrink their tax
base, feeding a “vicious circle” that’s accelerating the
increase in its cost of borrowing, BNP’s d’Arvisenet said.  By contrast, Hollande’s commitment to focus on deficit and
debt reduction worked pre-emptively on markets, averting a focus
on “putting out fires,” he said.  Since his May election, Hollande has relentlessly
reiterated his commitment to cut the nation’s debt and deficit,
saying they erode France’s ” sovereignty .” He has kept former
President Nicolas Sarkozy’s target of cutting the deficit to 4.5
percent of gross domestic product this year and 3 percent next
year from 5.2 percent in 2011.  Effort Needed  In his televised Bastille Day interview on July 14,
Hollande said that ”efforts” and ”patriotism” are required.
His plan calls for state spending cuts and higher taxes for the
wealthy and for  CAC 40 companies .  The proposals come as France’s economy,  Europe ’s second-
largest, probably contracted in the second quarter for the first
time since 2009 and with the jobless rate at a 13-year high.  “The danger for France is that it lets itself be blinded
by its honeymoon period and forgets that it must go the extra
mile on reforms,” said  Bruno Cautres , a political analyst at
Cevipof, a research center in Paris.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  