-- Holyfield Sells Gloves From Tyson Ear-Bite Fight After Home Sale
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-07-31T15:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/holyfield-sells-gloves-from-tyson-ear-bite-fight-after-home-sale.html
Evander Holyfield is selling the
boxing gloves from the heavyweight bout in which  Mike Tyson  bit
off part of his ear, auctioning medals, championship belts and
other memorabilia after losing his home to foreclosure.  Holyfield’s bronze medal from the 1984 Olympics also will
be included in the sale, according to an e-mailed statement from
the  Beverly Hills , California-based  Julien’s Auctions , which is
handling the transactions.  Holyfield, 49, moved out of his 109-room home in Fairburn,
 Georgia , this month after it was sold for $7.5 million in a
March foreclosure auction, according to the New York Daily News.
He owed more than $14 million on the house, the  newspaper said ,
and owes in excess of $372,000 in child support, according to
Yahoo. He’s earned around $250 million during his career, Yahoo
said.  Holyfield is 44-10-2 in his professional career, with 29
victories coming via knockout. He won titles in both the
cruiserweight and heavyweight divisions, with victories over
Tyson,  George Foreman , Larry Holmes and Riddick Bowe. He last
fought in July 2011, when he beat Brian Nielsen in 10 rounds.  In June 1997, Tyson and Holyfield met in  Las Vegas  for a
rematch of their 1996 fight, when Holyfield won Tyson’s World
Boxing Association heavyweight title. Known as the “Bite
Fight,” Tyson was disqualified in the third round after he bit
off a piece of Holyfield’s right ear.  The auction also include over 20 pairs of fight-worn
gloves, robes and trunks; championship rings and belts; and
autographed posters, according to the release.  The auction, which has over 500 items, also includes parts
of Holyfield’s life outside of boxing, including furniture,
clothing, jewelry and his red 1962 Chevrolet Corvette.  The items will be sold in two sessions on Nov. 30. Bidders
can participate in person, online or over telephone, according
to the statement  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  