-- Olympians Hanging Up Cleats Risk Drug Addict-Like Ills
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-07-31T22:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/olympians-hanging-up-cleats-risk-drug-addict-like-ills.html
Message to Olympians: be careful what
you wish for. Going for gold can trigger a bad case of the blues
-- or worse.  Research shows intensive exercise is as addictive as heroin,
putting retiring Olympians at risk of depression. A third of
elite athletes have an unhealthy preoccupation with training,
scientists in  Melbourne  found in a study published in March. And
the biological mechanisms of this so-called exercise dependence
tend to mimic those involved in drug addiction, researchers at
 Tufts University  in Boston said. Anxiety and depression may
ensue when exercise stops, according to the Tufts study.  The findings add to a growing body of evidence that sheds
light on why athletes may be more prone to substance abuse,
eating disorders and suicide than the general population, and
why they might require help adjusting after years spent engaged
in relentless sports training.  “A lot of retired athletes report fairly significant
mental health concerns and an increased level of substance
dependence,” said Frances Quirk, co-editor-in-chief of the
journal  Performance Enhancement & Health . “There are other
factors that contribute to that in terms of pressure, isolation
and competition, but there is a biological story.”  While scientists have understood for several years the
addictive nature of exercise, what hasn’t been appreciated until
now is the degree to which curtailing training can lead to drug-
like withdrawal symptoms.  Olympics Let-Down  “No one wants to talk about it, no one wants to retire,
and no one wants to think about the end,” said  Nicole Detling ,
a visiting professor at the University of Utah College of Health
and a sport psychology consultant for the U.S. Speed Skating
team and the U.S. Ski and Snowboard Association.  “We call it the post-Olympics let-down,” she said.
“Within the time period following the Olympics, even those
who’ve medaled have this period of time where if they were
checked for depression, they’d be diagnosed.”  To address those concerns,  Australia  will hold seminars
nationwide for its athletes retiring after the London Olympics
to help them cope with the transition, said Nathan Price, a
consultant with the  Australian Sports Commission  in Canberra.  Like a Pill  Meantime, the evidence continues to mount that intensive
training can have unforeseen consequences. A study of 234 elite
adult athletes in Australia showed 35 percent probably had
exercise dependence where they perceived severe physical, mental
and social consequences if they didn’t train. The study, by
Justin McNamara and Marita McCabe at Melbourne’s Deakin
University, was published in March in the Journal of Sports
Sciences, and followed research in competitive runners in the
U.S. in 2010 and triathletes in  Hong Kong  in 2002 that found
more than half had compulsive-exercise tendencies.  “Exercise can be like a pill,” said  David Bentley , a
triathlete who teaches exercise physiology at the University of
Adelaide. “It does similar things chemically to a number of
different systems in the body, and if you exercise all the time,
your body will change almost like it does in response to some
pharmacological interventions.”  Regular exercise has long been known to benefit those
people with a predisposition for depression. Prolonged jogging
raises people’s spirits with the release of endorphins, the
body’s own opioids, scientists in  Germany  found in 2008. The
research showed that jogging not only produces a so-called
 runner’s high , it can also relieve pain.  Additionally, the same brain receptors activated by
marijuana may also play a major role in generating reward from
high-intensity endurance running, David Raichlen and colleagues
at the University of  Arizona  said in a  study in April .  Heroin-Like Addiction  Taken to extremes, physical activity can transition into
addictive-like behavior and interfere with the normal functions
of life, Robin B. Kanarek at colleagues in the department of
psychology at Tufts University found. Their research on lab rats
found exercise increases the production of endorphins, which
have a similar activity in the brain to chronic administration
of opiates, such as morphine and heroin.  Both running and drugs tap a reward system in the brain
involving dopamine, according to their research, which was
published in the journal  Behavioral Neuroscience  in 2009. When
the reward pathway is blocked by an opiate antidote, exercising
rats become withdrawn in a sign of depression, the authors said.  ‘Burn Out’  Similarly, the mental health of athletes who stop rigorous
training through injury or retirement may also suffer, said
Quirk, who is an associate professor in psychology at James Cook
University in Townsville, Australia.  “The connection makes total sense,” said Gaylene Clews, a
sports psychologist in Canberra who was the world champion
female triathlete in 1985. “They have now put the science
behind what those of us who have been working in the industry
have known for the past two decades. We call it burn out.”  Seven-times Olympic medalist and former world record holder
Amanda Beard, 30, told in a  memoir  released in April how her
swimming career was troubled by clinical depression, sometimes
manifesting in bulimia and drug and alcohol abuse.  Australian Geoff Huegill, 33, took drugs, suffered
depression, gained 45 kilograms (100 pounds) and contemplated
suicide following his retirement from swimming after the 2004
Athens Olympics, the eight times world record holder  recalled .  Elite Role  O.J. Murdock, a wide receiver for the  Tennessee Titans  who
failed to report to training camp last week, died of what
appears to be a self-inflicted gunshot wound, police said on
July 30. The 25-year-old had spent last season on injured
reserve after damaging his right Achilles tendon. A year ago,
Olympic skier Jeret Peterson committed suicide a week after
pleading not guilty to a drunken driving charge in Hailey,  Idaho .  “They have been on center stage and have had a lot of
adulation,” said Jayashri Kulkarni, director of the Monash
Alfred Psychiatry Research Centre in Melbourne. “The more
‘real’ and grounded the person is, the easier they can step out
of the elite role to see it for what it is and have a structure
to fall back on.”  Anxiety disorders aren’t unusual among high-performance
athletes, Valentin Markser, a psychiatrist in the German city of
Koln, estimated in a  review article  last year.  Twenty percent of female and 7.7 percent of male
professional athletes from  Norway , as well as 60 percent of
female gymnasts with normal weight have been diagnosed with an
eating disorder, he said. In other sports, exhaustion-linked
depression was noted in 60 percent of long-distance runners and
half of basketball players at least once in their sporting
careers, he said.  ‘Not That Good’  The chemical impact from physical wear and tear, which
increases inflammation, may worsen the problem, according to
Quirk at James Cook University. Pro-inflammatory molecules may
act on receptors in the brain, triggering depression and more
severe forms of mental illness, she said.  “Being an elite athlete is actually not that good for your
health,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  