-- Home Prices in U.S. Fell Less Than Forecast in Year to May
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-07-31T13:28:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/home-prices-in-u-s-fell-less-than-forecast-in-year-ended-may.html
Residential real estate prices
declined less than forecast in the year ended May, another sign
that the housing market is on the mend.  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values in 20 cities
decreased 0.7 percent from May 2011, the smallest 12-month fall
since September 2010, after dropping 1.8 percent in the year
ended April, the group said today in  New York . The median
forecast of 29 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  projected a
1.4 percent fall.  Stabilizing prices could help drive a housing market that’s
starting to recover three years after the end of the recession.
Federal Reserve policy makers have said residential construction
is a bright spot in the recovery even as unemployment remains a
concern to households.  “This is great news that certainly bucks the trend of
other data that points to an economy that’s slowing,” said
Ellen Zentner, a senior U.S. economist at Nomura Securities
International Inc. in New York. “It’ll be a salve for a lot of
U.S. households if we continue to see price gains in housing.”  Consumer spending  stagnated in June as Americans used the
biggest gain in incomes in three months to boost savings,
indicating a weak handoff to the second half of the year,
figures from the Commerce Department also showed today.
Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the
economy, were unchanged after a 0.1 percent decrease the prior
month that was previously reported as little changed.  Stock Futures  Stock-index futures were little changed after the reports.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in
September fell less than 0.1 percent to 1,379.4 at 9:24 a.m. in
New York.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from declines of
0.8 percent to 2.6 percent. The Case-Shiller index is based on a
three-month average, which means the May data was influenced by
transactions in April and March.  Home prices  adjusted for seasonal variations  increased  0.9
percent in May from a month earlier. Unadjusted prices climbed
2.2 percent in May as all 20 cities showed gains.  “We need to remember that spring and early summer are
seasonally strong buying months, so this trend must continue
throughout the summer and into the fall,”  David Blitzer ,
chairman of the S&P index committee, said in a statement. “The
housing market seems to be stabilizing, but we are definitely in
a wait-and-see mode for the next few months.”  Better Gauge  The year-over-year gauge provides better indications of
trends in prices, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller group. The
panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who
created the index.  Twelve of the 20 cities in the index showed a year-over-
year gain, led by a 12 percent increase in Phoenix.  Atlanta led declines, with a 15 percent drop.  There were 2.39 million existing homes for sale in June,
down from an average supply of 2.93 million in 2011 and 3.22
million in 2010, data from the National Association of Realtors
show.  The same NAR report indicated the median price of an
existing home climbed 7.9 percent to $189,400 last month, the
biggest gain since February 2006.  Fiscal Cliff  Companies such as  Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY)  are concerned the so-
called fiscal cliff at year’s end -- when tax cuts on wages,
 capital gains , dividends and estates are scheduled to lapse --
as well as longer-term domestic fiscal policy will hurt growth.  “The good news for us this year is that the housing market
seems to be shaking off that concern at this point in time,”
Daniel Fulton, Weyerhaeuser’s president and chief executive
officer, said on a July 27 earnings call. “We’re encouraged,
but I think we still have a confidence issue to deal with among
home buyers and the general public because it not only affects
homes sales, it affects retail sales and overall employment.”  Borrowing costs remain attractive. The  average rate  on a
30-year fixed loan dropped to 3.49 percent last week, the lowest
in data going back to 1972, according to  Freddie Mac .  Federal Reserve policy makers, led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , meet this week to discuss whether further measures are
needed to boost growth and push down an  unemployment rate  that’s
been stuck above 8 percent for 41 consecutive months -- the
longest stretch in the post-World War II era.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  