-- Honda Motor Profit Misses Analyst Estimates on Yen, Expenses
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-07-31T06:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/honda-motor-profit-misses-analyst-estimates-on-yen-expenses-1-.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,  Japan ’s third-
largest carmaker, reported first-quarter profit that missed
analysts’ estimates after the yen strengthened and the company
increased marketing spending to sell outgoing models.  Net income  was 131.7 billion yen ($1.7 billion) in the
three months ended June 30, Honda said in a statement today.
That missed the 150.7 billion yen average of seven analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Except for Japan, earnings from
all of Honda’s main regions were below expectations.  Honda, which joins Nissan Motor Co. in reporting profit
that trailed analysts’ projections, increased spending on
incentives in the U.S. by 31 percent last quarter, the most
among major Japanese carmakers, according to Autodata Corp. The
yen appreciated the most among major global currencies in the
same period, cutting the value of overseas sales.  “Honda has been spending a lot on marketing the vehicle,
so the costs may not have completely been covered by the sales
volume,” said Kunihiko Shiohara, a Tokyo-based auto analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG. “The strong yen continues to weigh down
on Honda’s earnings, and what will be important for Honda is to
make up for it by gaining volume in sales and cutting costs.”  Honda shares rose 2.1 percent to 2,551 yen at the close of
trading in  Tokyo  before the earnings announcement.  Operating Profit  Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, jumped to 176 billion yen, though it
missed the 212.4 billion yen average analyst estimate. Sales
gained 42 percent to 2.44 trillion yen, also missing estimates.  Honda kept its full-year financial forecasts unchanged. The
automaker is targeting full-year sales of 10.3 trillion yen and
record deliveries of 4.3 million vehicles, according to the
company. The company is setting its forecasts based on exchange
rates of 80 yen to the dollar and 105 yen to the euro.  The yen gained 3.9 percent versus the dollar in the April
to June period, and 9.4 percent against the euro, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gains in the Japanese currency reduce the repatriated value
of overseas earnings.  The Japanese currency traded at 78.23 yen
against the dollar today.  Global Output  Honda’s operating profit from  North America  rose fourfold
to 82.2 billion yen from 18.5 billion yen a year earlier. That
missed the 105.2 billion yen average estimate of three analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  In Japan, the company posted a 61 billion yen operating
profit after reporting a 45.9 billion yen loss a year earlier.
The average analyst estimate was for a 46.1 billion yen profit.
 Asia , excluding Japan, contributed 31.8 billion yen in operating
income, lower than the 35.6 billion yen average analyst
estimate.  Europe  posted an unexpected loss of 7.63 billion yen,
compared with the average analyst projection for a 3.5 billion
yen profit. The region had a 6.1 billion yen loss a year
earlier.  In the first quarter, Honda’s U.S. sales gained 27 percent
to 380,817 units, according to the Tokyo-based carmaker. The
carmaker increased its market share 0.9 percentage point to 10
percent in the same period, according to industry researcher
Autodata Corp.  In Japan, the Honda N Box, on sale since December, was the
most popular minicar model for a third month in June, according
to the Japan Mini Vehicles Association. The carmaker this month
introduced a variant of the N Box to cater to increasing demand
for more fuel-efficient models.  Honda boosted sales in  China  by 75 percent to 178,887 units
in June as Japanese automakers rebounded from the earthquake and
tsunami in Japan a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  