-- Londoners Quit Roads as Tube Bears Burden of Olympic Crowds
-- B y   E l e a n o r   L a w r i e ,   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a   a n d   R o x a n a   Z e g a
-- 2012-07-31T15:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/londoners-quit-roads-as-tube-bears-burden-of-olympic-crowds-1-.html
Roads in central  London  are carrying
one-fifth fewer vehicles as Olympic-only “Games Lanes” push more
people to use rail services. The morning rush was hindered by a
fire alert on a subway line to the Olympic Park and high-speed
“Javelin” shuttle trains suffered disruption in the afternoon.  While the number of inner-London road users is 20 percent
below the norm, Tube journeys yesterday were 5 percent higher
than the average Monday peak,  Transport for London  said today.
Passenger journeys on the  Docklands Light Railway , which serves
four Olympic sites, surged 65 percent to a record, though the
predicted jam at  London Bridge  station as 50,000 people left the
equestrian event in Greenwich failed to materialize last night.  “As a city, we’ve coped extremely well,” Culture Secretary
 Jeremy Hunt  said. “Londoners have listened to the messages. We
have lots of people who are actually working from home.”  Access to London’s streets is limited during the Olympics,
with 30 miles of  Games Lanes  restricted to athletes, officials
and the media from 6 a.m. to midnight. Roads in the southwest of
the city were shut for hours at the weekend for cycle races that
attracted more than 1 million onlookers, with more to be closed
today as the route of tomorrow’s cycling time trial is tested.  Taxi Dispute  London’s black-cab drivers may extend protests over their
exclusion from the lanes, with thousands of taxis staging a go-
slow for 15 minutes a day, Cabbies Against Boris, which is named
after London Mayor  Boris Johnson , said in an e-mailed statement.  Drivers are also unhappy that police cited anti-terrorism
laws in requiring them to leave the Hyde Park Corner area before
July 27’s Olympic opening ceremony, spokesman Dave Davies said.  London Transport Commissioner Peter Hendy said today in a
statement that congestion at London Bridge station had been
eased thanks to changes to commuters’ travel habits.  “We are very grateful to customers for following our advice
to avoid London Bridge and for major businesses who are enabling
their staff to work flexibly during the games,” he said. “Our
advice to all users of the transport network continues to be to
plan ahead, avoid hotspot areas and leave plenty of time.”  Smoke Alert  The Javelin service was disrupted at about 2 p.m. as police
attended a person threatening to commit suicide at Ebbsfleet,
further down the line, according to Sarah Boundy, a spokeswoman
at  Go-Ahead Group Plc (GOG) ’s SouthEastern unit, which runs the train.  Commuter services beyond Ebbsfleet to Kent were suspended,
and while shuttles from St Pancras station in central London to
the main Olympic site at Stratford were running normally, the
Get Ahead of the Games travel advisory twitter feed said earlier
that people should avoid the Javelin because of “severe delays.”  Central Line  subway services were this morning suspended
east of Liverpool Street, a section that includes the Olympic
site, as Leyton station was evacuated when a driver reported
smelling smoke shortly after 7 a.m., TfL said. A train had to be
removed before services could resume, according to spokeswoman
Chantelle Warner. The route was later cleared to reopen.  Hunt, who was speaking on Sky News television, said such
incidents are “a totally normal” occurrence. “Systems were put
in place. The Central Line was got up and running very quickly.”  Pinch points today will include routes to Greenwich for the
climax of the equestrian eventing competition, TfL said, while
the Metropolitan and Jubilee subway lines will be thronged as
the first evening soccer match takes place at Wembley stadium.  Heathrow Strike Ballot  As many as 1 million extra visitors are expected each day
during the games, making 3 million journeys on public transport
in addition to the usual 12 million. Events are taking place at
the Olympic Park, ExCeL center, North Greenwich Arena, Greenwich
Park, Royal Artillery Barracks, Horse Guards Parade, Earls
Court, Lord’s Cricket Ground, Wimbledon and Wembley stadium.  Rail, bus and subway networks survived the Monday morning
rush largely unscathed as people left home early or switched
travel plans to avoid well-publicized hotspots on the first
working day of the Olympics, TfL said yesterday.  London Heathrow ,  Europe ’s busiest airport, estimates its
most frenetic period will come on Aug. 13, the day after the
closing ceremony, with 130,000 people departing and 108,000
arriving for a total of 238,000, 5,000 more than the record.  Workers at  Heathrow Express , which provides a high-speed
rail link between the airport and Paddington station, are to be
balloted on a strike over pay. Staff employed by  Ferrovial SA (FER) ’s
Amey Rail and BAA Ltd. units have been denied the Olympic bonus
and a wage increase higher than inflation granted to directly-
contracted Heathrow Express workers, the RMT union said today.  RMT spokesman  Geoff Martin  declined to comment on whether a
walkout might take place during the Olympics.  People should check the  Get Ahead of the Games  website to
avoid travel disruption, according to TfL.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleanor Lawrie in London at 
 elawrie@bloomberg.net ;
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Zega in London at   rzega@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  