-- Poker Websites Agree to Settle Money-Laundering Probe
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-08-01T02:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/online-poker-companies-agree-to-settle-laundering-probe.html
PokerStars, Full Tilt Poker and
 Absolute Poker  agreed to settle money-laundering allegations in
an agreement worth at least $731 million, U.S. prosecutors said.  The three online poker companies illegally circumvented a
2006 law that bars banks from processing payments to offshore
gambling websites, said prosecutors in the office of U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan . At least 11 defendants have
been criminally charged in connection with the allegations.  “Today’s settlements demonstrate that if you engage in
conduct that violates the laws of the U.S., as we alleged in
this case, then even if you are doing so from across the ocean,
you will have to answer for that conduct and turn over your ill-
gotten gains,” Bharara said in a statement.  The agreement with PokerStars and Full Tilt was approved
today by U.S. District Judge Leonard B. Sand in  New York . Full
Tilt agreed to forfeit virtually all its assets, according to
the statement. PokerStars agreed to forfeit $547 million to the
U.S. and pay $184 million owed to foreign players by Full Tilt.  PokerStars will acquire the assets of Full Tilt, whose U.S.
victims will be able to seek compensation from the  Justice
Department  from the $547 million, prosecutors said.  Forfeit Assets  The agreement for Absolute Poker doesn’t specify an amount.
Prosecutors asked the judge to approve a deal requiring the
company to forfeit all its assets, including money held in
accounts, hardware and intellectual property.  Prosecutors alleged that the owners of the online poker
companies tricked U.S. banks into processing gambling payments
by using prepaid  debit cards  and electronic checks as well as by
establishing fake online businesses, according to a complaint
filed in the civil forfeiture case.  Full Tilt further defrauded players by misrepresenting that
funds on deposit with the site were secure, prosecutors alleged.
Instead, the site’s owners took distributions of more than $400
million, leaving little money in accounts for players, who were
owed as much as $390 million, prosecutors said.  “Full Tilt and Poker Stars had the interests of the
players and the future of online poker at heart -- we knew that
getting the players paid had to be a part of this transaction,”
Jeff Ifrah, a lawyer for Full Tilt, said in a statement,
referring to the settlement deal.  PokerStars, which didn’t admit to any wrongdoing under the
settlement, will be permitted to continue doing business as long
as it adheres to U.S. law, according to a statement from the
company. It said it plans to reopen Full Tilt under new
management.  PokerStars describes itself as the world’s most popular
online poker site, with more than 49 million registered users
since its start in 2001.  “We are delighted to be able to put this matter behind us,
and also secure our ability to operate in the  United States of
America  whenever the regulations allow,” PokerStars Chairman
Mark Scheinberg said in a statement.  The case is U.S. v. Pokerstars, 11-cv-02564, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  