-- Torture, Madness Abound in Louis Soutter Paris Exhibition
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-07-31T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/torture-madness-abound-in-louis-soutter-paris-exhibition.html
Mad or just eccentric?  Louis Soutter’s family took no chances: They had their
black sheep declared legally incompetent and, at age 52,
institutionalized for the rest of his life.  Soutter (1871-1942), whose strange drawings and paintings
are on view at the  Maison Rouge  and the  Fondation Le Corbusier 
in Paris, was a borderline case in art history.  Born into a bourgeois family in  Switzerland , he studied
violin with Belgian virtuoso Eugene Ysaye. After three years, he
switched to the fine arts and took lessons with various Swiss
and French painters.  In 1897, he moved to  Colorado Springs  in hot pursuit of an
American girl he had met in Ysaye’s class. He married her and
got a teaching job at  Colorado  College.  After their divorce, in 1903, he returned to Switzerland
and played in the symphony orchestras of Lausanne and Geneva.  Then something went wrong. He lost his job and tried to
make a living in cinemas, accompanying silent movies.
Eventually, his violin was confiscated to cover his debts.  The show starts with Soutter’s early, conventional work. It
gets interesting only after 1923: His internment in a retirement
home sparked an explosion of creativity. By 1927, he had done
more than 2,000 drawings.  Stolen Ink  Because he was penniless, Soutter worked on used envelopes,
wrapping paper and ordinary notebooks. He stole ink from the
local post office.  Another of his habits was to cover the pages of books he
was reading with drawings.  Soutter’s subjects give us an idea of his loneliness and
anxieties: The drawings abound with earthquakes, revolutions,
guillotines, masks and grotesque faces, mostly of women. One is
titled “The Fortress of the Mad.” Another evokes the “Torture
of Isolation.”  Stylistically, Soutter’s work is close to the German
Expressionists. It has nothing to do with the picture puzzles of
another Swiss mental case, his contemporary Adolf Wolfli.  The drawings probably would have been thrown out with the
garbage if Soutter hadn’t had a famous relative: Charles-Edouard
Jeanneret, better known under his pseudonym Le Corbusier, was
impressed by his cousin’s output.  Not only did the architect give him money to buy decent
paper and ink. He also arranged, in 1936, an exhibition of about
30 drawings at the  Wadsworth Atheneum  in Hartford,  Connecticut .  Their friendship ended when Soutter, suffering from
arthritis and poor vision, started painting with his fingers.
These late works may remind you of the German “Neuen Wilden,”
or “New Savages,” such as A. R. Penck and  Georg Baselitz .  Some experts suggest that Soutter may have been inspired by
the prehistoric rock art in Colorado’s Canon Pintado.  The exhibition at the Maison Rouge runs through Sept. 23.
Information:  http://www.lamaisonrouge.org . A much smaller show
at the Fondation Le Corbusier is limited to Soutter’s middle
period and is on through Sept. 15. Information:
 http://www.fondationlecorbusier.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure sections of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts.  To contact the writer on this story:
Jorg von Uthmann, in Paris, at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 