-- Total Follows Exxon, Chevron Into Kurdistan Region of Iraq
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-07-31T13:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/total-follows-exxon-chevron-into-kurdistan-region-of-iraq.html
Total SA (FP) , France’s largest oil
producer, followed  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  into the
Kurdistan region of northern Iraq.  Total bought a 35 percent stake in the Harir and Safen
blocks from  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) , the Paris-based company said in
today. The two blocks cover an area of 705 square kilometers
(270 square miles) and 424 square kilometers respectively. Total
will be the operator of the Safen block, it said.  Iraq’s Baghdad-based Oil Ministry has rebuked Exxon and
Chevron for signing contracts with the semi-autonomous Kurdish
region. The Kurds halted crude shipments on April 1 through a
pipeline controlled by the central government in a dispute over
tax revenue from oil, and they have announce plans to build
their own export link.  “Total confirms its commitment to contribute to the
development of the oil industry in Iraq and is looking for new
opportunities,” the company said in the statement.  A Marathon official declined to comment on the financial
details of the transaction.  The Kurdish region plans to increase output to 2 million
barrels a day by 2019,  Michael Howard , an adviser to Kurdistan
Natural Resources Minister Ashti Hawrami, said in a June 10
phone interview. It has signed energy agreements with about 50
companies and plans to increase output to 1 million barrels a
day by 2015 from about 300,000 barrels a day now, he said.  Kurdish authorities recognize production-sharing
agreements, which give investors a share of any oil they may
produce, whereas Iraq’s Oil Ministry offers only fee-based
service contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  