-- House Republicans Scrap Plan to Extend U.S. Agriculture Law
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-07-31T21:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/house-republicans-scrap-plan-to-extend-u-s-agriculture-law.html
House Republican leaders dropped a
plan for a vote on a one-year extension of U.S. agriculture
policy, averting a showdown with agricultural industry groups
led by the  American Farm Bureau Federation .  Instead, lawmakers will only vote on reviving disaster
relief aid to drought-stricken livestock producers, David Dreier, a California Republican and chairman of the House Rules
Committee, said today in an interview.  House Speaker  John Boehner  earlier had endorsed a one-year
extension of the current five-year agriculture law that expires
in September, pushing back any debate on the bill beyond the
November elections. A measure that would restore disaster aid
provisions for livestock producers that expired last year had
been attached to the bill.  The Farm Bureau, National Farmers Union and crop industry
groups from corn to wheat to soybeans had opposed an extension
unless it would be used as a vehicle to get to conference with
the Senate, which has already passed a five-year bill. Boehner
spokesman  Michael Steel  said yesterday the speaker would oppose
using the measure to get to conference.  Leader in the House and Senate have said Congress should
pass drought relief before the end of the week, when Congress
leaves town for its August recess, not returning until Sept. 10.  “It strikes most of us that some kind of drought
assistance clearing the Congress and getting to the president
this week would be a good idea, given the severity of conditions
all across the central part of the country,” Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, told reporters
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  