-- Panasonic Posts First Profit in Six Quarters on Cost Cuts
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-07-31T10:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/panasonic-posts-first-profit-in-six-quarters-on-cost-cuts-1-.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752) , the Japanese
consumer-electronics maker trying to recover from a record
annual loss, posted its first profit in six quarters after
cutting jobs and shutting factories.  Net income totaled 12.81 billion yen ($164 million) in the
three months ended June 30, compared with a 30.4 billion-yen net
loss a year earlier, the Osaka-based company said in a statement
today. That beat the 9.2 billion-yen average of three analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg News. Panasonic kept its full-
year profit forecast unchanged at 50 billion yen.  The maker of Viera televisions and Lumix cameras is trying
to turn around its unprofitable TV, electronic component and
battery operations this fiscal year after closing plants and
eliminating 36,000 jobs amid falling prices and a surging yen.
President  Kazuhiro Tsuga , who replaced Fumio Ohtsubo in the role
last month, has pledged to revive the Japanese manufacturer “by
all means.”  “The result was good and shares may rebound, but it
probably won’t last long,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees
about $500 million in assets at Tokyo-based Ichiyoshi Investment
Management Co. “Panasonic just started to tackle its structural
problems. I see nothing that can improve the company’s long-term
outlook.”  The stock rose 4.6 percent to close at 546 yen in Tokyo
trading before the announcement, narrowing its loss this year to
17 percent.  Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average has added
2.8 percent in the past seven months.  Cutting Costs  Panasonic will probably cut costs by 130 billion yen this
fiscal year after reducing them by 64 billion yen in the first
quarter from a year earlier, Chief Financial Officer Hideaki Kawai told reporters.  The audio-visual network division had a first-quarter
operating profit of 7.4 billion yen, compared with a 3.8
billion-yen operating loss a year earlier. Profit at the
appliance unit rose 7 percent from a year earlier to 37.4
billion yen, the company said.  The devices unit had an operating profit of 7.3 billion yen
in the quarter compared with a 2.7 billion-yen loss a year ago.
The energy unit had an operating profit of 100 million yen
compared with a loss a year earlier.  The company kept its annual TV sales target at 15.5 million
units.  Sony, Sharp  “Tsuga will probably need to take further measures to fix
the unprofitable operations of panels, semiconductors and
batteries,” Yasuo Nakane, a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG, said before the announcement. “Investors are expecting
to see some sort of reform plan, which may include closure,
suspension or sales of some businesses.”  Consumer-electronics makers  Sony Corp. (6758) , Sharp Corp. and
Panasonic are restructuring after competition with  South Korea ’s
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and Cupertino, California-based  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  pushed them into losses. Sony reports its earnings Aug. 2.  Panasonic is considering measures including an alliance for
its large-scale chip operations, Kawai said.  “There are possibilities that reform measures may cause
additional restructuring costs,” he said. “Nevertheless, we’ll
do all we can to absorb such increase in cost.”  Restructuring Costs  Restructuring costs this fiscal year may exceed an initial
estimate of 41 billion yen as Panasonic plans to take charges to
cut jobs and accounts for depreciation of factories, Tsuga said
July 10, without providing a new target. Panasonic may decrease
the number of staff at its headquarters to “a few hundred”
from about 7,000, he said.  Panasonic, planning to draft a new mid-term business
strategy by February, may rearrange businesses and consider
withdrawing from sectors that can’t be turned around in six
years, Tsuga said. Sony has had four consecutive years of
losses.  Panasonic posted a net loss of 772.2 billion yen in the
year ended March 31, a record for the company largely stemming
from charges to write down assets at its TV business and battery
subsidiary Sanyo Electric Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  