-- Panalpina Profit Misses Estimates as Asia Trade Volumes Slow
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-07-31T05:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/panalpina-profit-misses-estimates-as-asia-trade-volumes-slow.html
Panalpina Welttransport Holding AG (PWTN) ,
the world’s fourth-largest freight forwarder, said second-
quarter profit fell 37 percent, dropping more than analysts
estimated, as trade between Europe and Asia slowed.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization declined to 33.6 million Swiss francs ($34.4
million) from 53.7 million francs a year earlier, the Basel,
 Switzerland  based company said today in a statement. Profit was
less than the 32.8 million-franc average of nine analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue gained 2.4 percent to
1.67 billion francs.  “We anticipate a soft recovery of the air-freight market
in the second half of 2012 and continued market growth in ocean
freight,” Chief Executive Officer Monika Ribar said in the
statement. “Further significant rate increases in air and ocean
freight seem unlikely.”  Industry leader  Kuehne + Nagel International AG (KNIN)  scaled back
its full-year forecasts for the sea freight, air freight and
contract logistics in mid-July. The Schindellegi, Switzerland-
based company now expects a 3 percent decline in the air-cargo
industry compared with a previous forecast of no change.  The air-freight market will contract by 1 percent this
year, while the ocean freight market will grow 3 percent to 4
percent, Panalpina said today.  Global air-freight prices fell to at $3.60 per kilogram in
the second quarter, the lowest in at least two years, according
to the Drewry Air Freight  Price Index , which analyzes average
prices along major trade routes.  European air-freight volume fell the most since 2009 in the
three months through June, while in Asia it fell for a sixth
consecutive quarter, according to the  International Air
Transport Association .  Panalpina’s second-quarter Ebitda in the Asia-Pacific
region fell 35 percent to 15 million francs, while the Europe,
the Middle East and Africa division had a loss of 1 million
francs versus year-earlier profit of 9 million francs. In  North
America , a 2 million franc loss was reported versus a 9 million-
franc profit a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  