-- Egyptian Leaders Pledge to Counter Terrorists in Sinai
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-07-31T22:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/panetta-warns-egypt-on-sinai-as-potential-base-for-terrorists.html
Egypt ’s leaders have agreed to
cooperate on counterterrorism and have a special responsibility
to ensure security in the  Sinai Peninsula , U.S. Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  said.  Panetta, speaking yesterday after a meeting in Cairo with
President Mohamed Mursi and Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, said the Egyptian leaders pledged to counter al-Qaeda,
which U.S. and Israeli officials say may be gaining a toehold in
the 23,000-square-mile peninsula wedged between Egypt and
 Israel .  The State Department identified the Sinai as a “an area of
concern” in its annual Country Reports on Terrorism released
yesterday in  Washington .  “A number of loosely knit militant groups have formed in
the Sinai, with some claiming ties and allegiance to al-Qaeda --
though no formal links have been discovered,” the report
covering 2011 said.  The area has seen a rise in violence that authorities have
blamed in part on militants linked to al-Qaeda as well as
Bedouins, the nomadic people who live in the Sinai. The report
also describes attempts by  Iran  to use the Sinai to smuggle
rockets to militants in Gaza for use against Israel.  “Egypt’s Northern Sinai region remained a base for
smuggling arms and explosives into Gaza, as well as a transit
point for Palestinian extremists,” the report said. “The
smuggling of humans, weapons, cash and other contraband through
the Sinai into Israel and Gaza created criminal networks with
possible ties to terrorist groups in the region.”  ‘Dangerous Situation’  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  warned during a July 16
visit to Israel that “there is the potential of jihadists and
terrorists taking up an operation base in Sinai.” Clinton said
she had discussed the issue at length during a visit to Egypt
immediately before her stop in Israel.  “We think this is a dangerous situation for both Egypt and
Israel,” Clinton said during an interview with  CNN . “It is
also dangerous for Americans. We have Americans who are part of
the multinational force that observes the continuation” of the
1978 Camp David Accords between Israel and Egypt. “We’ve had a
few concerns about their safety.”  In August 2011, gunmen operating out of Sinai launched an
attack near the southern Israeli city of Eilat, killing eight
Israelis and injuring about 40 people in the most significant
act of terrorism in the country since 2008, according to the
State Department report. While responding to the incident,
Israeli soldiers killed six Egyptian border police.  Iran has unsuccessfully tried to smuggle an anti-ship
cruise missile into Gaza, the report said.  Ansar al-Jihad  Meanwhile, Hamas retained its grip on Gaza, where it
continued to stockpile weapons that pose a threat to Israelis.
Egyptian officials have also intercepted numerous shipments of
weapons, including rockets, smuggled in from  Libya  and believed
headed to Sinai. Hamas is considered a terrorist group by the
U.S. and Israel.  The report also said the Sinai gas pipeline to Israel was
bombed 10 times during 2011, forcing production shutdowns. A
group that called itself Ansar al-Jihad claimed responsibility
for the Eilat attack and two of the pipeline attacks, the report
said  Panetta is on a trip through the  Middle East . He met with
 Tunisia ’s new leaders and has stops in Israel and Jordan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  