-- Pennsylvania Expected Fewer to Lack ID, Official Says
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   D r e w   G i n g r i c h
-- 2012-08-01T04:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/pennsylvania-unready-for-voters-lacking-photo-id-official-says.html
Pennsylvania  anticipated that fewer
voters wouldn’t have the identification required under a new law
to cast a ballot than state employees later estimated, an
official said.  Secretary of State  Carol Aichele , testifying today at a
trial in which the voting law is being challenged, said the
state had expected 100,000 people to lack the proper ID. Another
state official testified July 30 that the number may be more
than 1 million. Aichele’s department oversees the voting process
in the state.  Aichele, while disputing the higher estimate, said that if
it’s correct, the state has a lot of work to do.  “We think the number is substantially less,” Aichele
said. “We planned on less.”  Pennsylvania is one of nine states that passed strict laws
requiring a photo ID to vote. Backed by Governor Tom Corbett, a
Republican, the state’s law requires voters to have a driver’s
license or another ID issued by the state’s Department of
Transportation, a state ID or an acceptable alternative such as
a military ID, to cast a ballot in the presidential election.  The law was enacted in March as similar measures in
Republican-led states drew criticism from Democrats, who say
they disenfranchise minority, poor and young voters. The
 American Civil Liberties Union  filed a lawsuit in May with 10
Pennsylvania voters as plaintiffs. The group is asking
Commonwealth Court Judge Robert E. Simpson to block the law
pending a final court decision.  Voter Lists  More than 889,000 names on voter registration lists
couldn’t be matched to Pennsylvania transportation department
records, David Burgess, deputy secretary for planning and
service delivery at the Department of State, testified July 30.
Another 574,630 voters had expired PennDOT identification,
Burgess said.  Aichele testified yesterday that the staff employee who
compiled an initial projection showing about 759,000 people
without either a driver’s license or alternative state ID did so
in less than 24 hours because she was told to come up with a
number. Aichele said she disagreed with the staffer’s assertion
that the number was too low. Aichele later conceded that the
state doesn’t know how many registered voters are out there
without PennDOT identification.  Closing arguments in the weeklong case are scheduled for
tomorrow.  The case is Applewhite v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 330
MD 2012, Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Gingrich in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, at  dag5225@psu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  