-- Peregrine Trustee Seeks to Subpoena Banks on Transfers
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-07-31T22:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/peregrine-trustee-seeks-to-subpoena-banks-on-transfers.html
The trustee liquidating Peregrine
Financial Group Inc. asked a judge for authority to subpoena the
defunct futures brokerage’s banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  for information about transfers from
segregated accounts and proprietary accounts.  Citing a lawsuit by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission against the company and founder Russell Wasendorf Sr.
over misappropriation of customer funds, the trustee said he
needs records from “various financial institutions” to
identify “abnormalities” in the company’s records.  Ten financial institutions maintained account applications,
authorization forms, agreements, statements, wire transfers,
canceled checks, deposit slips and correspondence, he said.  “Official financial institution records will also enable
the trustee to examine transfers from the debtor’s proprietary
accounts and segregated accounts,” Ira Bodenstein, the
trustee, said in a filing today in federal court in Chicago.  The other financial institutions that will be asked for
information are  U.S. Bank ,  Bank of New York Mellon  Corp., First
Premier Bank, Commerzbank AG,  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc ,
Jefferies Bache LLC,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , he said.  Customer Accounts  Peregrine’s July 10 bankruptcy, cutting off customers’
access to their accounts, came less than a year after the
failure of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , whose clients are still
missing $1.6 billion. In district court in Chicago, a receiver
is finding and securing Wasendorf’s assets on request of the
CFTC, which is probing more than $200 million of missing
customer money, as is the Justice Department.  Wasendorf may have funded his personal investments with
Peregrine brokerage money, the receiver has said.  In its bankruptcy petition,  Cedar Falls , Iowa-based
Peregrine listed more than $500 million in assets and more than
$100 million in liabilities. The brokerage estimates it has more
than 10,000 creditors, according to the filing. Peregrine had
241 employees, of which 56 were retained to help liquidate the
company.  Separately, Bodenstein asked the judge to set up procedures
for paying his fees and expenses, and said he is seeking to
hire as bankruptcy adviser Shaw Gussis Fishman Glantz Wolfson &
Towbin LLC, the law firm where works, at rates of as much as
$650 an hour.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-mj-131, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids). The
bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-27488,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).
The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-05383, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  