-- Pfizer Plans August IPO Filing as Profits Top Estimates
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-07-31T20:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/pfizer-schedules-animal-unit-ipo-as-profit-beats-estimates.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, said it will start a filing in mid-August to sell as
much as 20 percent of its animal-health unit in an initial
public offering. The company also reported profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as a result of cost cutting.  Net income rose 25 percent to $3.25 billion, or 43 cents a
share, New York-based Pfizer said today in a statement. Earnings
excluding one-time items beat by 8 cents the average estimate of
54 cents of 15 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Pfizer is reducing costs to counter eroding sales of its
top-selling cholesterol pill Lipitor, which lost market
exclusivity in November. The spin off of the animal-health unit
and spending cuts are part of Chief Executive Officer  Ian Read ’s
plan to refocus the company on producing new drugs to replace
Lipitor, once the world’s biggest-selling medicine.  “We’re before the middle innings, because it takes a
longer timeline,” to develop products than to reduce expenses,
Read said today in an interview.  As part of a spending overhaul, Pfizer may cut as many as
10 more facilities in the next several years, Chief Financial
Officer Frank D’Amelio said.  The company’s shares gained 1.4 percent to $24.04 at the
close in  New York , their highest price in more than four years.
The  stock  has gained 11 percent this year.  Serious Cuts  “Read showed he is serious about cost cutting, and
investors already rewarded him with a nice run-up in the stock
price over the last 12 months,”  Erik Gordon , a professor of
business at the  University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , said in an
e-mail. “The new products have to pan out and Pfizer has to
grow its non-U.S. sales in the face of a global slowdown.  Both
are riskier propositions.”  The company has three experimental drugs in late-stage
testing that investors are focused on as the near-term
replacements for Lipitor.  Tofacitinib, one of those drugs, is meant to treat
rheumatoid arthritis. U.S. regulatory approval might be delayed
beyond its current August deadline, the company said today.  Pfizer also released a study today showing the drug was
more effective than methotrexate, an older treatment.
Tofacitinib was superior in easing pain and swelling of joints
caused by rheumatoid arthritis and no new side effects were
found, according to the study. Results were from the last of
three stages of human tests generally required for Food and Drug
Administration approval. The drug may compete with  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT) ’ top-seller, Humira.  Other Setbacks  Other top prospects have had setbacks. Bapineuzumab, an
Alzheimer’s disease drug being developed with Johnson & Johnson
and Elan Corp., failed the first of four pivotal, final-stage
clinical trials, Pfizer said on July 24. Results from the next
trial will be released in August, Read said.  The company is also seeking marketing clearance for
Eliquis, a blood thinner being developed with New York-based
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  The FDA rejected Eliquis in June,
asking the companies for more information from existing trials.  The FDA could take as long as six months after the
companies give regulators the data to respond. The agency hasn’t
asked for a new clinical trial. The drug, aimed at patients with
heart arrhythmia, would have $2.5 billion a year in sales by
2015 if approved, according to  Tim Anderson , a Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analyst in New York.  Financial Results  The cost cutting helped Pfizer make its numbers this
quarter. Revenue fell 9 percent to $15.1 billion in the quarter,
led by declining sales of Lipitor, which dropped 53 percent to
$1.22 billion. Adjusted expenses, including marketing,
administrative and research and development costs, dropped 16
percent to $8.27 billion. The company reiterated its 2012
adjusted earnings  forecast  of $2.14 to $2.24 a share.  “I’m not sure that cost cutting can’t continue in some
form or fashion, especially as Pfizer has entered a period of a
number of expiries,”  Tony Butler , an analyst with Barclays Plc,
said in a telephone interview. “Margins and the ability to hold
back costs are much better than we as analysts predicted.”  Pfizer plans to sell shares of the animal-health business
in the first half of next year, Read said. The company will file
a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission that will start the process of separating the
business in August.  Zoetis Business  Along with the IPO, Pfizer plans to give current
shareholders stock in the animal-health business, to be named
Zoetis, he has said previously. The company hasn’t announced yet
where the company will have its headquarters, nor said who will
lead it.  In April, Pfizer agreed to sell its infant nutrition
business to Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle SA for $11.9
billion.  Money from the unit divestitures may be to be used for
share buybacks, which Read calls “the case to beat,” compared
with acquisitions.  The company has bid for other companies, including
drugmaker Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc., Bloomberg has reported.
However, it hasn’t made a  purchase  worth more than $50 million
during Read’s tenure, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We invest internally in projects that we believe have a
return above our cost of capital,” Read said. “External
opportunities are subject to the same analysis. We are not going
to do projects that do not return our cost of capital because of
issues internally or non-issues internally. Our willingness to
do deal externally is driven by the value of the deals.”  The second quarter was the first in which Lipitor faced the
full might of competition from generic versions of the pill. Six
months ago, Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. and  Watson Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (WPI)  were the only rivals.  Sales of Lyrica, used to treat pain, rose 14 percent to
$1.04 billion. Enbrel, an injection to treat rheumatoid
arthritis symptoms, generated $988 million in sales, an increase
of 8 percent. Revenue from Prevnar, Pfizer’s vaccine for
pneumococcal diseases, gained 12 percent to $916 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  