-- Phelps’s Silver Ties Olympic Medal Record, Le Clos Wins Gold
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-31T19:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/phelps-ties-all-time-olympic-medal-record-while-missing-gold.html
Michael Phelps  tied the record for
medals won by an Olympic athlete at 18 while missing the gold
when he was outreached by Chad le Clos of  South Africa  on the
final stroke in the 200-meter butterfly at the London Games.  Phelps got the silver medal and tied the mark set by former
Soviet Union gymnast Larissa Latynina. This is the fourth
Olympics for the 27-year-old American swimmer.  “Michael’s my hero and I didn’t expect to win,” Le Clos,
20, said in a poolside interview after winning in 1 minute,
52.96 seconds. “I just wanted to race against him in the final,
but I can’t believe it. I really can’t.”  Phelps can become the most decorated Olympian if the
defending-champion U.S. wins a medal in the 800-meter freestyle
relay later today.  The world record-holder in the 200-meter butterfly, Phelps
finished in 1:53.01 today at the Aquatics Centre, failing in his
bid to become the first man to win three consecutive Olympic
swim titles. Takeshi Matsuda of  Japan  won the bronze medal in
1:53.21.  Phelps has a record 14 gold medals, including eight four
years ago in Beijing, the most in a single Olympics. That haul
was accomplished with the help of a final-stroke reach in the
100-meter butterfly over Milorad Cavic of  Serbia .  This time, Phelps tried to glide to the finish and le Clos
kept stroking.  Dominated Event  Phelps had dominated the event at every  Olympic Games  and
world championships he took part in since 2000. The American
swimmer, who will retire after these games, had qualified for
the final in fifth place.  He led the final until the last stretch, and was almost a
body length ahead of the field midway through the race. Le Clos
raced past Matsuda and got to the wall first.  Phelps had a disappointing start to the Olympics, losing
his 400-meter individual medley crown to his friend and U.S.
teammate  Ryan Lochte , 27, on the first night of swimming at the
 London Olympics . He finished fourth, without a medal, the first
time that had happened since his first Olympics in Sydney in
2000, at 15.  A day later, he won his first silver medal in London when
the U.S. was beaten by  France  in the 400-meter freestyle relay.  Phelps tied a record that’s stood for 48 years. Latynina,
now 77, is the only woman to have won nine gold medals. Born in
 Ukraine , Latynina’s title rush took place between 1956 and 1964.
In total, she won nine gold, five silver and four bronze medals.  Phelps’s Medals  Phelps’s medal haul stretches over 12 years. Before today,
he’d won 14 gold medals, two bronze and one silver.  Phelps took two years off after Beijing before returning to
the pool in 2010. He said  London  is his last Olympics.  In an interview last week, he said he’d prepared himself
for an emotional final week of Olympic competition. He also said
he hasn’t had second thoughts about quitting.  “I knew that I wanted to swim for another four years after
2008 and I don’t have that feeling now,” Phelps said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Olympic Park at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in Olympic Park at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  