-- Oil Majors Avoid Philippine Bids for China-Claimed Sea Blocks
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-07-31T08:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/philippines-to-offer-offshore-oil-blocks-in-china-claimed-areas.html
The Philippines received bids from
local companies to explore offshore areas claimed by  China  in a
tender that the world’s biggest oil and gas firms avoided as the
nations feud over territory.  Makati City-based Helios Petroleum and Gas Corp. submitted
offers for two of the blocks, while a group including  Philex
Petroleum Corp. (PXP)  bid on one, according to Energy Undersecretary
Jose Layug. Two of the three areas fall within China’s so-called
nine-dash map of the South China Sea.  “We normally receive bids from medium-size companies, not
from the big boys,” Layug told reporters in  Manila  today.
“We’re very happy with the turnout.”  The Philippines, a U.S. ally, this month denounced
“intimidation” from China and warned of possible “physical
hostilities” at a regional security meeting that included
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton . Units of  Total SA (FP) ,  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and Royal Dutch Shell Plc, which were among about 40
companies prequalified for the auction, didn’t enter bids.  “No one can afford to upset the Chinese and be
marginalized in the Chinese market,”  Gordon Kwan , the Hong
Kong-based head of regional energy research at Mirae Asset
Securities Ltd., said by phone. “The Philippines is simply not
a must-have market for major oil companies,” he said, adding
that only businesses “with no chance in China” would bid.  China Permission  Chinese vessels last year chased away a survey ship doing
work for the Philippines, and China’s government has said
companies need its permission to explore in  areas  that were
offered today. A tripartite agreement between the Philippines,
China and  Vietnam  to jointly explore parts of the South China
Sea unraveled in 2008, prompting each nation to separately
pursue the search for offshore oil and gas.  Helios bid on both Area 3 and Area 4, which fall within
China’s claims based on its nine-dash map. Philex, Philippine
National Oil Co.-Exploration Corp. and Petro Energy Resources
Corp. jointly bid on Area 4. London-based Pitkin Petroleum Plc
and Philodrill Corp. jointly bid on Area 5, which is closer to
the Philippines than the other blocks offered.  The Philippines may award exploration contracts as early as
September, Layug said. Costs for the three blocks up for bid
today combined with a further 12 offered earlier would total
about $6 billion, he said.  “We don’t think the tension in the West Philippine Sea had
a negative impact,” Layug said, using the government’s term for
the  South China Sea . “These areas are clearly within the
sovereign rights of the Philippines.”  Political Risk  Arturo Morado, chief executive officer of Pitkin Petroleum,
said yesterday he wanted to avoid political risk.  “My gut feeling is that as you go farther away from the
Philippines going into the deeper waters, I think China will be
more active there complaining about any activities,” he said by
phone from Manila. “That will be riskier than blocks that are
nearer to the Philippines.”  China surpassed the U.S. as the world’s largest energy user
in 2010, while the Philippines wants to reduce its near-total
reliance on imports. The government in Manila plans to boost
hydrocarbon reserves by 40 percent in the next two decades,
according to a Department of Energy plan.  “Enhanced  energy security  is what’s important for us,”
Ricky Carandang, a spokesman for Philippine President  Benigno Aquino , said yesterday. “It’s important for the economy that we
develop more indigenous sources of fuel and power.”  Reed Bank  Philex Petroleum Chief Executive Officer  Manuel Pangilinan 
in April said tensions with China may delay development of Reed
Bank, which may contain the country’s largest gas field. He
declined to comment yesterday on talks with China National
Offshore Oil Corp. to settle a dispute involving  Forum Energy
Plc (FEP) , a U.K.-based Philex affiliate.  Last year, Chinese ships chased away a vessel working for
Forum Energy near Reed Bank, which sits to the west of the
blocks up for bid today. China probably won’t accept a deal that
includes Forum Energy because it wants to only deal with
companies from direct claimants, policy research group
 International Crisis Group  said in a  report  this month.  “Reed Bank is likely to remain a flashpoint as the
Philippines’ Philex Petroleum plans to start drilling in the
area by August 2013,” the report said. “So far this has been
held up by a lack of capital and potential partners, as major
 oil companies  fear jeopardizing their relationship with China.”  Deep-Water Rig  China has moved to secure more hydrocarbons in the South
China Sea. China National Offshore, the government-owned parent
of  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , last month invited foreign companies to explore
offshore blocks that Vietnam had already awarded to companies
including Exxon and OAO Gazprom. In May, Cnooc deployed China’s
first deep-water drilling rig near disputed islands.  When asked earlier this year about Philippine plans to
offer exploration blocks, foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei
reiterated China’s “indisputable sovereignty” over the area.  “It is illegal for any country or company to engage in oil
and gas exploration activities in waters under China’s
jurisdiction without the permission of the Chinese Government,”
he said on Feb. 28, according to a transcript of the briefing.  The  Philippines  has sought U.S. help in improving its
defense capabilities, acquiring a second Coast Guard cutter and
planning to obtain marine patrol vessels and radar. The
Philippines spent $2.2 billion on defense last year, compared
with China’s $129 billion, according to data compiled by the
Stockholm International Peace Research Institute.  “The bids are important because the exercise of
sovereignty is best shown by the ability to exercise
jurisdiction over the area,” said Prospero de Vera, a political
science professor at the University of the Philippines. “The
challenge there is, once you exercise sovereignty in the area
you must back up your words by protecting your interests.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  