-- Pound Declines Against Euro as Moody’s Cuts U.K. Growth Forecast
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-07-31T15:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/pound-falls-versus-euro-after-moody-s-cuts-u-k-growth-forecast.html
The pound fell against the euro,
snapping a three-day gain, after Moody’s Investors Service cut
its forecast for U.K. economic growth and said the government
will struggle to meet its debt-reduction targets.  Sterling weakened versus all except two of its 16 major
counterparts as an industry report showed U.K. consumer
confidence stalled this month as the recession deepened. U.K.
government bonds rose as investors sought safer assets. The  Bank
of England  will keep its asset-purchase program on hold and
leave  interest rates  unchanged when it meets on Aug. 2,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “The fundamentals are negative for the pound and we see it
weakening further,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London . “The longer the
period of economic stagnation goes on, the greater emphasis
there is on the government to change its fiscal program.”  The pound dropped 0.6 percent to 78.49 pence per euro at
4:36 p.m. London time after falling as much as 0.8 percent. The
U.K. currency depreciated 0.2 percent to $1.5685.  Today’s decline wiped out sterling’s gain this month. The
pound has fallen 0.2 percent in July, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10 developed-market
currencies. The euro dropped 3.1 percent and the dollar was
little changed.  ‘Rising Challenges’  “Moody’s sees rising challenges in achieving debt
reduction within the timeframe that has been laid out by the
government,” the company said in a credit opinion. Still, it
“believes that the U.K. government’s response to negative
developments late last year indicates it commitment to restoring
a sustainable debt position.”  An index of  consumer confidence  stayed at minus 29 in July,
London-based research group GfK NOP Ltd. said in a report. The
gauge has been in a range of minus 29 to minus 31 for the past
seven months.  The yield on the 10-year gilt fell seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 1.47 percent after dropping to a
record 1.407 percent on July 23. The 4 percent bond maturing in
March 2022 rose 0.73, or 7.30 pounds per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 122.595.  The pound is likely to find so-called support at around
79.09 pence per euro, the 38.2 percent retracement of its rally
from June to July, said  Karen Jones , head of fixed-income,
currency and commodity technical analysis at Commerzbank AG in
London, citing Fibonacci theory.  Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory that prices rise
or fall by certain percentages after reaching a high or low.
Support refers to an area where buy order may be clustered.  Barclays Forecast  Barclays Plc (BARC)  changed its forecast for Bank of England
policy, and now predicts policy makers will increase asset
purchases and cut interest rates in November.  The central bank will raise its target for bond purchases
by 50 billion pounds to 425 billion pounds, London-based
economist  Simon Hayes  wrote in a note to clients. The company’s
previous forecast was for no change. The Bank of England will
lower its key rate by a quarter point to 0.25 percent, he wrote.  The Debt Management Office said it will sell 1.5 billion
pounds of 5 percent notes due in 2014 through banks on Aug. 9.  U.K. government bonds have returned 1.5 percent this month,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds gained
1.4 percent, and  U.S. Treasuries  rose 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  