-- Qatar Female Table Tennis Pioneer's Olympics Ends in 18 Minutes
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-07-31T23:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/qatar-female-table-tennis-pioneer-s-olympics-ends-in-18-minutes.html
Qatari table tennis player Aia
Mohamed’s pioneering role at the  London  Olympics lasted all of
18 minutes.  Mohamed and three teammates are the first women sent by the
Gulf state to an Olympics. With  Saudi Arabia  and Brunei also
sending women for the first time, the London games mark the
first Olympiad at which every nation has at least one female
representative.  Mohamed, a wild-card entrant who is turning 18 today, lost
11-3, 11-7, 11-6, 11-3 to  China ’s Zhang Mo on July 28. No game
in the 4-0 match lasted longer than five minutes.  “I feel really proud,” Mohamed said yesterday in an
interview in the Athletes Village. “We’re very happy. The
Olympics is a huge thing for us.”  Mohamed wore a gray headscarf and was accompanied by a
Qatari teammate, 100-meter runner Noor Hussain Al-Malki, another
of the groundbreaking women on the squad.  “It’s our first Olympics,” Mohamed said. “We are very
honored to represent  Qatar  here at the Olympics for the first
time.”  Qatar, which earlier this year lost a bid for the 2020
Olympics, will host soccer’s 2022  World Cup  and has been using
sports to raise its profile. The charitable foundation run by
the country’s ruling family sponsors four-time European soccer
champion Barcelona and has spent more than $150 million on new
talent since buying French soccer team Paris Saint-Germain.  Qatar, a nation of about 1.7 million people, has become a
major mediator in Arab affairs as well as an investor in
European assets.  Sheikh’s Consolation  Mohamed, who said she only found out she’d been selected to
travel to London a month before the games started, said she was
consoled after her loss by the head of the country’s Olympic
federation, Sheikh Saoud Bin Abdulrahman Al-Thani.  “He said, ‘Even if you lost it’s an honor to be here, so
enjoy the experience,’” Mohamed said.  Mohamed, who was born in  Egypt , said her experience in
London will boost the profile of women athletes in Qatar and may
lead to more being selected for the team when the Olympics is
staged in  Rio de Janeiro  in 2016.  The Qatari team is housed in a part of the Athletes Village
that includes Nigerians, Koreans, Bahrainis, Tunisians and, much
to Mohamed’s delight, Chinese -- who have several of the world’s
best table tennis players.  “To be at the  Olympic Games  is a huge step for me,” she
said. “Playing more games will improve my technical skills and
also watching the games, too. It’s the Olympics, so the best
players from all over the world are playing.”  Asked what advice she had for Al-Malki, who has a best of
12.53 seconds in a race in which the Olympic record in 10.62,
Mohamed turned to look at her teammate.  “Enjoy it, even if she doesn’t win,” Mohamed said.
“Really, it’s a huge experience for her and also for us.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  