-- Qatar Telecom Second-Quarter Drops 11% on Forex Fluctuations
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-07-31T07:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/qatar-telecom-second-quarter-drops-11-on-forex-fluctuations-1-.html
Qatar Telecom  QSC, the nation’s
biggest phone company, said second-quarter profit dropped 11
percent because of “adverse foreign exchange movement in
Indonesia and Algeria.”  Net income fell to 641 million riyals ($176 million) from
722 million riyals a year earlier, the Doha-based company said
in an e-mailed statement today. EFG-Hermes Holding SAE estimated
a profit of 713 million riyals, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue rose 4.6 percent to 8.36 billion riyals in
the quarter.  Qatar Telecom, which owns stakes in phone companies from
 Tunisia  to Indonesia, is seeking to expand outside its home
market, where it faces competition from  Vodafone Qatar. (VFQS)  The
Doha-based company reached agreements in May to double its
holding in Asiacell, a mobile operator in  Iraq , for $1.47
billion. It teamed up with Princesse Holding of Tunisia in 2010
to buy  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE) ’s 50 percent stake in Telecom
Tunisie for $1.2 billion.  Operations in Kuwait were “negatively impacted by stronger
competition” in the quarter, Qtel said in the statement. The
company is now offering to purchase shares it doesn’t own in
Kuwait’s National Mobile Telecommunications Co., also known as
 Wataniya Telecom . It submitted an offer document for approval
from the Kuwait Capital Markets Authority, which may lead to an
offer for all the issued shares of Wataniya, it said.  Qtel offered to pay about 640 million dinars ($2.3
billion), or 2.67 dinars a share, to purchase the stake, Al-Rai
newspaper reported July 1, citing unidentified people familiar
with the matter. Wataniya competes with Mobile
Telecommunications Co., Kuwait’s largest mobile phone operator,
known as  Zain. (ZAIN)   At the end of the second quarter, the group’s customers
stood at 83.7 million, an 8 percent increase from a year ago.
Qatar, Tunisia, Iraq and Algeria maintained positive momentum
from the previous quarter, it said. Qtel’s operations in
Indonesia grew, while its Omani unit Nawras returned to positive
customer growth and stable revenue.  The shares lost 0.1 percent to close at 104.9 riyals in
Doha yesterday. The stock has gained 11 percent this year
compared with 5.7 percent decline in the benchmark QE Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  