-- Queen’s Granddaughter Jumps for Equestrian Gold at London Games
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-07-31T02:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/queen-s-granddaughter-jumps-for-equestrian-gold-at-london-games.html
  Zara Phillips , granddaughter of
 Queen Elizabeth II  and 14th in line to the U.K. throne, will
ride for Olympic gold today as Britain enters the jumping phase
of the team eventing competition in second place.  Germany  leads after yesterday’s cross country stage with
124.7 penalty points. Britain has 130.2 points ahead of third-
place Sweden with 131.4. Knocking down a pole during the jumping
tests costs a rider four penalty points.  Phillips, roared on by a partisan crowd and supported by
her cousins Princes William and Harry, produced a clear round in
9 minutes, 56 seconds in the cross country, within the optimum
time of 10:03, even after her horse, High Kingdom, lost a shoe.  “The support is an advantage and really gets you going,
but you’ve got to focus on your job,” Phillips, 31, told
reporters after finishing her round. “The only problem was you
couldn’t really hear your watch beeping.”  Fifteen riders fell from their horses as 74 starters
negotiated the hilly course in Greenwich Park, a former royal
hunting ground next to the  River Thames . Yoshiaki Oiwa of  Japan ,
who was leading the individual eventing contest after the
dressage, crashed out along with three Canadian team members.  “It’s definitely one of the most difficult courses I’ve
ever ridden in terms of terrain,” said Australia’s Andrew Hoy,
53, who won eventing team gold at the 1992, 1996 and 2000
Olympics. “It’s very, very tough on the horses.”  Germany’s Ingrid Klimke, 44, is tied for first place in the
individual eventing competition with Sara Algotsson Ostholt of
Sweden. Both women have 39.30 penalty points through the
dressage and cross country. New Zealand’s  Mark Todd , 56, is
third with 39.50.  Twisty Course  Phillips, who started in 24th place yesterday after scoring
46.10 penalty points in the dressage, moved into a tie for 10th
after clearing the 28-obstacle cross country course.  “It’s slippery out there and twisty and turny,” she said.
“It was hard work. The crowd were amazing all the way around.”  Phillips has equestrianism in her blood. She is the
daughter of Mark Phillips, who won gold at the Munich Olympics
in 1972 and silver at  Seoul  in 1988, and the Queen’s daughter
 Princess Anne , who competed for Britain at the Montreal Olympics
in 1976 and was European champion in 1971.  Massive Cheers  Married to former  England  rugby captain  Mike Tindall ,
Phillips was selected for Britain’s Olympic team four years ago
in Beijing before withdrawing when her horse went lame.  She won individual gold and team silver at the 2006 World
Equestrian Games and added the team gold at the European
Eventing Championships the following year.  “The cheers were massive when she was coming past, you
could hear it all around the arena,” said Laura Crotch-Harvey,
a 22-year-old student from Cheshire in northern England. “She’s
helping us get a lot more coverage for the sport because
everyone is talking about Zara Phillips.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  