-- Queen’s Granddaughter’s Penalty Helps German Equestrians Win
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-07-31T15:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/queen-s-granddaughter-penalty-helps-german-equestrians-to-gold.html
Zara Phillips , granddaughter of
 Queen Elizabeth II , helped  Germany  win the gold medal in the
equestrian team eventing at the  London  Olympics when she was
penalized for hitting a fence and a slow ride.  Phillips, riding High Kingdom, cost the British team seven
points at Greenwich Park in southeast London. Germany took gold
with 133.70 penalties, compared with 138.20 for Britain.  New
Zealand  won bronze with 144.40.  The German team of Peter Thomsen, 51; Dirk Schrade, 34;
Sandra Auffarth, 25; Michael Jung, 30; and Ingrid Klimke, 44,
added nine penalties today, compared with eight added by
Britain. Knocking down a pole during the jumping tests costs a
rider four penalty points, and there are additional faults for
going longer than the 83 seconds allowed for the course.  “I messed up at the start but I told myself I had to get
on with it,” Phillips, the 31-year-old daughter of  Princess Anne , told reporters. “I’m very disappointed for the team and I
hope I haven’t let them down.”  Teams are able to discount the results of two of their five
riders, and Britain left out the scores of William Fox-Pitt, 43,
and Nicola Wilson, 35, while keeping the tallies of Phillips,
Mary King, 53, and Tina Cook, 41.  Germany’s Jung also won gold in the individual event after
Sara Algotsson Ostholt, 37, of  Sweden , who was in first place,
knocked over the last jump and took silver. Auffarth won bronze
for Germany.  ‘Nervous’  “I was quite nervous. It is a long way from the warm-up
area to the ring, and the nearer you get to the ring the more
nervous you become,” Jung, who won gold at the world equestrian
games in 2010 and the world cup last year, told reporters. “But
once I am in there, I am focused.”  Phillips’s mother, who rode for Britain in the 1976
Olympics, presented her with her medal after watching the
competition along with her daughter’s cousins, Princes William
and Harry, and husband,  Mike Tindall , a former England rugby
captain.  “We should have been able to do more, but unfortunately
they were too good for us,” Phillips told BBC TV. “It’s
disappointing but, at the end of the day, we’ve got a team
silver medal.”  Phillips’s performance also qualified her for the jumping
contest in the individual eventing medal in which she jumped
clear within the allotted time, finishing in eighth place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  