-- RadioShack Tracks Kodak With 80% Default Odds: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-07-31T04:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/radioshack-tracks-kodak-with-80-default-odds-corporate-finance.html
Derivatives linked to  RadioShack
Corp. (RSH)  debt imply the retailer has an 84 percent chance of
default within five years, a level  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  and AMR
Corp. reached within six months of filing bankruptcy protection.  Credit-default swaps on the Fort Worth, Texas-based
electronics chain’s debt have been rising since January, when
they indicated a 50 percent default risk, jumping after the
 company  reported a second-quarter  loss  last week. Kodak hit the
84 percent level on July 18, 2011, six months before it filed.  Investors are concerned RadioShack may burn through its
$517.7 million of cash as competition from online and discount
retailers such as Amazon.com Inc. to Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
squeeze margins at electronics chains including RadioShack and
Best Buy Co. RadioShack is concentrating on low-margin mobile
phones, prompting  Standard & Poor’s  to  downgrade  it yesterday to
B-, six levels below investment grade, with a negative outlook.  “The market seems to be saying it is surprised that the
company has continued to survive,” said Melissa Weiler,
managing director at Crescent Capital Group LP, an alternative-
credit asset manager that oversees about $10 billion.
“RadioShack seems to be one of a few dinosaurs remaining out
there,” she said in a telephone interview from  Los Angeles .  Best Buy  “RadioShack has a solid balance sheet and cash flows this
year,” spokesman Eric Bruner said in an e-mail. “We have ample
options available to refinance about half of the $375 million
due in August 2013. RadioShack had $518 million in cash on hand
at quarter-end and total liquidity of more than $900 million.”  Swaps on Best Buy debt surged to the highest on record last
week after the world’s largest electronics retailer cuts jobs
and attempts to thwart so-called showrooming, when customers
test gadgets in a store and then buy them online, by adopting
minimalism rather than its traditional big-box approach.  “RadioShack seems to be quite similar, though much
smaller, to the situation we saw with Best Buy, but I think Best
Buy has a more appealing business plan and prospects,” Weiler
said.  RadioShack  swaps  jumped 28.3 percentage points this year to
a mid-price of 38 percent upfront yesterday, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
That means investors pay $3.8 million initially and $500,000
annually to protect $10 million of the company’s debt for five
years. That’s up from $966,000 upfront in January, and compares
with $1.5 million upfront for contracts tied to Best Buy.  ‘Price Sensitive’  RadioShack is focusing on mobile phones, which appeal to
“very price-sensitive consumers,” according to Bonnie Baha,
head of global developed credit at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine
Capital LP, which oversees $40 billion. “When you have a
consumer who is very dependent on price, with low margins, it’s
tough to manage a business and grow to prosperity,” she said.  The company  began  as an electronics parts supplier in
 Boston  and grew after it was purchased by leather-crafts chain
Tandy Corp. in 1963, according to business historian Hoovers
Inc. The company expanded as vacuum tube electronics were
replaced by solid-state technology and got a boost from the
popularity of citizen-band radios in the 1970s.  “Solid-state sold to the masses changed their business
forever, and they didn’t get the joke,” Baha said. “A lot of
these brand names have had the disadvantage of being around long
enough to remember what it was like but not being able to act
fast enough to see what it would become.”  The story is similar to that of Kodak, which filed for
bankruptcy in January after it failed to commercialize the
digital technology it invented. Instead, it focused on printers.  Kodak, AMR  “That was the point at which the company could not recover
because they chose a product line that was competitive, low
margin,” and “not only did they bet on a losing horse, they
doubled down on the bet,” Baha said.  Swap tied to Kodak reached levels that implied an 84
percent chance of default in five years on July 18 last year,
six months before it filed for Chapter 11 protection, and
American Airlines parent AMR’s credit-default swaps passed that
level on Sept. 22 before it filed on Nov. 29.  Even as swaps tied to their debt soared past levels
implying more than 80 percent odds of default, companies from
Sears Holdings Corp. to Clear Channel Communications Inc.
continue to pay debt holders.  Contracts on Sears reached a record 42.5 percent upfront in
January after people familiar with the situation said suppliers
were unable to get loans from CIT Group Inc., before falling to
26.5 percent last week, implying a 68 percent risk of default.
Swaps on Clear Channel surged to 54.5 percent yesterday,
indicating an 84 percent chance of default, the data show.  Bonds Fall  RadioShack’s $324.8 million of 6.75 percent notes due May
2019 have dropped 9.5 cents on the dollar since July 25, when
the company reported a quarterly adjusted loss of  20 cents  a
share, compared with the average analyst estimate projecting a
profit of 4 cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Net loss for the period was $21 million, compared with a
profit of $24.9 million a year earlier. The company suspended
its dividend to preserve cash.  The May 2019 notes fell to 65 cents on the dollar yesterday
to yield 15.18 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The bonds are down from 90.25 cents in January.  ‘Earnings Problem’  At the end of last quarter, RadioShack had $517.7 million
in  cash  and $392.5 million available under an asset-based
revolving credit facility, and $679 million of debt, according
to a July 25 regulatory filing.  The credit market is reflecting “concerns that liquidity
will tighten up on continued weak results,” according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. high yield consumer analysts Carla Casella
and Paul Simenauer. “The earnings problem is all margin,” they
wrote in a note dated July 26.  “The concern over the next six months is whether vendors
tighten terms on the company because of less liquidity
cushion,” they wrote. So far that hasn’t happened, they wrote.  Gross margin, the percentage of sales left after costs of
goods sold, narrowed to 37.8 percent in the second quarter from
45.9 percent a year earlier, Bloomberg data show.  “We were disappointed in our gross margin rate
performance, as the initiatives we have under way have not yet
generated enough momentum to improve the trend,” Jim Gooch,
RadioShack’s president and chief executive officer, said in a
July 25 earnings statement.  Gross Margin  Selling more smartphones, including Apple Inc.’s iPhone,
contributed to the decline in gross margin. It will continue to
pressure margins in the third quarter and “to a lesser extent”
the fourth, Gooch said in a conference call to discuss the
quarterly results with analysts and investors that day.  “It will be very difficult for the company to improve its
gross margin in the next year, given the changing industry
dynamics and mobility accounting for more than 50 percent of
sales,” S&P analysts Jayne Ross and Charles Pinson-Rose wrote
in the note yesterday.  RadioShack’s credit-default swaps are the widest of the
group of U.S. retailers tracked by Bloomberg, and the 11th
widest of global credit-default swaps, trailing Energy Future
Holdings Corp., Caesars Entertainment Operating Co., and Clear
Channel, Bloomberg data show.  Fitch Ratings  downgraded RadioShack’s issuer default rating
to CCC on July 25, citing a “lack of stability” and “no
apparent catalyst” for improvement. Long-term prospects for the
mobility segment are “uncertain,” analysts Philip Zahn and
Monica Aggarwal wrote.  Maturing Convertibles  They estimated RadioShack would be worth about $660 million
in liquidation, giving a recovery value of as little as 91 cents
on the dollar for its $450 million asset-based revolving line of
credit and 11 cents on the dollar for its $700 million of bonds.  RadioShack’s net cash has declined in each of the last
three quarters, falling a cumulative $150 million, Bloomberg
data show.  “There’s a lot of concern from a viability of business
model,” Joscelyn MacKay, a credit analyst at Morningstar Inc.
in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. RadioShack’s burn
rate over the past six months indicates that it’ll probably run
through its cash by the time its $375 million of convertible
notes mature in August 2013, she said.  “In a downside scenario, you could see a potential that
they won’t have enough revolver capacity or cash to finance the
convert, and they’ll have to go to the public market,” she
said. “That’s too much of a question mark for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  