-- Rain-Scarce India Depends on Record Stock to Feed People
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2012-08-01T06:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/rain-scarce-india-depends-on-record-grain-stock-to-feed-people.html
Crops in  India , the world’s second-
biggest grower and consumer of rice and wheat, are threatened by
the weakest monsoon since 2009 leaving the country’s supplies
hinging on stockpiles and measures to bolster supplies.  As many as 400 of the country’s 627 districts have received
less-than-average rainfall this year,  Sharad Pawar , the farm
minister, said in New Delhi yesterday after a government panel
on the drought met. The weather may affect the output of rice,
coarse cereals and lentils, he said. Rain in the past two months
has been worse than in 2009, he said. The precipitation in the
June-to-September rainy season three years ago was the third-
lowest since 1901, according to the country’s weather office.  Below- average rains  in more than 50 percent of the country
this year slowed the planting of crops such as rice, cotton,
corn and coarse cereals. Droughts from the U.S. to  Russia  may
limit India’s ability to import food crops at low prices this
year, according to Espirito Santo Investment Bank research.  “Adverse global weather conditions this year are an added
upside risk, though the government’s record-high stock of food
grains are a cushion for cereal prices,” Nomura Holdings Inc.
analysts Sonal Varma and Aman Mohunta said in a report dated
yesterday. The bank raised the food inflation forecast for the
2012-2013 to an average 14.3 percent from 12.8 percent earlier.  The worst U.S. drought in 56 years will cause food-price
volatility that may expand hunger among the world’s poorest
people, the Washington-based  World Bank  Group said July 30.  Boosting Imports  The food ministry in India was asked by ministers on a
panel yesterday to prepare a proposal to import lentils and
distribute them at subsidized rates, Pawar said.  “Increasing imports is the only option to maintain
supplies of pulses and edible oil,” said  Kishore Narne , head of
research at AnandRathi Commodities Ltd. in Mumbai.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  had been expecting a normal
amount of rain to harvest a record grain crop for a third year
in a row and to cool  inflation , which exceeded 7 percent for a
fifth straight month in June. Below-average rain may curb
exports of rice, wheat, sugar and cotton and increase imports of
cooking oils, Espirito said.  “While inflation in protein items remains elevated due to
structural demand-supply imbalances, additional risks to food
inflation have emerged from the deficient and uneven monsoon,”
the  Reserve Bank  of India said in a statement yesterday. “This
has the potential of aggravating inflation and inflation
expectations.”  Export Bans  India extended a ban on exports of sugar, rice, and wheat
in 2009 because of below-average rain. Bumper harvests in 2010
and 2011 enabled it to ease the curbs and allow free exports.
The government will refrain from banning shipments of food
grains and sugar for now because of ample stockpiles, Food
Minister K.V. Thomas said July 26.  The monsoon, which brings more than 70 percent of India’s
annual rain, has been 19 percent  below normal  since June 1,
according to the  India Meteorological Department .  With July being the critical planting month in India,
“there may be major negative implications if rains do not pick
up,” the World Bank said July 30.  Gujarat, Maharashtra and Rajasthan states with the biggest
deficits in rainfall this year, account for about 50 percent of
India’s  oilseed production , 40 percent of lentils output and
over 57 percent of the cotton crop, and the impact of a weak
monsoon could be severe, according to Espirito.  Grain Stockpiles  State reserves of rice and wheat climbed 26 percent to 80.5
million metric tons as of July 1 from a year earlier, according
to the Food Corp. of India.  Purchases of  vegetable oils  in the year starting Nov. 1 may
exceed an all-time high of 9.5 million tons estimated for this
year, B.V. Mehta,  executive director  at Solvent Extractors’
Association of India, said July 30. Imports of lentils may top 3
million tons in the year through March, said Pravin Dongre,
president of the India Pulses & Grains Association. The Asian
country is the biggest buyer of palm oil and lentils.  The area under lentils, a major source of protein for
India’s majority vegetarian population, fell 18 percent to 6.29
million hectares (15.5 million acres) from a year earlier, the
farm ministry said on July 27. Oilseeds were sown over 13.83
million hectares, compared with 13.98 million hectares, it said.  The area under rice dropped 8.6 percent to 19.1 million
hectares from 20.9 million hectares a year earlier, according to
the farm ministry. Cotton sowing declined to 9.72 million
hectares from 10.4 million hectares.  The government approved a subsidy on diesel and seeds while
scrapping  import duties  on oilseed cakes including soybean meal
yesterday, Farm Minister Pawar said. The government will give
19.3 billion rupees ($346 million) to affected states for
irrigation and drinking water, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  