-- Raisman, Wieber Aim to End U.S. Gymnastics Team’s Gold Drought
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-07-31T12:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/raisman-wieber-aim-to-end-u-s-gymnastics-team-s-gold-drought.html
World champion Jordyn Wieber can’t
win the Olympic individual gymnastics event after being
outscored by her roommate, Alexandra Raisman. Now they’ll work
together as the U.S. tries for its first team gold since 1996.  “I feel really bad knowing how much she wanted it,”
Raisman said after beating Wieber, 17. “I had no idea that I
was in the position to outscore her. I was completely focusing
on my exercises and not on the scores.”  The 18-year-old from  Boston  qualified first for the U.S.
on July 29. She’ll be joined by 16-year-old Gabrielle Douglas,
whose 60.265 beat Michigan-born Wieber’s total of 60.032.
Wieber’s next chance for a medal is in today’s team event.  The U.S., which also includes Kyla Ross, 15, and McKayla
Maroney, 16, is chasing a first gold medal in the team event
since the so-called “Magnificent Seven” won in Atlanta 16
years ago. Since then the women have won silver at Beijing and
 Athens .  The quintet qualified with a score of 181.863. That beat
Russia’s 180.429 and  China ’s total of 176.637. Those are among
the U.S.’s main rivals, according to Nastia Liukin, a gold-
medalist in Beijing four years ago.  “Team USA has a good chance but  Russia , Romania, China,
they’re all kind of in the mix,” the 22-year-old Texan said in
an interview. “It’ll all come down to team finals. It all comes
down to consistency and who’s on that night.”  Liukin, who is also in  London  for the games, has been
giving the women’s team a boost by texting them messages of
support, according to Wieber. Liukin knows the feeling of
missing out on the Olympics after she failed to qualify in the
trials for London.  Britain,  Japan ,  Italy  and  Canada  are the remaining teams
in the final, which begins at 4:30 p.m. local time at London’s
North Greenwich Arena.  Top Qualifier  Russia’s Victoria Komova scored 60.632 in the qualifying
event, the highest of any gymnast’s individual performance,
while her teammate Aliya Mustafina was fifth overall. Between
the two Russians was the U.S. trio of Raisman, Douglas and
Wieber.  The U.S. is best placed to win its first team gold on
foreign soil, according to Nadia Comaneci, the Romanian gymnast
who scored seven perfect 10s on her way to three gold medals in
at the 1976 Montreal games.  “There’s always four countries for three medals,” said
the nine-time Olympic medalist. “The U.S. are very good at this
particular time. They have a great chance to be the favorites in
the women’s competition.  Romania  is doing very well. Russia is
going to be there on podium and China.”  The U.S. is the 1-3 favorite for the gold medal in the team
event, meaning that a winning $3 bet would return $1 plus the
original wager. Russia is 7-2 and Romania is 7-1, according to
U.K. bookmaker William Hill.  “Every team is beatable,” said British gymnast Beth
Tweddle, who scored the highest on the uneven bars during
qualifying. “You do have to have a little bit of luck. I’m sure
China and Russia will be pushing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane at the North Greenwich Arena on  at  cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net . 