-- Treasuries Fall Before ECB Meeting, as Asian Stocks Gain
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-07-31T06:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/treasuries-remain-higher-amid-speculation-fed-to-ease.html
Treasuries declined before the
 European Central Bank  holds a policy meeting this week on
prospects the ECB will buy bonds to lower government borrowing
costs in the euro area.  U.S. debt  pared a monthly advance as Asian stocks climbed,
sapping the allure of Treasuries as a haven. Five-year note
yields were about nine basis points from a record low as the
 Federal Reserve  starts a two-day meeting today amid speculation
it will take measures to keep interest rates lower to stimulate
the world’s largest economy.  “Demand for Treasuries as a safe asset is easing because
of expectations for policy development in  Europe ,” said Hitoshi Asaoka, a Tokyo-based senior strategist at Mizuho Trust &
Banking Co., a unit of  Japan ’s third-largest bank by market
value. “People are expecting the ECB to buy Spanish and Italian
bonds to curb increases in their borrowing costs.”  The 10-year  yield  gained two basis points to 1.52 percent
as of 6:39 a.m. in  London . The 1.75 percent security due May
2022 lost 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 102 3/32,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. Five-year yields were
little changed from yesterday at 0.62 percent, compared with the
all-time low of 0.53 percent on July 25.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares climbed 1.2 percent.  Japan’s 10-year bond yield added one basis point to 0.79
percent, according to Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s
largest interdealer debt broker. It reached 0.72 percent on July
23, the lowest since June 2003.  ECB Policy  Ten-year Treasury yields completed a three-day, 16 basis
point increase on July 27 after ECB President  Mario Draghi  said
the central bank is “ready to do whatever it takes to preserve
the euro.”  Members of the ECB’s Governing Council will meet on Aug. 2.
to determine their next move to combat the debt crisis that has
pushed up borrowing costs for  Italy  and  Spain , the euro area’s
third- and fourth-largest economies.  Spanish 10-year yields have pared their advance since
climbing to a euro-era record of 7.75 percent on July 25. The
benchmark rate slid to 6.61 percent yesterday. The equivalent
rate in Italy has dropped to 6.03 percent from a six-month high
of 6.71 percent.  Government of Singapore Investment Corp., a manager of more
than $100 billion, cut investments in bonds to 17 percent of its
portfolio in the year ended March 31 from 22 percent a year
earlier, according to its annual report. The sovereign wealth
fund boosted cash holdings to 11 percent from 3 percent.  “We reduced the allocation to bonds because bond yields in
the developed markets had been pushed down to abnormally low
levels by the flight to safe assets and central bank
intervention,” Chief Investment Officer Ng Kok Song wrote in
the report.  Fed Expectations  Ten-year Treasury yields have fallen 13 basis points in
July as expectations for additional monetary easing by the Fed
boosted demand for the securities.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on July 17 that policy
makers are “looking for ways to address the weakness in the
economy should more action be needed.” The U.S. central bank
said in January that its benchmark  interest rate  will stay at
“exceptionally low levels” at least through late 2014,
extending its pledge from the middle of 2013.  “If the late-2014 guidance for the first rate hike is
extended to 2015, its main impact will be felt in the 5-year
sector,” Bulent Baygun, head of U.S. interest-rate strategy at
BNP Paribas SA in  New York , wrote in a research note yesterday.
Investors betting on the extension should buy five-year notes,
whose rates may fall to 0.5 percent, the strategist wrote.  U.S. Economy  U.S. consumer spending probably rose 0.1 percent in June
following no change in May, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey taken before the Commerce
Department releases figures today.  The Conference Board’s index of  consumer confidence 
probably fell in July for a fifth month, the longest stretch of
declines since the first half of 2008, a separate poll of
economists showed. The gauge is estimated to have fallen to 61.5
from 62 in June.  “We can’t expect a significant improvement in the  U.S.
economy , and that’s weighing on Treasury yields,” said Makoto Suzuki, a senior bond strategist in  Tokyo  at Okasan Securities
Co. “The Fed may extend its pledge to keep interest rates low
for longer.”  The Fed is  scheduled  today to buy as much as $5 billion of
Treasuries maturing in July 2018 to May 2020. The purchases are
part of the central bank’s plan, known as Operation Twist, to
swap short-term debt in its holdings for longer maturities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  