-- Treasuries Record Monthly Advance Amid European Debt Concern
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-07-31T21:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/treasuries-snap-yesterday-s-gain-before-personal-spending-report.html
Treasuries had a monthly gain as
 Europe ’s debt crisis underpinned demand for the securities and
investors awaited the results of central-bank policy meetings in
the U.S. and euro area this week.  Benchmark  10-year note yields  dropped as the  Federal
Reserve  started a two-day meeting in  Washington . While the
 Federal Open Market Committee  probably won’t undertake more
asset purchases, it may keep a pledge to hold the main  interest
rate  near zero through late 2014, economists predict. Treasuries
rallied with German bunds in July as economic reports added to
signs Europe’s fiscal woes are harming the economy.  “The market is trying to position itself for tomorrow’s
announcement,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading
at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in  New York , one of 21 firms that trade
Treasuries with the central bank. “The market is so fickle
about what’s going on. It’s chopping around.”  The U.S. 10-year  yield  declined three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.47 percent at 4:59 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent
security due in May 2022 rose 10/32, or $3.13 per $1,000 face
amount, to 102 18/32. The yield fell to a record 1.379 percent
on July 25.  The benchmark debt advanced in three of the past four
months.  Fed Meets  “With continued growth concerns, the  European debt crisis 
hanging over our heads and political uncertainty domestically,
yields are going to have a hard time rising meaningfully,” said
Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of government and
agency debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income
broker and dealer for institutional investors.  U.S. government securities, perceived to be among the
world’s safest and most liquid assets, returned 1 percent in
July as of yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch. Their German counterparts rose 1.4
percent, while Spanish debt lost 0.5 percent.  U.S. policy makers may refrain from starting new bond
purchases, according to 88 percent of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Forty-eight percent say the FOMC will announce the
buying at its Sept. 12-13 meeting, according to the July 25-27
survey of 58 economists.  “The most likely outcome from the current meeting is some
modest downgrade of the language pertaining to the economic
assessment,” wrote Joe LaVorgna, chief U.S. economist at
Deutsche Bank AG in New York, in a note to clients. “The easing
bias will remain in place, but no further action will be taken.
At most, we think policy makers could extend their Fed funds
guidance from late 2014 to late 2015.”  The benchmark rate has been in a range between zero and
0.25 percent since December 2008.  Gross View  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said governments may turn to
financial repression and various forms of quantitative easing to
inflate asset values as equities fail to match historical
returns.  “Unfair though it may be, an investor should continue to
expect an attempted inflationary solution in all almost all
developed economies over the next few years and even decades,”
Gross wrote. “The cult of equity may be dying, but the cult of
inflation may have only just begun.”  The so-called Siegel Constant, which purports to show a
long-term history of inflation-adjusted equity real returns of
6.6 percent since 1912, may be a “historical freak” unlikely
to be seen again, Gross said in his monthly investment outlook
posted on the  Newport Beach , California-based company’s website
today.  Bernanke Stance  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on July 17 that policy
makers are “looking for ways to address the weakness in the
economy should more action be needed.” The U.S. central bank
said in January that its benchmark interest rate will stay at
“exceptionally low levels” at least through late 2014,
extending its pledge from the middle of 2013.  European Central Bank officials meet to review monetary
policy in  Frankfurt  on Aug. 2.  The Fed  purchased  $4.78 billion of Treasuries maturing in
July 2018 to July 2019 today. The purchases are part of its plan
to swap short-term debt in its holdings for longer maturities.  The U.S. Treasury Department raised its net borrowing
estimate for the current quarter, reflecting in part lower
revenue, higher spending and higher issuances of state and local
government securities.  The Treasury increased its estimate for July to September
to $276 billion, which is $12 billion higher than projected in
April. Treasury officials see net borrowing of $316 billion in
the quarter starting Oct. 1. In the quarter that ended June 30,
the Treasury borrowed $172 billion, compared with a previous
estimate of $182 billion.  The Treasury will make its so-called quarterly refunding
announcement on Aug. 1. The government has sold $32 billion in
three-year notes, $24 billion in 10-year debt and $16 billion in
30-year bonds each refunding month since November 2010.
Quarterly refundings are held each February, May, August and
November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  