-- Regeneron’s Arcalyst Fails to Win U.S. Backing for Gout
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-07-31T20:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/regeneron-s-arcalyst-fails-to-win-u-s-backing-for-gout.html
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN) , the
maker of the autoinflammatory drug Arcalyst, failed to win U.S.
approval to expand the use of the medicine for patients
undergoing gout treatments.  The  Food and Drug Administration  asked in a complete
response letter for more data regarding the use of the injection
to treat flares of joint pain caused by gout treatments, the
Tarrytown, New York-based company said yesterday in a statement.
Arcalyst was cleared for sale in February 2008 to treat a rare
genetic autoinflammatory disease.  FDA staff raised concerns in a May 4  report  that the
benefit of expanding the drug’s use may be too small to justify
a 1 in 244 risk of developing cancer from taking the medicine.
Arcalyst was linked to six cases of malignancies, including
prostate and breast cancers. Advisers to the agency recommended
against approval of the new use citing inadequate safety data.  “Regeneron is reviewing the complete response letter and
will determine appropriate next steps,” George D. Yancopoulos,
president of Regeneron Laboratories, said in the statement.  Expanded approval would have added $128 million to $200
million to Regeneron’s annual sales of the drug by 2015,
according to two analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg earlier
this year. Arcalyst  generated  about $20 million for the company
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Regeneron declined less than 1 percent to $134.65 at the
close in  New York . The company’s shares have more than doubled
in the past 12 months.  FDA Request  The FDA also asked for information about chemistry,
manufacturing and controls related to a proposed new dosage form
of the medicine, Regeneron said in the statement.  Gout treatments include  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ’s Uloric
and a generic version, allopurinol. They lower levels of uric
acid, or bodily waste, that cause gout in excess levels, which
manifests through joint pain, according to the  National
Institutes of Health . Regeneron is seeking approval of Arcalyst
to prevent gout flares for people initiating uric-acid lowering
therapies.  Allopurinol breaks up uric acid crystals that can cause
flares of joint pain that may lead patients to stop taking their
medication, the company said. About 750,000 gout patients begin
taking allopurinol each year, according to Regeneron.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  