-- LaTourette Is Latest Moderate to Plan Congressional Exit
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-08-01T04:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/republican-steve-latourette-of-ohio-to-retire-from-house.html
Ohio Republican Steve LaTourette’s
decision to retire from the U.S. House means there will be even
fewer moderates to work across party lines on the so-called
fiscal cliff and other tax-and-spending issues.  “Words like compromise have been like dirty words,”
LaTourette, 58, said yesterday in announcing he won’t seek a
10th House term.  He and two other lawmakers not seeking re-election in
November, Republican Senator  Olympia Snowe  of Maine and
Democratic Senator  Ben Nelson  of Nebraska, are part of a
shrinking band of lawmakers known for bucking party leaders and
trying to seek compromise with opponents.  “The center is certainly greatly diminished,” said
Rutgers University political scientist  Ross Baker . “In both
parties the moderates lose by subtraction,” he said.  “It’s hard to imagine how” the legislative stalemate that
produced the 2011 showdown over extending the government’s
borrowing authority could be “more intractable than it is
now,” Baker said. Still, he said, “barring an absolute blowout
one way or another in the election, this is going to continue.”  Seven other moderate House Republicans --  Judy Biggert  and
Robert Dold of  Illinois , Charlie Bass of  New Hampshire , Nan Hayworth and Chris Gibson of New York, Roscoe Bartlett of
Maryland and California’s Brian Bilbray -- are in danger of
losing their re-election bids. Their races are rated either a
tossup, leaning Democratic or likely Democratic by the
nonpartisan Cook Political Report.  House Democrats  Moderate House Democrats also are retiring or threatened
with defeat at the polls. Dennis Cardoza of California, Jerry Costello of Illinois,  Mike Ross  of  Arkansas ,  Dan Boren  of
Oklahoma and Heath Shuler of  North Carolina  decided not to seek
re-election. Democrats Mark Critz of  Pennsylvania , Mike McIntyre
of North Carolina and  Jim Matheson  of Utah are in races rated
tossups by the Cook report.  After Republicans took over the House in 2010, opposition
from Tea Party-backed members made it harder for House Speaker
 John Boehner  of Ohio to persuade his party to support proposals
such as a farm bill or extensions of federal highway and
transportation programs.  “Take away people like LaTourette” and “it is just going
to be that much tougher for him” to pass legislation, Baker
said.  Highway Bill  LaTourette cited the difficulty of passing the highway
transportation measure as one of his biggest frustrations in the
current Congress at his news conference in Painesville,  Ohio .  “There are people on the right and on the left who think
that if you compromise you are a coward, you are a facilitator,
you are an appeaser,” LaTourette said. With “very little
opportunity” for compromise, he said he concluded “there are
so many times you can run your head into a cement wall.”  “For a long time, words like compromise have been like
dirty words,” he said, according to the Plain Dealer. “I
always believed that the art of being a legislator is finding
common ground.”  Snowe, 65, said she sympathized with LaTourette because
“if you’re practical and pragmatic and you believe in the
essence of public service, being problem solving, it is truly
frustrating” to be in Congress. “Today it’s all about the
political message,” she said.  ‘Huge Chasm’  Her decision to end a legislative career spanning four
decades was also motivated by the “huge chasm between what
people are facing at home” and “what we are able to address
here to try to make it better,” Snowe said in an interview.  The legislative fights over the last two years “have been
particularly difficult” for moderate Republicans like
LaTourette, said  Paul Beck , a political scientist at  Ohio State
University  in Columbus.  Looming battles over averting $1.2 trillion in automatic
spending cuts and whether to allow Bush-era income tax cuts to
expire will “put moderates in both parties under great, great
strain,” Beck said in a telephone interview. “The pressures on
the Republican side are absolutely intense.”  “People who are in a party don’t want to be seen as not
playing on the team,” Beck said. “On the other hand, the team
asks them to do things that they are just very, very
uncomfortable in doing.”  50 Lawmakers  A total of 22 House Republicans and 28 House Democrats are
retiring, lost primary bids or decided to run for different
offices such as the Senate or a governorship.  Moderates aren’t the only ones retiring. Yesterday,
Representative Geoff Davis of  Kentucky  resigned immediately to
help address a “family health issue,” he said in a statement.  LaTourette represents a district that extends from the
eastern suburbs of  Cleveland  eastward to the Pennsylvania line.
Beck said that in 2008, Republican presidential candidate  John McCain  beat President  Barack Obama  by 700 votes out of 340,000
cast in the district. The district has been redrawn following
the 2010 Census.  LaTourette’s decision not to formally withdraw his re-
election candidacy until Aug. 8 will let party leaders choose a
candidate without holding a primary election, Beck said.  Democrats may be able to make the race competitive if they
can persuade their “very weak” candidate to step aside for a
stronger challenger, Beck said.  ‘No Way’  Still, Dale Blanchard, the Democratic nominee,  told  the
Youngstown Vindicator, “There is no way I’d ever get out of the
race.”  Boehner, also an Ohio Republican, in a statement called
LaTourette “a close friend and an effective legislator.” He
predicted that “Republicans are in good position to hold this
seat.”  The departure of LaTourette and others like him may make it
harder for Boehner to remain speaker if Republicans keep their
House majority in November, Beck said.  Idaho Republican Mike Simpson, a fellow House
Appropriations Committee member, said he was “sickened by”
LaTourette’s decision to leave the House because “we are losing
a lot of good people that are legislators, not just
ideologues.”  Simpson said he understood LaTourette’s frustration with
the partisan gridlock, “People are just getting fed up,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  