-- Richest Retirees Settle for Seattle Rain as Florida No. 2
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-07-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/richest-retirees-settle-for-seattle-rain-as-florida-no-2.html
The U.S.’s richest retirees are
spurning Florida’s sun in favor of  Seattle ’s rain and the
company of  Steve Ballmer .  Hunts Point,  Washington , a Seattle suburb with more than
150 days of rain a year and about 400 residents including the
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  chief executive officer, had an average
household retirement income of $200,431 in 2010. That puts the
peninsula town at No. 1 in a Bloomberg Rankings list of 37
places with the wealthiest older residents.  “Most of the homes are on the water or near the water,”
said  Stan Humphries , chief economist at Seattle-based Zillow
Inc. “It’s right across the bridge from Seattle, it’s near
Microsoft, and of course it’s a very pretty place.”  Small, private spots such as Hunts Point that provide easy
access to cities along with an island or country ambiance are
among the favorite places for the nation’s wealthiest retirees,
according to the  ranking . Older residents of the top-ranked
enclaves are flush for retirement, with incomes from pensions,
savings and investments averaging more than six figures before
Social Security. The list includes four cities in Florida, home
to one of the world’s biggest retirement hubs.  Bloomberg’s list, based on  U.S. Census Bureau  data, ranks
places with at least 100 residents, a retirement income
averaging at least $75,000 and median home values of $500,000 or
more.  ‘Tree City’  “We have a group of people who have prepared extremely
well,” Laura Carstensen, a professor of psychology at  Stanford
University  and director of the Stanford Center on Longevity near
 Palo Alto ,  California , said of retirees. “They have a few
million dollars in their retirement accounts. They’re going to
have a lot of flexibility.”  In Hunts Point, where retirement income is  nine times  the
national average, about 21 percent of residents are 65 or older.
Almost half of the homes have at least an acre on Lake
Washington, and it’s one of 23 towns on the list with median
housing values of more than $1 million. Hunts Point is
designated a “Tree City USA” by the Arbor Day Foundation, a
nonprofit educational group in Nebraska City, Nebraska, for its
forests, which combined with the shoreline provide privacy.  The Village of  Bannockburn, Illinois , No. 5 on the
Bloomberg list, has more than six miles of equestrian and
pedestrian trails and is 26 miles north of  Chicago . About 13
percent of its population is at least 65 and the average
retirement income is $129,256.  ‘Country Setting’  “It seems like you have suburban areas all around and then
you enter a country setting,” said George Fenton, a 57-year-old
retiree who lives in Bannockburn. “It’s very wooded with
tremendous amounts of greenery. The lots are very large and the
infrastructure is fantastic.”  Fenton, a former executive for a general contracting firm,
said he owns about an acre and a third in the village and plans
on staying despite the Chicago winters because of the
surroundings and easy access to both the city and O’Hare
International Airport.  Barton Hills Village,  Michigan , ranked No. 4, offers the
“ambiance of privacy without isolation,” according to the
town’s 2010  master plan . It’s set among hills on the Huron River
overlooking  Ann Arbor , which is home to the  University of
Michigan , and has three stone-pillar entrances known as the
Lower Gate, Upper Gate and West Gate.  ‘Gatsby’ Connection  Three of the places in the top 10 are small villages within
the  Town of North Hempstead  on  New York ’s Long Island. The area,
once home to “The Great Gatsby” author  F. Scott Fitzgerald ,
offers residents a marina and a less than 30-minute trip to
 Manhattan  by express train. Harbor Hills, Kings Point and Great
Neck Estates each had average retirement incomes of more than
$114,000, and median home values topping $1 million.  Most retirees don’t move, and the majority of those who do
stay within 20 miles of their old homes, according to the latest
 data  from the Center for Retirement Research at  Boston College .
They want to remain in their own homes and near to their family
and friends as they age, said Stanford’s Carstensen. And they
may continue to work part-time or come in and out of retirement
if they’re able, she said.  “If you look at the boomer generation, they’re the
healthiest, best-educated people in the history of our
country,” she said. “I think we’re going to see a lot of
changes associated with them.”  Many of the 78 million  baby boomers  born in the U.S. from
1946 to 1964 are at or approaching  retirement age .  ‘Golden Age’  The group may have better prospects than future generations
whether they live in wealthy or more modest communities,
according to Anthony Webb, a research economist at the Center
for Retirement Research. They’re more likely to have traditional
pensions in which employers guarantee income through retirement
while younger workers are shifting to depending on 401(k)
accounts that require managing one’s own lifetime income, he
said.  “The current retirees are living in somewhat of a golden
age of retirement,” Webb said.  Many older workers are far from affluent, according to a
July report by the  Center for Retirement Research . The typical
household headed by a 55- to 64-year-old had $120,000 in
combined 401(k) and individual retirement account savings in
2010, which would buy about $6,900 in annual income through a
joint-and-survivor annuity.  Staying Put  The four  Florida  communities on the list include the
 Village of Golf  in Palm Beach County, which ranked No. 2 with a
golf course called the  Country Club of Florida  and a mean
retirement income of $158,418. The gated community of  Orchid ,
which is No. 7, features an Arnold Palmer-designed golf course
and a beach club, and had retirement income of $126,397.  The richest places on Bloomberg’s ranking didn’t see an
influx of people over age 65 who moved from out of state in the
previous year, as many aren’t primarily retirement communities,
the data show.  A separate ranking comparing places with higher-than
average household retirement income that attract the most out-
of-state retirees moving in showed Hilton Head Island,  South
Carolina , at the top. The town had a 1.4 percent increase in
2010 in out-of-state retirees and average retirement income of
$43,291.  Retirement Hub  The Villages in Florida, one of the world’s biggest
retirement hubs, saw a 2.9 percent increase in residents age 65
or older in 2010 from other states, according to Census Bureau
data compiled by Bloomberg. The town of about 35 square miles,
located between Jacksonville and Tampa and with 39 golf courses,
had an average retirement income of $30,608, ranking it 18th out
of the top 20.  The second ranking included areas with at least 10,000
residents, with 10 percent or more age 65 or older as of 2010.
Bloomberg ranked them by the percentage of elderly residents who
moved there in the prior year from out of state and by the
highest mean retirement income excluding Social Security,
weighting both factors equally to determine the order.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  