-- Romania Seeks $464 Million From Company Stake Sale to Enel
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-07-31T15:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/romania-seeks-464-million-from-company-stake-sale-to-enel-1-.html
Romania  may raise an estimated 377
million euros ($464 million) from the sale of a minority stake
in energy company Electrica Muntenia Sud to its owner, Italy’s
 Enel SpA (ENEL) , this year.  The Bucharest-based Cabinet approved a memorandum today to
go ahead with the sale of a 13.57 percent stake in the power
company to Enel by December, Andrei Zaharescu, a government
spokesman said in a phone interview today. The administration
will hold talks with Enel to conclude the sale, which is part of
an option from a 2008 contract when the Italian company bought a
majority stake in the unit.  Romania is seeking to sell minority and majority stakes in
energy companies to meet pledges to the  International Monetary
Fund  and the European Union and boost state revenue as the
economy entered the second recession in three years in the first
quarter. Electrica Muntenia Sud is a former unit of the
country’s state-owned power distributor  Electrica SA .  “Part of the money obtained from the Electrica unit stake
sale will be used to fund investments and the upgrades needed in
the electricity sector,” Finance Minister Florin Georgescu
said. “Some money will also go, indirectly, to the state
budget.”  Romania’s government holds a 23.57 percent stake in
Electrica Muntenia Sud, while the country’s property fund,
 Fondul Proprietatea SA (FP) , holds a 12 percent stake.  The government can also exercise a contract option to sell
another minority stakes in the Romanian units of  E.ON AG (EOAN)  to its
majority owner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  