-- Romanian Bank Stocks Fall for 2nd Day on Losses: Bucharest Mover
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-07-31T08:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/romanian-bank-stocks-fall-for-2nd-day-on-losses-bucharest-mover.html
Romanian bank stocks fell for a
second day after the country’s return to recession left the two
biggest banks with second-quarter losses.  BRD-Groupe Societe Generale SA (BRD) , the largest publicly traded
bank and the second-biggest in the country after Banca
Comerciala Romana SA, fell as much as 1.2 percent to 8.4 lei in
Bucharest today before paring losses.  Banca Transilvania SA (TLV) ,
Romania’s second-largest traded bank, declined as much as 1.5
percent to 0.985 lei, before recovering.  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,
the owner of BCR, dropped as much as 2 percent to 67.3 lei and
was down 1.5 percent to 67.7 lei.  “The second-quarter earnings have negatively surprised the
market so the decline in stocks is justified,” said Andrei
Radulescu, an analyst at Bucharest brokerage SSIF Broker SA.
“As the deterioration of the economic environment because of
internal political turmoil and the European crisis continues,
the third quarter could also be very bad for banks, which
haven’t yet reached the bottom.”  BCR,  Romania ’s biggest bank by assets, reported today its
second consecutive quarter of losses because of higher bad-loan
costs as the economic contraction made it difficult for citizens
and companies to repay back loans, prompting owner Erste to cut
costs.  BRD said yesterday its first-half profit fell 88 percent to
39.4 million lei ($10.6 million) from 322.6 million lei a year
earlier on rising bad-loan provisions, resulting in a quarterly
loss of about 44 million lei in the second quarter after a
profit of 83.4 million lei in the January-March period,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  “BRD’s results are disastrous considering the bank’s
capacity to generate profit until now,” Radulescu said.  Banca Transilvania is expected to release its first-half
earnings tomorrow.  Transilvania shares were trading up 1 percent at 1.01 lei
as of 10:42 a.m. in Bucharest. BRD shares were unchanged at 8.5
lei.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  