-- Romney’s Running Mate Roll-Out Offers an ‘App’ for That
-- B y   M a r k   S i l v a
-- 2012-07-31T18:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/romney-s-running-mate-roll-out-offers-an-app-for-that.html
Mitt Romney ’s latest app is aptly
named “Mitt’s VP” -- his venue for naming a running mate.  The Republican Party’s presumptive presidential nominee’s
campaign said today the smart-phone set will see the first
public word of Romney’s candidate for vice president on
applications being distributed for free at his website.  “The historic announcement is getting closer,” Beth
Myers, the Romney adviser leading his search for a running mate,
said in an e-mail announcing the app.  The announcement that an announcement is near also serves
to steer attention from Romney’s tour of Europe and Israel,
marked by criticism of the candidate’s comments on Olympic Games
security preparations in London and the relative economic
development of Israel and the Palestinian territories.  The campaign’s plans for identifying Romney’s No. 2 are
reminiscent of President Barack Obama’s announcement of his
running mate, Vice President  Joe Biden , in 2008. Identifying the
method for that disclosure in advance, Obama’s campaign sent
late-night  text messages  about Biden to cell phones.  Romney’s app comes with a “push notification” that will
enable followers to spread the word on social networks.  “Users of this app will be the first to get the news on
the biggest political decision of the year,” Zac Moffatt, the
Romney campaign’s digital director, added in the e-mail.  Myers already has offered some social-networking advice on
potential running mates with two Twitter messages last week
naming 13 Republicans. Those messages from Myers included names
often mentioned as possible candidates, including Senator  Rob Portman  of Ohio and former Governor  Tim Pawlenty  of Minnesota.
They also included names considered by political observers as
longshots, including New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  