-- Rona Rejects C$14.50 Offer From U.S. Retailer Lowe’s
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-07-31T18:29:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/rona-rejects-14-50-offer-from-u-s-retailer-lowe-s.html
Rona Inc. (RON)  said it rejected an
unsolicited offer of C$14.50 ($14.48) a share from U.S. home-
improvement retailer  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  because it wasn’t in the best
interest of its shareholders.  Rona, which operates  Canada ’s largest network with almost
800 of these stores, received the non-binding proposal on July 8
and the board rejected it unanimously, according to a statement
today. The offer is 22 percent higher than Rona’s closing price
yesterday and values the Boucherville, Quebec-based firm at
about C$1.76 billion.  Rona would be Lowe’s biggest takeover, allowing the
retailer to accelerate its expansion in Canada, where it has
opened 31 stores since 2007 to compete with Rona, Canadian Tire
Corp. and  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  of Atlanta.  “Our interest is to do a friendly transaction and look for
a way to create a proposal that fits the needs of their
stakeholders and ours,” Doug Robinson, Lowe’s head of
international operations and development, said by telephone
today from  Montreal .  Lowe’s, based in Mooresville,  North Carolina , said in March
it envisioned operating more than 100 stores in Canada, trailing
competitor Home Depot, which has 180 stores in the country.  Robinson, 53, said Lowe’s is making the case that the
transaction makes sense for both companies and is counting on
Rona investors to “share their views” with Rona’s board.
Lowe’s said institutional  shareholders  representing 15 percent
of Rona’s outstanding shares have indicated support for the
proposal, though Robinson declined to identify which investors.  Shares Surge  Rona  rose  15 percent to $13.64 at 2:05 p.m. in Toronto,
after earlier rising as much as 22 percent, a record intraday
gain. Lowe’s, which has also acquired shares of Rona, fell 5
percent to $25.49 in  New York , for a market value of $30
billion.  Quebec Finance Minister Raymond Bachand said he has asked
the province’s development corporation, Investissement Quebec,
to examine actions to counter Lowe’s offer. This could include
setting up a fund to “defend Quebec’s interests.”  “This transaction does not appear to be in the interests
of either Quebec or Canada,” he said in a statement.  The federal government in Canada has the power to block
takeovers under the Investment Canada Act unless they provide a
“net benefit to the nation.” In 2010, Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s Conservative government blocked BHP Billiton Ltd.’s $40
billion bid for Potash Corp of Saskatchewan Inc.  Lowe’s Robinson said “the lines of communication are wide
open” with the  Quebec  and Canadian governments, and they are
interested in “friendly negotiations.”  Quebec Concessions  Robinson said the takeover bid involved combining its
Canadian business with Rona’s headquarters in Boucherville,
Quebec, and maintaining Rona’s Canadian employment. He said
those concessions don’t detract from the transaction because
Lowe’s is looking to expand into Rona’s home base of Quebec,
where the U.S.-based retailer has no stores.  Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, Canada’s second-
largest pension fund and Rona’s largest shareholder, released a
statement today saying it would balance value creation for its
depositors and shareholders with its mandate to support Quebec
businesses. It stressed the importance of keeping Rona’s head
office in Quebec, the development of the company’s supplier
network in the province and the interests of Rona’s franchisees.  The Montreal-based fund said today it increased its stake
in Rona to about 14 percent from 12 percent, adding 2.43 million
shares at an average price of C$14.17 a share.  Management Rejects  The Canadian home-improvement retailer’s shares previously
surged on April 3 after Lowe’s Chief Financial Officer  Robert Hull  called it “a very interesting company” in an interview
with Reuters and said the U.S. retailer would consider “all
options” if Rona put itself up for sale.  “The management of Rona has been disinclined for awhile
now to accept this transaction,” said Jonathan Brodsky, who
helps manage $9.5 billion at Advisory Research Inc., by phone
from  Chicago . “The provincial government of Quebec has
indicated that it’s reviewing the transaction as well. So of
course we’re looking to a higher bid but we recognize there are
issues to overcome.”  Brodsky, whose firm owns Rona shares, said the price
doesn’t take into account Rona’s brand or operations, and could
go higher.  Rona reported a C$10.9 million loss in the first quarter
after a net loss of C$78.4 million for 2011. In February, the
company announced plans to turn itself around by shifting away
from the big-box format to smaller stores, an overhaul of its
online presence and plans to develop its business supplying
contractors and professionals.  Credit Watch  “Hopefully the turnaround strategy starts to work but at
the same time, while you’re waiting for that here you get a
takeover offer which perhaps mitigates the risk of the strategy
not working or taking longer,” said  Irwin Michael , a  money
manager  at IA Michael Investment Counsel, who holds 3.6 million
Rona shares through various funds, by telephone from Toronto.  Standard & Poor’s Financial Services said it was putting
Rona’s BBB- rating on credit watch “with positive
implications,” and would bring Rona’s rating in line with
Lowe’s should the deal go through.  Lowe’s said the CEOs of the two companies first met a year
ago on July 27, 2011, at Rona’s request. Lowe’s made a proposal
to acquire Rona on Dec. 15, 2011 that was rejected by Rona’s
board.  Rona hired Scotiabank and BMO Capital Markets as financial
advisers and Norton Rose Canada LLP and Davies Ward Phillips &
Vinberg LLP as legal advisers. CIBC and Bank of America Merrill
Lynch are working with Lowe’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Daurat in Wilmington at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net  