-- Rubber Demand in China to Contract 5% as Truck Sales Tumble
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-31T08:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/rubber-demand-in-china-to-contract-5-as-truck-sales-tumble-2-.html
Natural-rubber consumption in  China ,
the world’s largest user, will probably drop this year as
slumping truck sales and slowing economic growth cut demand for
heavy-duty tires, according to the country’s biggest maker.  Usage may contract as much as 5 percent, said Shen Jinrong,
chairman of Hangzhou Zhongce Rubber Co. Shen’s outlook compares
with a forecast in June from Chris Pardey, chief executive at
Singapore-based trading company RCMA Commodities Asia Group, for
a 2.3 percent drop in demand to 3.69 million metric tons.  Lower demand may extend rubber’s 13 percent drop in  Tokyo 
this year as prices dropped for a fifth month in July.  China’s
economy  expanded in the second quarter at the slowest pace in
three years as Europe’s debt crisis hurt exports.  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) ,
the world’s second-biggest maker of  dump trucks , said this month
that demand in China wouldn’t recover this year.  “The country is going through a so-called structural
adjustment, during which passenger-car sales remain robust,
while  truck sales  moderate,” Shen said in an interview on July
26. That’s “a major factor affecting rubber consumption since
the truck sector is the heaviest user,” he said.  The January-delivery contract dropped 1.1 percent to settle
at 229.8 yen a kilogram ($2,937 a ton) on the Tokyo Commodity
Exchange today. This year’s decline means it’s underperformed
the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
including oil and copper, which is 0.2 percent lower.  Truck Tires  “It’s the sales of Truck Bus Radial tires, or TBRs --
particularly those for earthmovers or heavy-duty trucks used in
mining and steel making -- that suffered the most,” Shen said.
In the second half, natural-rubber “prices are likely to
stabilize from here or slide a bit further,” he said.  China’s growth slowed to 7.6 percent in the three months
ended June, the sixth deceleration, as  Europe ’s crisis sapped
exports and a crackdown on property speculation curbed domestic
demand. Sales of trucks in China fell 7 percent in the first six
months as passenger-vehicle sales grew 7.1 percent, according to
data from the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  “We might see the whole tire industry in China still
achieve low single-digit growth in terms of sales this year,”
said Shen, who forecast in March that natural-rubber demand in
China may be flat in 2012 on poor commercial-vehicle demand.  Komatsu Chairman Masahiro Sakane said in a July 19
interview that “I don’t think China will recover this year.”
The company’s sales of excavators in China fell more than half
in the three months to June 30 from a year earlier, President
Kunio Noji said in an interview earlier this month.  Lower Prices  A further 20 percent drop in prices may spur tire makers to
use more natural rubber in products, cutting the share of
synthetic rubber, Shen said. Lower prices may also prompt
Southeast Asian growers to tap less rubber or accelerate
replanting, he said.  Thailand , Malaysia and  Indonesia  are the three largest
natural-rubber producers, accounting for about 67 percent of
global production, according to RCMA data. World output may
expand 3.2 percent to 11.3 million tons this year, according to
the International Rubber Study Group.  A tire for a medium-to-heavy commercial vehicle uses as
much as 18 kilograms (40 pounds) of natural rubber on average,
compared with less than 1 kilogram for a typical passenger-car
tire, according to CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in  Singapore .  China accounts for 33 percent of global demand and tires
represent 70 percent of natural-rubber consumption in the
country, according to Sri Trang ( Shanghai ) Ltd., a unit of
Thailand’s biggest publicly listed producer.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  