-- Russia Says Iran Breaks Sanctions With Caspian Port Takeover
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-07-31T15:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/russia-says-iran-breaks-sanctions-with-caspian-port-takeover-1-.html
Russia is taking legal action to
block companies controlled by  Iran  from acquiring the strategic
Astrakhan port on the  Caspian Sea  in violation of United Nations
sanctions, the Russian competition watchdog chief said.  “We know that these companies, through a certain chain,
are under the direct control of the government or structures
close to the government of the Islamic Republic of Iran,”,  Igor Artemyev , head of the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service, told
reporters in Moscow today. “Ports are strategic assets.”  After the Russian government blocked the deal two years
ago, the Iranian-controlled companies bought a significant stake
in the port, which carries strategic national importance, from
its Russian owners and now control at least 25 percent, Artemyev
said. Russia is working on annulling the deal, which contravenes
United Nations sanctions against Iran imposed over its disputed
nuclear program, he said.  Five nations share the Caspian: Russia, Iran,  Kazakhstan ,
 Azerbaijan  and  Turkmenistan . The five littoral states have
failed to agree on the maritime boundaries of the Caspian Sea
after the disintegration of the former  Soviet Union  in 1991.
Various bilateral disputes over exploring the sea’s oil and gas
resources regularly sour relations between the nations.  Souring Ties  “The Iranians have provoked Russian anger with their
actions here,”  Alexei Malashenko , a Middle East analyst at the
Carnegie Moscow Center, said by phone. ‘Relations are already
difficult.’’  The Russian court has already banned OAO Astrakhan Port
from paying dividends and conducting share transactions, the
service said in the statement. According to the court decision,
the companies affected are Khazar Sea Shipping Lines, South Way
Shipping Agency and Azores Shipping Company L.L.FZE. The
companies, whose contact details were publicly unavailable,
couldn’t be reached for comment.  Russia is part of the so-called P5+1 group along with
China, France, Germany, U.K. and U.S, which is negotiating with
Iran over its nuclear activities. The world powers want the
Iranians to agree to stop producing 20 percent-enriched uranium,
a level of purity a step short of bomb grade, and move current
stockpiles out of the country to show that it isn’t seeking the
capability to produce atomic weapons.  Western powers contend Iran is hiding a nuclear-weapons
program, and the U.S. and  Israel  have declined to discount the
possibility of military strikes against its atomic
installations.  Russia also prohibited in 2010 the sale of Russian weapons,
including S-300s missiles, to Iran after the UN imposed
sanctions against the Islamic republic. Iran has sued Russia for
breach of contract.  At the same time, Russia built Iran’s $1 billion Bushehr
atomic plant, the country’s first, and the country has said it
would like to order new Russian-made nuclear power stations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
To contact the editors responsible
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ; 