-- Russia’s Drought Seen Raising Food Prices and Inflation
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-07-31T11:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/russia-s-drought-seen-raising-food-prices-and-inflation-1-.html
Russia’s drought, which is cutting
grain yields, may increase food prices and push inflation above
the central bank target of 6 percent this year, according to
 Renaissance Capital .  Inflation may reach 6.5 percent “due to the unanticipated,
and temporary, food price shock,”  Ivan Tchakarov , Moscow-based
chief economist for Russia and the  Commonwealth of Independent
States  at the bank, wrote in a report today.  The average wheat yield reached 2.46 metric tons a hectare
(2.47 acres) as of July 26, down from 3.44 tons a hectare a year
earlier, according to Agriculture Ministry data. Russia, which
was the world’s third-biggest wheat exporter last season, has 16
regions affected by drought this marketing year. The country may
ship 12 million tons and drop to fifth place among exporters of
the grain, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Russia exported 27.2 million tons of grains in the season
that ended June 30, according to ministry data. About 21.3
million tons of wheat were shipped, the USDA estimated.  Russia’s grain supply and demand balance “does not point
to dramatic food price increases,” Tchakarov wrote. The country
“should have some spare capacity to export” because on average
it consumes an estimated 72 million tons, he wrote. The
 Agriculture Ministry  expects the harvest to be between 80
million and 85 million tons this season.  Food prices may gain domestically, even though the country
has enough grain to meet needs, Sergey Shvetsov, deputy chairman
of Russia’s central bank, told reporters in Moscow today.  “It’s a global market, right?” he said. “The fact that
we have lots of oil doesn’t mean that it’s any cheaper.”  “If global grain prices rise, then they’re going to rise
inside Russia, too,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  