-- Russia Stocks Decline First Day in Five on Global Growth Concern
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-07-31T15:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/russia-stocks-decline-first-day-in-five-as-crude-oil-retreats.html
Russian stocks fell for the first
time in five days as investors sold riskier assets on concern
global growth may be slowing and as crude oil, the nation’s
chief export earner, dropped.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  retreated 1.5 percent to 1,407.02 by the
close in Moscow, erasing earlier gains of 0.3 percent and
trimming its monthly advance to 1.4 percent. OAO Novolipetsk
Steel, the Russian steelmaker controlled by billionaire  Vladimir Lisin , was the biggest decliner, falling 3.7 percent. Federal
Grid Co. tumbled 3.5 percent as  Russia ’s high-voltage power
transmission monopoly plans to offer 10 billion rubles ($311
million) of domestic bonds.  Crude oil, the nation’s chief export earner, fell as much
as 1.6 percent, before trading at $88.78 in  New York . Oil and
gas contribute about 50 percent of Russia’s state revenue. The
U.S. Federal Reserve and the  European Central Bank  meet this
week as the  International Monetary Fund  said  Europe ’s debt
crisis is likely to be prolonged. German unemployment climbed
and business confidence fell to a two-year low this month, data
showed today.  “Nobody wants to commit to Russia before the central
banks’ meeting,” Tom Mundy, the chief equities strategist at
Otkritie Capital, said by phone from Moscow. “The oil price is
taking its cue from bad earnings and weak unemployment
numbers.”  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, said second-quarter
profit fell 58 percent, missing analysts’ estimates. Deutsche
Bank AG,  Germany ’s biggest bank, said second-quarter earnings at
its investment bank slid 63 percent as revenue from trading and
issuing securities shrank amid Europe’s debt crisis.  MTS, Rosneft  The Fed begins a two-day meeting today as U.S. government
data showed personal spending stagnated in June, while a private
report said  consumer confidence  topped economists’ estimates.  OAO Inter RAO UES tumbled 2.3 percent to 2.6 kopeks, as the
company’s board approved an additional share issue. OAO  Mechel (MTLR) 
declined 1 percent to 196.90 rubles, the most since July 25,
after rallying 6.6 percent yesterday.  OAO Mobile TeleSystems, Russia’s biggest mobile phone
operator, gained 0.9 percent to 247.70 rubles after falling as
much as 1.5 percent as a license halt was extended for three
months at its Uzbekistan unit and the operator’s president
Andrey Dubovskov said the company may take legal action if the
operation’s aren’t resumed.  Rosneft Earnings  OAO Rosneft declined 3.4 percent to 195.44 rubles. The
country’s largest oil producer is due to post second-quarter
earnings tomorrow. VTB Capital sees net income falling 66
percent from the previous quarter on the ruble weakening.  The earnings are “the most important company news this
week for the Russian market,” Mundy said.  Polymetal International Plc (POLY)  dropped 0.7 percent after
rising as much as 2.2 percent earlier in  London . The Russian
silver and gold producer in the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index may
increase its production plan for the year, Chief Executive
Officer Vitaly Nesis said today.  Russian opposition leader Alexey Navalny faces as much as
10 years in jail after being charged with embezzlement today,
marking an escalation in President  Vladimir Putin ’s crackdown on
the biggest unrest of his 12-year rule.  The Investigative Committee increased the severity of the
charges against Navalny, accusing him of defrauding a state
timber company of 16 million rubles ($496,000) in the Kirov
region, the agency said on its website today.  ‘Risk Averse’  “It would not greatly perturb investors already active in
Russia,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Troika Dialog, said
by e-mail. “As always the damage from such events is that it
keeps the larger pool of risk adverse investors outside the
border. Yet these are the investors that Russia needs for the
privatization programme and to raise investment generally.”  The Micex trades at 5.1 times  estimated earnings , having
gained 0.3 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
9.8 times for companies in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index,
which has added 4.2 percent this year.  Russian equities have the cheapest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  