-- Samsung Lawyer Can’t Undo Apple Trial Evidence Ruling
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/samsung-can-use-some-evidence-from-former-apple-designer-1-.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  again lost
its bid to use evidence a lawyer for the company described as
“critical” to rebutting Apple Inc.’s central allegations in a
patent-infringement trial in  California .  Samsung was barred by U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San
Jose  from presenting images of a smartphone that it claims to
have been developing in 2006, the year before Apple introduced
the iPhone. Samsung said in a filing that the images show
evidence that it was developing the next generation of mobile
phones with a “simple, rounded rectangular body” before
Apple’s January 2007 announcement of the iPhone.  Before jurors heard opening arguments in the trial
yesterday, John B. Quinn, a Samsung lawyer, asked Koh to
reconsider her July 30 decision barring the evidence.  Quinn, who said he had never begged in court in more than
30 years of practicing law, told Koh that he was “begging
now.”  Koh rejected the request for what she said was at least the
third time.  “We’ve done three reconsiderations on this and we have a
jury waiting,” Koh told Quinn. “You’ve made your record.”  “Don’t make me sanction you, please,” Koh said when Quinn
persisted with his argument. “I want you to sit down please.”  Samsung Statement  Samsung said in an e-mailed statement that Koh’s ruling
means “Samsung was not allowed to tell the jury the full story
and show the pre-iPhone design for that and other phones that
were in development at Samsung in 2006, before the iPhone.”  “The excluded evidence would have established beyond doubt
that Samsung did not copy the iPhone design,” the Suwon, South
Korea-based company said in the statement.  Samsung’s statement included attachments of the evidence
that Koh had excluded, prompting a demand from Koh for an
explanation of who drafted and issued the release. Koh told
lawyers representing Samsung that she wanted a statement from
Quinn explaining his role in issuing the statement.  Harold McElhinny, a lawyer for Apple, told Koh the release
was “on perception an intentional attempt to pollute this
jury” rising to “contempt of court.”  Earlier yesterday, Koh ruled Samsung can use some evidence
from a former Apple designer to rebut the infringement
allegations.  The designer, Shin Nishibori, helped create a model phone
influenced by  Sony Corp. (SNE) , and his testimony will explain how the
model “changed the course of the iPhone’s development,”
according to a Samsung court filing. Koh said the company could
use it to demonstrate “functionality.”  $2.5 Billion Claims  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, seeks $2.5 billion
for its claims that Samsung infringed patents covering designs
and technology for mobile devices.  Samsung countersued and will present claims that Apple is
infringing two patents covering mobile-technology standards and
three utility patents. Samsung is demanding royalties of as much
as 2.4 percent for each device sold, according to a court
filing.  Nishibori’s evidence would support Samsung’s “independent
creation story” by proving the “design elements found in
Samsung’s phones were not taken from Apple, but were known to
other designers in the field,” according to the filing. The
company sought to use e-mails and computer design images.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  