-- San Francisco Gasoline Jumps After Valero Shuts Unit
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-07-31T22:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/san-francisco-gasoline-jumps-after-valero-shuts-unit.html
Gasoline in  San Francisco  gained for
a fourth day after  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  said a process unit at
the Benicia refinery in Northern California will remain shut
until the middle of August.  Valero’s 170,000-barrel-a-day Benicia plant took the fluid
catalytic cracker, which upgrades heavy gasoil into gasoline and
other lighter products, out of service July 26 to repair a
compressor. The company expects to return the cracker back to
service “by mid-August,”  Bill Day , a spokesman at the
company’s headquarters in  San Antonio , said in an e-mail.  California-blend, or Carbob, in San Francisco advanced 0.75
cent to 13.75 cents above gasoline futures on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the highest level for the fuel in a month. The
gain capped a monthly advance of 6.25 cents a gallon, the
largest since April.  Carbob in  Los Angeles  jumped 3.75 cents to 13.75 cents a
gallon above futures, also the strongest in a month.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  plans to flare gases at the Torrance
refinery in  Southern California  from tomorrow through Aug. 21, a
filing with the  South Coast Air Quality Management District 
showed. The flaring is related to scheduled maintenance on a
storage tank, Gesuina Paras, an Exxon spokeswoman at the
Torrance refinery, said in an e-mailed statement late today.  “No impact to production is expected,” she said.  California-blend diesel, or CARB diesel, in San Francisco
was unchanged at a premium of 8 cents a gallon versus Nymex
heating oil futures, the highest level since May 16. CARB diesel
in Los Angeles was unchanged at 6 cents a gallon above futures.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
jumped 11 cents to a premium of 3 cents a gallon versus Nymex
gasoline futures. Low-sulfur diesel  there  was unchanged at 10.25
cents above heating oil futures.  BP Plc (BP/)  reported a process unit trip at the 234,000-barrel-
a-day Cherry Point refinery in  Washington , a filing with the
U.S. National Response Center showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  