-- Saudi Minister Says Shiite Cleric a ‘Dubious Person,’ SPA Says
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-07-31T08:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/saudi-minister-says-shiite-cleric-a-dubious-person-spa-says.html
Saudi Interior Minister Prince Ahmed
bin Abdulaziz described dissident Shiite cleric Nimr al-Nimr as
a “dubious person scholarly and mentally,” the  Saudi Press
Agency  reported.  “His claims demonstrate a lack of reason,” Prince Ahmed
was cited as saying yesterday by the kingdom’s official news
service. The prince also said that the state wouldn’t tolerate
any threat to its security, the news service reported.  Saudi security forces arrested al-Nimr in the al-Qatif area
of the oil-rich  Eastern Province , the Saudi Press Agency
reported on July 8, citing an Interior Ministry spokesman.
Security forces shot and injured al-Nimr during clashes with his
supporters in the village of Awwamiya as he tried to escape, it
said.  While Sunni-majority  Saudi Arabia  largely escaped the
unrest that spread across the Arab world last year, minority
Shiite protesters have clashed with security forces in Awwamiya,
al-Qatif and other eastern towns. Two Shiite men were killed in
protests after al-Nimr’s arrest and another died about five days
later during an attack on a police station in Awwamiya.  “There are groups marred with irregularities,” Prince
Ahmed was cited as saying by the Saudi news service. “If the
danger is confined to al-Nimr, it is his own business, but if it
exceeds the limits, violates others’ rights or bypasses the
security of the state, it should be necessary to put an end to
such an unacceptable violation.”  Awwamiya, a village north of al-Qatif on the  Persian Gulf ,
was the scene of much larger demonstrations in 2009 after police
sought to arrest al-Nimr, who had said in a sermon that Saudi
Shiites may be able to seek a state of their own in the future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  