-- Saudi $60 Billion Debt-Financed Hub Will Triple Traffic: Freight
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-07-31T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/saudi-60-billion-debt-financed-hub-will-triple-traffic-freight.html
Saudi Arabia  is spending more than
$60 billion on a logistics hub, airport improvement and roads to
reduce travel time in the Arab world’s biggest economy.  The investments also yielded the largest sukuk, or Islamic
bond, offered in the Middle East this year and an initial public
offering on the stock exchange in June.  “There is a large infrastructure boom happening in Saudi
Arabia,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief economist at Jeddah-based
 National Commercial Bank , said in a phone interview on July 30.
“Once they create these sukuk instruments, they cut their
reliance on direct government funding and make it possible to
buy into the projects. This policy benefits the government and
investors.”  The world’s top oil exporter is spending $500 billion to
build  power plants , schools, roads and other facilities to
modernize the country and create jobs for youth. Earlier this
month, the kingdom’s Ministry of Transportation signed contracts
valued at 4.4 billion riyals ($1.2 billion) to build new roads
and maintain and operate existing ones.  Saudi Arabia’s economy is forecast to expand 4.8 percent
this year, the fastest rate after Qatar among the six Gulf
Cooperation Council states, according to an April survey of
economists compiled by Bloomberg. Net foreign assets of the
 kingdom’s central bank  increased 20 percent in June to 2.2
trillion riyals from a year earlier, central bank data show.  Under the $53 billion five-year aviation investment
program, the government plans to triple passenger traffic at
 Riyadh ’s King Khaled International Airport to 25 million people,
build an airport in Jazan in the southwest and renovate other
airports.  Debt Debut  The efforts to build a modern logistics and transportation
system also spawned the single biggest debt debut in the  Middle
East  this year to help fund expansion work on the international
airport in Jeddah on the  Red Sea .  The  General Authority for Civil Aviation  in January sold 15
billion riyals ($4 billion) of Islamic bonds and plans to issue
a second tranche to fund airport expansion. The 10-year notes,
which comply with Islam’s ban on paying interest, will pay a
profit rate of 2.5 percent.  “The aviation sukuk is paying next to nothing,” Asim Bukhtiar, head of research at Riyad Capital, said in a phone
interview. “The demand has been very strong.”  Qatar raised the same amount, $4 billion, in an Islamic
bond sale last month, two people familiar with the transaction
said.  Saudi Airlines Catering Co. (CATERING)  in June offered 24.6 million
shares, or 30 percent of its total shares, according a statement
posted on the Capital Market Authority’s website. The stock has
risen 17 percent since it started trading on July 9.  Cargo Traffic  “The government realized that instead of putting money
into projects itself, it was better to involve professional
institutions, which can best ensure progress,” Murad Ansari,
Riyadh-based analyst at investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE,
said in a phone interview.  The volume of cargo and mail through the kingdom’s airports
increased 13 percent in 2011 to 641,896 tons from the year
earlier period, according to the civil aviation authority.
Riyadh handled the most cargo at 274,342 tons, while Jeddah
followed at 265,629 tons, the authority said.  The cost of insuring Saudi debt against default for five
years fell to 103.5 basis points on July 25, the lowest since
Oct. 28, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-
default swaps on the country were little changed at 107 basis
points today.  Airport Expansion  The kingdom’s 2012 budget includes 35.2 billion riyals for
transportation projects, according to the Ministry of Finance.
They include financial appropriations to expand King Khalid
International Airport and build 4,200 kilometers (2,600 miles)
of roads in addition to 28,100 kilometers already under
construction, the ministry said.  “Transportation infrastructure is an important enabler of
growth,” Kotilaine said. “They are trying to create a national
transportation network that links more of the country
together.”  Saudi Arabia said on July 30 it had shortlisted four groups
to submit bids to build an electrical subway train network
linking major areas of Riyadh. The 175-kilometer electrical rail
link will connect its airport with other parts of the city,
including the new King Abdullah Financial Center, according to
the website of  ArRiyadh Development Authority .  The first group, led by  France ’s  Vinci SA (DG) , includes Siemens
AG of  Germany  and Saudi Arabia’s Almabani General Contractors
Co., the official Saudi Press Agency reported. The second is
headed by Canada’s  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  and includes Saudi Arabia’s
Al Rajhi Holding Group and South Korea’s  GS Engineering &
Construction Corp. (006360)  The third group includes Samsung C&T Corp.,
while the fourth is led by Strabag SE, central  Europe ’s biggest
construction company.  Dreamliner Order  In April, TAV Insaat, a Turkish builder, won a contract
with partners worth $800 million to construct and maintain
hangars at King Abdul Aziz international airport in Jeddah.
 Boeing Co. (BA)  delivered one 777 ER300 aircraft to Saudi Arabian
Airlines Co., also known as Saudia, in June. And Boeing has an
order to deliver eight Boeing 787-9 Dreamliners.  Domestic flights are currently limited to Saudia and
discount carrier National Air Services. Sama, a discount carrier
that had competed with National Air, collapsed in 2010 after
only three years of operations. With  travel demand  increasing as
the population of 28 million grows by 3 percent annually, the
government plans to issue a license for a third carrier.  “Since Sama closed down it has been difficult to get
flights to Jeddah on the weekends,” Ansari said. “The idea
that this new airline, whoever is going to be licensed, will be
allowed to fly domestic routes also tells you there is a need
for more operators in the domestic space.”  Domestic Competition?  Domestic airline traffic last year jumped 19 percent, more
than the increase in international and domestic together of
almost 14 percent to more than 54 million, according to the
aviation authority’s website.  Qatar Airways Ltd. and  China ’s  Hainan Airlines Co. (600221)  are
among carriers vying to offer domestic flights in Saudi Arabia
after an initial 14 applicants were cut to a shortlist of seven,
the kingdom’s aviation regulator said.  Qatar Air Chief Executive Officer Akbar Al Baker said on
July 3 that the carrier was interested in establishing a Saudi
offshoot only if the government there agreed to a “fundamental
rethink” of aviation policies, including fare controls and
“excessive” fuel charges.  “Any airline within Saudi is pretty fettered domestically
by having fare controls imposed upon them, which doesn’t make
good commercial business sense,” said  John Strickland , director
of JLS Consulting in  London . “It is a big country, a big market
both for domestic travel and travel in and out of Saudi for
business and leisure. The potential is there for liberalization
to really expand that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Dubai at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  