-- SEC Seeks Improved Disclosure for Municipal-Bond Market
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-07-31T15:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/sec-seeks-improved-disclosure-for-municipal-bond-market.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission said it plans to seek power to force better
disclosures from states and cities participating in the $3.7
trillion municipal-bond market.  In a report released today following a two-year review, the
SEC said Congress should let it set standards for what
information municipalities must disclose to investors and
require issuers to have audited financial statements. It also
recommends seeking better ways to ensure that borrowers comply
with disclosure rules and eliminating exemptions for
nongovernmental entities that tap the market.  “The municipal  securities market  is the bedrock for
funding of local government projects throughout our country,”
SEC Chairwoman  Mary Schapiro  said in a statement. “It is
essential that the market work well and that investors have
confidence in it.”  The municipal market has drawn heightened scrutiny as local
governments have struggled with diminished tax collections and
rising pension obligations in the aftermath of the longest
recession since the 1930s.  Borrowers in the market, which finances public works as
well as projects such as hospitals, real-estate developments and
retirement homes, have long faced looser disclosure rules than
those faced by corporations that raise money from investors.
Governments aren’t required to file documents with regulators,
as corporations do, and annual financial reports are frequently
filed well after the year ends.  The SEC’s release marks the latest effort by regulators to
overhaul the market, which was roiled during the 2008 credit-
market crisis, when the unraveling of derivative-laden
financings cost governments billions. An investigation by the
 Justice Department  has also revealed how bankers rigged bidding
on investment contracts sold to states and cities, boosting
their profits at taxpayer expense.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ; 