-- SEC Loses Lawsuit Against Ex-Citigroup Official Stoker
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-08-01T04:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/sec-loses-lawsuit-against-ex-citigroup-official-brian-stoker.html
Former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  official Brian
Stoker defeated the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in a
trial involving a deal at the center of the bank’s proposed $285
million settlement with regulators over subprime residential
mortgage securities.  The jury reached its verdict yesterday in  Manhattan  federal
court. The SEC accused Stoker, the former director of
Citigroup’s collateralized debt obligation structuring group, of
violating  securities law  in putting together the assets
underlying a $1 billion CDO-squared, or a CDO made up of CDOs.  The SEC claimed New York-based Citigroup structured and
sold the CDO in 2007 without telling investors that it helped
pick about half the underlying assets and was betting they would
decline in value by taking a short position.  “This verdict should not deter the SEC from continuing to
investigate the financial industry, to review current
regulations, and modify existing regulations as necessary,” the
jury said in rendering its decision that Stoker wasn’t liable.  Stoker’s trial featured testimony from several people who
worked on the CDO-squared investment, which was named “Class V
Funding III.” His lawyers argued that the purchasers were
sophisticated investors that weren’t misled about Citigroup’s
interest in the security.  The SEC was seeking to have Stoker disgorge profits from
the deal and pay a fine.  ‘Financial Crisis’  “We respect the jury’s verdict and will continue to
aggressively pursue misconduct arising out of the financial
crisis,”  Robert Khuzami , director of the SEC’s enforcement
division, said in a statement.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who oversaw the trial, last
year rejected Citigroup’s $285 million settlement with the SEC,
in which the bank wasn’t required to admit any liability. That
ruling is on appeal.  “We agree with the jury’s verdict, and hope to secure
final judicial approval of our settlement with the SEC and put
this matter behind us,” Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman
for Citigroup, said in a statement.  Jurors began deliberating July 30 at the end of a trial
that started July 16.  Rakoff announced the verdict in the Stoker case yesterday
during a break in the trial of Whitman Capital LLC founder Doug Whitman on insider trading charges.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stoker, 11-cv-7388, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Grannis in Manhattan federal court.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  