-- Senate Defense Panel Approves $604.5 Billion Bill
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-07-31T21:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/senate-defense-panel-approves-604-5-billion-bill.html
The U.S. Senate panel that oversees
defense spending today approved a $604.5 billion spending
package for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1 that includes $380
million for a Lockheed Martin Corp.-led international mobile
missile defense program.  The measure approved by the Senate Appropriations
subcommittee on defense also includes war spending. On July 19
the House passed legislation giving the Pentagon $607.1 billion
in the 2013 fiscal year for weapons purchases, personnel and war
operations in Afghanistan, or about $2 billion more than
requested by the Obama administration.  The panel backed the full F-35 jet request and added $777
million for a second Virginia-class submarine to be bought in
2014 to be built by  Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII)  of
 Newport News , Virginia, and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  of  Falls
Church , Virginia. The House bill contains similar submarine
funding.  The full Senate Appropriations Committee is to take up the
panel’s recommendation on Aug. 2. A floor vote hasn’t been
scheduled.  In one of its most widely watched actions, the Senate
subcommittee approved $380 million for the Lockheed Martin-led
Medium Extended Air Defense System, or MEADS. The three other
defense panels that authorize and appropriate defense dollars
denied the funding.  Panetta’s Request  Congressional critics say the system, designed to intercept
medium-range ballistic missiles, cruise missiles and drones, has
been plagued by cost overruns and performance failures. Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  last month wrote to Senator Daniel Inouye, the Hawaii Democrat who is chairman of both the full
appropriations committee and the defense subcommittee, urging
that he approve the final installment.  “Funding this final year of MEADS development is the right
thing to do for the country,” panel member Republican Senator
 Richard Shelby  of  Alabama  said in an e-mail statement.  “Withholding funding at this point would damage our
alliances, expose us to costly and unproductive litigation and
cut us off from access to all the transformational MEADS
technology we have helped to develop,” said Shelby. The North
Atlantic Treaty Organization’s MEADS program office is located
in Huntsville, Alabama.  Still, the Senate panel, in approving $380 million of the
$400 million, directed the Pentagon to decide whether the money
will be used to pay for continued U.S. participation in the
“proof of concept” demonstration or be allocated for costs
associated with ending U.S. participation.  Development of the MEADS program is managed from Orlando,
Florida, by MEADS International Inc., a joint venture of
Lockheed Martin, based in Bethesda, Maryland; Lfk-
Lenkflugkoerpersysteme GmbH, based in Schrobenhausen, Germany;
and MBDA, based in Valenton, France. MBDA is jointly owned by
 BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ,  European Aeronautic Defence and Space Co.  and
 Finmeccanica SpA. (FNC)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  