-- Senate Tax Writers Seek Plan to Revive Lapsed Tax Breaks
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-07-31T19:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/senate-tax-writers-seek-plan-to-revive-lapsed-tax-breaks.html
The U.S. Senate Finance Committee is
trying to reach a bipartisan agreement to continue dozens of
lapsed and expiring tax breaks, including benefits for corporate
research and wind energy.  Committee members met in private late yesterday and are
scheduled to do so again today. Many of the tax breaks,
including the research credit, expired at the end of 2011.  “We’re ready when we’re ready, and we’re getting closer,”
Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat and chairman of the
committee, said today.  Senators disagree on the scope of the package of tax
breaks, and their ability to reach a deal is limited by that
dispute. Also, at the end of this week, Congress plans to recess
until Sept. 10.  Republicans want to limit the bill to provisions they say
have been routinely extended in the past, including the research
credit, an optional deduction for state sales taxes and a break
that lets financial services companies defer taxes on income
they earn outside the U.S.  “It’s all conditioned on how tightly focused the effort
is,” said Senator Richard Burr, a North Carolina Republican.  Democrats have been trying to extend the college tuition
tax credit that expires at the end of this year and revive
renewable energy tax breaks from the 2009 economic stimulus law.  Alternative Minimum Tax  Senator  Charles Schumer , a  New York  Democrat, said his
party wants to ensure that more taxpayers aren’t subject to
paying the alternative minimum tax for the 2012 tax year.  “I think we’re close, but we’re not there yet,” said
Senator  Ben Cardin , a Maryland Democrat, who said there is “no
such thing” as a standard package of so-called extenders.
“Every extender package has been different. There isn’t one
extender package that didn’t have some extra issues in it.”  Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the top Republican on the
committee, said there are several holdups.  If lawmakers can’t agree on a narrow bill extending these
tax breaks, Hatch said, “It will make it even more difficult to
do  tax reform , which everybody admits has to be done.”  The Republican-led House has been reviewing the provisions
to see whether all of them are justified. The House won’t
consider a bill on the miscellaneous provisions until after the
Nov. 6 election, said Representative Patrick Tiberi, an  Ohio
Republican  and senior member of the Ways and Means Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  