-- Singapore Unemployment Falls as Jobs Withstand Shrinking GDP
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-07-31T02:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/singapore-unemployment-falls-as-jobs-withstand-shrinking-gdp-1-.html
Singapore ’s unemployment rate
unexpectedly fell last quarter as construction companies and
manufacturers increased hiring even as the economy contracted.  The seasonally adjusted  jobless rate  fell to 2 percent in
the three months through June from 2.1 percent the previous
quarter, the  Ministry of Manpower  said in a statement today. The
median estimate of nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
was for a rate of 2.2 percent. The economy added 29,200 jobs
last quarter, compared with 27,200 in the previous period.  The Southeast Asian nation’s industrial output and exports
rose more than economists estimated in June, while sales of
homes by property developers such as CapitaLand Ltd. led to a
rebound in private residential prices last quarter. The
government is also building more public housing to meet the
demands of an increasing population, holding up the island’s job
market even as a faltering global recovery hurts growth
prospects from Singapore to  Taiwan .  “We do not expect a sharp deterioration in the labor
market even as the economic outlook remains dotted with risks,”
said  Irvin Seah , a Singapore-based economist at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. “There’s a healthy pipeline of public
transportation and residential projects which is supporting
hiring in the construction sector.”  The services industry added 15,500 jobs last quarter, while
manufacturing companies increased payrolls by 4,500, the report
showed, citing preliminary data. Construction employment rose
9,500 in the three months through June.  The central bank said last week the island’s growth may
fall below 1 percent should the U.S. and Chinese economies slump
and the European crisis worsen significantly. The government
currently predicts gross domestic product will increase 1
percent to 3 percent in 2012.  Singapore’s GDP fell an annualized 1.1 percent in the three
months through June from the previous quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  