-- Sorouh Advances as Developers Net Climbs: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-07-31T11:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/sorouh-second-quarter-profit-climbs-34-as-costs-decline.html
Sorouh Real Estate PJSC (SOROUH) , the Abu
Dhabi developer that’s in merger talks with  Aldar Properties
PJSC (ALDAR) , rallied to the highest close in seven weeks after
quarterly profit jumped 34 percent on lower costs.  The shares gained 1.9 percent to 1.05 dirhams, the highest
since June 11, at the close in Abu Dhabi. Net income in the
second quarter rose to 148.2 million dirhams ($40 million),
Sorouh said in an e-mailed statement today, beating the 52
million-dirham median estimate of  three analysts  compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Sorouh expects recurring income to increase it opens a mall
in Al Ain in the fourth-quarter, Chief Financial Officer Richard Amos told reporters on a conference call today. It will also
hand over the  Al Rayyana  housing project soon and expects to
deliver 375 apartments in a building it bought from Tamouh,
another  Abu Dhabi  developer, he said.  Six analysts  recommend
investors buy the shares, while five say to hold and two suggest
selling, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The quality of earnings continues to improve through the
diversification and strengthening of revenue streams,” Managing
Director Abubaker Al Khouri said in the statement.  The nation’s developers are generally paid in installments
as construction progresses and receive a final sum when the
property is handed over to the buyer. Sorouh’s costs fell 53
percent to 532 million dirhams in the quarter, while revenue
dropped 44 percent to 681 million dirhams.  Home Deliveries  The developer plans to deliver 9,300 housing units this
year and in 2013, including 2,300 in projects for U.A.E.
nationals.  Shares of the company have advanced 24 percent this year,
compared with a 4.3 percent gain in the benchmark  ADX General
Index. (ADSMI)  Sorouh and Aldar, Abu Dhabi’s biggest developer by market
value, are exploring a merger with the support of the
government, which owns stakes in both developers. The companies
said in June the due diligence process would take months.  Sorouh, which spent 1.5 billion dirhams on projects in the
three months ended June 30, has 2.35 billion dirhams of  debt 
maturing in 2014, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The company
has 1 billion dirhams of cash and has no need to raise funds
this year, Amos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  