-- South Korea’s Inflation Moderates to Slowest in 12 Years
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-08-01T03:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/south-korea-s-inflation-moderates-to-slowest-in-12-years.html
South Korea ’s exports fell the most
since the financial crisis and inflation moderated to a 12-year
low, building the case for more stimulus after an unexpected
interest-rate cut last month.  Exports slid 8.8 percent in July from a year earlier, the
steepest decline since September 2009, Ministry of Knowledge
Economy data showed today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of 15 economists was for a 3.7 percent drop.
Consumer prices increased 1.5 percent, Statistics Korea said.  South Korea’s economy grew at the slowest pace in almost
three years in the second quarter and the central bank has pared
its forecast for the full-year expansion. Industrial production
unexpectedly fell in June, underscoring weakness across Asian
economies as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis caps export demand.  “Such a drop in exports raises the possibility of the
government rolling out stimulus measures,” said Jun Min Kyoo,
an economist at Korea Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul .  South Korea’s bonds rose, building on a run of four monthly
gains on expectations the central bank will cut  interest rates .
The won climbed to a three-month high before a Federal Reserve
meeting ends today, rising 0.2 percent to 1,127.85 at 11:18 a.m.
in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Kospi
Index (KOSPI)  snapped a four-day rally, falling 0.3 percent.  The yield on South Korea’s 3.25 percent notes due June 2015
slid three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.82
percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. That follows a 45
basis point drop in July that was the biggest decline for a
benchmark three-year note since 2008.  Waning Demand  Waning overseas sales have cut profit at some of the
largest companies in South Korea, where exports make up about
half of GDP.  Posco (005490) ,  Asia ’s third-biggest steelmaker by output, said
second-quarter net income declined 44 percent as carmakers and
shipbuilders reduced orders.  SK Innovation Co. (096770) , South Korea’s
biggest oil refiner by market value, reported an unexpected
loss.  The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 16
economists was for 2 percent inflation. Prices fell 0.2 percent
from the previous month, today’s report showed.  “This gives the central bank a big push to lower rates in
the coming months, most likely in September,” said An Ki Tae,
an economist at Woori Investment & Securities. “The inflation
rate will stay low through this year even if electricity prices
rise as oil and metal prices stabilize.”  ‘Sluggish Economy’  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said this week that he will
do “everything I can to find a solution for the sluggish
domestic economy.” Bahk  ruled out immediate additional fiscal
stimulus in a July 16 interview.  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said July 25 that the
nation risks failing to meet a 3 percent growth estimate,
already pared back from a previous forecast. “The economy is
losing steam faster than we expected,” Kim told lawmakers.  Imports declined 5.5 percent in July from a year ago and
the  trade surplus  was $2.75 billion. A high year-earlier base
for comparison contributed to the lower inflation number, along
with stabilizing oil costs and child care provided by the
government, Ahn Hyung Jun, an official at Statistics Korea, said
from Gwacheon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  