-- South America Readies Record Crops Amid U.S. Drought
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e ,   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2012-08-01T15:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/south-america-readies-record-crops-amid-u-s-drought.html
South American farmers are preparing
to plant record grain and oilseed crops that may temper surging
food inflation caused by the worst U.S. drought in a generation.  Argentine farmers, buoyed by rains that alleviated a
drought, will smash a previous corn harvest record of 22 million
metric tons by reaping as much as 31 million tons in the 2012-
2013 season, growers group Crea said July 23.  Brazil  may harvest
its biggest-ever soybean crop in 2012-2013 to surpass the U.S.
as the world’s biggest grower, according to Sao Paulo-based
researcher Agroconsult.  Corn rose to a record $8.205 a bushel in  Chicago  yesterday,
capping the biggest monthly gain since 1988, while soybeans
reached an all-time high on July 23 and surged 15 percent last
month. Corn retreated 1.2 percent today. The response from South
American growers to the worst U.S. drought since 1956 will be
the “turning point” in the corn and soybean rally,  Wayne Gordon , the head of global agriculture markets research at UBS
AG in  New York , said in an interview.  “We are in a great situation,” said Martin Otero, the
owner of Buenos Aires-based farm investment group  Hillock
Capital Management  that owns and manages farmland in Argentina
and Uruguay. “We have very high yield prospects, and there’s a
high probability that prices will be very good.”  Soil Conditions  South America may boost its soybean crop by 30 percent in
the 2012-2013 season as farmers look to cash in on higher prices
and improved soil conditions after a drought last season, said
Karim Cherif, a Zurich-based analyst for Credit Suisse Group AG.  Argentina  and Paraguay are the world’s third- and fourth-
largest exporters, respectively, of the oilseed behind the U.S.
and Brazil. In corn, Argentina, Ukraine and Brazil trail the
U.S. as the largest global exporters of the cereal. South
American farmers start planting corn and soybean crops from
September, while harvesting will take place between February and
June next year.  In the U.S., whose season runs inversely to South America,
the already planted corn crop is “not save-able” in many
areas, economist  Dennis Gartman  wrote in his daily Gartman
Letter. Ninety-four percent of U.S. corn crops have gone through
the silking stage, while only 55 percent of soybean plants are
setting pods, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said July 30.
Both phases are critical for determining yields. Soybeans
typically mature later than corn and damages can be reversed by
rains now, Gartman said.  Much of the U.S. Midwest may remain hot and dry through the
middle of August,  Matt Rogers , Commodity Weather Group LLC
president, said in an e-mail today.  Weather ‘Crucial’  Prices may advance to records on the shortage, said
 Sudakshina Unnikrishnan , an analyst at Barclays Plc in  London .  “I don’t think we’ve seen the top so far,” she said in an
interview. In the U.S. “weather through August is going to be
absolutely crucial.”  The U.S. drought will cause food-price volatility that may
expand hunger to the world’s poor, threatening social stability
and putting pressure on governments, World Bank President Jim
Yong Kim said in a report July 30. French Agriculture Minister
Stephane Le Foll said a surge in grain and soy prices is a
“major preoccupation” worldwide.  “South American farmers will respond to high crop prices
by increasing planted acres,” Juan Luciano, chief operating
officer of Decatur, Illinois-based grains processor Archer-
Daniels-Midland Co. said in a conference call with analysts
yesterday.  Brazilian farmers may plant a record soybean crop because
of prices, the prospect of rain caused by the El Nino weather
phenomenon and its higher profitability than corn, said Silvio Porto, the director of agriculture policy and information at
Conab, the Brazilian government crop-forecasting agency.  Prefer Soybeans  Many Brazilian farmers will sow soybeans instead of corn
because the seeds are cheaper and the cost of transporting from
farms far from the eastern Atlantic coast is cheaper, said
Glauber Silveira, a farmer who is also president of Brazil’s
soybean growers association known as Aprosoja.  “You have more safety with soy, it’s easier to sell in
advance,” said Silveira, who owns farms in Mato Grosso state
that borders the Amazon Jungle. “I have already sold 60 percent
of my crop next year in advance.”  Brazil will plant 27 million hectares (66.7 million acres)
in 2012-2013 to reap a record 78 million-ton soybean crop and
may even surpass that target as growers use record amounts of
fertilizers to maximize yields, said Giovana Araujo, a Sao
Paulo-based analyst at Banco Itau BBA SA.  El Nino  To be sure, farmers across  South America  are counting on
the downpours that arrive with El Nino that warms ocean
temperatures, bringing wetter weather to the grassy plains in
Argentina and Brazil.  The El Nino rains may be less intense than in previous
episodes of the weather phenomenon, said Eduardo Sierra, a
climatologist at the  Buenos Aires Cereals Exchange . Many
Argentine farmers need the heavy downpours that occur during the
so-called Santa Rosa storm at the end of August to sow corn,
said Esteban Copati, an analyst at the exchange.  Argentine farmers are still lobbying the government to ease
export restrictions on food staples such as corn consumed in the
South American country and may grow soybeans instead because
they are not subject to the restrictions, Copati said.  The country’s soybean harvest may rise about 35 percent in
2012-2013 to 56 million tons, UBS’s Gordon said. Output in
neighboring  Paraguay  may almost double to 7.8 million tons in
the 2012-2013 season from 4 million tons a year earlier, the
USDA said March 28.  “The Latin American guys are going to be the turning
point,” Gordon said. “What the condition of their planting is
in October and November will determine the length in the
rally.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net 
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net 
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  