-- South Korean Youth Eschew Samsung Jobs for Facebook Dreams: Tech
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-07-31T00:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/south-korean-youth-eschew-samsung-jobs-for-facebook-dreams-tech.html
Not so long ago, South Korean
students dreamed of lifetime jobs at  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
Now, many are shunning the juggernaut, intent on trying to
emulate the likes of  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s  Mark Zuckerberg .  Sim Cheol Hwan, 27, is typical of the trend. He wants to
take a break from college in  Seoul  to set up a company rather
than line up for job interviews at  Asia ’s biggest electronics
 company  paying an average of 77.6 million won ($68,300) a year.
So he’s set himself up in his own business making apps for
Samsung and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  phones.  “I don’t want to get a job at a top 10 Korean company,”
said the Hanyang University engineering student, who spent two
years in the military. “Zuckerberg’s success proves that there
is a lot of money to be made” in startups.  Thousands of aspiring entrepreneurs like Sim powered an 83
percent surge in the number of technology startups in the four
years to 2011 in  South Korea , where Samsung and Hyundai groups
lead globally in products including phones, TVs and ships.
Mobile downloads are expected to rise 10-fold to $58 billion
between 2010 and 2014, helping lure graduates away from the
decades-old tradition of working at the corporations that helped
pull the country out of poverty after the  Korean War .  “There are risks of failure, but there’s also a merit that
you can personally grow your own business,” said Lee Kap Soo, a
researcher at Samsung Economic Research Institute. “It’s hard
to have a big success like Facebook, but people start their
business with the hope of hitting a jackpot like that.”  Samsung, Hyundai  Software startups in South Korea rose 61 percent between
2007 and 2011, while the number of information and
communications-service providers more than tripled, according to
 Korea Venture Business Association , an agency that supports new
enterprises. Revenue from Internet social media will reach $16.9
billion by the end of this year, according to forecasts by
Gartner Inc., a 43 percent increase from 2011.  Even so, Samsung Electronics is the most favored employer
among South Korean job seekers, followed by carmaker  Hyundai (005380) 
Motor Co., because of its relatively generous salaries,
according to a March survey conducted by SaraminHR Co., an
online job site operator.  The average pay at Samsung Electronics, competing with
Apple for leadership in the global smartphone market, was more
than three times South Korea’s  per capita income  last year,
according to the Suwon-based company’s annual report.  Unhappy Teens  The nation’s top 30 business groups -- led by Samsung,
Hyundai and SK -- employed 6.8 percent of the country’s
workforce last year, according to a June 6 report by the
Federation of Korean Industries.  Samsung Group  alone accounted
for about 20 percent of the national GDP.  In a life-satisfaction study of 32 countries in the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development by the
 World Values Survey Association , South Korea came in 31st.
Surveys by Korean research institutes find that happiness among
teenagers is the lowest in the OECD.  “Everyone used to think if you go to a good college, that
means you’ll get a job at a big conglomerate,” said Kim Dae Ho,
professor of service management at Mokwon University in Daejeon,
South Korea. “Now, people are thinking they can also start
their own company and run it, rather than working for someone
else. The whole environment has changed.”  Yoon Bahn Seok, 31, founded  Darez Inc.  in 2008 with three
friends to offer brand analysis and consulting services, even
though his industrial-design background could have landed him a
job at a conglomerate. Subsequently, he shifted focus to mobile
apps.  Instagram Purchase  “After seeing Facebook take over Instagram, I realized
there’s endless market potential in developing mobile
applications,” he said.  In April,  Menlo Park ,  California-based Facebook , owner of
the world’s biggest social network, agreed to buy Instagram Inc.
photo service for $1 billion.  Another startup is  SesiSoft Co. , a Seoul-based online
personal-computer game publisher set up in 2009 by former
Samsung employees. It plans to expand into mobile games next
year after almost doubling revenue to 10 billion won this year,
Chief Executive Officer Kang Sung Wouk said in an interview.  All these businesses share a common thread: each of their
founders have drawn inspiration from the success of Silicon
Valley startups.  Zuckerberg’s Billions  Zuckerberg, the 28-year-old chief executive officer of
Facebook who started the social-networking service in his
college dorm room, has a net worth of about $12 billion,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , though Facebook
 shares  have dropped 39 percent since the May 17 initial public
offering.  “Hearing these stories enormously motivated me,” said Lim
Hyung Cheol, a 21-year-old college student who last year founded
Gameberry Inc., an app marketing firm that generates as much as
20 million won in revenue in a month. “Right now, I’m focusing
on doing bit by bit with a big vision in mind.”  Some startups have already made it big.  The new app entrepreneurs are taking their place in a long
tradition of South Korean startups. Even Samsung began as a
simple produce and fish exporting business. More recently,  NHN
Corp. (035420) , owner of South Korea’s largest Internet search engine,
was founded in 1999 by a former employee at Samsung SDS Co. and
is now a 13 trillion-won company.  Similarly,  Nexon Corp. (3659) , an online game maker founded by a
graduate school student in 1994, raised $1.2 billion in an IPO
in  Tokyo  last year, making it the second-largest technology or
Internet IPO globally in 2011.  Running for President  Probably the most successful South Korean entrepreneur of
all is Ahn Cheol Soo, founder of  Ahnlab Inc. (053800)  that makes anti-
virus software, and who has been dubbed by the local press as
Korea’s  Bill Gates . His entrepreneurial success propelled him
into the lead as the preferred candidate to become president in
December elections, according to a poll published yesterday. Ahn
is yet to announce whether he will run for president.  The government helps startups by giving them tax incentives
and making it easier to get loans. It also may help reduce
unemployment rates among youths that stood at 8 percent as of
May, more than twice the national average.  “Precious talent shouldn’t go to waste,” President  Lee Myung Bak  said July 9.  Even as Samsung’s recruitment nears, engineering student
Sim has no plan to add a link to the Web page on his browser.  “I don’t think I can maximize my full potential at these
companies,” he said. “Ultimately, any person starting their
own business should think big.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 