-- Korean Olympic Chief Says Timing Error Cost Fencer Medal
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-07-31T14:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/south-korea-s-olympic-chief-says-timing-error-cost-fencer-medal.html
South Korea ’s top Olympic official
said a timing error cost one of his team’s fencers a silver
medal and a shot at gold, ruining four years of preparation for
the London Games. The  international fencing federation  today
called the complaint groundless.  Britta Heidemann of  Germany  beat South Korea’s Shin A Lam
6-5 by scoring a late hit at the end of one minute of extra time
in the women’s individual epee semifinal yesterday.  The hit happened with the timing device stuck on one
second, according to Park Yong Sung, president of the South
Korean Olympic Committee. The fencing federation said in a
statement the hit was within the additional minute.  “It’s a pure mistake, irresponsible,” Park said in an
interview at the ExCel Arena. “It’s killing four years of
work.”  Heidemann, the defending champion who went on to lose the
gold-medal match to Ukraine’s Yana Shemyakina 9-8, told
reporters she would have complained about the decision had she
been in Shin’s situation.  The 29-year-old German fencer said her victory in the
semifinal was still deserved, and that the clock only appeared
not to be ticking down because tenths of seconds weren’t shown.  Floor Protest  Shin, 25, wept as she sat on the  fencing  floor for more
than one hour while as many as 14 federation officials huddled
to discuss the situation and then consider a protest filed by
the South Korean team.  Shin was helped off by two officials after she was informed
that her appeal had been rejected.  “It’s unfair, I should have won,” Shin said through an
interpreter. “I have worked hard for four years.”  She lost the bronze-medal match against  China ’s Yujie Sun
15-11 a few minutes later.  “I couldn’t concentrate fully,” she said.  Frantisek Janda, president of the European Fencing
Federation who wasn’t involved in the ruling, said neither
fencer was to blame for the dispute.  “It’s a very, very unhappy situation,” Janda said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff at the ExCel Arena in London at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  