-- Spotify Added 5 Million Users to Digital Music Service
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-10-11T20:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/spotify-added-5-million-users-of-music-service-since-january.html
(Corrects name of investor in final paragraph of story
published July 31.)  Spotify Ltd. said 5 million more
users have signed up for its advertising-supported music service
since January with the company’s expansion to countries
including  Australia  and  New Zealand .  Spotify also added 1 million paying customers who get ad-
free music accessible on computers and mobile devices,  Ken Parks , chief content officer, said today at a conference in
 London . The company provided details of his remarks.  Spotify is adding new markets, including  Germany , and
features such as incorporating the service on  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and
other social networks to build subscribers. The company released
an application for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad in May and one for  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system last month.  The London-based service has 15 million users of the ad-
supported music service, which is limited to playback on
computers. Spotify has 4 million subscribers paying $4.99 a
month for ad-free access on desktops and laptops or $9.99
including mobile devices.  Spotify has deals with  Sony Corp. (6758)  ’s Sony Music,  Vivendi
SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music, EMI Group and Warner Music Group. Under
those agreements, artists,  record companies  and publishers
receive a cut of ad sales and subscriber fees.  The company faces competition from other subscription
services, including Rdio Inc., as well as online ventures by
 Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s  MTV ,  AOL Inc. (AOL)  and   Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)   Spotify raised $100 million last year from investors
including DST Global,  Accel Partners  and Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers, achieving a valuation of about $1 billion. The
company was raising another $100 million to $200 million from
investors that may include  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , people with
knowledge of the situation said in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  