-- Sting, Madonna, Peter Gabriel Rally Behind Anti-Putin Punk Girls
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-07-31T12:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/sting-madonna-peter-gabriel-rally-behind-anti-putin-punk-girls.html
Music stars including Peter Gabriel,
Sting and Madonna rallied behind three members of a Russian all-
female punk group facing seven years in jail for a protest act
against  Vladimir Putin  in Moscow’s Christ the Savior  cathedral .  Sting, who performed in Moscow and  St. Petersburg  last
week, said it was “appalling” that the Pussy Riot band members
may be imprisoned. “Dissent is a legitimate and essential right
in any democracy and modern politicians must accept this fact
with tolerance,” he wrote on his  website .  Peter Gabriel wrote a letter of support addressed to Maria
Alekhina, 24, Ekaterina Samutsevich, 29, and Nadezhda
Tolokonnikova, 22, which was posted  yesterday  on the Facebook
page of Russian music producer Alexander Cheparukhin. Madonna,
who will give concerts in  Russia  next week, said in an  interview 
on Russian channel NTV she was “sorry” to hear about the
detention of the three women.  The crackdown on the group’s Feb. 21 cathedral stunt, which
was described as “disgusting” by President Putin’s spokesman,
 Dmitry Peskov , reflects efforts to contain the worst political
unrest since the Russian leader came to power 12 years ago.
 Amnesty International  has declared the Pussy Riot three, whose
trial began yesterday, as prisoners of conscience.  Visiting bands the Red Hot Chili Peppers and Franz
Ferdinand have also expressed support for Pussy Riot at concerts
in Russia this month. The band performed what they called a
“punk prayer” in front of the altar at the country’s main
Christian Orthodox place of worship, in masks and wearing skimpy
dresses. “Holy Mother, Blessed Virgin, expel Putin,” Pussy
Riot sang.  ‘Do Everything’  U.K. comedian Stephen Fry today urged his 4.6 million
Twitter Inc. account followers to “do everything to help”
Pussy Riot.  The young women rejected criminal charges of hooliganism at
the start of their trial in a Moscow court yesterday, arguing
that their case should be treated as an administrative
violation, while apologizing for upsetting religious
sensibilities.  Top Russian cultural figures, including Putin supporters,
have also come to their defense. The three defendants have been
ordered to be kept in pre-trial detention until January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  