-- Sugar Drops on Brazil Dry Weather; Cocoa Advances
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-07-31T19:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/sugar-drops-on-brazil-dry-weather-coffee-.html
Sugar fell for the first time in
three sessions as dry weather allowed the harvest to quicken in
 Brazil , the world’s top producer. Cocoa and cotton rose, while
coffee and orange juice dropped.  Sugar production in Brazil’s Center South, the biggest
producing region, rose 2 percent in the first half of this month
as drier conditions sped up fieldwork, Unica, an industry group
said July 25. The country’s main growing areas will get mostly
dry weather in the next 10 days, Sao Paulo-based Somar
Meteorologia said yesterday.  “Brazil’s weather has been tremendous the last two
weeks,” boosting the outlook for output in the second half of
July, Jeff Dobrydney, a vice president for Wilton, Connecticut-
based Jenkins Sugar Group, said in a telephone interview.  Raw sugar for October delivery declined 0.7 percent to
settle at 22.64 cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in
New York. The sweetener jumped 7.8 percent in July, the second
straight advance, after heavy rains in June delayed harvesting
and exports from Brazil.  Cocoa futures for September delivery climbed 1.5 percent to
$2,376 a metric ton, the fifth straight gain and the longest
rally since mid-April. The price rose 3.7 percent in July.  Ivory Coast , the world’s biggest cocoa grower, has sold
about 900,000 tons of beans through auctions where buyers
purchase the crop before the actual harvest that will start Oct.
1, according to an industry official who declined to be
identified because the information isn’t publicly available. The
main crop, which will be put up for sale, may reach 1 million
tons to 1.1 million tons, he said.  “The Ivorian crop is so well sold,” lending support to
prices, Ken Lorenze, a vice president for Jenkins Sugar Group,
said in an e-mail.  Cotton futures for December delivery rose 0.3 percent to
71.34 cents a pound on ICE.  Also in New York, arabica-coffee futures for September
delivery fell 2.2 percent to $1.744 a pound.  Orange-juice futures for September delivery declined 2.1
percent to $1.099 a pound, extending its July slump to 9.7
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  