-- Suntech ‘Not Solvent’ Without Chinese Assistance, Maxim Says
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-07-31T17:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/suntech-not-solvent-without-chinese-assistance-maxim-says.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
Chinese solar-panel producer that said yesterday it may have
been defrauded by an affiliate, will need government
intervention to avoid bankruptcy, an analyst said.  Suntech has about $541 million in debt due in March that it
may struggle to repay, Aaron Chew, an analyst at Maxim Group LLC
in New York, said today in a telephone interview. He lowered his
price target for the world’s largest solar-panel producer to
zero.  The solar company, based in Wuxi,  China , discovered
financial irregularities as it was seeking to sell its stake in
Global Solar Fund S.C.A. Sicar, which is managed by a former
sales representative. That will make it difficult for Suntech to
complete the sale, and questions around the transaction make it
unlikely that it will be able to raise capital from  Wall Street ,
Chew said.  “The government will orchestrate some sort of buyout,”
probably by a state-owned enterprise, Chew said. China doesn’t
“want to see Suntech go away. But it’s not a viable operation
right now. It’s not solvent. It needs to re-cap.” The company
fell 19 percent to $1.08 at 1:18 p.m. in New York.  Suntech guaranteed a 554.2 million-euro ($682 million) loan
from the state-owned lender China Development Bank Corp. to a
GSF backer, with 560 million euros of German bonds as
collateral. Those bonds may have never existed, Suntech said
yesterday.  Chairman Shi Zhengrong defended today the decision to
funnel business in  Europe  through GSF. The affiliate “got
better returns from developing downstream years ago when tariffs
were higher,” Shi said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  