-- Suntech Funding Needs Won’t Be Met by Wall Street, Analysts Say
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-07-31T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/suntech-funding-needs-won-t-be-met-by-wall-street-analysts-say.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
Chinese solar manufacturer that may have been defrauded by an
affiliate, has about $541 million in debt that will come due in
March and won’t get any help from  Wall Street , three analysts
said.  U.S. investors have lost confidence in the world’s largest
solar company after it said it hadn’t verified the existence of
560 million euros ($689 million) in German bonds, Aaron Chew, an
analyst at Maxim Group LLC in New York, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. He lowered his 12-month price target for
Suntech to zero from 50 cents.  Questions about the bonds, used as collateral for a 2010
loan Suntech guaranteed, prompted Suntech to shelve plans to
raise funds by selling its stake in a European solar developer,
and Chew said the company may need intervention from  China  to
avoid bankruptcy.  “There’s no way they’re selling more stock here -- who’s
going to buy it?” Chew said. The Chinese “government will
orchestrate some sort of buyout,” probably by a state-owned
enterprise, because the country doesn’t “want to see Suntech go
away. But it’s not a viable operation right now. It’s not
solvent. It needs to re-cap.”  Suntech’s American depositary receipts fell 16 percent to
$1.13 at the close in  New York , the lowest since they began
trading in December 2005.  Capital Deficit  Suntech is operating with a “significant working capital
deficit,” according to its 2011  annual report  filed in April.
The Wuxi, China-based company’s deficit, representing its total
current liabilities less its total assets, was $523 million at
the end of last year, and it said it needed “additional funding
to sustain our business as a going concern.”  The company’s total short-term debt at the end of last year
was $1.6 billion and its long-term debt was $149 million,
according to the report. Its principal on convertible notes due
next year was $541 million.  “We think the company will never be able to repay its
debt, and we have consistently called the company a poor steward
of investor capital,”  Jesse Pichel , an analyst with Jefferies
Group Inc. in New York, said yesterday in an e-mail. “We have
recommended that investors sell the stock for over a year and
never had a buy.”  Of 28 analysts covering Suntech, 18 rate it a sell and 10
rate it a hold, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. It was
last rated a buy on May 31.  Suntech discovered financial irregularities as it was
seeking to sell its 80 percent stake in Global Solar Fund S.C.A.
Sicar, which is managed by a former sales representative, Javier Romero.  Suntech guaranteed a 554.2 million-euro loan in 2010 from
state-owned lender  China Development Bank  Corp. to a GSF backer,
with the German bonds pledged as collateral. Those bonds may
have never existed, Suntech said July 30, and the planned sale
is on hold.  ‘Weak’ Diligence  “I wouldn’t condemn Suntech management here but it looks
like their due diligence with GSF was weak,” said  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates in Houston.
“It would be exceedingly difficult to sell more shares in the
U.S. and would be at a significant discount to their current
price. Most likely they will get a bridge loan from the CDB or
another lender.”  Chairman Shi Zhengrong defended the decision to funnel
business in  Europe  through GSF. The affiliate “got better
returns from developing downstream years ago when tariffs were
higher,” Shi said in an interview yesterday.  Australian Origins  Shi founded Suntech in 2001 after earning a Ph.D. in
electrical engineering from  Australia ’s University of New South
Wales, and serving as executive director of Pacific Solar Pty.
in Sydney. It was the first Chinese solar company in the 17-
member  BI Global Large Solar (BISOLAR)  index to list its shares on the New
York Stock Exchange, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
and its 2011 sales of $3.1 billion made it the biggest panel
maker in the world.  Prices for solar panels  fell  47 percent in the past year as
waning government support in Europe and the U.S. slowed demand
while expanding production capacity, especially in China,
created a global oversupply.  The China Development Bank since 2010 has made available
$47.3 billion to support the country’s wind and solar
manufacturers, though this  credit line  has not been fully
tapped, according to a Bloomberg New Energy Finance study in
October. Of the $7.3 billion pledged to Suntech, Chew estimates
the company has drawn on less than $1 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  