-- Swiss Group Plans $100 Million Art Vault for Beijing
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-07-31T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/swiss-group-plans-100-million-art-vault-for-beijing.html
Swiss logistics group  Euroasia
Investment SA  plans to build a $100 million tax-free storage
facility next to Beijing Capital International Airport to tap
the booming Chinese art market.  The company is to replicate its  Singapore  Freeport model,
its chairman said. The port has a maximum-security vault for
art, gold and valuables, allowing collectors to store valuables
without paying taxes or filling customs forms.  The Beijing Freeport of Culture project is a joint venture
between Euroasia and state-backed  Beijing Gehua Cultural
Development Group . The project is part of a government
initiative to promote the culture industry and clamp down on art
smuggling.  “There will be a kind of public service in charge of
authentic works getting in and out,” Tony Reynard, chairman of
the Singapore Freeport, said by telephone from Singapore.  The Beijing facility, which is still awaiting its license,
should be ready by the middle of 2014, said Reynard. The
Freeport is planned to be exempt from  import duties , value added
tax and consumption tax, amounting to a 34 percent saving, he
said.  The 83,000 square-meter (893,405 square feet) facility will
be almost three times as large as Singapore’s, where all
available space is fully let, he said.  Auction Space  The site will also include exhibition space designed to
host international auctions, he said. Executives at  Sotheby’s (BID) 
and Christie’s International in Hong Kong were not immediately
available for comment. Neither currently holds auctions inside
 China .  While China boasts more than 1,000 auction houses, the
business is plagued by problems of fakes, smuggling and non-
payment.  Last year, China overtook the U.S. to become the world’s
largest art and antiques market, said a report published by the
Netherlands-based European Fine Art Foundation. Auctions in
mainland China,  Hong Kong , Macau and  Taiwan  raised 9.8 billion
euros ($12 billion) in 2011, said the report.  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts and
 Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 