-- Most Swiss Stocks Slide as UBS Declines; Roche Advances
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-07-31T16:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/swiss-stocks-are-little-changed-ubs-falls-roche-climbs.html
Most  Swiss stocks  fell, after the
country’s equity benchmark yesterday rose to a 13-month high, as
Germany’s  Finance Ministry  said it sees no need to award a
banking license to the euro area’s permanent rescue fund.  UBS AG (UBSN)  slumped 5.9 percent, its biggest slide since
October, after second-quarter profit tumbled and the investment
banking unit of Switzerland’s biggest lender posted a loss.
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Julius Baer (BAER)  Group Ltd. slipped at
least 1 percent.  Roche (ROG)  Holding AG gained 2.1 percent as Helvea
AG upgraded its recommendation for the world’s biggest maker of
cancer drugs.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  slid 0.1 percent to 6,399.27 at the
close in Zurich as more than three stocks dropped for every two
that climbed. The gauge posted a 5.5 percent gain in July, its
biggest monthly jump in three years, as politicians and  European
Central Bank  President  Mario Draghi  pledged to preserve the
euro. The SMI has  rallied 12 percent from this year’s low  on
June 4. The broader Swiss Performance Index also lost 0.1
percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the SMI was 7.9 percent lower than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The rules governing the European Stability Mechanism don’t
call for the fund to get a banking license so that it can
refinance at the European Central Bank, the German Finance
Ministry said today in an e-mailed response to a question on a
newspaper report. The ministry said it isn’t holding talks on
giving a license to the ESM.  FOMC Meeting  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will probably not announce a
third round of large-scale asset purchases this week, and is
more likely to wait until September to unveil a plan to buy $600
billion in housing and government debt, according to the median
estimates of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Eighty-eight percent of economists said the  Federal Open
Market Committee  will refrain from resuming purchases at a two-
day meeting beginning today. Forty-eight percent said the FOMC
will announce the buying at its Sept. 12-13 meeting, according
to the July 25-27 survey of 58 economists.  A Commerce Department report in Washington showed that
Americans remained cautious about spending in the final month of
the second quarter. Purchases were unchanged after a 0.1 percent
decrease in May that was previously reported as unchanged.
Economists in a Bloomberg News survey had predicted a 0.1
percent increase. Incomes climbed 0.5 percent, lifting the
 savings rate  to 4.4 percent, its highest in a year.  UBS Slumps  UBS sank 5.9 percent to 10.29 Swiss francs, posting the
biggest drop in a  gauge of European lenders . Net income declined
to 425 million Swiss francs ($434 million) from 1.02 billion
francs a year earlier, the Zurich-based bank said in a
statement. That missed the 1.09 billion-franc  mean estimate of
11 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.  The investment bank had a pretax loss of 130 million francs
in the second quarter, including a 349 million-franc loss tied
to the Facebook Inc. share sale. UBS said it will cut risk-
weighted assets at the unit by more than previously planned.  Credit Suisse, the country’s second-largest lender,
retreated 1 percent to 16.66 francs.  Julius Baer  dropped 1.6
percent to 35 francs after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut the
wealth manager to neutral from buy.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s biggest watchmaker, lost 2.1
percent to 388.70 francs, while Cie. Financiere Richemont SA,
the owner of the Cartier and Dunhill brands, decreased 2.7
percent to 55.45 francs.  Roche added 2.1 percent to 173.30 francs after Olav Zilian,
an analyst at Helvea, raised the stock to accumulate from
neutral, meaning that investors should buy the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  