-- U.K. Wheat Survey Finds 97% Shows Fungal Blight Signs
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-31T16:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/u-k-wheat-survey-finds-97-shows-fungal-blight-signs.html
U.K. winter-wheat tests found 97
percent of samples showed signs of fusarium head blight, a
fungal disease encouraged by wet weather that can reduce yields
and produce grain-spoiling toxins.  Most of the symptoms in the surveyed samples were caused by
fungal species that don’t produce toxins, CropMonitor wrote in a
 report  on its website. The toxin risk for the U.K. was rated
moderate to high, it said.  The U.K. is the European Union’s third-largest wheat
grower. The country’s harvest will be as much as 10 days delayed
this year after wet weather and a lack of sunshine slowed plant
development this year, the Agriculture and Horticulture
Development Board reported last week.  “Despite being wet in June, the weather was also very
cool, which appears to have favored fusarium species that don’t
go on to produce mycotoxins just before harvest,” the U.K.’s
National Farmers Union wrote in an online statement today.  The U.K. received more rain in the first two weeks of July
than it normally gets in all of the month, according to the  Met
Office . That followed the country’s wettest June since records
began in 1910, and the coolest temperatures since 1991.  Fusarium head blight can be caused by the fungus fusarium
graminearum, which produces a mycotoxin called deoxynivalenol,
also known as vomitoxin. Pigs may refuse to eat grain with the
toxin, and humans eating flour made from contaminated wheat may
experience fever, headaches and vomiting, according to the
 American Phytopathological Society .  Fungal head blight can cause “severe” crop losses, and is
estimated to have cost U.S. wheat and barley farmers more than
$3 billion since 1990, according to the society.  Toxin-Producing Species  CropMonitor said 90 percent of wheat samples collected from
five sites across  England  have been assessed, with the specific
pathogens causing the head blight symptoms identified for 37
percent of the samples.  Fusarium graminearum was found in 19 percent of the
samples, while fusarium culmorum, another toxin-producing
species, was present in 7 percent of wheat surveyed.  “To date, the South West appears to have the highest risk
of mycotoxin contamination,” CropMonitor wrote. “The level of
rainfall between now and harvest will determine the level and
type of mycotoxin contamination in grain.”  In the South West region, 29 percent of samples were
contaminated with fusarium graminearum, similar to infection
levels in 2007 and 2008 of 33 percent and 24 percent,
respectively, CropMonitor wrote.  CropMonitor is a service run by the Food and Environment
Research Agency, and partners include the Home-Grown Cereals
Authority, the Association of Independent Crop Consultants and
 Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s crop-chemical and seeds unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  