-- U.K. Stocks Retreat on BP Earnings, German ESM Comments
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-07-31T16:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-before-fed-meeting.html
U.K. stocks  retreated, paring their
second monthly advance, as  BP Plc (BP/)  reported results that missed
estimates and Germany’s  Finance Ministry  said it sees no need to
give Europe’s permanent bailout fund a banking license.  BP lost 4.4 percent, the most in eight months, after
Europe’s second-largest oil company posted a net loss for the
second quarter.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  led a retreat in banks, falling 1.5
percent.  CRH Plc (CRH)  tumbled 5.8 percent, the most since November.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  lost 58.35 points, or 1 percent, to
5,635.28 at the close in London, trimming this month’s gain to
1.2 percent. The gauge has  climbed 7.1 percent from its 2012 low
on June 1 , boosted by pledges from  European Central Bank 
President  Mario Draghi  to preserve the euro. The broader FTSE
All-Share Index also fell 1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ
Index retreated 0.9 percent.  “Confidence and sentiment are being slowly eroded away by
the dire state of affairs in the periphery” of Europe, said
Simon Denham, managing director at Capital Spreads in London.
“Despite the markets getting excited about the prospects of
fresh stimulus, the trickle down to confidence and the man on
the street won’t materialize for months to come.”  Stocks extended losses after Germany’s Finance Ministry
said the rules of the European Stability Mechanism don’t foresee
a banking license to allow refinancing at the European Central
Bank. They said they are holding no talks on the topic.  ESM License  ECB council member Ewald Nowotny earlier this month said
there were arguments in favor of giving the ESM a banking
license. Granting a permit to Europe’s permanent bailout fund
would give it access to ECB lending, easing concerns that its
500 billion-euro ($616 billion) cash pot won’t be enough if
Spain or Italy require aid.  In the U.S., Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will
this week probably refrain from announcing a third round of
large-scale asset purchases, according to the median economist
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The  Federal Open Market
Committee , which begins its two-day meeting today in Washington,
is more likely to wait until a meeting on Sept. 12-13 to unveil
plans to buy $600 billion in housing and government debt,
according to the survey.  BP slid 4.4 percent to 425.05 pence after reporting a net
loss of $1.4 billion, including impairment charges totaling $4.8
billion as the company wrote down the value of U.S. assets.  Adjusted quarterly earnings  fell to $3.7 billion from $5.7
billion a year earlier, the company said. The average estimate
of analysts in a Bloomberg survey had called for a profit of
$4.6 billion.  Banks Drop  Barclays paced a selloff banks, falling 1.5 percent to 168
pence,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  dropped 3.8 percent to
213.7 pence and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s largest bank, slid
1.7 percent to 533.9 pence.  The Wall Street Journal said RBS has held talks with
officials about settling interest-rate rigging allegations. The
report cited unidentified people familiar with the matter.  CRH, the world’s second-biggest building-materials maker,
tumbled 5.8 percent to 1,160 pence in London, falling for the
first time in five days.  German competitor HeidelbergCement AG sank 1.9 percent in
Frankfurt after saying there is no medicine against
“significant” market weakness in Europe.  LSL Property Services Plc (LSL)  plunged 13 percent to 220 pence,
the largest drop since 2008, after reporting a loss and saying
it plans to sell real estate to help pay for professional
indemnity claims stemming from valuations.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  led advancing shares, gaining 5.2
percent to 976 pence. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization increased to $1.34 billion in the
three months through June, from $1.05 billion a year earlier,
the company said, as newly acquired Cairn India Ltd. added to
profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  