-- U.S. Judge Rules for Janvey in Stanford Asset Dispute
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-07-31T21:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/u-s-judge-rules-for-janvey-in-stanford-asset-dispute.html
R. Allen Stanford’s U.S. court-
appointed receiver defeated a bid by Caribbean court-appointed
liquidators to wrest control of the collection of his assets for
liquidation and distribution to his creditors.  U.S. District Judge David Godbey of  Dallas  ruled the legal
epicenter of Stanford’s $7 billion international fraud scheme
was in the U.S., even though the  Texas  financier’s Stanford
International Bank Ltd. was in Antigua.  “Stanford employees managed and directed the CD enterprise
from the  United States  with no meaningful input from Antigua,”
Godbey said yesterday in a 60-page ruling posted on the court’s
electronic docket today.  Stanford in March was found guilty of running a $7 billion
fraud involving certificates of deposit issued by his Antiguan
bank and sold in the U.S. by the Houston-based securities firm,
Stanford Group Co. He is serving a 110-year prison sentence.  The 20-year scheme involved more than 20,000 investors
worldwide.  Ralph Janvey, the Dallas lawyer appointed in February 2009
to wind down Stanford’s affairs when he was sued by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, has primacy over rival
liquidators Hugh Dickson and Marcus Wide of Grant Thornton
International Ltd., Godbey said.  Dispute Over Assets  Janvey has been battling Dickson and Wide over the right to
marshal assets and pay creditors. The Grant Thornton accountants
claimed Antiguan law requires any liquidation to be based in
Antigua, which doesn’t recognize Janvey’s authority. “The joint
liquidators’ repeated interference with the Receivership has
been the norm,” Godbey said.  The judge granted Dickson and Wide “nonmain” recognition
and conditioned their ability to collect evidence and testimony
in the U.S. on their cooperation with the  Justice Department ,
Janvey and the SEC outside the country.  The Antiguan liquidators have been fighting U.S. efforts to
repatriate more than $300 million from Stanford’s foreign
accounts, which Janvey has said could be the single largest
recovery for investors.  Order to Consult  The court directed the liquidators to consult with Janvey
and a court-appointed investor advocate, John Little, and to use
their “best efforts” to adopt a common claims process.  “The receiver welcomes the ruling and the conditions
imposed upon the Antiguan liquidators that will prevent
interference with the receiver’s work,” Janvey’s lead lawyer,
Kevin Sadler, said in an e-mailed statement. “It remains to be
seen, however, whether the Antiguan liquidators choose to accept
this ruling or persist in conduct that the court accurately
described as “extremely litigious and calculating.”  Dickson and Wide, in an e-mailed statement, said that while
they’re not now seeking any relief or disclosure in the U.S.,
they will probably appeal.  “We are disappointed that the American court has ruled in
a manner inconsistent with the recognition already granted to
the joint liquidators in the United Kingdom and  Switzerland ,”
Wide and Dickson said. “At first blush” it does not appear to
affect their efforts outside the U.S., they said.  The case is In re Stanford International Bank Ltd. Debtor
in a Foreign Proceeding, 09-cv-721, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Dallas), and the SEC case is
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford International
Bank Ltd., 09-cv-00298, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 