-- U.S. Consumer Financial Agency Hits Lawyer in First Suit
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-31T22:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/u-s-consumer-financial-agency-hits-lawyer-in-first-suit.html
The year-old U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau brought its first lawsuit this month, accusing
a  California  lawyer of operating an illegal mortgage relief
scheme.  The lawsuit, filed in federal court in Los Angeles, alleges
that Chance Gordon used his  law firm  and affiliated companies to
falsely promise loan modifications in exchange for advance fees,
ranging from $2,500 to $4,000, according to a complaint unsealed
on July 23.  “Rather than helping homeowners modify their  mortgage
loans  or avoid foreclosure, defendants dupe distressed
homeowners into paying thousands of dollars based on false
promises and misrepresentations,” Kent Markus, the bureau’s
enforcement director, said in the filing.  The lawsuit alleges that since early 2010 Gordon, who is
based in Los Angeles, would entice potential clients with
advertisements and phone calls that claimed an affiliation with
government entities or programs.  After securing payments, he did “little or nothing” to
assist his clients and advised them to avoid interaction with
their lenders and to stop making mortgage payments, causing them
to enter foreclosure or lose their property, according to the
complaint.  U.S. District Judge Ronald Lew granted the agency’s request
that the assets of Gordon and other defendants remain
temporarily frozen.  On July 30, Gordon asked the judge to allow him access to
$25,000 to pay a lawyer to defend him in the case and another
$10,000 a month for living expenses. Lew hasn’t ruled on that
request.  Gary Kurtz, a lawyer for Gordon, didn’t immediately respond
to a telephone message seeking comment on the allegations.  The case is Consumer Financial Protection Bureau v. Gordon,
12-cv-06147, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 