-- U.S. Stocks Decline as Investors Await Fed Decision
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-07-31T20:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-as-federal-reserve-meets.html
U.S. stocks fell, trimming a second
monthly advance in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as investors
awaited the Federal Reserve’s monetary-policy decision tomorrow.  Coach Inc. (COH) , the largest U.S. luxury handbag maker, tumbled
19 percent after reporting revenue that trailed analysts’
estimates.  Humana Inc. (HUM)  slumped 13 percent as the provider of
Medicare benefits cut its 2012 profit forecast.  Apple (AAPL)  Inc. rose
2.6 percent as Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said it is considering
a stock split that could prompt the world’s most valuable
company to be added to the Dow Jones Industrial Average.  About five stocks  fell  for every three that rose on U.S.
exchanges at 4 p.m.  New York  time. The  S&P 500 (SPX)  slid 0.4 percent
to 1,379.32. The benchmark measure rose 1.3 percent in July. The
Dow average slid 64.33 points, or 0.5 percent, to 13,008.68
today. Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was 6.7
billion shares, or about in line with the three-month average.  “People are taking some chips off the table as they don’t
expect the Fed to come up with any positive surprise,” said
 Michael Holland , chairman of New York-based Holland & Co. His
firm oversees more than $4 billion. “In addition, you have a
mixed bag of earnings and news out of Europe is not helping.”  Equities fell on bets the Fed may forgo announcing a third
round of large-scale asset purchases this week, and is more
likely to wait until September to unveil plans to buy $600
billion in housing and government debt. Policy makers meeting
today and tomorrow may wait for more employment data before
deciding whether action is needed to boost an economy that’s
slowed for two straight quarters.  Economic Data  Consumer spending in the U.S. stagnated in June as labor-
market weakness prompted Americans to use the biggest gain in
incomes in three months to build savings. Yet Americans may be
growing less pessimistic about job prospects later in the year,
with another report today showing consumer confidence rose
unexpectedly for the first time in five months.  U.S. equities followed a slump in European shares after
companies including BP Plc and  UBS AG (UBSN)  posted earnings that
missed forecasts. In the U.S., 60 percent of the companies which
reported second-quarter results  missed  sales estimates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About 73 percent beat
profit estimates, the data showed.  Companies which rely on consumer discretionary spending
lost 1.2 percent for the biggest decline among 10 S&P 500
groups. Coach tumbled 19 percent, the most since 2001, to
$49.33. Sales at North American stores open at least a year
advanced 1.7 percent, compared with a gain of 10 percent a year
earlier.  Jennifer Davis , an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets,
projected an increase of 5 percent.  Humana, ADM  Humana dropped 13 percent, the biggest decline since 2009,
to $61.60. The company generated  three-quarters  of sales last
year from Medicare, the U.S.-backed program for the elderly and
disabled, and Chief Executive Officer Michael B. McCallister
said that new members were proving more expensive.  Archer Daniels Midland Co. slumped 5.1 percent to $26.09.
The largest corn processor reported fiscal fourth-quarter  profit 
that missed  analysts’  estimates as its ethanol business swung to
a loss and the U.S. drought increases corn costs.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  dropped 6.2 percent to $21.71, the lowest
price on record. The shares are trading 43 percent below the
company’s initial public offering price of $38. Facebook, the
largest social-networking service, last week reported second-
quarter results that showed slowing growth.  U.S. shares of UBS slumped 4.2 percent to $10.60.
Switzerland’s biggest bank said second-quarter profit fell 58
percent, missing analysts’ estimates, as the investment bank
posted a loss tied to Facebook’s initial public offering.  New Eyeglasses  RealD Inc. (RLD)  retreated 23 percent to $9.70. The supplier of
3-D projection systems to theaters reported quarterly profit
that missed analysts’ estimates because of costs to supply
theaters with new eyeglasses.  Gains in  technology  companies, the biggest group in the S&P
500, limited the benchmark measure’s decline. Apple rallied 2.6
percent, the most since May 21, to $610.76. The company’s
decision in March to pay its first  dividend  in 17 years makes it
more likely the stock could be added to the index after a split,
said  Toni Sacconaghi , an analyst at Bernstein who rates the
shares outperform, in a report today.  “We see the timing as ripe,” Sacconaghi said. “Apple’s
initiation of a dividend brings the company in line with all
other Dow components. We note that Apple is currently the only
company above $215 billion in  market cap  that pays a dividend
and is not included in the Dow.”  Top Selling  The Cupertino, California-based company is preparing to
introduce the next version of the iPhone on Sept. 12 in what
will be a design overhaul of its top-selling product, according
to two people with knowledge of the company’s plans.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  climbed 1.4 percent, the most in the Dow, to
$24.04. The world’s largest drugmaker said it will file in mid-
August to sell as much as 20 percent of its animal-health unit
in an initial public offering. The company also reported profit
that beat analyst estimates as a result of cost cutting.  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT)  rose 10 percent to $11.45. The
largest U.S. tiremaker reported a second-quarter profit that
beat analysts’  estimates  and lowered its full-year forecast for
tire sales for the second time this year.  Cummins Inc. (CMI)  jumped 6 percent to $95.90. The maker of truck
engines reported second-quarter earnings excluding some items of
$2.45 a share, beating the average analyst estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of $2.28 a share.  U.S. Steel Corp. rallied 9.1 percent to $20.65. The
country’s largest producer of the metal reported earnings that
beat  estimates  after demand rose for tubular products.  ‘Unlock Value’  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  jumped 5.4 percent to $27.50. The
largest U.S. refiner by processing capacity said second-quarter
profit rose as access to cheaper crude produced in the U.S. led
to a rally in the margin between oil costs and fuel prices.
Valero plans to separate its retail business to “unlock value”
for its shareholders.  Dun & Bradstreet Corp. (DNB)  soared 13 percent, the most in the
 S&P 500 , to $80.19. The operator of a database that provides
credit and business data to firms is weighing a sale, said a
person familiar with the matter.  AmerisourceBergen Corp. (ABC)  climbed 3 percent to $39.70. The
third-biggest U.S. drug distributor won an $18.5 billion
contract to supply Express Scripts Holding Co.  Investors should buy stocks before the Fed’s announcement
tomorrow, if history is of any guide, according to Bespoke
Investment Group LLC.  Near Zero  The S&P 500 has advanced in 20 out of the past 29 decision
days since the Fed pledged to keep  interest rates  near zero in
December 2008, a study from Harrison, New York-based Bespoke
shows. While Fed days made up 3 percent of the trading days
during the period, they accounted for about 38 percent of the
equity gauge’s gain, the data show.  “‘Don’t fight the Fed’ is one of the most well-known
market axioms around, and these performance numbers couldn’t do
a better job of highlighting why,”  Justin Walters , Bespoke’s
co-founder, wrote in a note today.  The S&P 500 has rallied 9.7 percent this year amid
speculation that worse-than-expected  economic data  will prompt
the Fed to take more actions to spur growth.  The Fed has carried out two rounds of so-called
quantitative easing since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed in 2008, buying $2.3 trillion in bonds to boost the
economy. The S&P 500 jumped 59 percent during the 913 trading
days from December 2008 through yesterday, with return on the
Fed days totaling 22 percent, data from Bespoke and Bloomberg
show. The average gain on the past 29 Fed days was 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  