-- U.S. Housing Recovery Tested as Economy Tempers Optimism
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n ,   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   N o a h   R a y m a n
-- 2012-07-31T15:50:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/u-s-housing-recovery-tested-as-economy-tempers-optimism.html
Rob Gray moved his family of four
from Massachusetts to Texas, where he bought a new five-bedroom,
five-bath, two-fireplace home built by  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)   After completing the deal on July 26 for the $572,000
brick-and-stone house in Allen, about 30 miles (48 kilometers)
north of Dallas, Gray and his wife Paula plan to spend about
$30,000 on new furniture, appliances, window treatments and an
outdoor grill.  “We’re not afraid to roll the dice, to take a leap of
faith on the  U.S. economy ,” Gray, 47, an insurance-company
recruiter, said in a telephone interview. “Things are on the
rebound, and we need to get off the sidelines.”  As the residential property market climbs back from the
worst collapse since the Great Depression, homebuilders need
more customers like the Grays for the industry to enter a
sustainable recovery and help drive U.S. economic growth. While
orders for  new homes  are rising at the fastest rate in two years
and housing may be a net contributor to the economy’s expansion
for the first time since 2005, slowing job growth, tight
inventories and a backlog of foreclosures threaten to put the
brakes on a comeback.  “The gun is cocked with insane affordability,”  Stan Humphries , chief economist at property-data provider  Zillow
Inc. (Z) , said by telephone from Seattle. “The conundrum is why
more people aren’t coming off the fence. Two things are keeping
them on the sidelines: economic uncertainty, and the fear of
falling home prices. And I think both of those have started to
be reduced.”  Breaking Ground  Recent data has been bullish. Builders  broke ground  on new
single-family houses at an annual pace of 539,000 last month, up
4.7 percent from May and the fastest rate since April 2010, the
Commerce Department said on July 18. Confidence among U.S.
homebuilders increased in July by the most in close to a decade,
according to a  National Association of Home Builders / Wells Fargo (WFC) 
index.  In the three months ended June 30, orders swelled 32
percent at  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , the largest builder by revenue, and
25 percent at D.R. Horton Inc., the biggest by volume. Shares of
U.S. homebuilders are up 48 percent this year.  Home prices in 20 cities fell 0.7 percent in May from a
year earlier, the smallest 12-month decline since September
2010, the S&P/Case-Shiller  index  showed today. Prices increased
0.9 percent from April when adjusted for seasonal variations.  More Affordable  Housing affordability reached a record high in the first
quarter, according to the National Association of Realtors. The
average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped last week to
3.49 percent, the lowest since  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  began keeping records
in 1972.  The low rates helped convince Vyonnie Matthews, a retail-
store manager in Chicago, to stop renting and buy a home. She
opted for a new Pulte house in Yorkville, a suburb south of the
city, because the existing homes she looked at were small or in
poor condition. Matthews also wanted to escape the city’s high
crime rate, she said.  “We started looking to buy based on the  interest rates 
going down,” Matthews said. “People are out there, and they’re
saying, ‘Let’s do it.’”  The homeownership  rate , which reached a record 69.2 percent
in 2004, rose to 65.6 percent in the second quarter from a 15-
year low in the prior three months, the Census Bureau said last
week.  Slower Growth  Still, the recovery faces significant headwinds. Growth in
residential fixed investment, the term economists use for
spending on home construction and remodeling, slowed in the
second quarter as the U.S. economic expansion decelerated,
according to Commerce Department data released July 27.  Residential investment increased at a 9.7 percent annual
rate, down from 21.5 percent in the first quarter, and
contributed 0.22 percentage point to the gross domestic
product’s annualized gain of 1.5 percent. That was down from a
0.43 percentage point contribution to the first quarter’s 2
percent GDP growth.  Residential fixed investment contributed 0.4 percentage
points to the 3.1 percent U.S. GDP growth in 2005, the most
recent year it was a positive factor in economic growth.  Historical Boost  Since 1947, residential fixed investment has added an
average 0.1 percentage point to economic growth as the U.S. GDP
grew an average of 3.25 percent annually, according to Daniel
McCue, research manager at the Harvard Joint Center for Housing
Studies in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Following each of five
recessions from 1970 to 2001, residential fixed investment added
an average of 0.9 percentage point to an average growth rate of
4.6 percent, he said.  “The contribution of RFI was nine times normal, or 20
percent of GDP growth,” McCue said in a telephone interview.
This time around, “I don’t know if housing is set up to lead
the economy back because of the fallout from past excesses.”  Working through those past excesses is taking years.
Homeowners had $9.18 trillion in  mortgage debt  at the end of the
first quarter, down 19 percent from a September 2007 peak of
$11.3 trillion, according to the  Federal Reserve .  Home prices have fallen further than the debt. They’re 33
percent below their July 2006 peak, according to the S&P/Case-
Shiller  index . That’s left owners of 11.4 million homes
 underwater , or owing more than their properties are worth, as of
March 31, according to CoreLogic Inc., a Santa Ana, California-
based data company.  Low Rates  Some buyers unburdened by debt are jumping into the housing
market. Jenn Zepernick, a property manager in Orlando, Florida,
and her husband waited until they had paid off their student
debt, felt secure in their jobs and could take advantage of low
interest rates before they decided to leave their rental and buy
a home.  The Zepernicks are paying about $285,000 for a newly built
four-bedroom Pulte house in Windermere, near Orlando, that will
have space for their three children as well as high ceilings --a
priority for her husband Keil, a stunt actor who is 6 feet, 11
inches (2.1 meters) tall.  “It’s always great to have a new home at a great mortgage
rate -- you can’t beat that,” she said. “With the market doing
so well, we were like, ‘This was a no-brainer.’”  Petered Out  Home sales picked up for a few months at a time in 2009, in
2010 and last year, spurred by falling unemployment and
government incentives such as tax credits. Then the revivals
petered out as events including the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil
spill and the March 2011 Japanese earthquake undermined
enthusiasm.  This year may bring another repeat, following a weakening
of U.S.  consumer sentiment  and job growth in the second quarter.
The  unemployment rate  held at 8.2 percent last month and hasn’t
been below 8 percent since January 2009.  Consumer spending cooled last month even as incomes
increased 0.5 percent, the biggest gain in three months, the
Commerce Department reported today.  Consumer confidence 
unexpectedly rose in June for the first time in five months, the
New York-based Conference Board said.  “Housing demand appears to have hit a soft spot,
coinciding with the slowdown in the wider economy,”  Paul Diggle , a housing analyst with London-based Capital Economics
Ltd., wrote in a July 25 research note. “Nevertheless, the
market for new homes is still among the tightest it has been in
the previous six years and, on past form, is consistent with
rising housing starts.”  Tight Inventory  Along with weak demand, a lack of supply may be holding
back sales. There were 144,000 new homes available for sale in
June, a 4.9-month supply, down from a peak of 12.2 months in
January 2009. The 2.39 million existing homes listed for sale in
June -- a 6.6-month supply -- is limiting sales of existing
properties and driving some buyers to purchase from
homebuilders, according to  Lawrence Yun , chief economist for the
National Association of Realtors.  “Buyer interest remains strong but fewer home listings
mean fewer contract-signing opportunities,” Yun said in a July
26 statement announcing a drop in pending sales. “Housing
starts will likely need to double over the next two years to
satisfy the pent-up demand for both rentals and ownership.”  While it may be tempering sales, tight inventory is pushing
prices higher in Silicon Valley south of San Francisco, Phoenix
and other markets where listings are attracting multiple bids.
Rising values provide a boost to the economy by lessening
negative equity, increasing mobility among homeowners so they
can chase jobs, and boosting consumers’ confidence in their
finances, making them feel like they can spend more.  Foreclosure Backlog  One threat to a price recovery is a  foreclosure  backlog. A
$25 billion settlement in February with top banks over
allegations that they seized homes without proper documentation
may open the way to more listings of lower-cost distressed
properties.  A probe by state attorneys general, which began in 2010,
led to a slowdown in actions against delinquent homeowners.
Foreclosure filings rose in almost 60 percent of large U.S.
cities in the first half of 2012, indicating that more
distressed homes may enter the market later this year, according
to  Irvine , California-based researcher RealtyTrac Inc.  Lenders seized 60,000 homes from delinquent borrowers in
June, compared with 80,000 a year earlier, bringing to about 3.7
million the number of properties lost to foreclosure since
September 2008, when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed the
biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history, CoreLogic reported today.  While more buyers are purchasing new homes again, the
market needs job growth to accelerate, said  Richard Dugas , chief
executive officer of PulteGroup, based in Bloomfield Hills,
Michigan.  Stronger Economy  “We believe low level of inventory is driving the majority
of the good results you are seeing,” he said on a July 26 call
with analysts. “Can housing double or triple from these levels
just on the backs of low inventory? My guess is no. It probably
needs a stronger economy to come along.”  Demand for new homes has been limited because household
formation dropped as unemployment rose and incomes fell. The
pace of household formation slowed to 810,000 in the second
quarter from 1.01 million in the previous three months,
according to the Commerce Department.  “Normalized household growth is about 1.2 million, which
translates to approximately 1.6 million housing starts,”
Stephen East, a homebuilding analyst with International Strategy
& Investment Group LLC, a New York-based investment-research
firm, wrote in a July 27 research note. “While still at
depressed levels, we are well above the trough of 100,000,” the
formation pace in the fourth quarter of 2008.  Household Formation  Starts for single- and multifamily residences will have to
increase rapidly to keep up with household formation once the
economy picks up, according to Ben Herzon, senior economist for
Macroeconomic Advisers LLC in St. Louis.  “Pretty soon demographics will take over and people will
form households at a normal rate,” Herzon said. “There is
considerable pent-up demand.”  The National Association of Home Builders estimates single-
family home construction will reach 519,000 units this year, up
19 percent from 2011. The number will rise to 668,000 next year,
according to a July 12 presentation by  David Crowe , chief
economist at the Washington-based association.  Each new single-family home generates three jobs lasting a
year, about half of them in construction-related employment,
Crowe said in a telephone interview. That means an increase of
about 400,000 new single-family homes will reduce the
unemployment rate by 1 percentage point, he said.  25% Chance  Crowe’s home-construction projections have been overly
optimistic in the past. He forecast that new-home sales would
rise 18 percent in 2011, when they ended up falling 5.3 percent
to 306,000, the fewest on record.  The possibility of a housing retreat is about 25 percent
because of such economic dangers as Europe’s financial crisis, a
U.S. “fiscal cliff” threatened by mandatory spending cuts and
tax increases at the end of the year, and uncertainty about the
future of mortgage companies Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , Crowe
said.  “We don’t even know who’s going to be president,” he
said.  Eric Lipar sees the strengths and weaknesses of the new-
home market as chief executive officer of  LGI Homes Inc. , a
closely held builder based in Woodlands, Texas, outside Houston.
His company sold a record 246 homes in the second quarter and
expects to sell 90 units in July, a monthly record. The biggest
challenge to increasing sales, especially to first-time buyers,
is getting financing for LGI’s homes, which cost an average of
$140,000, Lipar said.  Credit Difficulty  “Only 15 percent of the customers who come in our doors to
buy have the ability to do it that day,” said Lipar, who sells
homes at 12 communities in Texas and Arizona and is shopping for
land in Florida. “They have to change their situation --improve
their credit, make more money or get someone to co-sign with
them.”  Homebuyers need to be careful not to take on unsustainable
debt, which helped cause the housing market to crater in 2007
and 2008, said Gray, who bought his Toll Brothers house with a
20 percent down payment.  “We’ve always enjoyed our money,” said Gray, director of
recruiting for Liberty National Life Insurance Co. “But we’re
spending responsibly, not going crazy into debt.”  Airport Close  Gray, who travels every week for work, chose a house that’s
about 45 minutes from Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport.
He made the move to Dallas from Boston because of the weather
and to be closer to the headquarters of his company, a unit of
 Torchmark Corp. (TMK) , in McKinney.  Texas is a land of opportunity for his kids, he said. His
son Jackson, 16, will attend John Paul II High School, a
Catholic school in Plano where he plans to be linebacker on the
football team. His daughter, Michaela, 13, hopes to become a
cheerleader at Allen High School, which is opening a new $60
million football stadium on Aug. 31, Gray said.  “She’s going to be in one of the premier programs in the
country,” he said. “We don’t want the U.S. economy to dictate
how we live our life. We want to lead from the front.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Rayman in New York at 
 nrayman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  