-- U.S. Steel Beats Estimates on More Profitable Alloy Sales
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-07-31T20:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/u-s-steel-earnings-beat-estimates-as-tubular-demand-increases.html
U.S. Steel Corp. (X) , the country’s
largest producer by volume, reported second-quarter earnings
that beat analysts’ estimates as it sold more profitable
varieties of the alloy.  Excluding the cost of paying off some debt early, per-share
profit was 69 cents, 20 cents more than the average of 19
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Net income  fell 55 percent to
$101 million, or 62 cents a share, from $222 million, or $1.33,
a year earlier, Pittsburgh-based U.S. Steel said in a statement
today. Sales declined 2 percent to $5.02 billion from $5.12
billion.  Facing declining demand, U.S. Steel is seeking to sell more
profitable products, such as metal treated to be stronger and
lighter for use in pipes and cars. Demand from customers in the
oil and natural-gas drilling industry helped make up for lower
prices in its flat-rolled division, which includes steel used in
appliances and manufacturing.  The company was helped by a “combination of better-than-
expected contract prices plus a higher end mix in their U.S.
business,” David Gagliano, a New York-based analyst for
Barclays Plc, said in a phone interview today.  U.S. Steel rose 9.1 percent to $20.65 at the close in  New
York , the biggest gain in six weeks. The shares have dropped 22
percent this year.  Operating profit at U.S. Steel’s tubular segment more than
tripled to $103 million. Shipments of the steel tubes used in
drilling climbed 16 percent to 493,000 tons as the segment’s
average realized price rose 9 percent to $1,706 a ton.  ‘Solid Results’  “Our flat-rolled and tubular segments had solid results
considering the very fragile nature of the U.S. economic
recovery,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Surma said
in the statement.  The average number of active oil and natural-gas rigs in
the U.S. rose 7.9 percent to 1,970 in the quarter, compared with
1,826 a year earlier, according to  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)   The company sees third-quarter results below second-quarter
earnings “reflecting the continued weakness in the North
American, European and emerging market economies,” Surma said.  U.S. Steel also expects to reach an agreement for a new
contract with the  United Steelworkers  without a work stoppage.
The current contract expires Sept. 1.  European Division  The company’s European division had a profit of $34
million, compared with an $18 million loss a year earlier.  Selling the division’s unprofitable steel mill in  Serbia 
contributed to the turnaround, said Gagliano, who rates U.S.
Steel at equal-weight, the equivalent of a hold. The segment
also benefited from sales of premium steel to automakers, who
are insulated from the effects of the  European debt crisis , he
said.  The division is “a bit more isolated from the broader
European challenges,” Gagliano said. “It’s not immune, results
aren’t going to be stellar, but it’s resilient.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  