-- U.S. Women Gymnastics Team Ends 16-Year Wait for Olympic Gold
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S p i l l a n e   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-07-31T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/u-s-women-gymnasts-end-16-year-wait-for-olympic-team-gold-medal.html
The U.S. won its first Olympic
women’s gymnastics team gold medal in 16 years at the  London 
Games, never trailing after McKayla Maroney vaulted it into a
big lead.  The U.S. team scored  183.596 points , winning three of the
four parts of yesterday’s final at the North Greenwich Arena to
finish ahead of silver-medal winner Russia and  Romania . China
was fourth and host nation Britain finished sixth with 170.495.  “This is my ultimate goal, to be part of this team and win
that gold medal,” said 17-year-old Jordyn Wieber, who told
reporters she had a leg injury in the final. “Once I get on the
competition floor, the pain just goes away.”  It was the first gold for the Americans in the team event
since the 1996 Atlanta Games, and the eighth in Olympic history.
The U.S. team won silver in Beijing in 2008 and  Athens  in 2004.
The Americans were third in the uneven bars yesterday, taking
the vault, the beam and the floor competitions.  The team, which is captained by 18-year-old Aly Raisman, is
composed of Wieber; Maroney, 16; Gabby Douglas, 16; and Kyla
Ross, 15.  Raisman and Douglas may add to the U.S. medal tally when
they compete in tomorrow’s individual all-around final.  The U.S., which was paired with Russia throughout the
final, took an early lead with no one surpassing Maroney’s score
of 16.233 on the vault. The Californian left the apparatus by
skipping over to her teammates after her routine gave the U.S. a
lead that it never relinquished.  Floor Exercises  Russia  tracked the  gold medal winners  until the floor
exercise, the last event. The U.S. women watched Anastasia
Grishina score 12.466 before Kseniia Afanaseva landed on her
knees in her final maneuver, which placed Russia sixth in the
discipline. Afanaseva, 20, had to be consoled as she left the
floor.  “I’m crying first from happiness, then from
disappointment,” Russia’s Aliya Mustafina said in a press
conference. “It was difficult to beat the Americans with the
scores we had. I feel that the USA have just proved that they
are better than us as a team in general.”  Raisman performed the final floor exercise of the gold
medal-winning performance. As she left the floor after scoring a
competition-high 15.300, she was mobbed by her teammates and the
crowd shouted “U-S-A.”  ‘Hard Work’  “This is the result of very hard work through many
years,” U.S. coach Martha Karolyi said. “It’s a fantastic
achievement but at the same time we don’t want to get our noses
up.”  Russians in the audience chanted as their compatriots were
given their silver medals. Wieber was the first on the podium
for the U.S. and the quintet bit their medals as they posed for
the crowd.  “They’re so hungry for it, that’s the difference,” said
British gymnast Rebecca Tunney. “We’ve been lucky enough to
train with them for a week -- it was so inspiring.”  The British gymnasts were greeted with cheers as they
completed dismounts. Those cries were enough to distract the
Chinese athletes during their beam routine, according to 20-
year-old Sui Lu.  “On the beam we felt a little nervous,” Sui said. “I
think the audience was very enthusiastic and we were affected by
this. We really love the cheering but we are sometimes
distracted by the noise. This is our own fault.”  Fourth Place  China , which finished first in Beijing four years ago, came
in fourth and was followed by  Canada . Italy and  Japan  were
seventh and eighth.  Wieber, the reigning women’s all-around world champion, was
knocked out of the Olympic all-around event in qualifying.
Karolyi praised the gymnast’s performance in the team event.  “She has a very strong character, she’s a fighter,” the
coach said. “She wanted to prove herself.”  The U.S. women’s team won the bronze medal when London last
hosted the games in 1948.  The U.S. men finished fifth in the team event two days ago
after John Orozco failed to land his vault. The Bronx-born
gymnast broke down in tears after getting the day’s third-lowest
score on the apparatus.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Spillane at North Greenwich Arena at
   cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny at North Greenwich Arena at 
   tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  