-- Consumer Confidence in U.S. Unexpectedly Climbed in July
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d
-- 2012-07-31T15:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/u-s-consumer-confidence-index-unexpectedly-rose-correct-.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
unexpectedly rose for the first time in five months as Americans
became more upbeat about job prospects later this year.  The Conference Board’s  index  increased to 65.9 this month
from 62.7 in June, figures from the New York-based private
research group showed today. Economists projected a reading of
61.5, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. The report showed a gain in the share of consumers
anticipating better labor and economic conditions in six months.  A pickup in the housing market and decreases in fuel prices
may also be helping sustain consumer sentiment. At the same
time, faster job gains are needed to spur  consumer spending ,
which grew in the second quarter at the slowest pace in a year.  “The increase was partly in expectations for business
conditions and less pessimism on the future job market, but very
little change in the outlook for  household income  and that is
probably more important,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist at
Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida .  Stocks held losses after the report. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index fell 0.1 percent to 1,383.91 at 11:08 a.m. in  New
York .  Estimates for the Conference Board gauge ranged from 59 to
67 in the Bloomberg News survey of 71 economists. The measure
averaged 53.7 during the 18-month recession that ended in June
2009.  Personal Spending  The Commerce Department said today consumer purchases in
June cooled, indicating a weak handoff to the second half of the
year. Personal spending was unchanged after decreasing 0.1
percent. Incomes climbed 0.5 percent following a 0.3 percent
gain.  Another report showed housing prices are stabilizing. The
S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values decreased 0.7 percent
in May from a year earlier, data from the group showed in New
York.  Business activity unexpected expanded in July at a faster
pace as the economy weathered a slowdown in hiring and spending.
A barometer from the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago
Inc. increased to 53.7, the highest since April. Readings
greater than 50 signal growth.  Today’s confidence figures contrast other data on consumer
sentiment. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell in the week
ended July 22 to minus 38.5, the lowest level in two months. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final July index of
consumer sentiment was the weakest this year.  Earnings Outlook  “Despite this month’s improvement in confidence, the
overall index remains at historically low levels,”  Lynn Franco ,
director of economic indicators at the Conference Board, said in
a statement. “While consumers expressed greater optimism about
short-term business and employment prospects, they have grown
more pessimistic about their earnings.”  The Conference Board group’s measure of present conditions
decreased to 46.2 from 46.6 in June. The measure of expectations
for the next six months increased to 79.1 from 73.4 in June.  The percent of respondents expecting more jobs to become
available in the next six months rose to 17.6 from 14.8 the
previous month. The proportion of consumers who expect their
incomes to rise over the next six months decreased to 14.2
percent from 15.3 percent.  The share of consumers who said jobs are currently
plentiful fell to 7.8 percent from 8.3 percent. Those who said
jobs weren’t plentiful rose to 51.4 percent from 50.5 percent.  Labor Market  Faster employment growth would help lay the foundation for
a pickup in  consumer spending , which accounts for about 70
percent of the economy.  Payroll gains slowed to an average 75,000 in the April to
June period, down from 226,000 in the first quarter and the
weakest in almost two years, Labor Department figures show. The
jobless rate has exceeded 8 percent since February 2009, the
longest stretch in monthly records going back to 1948.  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced, rose at a 1.5 percent annual rate after a revised 2
percent gain in the prior quarter, Commerce Department data
showed last week in  Washington . Household purchases grew at the
slowest pace in a year.  Recent data signal consumers are reluctant to step up
purchases. Retail sales fell in June for a third consecutive
month, the longest period of declines since 2008. Same-store
sales rose less than analysts’ estimates at retailers including
Target Corp. and Macy’s Inc.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues on the
 Federal Open Market Committee , who have pledged to keep the
benchmark  interest rate  low until late 2014, meet today and
tomorrow to decide whether more is needed to stimulate the
world’s largest economy.  Central bankers will probably forego announcing a third
round of large-scale asset purchases this week, and is more
likely to wait until September to unveil plans to buy $600
billion in housing and government debt, according to median
estimates of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in Washington at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  