-- UBS Profit Falls 58% on Investment Banking, Facebook Loss
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-07-31T16:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/ubs-second-quarter-net-falls-58-on-investment-banking-loss.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
said second-quarter profit fell 58 percent, missing analysts’
estimates, as the investment bank posted a loss tied to Facebook
Inc.’s initial public offering.  Net income declined to 425 million Swiss francs ($434
million) from 1.02 billion francs a year earlier, the Zurich-
based bank said in a statement today. That fell short of the
1.09 billion-franc mean estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The  shares dropped  5.9 percent as UBS said  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis and doubts about the economic outlook may
further constrain revenue growth in the third quarter. Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti  is shrinking UBS’s investment
bank by more than half to focus on wealth management as rising
capital requirements and Europe’s debt woes drag on
profitability.  “The investment bank has been an underperformer for a
while,” said  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets who has a reduce rating on UBS. “The more
assets they cut at the unit, the lower are the chances of
earnings in the future.”  The investment bank, run by Carsten Kengeter and  Andrea Orcel , who joined this month, had a pretax loss of 130 million
francs in the second quarter, hurt by a 349 million-franc loss
related to the Facebook offering. UBS said it will cut risk-
weighted assets at the unit by more than previously planned.  ‘Challenging’ Environment  UBS fell 64 centimes to 10.29 francs in Zurich trading,
extending its  decline this year  to 8 percent. The 38-company
Bloomberg  Europe Banks and Financial Services Index  fell 0.8
percent this year.  UBS joins other banks whose results have suffered from weak
markets. Deutsche Bank AG, Europe’s biggest investment bank by
revenue, said today that second-quarter pretax earnings at its
securities unit slid 63 percent to 357 million euros ($439
million), missing analysts’ estimates, as trading shrank amid
Europe’s debt crisis.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley had combined
first-half revenue of $161 billion, down 4.5 percent from 2011
and the lowest since $135 billion four years ago.  Cost Cuts  UBS will further adjust costs for the group and its
investment bank to the environment, Ermotti said at a press
conference in Zurich. The bank already cut total annualized
expenses by 1.1 billion francs in the first half from a year ago
and reached its 2013 headcount reduction target at the
securities unit, Ermotti said.  “We are not resting there,” he said. “Costs are clearly
a must in terms of focus in this challenging environment.”  Chief Financial Officer Tom Naratil told journalists on a
conference call that after announcing 3,500 job cuts last year,
further steps to improve efficiency will probably be “silent as
opposed to ones that are announced with some fanfare.”  Earnings from  wealth management  outside the Americas fell
25 percent to 502 million francs as lower client activity hurt
the bank’s margins. Pretax profit at the wealth management
Americas unit jumped 43 percent to 200 million francs, the
highest ever. The wealth management businesses attracted 13.2
billion francs of net new money in the quarter, beating
analysts’ estimates.  Affluent Clients  “We are determined to extend our advantage as the best
capitalized bank in our peer group under current and future
regulatory requirements,” Ermotti, 52, said in a statement.
“Clients recognize this and continue to entrust us with their
assets.”  UBS’s capital position relative to Credit Suisse may be
helping it win more business from affluent clients, analysts at
Espirito Santo Investment Bank led by Andrew Lim said in a
report last month. They have a sell rating on Credit Suisse and
a buy on UBS shares.  UBS was the No. 2 ranked wealth manager by assets under
management after  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America
Corp.  in a survey published this month by Scorpio Partnership, a
London-based provider of research and industry analysis. The
bank climbed one place from last year. Credit Suisse was ranked
fifth.  Capital Plans  Credit Suisse said this month it plans to boost capital by
15.3 billion francs this year after the  Swiss National Bank 
urged a “marked increase.” The central bank, in its annual
financial stability report, also said UBS should continue with
its plan to improve  capital ratios  by cutting assets, retaining
earnings and limiting dividend payments.  UBS is cutting risk-weighted assets at the investment-
banking division to less than 135 billion francs from 300
billion francs by 2016, under Basel III rules. The bank reported
a common equity ratio of 8.8 percent under fully-applied Basel
III rules and said it expects this measure of financial strength
to be “comfortably above” 9 percent by the end of 2012. That
compares with the common equity ratio of 8.6 percent Credit
Suisse now plans to achieve by then.  UBS’s “excellent capital position and further shrinkage
are welcome,” JPMorgan analysts led by Kian Abouhossein said in
a note today. They have an overweight rating on the company.  UBS, which paid its first cash dividend to shareholders
since the subprime crisis this year, will be improving payouts
in line with progress on the capital build-up, Ermotti said. The
bank accrued a dividend in the first two quarters of 2012,
though the final decision will be made after results for the
full year are known, he said.  ‘Gross Mishandling’  The new targets for risk-weighted assets, which will take
UBS to less than 240 billion francs by the end of 2016, reflect
“discipline around capital,” Naratil told journalists. “We
feel quite comfortable that the group and the investment bank in
particular can run effectively and meet its targets.”  UBS is sacrificing some revenue opportunities at the
investment bank as it cuts assets and builds up capital, Ermotti
said. The unit also needs “a normal market environment” to
achieve its return on equity target of between 12 percent and 17
percent, he said.  The investment bank’s loss compared with a profit of 383
million francs a year ago, as revenue fell 32 percent to 1.72
billion francs.  Revenue at the equities unit was hurt by what UBS called a
“gross mishandling of  Facebook (FB) ’s market debut by Nasdaq.” The
bank said it had to enter clients’ orders for Facebook shares
multiple times because Nasdaq wasn’t confirming them “for
several hours.” That left UBS with a surplus of Facebook stock,
which subsequently dropped. The shares touched a record intraday
low of $21.70 today, down from the $38 IPO price. UBS said it
will take legal action against the exchange.  Orcel, Kengeter  Orcel, 49, a former top Bank of America dealmaker, joined
UBS this month to run the investment bank with 45-year-old
Kengeter, focusing on strengthening the company’s advisory
businesses. The division was shaken last year by the discovery
of a $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized trading, which resulted
in the departure of CEO  Oswald Gruebel , 68.  Ermotti told shareholders in May the bank improved controls
following the unauthorized trading loss to ensure the risk of a
similar event is “as small as possible.” The trial of Kweku Adoboli, who pleaded not guilty to charges of fraud and false
accounting, is set to start in September.  Libor Probes  UBS is also among firms including Citigroup Inc., Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Deutsche Bank being investigated
worldwide for practices in setting the London interbank offered
rate. London-based Barclays Plc was fined a record 290 million
pounds ($456 million) on June 27 for rigging Libor, leading to
the resignations of CEO  Robert Diamond , Chairman Marcus Agius
and Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier.  UBS said previously that it received conditional immunity
or leniency for cooperating with authorities including the U.S.
Justice Department’s and Swiss Competition Commission’s
antitrust investigations into Libor.  When asked whether the bank made provisions for possible
fines in Libor probes, Naratil said UBS consider itself
“appropriately provisioned for all matters” considered in the
quarter. Ermotti said the bank is not at the “center” of the
Libor probes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  