-- UBS Chief Says Bank Isn’t Central to Libor Investigations
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-07-31T13:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/ubs-chief-says-bank-isn-t-central-to-libor-investigations-1-.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Ermotti  said there is no reason to single out the Swiss
bank in the probes regulators worldwide are conducting into the
possible manipulation of London interbank offered rates.  “It is crystal clear that UBS is not in the center of
anything,” Ermotti said at a press conference in Zurich today
in response to a question on reports that the bank may have had
a key role in rigging Libor. “We’re waiting to see the results
of the investigation. But there is no evidence at this stage
that we have a particular position in that matter.”  UBS is among firms including Citigroup Inc., Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc and Deutsche Bank AG being investigated
worldwide for practices in setting Libor. London-based  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  was fined a record 290 million pounds ($456 million) on June
27 for rigging Libor, leading to the resignations of CEO  Robert Diamond , Chairman Marcus Agius and Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier.  The bank has been “upfront with authorities and regulators
about this issue,” Ermotti said. “That’s the reason why we
were able to apply for leniency in the areas where this was
necessary.”  UBS said previously that it received conditional immunity
or leniency for cooperating with the U.S. Justice Department and
Swiss Competition Commission’s antitrust investigations into
submissions of yen Libor and the euro-yen Tokyo interbank
offered rate, or Tibor. The Canadian Competition Bureau also
granted the bank conditional immunity in its investigation into
yen Libor, while the Swiss commission granted immunity on Swiss
franc Libor and certain transactions related to it.  Chief Financial Officer Tom Naratil told journalists today
that the bank was granted leniency or immunity in all reference
rates that it applied for. When asked whether the bank made
provisions for possible fines in Libor probes, Naratil said UBS
feels “appropriately provisioned for all matters” considered
in the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 