-- UBS Wealth Margins Slip as Customers Remain ``Paralyzed''
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-07-31T09:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/ubs-wealth-margins-slip-as-customers-remain-paralyzed-.html
Profit margins at  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s wealth
business narrowed in the second quarter as turbulent financial
markets curbed trading by its customers.  Gross margin, the revenue generated on client assets,
dropped to 89 basis points in the second quarter from 97 basis
points a year earlier at the firm’s unit for wealthy clients
outside the U.S., UBS said today. A basis point is one one-
hundredth of a percentage point.  “Today our clients are paralyzed by their fear of losing
their wealth in these volatile markets,” Chief Executive
Officer  Sergio Ermotti  told investors and reporters at a
 presentation  in Zurich. “As a result they continue to increase
their allocation to cash and other safe assets.”  The euro region’s sovereign-debt crisis and questions over
the health of the European banking system continue to weigh on
private clients’ confidence, damping market activity, UBS said.
The bank doesn’t expect an improvement in customer behavior
without progress in resolving those issues.  UBS is increasingly relying on wealth-management as it
shrinks an investment bank that reported a second-quarter pretax
loss today. Inflows across the wealth-management businesses
totaled 13.2 billion francs ($13.5 billion) for the quarter, the
highest since 2007. That boosted assets for wealthy clients
worldwide to 1.54 trillion francs at the end of June.  Risk Appetite  “We only need to see a modest increase in risk appetite”
to bring gross margins in wealth management ex-Americas back to
the bottom of the firm’s target range of 95 basis points to 105
basis points, Ermotti said. An increase in  interest rates  will
also benefit margins, the CEO said.  Wealth management outside the Americas reported 9.5 billion
francs of net new assets for an annualized growth rate at the
top of the firm’s 4.9 percent target range. Operating income
slipped because of a decline in non-recurring fees and trading
income, reflecting lower client activity levels.  Wealth Management Americas attracted 3.7 billion francs of
net new money and increased pretax profit to a record $211
million, the firm said. Gross margin at that unit climbed 1
basis point from a year earlier to 79 basis points.  UBS, which posted the biggest loss in Swiss corporate
history in 2008, saw net inflows resume in the third quarter of
2010 after customers pulled a net 233.7 billion francs in the 10
prior quarters.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the nation’s second-largest bank,
and  Julius Baer  Group Ltd., the Zurich-based wealth manager
established in 1890, have also reported weaker profitability.
The gross margin at Credit Suisse slipped to 115 basis points
from 119 basis points a year earlier and from 131 basis points
in 2009.  Julius Baer  Customers of  Julius Baer (BAER)  kept a “cautious investment
stance” leading to “relatively restrained transaction and
trading activity,” CEO  Boris Collardi  said last week. That
pushed the bank’s gross margin down to 98 basis points in the
first half of the year, from 104.9 basis points in the year-
earlier period.  UBS targets growth in particular from ultra-wealthy clients
with at least 50 billion francs in assets and from customers in
 emerging markets . Gross margin on invested assets was 53 basis
points for the ultra-wealthy segment and 72 basis points for
Asia-Pacific clients, UBS said in a  financial report .  European clients outside  Switzerland  withdrew 100 million
francs in the three months through June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  