-- UBS Facing Battle on Facebook After Nasdaq Set Aside Cash
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-07-31T22:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/ubs-facing-battle-on-facebook-after-nasdaq-set-aside-62-million.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ’s creation of a
$62 million pool to pay brokers that lost money in Facebook
Inc.’s public debut shows how far apart the exchange owner is
from  UBS AG (UBSN)  on who is to blame for losses in the botched deal.  Switzerland ’s biggest bank said yesterday that its second-
quarter  profit  fell 58 percent in part because of losses that
exceeded $350 million in the May 18 initial public offering. UBS
is among brokers including  Knight (KCG)  Capital Group Inc. that have
said they’ll seek compensation after a design flaw in  Nasdaq ’s
computers delayed orders and confirmations just as the shares
were about to start changing hands.  UBS promised legal action to get back more than five times
as much money as Nasdaq has set aside. In proposing to revamp
and enlarge the restitution fund on July 20, Nasdaq said it was
seeking a reasonable way to compensate firms for which its
“system difficulties caused objective, discernible harm,”
according to a regulatory filing.  “I don’t see them getting anywhere close to covering this
type of number,” Jillian Miller, an Atlanta-based exchange
analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said in a phone interview.
“Nasdaq was fairly clear on their conference call that they saw
their proposal as a relatively final document. It’ll probably go
forward as it is now, with Nasdaq keeping its proposal and UBS
trying to sue them.”  Definitive Statement  Nasdaq OMX’s plan to repay member firms represents the
company’s “definitive statement” on restitution and no more
reserves are planned, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld ,
55, said on a July 25 call with analysts. It must get approval
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission after a period of
public comment before it goes into effect.  Joseph Christinat, a Nasdaq OMX spokesman, declined to
comment on Zurich-based UBS’s statement.  Karina Byrne , a UBS
spokeswoman based in  New York , declined to comment beyond the
bank’s earnings release.  Delays and malfunctions on the Nasdaq Stock Market were the
first signs of trouble in the  Facebook IPO  that burned investors
and prompted lawsuits against the company, its exchange and the
underwriters. The  stock  has fallen more than 40 percent from the
price set by underwriters. It slipped 6.2 percent to $21.71
yesterday in New York.  Greifeld acknowledged in May that “poor design” in
software put the opening auction that set the price for the
first traded shares into a loop that delayed its completion.
Nasdaq expanded the plan to compensate member firms after its
June 6 proposal to pay out $40 million mostly through discounted
trading fees was criticized by brokerages and exchanges.  Botched IPO  Facebook (FB)  was sold by underwriters at $38 on May 17. The
pricing of the first public transaction, a trade known as the
IPO cross, took place at 11:30 a.m. New York time the next
morning, a half hour later than Nasdaq planned. About 30 minutes
after that, the  market owner  reported a delay confirming trades
from the opening auction with the brokers that placed orders.  The transaction reports, normally distributed immediately,
were sent at 1:50 p.m., leaving market makers, brokers and their
customers uncertain about whether orders submitted into Nasdaq’s
opening cross had been executed. Traders and individuals
couldn’t sell to limit losses until they received the reports
and knew how many shares they held.  The Swiss bank entered multiple customer orders after
“operational failures” at Nasdaq prohibited pre-market
requests to buy from being confirmed for “several hours,”
according to its statement. After Nasdaq filled all the entered
orders, UBS was left holding “far more” shares than clients
had asked for, the lender said.  Multiple Failures  “UBS’s loss resulted from Nasdaq’s multiple failures to
carry out its obligations, including both opening the Facebook
stock for trading and not halting trading in the stock during
the day,” the bank said. The bank’s shares lost 5.9 percent to
10.29 francs yesterday.  Assessing responsibility is harder because some firms
compounded problems by continuing to  place orders  for the stock,
 Larry Harris , a professor of finance and business economics at
the University of  Southern California  in  Los Angeles  and a
former SEC chief economist, said in a phone interview July 20.  “Nasdaq is responsible for creating circumstances in which
people made mistakes,” he said. “On the other hand, people
made mistakes because they behaved foolishly.”  Market-Making  Another securities firm expected to seek recompense is
Knight. The  Jersey City , New Jersey-based broker and market-
making firm reported second-quarter earnings July 18 that fell
79 percent, including a $35.4 million loss related to the
Facebook IPO. Citadel LLC, the Chicago-based investment firm run
by  Ken Griffin , lost as much as $35 million in its market-making
unit, according to a person with knowledge of the firm.  Nasdaq said getting money would be conditioned on the
broker agreeing to release Nasdaq of claims for losses related
to the Facebook IPO.  In working out the compensation pool, Nasdaq has cited
legal protections afforded to exchange operators to shield them
from liability when they act in their role as self-regulatory
organizations. The exchange has “substantial legal and factual
defenses to any litigation” that could result from the Facebook
IPO, Greifeld said on July 25.  The exchange’s liability will depend on whether it was
acting in the SRO role as it made decisions on the first day of
trading,  John Coffee , a Columbia University law professor, said
in a phone interview.  Nasdaq Decisions  “To the extent you can characterize the decision-making by
Nasdaq to have been regulatory in character, they are safe from
litigation,” Coffee said. “To the extent it looks like they
just blundered, fouled up and couldn’t execute, that is not a
regulatory decision and there could be professional liability,
though it probably will have to be asserted in arbitration.”  The cap on Nasdaq’s liability stemming from specific
technology errors and malfunctions it causes is $3 million,
according to the exchange’s rules. Nasdaq  raised  the limit last
year for certain types of errors from $500,000 after a
malfunction in April with its automated quotation system led to
losses by market makers. Greifeld said in a conference call in
July 2011 that the April mishap was the first such error in his
eight years leading the company and he didn’t expect another for
the next eight.  Curbs on liability were developed to keep the member-firm
owners of an exchange from having to pay another broker for
losses caused by technical breakdowns, according to George T. Simon, a partner at Foley & Lardner LLP and former associate
director in the SEC’s division of market regulation. Simon
helped restructure the national equities market after the 1975
Securities Acts Amendments, which overhauled rules for exchanges
and trading to spur competition and increase price transparency.  Self-Regulation  U.S. courts have upheld the immunity of exchanges and
associations of securities dealers for actions related to self-
regulatory responsibilities such as monitoring the compliance of
brokers with laws and running their markets. Cases brought
against the New York Stock Exchange and the National Association
of Securities Dealers Inc., which created Nasdaq in 1971,
preserved that protection in recent decades.  Brokers suing Nasdaq OMX are subject to contracts for
trading on the exchange that  limit  the venue’s liability, said
 Andrew Stoltmann , a securities lawyer in  Chicago  who has
represented investors in cases alleging  securities fraud .  Sergio P. Ermotti, UBS’s chief executive officer, was asked
in a conference call with analysts yesterday whether a bank as
large as UBS should have been smart enough to avoid the mishaps
with the Facebook IPO.  “I’ll leave it up to you to describe if this is
stupidity,” he said. “But I can only tell you that we feel
that this was a big mishandling by Nasdaq and not a fault of
UBS.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  