-- Humana Drops Most in Three Years After Cutting Forecast
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-07-31T20:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/humana-reduces-2012-forecast-as-medicare-costs-increase.html
Humana Inc. (HUM) , the second-biggest
provider of Medicare benefits, fell the most in more than three
years after cutting its 2012 profit forecast on higher-than-
anticipated costs.  Humana tumbled 13 percent to $61.60 at the close in New
York, its biggest single-day decline since March 2009. Earnings
this year may be $6.90 to $7.10 a share, the Louisville,
Kentucky-based health plan said yesterday in a statement. That
was below the $7.88 average of 10 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The company generated three-quarters of sales last year
from Medicare, the U.S.-backed program for the elderly and
disabled, and Chief Executive Officer Michael B. McCallister
said that new members were proving more expensive. Humana’s
results contrasted with those of Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the top Medicare insurer, which raised
its profit outlook two weeks ago, and  Aetna Inc. (AET) , which forecast
higher full-year earnings today.  “It was increasingly clear that Humana management had been
aggressive and mispriced their retail Medicare book of business
for 2012,” said  Ana Gupte , a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst
in New York, in a note to clients today.  Second-quarter net income fell 23 percent to $356 million,
or $2.16 a share, from a year earlier, Humana said. Profit also
was reduced by an 18-cent charge for a lawsuit settlement.  ‘Nobody’s Happy’  “Nobody’s happy with where we are at this moment, but this
company still does understand what is going on in Medicare,”
McCallister told analysts on a conference call yesterday. “I’d
rather be us than anybody else in this space.”  Indianapolis-based  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-biggest
insurer, reduced its profit forecast on July 25 after citing
medical costs.  Humana was hit by what McCallister called “a perfect
storm” of unanticipated spending. The company’s enrollment is
growing as the U.S. population ages and the new members are
using more medical care. The increase in doctor visits may have
come because people put off care before joining Medicare due to
the weak economy, said James Murray, Humana’s executive vice
president, on the call.  Among existing members, wellness visits and preventive care
were also up, likely because the 2010 U.S. health-care law
required insurers to promote those services, Murray said.  Humana has responded by adjusting its prices and benefits
for 2013. The company is confident it can return to its normal
profit margin of 5 percent by next year, McCallister said.  ‘Sound’ Strategy  “Our company’s strategy is sound,” he said. “We believe
the steps we are taking to address certain short-term
operational challenges will put us back on the path for
sustainable earnings growth.”  McCallister is scheduled to retire next year, to be
replaced by President Bruce Broussard, the insurer said last
year.  Aetna’s second-quarter net income fell 15 percent to $457.6
million, or $1.32 a share, the Hartford, Connecticut-based
insurer said in a statement. That beat analyst estimates and
Aetna also raised the upper end of its full-year profit
forecast, citing growing Medicare rolls along with improved
profit margins in some plans. Aetna rose less than 1 percent to
$37.41.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  