-- Muni-Debt Indexes, ICE’s Swaps, CFPB: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-07-31T12:10:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/muni-debt-indexes-ice-s-swaps-fed-final-risk-cfpb-compliance.html
U.S. financial regulators are
examining the indexes used in the $3.7 trillion municipal bond
market, after an investigation in the U.K. found that bankers
rigged a widely used benchmark for worldwide  interest rates .  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, or MSRB, which
crafts regulations for banks that deal state and local
government bonds, said yesterday it plans to study how
municipal-debt indexes are put together. The regulator said it
had no indication of manipulation, and that the review seeks to
educate investors about indexes used to gauge yields on
municipal bonds.  The MSRB is concerned about transparency, Alan Polsky, the
group’s chairman, said in a statement. The group will develop
educational materials to ensure fairness and transparency, he
said.  Officials in the U.S. and the U.K. are investigating how
bankers set the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, an
index used to determine interest rates on trillions of dollars
of debt and derivatives, including contracts purchased by states
and cities. At least a dozen banks are being investigated by
regulators.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined in connection with the probe.  The MSRB review is in response to concerns about the
integrity of financial market indexes such as Libor, according
to the statement.  The MSRB develops regulations and relies on the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission to bring action against those
who run afoul of its rules.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Fed Approves Final Risk Standards for Financial Market Utilities  The  Federal Reserve  approved a final rule setting risk
management standards for transaction processing systems
including central counterparties, payments systems and central
securities depositories.  The final rule, focused on firms that clear and settle
trades, is “substantively similar” to the proposed version
except for a provision that lets the Fed waive standards for
some financial market utilities, the central bank said yesterday
in a statement.  The regulations for financial market utilities, mandated
under the Dodd-Frank Act regulatory overhaul, set risk-
management standards for payment, clearing, and settlement
activities, except clearing firms designated by the Securities
and Exchange Commission or Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Libor Rigging Can Be Prosecuted Under U.K. Law, SFO Says  U.K. fraud prosecutors will investigate the manipulation of
Libor and other interest rates after deciding that existing
British criminal law covers the conduct involved.  U.K. law provides the basis to bring charges,  David Green ,
director of the  Serious Fraud Office , said yesterday in a
statement. The U.K. joins the U.S. in investigating how
derivatives traders and rate submitters colluded to rig the
London Interbank Offered Rate, or Libor.  The SFO probe began after Barclays Plc was fined a record
290 million pounds ($455 million) by U.K. and U.S. authorities,
and British politicians called for a criminal investigation. The
U.K. Financial Services Authority, which levied the fine along
with the U.S. agencies, didn’t have the power to file criminal
interest-rate manipulation charges. The agencies levying the
fines have been briefing the SFO on the progress of the case.  At least a dozen banks are being probed by regulators
worldwide. In the U.S., the  Justice Department  is preparing to
file charges this fall against traders from several banks in its
investigation.  Green said July 2 that the agency was considering whether
it was possible to bring a prosecution after U.K. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  and  Ed Miliband , leader of the
opposition Labour Party, called for a criminal probe.  SEC Office of Credit Ratings Website Operational, Agency Says  The  website  of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s Office of Credit Ratings provides access to public
reports, examination resources, public exhibits of nine
registered nationally recognized statistical rating
organizations, and related registration forms.  Creditors May Take Loss in Clearinghouse Failure, Regulators Say  Creditors of derivatives clearinghouses should take losses
in the event of a collapse, rather than exhausting the
institution’s default funds and plunge it into liquidation,
global regulators said.  It may be “preferable to haircut the creditor’s claims”
even while there are reserves to fulfill them so that the
payments infrastructure can continue to function, limiting the
chance of a systemic collapse, the Committee on Payment and
Settlement Systems and the International Organization of
Securities Commissions said in a report  published  today.  The proposals are part of a global overhaul of rules
governing derivatives contracts, encouraging banks and  hedge
funds  to use central counterparties and spread the risk of
default. Global regulators have sought tougher rules for over-
the-counter derivatives since the collapse in 2008 of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and the rescue of American International
Group Inc., two of the largest traders of credit-default swaps.  Compliance Action  Visa Europe Gets EU Antitrust Complaint on Credit-Card Fees  Visa Europe Ltd., operator of the European Union’s largest
payment-card network, was sent an antitrust complaint from EU
regulators over the fees it charges to process cross-border
credit-card payments.  Visa Europe’s so-called multilateral interchange fees
“harm competition between acquiring banks, inflate the cost of
payment card acceptance for merchants and ultimately increase
consumer prices,” the European Commission said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Regulators last year settled a probe into Visa Europe’s
fees for debit-card payments made outside a user’s home country.  Visa Europe issues about 41 percent of all payment cards in
Europe, the Brussels-based antitrust agency said.  “We are very disappointed that the commission has taken
such a confrontational approach and was not willing to find a
solution to support investment and innovation in European
payment,” Peter Ayliffe, chief executive officer of Visa
Europe, said in an e-mailed statement.  Visa Europe can defend itself in writing or seek an oral
hearing before EU regulators take a decision on fines that can
amount to 10 percent of yearly sales.  Intercontinental to Convert Swaps to Futures as New Rules Loom  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) , owner of Europe’s largest
energy market, said it will convert cleared swaps trades into
futures or options starting next year.  The change in structure will allow users of the company’s
energy, power and metal swaps to avoid having to report the
trades to swap data repositories, according to an  explanatory
page  on the Atlanta-based company’s website. The trades also
won’t count as positions that can cause the firm to be labeled a
major swap participant under the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act, a
designation that brings additional capital, clearing and trade
execution requirements.  Futures contracts that are economically equivalent to a
swap trade won’t face the same regulatory changes under Dodd-
Frank. The contracts affected are North American natural gas and
power swaps, natural gas liquids, environmental swaps, global
crude oil and refined products, freight and iron ore, the
company said.  CFPB Enforcement Plans Span ‘Full Breadth’ of Agency’s Authority  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is conducting
probes of companies that cover the entire range of the agency’s
authority, which includes banks and non-bank financial firms.  The consumer bureau is placing its emphasis on violations
that so the greatest harm consumers, it wrote in its semi-annual
report, published yesterday.  The inquiries involve actions initiated by the bureau as
well as those inherited from other regulators or resulting from
consumer complaints, according to the report. So far, it has
concluded one public enforcement action, resulting in a $210
million settlement with McLean, Virginia-based  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF)   Servier, Teva Get EU Complaints Over Pay-to-Delay Drug Deal  Les Laboratoires Servier and  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest maker of generic drugs, were sent
European Union antitrust complaints over agreements that delayed
cheaper versions of a Servier blood-pressure medicine.  Patent settlement deals that Servier had with the companies
“were aimed at delaying or preventing the market entry of cheap
generic versions of perindopril, in violation of EU antitrust
rules,” the Brussels-based regulator said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Servier “is convinced it didn’t commit any offense under
the competition rules,” the company, based in Neuilly-sur-
Seine, France, said in an e-mailed statement. It’s waiting to
receive the commission’s complaint and will respond, it said.  “We do not believe that Teva entered into any anti-
competitive behavior and we will cooperate fully with the
authorities with their enquiries,” the Petach Tikva, Israel-
based company said in an e-mailed statement.  Teva said it “will take some time to read and consider the
document” once the company receives it.  For more, click here.  Liberia Court Shuts LiberCell for Failure to Pay License Fees  Atlantic Wireless Inc.’s LiberCell, a Liberian mobile-phone
company owned Hits Telecom Holding Company of Kuwait, was
ordered shut by a tax court in the West African nation for
failing to pay license fees.  LiberCell owes about $1.5 million in fees to the government
and will be closed until it settles its debt, according to a
court document posted yesterday on the door of the company’s
office in Monrovia, the capital.  LiberCell Chief Financial Officer Abdallah Sbeiti said
funds are being transferred to make pay the fees.  Killer of Basileus Capital’s CEO Was Being Probed by Regulator  South Africa’s Financial Services Board was investigating
Herman Pretorius, who shot the chief executive officer of Cape
Town’s  Basileus Capital Ltd.  dead on July 26 before killing
himself.  The FSB, based in Pretoria, started the investigation this
month, after receiving allegations “he was conducting business
that required that it be regulated, and it was not,” Financial
Services Providers Deputy Registrar German Anderson said
yesterday in reply to e-mailed questions. The regulator had
received complaints Pretorius was soliciting clients for
investment purposes, he said.  Pretorius, 40, shot Julian Williams, 37, in the neck and
chest before shooting himself in the head, Police Captain
Frederick van Wyk said July 27 in an e-mailed statement.
Pretorius died on the way to hospital, he said. The two had been
partners in Abante Capital, a Cape Town hedge fund.  Rongsheng Faces Order Slump as SEC Probe May Deter Buyers  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , which
hasn’t announced any 2012 ship orders, may find winning deals
even harder as a company owned by its billionaire chairman faces
an insider-trading probe.  China’s biggest shipbuilder outside state control tumbled
16 percent yesterday in Hong Kong after the  U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission  said traders including Chairman Zhang Zhi
Rong’s Well Advantage Ltd. made more than $13 million of illegal
profits buying shares of Nexen Inc. ahead of a takeover
announcement by  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  The SEC also won a court order
freezing about $38 million of the traders’ assets.  Rongsheng, based in Shanghai, has tumbled 87 percent since
a November 2010 initial public offering because of concerns
about delivery delays and a global slump in ship orders caused
by a glut of vessels. The demand slump has pushed new-ship
prices to an eight-year low.  For more, click here.  Courts  Ex-Innospec CEO Pleads Guilty to Bribery Charge, SFO Says  Former  Innospec Ltd. (IOSP)  Chief Executive Officer Paul Jennings
pleaded guilty to conspiracy to bribe Iraqi government officials
in an attempt to win supply contracts, U.K. prosecutors said in
a statement.  Jennings, 55, who pleaded guilty in June to other charges
related to the bribery of Indonesian and Iraqi officials,
yesterday admitted his role in paying Iraqi government
representatives to falsify tests on a rival company’s product.
Innospec, a producer of fuel additives and specialty chemicals,
agreed to pay more than $40 million in fines after pleading
guilty in the U.K. and U.S. in 2010 to paying bribes overseas to
secure sales contracts.  Yesterday’s plea relates to allegations of payments to
Iraqi officials to ensure negative reviews of a product provided
by Ethyl Corp.  Jennings’s lawyer Angus McBride didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail requesting comment.  Innospec settled all charges in the U.K. and U.S. in 2010,
CEO Patrick Williams said in an e-mailed statement.  “We have built a strong culture within the company, in
which compliance is simply non-negotiable,” Williams said. The
company declined to comment on the Jennings case.  Siris, Guerrilla Capital Settle SEC Suit Tied to China Firm  Fund manager Peter Siris and his Guerrilla Capital
Management agreed to pay more than $1.1 million to settle
allegations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission of
“wide-ranging misconduct” in connection with a Chinese
reverse-merger firm.  The SEC yesterday announced the settlement with Siris, a
former writer for the New York Daily News and author of
“Guerrilla Investing: Winning Strategies for Beating the Wall
Street Professionals,” Guerrilla Capital and a related firm,
Hua Mei 21st Century LLC.  From 2007 to 2010, Siris and the firms sold unregistered
securities and engaged in unregistered broker-dealer activity
and illegal insider trading tied to China Yingxia International
Inc., the SEC said in a complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in Manhattan.  Siris, who manages two New York-based funds that invest in
Chinese companies listed in the U.S., had about $160 million
under management in 2010, according to the SEC’s complaint.  William Munno, a lawyer for Siris and his two firms, didn’t
immediately reply to a message seeking comment on the SEC
allegations and the settlement.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Siris,
12-cv-5810, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Ex-UBS Executives Go to Trial in Muni Bond Bid-Rigging Case  Peter Ghavami, former co-head of  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s municipal-
derivatives group, went on trial with two ex-colleagues in a
bond bid-rigging probe in which banks have paid more than $700
million to settle U.S. claims.  Ghavami, Gary Heinz and Michael Welty are charged in a six-
count indictment with “long-running conspiracies and schemes to
defraud” municipal-bond issuers and U.S. tax authorities by
fixing the prices on agreements for investing proceeds of
municipal-bond sales.  The trial stems from a nationwide probe of bid-rigging
involving banks and brokers.  Prosecutors expect to prove “the knowing and active
participation” of UBS,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America
Corp.  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  in the fraud alleged against the
three former UBS executives, according to a July 6 court filing.  The defendants deny any wrongdoing. They have argued that
the rigged bids charged by the government were “isolated in a
sea of hundreds of other transactions” and were innocent.  Christiaan Brakman, a UBS spokesman,  Russell Wilkerson , a
spokesman for GE Capital, and Bank of America spokesman  William
Halldin  declined to comment on the trial. JPMorgan Chase
spokesman  Joseph Evangelisti  didn’t return a call seeking
comment July 29.  Both sides estimate the trial may last about four weeks. 
The case is U.S. v. Ghavami, 10-cr-1217, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey
at   cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 