-- Usiminas Quarterly Loss Smaller Than Expected on Higher Sales
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-07-31T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/usiminas-quarterly-loss-smaller-than-expected-on-higher-sales.html
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA ,  Brazil ’s biggest maker of steel for the  auto industry ,
posted a second-quarter net loss that beat analysts’ estimates
as higher shipments pushed up sales.  A net loss of 101.7 million reais ($49.8 million) compared
with profit of 111.6 million reais a year ago, the company said
in a  statement  late yesterday. The average adjusted loss
estimate among seven analysts in a Bloomberg  survey  was 221.3
million reais.  Usiminas, as the  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-based company is
known, said net sales climbed 6.6 percent to 3.23 billion reais
in the period, while the cost of goods sold soared 18 percent.
Quarterly steel sales volume rose 19 percent to 1.89 million
metric tons from last year, Usiminas said.  Revenue rose mainly on “greater sales volume in the steel
business,” Usiminas said in the statement, which was released
after yesterday’s close of regular trading. “In the export
market there was an increase in reais, due to the dollar
appreciation, and stable prices on the domestic market.”  Usiminas, which had losses in three of the past six
quarters, is facing higher production costs at a time of
contraction in the Brazilian car industry, its biggest client.
Industrial production in  Latin America ’s biggest economy fell in
May for a third straight month, as a weaker currency and
government measures to boost sales of cars and other durable
goods failed to spur demand.  Vehicle Slump  Production of vehicles in the first half of 2012 fell 9.4
percent to 1.55 million from a year ago,  according  to the
Brazilian carmakers’ association known as Anfavea.  The earnings report from Usiminas, the second-largest
Brazilian steelmaker by output, follows a net loss of 70.8
million reais in the first quarter and is the worst quarterly
result since the first quarter of 2009, when it lost 111.9
million reais, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Usiminas jumped to the highest in more than a month
yesterday after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended buying the
stock. The company is Goldman Sachs’s new top pick within Latin
American steel stocks, analysts led by  Marcelo Aguiar  in  Sao
Paulo  said in a note to customers after raising their
recommendation from sell. Usiminas stands to profit from a
recovery in Brazil’s flat steel demand and an operational
“turnaround” after the entrance of the Techint Group in the
controlling shareholder group, they said.  “We expect Usiminas to outperform peers and the broader
market in the next 12 months as in our view operating turnaround
will begin to materialize throughout the second half of 2012,”
the analysts wrote. “Risk/reward has become compelling for
Usiminas shares.”  Preferred shares of Usiminas gained 5.7 percent to close at
7.01 reais in Sao Paulo yesterday, the highest since June 20.
The company’s voting shares climbed 6 percent, leading gains in
the Brazilian benchmark Bovespa index.  Gerdau SA, based in  Porto Alegre , Brazil, is Latin
America’s largest steelmaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  