-- VEB-Leasing, O’Key Group, Otkritie, Quadra: Russia Bond Alert
-- B y   A r t y o m   D a n i e l y a n   a n d   M a r k   S w e e t m a n
-- 2012-07-31T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/veb-leasing-o-key-group-otkritie-quadra-russia-bond-alert.html
OAO VEB-Leasing, O’Key Group SA and
Otkritie Financial Corp. are among Russian issuers that may sell
bonds in domestic and international debt markets.  Domestic Issuance  OAO VEB-LEASING: The unit of  Russia ’s state development
bank is accepting offers for 10 billion rubles ($311 million) of
10-year bonds until Aug. 1, according to a regulatory filing
today. (Added July 30)  O’KEY GROUP SA: The retailer plans to sell 8 billion rubles
of five-year bonds, according to regulatory filings. (Added July
30)  ZAO NATIONAL CAPITAL: The credit organization plans to sell
3 billion rubles of five-year bonds, the company said in a
regulatory filing. (Added July 30)  OTKRITIE FINANCIAL CORP.: The board approved the sale of a
total of 22 billion rubles ($686 million) of five-year bonds in
four installments, the Moscow-based company said in regulatory
filings today. (Added July 27)  OAO QUADRA: The power generator’s board of directors
approved plans to sell as much as 22 billion rubles of bonds,
according to regulatory filings. (Added July 27)  ZAO SVYAZNOY BANK: The lender plans to take bids this month
for 2 billion rubles of bonds until Aug. 3, according to a
regulatory filing. (Added July 26)  OOO UTAIR-FINANCE: The unit of the UTair group plans to
accept bids for 3 billion rubles of three-year bonds until Aug.
10, according to regulatory filings. (Added July 25)  OAO PROMSVYAZBANK: The lender plans to accept bids for 3
billion rubles of bonds until Aug. 7 rather than July 24 as
originally planned, according to a regulatory filing. (Added
July 20)  ZAO DELTACREDIT COMMERCIAL BANK: The mortgage lender plans
to start accepting bids for 3 billion to 5 billion rubles of
bonds from July 31 to Aug. 1, according to ZAO Raiffeisenbank,
which is organizing the placement. (Added July 23)  OOO SUEK-FINANCE: OOO SUEK-Finance is planning a sale of 30
billion rubles of 10-year bonds, according to a regulatory
filing from the unit of Siberian Coal Energy Co. (Added July 16)  OAO ROSNEFT: Russia’s largest oil company registered the
right to sell 90 billion rubles of domestic bonds with the
 Federal Financial Markets Service , according to an e-mailed
statement from the regulator. (Added July 11)  OAO BASHNEFT: The board approved a program to sell 30
billion rubles of bonds, the oil producer, which is part of
billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov’s AFK Sistema holding, said in
a statement. (Added July 5)  VIMPELCOM LTD. (VIP) : The local unit of the telecommunications
company may sell 50 billion rubles of 10-year bonds, according
to a company statement. (Added July 2)  UC RUSAL: Two units of the world’s largest aluminum
producer may sell 60 billion rubles of three-year notes and
bonds of longer maturities, according to company filings. (Added
June 18)  International Issuance  OAO TATFONDBANK: The lender hired UBS AG and OAO
Promsvyazbank to organize a sale of dollar bonds, according to a
banker familiar with the matter. (Added July 16)  OAO  ALFA BANK : Alfa Debt Market Ltd., which owns Alfa Bank,
may sell one-year dollar-denominated notes this week, a banker
with knowledge of the deal said. (Added July 16)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Artyom Danielyan in Moscow at 
 adanielyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  