-- Verizon Wireless to Pay $1.25 Million on Internet Complaints
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-07-31T20:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/verizon-wireless-to-pay-1-25-million-on-fcc-internet-complaints.html
Verizon Wireless agreed to pay $1.25
million to resolve an investigation of whether it interfered
with customers’ use of smartphones to relay Internet signals to
other devices, the U.S. Federal Communications Commission said.  Verizon, the largest U.S. wireless carrier, accepted
openness obligations when it bought a license to the airwaves,
 Julius Genachowski , the agency’s chairman, said in a news
release.  “This is an important victory for consumers,”  Joel Kelsey , an adviser to Free Press, a Washington-based policy
group that complained to the FCC about Verizon last year, said
in an interview today. “It sends a signal to wireless companies
that violations of open-Internet principles won’t be ignored in
Washington.”  Under the agreement, Verizon will tell online applications
websites that it no longer objects to programs that support the
practice, known as tethering, in which a smartphone is used to
feed data over a wired connection to another device.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  disabled Verizon customers’ access to third-
party tethering apps in the  Android Market , an online store that
offers a curated selection of smartphone programs that run on
Google’s free Android operating system, Free Press said in its
complaint.  Agency Rules  The conflict pitted Verizon’s increasing dependence on
revenue from customers’ Internet data consumption against
consumers’ desire to use a growing number of cheap applications
for sharing Web traffic among laptops, tablet computers and
other devices.  “Today’s action demonstrates that compliance with FCC
obligations is not optional,” Genachowski said in his
statement.  Verizon “did not block its customers from using third-
party tethering applications,” Richard Young, a Verizon
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement today. The consent
decree “allows us to focus on serving our customers,” Young
said.  Verizon last year told the FCC the company’s practices were
consistent with agency rules, and said Free Press’s complaint
should be dismissed.  Verizon’s subscribers may “lack the time and technical
proficiency” to find the apps outside the Android Market, Free
Press said in its complaint last year.  Verizon Wireless  is 55 percent-owned by New York-based
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and 45 percent-owned by  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , based in Newbury, England.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  