-- Vestas Surges on Deal With Creditors as Shipments Rise
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-07-31T14:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/vestas-surges-after-credit-deal-with-banks-as-shipments-double.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  surged the
most in 15 weeks after the turbine maker said it reached an
agreement with banks allowing it to draw on credit lines and
second quarter shipments more than doubled.  Shipments rose to 2,160 megawatts from 931 megawatts in the
first quarter, the world’s biggest wind turbine maker said in a
statement today to the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. Even so,
“disappointing results” in the nine months through March
affect the company’s ability to meet its financial convenants,
the company said.  “We do expect to meet our covenants in the near-term
future,” Chief Executive Officer  Ditlev Engel  said in a phone
interview. “We’re making progress in the right direction, but
obviously there are a lot of things to do.”  Vestas shares lost three quarters of their value in the
past year as losses increased following production delays at
factories and higher-than-expected development costs. That led
to newspaper reports in  Denmark  that Vestas is considering
selling new shares, and in the U.K. that its banks demanded a
financial restructuring plan.  Vestas shares rose as much as 21 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since April 16. They were up 9.6 percent to 28.44
Danish kroner at 4:05 p.m. in Copenhagen trading.  ‘Speculation’  “The reason we have pushed these preliminary numbers out
there is due to the speculation that has been around the
operational performance and the credit facilities,” Engel said
from the company’s headquarters in Aarhus, Denmark.  The executive declined to say whether Vestas is already in
breach of its  debt  covenants, saying only “you can assume
whatever you want -- I will tell you that we have deferred the
half year testing” of the covenants by the banks. He declined
to say how long the banks will defer the tests.  “The lenders have allowed drawings, which in the opinion
of Vestas are sufficient for the continued operation of
Vestas,” the company said in the statement. “The company
expects to test on normal terms in the future.”  Free  cash flow  declined 43 million euros to minus 338
million euros, according to the statement. Sales rose to 1.6
billion euros ($2 billion) from 1.1 billion euros, and the
 earnings  before income and taxes, or Ebit, margin before special
items rose to 2.5 percent from a loss of 18.5.  Today’s report reflected preliminary figures that are due
to be confirmed in Vestas’s final second-quarter earnings report
on Aug. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  