-- Vietnam’s Premier Orders List of Weak Banks to Be Public
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-01T04:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/vietnam-s-premier-orders-list-of-weak-banks-to-be-public.html
Vietnam ’s Prime MinisterNguyen Tan Dung ordered a public list of weak banks and details of lenders’
non-performing loans as the government seeks to tackle bad debt
that’s undermining the banking system and hurting businesses.  The central bank is drafting detailed measures to check bad
debt, Nguyen Thi Hong, head of monetary policy at the State Bank
of Vietnam, said at a briefing in Hanoi yesterday. The monetary
authority needs to “quickly restructure banks’ debt, reduce bad
debt by comprehensive measures and restructure weak banks” to
minimize any potential risks to the system, according to the
order posted on the government website yesterday.  Vietnam has struggled with stagnant lending and high
 inflation  that has crimped corporate growth and domestic demand.
The monetary authority has cut  interest rates  for five straight
months this year and ordered lenders to reduce rates on loans to
companies, while the government has pledged to speed up
restructuring of weak commercial lenders and non-performing
loans. Bad debts rose to 4.47 percent of total lending as of May
31 from 3.07 percent at end-2011, according to the central bank.  “The high bad-debt ratio at banks is a worrying problem,”
Nguyen Duc Hai, Ho Chi Minh City-based portfolio manager at
Manulife Asset Management, said by phone on July 30. “Rising
bad debt has become a large burden on banks and hindered them
from giving more loans.”  The benchmark VN Index on the Ho Chi Minh City Stock
Exchange slipped 0.4 percent as of 10:35 a.m. local time. Bank
stocks fell, with Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for  Foreign Trade 
of Vietnam, the nation’s largest-listed company and second-
biggest listed lender by market cap, sliding 1.4 percent, and
Saigon-Hanoi Commercial Joint-Stock Bank losing as much as 2.3
percent. The dong eased 0.1 percent to 20,880 against the dollar.  Significantly Understated  State Bank  of Vietnam Governor Nguyen Van Binh said in
April bad debt may be “much higher” than the reported figures
at some banks. Bad debt continues to be on an “uptrend,” Vu Duc
Dam, chairman of the government office, said yesterday.  Vietnam’s government said earlier this year it may
establish a company to buy bad debt from banks to strengthen
their balance sheets and enable them to step up lending. The aim
is to cut the bad-debt ratio at state-owned banks to below 3
percent by 2015, according to the March 2 statement.  Non-performing loans are “significantly understated” and
could be three or four times higher than the official estimates,
 Fitch Ratings  said in a March report.  Vietnam’s lending grew 0.93 percent at the end of July,
compared to the end of 2011, the government said in a release at
yesterday’s briefing. Consumer prices may fall in August
compared to July on lower food and fuel prices, Dam said.  Loan Demand  While easing inflation has given the central bank room to
cut interest rates, lenders have faced lower demand for loans as
the  economy  grew 4.66 percent in the three months to June from a
year earlier. Deputy Prime Minister Vu Van Ninh has said full-
year expansion may fall below the government’s 6 percent target.  More than 30,300 companies closed permanently or suspended
operations in the first seven months of the year, up 6.4 percent
from a year earlier, according to a statement on the government
website yesterday. A purchasing managers’ index for Vietnam fell
to 43.6 last month from 46.6 in June, HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics said today. A number above 50 indicates growth.  The central bank has said it aims to boost lending growth
to as much as 10 percent in the second half of the year from
0.76 percent in the first six months.  Dong deposit rates at commercial lenders could drop to
below 8 percent if inflation eases to less than 7 percent at
year-end, Binh said July 29, even as the monetary authority has
resisted calls from businesses to cut borrowing costs further.  Rates on some preferential loans may drop to below 10
percent in 2013 if deposit rates fall, Binh said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  