-- Visa Europe Gets EU Antitrust Complaint on Credit-Card Fees
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-31T10:44:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/visa-europe-gets-eu-antitrust-complaint-on-credit-card-fees.html
Visa Europe  Ltd., operator of the
European Union’s largest payment-card network, was sent an
antitrust complaint from EU regulators over the fees it charges
to process cross-border credit-card payments.  Visa  Europe ’s so-called multilateral interchange fees
“harm competition between acquiring banks, inflate the cost of
payment card acceptance for merchants and ultimately increase
consumer prices,” the European Commission said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Card fees paid by retailers are “too high” and there
isn’t any sign that they’ve decreased since 2006, the EU’s
competition commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in May. Regulators
last year settled an earlier probe into Visa Europe’s fees for
debit-card payments made outside a user’s home country.  Visa Europe issues about 41 percent of all payment cards in
Europe, the Brussels-based antitrust agency said. More than 5
million businesses in Europe accept its payments, which valued
1.8 trillion euros ($2.2 trillion) in 2010, the EU said.  “We are very disappointed that the commission has taken
such a confrontational approach and was not willing to find a
solution to support investment and innovation in European
payment,” Peter Ayliffe, chief executive officer of Visa
Europe, said in an e-mailed statement.  Visa Europe can defend itself in writing or seek an oral
hearing before EU regulators take a decision on fines that can
amount to 10 percent of yearly sales. Visa Europe split from
 Visa Inc. (V)  before the U.S. card company’s initial public offering
in early 2008.  Cartels Outlawed  The Brussels-based antitrust agency said Visa Europe’s fees
restricted competition between banks and violated EU rules that
outlaw cartels and restrictive business practices.  While the EU has previously said interchange fees aren’t
illegal, regulators said Visa Europe’s fees weren’t set in a way
that would benefit consumers. They also said they doubted the
company’s argument that the fees are necessary to create
efficiencies that benefited retailers and consumers.  The fee, based on Visa’s guidelines, is paid by the
retailer’s bank to the bank that issued the customer’s card. The
EU’s objections cover fees paid on cross-border transactions in
Europe as well as domestic fees in  Belgium ,  Hungary , Ireland,
 Italy , Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands and  Sweden .  MasterCard Challenge  Regulators’ decision to curb  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ’s cross-border
card fees was backed by an EU court last month. The court
rejected MasterCard’s challenge to the EU decision that it
unfairly inflated the transaction fees paid by retailers for
processing payments. MasterCard will appeal the case to the EU’s
highest court.  Retailers have long complained about the cost they are
charged to accept card payments. Unlike for checks, banks charge
interchange fees to process debit- and credit-card payments.
Card operators set the amounts, own the payment networks and
pass the money to the lenders. The retailer’s bank pays the fees
to the customer’s card issuer.  Visa Inc., MasterCard and some of the biggest U.S. banks
this month agreed to a U.S. settlement of at least $6.05 billion
in a price-fixing case brought by retailers over credit-card
swipe fees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 