-- Voters Put Off by Mudslinging Want Plans for U.S. Jobs
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-07-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/voters-put-off-by-mudslinging-want-plans-for-u-s-jobs.html
Tarsha Darden, a 34-year-old family
doctor who lives in  Virginia  Beach, volunteered for President
 Barack Obama ’s first presidential campaign. Now she doesn’t even
know whether she’ll vote for him.  “Normally I’m not a political person but I followed the
last election and this time I’m not really following it because
I just get tired of all the mudslinging,” Darden said as she
shopped in Prince William County in the swing state of Virginia.
“It’s hard to figure out what issues are true and what’s not.”  She plans to make up her mind at the last minute, she said,
after trolling the Internet to learn more about Obama’s platform
and the positions of his Republican rival,  Mitt Romney .  An informal Bloomberg survey this month of voters in
Virginia, Ohio,  Pennsylvania  and  Florida  -- each among the most
crucial swing states -- showed that even those voters who’ve
made their choices for November’s election aren’t necessarily
excited about their picks. They also say they want Obama and
Romney to be more specific about what they intend to do to fix
the economy. And the tenor of the presidential race has left
them weary and disenchanted, in part because of the reliance on
negative ads.  “It’s getting so boring, I’m so tired of it,” said
Richard Pollard, 71, a retired overseas development specialist
who lives in Fredericksburg, Virginia. Pollard says he’ll vote
for Obama even though he feels “a bit let down” by his
handling of the economy as the  jobless rate  remains above 8
percent.  Gauging Enthusiasm  Enthusiasm among Americans about voting this year is
running behind the levels for 2004 and 2008, according to a
 Gallup poll  conducted July 19-22. In the survey, 44 percent said
they were enthusiastic about casting a ballot. That compares
with 48 percent who expressed such an attitude in July 2008 and
59 percent in July 2004.  “The decline in voter enthusiasm this year is consistent
with Gallup’s finding that self-reported likelihood to vote is
lower compared with the fall of 2004 and 2008,” the pollsters
said in their report on the figures.  A common thread among voters interviewed was a yearning for
more detail from both Obama and Romney.  “I’m not sure of some of the policies of either one of
them, and I would like to hear a little bit more from both of
them,” said Eleanor Schwartz, 73, a registered Democrat in
Florida who says she’s undecided.  Schwartz’s friend, Obama supporter Honey Sager, brought her
to a July 19 campaign rally for the president at their West Palm
Beach retirement community.  Jobs Concern  “Today he sounded very encouraging, but having two
grandsons who have been having trouble getting jobs, I want to
know how he’s going to make it better,” Schwartz said.  Dennis Smith , 50, of  Newport News , Virginia, described
himself as reluctantly supporting Romney while wanting to hear
more about his policies.  “Other than repealing Obamacare,” Smith said, referring
to the national health-care law, “I’m not seeing the nuts and
bolts of his economic plan.”  Romney “doesn’t break it down, for instance, how are you
going to reform the  tax code ?” Smith said. He also said the
Republican “doesn’t come across with any charisma.”  Many voters stressed their disgust with the negative tone
that dominates the advertising run by both candidates. Out of
close to 60,000 television ads paid for by the Obama and Romney
campaigns in the 14-day period ended July 23, all but a few
hundred were negative, according to New York-based Kantar
Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising. Obama’s campaign ran
more than twice as many negative spots as Romney’s during the
period, 39,171 to 17,273, CMAG data shows.  ‘Dirty Politics’  “Right now it’s dirty politics; right now, both are
throwing stones. That’s not the way it should be,” said
Shashikant Shah, 78, a retired financial administrator in
Chantilly, Virginia, who intends to vote for Obama.  “It seems like there’s a lot of fighting and arguing” on
both sides, without solutions being offered, said Raymond
Millard of Amherst,  Ohio .  Millard commented on July 5 as he sat nursing a beer at
Ziggy’s Pub and Restaurant, where Obama arrived for a surprise
stop during a two-day bus tour of Ohio and Pennsylvania. Millard
didn’t move from the bar, unlike the throngs of people who
rushed towards the president.  ‘Disappointed’ Voter  “I’m not disappointed in him particularly, just in the way
things are,” said Millard, who voted for Obama in 2008. He said
he likely will do so again, though this time reluctantly.  At an Obama stop during the tour in Beaver, Pennsylvania,
Michael Cirelli stood outside the jewelry business he’s owned
for 27 years and marveled at the dozens of people waiting for a
glimpse of the president.  “I’m probably voting for Romney but I can’t say that I’m
happy with my decision,” said Cirelli. “I’m not happy with who
they presented to us as the Republican nominee and I’m not
satisfied with the Democrats.”  Romney “needs to pick it up,” Cirelli said, and “come up
with some better ideas for the economy.”  The  U.S. economy  cooled in the second quarter as limited
job growth prompted Americans to curb spending while state and
local governments cut back. Gross domestic product rose at a 1.5
percent annual rate from April through June, slowing from a
revised 2.0 percent pace during the first three months of the
year, the Commerce Department reported July 27.  Obama’s listeners at Green Run High School in  Virginia
Beach  on July 13 included Beth Bailey, 38, a 2008 supporter
who’s been disappointed with how he’s handled the economy.  Making Do  “We’re having to make do with what we have,” said Bailey,
a data technician at the school. “My car has been on its last
legs for quite a while now, we’re nursing it along.”  She said she will probably support Obama in November,
though less ardently than four years ago.  “Maybe he did set himself up a little bit for failure,
because people were just expecting so much,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  