-- Whitman Capital Founder Traded on Inside Tips, U.S. Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-08-01T04:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/whitman-capital-founder-traded-on-inside-tips-u-s-says.html
 Doug Whitman, the founder of Whitman
Capital LLC, made almost $1 million for his hedge fund by
trading on inside tips about  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Polycom Inc. (PLCM)  and
 Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) , a prosecutor told jurors.  “The defendant and his partners in crime decided the rules
of stock trading did not apply,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Christopher LaVigne said yesterday in his opening statement in
the insider-trading trial in Manhattan federal court.  LaVigne told jurors they will hear testimony from three of
Whitman’s sources of illicit information, all of whom have
pleaded guilty and are cooperating with the government.  Karl Motey, an independent consultant hired by Whitman,
passed him inside information from two Marvell employees,
LaVigne said. He said  Roomy Khan , a former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  executive
who was Whitman’s neighbor in Atherton, California, passed
Whitman tips from Google and Polycom. Jurors will also hear from
Wesley Wang, a Whitman friend and consultant who admitted
passing tips about  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , Polycom and Marvell,
LaVigne said.  LaVigne told jurors that Whitman sent flowers to Khan after
making money on her tip on Google earnings.  Denies Charges  Whitman denies the charges against him.  David Anderson , a lawyer for Whitman, said in his opening
statement yesterday that his client made money from trading on
legitimate information about technology companies, by trying to
determine whether the information company officials give their
investors is true.  Anderson urged jurors not to believe Motey, Khan and Wang,
whom he called “criminals and liars” testifying against
Whitman in hopes of avoiding prison.  Khan has twice pleaded guilty to charges she passed inside
information to Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, in
2001 and in 2009. Khan’s cooperation after her October 2009
arrest helped the government obtain wiretap warrants and played
a crucial role in the U.S. investigation of insider trading at
 hedge funds .  Rajaratnam, who was convicted of 14 criminal counts in May
2011, is serving an 11-year sentence in a Massachusetts prison.
He’s appealing his conviction.  “Khan has never been held to account for her crimes,”
Anderson told the jury. “She has never been held to account for
her lies. She’s hoping you convict Mr. Whitman so she can remain
free.”  Jury Pool  The panel of 12 jurors and three alternates, including five
teachers, was selected yesterday.  Others from the jury pool were dismissed for connections to
investment banking firms, admitted distrust of “ Wall Street  in
general” and, in one case, for changing a dollar for one of the
attorneys buying coffee this morning.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who is overseeing the trial
in  Manhattan  federal court, said he was particularly
disappointed one member of the pool was not selected -- his
youngest daughter.  “It would be the first time ever that she followed the
court’s instructions,” Rakoff said, laughing.  The case is U.S. v. Whitman, 12-cr-00125, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  