-- Twitter Apologizes for ‘Mess Up’ in Suspending NBC Critic
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-07-31T21:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/twitter-apologizes-for-mess-up-in-suspending-nbc-critic.html
Twitter Inc. apologized for a “mess
up” surrounding the suspension of journalist Guy Adams, who
used tweets to criticize Olympics coverage by the company’s
business partner, NBC.  Twitter blocked Adams’s account after he posted the work e-
mail address of NBC Olympics President Gary Zenkel, urging
people to complain about the network delaying broadcasts of
events. Twitter  said today  that some of its staff, who were
working with NBC in covering the Olympics, identified the tweet
as a violation of its terms of use and then encouraged the
broadcaster to report the violation.  “We want to apologize for the part of this story that we
did mess up,” San Francisco-based Twitter said on its blog.
“We do not proactively report or remove content on behalf of
other users no matter who they are. This behavior is not
acceptable and undermines the trust our users have in us. We
should not and cannot be in the business of proactively
monitoring and flagging content, no matter who the user is --
whether a business partner, celebrity or friend.”  Twitter restored Adams’s account today, following an outcry
over his suspension. Critics said that by initially blocking
Adams’s account, Twitter put the partnership with NBC ahead of
its goal of disseminating information.  Losing Trust  “Twitter has a business relationship with NBC,” said Jeff
Jarvis, a  professor  at  City University  of  New York  Graduate
School of Journalism. “If Twitter acts in a way to favor that
business relationship over the freedom of its platform for its
users, then Twitter risks losing the trust of those users.”  Twitter’s Trust and Safety team, which polices its users,
wasn’t aware that its own employees alerted NBC to the tweet
before the broadcaster filed its complaint, Twitter said today.  “The team working closely with NBC around our Olympics
partnership did proactively identify a tweet that was in
violation of the Twitter rules and encouraged them to file a
support ticket with our Trust and Safety team to report the
violation,” Twitter said on its blog. “Our Trust and Safety
team did not know that part of the story and acted on the report
as they would any other.”  After Adams was reinstated on Twitter today, NBC said it
hadn’t realized that its complaint would lead to his suspension.  Complaint Rescinded  “Our interest was in protecting our executive, not
suspending the user from Twitter,” NBC Sports, a division of
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBCUniversal, said in a statement. “We didn’t
initially understand the repercussions of our complaint, but now
that we do, we have rescinded it.”  Twitter users expressed dismay over Adams’s suspension
using tweets accompanied by the hashtag #twitterfail. The social
network’s users rely on hashtags, marked with a pound symbol, to
make it easier to find posts on the same topic.  “I don’t think I have done anything wrong, and I don’t
think any reasonable person would think I’ve done something
wrong,” Adams, a writer for the U.K.’s Independent newspaper,
said in an interview before his suspension was lifted. “If it’s
standard practice to be immediately suspended after someone
complains, it’s a dangerous policy. I’m surprised because I
always thought Twitter was a company dedicated to the flow of
information.”  Adams had criticized NBC in a number of tweets for its
policy of tape-delaying major Olympic events and the opening
ceremonies so that it could air the programming during prime
time. Live events are available for cable subscribers online.  In posting Zenkel’s corporate e-mail address, Adams was
sharing something he  deemed to be  public and widely available.
Twitter said today those distinctions aren’t always clear.  “We’ve seen a lot of commentary about whether we should
have considered a corporate e-mail address to be private
information,” the company said in its blog response. “There
are many individuals who may use their work e-mail address for a
variety of personal reasons -- and they may not. Our Trust and
Safety team does not have insight into the use of every user’s
e-mail address.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  