-- Twitter Draws Scorn After Blocking Writer Critical of NBC
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-07-31T18:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/twitter-draws-scorn-after-blocking-journalist-critical-of-nbc.html
NBC Olympics President Gary Zenkel,
announcing plans this month to work with Twitter Inc. on
coverage of the games, said the “conversation on Twitter will
rage” around athletes and competition in  London .  Much of the rage yesterday centered on the partnership.  Twitter drew criticism after blocking the account of U.K.
journalist Guy Adams, who had posted Zenkel’s work e-mail
address while complaining about the network’s coverage.
Following the outcry, Twitter restored Adams’s account today.  Critics said that by initially blocking Adams’s account,
Twitter put the partnership with NBC ahead of its goal of
disseminating information. Adams had posted an e-mail address
that he  deemed to be  public and widely available. Twitter should
admit that it made a mistake, said Jeff Jarvis, a  professor  at
 City University  of New York Graduate School of Journalism.  “Twitter has a business relationship with NBC,” said
Jarvis, who wrote “Public Parts: How Sharing in the Digital Age
Improves the Way We Work and Live.” “If Twitter acts in a way
to favor that business relationship over the freedom of its
platform for its users, then Twitter risks losing the trust of
those users.”  The decision to block his account came after NBC complained
that Adams, who writes for the Independent, had violated
Twitter’s privacy policy. Christopher McCloskey, a spokesman for
NBC Sports, told  the Telegraph newspaper  it was Twitter that
initially alerted NBC to Adams’s tweet. NBC then filled out an
online form to complain and submitted it to Twitter.  No Apology  Adams said today Twitter told him his account was restored
because the complainant retracted its original request. No
further explanation or apology was given, he said.  After Adams returned to Twitter, NBC said it hadn’t
realized that its complaint would lead to his suspension.  “Our interest was in protecting our executive, not
suspending the user from Twitter,” NBC Sports, a division of
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBCUniversal, said in a statement. “We didn’t
initially understand the repercussions of our complaint, but now
that we do, we have rescinded it.”  NBC declined to elaborate on McCloskey’s remarks while
reiterating that it was Twitter’s decision to block Adams.  ‘Twitter Alone’  “We filed a complaint with Twitter because a user tweeted
the personal information of one of our executives,” the network
said. “Twitter alone levies discipline.”  Carolyn Penner, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based
Twitter, said her company doesn’t comment on individual accounts
for privacy reasons.  Twitter users expressed dismay over the decision using
tweets accompanied by the hashtag #twitterfail. The social
network’s users rely on hashtags, marked with a pound symbol, to
make it easier to find posts on the same topic.  Twitter says on its website that posting “non-public,
personal e-mail addresses” are examples of private and
confidential information. It doesn’t specify whether work e-
mails are public or non-public.  Adams had criticized NBC in a number of tweets for its
policy of tape-delaying major Olympic events and the opening
ceremonies so that it could air the programming during prime
time. Live events are available for cable subscribers online.  ‘Dangerous Policy’  Adams hasn’t heard from NBC and would have removed the
tweet if NBC had contacted him directly and explained to him why
the network wanted the executive’s work e-mail removed, he said
in an interview.  “I don’t think I have done anything wrong, and I don’t
think any reasonable person would think I’ve done something
wrong,” Adams said. “If it’s standard practice to be
immediately suspended after someone complains, it’s a dangerous
policy. I’m surprised because I always thought Twitter was a
company dedicated to the flow of information.”  The primary issue for Twitter users is the vague definition
of “non-public” and “personal,” Woody Hartzog, a cyber-law
expert and assistant professor at the Cumberland School of Law
at  Samford University  in Birmingham,  Alabama , said in an
interview.  “The law generally has not answered these questions about
privacy, and I’m guessing most Twitter users don’t know
either,” Hartzog said. “Greater clarity is needed.”  Adams’s comment that included Zenkel’s e-mail address was
retweeted many times, meaning it was posted on other users’
Twitter feeds.  Twitter could have handled the situation better by asking
Adams to remove the posting with the e-mail, instead of shutting
down the entire account, said Michael Gartenberg, an analyst at
 Stamford , Connecticut-based Gartner Inc.  “Someone at Twitter should have looked at this in the
larger context because it probably could have been resolved with
a single phone call or with a single e-mail,” Gartenberg said.
“Instead it became this mini-tempest in a teapot when there was
really no reason for it to be anything other than, ‘You’ve
stepped over a guideline of using Twitter. Please step back over
the line and everyone will be happy.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  