-- Yankees’ Losing Streak Hits Three Games as Teixeira Exits
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-31T06:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/yankees-skid-hits-three-with-loss-to-orioles-as-teixeira-exits.html
The  New York  Yankees dropped their
third straight home game, 5-4 to the Baltimore Orioles, and may
lose All-Star first baseman  Mark Teixeira  with a wrist injury.  Wilson Betemit hit a solo home run and Nick Markakis had
three hits and drove in two runs last night for the Orioles at
Yankee Stadium.  The Yankees got back-to-back home runs in the bottom of the
seventh inning from  Eric Chavez  and Ichiro Suzuki to pull within
5-4. They were unable to push across the tying run in the ninth
after a leadoff double by  Nick Swisher  and fell to 13-15 this
season in games decided by one run. The Yankees have now lost
eight of their past 11 games.  “You’d probably be more concerned if you were getting
pounded,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  told reporters. “We’ve
had a chance to win a lot of those 11 games. Eventually, if you
play well, you’ll win those games.”  The Yankees fell to 60-42 and Girardi said after the game
that Teixeira, who injured his right wrist diving for a ball in
the fifth inning, will undergo further tests to determine the
extent of the injury.  Teixeira said he originally hurt the wrist swinging through
a pitch in the Yankees’ July 29 loss to Boston.  “It’s sore,” Teixeira, who said X-rays showed no broken
bones, told reporters. “When I dove, I landed right on my glove
and it tweaked it even more. I went back in the clubhouse, tried
to swing a bat and couldn’t do it.”  The Orioles improved to 54-49 and pulled within 6 1/2 games
of the first-place Yankees in the American League East.  Both Sides  Kendrys Morales of the Angels became the third player in
major league history to hit home runs both right-handed and
left-handed in the same inning, helping Los Angeles to a 15-8
win against the Texas Rangers yesterday.  The only other switch-hitters to hit homers from both sides
of the plate in the same inning were Carlos Baerga for Cleveland
in 1993 and Mark Bellhorn for the  Chicago Cubs  in 2002.  The  Boston Red Sox  extended their winning streak to three
games with a 7-3 victory against the  Detroit Tigers .  The Cincinnati Reds’ run of 10 straight wins ended with an
11-5 loss to the San Diego Padres. The Reds still have a three-
game lead atop the National League Central over the Pittsburgh
Pirates, who lost to the Chicago Cubs 14-4.  Scott Hairston  hit two home runs, including one in the top
of the 10th inning, as the New York Mets beat the San Francisco
Giants 8-7. The Giants remain tied atop the NL West with the Los
Angeles Dodgers, who lost to the Arizona Diamondbacks 7-2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  