-- Zloty in Longest Winning Streak Since March on ECB, Bond Demand
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-07-31T11:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/zloty-in-longest-winning-streak-since-march-on-ecb-bond-demand.html
The Polish zloty appreciated for a
fifth day in its longest streak of gains in almost five months
on expectations the  European Central Bank  will take decisive
steps to stimulate the region’s economy this week.  The zloty advanced 0.3 percent to 4.1029 per euro as of
12:45 p.m. in Warsaw, the strongest intraday level since March
19. It appreciated 2.9 percent in the last five trading days for
the second steepest gain among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on five-year notes
slid six basis points to 4.41 percent.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  pledged last week to “do
whatever it takes” to preserve the common currency, suggesting
policy makers may intervene in bond markets to support ailing
euro-area economies. The euro area is  Poland ’s biggest trading
partner.  “The zloty may stay at stronger levels supported by ECB
actions that will probably boost the risk appetite,” Cezary
Chrapek, a currency and fixed-income analyst at Citigroup Inc.’s
Polish unit, wrote in an e-mailed note to clients. The currency
is also being supported “by foreign investor demand for Polish
bonds,” he said.  Foreign investors increased their holdings of Polish bonds
by 6.5 billion zloty ($1.9 billion) in June, the steepest
monthly rise this year, to a record 174 billion zloty,  Piotr Marczak , the head of the  Finance Ministry ’ public debt
department wrote in a statement yesterday.  The government will seek to sell from 2 billion zloty to 4
billion zloty of five-year bonds tomorrow at its only debt
auction in August, according to the Finance Ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  