-- Zynga COO Said to Lose Product Oversight as Growth Slows
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-08-02T01:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-31/zynga-coo-said-to-lose-product-oversight-as-growth-slows.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  Chief Operating Officer
John Schappert was stripped of his role overseeing game
development in a reorganization aimed at reviving growth and
making more money from mobile services, people with knowledge of
the matter said.  David Ko, who runs Zynga’s  mobile operations , and Steve Chiang, executive vice president of games -- both of whom
reported to Schappert -- now report directly to Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Pincus , the social-gaming company said today,
confirming information from people who yesterday asked not to be
identified because the changes hadn’t been made public.  “We reorganized our teams in July to integrate Web and
mobile groups,” Zynga said today in an e-mailed statement. .  Pincus embarked on the overhaul in early July, at the close
of a quarter marked by slowing sales growth and a drop in demand
for virtual goods. Schappert, lured away last year from
 Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  with a pay package worth $42.8 million, has
lost support within the company and taken some of the blame for
its underperformance, the people said.  “The place is in utter meltdown mode,”  Richard Greenfield , an analyst at BTIG LLC in  New York , said yesterday
in an interview. “The real question I think everyone should be
asking is why it took reporting a collapse in earnings to make a
management change.”  Shares of Zynga fell 4.8 percent to $2.81 at the close in
New York, the lowest price since the company held its initial
public offering in December. The stock has dropped 72 percent
since the market debut. The decline accelerated last week after
Zynga reported sales and profit that missed analysts’
predictions.  Mobile Priority  The reorganization was aimed in part at making mobile-
software development more of a priority across Zynga, the people
said. Ko will work with Chiang to involve more of the company’s
best designers on apps for smartphones and tablets, they said.  Zynga makes money by selling virtual goods within its games
-- say, a gun in “Mafia Wars,” or a tractor in “FarmVille.”  Renewed emphasis on mobile may help Zynga lessen its
reliance on  Facebook Inc. (FB) , which accounts for about 80 percent
of  bookings , or the total value of virtual goods sold in its
games. Zynga contributes 14 percent of Facebook’s revenue, the
 Menlo Park , California-based social network said yesterday in a
filing.  Zynga may have had a duty to disclose the management
changes to shareholders in its second-quarter filings, BTIG’s
Greenfield said in a blog post today.  EA Veteran  “We are surprised that Zynga’s public filings do not
clearly explain what happened and why, given the importance of
the reasons behind the reorg, as well as the seniority of
executives involved,” Greenfield wrote.  Schappert joined Zynga in April 2011 after spending much of
his career at its chief rival. He began at Electronic Arts in
1998 when the game giant acquired his development company,
Tiburon Studios. He left in 2007 to head Microsoft Corp.’s Xbox
Live unit before returning to EA in 2009 as president and chief
operating officer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  