-- ‘Friends of Syria’ Group Seeks Ways to End Assad Attacks
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-02-23T12:46:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/-friends-of-syria-seek-to-end-assad-campaign.html
The “Friends of  Syria ” gather
tomorrow in  Tunisia  to seek ways to oust President Bashar al- Assad, who has dug in with increasing violence against civilian
opponents after two failed  United Nations  Security Council
measures.  Hanging over the Tunis meeting, which is drawing foreign
ministers and other officials from about 80 nations, is the
sustained bombardment of Homs, Syria’s third-largest city, where
two journalists were among the fatalities from regime mortar and
artillery fire. In a report just hours before her death Feb. 21,
American Marie Colvin of Britain’s Sunday Times said what she
had seen of the regime’s brutality was “absolutely sickening.”  “No one here can understand how the international
community can let this happen,”  Colvin told the BBC  in a
telephone interview. After witnessing the death of a two-year-
old baby, hit by shrapnel, in a makeshift clinic set up in an
apartment, she said: “This is happening over and over.”  Assad’s forces resumed shelling the Baba Amr neighborhood
of Homs at 7 a.m. today, the U.K.-based  Syrian Observatory for
Human Rights  said. The residential area is where Colvin and
French photographer Remi Ochlik were killed.  ‘Campaign of Terror’  In London, U.K Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said Colvin
and Ochlik “died bringing us the truth about what is happening
to the people of Homs.” Governments around the world “have the
responsibility to act upon that truth -- and to redouble our
efforts to stop the Assad regime’s despicable campaign of
terror,” Hague said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  That’s the goal of the Tunis gathering, the first meeting
of the Friends group set up in the aftermath of the setbacks at
the UN.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  is scheduled to
join other foreign ministers and representatives of
international organizations to seek options to help the Syrian
opposition and to counter an image of collective ineffectiveness
against a regime sheltered by two Russian and Chinese vetoes of
 Security Council  resolutions calling on Assad to step down.
Russia announced it isn’t attending the meeting.  The countries come to Tunis with differing agendas. Some,
such as the U.S., would rather not see the conflict become more
militarized, while  Qatar  has suggested arming the opposition.
 France  floated the idea of establishing a humanitarian aid
corridor, which was quickly rebuffed by the U.S. and others as
unworkable.  Clinton Talks  Clinton discussed Syria with foreign ministers from  Turkey ,
Qatar, Saudi Arabia, France and  Germany  at a conference on
Somalia in London today. The meetings focused on the need to get
humanitarian aid to Syrians in besieged cities, according to a
U.S. official who spoke on condition of anonymity because he
wasn’t authorized to speak on the record.  The Friends group will present concrete proposals on aid,
and it will be incumbent on the Assad government to allow that
aid into Syria within days, the official said.  Clinton’s talks this morning also looked at ways to support
an  Arab League  plan that calls for Assad to step down and hand
power to a deputy. A final focus was on making sure that
international efforts to sanction Syria are coordinated to
heighten the pressure on Assad, the official said.  With Syria’s large weapons stockpiles, and the potential
for violence to keep getting worse and destabilize neighbors,
the stakes are high for the meeting, analysts such as Joshua Landis said.  Risk of Failure  “These nations are coming together as a group, but they’re
doing it in part out of fear,” said Landis, director of the
Middle East Studies program at the University of Oklahoma in
Norman. “The risk of getting nothing done is very high.”  That “fear” is that without coordination, the fractured
opposition will be armed in a haphazard way, with different
regional, ethnic and religious actors supporting different
militias and ideological currents within Syria, leading to civil
war.  Under a barrage of international criticism,  Russia  is
showing signs of backing away from its steadfast defense of
Syria, a Soviet-era ally to which it sells weapons. Saudi
Arabia’s King Abdullah chastised Russian President Dmitry Medvedev yesterday over the phone for his country’s Feb. 6 veto,
according to the official Saudi Press Agency.  Daily Truce  In recent days, Moscow officials have come out publicly in
support of humanitarian aid to Syria, including a two-hour daily
truce proposed by the International Committee of the Red Cross,
as well as a UN special envoy to the Middle Eastern country.  Noting that shift in position, European diplomats at the UN
want to return to the Security Council for a third time soon
after the meeting in Tunis, according to a Western diplomat at
the UN who spoke on condition of anonymity because plans haven’t
been made final.  Any new draft resolution must endorse the Arab League plan
for a political transition and can’t equate the violence
unleashed by Assad’s security forces with that of opposition
members defending themselves, the diplomat said.  The UN estimates that Assad’s crackdown killed 5,400 last
year while  Saudi Arabia  says the death toll is at least 7,000.
Humanitarian and activist groups say hundreds more have died in
the weeks since that estimate.  Narrowing Options  Looming over the Tunis gathering is how to support the
opposition amid a narrowing menu of options.  Some nations, such as Qatar, seem open to the possibility
of arming insurgents, and the U.S. has signaled it may soften
its opposition. White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  told
reporters that the administration doesn’t “rule out additional
measures if the international community should wait too long”
to take needed actions.  “Right now, there is no change, but we’re looking at
potential options,”  Andrew Shapiro , the U.S. assistant
secretary of state for political-military affairs, said in an
interview yesterday in  Washington .  Both the U.S. and EU want tighter sanctions on Syria. The
27-nation EU is considering a freeze on central bank assets and
a ban on imports of precious metals, an EU official told
reporters in Brussels today on condition of anonymity.  A previous EU plan to ban imports of phosphates from Syria
has been dropped because the measure didn’t get support from all
member nations, the official said. EU governments are willing to
include a ban on Syrian cargo-only flights to the bloc among the
new measures, according to the official.  Arab League Sanctions  The Arab League already has suspended Syria and imposed
economic sanctions against it.  Agreeing on sanctions may be the easy part.  French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  raised on Feb. 15 the
idea of opening humanitarian corridors. France was at the
forefront of the international effort to arm and eventually
provide NATO air cover for Libyan rebels, a situation Russia and
 China  don’t want to see repeated.  The French suggestion was swiftly rejected by Western
allies as impractical and difficult to implement without troops
on the ground. The aid group Doctors Without Borders said it
would “militarize medical aid and make it a target.”  For the U.S., the prospect of getting involved in another
Middle Eastern conflict in an election year is especially
unpalatable, said an administration official who spoke on
condition of anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to talk to
the media. On the heels of wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan , the
U.S. will resist military involvement that could end in a
situation that the U.S. would have to stay and preside over, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  London  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net 
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the United Nations at
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at  at  jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  