-- Magyar Telekom Climbs to 7-Month High on Sales: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-02-23T16:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/magyar-telekom-climbs-second-day-on-higher-sales-budapest-mover.html
Magyar Telekom Nyrt. (MTEL) ,  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) ’s Hungarian unit, climbed to the highest in seven
months after reporting sales and earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization rose in the fourth quarter.  The shares advanced 1 percent to 586 forint by the close in
Budapest, the highest level since July 1. The benchmark BUX
stock index was little changed at 19,063.72. Magyar Telekom fell
1.7 percent earlier today.  Ebitda at the former phone monopoly jumped to 46.7 billion
forint ($215 million) from 26 billion forint the same period a
year earlier, and revenue increased 1.6 percent, it said in an
e-mailed statement. Underlying Ebitda, which excludes
provisions, severance, a special telecom tax, and costs tied to
an investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
increased to 57.7 billion forint from 57.3 billion forint in the
same period of 2010.  “Sales and underlying EBITDA came in better than
expected,” Gergely Palffy, a Budapest-based equities analyst at
 KBC Groep NV (KBC) ’s broker unit, said in a telephone interview today.  Magyar Telekom is proposing a dividend of 50 forint per
share after the 2011 financial year, the company said in a
separate statement. The net loss totaled 38.7 billion forint,
compared with a profit of 9.7 billion forint a year earlier, as
the company recognized a 31.4 billion-forint impairment loss
tied to its Macedonian unit.  “The Macedonian item is negative but it won’t affect cash-
flow,” Palffy said.  Concorde Ertekpapir Zrt. is maintaining its “equal
weight” recommendation on Magyar Telekom as the expected entry
of a fourth competitor in the mobile market poses a threat for
the stock, according to Attila Gyurcsik, a Budapest-based
analyst.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  