-- Ai Weiwei’s Defiant Images, Berenice Abbott’s New York: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-02-23T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/ai-weiwei-s-defiant-images-berenice-abbott-s-new-york-jorg-von-uthmann.html
It’s a classic case of unintended
consequences. By harassing and arresting Ai Weiwei, the Chinese
authorities have catapulted him to international stardom.  In June 2011, the conceptual artist, architect and
photographer was released on bail after being detained for 81
days on charges of  tax evasion  and spreading pornography on the
Internet. He is still prohibited from leaving Beijing without
permission.  Otherwise, he certainly would have attended the opening of
“Entrelacs,” or Interlacing, the photo show at the  Jeu de
Paume , his first big exhibition in Paris.  Ai, who was born in 1957, is no photographer in the
conventional sense. He cares less about the medium than about
the message. His pictures, often taken with a cellphone and
published on the Web, are technically and aesthetically
unremarkable.  What matters to him is their documentary value.  The show starts with the decade (1983-93) Ai spent in New
York. He recorded his life on the Lower East Side, his friends
and neighbors, the decay, the homeless, and clashes between
demonstrators and the police.  Returning to  China , he was appalled by the destruction of
old neighborhoods and villages to make room for soulless high-
rise buildings. His series “Provisional Landscapes” is a sad
comment on this perverse sense of progress.  Fingering Tiananmen  Ai’s answer to the crushing of the pro-democracy protests
in 1989 was “Study of Perspective,” a satirical photo series
giving Tiananmen Square, where the massacre took place, “the
finger.” Since then, he has extended the series to other
locations throughout the world.  In 2007, Ai was invited by  Documenta , the contemporary art
exhibition held every five years in Kassel,  Germany . He arrived
with a “living installation” of 1,001 compatriots for whom he
organized tickets, visas and lodging in an abandoned factory.  “Fairytale Portraits,” the title of the series, is an apt
description of the wonderment his guests -- many from the
provinces and modest backgrounds -- must have experienced in a
foreign country.  Serious trouble with the authorities started after the 2008
earthquake in the province of Sichuan. Among the more than
60,000 dead were many children who perished in their shoddily
built schools. When Ai later tried to get an official list of
the casualties he was beaten up by the police.  To Western eyes, his photographs of the disaster area look
harmless. Yet the Chinese authorities suspected, not without
reason, that he was criticizing their corruption and negligence.  This is an exhibition that forces you to read between the
lines -- a practice that is prevalent under totalitarian
regimes, less so in democracies.  Cool Eye  On the ground floor of the Jeu de Paume, you’ll find the
documentary portrait of another city --  New York  in the 1930s.
The photographer is Berenice Abbott (1898-1991), who was funded
by the Works Progress Administration, the New Deal agency.  In the 1920s, Ohio-born Abbott lived in Paris where she
discovered the work of Eugene Atget, who had systematically
photographed the streets and monuments of the French capital. In
1928, she bought a large part of Atget’s estate. His cool and
detached approach is also typical of her New York series.  In Paris, Abbott was an assistant to Man Ray and
specialized in portraits. The first section of the show is a
parade of literary and artistic celebrities.  She loved to portray her sitters in unconventional outfits
and poses -- women with masculine haircuts and clothes, Jean Cocteau with a gun directed at the photographer.  The most fascinating part of the show is Abbott’s
scientific work. In 1957, after the Soviets had launched the
Sputnik satellite, she was hired by the  Massachusetts Institute
of Technology  as an illustrator of new textbooks meant to
popularize science in U.S. schools.  Many of her photographs have an abstract beauty that
wouldn’t have displeased her avant-garde friends in Paris.  The two shows, which are supported by Neuflize Vie and the
 Terra Foundation , run through April 29. Information:
 http://www.jeudepaume.org .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 