-- AIA Group Profit Drops 41% on Stock Losses
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-02-24T02:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/aia-group-full-year-profit-drops-41-missing-estimates-on-equities-losses.html
AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , the third-largest
Asia-based insurer by market value, posted a 41 percent drop in
annual profit as stock investment losses overshadowed growth in
new business. The shares advanced to a six-month high.  Net income  fell to $1.6 billion, or 13 cents a share, in
the 12 months to Nov. 30, from $2.7 billion, or 22 cents a share,
a year earlier, the Hong Kong-based company said in a statement
to the city’s stock exchange today. Fourteen analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg  estimated  an average profit of $1.66 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Mark Tucker has been trying to
rebuild the insurer  operating  in 15 Asian markets by boosting
the profitability of new businesses and agent productivity. The
company’s value of new business, the measure of the projected
future profitability of new policies that Tucker has focused on,
surged 40 percent last year to $932 million.  “Overall this was a very strong set of numbers, on average
in-line or ahead of market consensus,” Barclays Plc analysts
Mark Kellock and Thomas Wang wrote in a research note today.
“We see further operational upside as AIA continues to improve
productivity, business quality and profit margins.”  The shares rose 1.6 percent to HK$27.85 as of 9:59 a.m. in
 Hong Kong  trading, the highest since Aug. 4. They have  gained  21
percent since the stock started trading on Oct. 29, 2010,
outperforming Hong Kong-quoted shares of peers China Life
Insurance Co., Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. and Prudential Plc.  AIA’s operating profit after tax, before the investment
losses, climbed 13 percent to $1.9 billion. It declared a final
dividend of 22 Hong Kong cents per share.  New Business  The growth in the value of new business was ahead of
analysts’ consensus estimate of $870 million, driven by a
bigger-than-expected 4.6 percentage point expansion in new
business margin to 37.2 percent, according to the Barclays note.  “We have continued to deliver strong growth in our key
performance measures,” said Tucker, 54, in the statement. “The
potential exists for continuing global economic uncertainties to
have a negative impact upon Asian economic growth rates and
consequently upon AIA’s business.”  Embedded value  of AIA increased 10 percent to $27 billion
from a year earlier, according to the statement. The estimate of
the economic value of life insurance business using actuarial
and investment assumptions is used to value life insurers.  AIA was hurt in 2008 by troubles at its bailed-out biggest
shareholder  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and uncertainties
surrounding its attempted  takeover  by Prudential Plc in 2010.  Asia Growth  Without external economic shocks having a major impact on
 Asia , Tucker said that the region’s wealth and low insurance
ownership together with future economic growth will drive the
demand and expansion of AIA’s products and services.  AIA recognizes all of the fair value changes of its equity
investments in the profit and loss account, the Barclays
analysts said in a Feb. 22 report. The insurer reported $207
million of net losses from equities after tax, against the $853
million gain the year before.  Insurers like AIA suffered losses on stock market
investments as the European debt crisis clouded the global
economic outlook and dented investor confidence, sending the
 MSCI Asia Ex-Japan Index (MXASJ)  down 19 percent last year.  “Apart from new business contribution, investment return
remains the biggest swing factor” for embedded value and profit
after tax growth, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts Mancy Sun
and Philippa Rogers wrote in a Feb. 8 report.  Its mark-to-market losses on investments will have been
“fully reversed” by this morning, Tucker said during a call
with reporters today.  Well Capitalized  American International Group Inc., AIA’s biggest
shareholder, posted a $1 billion mark-to-market gain on its AIA
stake as it reported a 77 percent jump in fourth-quarter profit
yesterday. AIG still owns 33 percent of AIA after selling a
majority stake in the Asian insurer in its 2010 initial public
offering to repay a 2008 government rescue that totaled $182.3
billion. A lockup on its holdings will be lifted in April,
according to the Barclays report.  AIA’s free surplus, a measure of excess capital over what
is required to be held by regulators, surged 19 percent to $5.9
billion.  Solvency Ratio  Its solvency ratio, which measures the actual capital
against the minimum capital requirement, stood at 311 percent.
The insurer plans to maintain a strong balance sheet, capital
position and cash level in light of continued market swings in
the foreseeable future and conservative regulators, Tucker said.  He declined to comment on reports on its interest to buy
ING Groep NV’s Asian business in a deal that may be valued at
more than $6 billion.  “If it makes sense, if we find it adds value to
shareholders, if it’s financially viable, we will look at
opportunities,” he said of potential acquisitions. “But we’re
99 percent focused on organic growth.”  AIA asked investment banks to advise it on the possible bid,
two people with knowledge of the matter said last month.  South Korea  and  Japan , where AIA is weak, contributed 80
percent of ING Asia’s earnings last year and 75 percent of gross
written premiums and new business sales, the Credit Suisse
analysts wrote in a Feb. 14 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  