-- Maine Gay-Marriage Backers Get Enough Signatures to Put Question on Ballot
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-02-23T22:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/maine-gay-marriage-backers-get-enough-signatures-to-put-question-on-ballot.html
Voters in  Maine (STOME1)  will decide in
November whether to allow same-sex couples to marry after state
officials confirmed enough valid signatures to place the
question on the ballot.  Secretary of State Charles E. Summers Jr. verified more
than 85,000 of the 105,000 signatures submitted last month, said
Barbara Redmond, his deputy secretary. About 57,000 names were
required, according to EqualityMaine, the Portland-based gay-
rights group leading the coalition that collected them.  “Same-sex couples want to marry for the same reasons other
couples want to marry: because they love each other and want to
spend their lives together,” Betsy Smith, EqualityMaine’s
executive director, said in a statement. “There’s no question
that momentum is growing for same-sex marriage in  Maine .”  It will be the second time Mainers confront the issue at
the ballot box. In 2009, voters rejected by 53 percent to 47
percent a law permitting gay marriage that was championed by
Democratic lawmakers and signed by then-Governor John Baldacci,
also a Democrat. In 2010, Republicans won control of both
legislative chambers and the governor’s seat for the first time
since 1966.  The law wouldn’t require religious institutions or clergy
to perform the marriages in violation of their religious
beliefs. Anti-gay marriage advocates have vowed to fight the
measure.  Maine voters would be the first in the U.S. to give same-
sex partners the right to wed. Court rulings or legislation led
to the change in seven states and the  District of Columbia .
Voters have rejected legalization in all 31 referendums on the
issue, according to Freedom to Marry, a New York-based national
advocacy organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net . 