-- Air Mauritius Plans Manpower Audit as Part of Savings Drive
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2012-02-23T12:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/air-mauritius-plans-manpower-audit-as-part-of-savings-drive.html
Air Mauritius Ltd. (AML) , sub-Saharan
 Africa ’s fourth-biggest airline, will carry out a manpower audit
to assess staffing requirements as it cuts routes and redeploys
aircraft, said Donald Payen, its executive vice-president.  “The number of employees per seat is one to one,” twice
the ratio for large airlines, Payen said in an e-mailed response
to questions today. “We must interpret these figures with
caution as large airlines have economies of scale which we don’t
have. Our manpower audit will tell us what relates to scale and
what is not.”  Port Louis-based l’Express newspaper reported on Feb. 20
that the airline may fire as many as 500 of its 2,800 staff,
citing Jack Bizlall, a negotiator on behalf of the employees.  The airline’s recovery plan “does not refer to staff
cuts,” Payen said. “We however need to bring more efficiency
to the organization and more robust performance management
systems.” Firings would be a “last resort,” with other
options including retraining, unpaid leave and voluntary
retirement, he said.  The airline announced losses of 21 million euros ($28
million) for the nine months through December, prompting a
restructuring plan aimed at returning to profit in the fiscal
year through March 2014. Weekly flights to European destinations
such as Geneva, Milan and  Frankfurt  will be halted, and the
company plans to sell an Airbus jet by the end of 2012.  The staff-to-seats ratio “shows that Air Mauritius has, in
a certain way, an excess workforce,” said Kishen Nadassen, a
senior analyst at  CIM Stockbrokers Ltd  in  Port Louis , in a phone
interview. “The manpower audit will help to address the issue.
It’s a positive approach towards making the airline more
efficient.”  The  stock  declined for a first day in five, dropping by 0.8
percent to 12.90 rupees, extending its loss this year to 19
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  