-- Learn to Spin a Lamborghini on Ice: Jason H. Harper
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-02-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/lamborghini-s-400-000-snowy-slide-is-too-cool-for-school-jason-h-harper.html
What was it, 10, 20 years since you
took a driver’s education class? You passed your exam, got your
license and school’s been out ever since. Shame. You could use a
little help behind the wheel.  Learn to be smoother, to pay more attention and look
further up the road than you’re accustomed. Find out what to do
when you hit ice and your car slides toward the embankment.
(Answer: Turn into the skid, then counter-correct -- quickly! --
and repeat, if necessary, until the fish-tailing is under
control.)  The only way to learn is practice, in a closed-off, safe
place. Because when it happens in the real world, it’s too late.  Sorry to lecture, but I’ve just spent hours on a Catskills
racetrack coated in snow and ice, and I got my butt handed to
me.  Every one of my bad habits was magnified in these slippery
conditions. Coming off the brake too abruptly, usually not a big
deal, resulted in unwanted trajectories toward tire walls and
metal barricades.  And I do this for a living.  It’s time to go back to school. There are courses around
the world that will teach even seasoned drivers better car
control techniques, for daily use on regular roads. Unlike
school days of yore, you can have the time of your life,
piloting  Cadillacs (GM) ,  Lamborghinis (LAM)  and Porsches, often on world-
famous racetracks.  Cadillac on Ice  In my case, I was on a winter-driving course run jointly by
Cadillac and Monticello Motor Club, two hours from  Manhattan .
For $695, you spend a half day with private instructors in CTS
sedans and SRX crossovers, snow willing.  I broke fresh tracks around the road course in an all-
wheel-drive, 270-horsepower CTS. The car isn’t light, so getting
around the course is a question of finesse, not muscle.  Chief instructor Matt Sklarz rode in the right seat, gently
chiding me when I screwed up. “A bit too aggressive,” he said,
as I hurled sideways into a turn and spun 180 degrees.  I often drive this track fast and safely. But at 20 mph in
the slick stuff, my “wrecks” were slow motion, and small
errors came into sharp focus in a way they don’t at 110 mph.
Normally I’m trying to slice seconds off my lap time; now I was
able to focus on the errors which make that difficult  Regaining control of a wayward automobile is often counter-
intuitive. In some conditions like driving in snow, you may turn
the steering wheel and find that the car itself isn’t turning.
This is a phenomenon called understeer and one of the ways to
fix it is to uncork the wheel, not turn it more.  Muscle Memory  “Undo the thing that got you into the situation in the
first place,” says Sklarz. “You have to practice. Muscle
memory is the only way.”  I could have been teaching my muscles the same techniques
in a $400,000 Lamborghini Aventador on an ice track outside of
Cortina,  Italy .  The Italian carmaker teaches customers to drift its latest,
high-powered flagship and various Gallardo coupes. Good thing
they’re all-wheel-drive. The price is 5,950 euro ($7,870) and
various track and “extreme”  courses  are offered throughout the
year.  Perhaps you’re already over the snow and would prefer dry
tarmac. One of the most venerable U.S. driving schools is Skip Barber, which offers both car-control and racing classes around
the country, on legendary road courses like  Connecticut ’s Lime
Rock and Monterey’s Laguna Seca. Cars include open-wheeled
racers,  Porsches (PAH3) , Lotuses and Mazda Miatas.  Skidding Mazdas  If you’ve got a new teen driver or want a taste of basic
car control techniques (like managing that skid), the  Mazda
Driving School  is an excellent bet. At prices starting at
$1,000, every driver would benefit.  My first taste of performance driving was at a Skip Barber
event. I couldn’t believe just how hard you could hurl a Porsche
Boxster into a tight curve, brakes burning and tires singing.
I’ve suffered from track madness ever since.  This year I’ll take a three-day  Skip Barber  race school,
which includes advanced stuff like racing in the rain.  Still, I’ve learned more from Porsche instructors than
anyone else. The company offers a full range of beginner to
advanced classes at Barber Motorsports in Birmingham,  Alabama .
(It’s not affiliated with Skip Barber.)  The track itself is manicured like a golf course, with
blind hills and jarringly fast straightaways. There are women’s
only days, one-day classes and even an advanced course driving
GT3 Cup race cars (which I’m so going to do).  Instructors include the likes of Hurley Haywood, who won
the 24 Hours of  Le Mans  three times and 24 Hours of Daytona
five. I’ve known him for around a dozen years and he’s a great
instructor, but he doesn’t mince words.  “You’re a student who’s really come a long way,” he told
me recently. “Because when we first met, you were a terrible
driver.”  Cadillac Winter Driving Experience, $695; racing schools
also offered. Information: +1-877-578-7223, extension 293;
 http://www.monticellomotorclub.com/winter .  Lamborghini Academy, winter and track events, prices vary.
Information: +39-051-681-7728;
 http://www.lamborghiniacademy.com .  Skip Barber Racing School, courses from $800. Information:
+1-866-932-1949;  http://www.skipbarber.com .  Porsche Sport Driving School, courses from $1,800.
Information: +1-888-204-7474;  http://www.porschedriving.com .  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 