-- American Electric’s Ohio Rate Settlement Rejected by State
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2012-02-23T21:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/american-electric-s-ohio-rate-settlement-rejected-by-state-3-.html
The Public Utilities Commission of
 Ohio  rejected an  American Electric Power Co. (AEP)  rate settlement
agreement after some customers complained bills were increasing
by more than 30 percent.  American Electric’s Ohio subsidiary must return rates to
December levels until a new plan is adopted, according to a
commission  statement  today. The rate settlement, submitted with
21 other parties and initially approved by the commission in
December, is part of a four-year transition to competitive power
markets in Ohio.  “The evidence in the record inadvertently failed to
present a full and accurate record of the actual bill impacts to
be felt by customers,” Todd Snitchler, chairman of the Public
Utilities Commission, said in the statement.  The commission said two weeks ago it would address the
“significant impacts” rate changes were having on small
businesses, school districts and local governments, after
receiving complaints about “exorbitant bill increases.”  American Electric, which serves more than five million
customers in 11 states,  fell  4.8 percent to $37.91 at the close
in  New York , the biggest drop in six months.  “We are concerned by the commission’s reaction to what we
believe were solvable issues on rehearing,” Chief Executive
Officer Nick Akins said in an e-mailed statement. “We are
currently evaluating our options and the potential financial and
operational impacts on AEP Ohio.”  Some customers faced rate increases of as much as 30
percent under the settlement, as power prices are transitioned
from state regulation to reflect the costs of electricity on
wholesale markets, according to testimony to the commission.  Disproportionate Increases  “Since we issued the opinion and order, numerous customers
have filed, in the case record of this proceeding, actual bills
containing total bill rate increases disproportionately higher
than the 30 percent predicted by AEP-Ohio,” the commission
wrote in  an order  granting rehearing requests today.  The commission also said there’s “significant
uncertainty” about American Electric’s plan to sell  power
plants  from a regulated subsidiary to an affiliate.  Ohio’s move to competitive markets is “one of the
fundamental changes that’s occurring for our company,” Akins
said in a Feb. 21 interview on Bloomberg Radio. “That’s going
to be a radical change for Ohio.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Haas in New York at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  