-- Ancient Killer Bug Thrives in Shadow of London’s Canary Wharf
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2012-02-23T05:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/ancient-killer-bug-thrives-in-shadow-of-london-s-canary-wharf-skyscrapers.html
In the shadows of some of  London ’s
tallest skyscrapers and richest banks lurks a disease borne of
the poverty and squalor usually associated with the Victorian
era rather than a 21st-century financial capital.  Tuberculosis  is staging a comeback in London, where some
neighborhoods suffer infection rates found in African countries
in which the disease is endemic. The number of cases surged 50
percent in the 10 years to 2009, according to a National Health
Service agency.  The airborne bacteria has taken root in a population of
recent immigrants, addicts and homeless who live close to
affluent business districts and may pose a risk for those they
rub elbows with.  “You wouldn’t expect to see that,” says Brian McCloskey,
the  Health Protection Agency ’s regional director for London.
“TB is one of the biggest public health problems we have.”  One hotspot is  Tower Hamlets , a borough that draws together
Canary Wharf, the home of some of  Europe ’s largest banks, and
pockets of poverty that stretch along the Thames’ old docks east
of the Tower of London and north past Whitechapel, where Jack
the Ripper preyed on prostitutes in 1888.  Tuberculosis, transmitted by coughs and sneezes, doesn’t
just strike the needy.  After a worker at a Canary Wharf bank fell ill in 2010,
Julian Surey, a nurse at Tower Hamlets Tuberculosis Service in
East London, says he was sent with colleagues to her office to
screen 14 of her co-workers, a challenge in an open-space
environment where employees share keyboards and telephones.  Single Sneeze  “They were hot-desking and it was a nightmare,” Surey
says. “People did get concerned.” Some workers demanded to see
private doctors rather than be tested and treated by the state-
run NHS, the 37-year-old nurse recalled. One person who sat next
to the original patient contracted TB, according to Surey. He
declined to identify the bank, as did other nurses.  One sneeze can release up to 40,000 droplets and each one
can potentially cause infection. An untreated patient can infect
up to 15 others a year, the  World Health Organization  estimates.  The condition, which can remain dormant in the body for
decades but spread through the air and require extended courses
of antibiotics once it has been roused, is difficult to
diagnose, treat and contain.  “Can you get it on the Tube? In theory, yes,” Surey says.
“It can go to everyone,” he says of the disease, which once
active can kill half of those it infects if they aren’t treated.  Transmission is more common among members of the same
household, according to McCloskey. Treatment usually requires
taking one or two antibiotics for three to six months, costing
about 2,000 pounds ($3,155) for an uncomplicated case.  ‘Not Just Tablets’  Drugs are only part of the solution. Tuberculosis is a
sensitive subject with social and political ramifications, says
Graham Cooke, a senior lecturer in the department of medicine at
the Faculty of Medicine at Imperial College London.  In the U.K. capital, 84 percent of the 3,302 people
infected in 2010 were foreign-born, according to the HPA, which
means they may be grappling with language barriers, fear of
stigmatization or homelessness.  “You don’t just give them tablets,” says Surey, who has
worked as a nurse in Calcutta,  India  and  Lima ,  Peru . “You have
to understand the community.”  That’s why one of his most trusted tools for dealing with
patients is a bike.  Since people who stop treatment early can become contagious
and develop a form of the disease resistant to almost all
antibiotics, Surey cycles around delivering appointment
reminders to homeless patients, ensuring others take their pills
and tracking down those who skip appointments.  Leaning on a Lamppost  “If they don’t take their medicine, they could become
infectious again,” says Surey, who recently chased down a young
addict after she absconded from a  Royal London Hospital  ward
during treatment. “I went out on my bike and found her,
bloodied and drunk on Brick Lane, leaning against a lamppost.”  The disease was as prevalent in London as in some of the
world’s poorer nations in 2010. The city had 43 cases per
100,000 overall and rates of 65 or more per 100,000 in hotbeds
such as Tower Hamlets, some of them on par with Karonga district
in Malawi, says  Ali Zumla , a professor at  University College
London . By contrast, New York reports nine cases per 100,000
people and Berlin eight.  Two Cities  The U.K.’s colonial history, which ties it to countries
like India,  Pakistan ,  Nigeria  and  Bangladesh  where tuberculosis
is rife, plays a role. London’s growth as a financial capital,
which acts as an immigration magnet, combined with the city’s
residual pockets of poverty, is also a factor, according to the
HPA’s McCloskey.  The European Union’s most populous city, London is home to
 241 foreign banks  and 65 Michelin-starred restaurants. The
average annual pay for a City of London worker is 42,000 pounds,
according to a 2010 PriceWaterhouseCoopers  report .  Tower Hamlets shares some of that wealth as bankers and
lawyers jostle out of the Underground and into the headquarters
of banks like  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBC) . Two miles from
the stadium where the  Summer Olympics  will be held later this
year, it also ranks as one of the country’s most deprived
boroughs, with the highest child poverty rate in  England  as well
as the capital’s fifth-highest tuberculosis rate.  “One of the richest areas of London is also cheek by jowl
with one of the poorest,” says Francis Drobniewski, director of
the HPA’s  National Mycobacterium Reference Laboratory , which
analyses laboratory samples for the presence of TB germs.  Global Resurgence  For some, the epidemic may be the price to pay for success.  “You can’t separate it from the fact that London has
positioned itself as a financial capital,”  Imperial College
London ’s Cooke said. “People have a tendency to see it as a bad
thing. If you see it as a marker for international economic
activity, it’s not.”  London isn’t the only city battling a resurgence of TB.
Cities from  Melbourne  to the metropolitan area around Phoenix,
 Arizona , have also seen increases fuelled by the global movement
of people and bugs. As infected humans zip across oceans, the
bacteria can develop genetic mutations that enable it to evade
drugs or linger longer in the respiratory tract. The medical
journal Clinical Infectious Diseases in December reported a new
strain in four patients in India that appears to resist all
known antibiotics.  “The global threat from multi-drug resistant TB is huge,”
says Cooke. “We should expect to see more in this country.
There is a risk of resistance rates increasing if therapy is
inadequate.”  About 87 percent of TB patients in London completed
treatment in 2010, according to the HPA, exceeding the WHO’s
global goal of at least 85 percent. The rate in Tower Hamlets
was 75 percent in 2009. Surey says he’s aware of several drug-
resistant cases “just south of  Canary Wharf .”  Side Effects  Some patients find it difficult to stick with the
antibiotics because of side effects such as nausea, vomiting,
fatigue and in some cases liver complications, says Veronica
White, a respiratory physician and director of the Tower Hamlets
Tuberculosis Service.  “You never know before you start treatment how a person is
going to react,” White says, emphasizing the role of the doctor
and nurses in adjusting the dosage or using other medicines to
make side effects more bearable. “It’s important that the
patient feel supported.”  About 2 billion of the world’s 7 billion people carry the
bacteria in a dormant form, says Drobniewski of the HPA’s
reference laboratory. Most don’t experience symptoms until a
weakening of the immune system rouses the disease, causing
fever, night sweats,  weight loss , shortness of breath, chest
pain and coughing.  Humans have lived for centuries with tuberculosis, which
writers before the early 1900s nicknamed “consumption” because
sufferers wasted away. Researchers have found the bacteria in
the spine of Egyptian mummies.  London Health Programmes, an NHS agency, aims to halve the
number of tuberculosis cases in London in the coming decade. A
proposal to change how patients are cared for is scheduled to be
reviewed by local health system leaders in March, according to
Lorraine Hutchings, a spokeswoman.  The  draft plan  proposes reorganizing some aspects of TB
services. Local health authorities would run campaigns to raise
awareness and standardize procedures to screen new patients and
those at risk. TB clinic hours would be extended to accommodate
patients who work or have chaotic lives. The proposal would also
provide housing funding for those whose homelessness may derail
treatment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  