-- Angie’s List Soars as Sales Top Estimates
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   Y a b l o n
-- 2012-02-23T21:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/angie-s-list-soars-after-review-website-s-sales-exceed-analysts-estimates.html
Angie’s List Inc. (ANGI) , the consumer-
review website with more than a million members, rose after
reporting fourth-quarter revenue that topped analysts’ estimates
as the cost of acquiring customers declined.  Angie’s List advanced 7 percent to $15.47 at the close in
New York, for the biggest one-day jump since Jan. 12. The shares
have advanced 19 percent from their  initial  offering price in
November.  The Indianapolis-based company, which provides reviews of
plumbers, electricians and other service providers, said the
cost of adding subscribers fell from $60 to $51 per customer
during the period, from a year earlier. Total paid memberships
were 1.07 million on Dec. 31, up 78 percent, after the company
spent more on marketing, Angie’s List said in a statement.  “The cost of member acquisition has dropped dramatically,
and especially so in the fourth quarter,” said  Sameet Sinha , an
analyst with B. Riley & Co. in  San Francisco . “They’re seeing
some significant efficiencies there and thus can invest more
marketing dollars into the business now.”  Sinha, who recommends  selling  the stock, said those
efficiencies may “hit a wall” if it reduces advertising
spending going forward, which could affect subscriber growth.  In its first earnings report as a public company, Angie’s
List said yesterday that fourth-quarter revenue increased 70
percent to $27.4 million, topping analysts’ estimates of $25.4
million. The company forecast first-quarter revenue of $29
million to $30 million. Analysts had estimated $28.3 million.  The fourth-quarter loss narrowed from a year earlier to
$5.87 million, or 14 cents a share, from $8.24 million, or 30
cents. Analysts had estimated a loss of 12 cents, the average of
projections in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Yablon in  New York  at 
 ayablon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  