-- Army Private Manning Defers Plea in U.S. WikiLeaks Court Martial
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-02-23T21:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/manning-faces-arraignment-in-wikileaks-case.html
The court martial of Army Private
First Class Bradley Manning came to a halt as the soldier
delayed entering a plea to charges he leaked classified
information published on the WikiLeaks website.  Manning, 24, deferred a plea and a decision on whether to
be tried by a military judge or jury in a hearing at the U.S.
Army’s Fort Meade in  Maryland , according to Colonel Michelle
Roberts, an Army spokeswoman. Today’s session follows a December
hearing and a subsequent finding that the U.S. government had
enough evidence to proceed to a court martial.  The court today set a tentative date of March 15 to March
16 for the next session in the case, Roberts said.  Defense attorneys may recommend that a client defer a plea
for a number of reasons, including gathering more information
about the judge’s sentencing patterns or negotiating an
agreement with the prosecution, said Eugene Fidell, president
emeritus of the National Institute of Military Justice.  “I can’t help but think there is some kind of negotiation
with the government,” Fidell, who teaches at  Yale Law School ,
said in a telephone interview. “This has really been quite
slow-moving.”  The defense of Manning by attorney David Coombs has
included requests for government assessments of the damage the
leaks allegedly did to national security and for depositions of
dozens of witnesses, partly to establish whether the material
was classified.  The 2010 WikiLeaks episode, in which hundreds of thousands
of classified records and State Department cables were made
public, spurred a drive to tighten government security.  Manning, who was stationed in  Iraq  at the time of the
leaks, is charged with violations including aiding the enemy,
which carries a possible life sentence.  “The case is a drama that embodies either great heroism or
great villainy, depending on who you talk to,” Steven Aftergood, director of a government secrecy program at the
Federation of American Scientists in  Washington , said in an
interview. “Up to this point, we’ve been in a preliminary
phase, and the arraignment begins the process in earnest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  