-- Obama Apologizes for Koran Burning as Afghans, Troops Are Killed in Riots
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2012-02-23T20:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/apologies-fail-to-quell-ire-over-koran-burning-at-u-s-base-as-probe-opens.html
President  Barack Obama  apologized
for the burning of Korans on a U.S. air base in Afghanistan as
Afghans and NATO troops died in a third day of riots over the
treatment of the Islamic scripture.  At least five deaths raised the riots’ Afghan death toll to
12, according to provincial officials reached by phone from
Kabul. An Afghan in an army uniform killed two soldiers of the
U.S.-led coalition force in Afghanistan, a statement from its
headquarters said.  Obama wrote to Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  that “I wish
to express my deep regret for the reported incident” in which
personnel at the Bagram air base threw copies of the Koran and
other books into a burning rubbish pile. “I extend to you and
the Afghan people my sincere apologies,” Obama wrote, according
to a statement from Karzai’s office.  “We will take the appropriate steps to avoid any
recurrence, to include holding accountable those responsible,”
Obama said in a letter delivered by U.S. Ambassador  Ryan Crocker .  The apology was part of a broader three-page letter to
Karzai and “was absolutely the right thing to do” given the
sensitivities involved and concern about the safety of U.S.
personnel in the region, White House press secretary  Jay Carney 
told reporters traveling with Obama to an event in  Florida .  Carney cited President  George W. Bush ’s apology to Iraqi
Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki in 2008 after an incident in
which a U.S. soldier shot a copy of the Koran during target
practice in  Iraq .  Taliban Response  Taliban leaders called on Afghans to ignore the apologies
and step up attacks against Americans.  “The Muslim Afghan nation must not be deceived by their
superficial apologies and must continue seeking revenge,” the
Taliban leadership said in a statement e-mailed by  Zabihullah
Mujahid , a spokesman.  An Afghan in an army uniform shot two U.S. soldiers as
hundreds of protesters were besieging their base in the eastern
province of Nangarhar, said Ahmed Zia Abdulzai, the provincial
government spokesman. It wasn’t clear whether the soldiers shot
in that incident were the two NATO troops killed because NATO’s
 International Security Assistance Force , or ISAF, said in a
statement that its policy prevented it from releasing the
nationality of its casualties.  The U.S. embassy continued to restrict movements of its
staff because of the risk of attack by Afghans angered at what
protesters say was a desecration of the Muslim holy book.  Protests or riots were reported across the country. Local
officials confirmed the deaths of two people in Nangarhar, two
in the central province of Uruzgan, and one in the north, in
Baghlan province.  Karzai’s Appeal  Karzai appealed for calm yesterday, asking people to await
the outcome of the investigation. NATO officials have promised
to prosecute perpetrators of the burning “through an open
trial, as soon as possible,” according to an e-mailed statement
from Karzai’s press office today.  A German ISAF officer, Brigadier General Carsten Jacobson,
told reporters yesterday that the force hoped to issue as
statement as early as today on how the incident unfolded.  George
Little , the Pentagon’s press secretary, said today that he
expected results of the inquiry to be made public “within
days” of its completion.  The violence is the second time in a year that riots have
erupted across  Afghanistan  over the perceived desecration of the
Koran by Americans. The burning of a Koran by a pastor in
Florida in March led to four days of riots in which 24 people
died, including two U.S. soldiers shot by an Afghan policeman.  ‘Not Florida’  Evidence so far indicates that no malice was intended in
the Koran-burning at the air base, Doug Wilson, the Pentagon’s
assistant secretary for public affairs, said today.  “We do not believe that this was something where those
involved intended to burn the Koran as a religious document,
Wilson said. ‘‘This was not Florida.’’  The U.S.-led force in Afghanistan and other westerners
often underestimate the reverence of Afghans and other Muslims
for the Koran, according to Sultan Shahin, an Indian analyst who
runs  New Age Islam , a website on Muslim and interfaith affairs.  ISAF’s commander, U.S. Marine General John Allen, has
 ordered training  for all troops in ‘‘the proper handling of
religious materials.’’  Little rejected the idea that the Koran burnings reflected
a pattern of insensitive behavior by U.S. troops.  ‘‘After 10 years, incidents such as this have been
extremely rare,’’ he said. ‘‘No matter how serious this was, no
one should necessarily extrapolate a broader trend about how our
armed forces in Afghanistan are poised to treat religious and
cultural materials.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  