-- Apple to Elect Board by Majority After Investor Pressure
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-02-23T21:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/apple-ceo-cook-says-iphone-maker-s-cash-more-than-what-s-needed-to-operate.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , bowing to pressure from
the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System  and other
shareholders, agreed to start electing its directors by majority
votes rather than a plurality.  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook , speaking today at an
annual investor meeting, also said Apple was continuing “active
discussions” about what to do with its $97.6 billion in cash
and investments, saying the cash hoard was “more than we need
to run a company.”  Investors at today’s meeting passed a nonbinding measure in
favor of the  board-election  change. A similar initiative was
approved at the gathering last year, though it wasn’t adopted by
Apple. The company changed its stance after previously saying
that the change would cause board members to lose their seats in
cases where too few shareholders cast votes.  Some investors also are demanding that Apple return cash to
investors in the form of a dividend or stock buybacks. The money
pile, which includes short- and long-term investments, has risen
more than 63 percent since last year’s annual meeting of
shareholders.  “The board and management team are thinking about this
very deeply,” Cook said.  Dividend History  Apple  last paid  a dividend in 1995, before co-founder  Steve Jobs  returned as CEO and revived the struggling company.
Dividends provide a recurring payment to shareholders, typically
each quarter.  The move would provide a long-term boost to Apple’s stock
price by bringing in a new class of investors who only buy
shares in companies with a dividend, according to Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  In the years since Apple last offered a dividend, the
introduction of the iPod, iPhone and iPad have turned the
company into a profit engine, letting it accumulate a stockpile
of cash and investments that exceeds the market value of
Citigroup Inc. Jobs had long spurned calls to return the money
to investors.  Shares of Cupertino, California-based Apple rose less than
1 percent to $516.39 at the close in  New York . The shares have
climbed 28 percent this year.  Main Liaison  The meeting was the first since the death of Jobs. Even
before Cook’s promotion to the top job in August, Cook served as
Apple’s main liaison to shareholders, a role Jobs avoided.  All of the board members on the slate were elected:
Genentech Inc. veteran executive Art Levinson, who serves as
Apple’s chairman; Intuit Inc. Chairman Bill Campbell; former
U.S. Vice President  Al Gore ; Walt Disney Co. CEO and Chairman
Bob Iger; former head of Northrop Grumman Corp. Ron Sugar; J.
Crew Group Inc. CEO and Chairman Mickey Drexler; Avon Products
Inc. Chairwoman  Andrea Jung ; and Cook.  Investors also voted down a proposal calling for Apple to
release a “conflict of interest report” that outlines how
board members may financially benefit from company decisions.
Another rejected measure would have asked Apple to release a
report on its political contributions and expenditures. The
company opposed those initiatives.  Cook said Facebook Inc., the world’s largest social-
networking company, is more of a “friend” than a competitor.
Apple and Facebook “could do a lot more together,” he said in
response to a question from a shareholder.  Turning the conversation back to cash, an investor asked
whether Apple would consider using its cash to buy  Greece , which
faces a debt crisis.  “We’ve looked into many things,” but not that, Cook said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 