-- Apple’s IPad Trademark Battle Unveils Bank of China as Opponent
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-23T11:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/apple-s-ipad-trademark-battle-reveals-bank-of-china-as-backer-of-proview.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s legal fight for the
iPad name in China doesn’t just pit the world’s most-valuable
company against a failed Hong Kong display maker. Some of the
nation’s biggest banks also are opposing the technology giant.  Apple is appealing a Chinese court ruling that the
trademark belongs to a mainland unit of  Proview International
Holdings Ltd. (334)  At the time Apple says it bought those rights, the
Shenzhen subsidiary was controlled by creditors including  Bank
of China Ltd. (3988)  and  China Minsheng Banking Corp. (1988) , according to
Proview founder Rowell Yang.  Losing its Feb. 29 appeal would open Apple to lawsuits
seeking damages and enable a nationwide ban on iPad sales in the
Cupertino, California-based company’s biggest  market  outside the
U.S. The dispute revolves on whether Proview’s  Taiwan  unit, to
which Apple paid 35,000 British pounds ($55,163) to use the iPad
name in China, had the right to sell it or whether that rested
with the Shenzhen unit and its creditors.  “Right now, the most valuable asset of Proview Group is
the iPad trademark registration in China,” said Eugene Low, a
trademark lawyer at Mayer Brown JSM in Hong Kong. “Assuming the
creditors have control of the affairs of Proview Shenzhen, it
might be in their best interest to get a settlement as quickly
as possible to monetize the Proview assets.”  ‘Not True’  After Proview Technology (Shenzhen) Co. defaulted on loans,
the Shenzhen Intermediate People’s Court in March 2009 appointed
Bank of China and Minsheng to lead a reorganization of the
company, Yang, who remains chairman of the unit, said in a Feb.
21 interview.  “We can’t make any agreements without the creditors,”
Yang said. “We are under the monitoring and control of the
court.” Chinese court documents are not publicly available to
verify the claim.  No one in Shenzhen, a city neighboring  Hong Kong , knew the
Taiwan unit signed away the China trademarks, Yang said.  Apple says that’s not true. Proview “refuses to honor
their agreement with Apple in China,” said Carolyn Wu, a
Beijing-based Apple spokeswoman. She declined to comment further,
as the case is pending before the courts.  Proview’s wholly owned Shenzhen subsidiary obtained the
iPad trademark in China in 2001, according to a Feb. 3, 2010,
regulatory filing with the Hong Kong stock exchange.  The mark was obtained for a desktop terminal with touch-
screen display called the Internet Personal Access Device, or
iPad, that the company developed starting in 1998, Yang said.  Court Rejects  Apple sued Proview’s Shenzhen-based unit in 2010, claiming
ownership of the iPad trademark in  China  on the basis of the
December 2009 contract that the U.S. company says gave it global
rights to the name, including in China. The Shenzhen
Intermediate People’s Court rejected Apple’s claims on Nov. 17.  “If the plaintiff wants to buy trademarks from the
defendant, it should do so according to China’s laws and
regulations by signing contracts with the defendant,” the
judgment said.  The court said the purchase agreement was signed in the
name of Proview’s Taipei-based subsidiary, Proview Electronics
Co., which failed to demonstrate that the transfer was approved
by the Shenzhen unit that owned the mark.  Apple appealed to the Higher People’s Court of Guangdong,
said Ma Dongxiao, a lawyer representing Proview at Grandall Law
Firm in Beijing. Hearings begin Feb. 29.  London Link  Proview “hasn’t yet decided the final claim amount” it
will seek from Apple, the company’s lawyer, Roger Xie, said last
week. A 10 billion-yuan ($1.6 billion) sum cited by China’s
state-run Xinhua News Agency in December was “preliminary,” he
said.  Apple bought Proview’s trademarks through a U.K.-based unit
called IP Application Development Ltd., or IPADL. Haydn Wood,
who signed the agreement with Proview Electronics on behalf of
IPADL, declined to comment on the agreement or lawsuits when
contacted by Bloomberg News.  Sales of iPads reached 32 million worldwide last year,
earning revenue of $20.4 billion. At $480 billion, Apple’s
market capitalization surpasses the $454 billion value of all of
 Mexico ’s listed companies, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Apple has itself to blame for failing to properly secure
rights for the China market, said Ray Mai, the Shanghai-based
lawyer who represented Proview in the 2009 talks with IPADL.  Apple Rush  “At that time, Proview was not in good condition,” said
Mai, whose signature is on the sales agreement. “On one side is
this nearly bankrupt company, on the other is one of the
strongest companies in the world. When we signed, Apple
dispatched a lot of famous lawyers in front of me, very big law
firms.”  Mai was outside counsel for Proview at the time and no
longer represents the company, he said in a Feb. 17 phone
interview. A copy of a business card from 2009 with Mai’s name
on it described him as “director and lawyer” of Proview
Technology (Shenzhen)’s legal department.  Apple was rushing to obtain trademark rights for the iPad
name so it could roll out the product, Yang said. Then-Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  announced the iPad on Jan. 27, 2010,
more than a month after the Proview contract was signed Dec. 23.
Apple didn’t grasp the nature of the relationship between the
Shenzhen trademark holder, its banks and the courts, Yang said.  “The banks controlled Proview Shenzhen from March 2009,”
Yang said. “We needed bank approval for any sale of assets.”  Bank of China  is still a Proview creditor, according to the
Shenzhen-based press officer of the nation’s fourth-largest
lender by market value, who declined to be identified citing
company policy. An official at Minsheng Bank, who also declined
to be identified, confirmed creditors control Proview’s Shenzhen
assets. The banks declined to comment on the Apple case.  Rise, Fall  The Proview Group was founded by Yang in Taiwan in 1989 as
a maker of televisions and computer displays, and went public
eight years later in Hong Kong.  By September 1999, it was among the world’s 10 biggest
makers of computer monitors and planned to reach the top five
“in the near future,” its annual report for that year shows.
Sales expanded 10-fold from HK$1.77 billion ($228 million) in
1997 to HK$17.4 billion in 2008, when the U.S. subprime mortgage
crisis expanded into a global slowdown.  Proview’s sales plunged 74 percent to HK$4.46 billion in
2009, when it lost HK$2.91 billion. As falling sales eroded  cash
flow , Proview units defaulted on payments to suppliers and
creditors, the company said in its annual report that year.  Delisting Move  “The Shenzhen factory, the group’s primary manufacturing
base, could only continue its operation with the assistance of
the municipal government and the Bank of China and other
creditor banks,” it said.  The company last published results in March 2010, for the
six months ended Dec. 31, 2009. It had a loss of HK$755.8
million and a deficit attributable to equity holders of HK$2.37
billion. Bank borrowings stood at HK$1.8 billion.  Proview’s Hong Kong shares have been suspended since Aug. 2,
2010. The Hong Kong stock exchange on Dec. 30 gave Proview a
third and final warning that it would be removed from the bourse
by June 29 if it failed to publish results and demonstrate
sufficient working capital for 12 months.  On Dec. 2, Proview announced it had struck an agreement
with investor Rally Praise Ltd. to restructure the company and
raise capital. No record of a company with that name could be
found using Internet and registry searches.  Export Threat  Meantime, Proview is taking the fight to Apple. The company
filed complaints to more than 40 local branches of the
Administration for Industry and Commerce, according to Proview
lawyer Ma. Court actions have been lodged in  Shanghai , Shenzhen
and Huizhou, he said.  Pudong District Court in Shanghai today rejected Proview’s
application for an injunction against sales of iPads in the city
to allow the Guangdong court to rule on who owns the trademark.
Proview will appeal, Xie said.  Apple’s Wu said she didn’t immediately have information
available on the case.  The decision of the Guangdong Higher People’s Court will
likely be final, said He Fang, an intellectual property lawyer
at Rouse & Co. International in Shanghai. In exceptional cases,
litigants who lose a second decision can refer their cases to
the Supreme People’s Court, the nation’s highest, He said.  Proview has also applied to the Customs Bureau to block
exports as well as imports of iPads, it said last week.  “China’s Customs Bureau has powers not just on imports,
but on exports, too, making it different from other countries,”
He said. “Most of Apple’s iPads are manufactured in China, so
if the Customs Bureau imposes restrictions on exports, then it
becomes a global issue for Apple.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  