-- Target Fourth-Quarter Profit Tops Estimates on Sales Growth
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-02-23T21:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/target-projects-full-year-earnings-that-exceeded-estimates-shares-climb.html
Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest
U.S. discount retailer, posted fourth-quarter earnings that
exceeded some analysts’ estimates, helped by discount card
initiatives and grocery sales.  Net income declined 5.2 percent to $981 million, or $1.45 a
share, from $1.04 billion, or $1.45, a year earlier, the
Minneapolis-based company said today in a statement. Excluding
some items, profit totaled $1.49. Analysts projected $1.39, the
average of  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Gregg Steinhafel  has maintained
sales growth by adding fresh groceries to stores and enticing
shoppers to spend more with company-issued credit and  debit
cards  that offer discounts. Those initiatives have also narrowed
profit margins.  “They have sustainable growth in front of them,”  Matt Arnold , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  Des Peres , Missouri,
said in an interview. He recommends buying the shares.  Gross margin at the company’s retail segment narrowed for
the sixth straight quarter. Fourth-quarter gross margin, the
percentage of sales left after subtracting the cost of goods
sold, shrank 0.3 percentage point to 28.4 percent. Analysts
projected 28.8 percent, the average of 10 estimates.  Target rose 2.9 percent to $54.50 at the close in  New York .
The shares declined 15 percent last year.  Earnings per share for this year, excluding costs related
to its expansion into  Canada , will be $4.55 to $4.75. Jeffrey Klinefelter, an analyst for Piper Jaffray & Co., projected
$4.74.  Second Quarter Sales  Same-store sales, a key measure of a retailer’s growth
because only established stores are counted, may rise about 4
percent this quarter after a gain of 2.2 percent last quarter,
the company said.  The company’s credit card unit that boosted earnings over
the past year became less profitable. Income at the segment
declined 35 percent to $98 million from $151 million a year ago.
Bad debt expense, which had been falling, rose to $87 million
from $83 million. The retailer suspended plans to sell the
division last month, and will start looking for potential
partners later this year.  The percentage of sales being made through its REDCard
rewards program that offers a 5 percent discounts on most
purchases rose to 11 percent from 7.4 percent a year ago.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, posted
fourth-quarter profit on Feb. 21 that trailed estimates as a
focus on low prices narrowed margins. The shares sank the most
in six months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  