-- Arroyo Pleads Not Guilty to Philippine Election Fraud
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2012-02-23T10:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/arroyo-pleads-not-guilty-to-philippine-election-fraud-correct-.html
(Corrects first paragraph to remove reference to anti-
corruption drive and rewrites third paragraph to remove
quotation.)  Former Philippine President  Gloria Arroyo  pleaded not guilty to charges of election fraud, paving
the way for the second trial of one of the country’s top leaders
on corruption allegations within a decade.  A Pasay City court set the pre-trial of Arroyo, 64, for
April 19. Authorities escorted the former leader early today
from a state-run hospital where she was detained while being
treated for a spine ailment.  President  Benigno Aquino  had vowed to bring Arroyo to trial
as part of what he says is an anti-corruption campaign. Arroyo’s
trial will take place in a fair and impartial justice system,
presidential spokesman Edwin Lacierda said in an e-mailed
statement today, as he urged Filipinos to observe the process.  Lawmakers impeached Arroyo appointee and  Supreme Court 
Chief Justice Renato Corona in December after he ruled more than
20 times in Arroyo’s favor, according to court records. Corona
is on trial in the Senate.  ‘Vilification Campaign’  “Despite the continuous and massive vilification campaign
against me and my family, I have always said that I will dispute
all charges in the proper forum,” Arroyo said in a mobile text
message sent by her spokeswoman Elena Bautista-Horn after her
arraignment, in which she waived the reading of the charges.
Arroyo emerged from the courtroom smiling and wearing a neck
brace and posed with court employees for photos.  The Supreme Court, where 12 of 15 judges were named by
Arroyo, had given the ex-president permission to travel overseas
on Nov. 15, even though the government had banned her from
leaving the country. Police arrested Arroyo in a Manila hospital
on Nov. 18 on orders from the trial court, which blocked her
attempt to leave the country to seek medical care.  Prosecuting former presidents is not uncommon in the
 Philippines . Arroyo’s predecessor,  Joseph Estrada , was
ousted in 2001 and later jailed for corruption.  Estrada, convicted of the charge of plunder and sentenced
to  life imprisonment  in September 2007, was freed from six years
of house arrest after Arroyo pardoned him that same year. The
late dictator  Ferdinand Marcos  and his wife Imelda also faced
corruption charges after he was toppled by a street uprising and
his family was forced into exile in 1986. Imelda Marcos has
never been jailed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  