-- Hartford Opts Against Dividend Raise as Paulson Presses Insurer
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   A n d r e a   L u d t k e
-- 2012-02-23T21:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/hartford-opts-against-dividend-raise-as-paulson-presses-insurer-on-capital.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG) , the insurer being pressured by  John Paulson  to split into
two companies, opted against raising its dividend after the
investor said the firm should guard capital.  The quarterly payment remains 10 cents, according to a
statement today from Hartford, which is based in the Connecticut
city of the same name. The Bloomberg Dividend Forecast was for
13 cents a share, down from a projection of 15 cents on Feb. 1.
Paulson said on a Feb. 8 conference call that Hartford Chief
Executive Officer Liam McGee should spin off the property-
casualty unit from  life insurance .  Hartford has said “there are potential benefits to a
separation,” while it also recognized there are challenges to
splitting the firm, such as the allocation of parent-company
debt to the units and the maintenance of  credit ratings .
Hartford could reduce leverage by limiting share buybacks,
selling units or winding down the U.S. variable-annuities
business, Paulson said in a Feb. 14 regulatory filing.  “While there may be small synergies in keeping the
businesses together, the economic value of any synergies is
immaterial relative to the value unlocked by a separation,”
Paulson said in the filing.  McGee has cut jobs and scaled back sales of variable
annuities, the retirement product that contributed to losses
under his predecessor,  Ramani Ayer . McGee, 57, who returned
government rescue funds in 2010, announced a $500 million share
repurchase program last year.  “We’re aggressively managing the levers we control, while
prudently deploying capital to create  shareholder value  in our
businesses and also return capital to shareholders through
dividends and share repurchases,” McGee said at a Dec. 8
investor conference.  The dividend under Ayer was cut to 5 cents a share in 2009
from 53 cents in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  