-- Asia CEOs Look to Europe for Takeovers: Citi
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-02-23T02:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/asia-ceos-look-past-europe-crisis-for-takeovers-citigroup-says.html
Asian chief executive officers are
preparing to accelerate acquisitions in  Europe  to take advantage
of asset prices depressed by the continent’s sovereign debt
crisis, according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)   The number of deals the New York-based bank is working on
involving Asian companies has jumped about 25 percent from a
year ago, driven by clients seeking opportunities in Europe,
Latin America,  Africa  and  Canada , said Colin Banfield,
Citigroup’s head of mergers and acquisitions for the Asia-
Pacific region.  “Europe features prominently on the radar screen of Asia’s
emerging corporate champions, given the current attractive
valuation levels,” Banfield said in an interview. “We’ve been
trying to pair up where there are attractive assets in
relatively weaker economies and to match these businesses up
with Asian buyers.”  Companies on the MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index held a combined
 $50 billion of cash  at the end of last year, the most since
1995, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Acquisitions in
Europe by Asian companies swelled to a four-year high in 2011 as
CEOs pounced on rivals weakened by the Euro-zone crisis.  Citigroup ranked eighth in advising on M&A involving
companies from the Asia Pacific region last year, up from 11th
in 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Excluding  Japan ,
 Australia  and  New Zealand , the bank topped the league table
rankings. It helped Kirin Holdings Co. take over Brazilian
beermaker Schincariol Participacoes e Representacoes in a deal
completed in November.  Valuations Diverge  The prospect of a default by  Greece  has weighed on
valuations in the Euro area, creating an opportunity for cash-
rich Asian companies to buy assets on the cheap. Relative to
their  book value , European stocks sell for about one-third less
than their U.S. counterparts, Bloomberg data show.  Even as valuations diverge, uncertainty around how European
governments manage their finances could deter Asian boards from
making purchases in the region, Banfield said.  “You’re not going to see Asia just being ring-fenced from
what happens in the rest of the world,” he said.  Citigroup advised Shandong Heavy Industry Group on its
acquisition of Ferretti Group, the world’s largest luxury-yacht
builder, a deal announced last month.  China ’s Sany Heavy
Industry Co. used Bank of America Corp. for its takeover of
German concrete-pump maker Putzmeister Holding GmbH.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc.’s $7.3 billion
purchase of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s aviation leasing
unit was this year’s largest Asian acquisition in Europe. The
biggest such deal of 2011 was also struck by a Japanese company,
when Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. agreed to buy closely held Swiss
drugmaker Nycomed for $9.1 billion.  ‘Pull the Trigger’  Citigroup hired Banfield, 46, two years ago from Nomura
Holdings Inc. as head of its Asian mergers advisory unit, a
position that had been vacant for six months.  Asia-to-Europe acquisitions are off to a strong start this
year having reached $14 billion, compared with $7.3 billion for
the same period of 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. For
all of last year, $76 billion of such deals were announced,
according to the data. Asian companies still have ample
“firepower” for takeovers, Banfield said.  “If you just spend long enough to get them ready and
prepared for the opportunity, they would be prepared to pull the
trigger,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  