-- Stocks in U.S. Advance on Jobless-Claims Report as Treasuries Erase Losses
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-23T21:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/asian-stocks-drop-aussie-weakens-on-economic-growth-concerns-oil-falls.html
U.S. stocks gained as reports on
American jobs and housing beat projections, while Treasuries
erased losses after an auction of seven-year notes. Oil rallied
for a sixth straight day, and copper declined.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.4 percent to
1,363.46 at 4 p.m. New York time. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  rallied 0.4 percent to 12,984.69, the highest level
since May 2008. Yields on 10-year U.S. Treasuries dropped one
basis point to 2 percent. Crude added 1.5 percent, copper fell
0.7 percent and gold rallied 0.8 percent.  Applications for U.S. jobless benefits held at a four-year
low, while a Federal Housing Finance Agency index of housing
prices rose 0.7 percent, beating the median economist projection
that called for a 0.1 percent gain. The  S&P 500  has stalled this
week after climbing toward 1,363.61, last year’s peak and the
highest level since June 2008.  “Sometimes when you’re knocking on the door of a
meaningful psychological level in the market you have to knock
hard a few times to gain admittance,”  David Sowerby , a
Bloomfield Hills, Michigan-based portfolio manager at Loomis
Sayles & Co., which oversees more than $155 billion, said in a
phone interview. “We know that it will be anything but a smooth
path. Valuation is compelling. There’s been improvement in the
economy. That provides potential for stocks to move higher.”  Sears, Homebuilders  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  surged 19 percent after announcing
plans to sell 11 store sites and separate some smaller-format
businesses after posting its largest quarterly loss in at least
nine years. KB Home and PulteGroup Inc. added at least 4.3
percent to pace gains in homebuilders. Vivus Inc. added 78
percent after its weight-loss pill Qnexa won the backing of a
U.S. advisory panel.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  slumped 6.5 percent as
the computer maker’s profit forecast missed estimates.  European equities declined. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index lost
0.2 percent as UniCredit SpA and Commerzbank slumped at least
6.2 percent after the European Commission said the region’s
economy will shrink.  Treasuries rose after the U.S. sale of $29 billion in
seven-year notes drew stronger-than-average demand amid concern
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis hasn’t been contained.  U.S. 10-year yields reached a one-week low as the European
Commission said the region’s economy will shrink this year,
dragged down by Italy and  Spain . At the seven-year note sale,
the bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total
bids with the amount of securities offered, was 3.11, compared
with an average of 2.81 for the previous 10 sales.  ‘Good One’  “It looks like a good one,” said  Thomas Roth , senior
Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA
Inc. “Treasuries are what people want to own because they think
it’s the safest thing out there. It’s fear of Europe falling
apart.”  The euro advanced to the strongest level in more than 10
weeks against the dollar as a report showed German business
confidence rose to the highest level in seven months amid
progress taming the region’s debt crisis.  The yen rose against the dollar after the sale of seven-
year Treasury notes. Higher-yielding currencies appreciated as a
measure of volatility among Group of Seven currencies dropped to
the lowest in more than three years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  