-- Late Goals Lift Marseille, Basel to Champions League Soccer Victories
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-02-23T00:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/late-goals-lift-marseille-basel-to-champions-league-soccer-victories.html
Marseille and Basel both scored late
to beat former winners  Inter Milan  and Bayern Munich 1-0 at home
in their Champions League round of 16 openers.  Andre Ayew’s stoppage-time header gave Marseille the
victory over Inter last night in  France , while Valentin Stocker
scored in the 86th minute as Basel beat Bayern in  Switzerland .  “It was a game of few chances but we were the better side
at the end,” Marseille manager Didier Deschamps told UEFA’s
website. “We have a small advantage.”  Inter and Bayern will host the return matches in the two-
game series March 13. The winners advance to the quarterfinals
of European soccer’s elite club competition.  Defending champion Barcelona, AC Milan, Napoli, Zenit St.
Petersburg and Lyon also take leads into their second legs next
month, while record nine-time winner Real Madrid is tied 1-1
with  CSKA Moscow .  Marseille’s last-second victory sent three-time European
champion Inter to its fourth straight loss and extended the
Italian team’s winless run to seven matches in all competitions.  “We now are facing a difficult task in the second leg but
we have enough skill to score twice in Milan,” Inter coach
Claudio Ranieri said. “We can overturn this result.”  Marseille goalkeeper Steve Mandanda pushed Diego Forlan’s
volley over the crossbar in the first half and caught Mauro Zarate’s shot from close range. Marseille had the better of
second-half play with Ayew sending one header over the goal and
a second into the arms of Inter goalkeeper Julio Cesar.  Near Post Header  Cesar then knocked another Ayew shot away in the last of
three added minutes for a corner. Mathieu Valbuena swung the
kick in and Ayew went up at the near post to head it into the
far corner of the net.  “It’s a good result at home because we didn’t concede,”
Ayew told  UEFA ’s website. “Now we must stay focused, but it’s a
clear boost.”  Basel, which last reached the quarterfinals 38 years ago,
secured its second straight upset after beating Manchester
United 2-1 in its final group game in December.  Four-time champion Bayern had 59 percent of the possession
and out-shot the home team 19-8, though failed to beat Yann
Sommer in the Basel goal.  “We’re not in an ideal position ahead of the second leg,”
Bayern coach Jupp Heynckes told UEFA’s website. “The alarm
bells are ringing, though we can still correct this result. It
is certainly possible to beat Basel 2-0 at home.”  Early Chances  Sommer stopped two early shots from Franck Ribery and
Bayern goalkeeper  Manuel Neuer  tipped Marco Streller’s lob over
the goal. Neuer also pushed Aleksandar Dragovic’s header onto
the post and Holger Badstuber cleared the ball off the line.  Basel’s Alexander Frei then hit the crossbar from 10 yards
out and Sommer made a one-handed save of David Alaba’s shot.  The defenses tightened in the second half and the best
chance came as Sommer stopped  Mario Gomez  from close range. The
game appeared headed for a draw when Jacques Zoua carried the
ball across the edge of the area and found Stocker, who fired a
shot from the left between Neuer’s legs.  “We are in a great position,” said Basel coach Heiko
Vogel. “We are capable of scoring away goals and if we do that
in Munich it will be very difficult for Bayern.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  