-- Aussie Gains Versus Yen in Longest Win Stretch Since 2003; Kiwi Advances
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-02-24T19:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/aussie-dollar-set-for-weekly-gain-as-stevens-says-policy-is-about-right-.html
Australia ’s dollar rose for an
eighth straight week against the yen, the longest winning streak
since 2003, as Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens ’s comment
that monetary policy is “about right” reduced speculation
 interest rates  will be cut.  New Zealand’s dollar, called the kiwi, also rallied for an
eighth week versus the yen, its longest run in more than a
decade, as an unexpected jump in U.S. consumer confidence added
to demand for higher-yielding currencies. The Aussie erased
daily gains versus its U.S. counterpart after  Fitch Ratings 
downgraded three of the nation’s four so-called pillar banks.  The Australian dollar has been “very well-supported over
the last couple of weeks,” said Andrew Salter, a strategist at
Australia &  New Zealand  Banking Group Ltd. in Sydney. “The
local interest-rate market removed those expectations for
further policy easing, and that’s been reflected in the
currency.”  The Aussie strengthened 1.7 percent this week to 86.60 yen,
rising 1 percent today and touching 86.74 yen, the highest level
since July 11. Australia’s dollar last posted a weekly loss
against the Japanese currency on Dec. 30. It hasn’t gained for
so long since 16 weeks ended in 2003. The Aussie was little
changed for the week and the day against the U.S. currency at
$1.0712.  New Zealand’s dollar advanced 2.2 percent this week to
67.67 yen, appreciating 1.2 percent today and touching 67.79
yen, the strongest since Aug. 4. Its longest winning streak
before this week ended in 2001. The kiwi rose 0.6 percent this
week to 83.71 U.S. cents. It was little changed today versus the
greenback.  ‘Growth Near Trend’  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index of U.S. stocks gained 0.3
percent today, and the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of stocks in developed
nations advanced 0.6 percent.  “With growth near trend, inflation consistent with the
target, interest rates about average and an outlook suggesting
more of the same, the setting of policy was about right for the
moment,” Stevens, the Australian central-bank chief, said today
in testimony in Sydney to the  House of Representatives  Standing
Committee on Economics.  Stevens and the Reserve Bank board unexpectedly kept
Australia’s benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 4.25 percent on
Feb. 7 after making two quarter-percentage point cuts in the
final months of 2011. Traders expect the RBA to reduce borrowing
costs by 43 basis points, or 0.43 percentage point, over the
next 12 months, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG  index 
based on swaps. That’s down from 104 basis points in predicted
cuts on Feb. 1.  Bank Downgrades  Australia’s currency pared earlier gains versus the dollar
after Fitch reduced the ratings of  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia ,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and  National Australia Bank
Ltd. (NAB)  by one level to AA- from AA. It reaffirmed the AA- rating
of Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  Fitch’s moves follow downgrades by Moody’s Investors
Service in May and Standard & Poor’s in December, and reflect
the lenders’ reliance on offshore funding markets. Australia’s
pillar banks, so named for a law that prevents them buying each
other, derive about 40 percent of their total funding from
wholesale markets.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan  final index  of
U.S. consumer sentiment rose to 75.3 this month from 75 in
January. A Bloomberg News survey called for 73. The gauge
averaged 89 in the five years before the 18-month recession that
ended in June 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  