-- Auto-Loan Rates Falling to Four-Year Low Bolster U.S. Car Sales
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-02-23T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/auto-loan-rates-falling-to-four-year-low-bolster-u-s-car-sales.html
Lenders are charging U.S. car buyers
the lowest  interest rates  in at least four years as fewer
borrowers fall behind on their payments, supporting demand for
new vehicles, according to researcher Experian Automotive.  The average interest rate for a new-vehicle loan fell to
4.52 percent in the fourth quarter,  Costa Mesa , California-based
Experian said today in an e-mailed statement. The rate dropped
from 4.84 percent a year earlier and is the lowest since
Experian began tracking the figure in 2008.  Financial companies are boosting lending in the automotive
industry after U.S. light-vehicle sales climbed to 12.8 million
last year, the second consecutive annual increase of at least 10
percent, according to researcher Autodata Corp. The  Federal
Reserve  in January committed to holding short-term rates near
zero through at least 2014.  “The improved automotive lending market is good news for
consumers in market to buy a vehicle,”  Melinda Zabritski ,
Experian’s director of automotive lending, said in the
statement. “With delinquencies and total dollar volume at risk
down, lenders have been able to adopt more aggressive
strategies.”  The balance of loans to borrowers who fell behind on auto
payments by 30 days declined to $15.1 billion in the fourth
quarter, down 8 percent from a year earlier and about 28 percent
lower than at the end of 2009, according to Experian. The
balance of 60-day delinquent loans decreased to $3.48 billion, a
drop of 14 percent from a year earlier and 39 percent from 2009.  Buyers whose credit is nonprime or worse accounted for 23
percent of the new-vehicle financing market in the fourth
quarter, up from less than 20 percent a year earlier, according
to Experian.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 