-- Tax Cuts Should Create Growth, Not Junk Spending: Amity Shlaes
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-02-23T00:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/tax-cuts-must-create-growth-not-junk-spending-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
Payroll-tax cut equals growth.
 Consumer spending  equals growth. Consumer spending is 70
percent of the economy. All growth is equal.  These are the axioms that motivated lawmakers to
secure an extension of a payroll-tax cut this month. They
felt like heroes for passing and signing a temporary break
allowing citizens to skip Social Security payments.  President  Barack Obama , too, was pleased. He  trumpeted 
the payroll-tax news when he was visiting a  Boeing Co. (BA) 
plant in  Washington . An aim of that trip was to persuade
American companies to do more business in America. In fact,
by even going to Washington, Obama was  highlighting  what
the administration believes is Boeing’s shame: Boeing does
business offshore. But Obama took the time to go off
message and  praise Congress  on the payroll-tax issue.  “It is amazing what happens when Congress focuses on
doing the right thing,” the president said. Heed the
axioms, he was saying. Even if doing so costs $93 billion,
as the most recent extension does.  Axioms and Evidence  But perhaps the axioms are wrong. Maybe payroll-tax
cuts don’t equal growth. Perhaps they don’t matter to
growth. Perhaps other steps generate better growth. Perhaps
the evidence is right there before us, even at Boeing. Look
at the data, then look at what else the administration is
up to this season, and you’ll see the case for new axioms.  The  Tax Foundation , a Washington-based nonprofit group
that focuses on state, federal and international taxes,
 surveyed  the 34 nations in the  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development  for the period from 2000 to
2010. The foundation looked at rates for pension taxes and
growth. It found no relationship. None.  The average OECD payroll tax for pensions and health
was 27.9 percent, whereas the U.S. levy was 16.3 percent.
(The OECD includes  unemployment insurance  in its basic
reckonings of payroll taxes, so the numbers may look
slightly different.) By those traditional axioms, that
means we should be growing faster than other countries.
Instead we grew significantly slower than the OECD average.  Some countries featuring very high or regressive
payroll-tax rates, such as the  Slovak Republic , with taxes
in the mid-40 percent range, grew fast over the decade. The
 Czech Republic  has high payroll taxes and high growth;
 Chile  combined low payroll taxes and high growth. There was
no pattern.  A different picture emerged when the  Tax Foundation 
got to a levy that the administration began to talk about
after the Boeing trip: corporate income-tax rates. The
corporate rates did correlate heavily to increases in gross
domestic product. Tax Foundation author  William McBride 
found that if you cut a corporate  tax rate  by 10 percentage
points, you get a cumulative 11 percentage points of GDP
over 10 years. The seven fastest-growing countries had
below-average corporate-tax rates, whereas the seven
countries with the highest tax rates grew at below-average
rates.  That means the  new administration plan  to lower
corporate rates really is the right thing. “Corporate rate
cuts are good” is a worthy axiom.  Personal income-tax rates also seem to matter,
especially top rates. Countries with heavily progressive
tax structures have slower long-term growth. The  Slovak
Republic  may have a high pension tax, but its personal
income tax is a flat rate of 19 percent, hence the growth.
Low tax rates at the bottom of the schedule, by contrast,
don’t seem to track growth.  Junk Growth  These results -- payroll-tax cut “no,” corporate tax
“yes” and personal income-tax cut “yes” -- are consistent.
The axioms notwithstanding, growth is not equal. There’s
such a thing as junk growth -- GDP increases that are all
about people buying two cars or two phones instead of one.
That growth tends to be sporadic. And it doesn’t tend to
yield productivity gains. Buying a new piece of factory
equipment or new software that helps your company make
twice as many phones or planes yields more enduring growth.  For better quality growth, it is the availability of
capital that matters. So tax changes should be ranked by
how much capital they free. By this measure, payroll taxes
rate a “C” or a “D”: Putting money into consumers’ hands
means they may -- and may is the word -- buy something that
is already invented. By the productivity criterion,
corporate-tax and individual-rate cuts at the top perform
well. The money from tax cuts on top rates for corporations
and individuals tends to flow to new investments, the kind
that allow factories to make more jet planes an hour.  “If lawmakers want to have the biggest impact on
boosting long-term economic growth in the U.S.,” McBride
said, “they should turn their attention to cutting tax
rates on corporate and individual income.” Perhaps soon,
since Japan and  Canada  are both cutting corporate rates,
putting the U.S., which features high corporate taxes, at a
greater disadvantage.  If corporate taxes were consistently lower here,
companies such as Boeing wouldn’t spend so much jetting
around the world playing the tax-arbitrage game that
irritates Obama. One reason the tax status of big companies
like Boeing is so complex is that they receive targeted
breaks for, say, research and development rather than a
simple low basic corporate rate.  The old axioms endure for political convenience.
Keynesianism, their basis, provides window dressing for the
spending and stimulus that please voters. In a non-election
year, the economists who serve the politicians are willing
to acknowledge the limits of rebate checks. In an election
year, they will pooh-pooh as second-rate economics any idea
but spending.  Still, even in 2012, even if it offends, it’s
worthwhile to say it aloud: Ladies and gents, look at the
evidence. And, like President Obama, try out some new
axioms.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)   Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  