-- Maximize Promise of Fracking by Solving Safety Problems: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-23T01:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/maximize-promise-of-fracking-by-solving-safety-problems-view.html
Anything as big and as promising as
shale gas is bound to be complicated. This energy source has
much to  recommend  it. To begin with, the U.S. has  a lot  of it,
enough to meet current natural gas consumption for  35 years .  The increase in hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, the
technique used to tap natural gas from shale, brought down the
fuel’s price by 32 percent last year, to less than $3 per
million Btu. Expanding the practice -- to New York State, for
example, which now has a moratorium on it -- could help lessen
American use of coal and oil to generate electricity and heat.
That would reduce U.S. dependence on Mideast crude and lower
 greenhouse-gas emissions  and acid rain.  Then there are the jobs that fracking has created,
especially in parts of the U.S. hit hard by the economic
slowdown. The number of people who work in the shale gas
industry is expected to rise from 600,000 to 1.6 million by
2035, according to a study by  IHS Global Insight  for America’s
Natural Gas Alliance, a trade group.  Yet, as the increasingly heated debate shows, the public
still has well-founded concerns about the safety of fracking.
None justify the level of anti-fracking rhetoric among some
critics, who seem to think the energy they consume can be
magically conjured without so much as the eyesore of a drilling
platform. But some legitimate  issues  need to be addressed.  These are the main ones:  Earthquake Activity  There is little doubt that the re-injection of fracking
wastewater into wells, one method of disposing of it, has caused
minor earthquakes in  Arkansas ,  Ohio ,  Oklahoma  and Texas. This
sounds worse than it is. The temblors have been well below the
magnitude necessary to cause damage. And it’s not so unusual for
development projects -- dam building, mining, oil drilling -- to
cause seismic activity.  Still, authorities need to ensure that operators offer a
way to deal with fracking waste without causing regular quakes.
The  Environmental Protection Agency  generally regulates
underground fluid injections, but a 2005 loophole exempts those
related to oil or gas production unless they involve diesel,
which is sometimes contained in the mix used to fracture gas
shale.  Congress should remove the loophole so the EPA can rule out
earth-shaking methods of disposing of “flow-back” -- what
returns to the surface after the water and fracking mix have
been injected into shale. Companies may be able to eliminate
tremors by mapping deep-rock formations in advance, then
monitoring seismic activity as they re-inject wastewater,
slowing or stopping if necessary.  Water Pollution  A number of landowners have sued fracking operators for
contaminating water supplies. Some lawsuits complain of fracking
fluid or wastewater sloshing off trucks. Such cases can be
mitigated by giving federal authorities the power to monitor
such leaks. Other suits complain of seepage from poorly encased
wells, which can also be minimized by rigorous standards and
inspections.  The more provocative accusation is that the act of breaking
up subterranean shale to free the natural gas within enables
methane -- its main component -- and contaminants in the
fracking mix to make their way up to aquifers. But shale
deposits and aquifers are generally separated by thousands of
feet of earth. Because aquifers sometimes contain methane
naturally, communities may think fracking has changed water that
was always gassy and was never checked before.  Greenhouse-Gas Emissions  One of natural gas’s virtues is its greenhouse-gas
footprint. Burning it produces only half as much carbon dioxide
as coal, and significantly less than oil. Unfortunately, when
natural gas is extracted from earth, significant quantities of
 methane  leak directly into the atmosphere. And methane is an
exceptionally potent greenhouse gas -- about 25 times as
effective at trapping heat in the atmosphere as carbon dioxide.  Some studies  argue  that this leakage is especially great
during fracking operations, compared with conventional
extraction of natural gas. Methane escapes, for instance, during
flow-back. In July the EPA proposed  rules  requiring that
companies drilling new wells use available equipment to capture
95 percent of methane and make it available for sale.  The EPA estimates that these rules could reduce methane
emissions by about 3.4 million tons a year. That’s the
greenhouse-gas equivalent of 85 million tons of carbon dioxide,
the amount released in a year by 18 average-sized coal-fired
power plants. The agency should complete these rules -- and
extend them to cover existing natural gas wells that are fracked
again in the future.  Air Quality  Neighbors of fracking operations have complained of
headaches, rashes, nausea and respiratory infections. Some
people suspect that such symptoms may stem from breathing air
that has been fouled by fracking -- either by emissions of
methane and other volatile organic compounds from wellheads or
by pollutants evaporating from open-air pits where leftover
drilling water is dumped.  Air measurements near fracking sites in  Colorado  and  Texas 
have turned up above-normal levels of benzene and other
carcinogens. Yet it is unknown whether the air is making people
sick. The long-term national research that could provide the
answer hasn’t been done. It should be, even as fracking
operations continue. Meanwhile, the EPA should push fracking
companies to not only capture emissions at the wellhead but also
handle their wastewater to prevent toxic chemicals from
evaporating.  These studies and remedial measures will entail costs, to
companies and to state and federal regulators. (In proposing to
spend $45 million in the 2013 federal budget on a research and
development program to reduce the health, safety and
environmental risks of fracking, the Obama administration seems
to recognize the need for such expense.) And the effort might
lead to a slowdown in the expansion of fracking.  To ensure that fracking realizes its promise, both the cost
and the delay are worthwhile.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 