-- Bank of Canada Says Drop in House Prices May Cause Consumer Spending Shock
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-02-23T20:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/bank-of-canada-says-home-price-decline-may-cause-consumer-spending-shock-.html
Canadian  consumer spending  is at
risk of a “shock” because of growth in borrowing linked to
rising  home prices , the country’s central bank said.  “There has been a steady rise in Canadian household
indebtedness,” the Bank of Canada said in its Review document,
a collection of academic papers. “Households could therefore
experience a significant shock if house prices were to
reverse,” including “a relatively large impact on
consumption.”  Governor  Mark Carney  is relying on households for more than
half of economic growth this year, after their spending led the
economy out of a recession in 2009. Consumption has been fueled
by the central bank’s 1 percent policy  interest rate  and
commercial banks that are offering some of the lowest  mortgage
rates  in decades.  “It isn’t necessary for everyone to have the most
expensive house possible,” Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told
reporters in Toronto today. “People have to be wise,” he said,
because interest rates “have nowhere to go but up.”  Bank of Montreal cut its  interest rate  on five-year fixed-
rate mortgages to a record low of 2.99 percent in January,
prompting other banks to do the same. The banks have since
announced an end to those offers, and the average posted  five -
year mortgage rate was 5.24 percent this week.  Debt-Income Ratio  The ratio of mortgage debt to disposable income has
increased to almost 100 percent from about 50 percent over the
last 30 years, the central bank report said. That gain has come
with increased home ownership rates,  house prices  that have
risen faster than incomes and  low mortgage rates , the bank said
in the Review. Home prices adjusted for inflation have increased
88 percent since 1980.  “The Canadian housing market has not exhibited the
excesses seen in other countries,” the bank said. Last month it
 forecast  that the ratio of  household debt  will continue to set
records after reaching 153 percent in the third quarter.  “The evidence is that they do remain responsible,”
Richard Goyder, vice president of personal lending at Royal Bank
of Canada, the country’s largest bank by assets, said referring
to consumers. “As the messages have come out about that debt
level beginning to increase to levels that concern the  Bank of
Canada , consumers have responded by being a little more
cautious.”  House-Backed Debt  Families are taking on more debt that is backed by their
houses, with such loans accounting for about half of  consumer
credit  in 2011, up from 11 percent in 1995, the bank said today.
Increased marketing of such loans, their relatively low interest
rates and rising  home prices  have contributed to the increase,
the report said.  The share of home renovation spending financed by debt also
peaked in 2007 at 38 percent, the bank said.  “This suggests that household spending on consumption and
home renovation can become vulnerable to house-price shocks,
since lower house prices would reduce the value of housing
collateral and thus decrease household borrowing,” the report
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  