-- Bank of America to Speed Growth in China After Doubling Profit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-23T00:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/bank-of-america-to-speed-growth-in-china-after-doubling-p.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
biggest U.S. lender, will accelerate expansion in  China 
after doubling profit and boosting its workforce in the world’s
fastest-growing major economy last year.  The company plans to add as many as five branches in China
over the next two to three years, from three outlets in Shanghai,
Beijing and Guangzhou currently, Huang Xiaoguang, president of
Bank of America NA China, said in an interview in Shanghai
yesterday. He will raise growth targets in the unit’s three-year
strategic plan to be presented to top management next week.  “We want to become a top player among China’s foreign
wholesale banks in terms of all metrics,” said Huang, who
joined the  U.S. bank  in October 2010. “We need to grow faster
than our competitors to grab market share and stay ahead of them.
What we achieved last year was significant, but we want to take
it up a notch.”  The expansion in China contrasts with Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ’s sale of $33 billion in assets and
30,000 announced job cuts elsewhere in the world amid stagnant
revenue and rising costs from defective mortgages. China may
become Bank of America’s largest revenue and profit  contributor 
in Asia Pacific in two years, according to Huang, who declined
to say where the business ranks now.  The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender, which lured
bankers from competitors such as HSBC Holdings Plc and Citigroup
Inc. last year to build its China business, will focus on
multinational firms, financial institutions and Chinese
enterprises seeking overseas expansion, Huang said. It now
employs about 500 people in the country, he said.  Foreign Peers  To make up for slower growth at home, foreign banks
including  HSBC (5) , Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are also
boosting investments in China, which is now the world’s third-
largest banking market, behind the U.S. and  Japan . Their profit
growth in China averaged 26 percent over the past decade,
according to the  China Banking Regulatory Commission .  HSBC,  Europe ’s biggest bank by market value, said last week
it seeks to expand in China by either increasing its branch
network almost eightfold to 800 or taking a bigger stake in
partner Bank of Communications Co. beyond a 20 percent limit as
regulations are eased.  Citigroup said on Feb. 6 it won approval to become the
second foreign bank to issue credit cards in the world’s most
populous nation.  DBS Group Holdings Ltd.,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest bank,
said this month it plans to boost its workforce in China by
about 25 percent this year to 2,000 after profit doubled in 2011.  Opened Industry  China opened its banking industry to overseas companies in
December 2006, sparking competition among foreign lenders for
the nation’s corporate and household savings, which reached
$12.7 trillion in January. Combined assets at foreign banks
exceeded 1 trillion yuan ($159 billion) by the end of October,
almost double from five years ago.  Bank of America is looking at all options including a
securities venture with a local partner to further tap into the
nation’s investment banking market, Huang said.  To bolster capital, the U.S. lender sold 10.4 billion
shares of  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  in private transactions
in November for a profit of about $1.8 billion, leaving it with
a 1 percent stake. The divestiture didn’t affect its business
relationship with Construction Bank, he said.  Before joining Bank of America, Huang was President of
Citibank China. He holds a bachelor’s degree from the Shanghai
Institute and an MBA from the Netherlands School of Business.  Bank of America  shares  have climbed 42 percent this year,
the best performance in the 30-company  Dow Jones Industrial
Average , on optimism that the firm will benefit as the  U.S.
economy  improves.  --Luo Jun. With assistance from Allen Wan and Stephanie Wong in
Shanghai. Editors: Russell Ward, James Gunsalus  To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in  Shanghai  at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  