-- Barrick’s Regent Says Gold Miners Losing Capital to ETFs
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-02-23T16:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/barrick-s-regent-says-gold-miners-losing-capital-to-etfs.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and  Goldcorp
Inc. (G) , the world’s largest producers of the metal, are poised to
outperform bullion after gold-mining companies fell to their
cheapest in at least a decade, executives said.  Gold producers are heading for an “inflection point”
triggering a rally, Barrick Chief Executive Officer Aaron Regent
said in an interview. They have been punished as investors
decided the shares should no longer trade as a proxy for
physical gold, he said.  The growing popularity of gold-backed exchange traded
funds, or ETFs, which include the $73.6 billion SPDR Gold Trust,
probably have taken away some of the capital that previously was
invested in companies such as Toronto-based Barrick, Regent
said. Investors have shunned gold producers, choosing instead to
hold physical metal and ETFs after gold prices advanced in 11
successive years and touched a record in September.  The  NYSE Arca Gold BUGS Index (HUI) , which includes Barrick and
16 of its competitors, has advanced 46 percent in the past five
years while spot gold traded in  London  has more than doubled.
The index trades at about 17 times earnings, compared with an
average of 65 over the past 10 years. The ratio fell to a decade
low of 15 on Jan. 20.  “There will be a point where the multiples just converge
with every other company,” Regent said Feb. 16 at Bloomberg’s
office in Toronto. “Then you will start to see potentially
increased leverage in the share price versus a gold price
move.”  ‘Investors Puzzled’  Holdings (.GLDTONS)  of physical gold via ETFs have more than tripled
in the last five years to 2,390.5 metric tons, an amount valued
at about $137 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
While such funds seek to track the price of gold, shareholders
of gold producers may suffer the effects of mining accidents,
cost overruns or asset writedowns.  Gold ETFs have “been a huge hoover of capital and
competition for the gold companies,” Peter Miller, BMO Capital
Markets’ head of  equity capital markets  in  Canada , said in a
Feb. 17 telephone interview. “It’s easy just to park yourself
with an ETF versus taking on the capex creep and the operational
risk of some of these development plays.”  Paulson & Co., the $23 billion hedge fund founded by  John Paulson , said in its year-end letter that “investors remain
puzzled” by gold stocks’ underperformance relative to gold. One
likely explanation is concern that gold prices may decline, said
Paulson, which is bullish on the metal.  Currency-Devaluation Play  Quantitative easing in the U.S. and other countries will
lead to inflation, spurring more demand for gold as a hedge, the
fund said in the letter, which was obtained by Bloomberg News.
New York-based Paulson invests in the  SPDR Gold Trust (GLD)  as well as
mining companies. The fund owned 12 percent of  South Africa ’s
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  as of May 30 and 8.3 percent of
Vancouver-based  NovaGold Resources Inc. (NG)  at Dec. 31, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gold for immediate delivery gained 0.5 percent to $1,784.88
an ounce by 4:31 p.m. in London. It’s up 14 percent this year
and reached a record $1,921.15 on Sept. 6.  While declining to give a specific estimate, Regent said he
expects gold prices will surpass last year’s record.  “If fiat currencies continue to be devalued and gold just
holds its value, on a relative basis it’s going to go up,” he
said.  Rising Costs  Another reason for producers’ underperformance is that
they’re valued by analysts and investors who assume a long-term
gold price of about $1,300 an ounce, he said. Gold will average
$1,798 in 2012 and $1,975 in 2013, according to the average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s quite a significant gap between how the world’s
traders see the gold price and how equity analysts, with their
conservative forecasts, are looking at it,” Tye Burt, CEO of
 Kinross Gold Corp. (K) , Canada’s third-largest producer, said in a
Feb. 15 interview.  While investors are concerned that rising production costs
in the industry will squeeze profit margins, gold-mining
equities will “ultimately outperform, given the leverage in
gold producers relative to the gold price,” Burt said.  Barrick, Kinross and Canada’s Goldcorp all forecast  mining
costs  will increase in 2012 as labor, raw-material and equipment
expenses keep rising. Another factor boosting costs is
producers’ extraction of lower-grade ore that wouldn’t have been
profitable when gold was cheaper, Regent said.  Dividend Increases  Gold producers’ valuations will be helped by higher
dividend yields, said Sean Boyd, CEO of Toronto-based Agnico-
Eagle Mines Ltd.  “We really need to attract a broader range of investors,”
Boyd said in a Feb. 16 interview. “I think the industry can
capture those investors if it shows discipline around  capital
spending  and paying a bigger dividend yield.”  Agnico and Kinross said Feb. 15 they will increase their
payouts to investors. Barrick, Goldcorp and AngloGold have also
announced dividend increases in the past year.  Newmont Mining
Corp. (NEM) , the second-biggest gold miner by sales, said yesterday
it’s more than doubling its quarterly dividend, 10 months after
announcing it would link payments to the gold price.  Such payouts are becoming increasingly important for gold
miners, Donald Coxe, a Bank of Montreal strategy adviser, said
in a Feb. 21 interview.  Premium Eroded  “While they’re waiting for the market to recognize the
intrinsic value of these wonderful corporations, why don’t you
pay them some money?” he said.  Yamana Gold Inc. (YRI) , Canada’s fourth-largest miner by market
value, said yesterday it will raise quarterly dividend payments
10 percent. The company will target further increases, CEO Peter Marrone said.  “The trend of increasing dividends, in my view, is as
important as paying a dividend,” Marrone said in a telephone
interview.  Still, even if gold producers outperform the metal, they
may never fully recapture their old valuations, said  David Christensen , CEO of ASA Ltd. in  San Mateo ,  California , which
manages $600 million.  “The ‘traditional’ premium has probably flown the coup,”
Christensen said by e-mail. “There are just too many
alternatives to buying gold shares today, such as ETF products,
that have eroded the premium multiples.”  Cash Flow  Barrick said Feb. 16 its fourth-quarter net income was
little changed at $959 million. Sales advanced 26 percent to
$3.79 billion, outpacing its so-called total cash costs, which
rose 15 percent to $505 an ounce. Gold, which has gained for 11
straight years, averaged $1,687 an ounce in the fourth-quarter
in  New York , 23 percent more than a year earlier.  Goldcorp, the world’s second-largest producer by market
value, has seen its  cash flow  more than double in the last three
years, CEO Chuck Jeannes said in a Feb. 15 interview. The shares
have risen 23 percent in the same period.  “That I don’t think is a sustainable trend,” Jeannes
said. “At some point we become so inexpensive on a cash flow
per share multiple that it makes no sense for buyers not to
acquire the stock.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  