-- Barton Biggs Buys Italian Lenders
-- B y   A n d r e w   T h e e n   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-02-23T14:50:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/barton-biggs-buying-italian-lenders-as-bets-on-stocks-rise-at-traxis-fund.html
Financial companies  in Italy fell so
far that they were too inexpensive to pass up, according to
 Barton Biggs , the hedge-fund manager who said he purchased
shares in the European nation.  Biggs said today that he bought a basket of Italian stocks
three or four weeks ago weighted “heavily” toward banks.
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  Unicredit SpA (UCG) , the two biggest Italian
banks by market value, have fallen to price-earnings ratios of
7.3 and 6, respectively, compared with the valuation of 14.3 for
the MSCI World Index.  “The more we studied Italy, the more we felt that not only
were Italian companies cheap, but the new government actually
had a chance of making some real progress,” Biggs said today
during an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop”
with Betty Liu today. “Something gets that cheap, we’re willing
to take a shot at it.”  In December, Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  pushed
through 20 billion euros in austerity measures. The European
Central Bank loaned banks unlimited funds for three years,
driving down Italian bond yields in a sign of increased
confidence in the country’s ability to repay its debt.  Biggs, the founder of the $1.4 billion hedge-fund Traxis,
said today that his net-long position in stocks is about 75
percent, up from 65 percent a month ago. The  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB) , the
benchmark measure of Italian equities, has rallied 8 percent
this year after retreating 25 percent in 2011.  Italy “has a debt problem, but it’s a sovereign-debt
problem where the sovereign debt is owned by Italians,” Biggs
said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Theen in New York at 
 atheen@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  