-- Mattel, River Rights, Philip Morris, Goldman in Court News
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-02-23T12:45:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/blair-s-wife-cherie-sues-news-corp-convicted-hacker.html
Mattel Inc. (MAT)  has won dismissal of an
antitrust lawsuit by MGA Entertainment Inc., the toymaker that
sought $1 billion in damages alleging Mattel violated antitrust
laws in a dispute over Bratz dolls.  U.S. District Court Judge David Carter in Santa Ana,
California, on Tuesday dismissed MGA’s complaint. The judge had
thrown out the case in October, saying MGA’s allegations should
have been raised in previous litigation, and allowed the closely
held company to file an amended complaint. This time, he didn’t
grant leave to refile.  “MGA’s first amended complaint and opposition all but asks
this court to reconsider its prior order dismissing the original
complaint,” Carter said in his ruling.  A jury in April rejected Mattel’s claims that MGA had
stolen the idea for its Bratz dolls and agreed with MGA that El
Segundo, California-based Mattel stole MGA’s trade secrets when
its employees got into the company’s showrooms at toy fairs by
using phony business cards.  In August, Carter ordered Mattel to pay MGA $225 million in
punitive damages, attorney fees and costs. That ruling brought
the total award in the trial over the Bratz doll’s origins to
$310 million. MGA filed its antitrust lawsuit in February of
last year after the jury trial had already begun.  MGA Chief Executive Officer  Isaac Larian  said the  Van Nuys ,
California-based company will appeal.  “The judge dismissed on technicality and wants guidance
from the court of appeal,” Larian said in an e-mailed
statement. “Mattel’s illegal and anticompetitive activities
continue worldwide and we will pursue Mattel accordingly until
they stop their monopolistic behavior.”  Alan Hilowitz, a Mattel spokesman, said the company was
pleased with the decision.  The case is MGA Entertainment v. Mattel, 11-01063, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana.)  Trials/Appeals  Power Companies Win U.S. High Court Clash Over River Rights  The U.S. Supreme Court sided with power and mining
companies against states and environmentalists in a clash over
the rights to rivers explored two centuries ago by Lewis and
Clark.  The justices, in an opinion written by Justice Anthony
Kennedy, unanimously overturned a ruling that would have
required a unit of  PPL Corp. (PPK)  to pay more than $50 million in
rent to Montana for the use of riverbeds under ten of the energy
company’s dams.  The ruling puts new limits on state claims to ownership of
the rivers within their borders, modifying legal rules that date
back to the American Revolution. The court said states don’t own
major waterfalls and other river segments that weren’t navigable
at the time of statehood.  For companies with facilities on rivers, the decision lifts
a legal cloud. Companies had said a ruling favoring Montana
might have let other western states make similar rent demands.
Environmental groups had said a victory for PPL in the case
would weaken the ability of states to protect fisheries, river
ecosystems and recreation areas.  A Montana state trial court ordered the company to pay $40
million in past rent, plus an unspecified amount for rent
starting in 2008. PPL Montana in 2010 recorded a pretax charge
of $56 million to cover estimated payments through the first
quarter of 2010. The company has said that its total accrued
loss from the case as of Sept. 30, 2011, was $84 million.  The Montana Supreme Court had said the state owns the
riverbeds and is entitled to rent payments. The company said the
riverbeds are owned either by private parties or the federal
government.  “The highest court in the land has affirmed PPL Montana’s
long-held position that non-navigable stretches of riverbed
lands are not owned by the state,” said Robert L. Grey, PPL’s
general counsel, in a statement.  Montana Attorney General Steve Bullock said the state would
try to press ahead with the case at the lower court level. The
high court ruling left open that possibility.  PPL was represented in the case by  Paul Clement , the lead
lawyer for 26 states challenging President Barack Obama’s
health-care law.  The case is PPL Montana v. Montana, 10-218, U.S. Supreme
Court (Washington).  Philip Morris Wins Reversal of Florida ‘Engle’ Verdict  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s  Philip Morris  USA won reversal of a $2
million Florida jury award in a wrongful-death case filed by the
widower of a smoker who died of lung cancer.  The trial court erred in denying Philip Morris’s request to
bar the claim because the lawsuit was filed too late, the
Florida District Court of Appeal in West Palm Beach said in a
 ruling  yesterday.  The lawsuit was filed in December 2007 by the estate of
Shirley Barbanell, who died of lung cancer in April 1996 at the
age of 73. Evidence demonstrated at a trial that Barbanell was
aware before May 1990 that cigarette smoking had caused serious
problems with her health, the appeals panel wrote.  “Although the decedent was not diagnosed with cancer until
1996, the critical event is not when an illness was actually
diagnosed by a physician but when the disease or condition first
manifested itself,” the appeals panel said.  The Florida Supreme Court in 2006 threw out a $145 billion
punitive-damage verdict against the industry and ended a class
action filed on behalf of the state’s smokers. The ruling, which
permitted smokers in the class to sue individually, is known as
the “Engle” decision, after  Howard Engle , the lead plaintiff
in the case.  The Barbanell case is the first “Engle” claim to be
overturned by an appeals court, Philip Morris said in a
statement. The jury had awarded damages of $5.34 million,
holding Barbanell about 64 percent responsible, which reduced
the damages to $2 million, according to the statement.  The ruling isn’t final and is subject to a request for a
rehearing.  The case is Philip Morris USA Inc. v. Barbanell, 4D09-3987,
Fourth District Court of Appeal of the State of Florida (West
Palm Beach).  Stanford Fraud Trial Resumes Following Illness Interruption  R. Allen Stanford’s criminal fraud trial was again halted
after a partial day of testimony when a judge decided the
financier was too ill to continue.  After an early finish on Tuesday, the trial resumed
yesterday in federal court in Houston. U.S. District Judge David
Hittner adjourned proceedings this afternoon and sent the jury
home about two and a half hours early. The trial is in its fifth
week.  “The defendant is clearly not feeling well,” Hittner told
lawyers. The jurors are to return today.  Stanford, 61, is fighting charges that he swindled
investors out of more than $7 billion through what prosecutors
claim was a Ponzi scheme built on allegedly bogus certificates
of deposit at his Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.
He has been incarcerated as a flight risk since being indicted
in June 2009.  This week, jurors are hearing from expert witnesses
testifying on Stanford’s behalf.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  SAC’s Cohen Hid $5.5 Million From Ex-Wife, Lawyer Argues  Steven Cohen, the billionaire founder of SAC Capital
Advisors LP, hid $5.5 million from his ex-wife during their 1990
divorce, her lawyer argued before a federal appeals panel in a
bid to reinstate her lawsuit.  Howard Foster, a Chicago-based lawyer for  Patricia Cohen ,
said Steven Cohen didn’t include the money, which Foster said
Steven received as part of a settlement of a real-estate
dispute, on his 1989 financial statement.  “The financial statement was wrong and deceptive,” Foster
yesterday told the panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Manhattan. Martin Klotz, a lawyer for Steven Cohen at Willkie,
Farr & Gallagher in  New York , denied his client hid money in his
argument before the three-judge panel.  In March, U.S. District Richard Holwell in New York
dismissed Patricia Cohen’s suit, ruling she took too long to
bring the case, which was filed in 2009. The judge said Cohen
made similar claims in a 1991 lawsuit in which she accused her
ex-husband of hiding assets and misrepresenting the value of his
investments.  The case is Cohen v. Cohen, 11-1390, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit (Manhattan), and 09-cv-10230, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  State Can’t Force Pharmacies to Sell Contraceptives  Washington state can’t compel pharmacies to sell emergency
contraceptives when such an action violates religious beliefs of
the pharmacists, a federal judge ruled yesterday.  U.S. District Judge Ronald Leighton said that regulations
by the Washington State Board of Pharmacy requiring pharmacies
to sell prescribed medicines or face the possible loss of a
license are unconstitutional, according to the opinion filed
yesterday in Tacoma.  The case is Stormans Inc. v. Selecky, 07-05374, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Washington (Tacoma).  For more, click here.  Occupy London Protesters Can’t Appeal Eviction, Judge Rules  Occupy London  protesters camped near the steps of St.
Paul’s cathedral were denied permission to appeal a court ruling
that they can be evicted.  The U.K. Court of Appeal refused the petition by
representatives of the movement in an  opinion issued yesterday .
The  City of London Corporation , which manages the financial
district, sued to evict protesters claiming they were blocking a
public passageway, impeding tourists and forcing the continued
closing of nearby Paternoster Square, where the  London  Stock
Exchange is located.  “It is a travesty that today’s decision will limit voices
of dissent within the City of London,” Tammy Samede, the Occupy
London representative named in the appeal, said in an e-mailed
statement.  A lower court judge ruled in January that the eviction
could proceed following a week-long trial in which some
ministers testified in support of the camp’s right to protest
global economic inequality.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Goldman Sachs Wins Judge’s Approval of Overtime Suit Accord  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  won a judge’s approval of a
lawsuit settlement that will require the bank to pay $993,841 to
a group of computer technicians who said they weren’t paid
overtime for their work as contractors.  U.S. District Judge William H. Pauley in Manhattan
yesterday entered a judgment approving the settlement, citing
reasons he stated at a Feb. 10 court conference.  In the lawsuit, the technicians said they deserved overtime
pay for working more than 40 hours a week. Work weeks topped 70
hours, and more than 100 employees in New York and New Jersey
were underpaid as a result, they said in a complaint filed in
May 2010.  David Wells, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to comment
on the settlement.  Lawyers for the plaintiffs will be paid $262,787 plus
expenses, which will come from the settlement fund, Pauley said.  The case is Bardouille v. Goldman Sachs & Co., 10-cv-4285,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  SEC Seeks Testimony of Former IKB Employee in Tourre Suit  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission wants to
question a former employee of  IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG (IKB)  in
its lawsuit against Goldman Sachs Group Inc. trader Fabrice
Tourre, court records show.  The SEC yesterday asked a federal judge in New York to
issue a so-called letter of request that would allow the agency
to take testimony from Jorg Zimmerman, a resident of Germany.  The agency sued Tourre in 2010, saying he defrauded
investors by not disclosing that hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped
pick the underlying securities for a collateralized debt
obligation, known as Abacus, and planned to bet against them.  After reaching a $550 million settlement with New York-
based Goldman Sachs, the SEC filed a new claim against Tourre,
saying he gave the company “substantial assistance” as it
misled investors. The SEC said IKB wouldn’t have invested if it
had known of Paulson’s involvement in the portfolio selection.  “Tourre personally spoke with IKB employee Jorg Zimmerman
to solicit interest in ABACUS 2007-ACI securities,” the SEC
said in its filing.  The agency said its lawyers want to ask Zimmerman about
IKB’s decision to invest, the representations that Tourre and
Goldman Sachs made to the bank, “and the importance of the
facts omitted by Tourre” and Goldman Sachs.  Zimmerman isn’t a defendant in the case. Tourre has denied
wrongdoing in the lawsuit.  Pamela Rogers Chepiga, a lawyer for Tourre, said in an
interview that yesterday’s request is a corrected version of an
SEC filing from several weeks ago, and that she has also asked
the German court to order testimony.  Tourre has said in court that the $150 million investment
was actually made by two Jersey-based firms in the Channel
Islands, and not by Dusseldorf, Germany-based IKB.  “We have to finish up discovery in Germany,” Chepiga
said. Discovery is the gathering and sharing of evidence before
a trial.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones in Manhattan last year
refused to dismiss the case while narrowing some of the claims
against Tourre. She said the SEC had met its burden for pursuing
a claim that Tourre violated a law designed to prevent
fraudulent sales of securities and should stand trial.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Citigroup ‘Defrauded’ Fannie, Freddie, Whistle-Blower Says  Citigroup Inc. (C) , which last week admitted breaking Federal
Housing Administration rules and paid a fine, also violated
regulations for home loans sold to  Fannie Mae (FNM)  and  Freddie Mac (FRE) ,
according to a whistle-blower’s complaint.  The bank “defrauded, falsified information or misled
federal government entities” by selling or securing insurance
for mortgages with defects such as improper appraisals and not
reporting them as required, Sherry Hunt, a Citigroup quality-
assurance vice president, said in her complaint, which was
unsealed yesterday. It was filed under the False Claims Act in
federal court in Manhattan in August.  Hunt’s charges formed the backbone of the U.S. Justice
Department’s case against Citigroup, which paid $158.3 million
in a Feb. 15 settlement and admitted that it certified loans for
FHA insurance that didn’t qualify. Her complaint provides
additional details into the bank’s broken mortgage-processing
system. In last week’s agreement, the government reserved the
right to pursue criminal and other charges related to mortgages
originated or underwritten by Citigroup and not insured by the
FHA.  “We take our quality-assurance processes seriously and
have pro-actively undertaken process improvements to ensure that
they are as strong as possible,”  Sean Kevelighan , a Citigroup
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Andrew Wilson, a spokesman for Washington-based Fannie Mae,
and Chad Wandler, a spokesman for McLean, Virginia-based Freddie
Mac, declined to comment.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Hunt v. Citigroup Inc., 11-
cv-005473, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  BP, Anadarko Liable for Violating Pollution Law, Judge Says  BP Plc (BP\)  and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  are liable for Clean
Water Act violations, a judge ruled, allowing the U.S. to seek
fines of as much as $1,100 per barrel of oil spilled in the Gulf
of Mexico in 2010.  BP (BP/)  and Anadarko, partners in the doomed Macondo Well
project, are responsible by law for polluting the water because
they owned the well, U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New
Orleans said yesterday. The ruling allows the government to seek
fines without having to prove the issue of liability at trial.  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Switzerland-based owner and operator
of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that exploded, can’t be
held liable for Clean Water Act violations yet, Barbier wrote in
yesterday’s ruling. The issue has to be determined at trial.  BP and Anadarko are liable for civil penalties under the
law “because they are both owners of the offshore facility from
which oil discharged,” Barbier said.  “There are disputed facts as to whether Transocean meets”
the definition of an operator of the offshore facility, Barbier
said. “Accordingly the court cannot resolve this issue on
summary judgment.”  The Justice Department asked Barbier to find the companies
violated the Clean Water Act on the basis of so-called strict
liability because they were operators of the doomed project.
Strict liability is a legal term for automatic responsibility.  Barbier, who’s overseeing much of the  spill litigation , has
scheduled a nonjury trial for Feb. 27 to determine liability and
apportion fault for the disaster. He will also determine whether
any defendants were grossly negligent, which would leave the
companies subject to enhanced fines under the Clean Water Act.  “This decision states clearly that BP is the responsible
party and reaffirms the long-standing legal, regulatory and
economic framework that has been employed by parties in the
offshore oil and gas industry for decades,” Lou Colasuonno, a
Transocean spokesman, said in an e-mail.  John Christiansen , Anadarko’s spokesman, said he hadn’t
seen the judge’s ruling and couldn’t immediately comment.  “Long before this motion and its resolution today, BP had
committed to paying all legitimate claims and helping economic
and environmental restoration efforts in the Gulf Coast,” Daren
Beaudo, a spokesman for London-based BP, said in an e-mail
yesterday.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a Justice Department spokesman, said
“We’re reviewing the ruling.”  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  Mets Owners Seek to End $386 Million Madoff Suit Without Trial  The owners of the New York Mets are set to ask a judge
today to end a $386 million lawsuit by the Bernard Madoff
brokerage trustee without a trial, saying he hasn’t proved they
ignored the fraud because it benefited their business.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff threw out most of Madoff
trustee  Irving Picard ’s $1 billion lawsuit against the baseball
team’s owners last year, saying he could pursue only $386
million at a trial set to start March 19 in Manhattan federal
court. To get most of the money, Rakoff said Picard must prove
the defendants, including Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz, were
willfully blind to Madoff’s crimes, which Picard has said cost
investors about $20 billion in principal.  Wilpon and Katz contend they should be allowed to keep the
$386 million. Picard isn’t entitled to a trial because he hasn’t
proved what Rakoff said he was supposed to, the Mets owners said
in a court filing this month.  Today, Picard will ask Rakoff to let him claim $83 million
before the trial, leaving a jury to decide the rest of the suit.
To get that amount, which the Mets owners received from Madoff’s
Ponzi scheme in the two years before his 2008 arrest, Rakoff
said Picard need only prove that Wilpon and Katz took the money
without giving equal value in return.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Wynn, Okada Hearing in Las Vegas Postponed to March 8  Lawyers for  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  and Kazuo Okada, the director
whose 20 percent stake in the casino operator was redeemed by
Wynn, won’t be in court today for a hearing on Okada’s request
for documents.  The hearing was postponed until March 8 at the request of
the lawyers, Mary Ann Price, a spokeswoman for the Nevada state
court in Las Vegas, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
Price couldn’t immediately say which side asked for the delay.  Clark County, Nevada, District Court Judge Elizabeth
Gonzalez on Feb. 9 declined to rule on Okada’s request for a
court order that, as a director, he was entitled to inspect the
company’s books and records. The judge had ordered lawyers for
Wynn and Okada to return to court so she could decide whether
Okada’s request was “reasonable.”  Okada, a billionaire who through his Tokyo-based  Universal
Entertainment Corp. (6425)  held the largest single stake in Wynn, sued
last month, claiming the company hadn’t provided information he
requested about a HK$1 billion ($135 million) pledge to the
University of Macau, the use of $30 million he invested in 2002,
and an amended stockholders agreement.  Las Vegas-based Wynn, which is run by  Stephen Wynn , on Feb.
19 said it redeemed Okada’s 24 million shares for $1.9 billion
and asked him to resign as director, saying he was
“unsuitable.” An investigation found that Okada appeared to
have paid $110,000 to gaming regulators in the Philippines in
violation of U.S. anti-corruption laws, Wynn said.  In a separate lawsuit filed Feb. 19, Wynn alleges that
Okada is developing two casinos and three hotels in Manila and
that he seeks to lure “high-limit, VIP gamblers” from  China  in
direct competition with Wynn’s casino in Macau. Construction on
the Manila Bay casino resort started Jan. 26, Wynn said in its
complaint.  Universal said in a Feb. 19 statement that Wynn’s
redemption of the shares because of the Philippines project was
“outrageous.” The company said it will take all legal steps
necessary to protect its investment.  The case is Okada v. Wynn Resorts, A-12-654522, Clark
County, Nevada, District Court (Las Vegas.)  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  SEC Sues China-based Executives Over Theft of Company Assets  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued two China-
based executives, accusing them of defrauding investors by
selling stakes in a coal business that they had turned into an
empty shell company.  Puda Coal Inc. (PUDA)  Chairman Ming Zhao and Liping Zhu, who was
chief executive officer before stepping down last year, stole
and sold the firm’s sole revenue-producing asset, a China-based
coal mining company, the SEC said in a statement yesterday. Zhao
secretly transferred Puda’s controlling interest to himself and
then sold a portion to a fund controlled by  Citic Group (CITIC) , China’s
largest state-owned investment firm, the SEC said.  The transactions weren’t approved by Puda Coal’s board or
shareholders and weren’t disclosed in public filings, according
to the SEC. During two Puda Coal offerings in 2010, the Citic
fund was separately selling interests in the mining subsidiary
to Chinese investors while Zhao and Zhu were telling U.S.
investors Puda Coal owned a 90 percent stake, the agency said.  “The massive fraud perpetrated by Zhao and Zhu wiped out
hundreds of millions of dollars in shareholder value and was
compounded by their brazen obstruction,” George Canellos, head
of the SEC’s regional office in New York, said in a statement.
According to the SEC, Zhao’s counsel provided investigators a
forged letter related to the mining assets after the agency
began the probe.  Crocker Coulson, an outside investor relations
representative for Puda, declined to comment.  Tony Blair’s Wife Sues News Corp., Convicted Phone Hacker  Former U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair’s wife Cherie sued
 News Corp. (NWSA)  and a former private investigator for its now-defunct
News of the World tabloid for hacking into her phone.  The lawsuit, filed Feb. 21 against the company’s U.K. unit
and Glenn Mulcaire, comes as News Corp. prepares for the first
civil trial over the scandal, scheduled to start Feb. 27 in
London. The company has already settled phone-hacking claims by
Blair’s former press chief, Alastair Campbell, and former Deputy
Prime Minister John Prescott.  News Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch shuttered the News of
the World in July in a bid to contain public anger after it was
revealed the tabloid hacked into the voice mails of a murdered
schoolgirl. While most of the current lawsuits have settled, the
company may face claims by more than 800 possible victims
identified by police.  “If it is true that a former prime minister’s family have
been targeted by Rupert Murdoch’s hackers, then it is clearly a
significant moment in the scandal,” Tom Watson, a Labour Party
lawmaker who is on a parliamentary committee investigating the
scandal, said in an e-mail.  A message left with the press office of News Corp.’s U.K.
unit, News International, wasn’t immediately returned.
Mulcaire’s lawyer, Sarah Webb, didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment. Mulcaire was jailed in 2007 for hacking phones
of members of Britain’s royal family.  “We have issued a claim on behalf of Cherie Blair in
relation to the unlawful interception of her voice mails,” her
lawyer, Graham Atkins of Atkins Thomson Solicitors in London,
said in an e-mailed statement. “I will not be commenting any
further at this time.” Full details of the suit aren’t yet
available.  The case is Cherie Blair v. Newsgroup Newspapers, High
Court of Justice Chancery Division, HC12C00657.  For more, click here.  Sloan-Kettering Chief Faces Suit by University of Pennsylvania  The head of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center was
accused by the University of Pennsylvania in a lawsuit of
breaching his fiduciary duty to the school by using research he
helped develop there to start his own company.  The complaint against Dr. Craig Thompson, filed yesterday
in Manhattan federal court, follows a Dec. 13 complaint against
him by the Leonard and Madlyn Abramson Family Cancer Research
Institute at the Philadelphia-based school. The complaint also
names the company Thompson formed, Agios Pharmaceuticals Inc.  Thompson studied cancer metabolism while he was scientific
director of the institute, which was created by a $100 million
donation from the Abramson family foundation to the university,
according to the suits against him. Without telling the
university, Thompson formed Agios to exploit the research, the
complaints say.  Thompson’s lawyer, Allan J. Arffa, and John Evans, a
spokesman for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Agios, didn’t
immediately return calls for comment on yesterday’s breach-of-
contract and breach-of-duty lawsuit.  The suit doesn’t name Memorial Sloan-Kettering.  The cases are Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania v.
Thompson, 12-cv-1330, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan), and Leonard and Madlyn Abramson Family
Cancer Research Institute v. Thompson, 11-09108, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 