-- BofA Squeezes Mortgage Pipeline to Fannie
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-02-24T13:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/bofa-halts-routing-new-mortgages-to-fannie-mae.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
biggest U.S. lender by assets, is stopping the sale of new home
loans to government-owned  Fannie Mae  as a dispute over who
should bear the costs for defective mortgages escalates.  The bank is cutting off Fannie Mae from loans starting this
month, except for modifications and some refinancings, because
of the U.S.-controlled company’s stance on repurchases, Bank of
America said yesterday in a  filing . The firms are in talks to
end the disagreement, the bank said.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  is seeking to
limit additional costs from faulty loans after the 2008 takeover
of Countrywide Financial Corp. helped saddle the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based bank with about $42 billion in expenses. In
November, the lender said it refused to cooperate with what it
deemed a new Fannie Mae policy that required loan repurchases if
an insurer drops coverage.  “Bank of America may be saying, ‘It’s too risky to do
business with Fannie’ because of what it considers to be a
stricter loan-recourse policy,” said David Felt, a former
deputy general counsel at the  Federal Housing Finance Agency ,
Fannie Mae’s regulator. “I don’t know if Fannie really cares;
it’s the largest mortgage purchaser in the world, and if Bank of
America turns to  Freddie Mac  instead, that’s like a different
subsidiary of the same company.”  Bank of America will sell new loans to Freddie Mac, the
other U.S.-controlled mortgage-finance firm, and Ginnie Mae, a
company that packages loans backed by the  Federal Housing
Administration , said a person with direct knowledge of the
lender’s plans. The lender also may keep some loans on the
balance sheet, said the person, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the plans aren’t public.  ‘Housing-Market Recovery’  “This decision will not affect the credit available to our
customers,”  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for the bank, said in
an e-mailed statement. “We will rely on other sources of
liquidity to continue to ensure we are lending to our customers
and supporting the housing-market recovery.”  Bank of America scaled back as it grappled with defective
mortgages after selling about $1.1 trillion in loans to Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac from 2004 to 2008.  The lender accounted for about 21 percent of loans sold to
Fannie Mae in 2009, making Bank of America the biggest seller of
mortgages to the U.S.-controlled firm at the time, according to
Inside Mortgage Finance. Last year, it accounted for 11 percent
of Fannie Mae’s volume and that figure dwindled to 3 percent in
the fourth quarter.  ‘Dampening the Impact’  Bank of America may be seeking to gain leverage over Fannie
Mae in disputes over who will absorb the costs of failed
mortgages that were improperly originated, said Bert Ely, an
independent bank consultant based in Alexandria, Virginia.
Outstanding claims from bond buyers and insurers jumped 22
percent in three months to a record $14.3 billion as of Dec. 31,
the lender said last month.  “With respect to Fannie, there’s a disagreement as to
exactly what should come back, and to the extent that there’s a
disagreement,” there may be an increase in the value of
disputed loans, Chief Financial Officer Bruce R. Thompson said
during a January conference call. “At this point, we believe our
position is correct and we’ve accrued for what we owe.”  The bank’s decision may cause prices of Freddie Mac-
guaranteed securities to weaken compared with Fannie Mae debt by
shifting the supply of new bonds, Mahesh Swaminathan, a Credit
Suisse Group AG analyst, wrote in a note yesterday. The bank’s
origination volumes recently have been “low, dampening the
impact,” he said.  Mortgage Insurance  Andrew Wilson , a spokesman for Washington-based Fannie Mae,
said the company had no comment on the bank’s decision.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac buy mortgages from lenders and
package them into securities for sale to investors. Both firms
were seized by the government in 2008 to stave off collapse, and
the FHFA is pressing banks for refunds on bad loans to cut the
cost of the taxpayer bailout.  Bank of America told investors in August that Fannie Mae’s
policy on insurance rejections may result in higher repurchase
costs. Fannie Mae typically requires a borrower to buy  mortgage
insurance  if the loan exceeds 80 percent of the home’s value.
The coverage guards against losses when borrowers default and
foreclosure fails to recoup costs.  Mortgage guarantors, including MGIC Investment Corp.,
Radian Group Inc. and American International Group Inc.’s United
Guaranty, have been voiding policies for errors including
inflated appraisals or borrower incomes.  Stock Rebounds  Bank of America’s stock fell last year amid investor
concern that the mounting cost of faulty home lending would
crimp profit. The firm, after posting the worst performance in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  last year, leads the 30-company
benchmark in 2012 with a 44 percent gain through yesterday.  Moynihan, 52, is cleaning up fallout inherited from
Countrywide, which was acquired by his predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis . Lax underwriting in the years before the takeover led to
soaring defaults on mortgages and claims from investors who lost
money after buying or insuring Countrywide loans.  Separately, Bank of America will freeze pension-plan
benefits starting June 30 and continue funding defined
contribution plans such as 401(k)s, according to the filing. The
firm said it will increase contributions to some of the plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  