-- BP Spill Victims Face Economic Fallout Two Years Later
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r . ,   L a u r e l   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-02-23T17:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/bp-oil-spill-haunts-gulf-business-owners-almost-two-years-after-disaster.html
Louisiana oysterman Terrance M.
Shelley was struggling to keep up with demand by New Orleans
restaurants before  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Macondo well blew out in April 2010,
crippling the processing plant he opened six months earlier.  “Demand was exploding” until then, said Shelley, 60,
whose family has 18,000 acres of oyster reefs.  The state closed the reefs because of contamination from
the  Gulf of Mexico  spill. Shelley’s business dried up as
customers and wholesalers shunned Gulf seafood.  Shelley is among thousands of coastal residents, business
people and property owners who will be affected by a trial
starting Feb. 27 in New Orleans federal court to determine who
must compensate spill victims. The spill spewed more than 4.1
million barrels of crude over 87 days into the Gulf, whose $3
billion fishing industry provides one-third of all seafood
consumed in the U.S., the plaintiffs said in court papers.  At the peak of the disaster, in June 2010, 40 percent of
Gulf waters were closed to commercial and recreational fishing,
according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration , or NOAA.  Gulf Coast seafood restaurants took the brunt of the
disruption, which cut supply chains and chased away customers
afraid of contamination. The blow fell hardest on  Louisiana ,
much of which a panel of judges said in 2010 was closest to the
“geographic and psychological center of gravity” of the spill.  Oyster Market ‘Destroyed’  “They destroyed the  labor force ,” Shelley said in a Feb.
12 interview, referring to BP and other companies involved in
the spill. “They destroyed the quality of the oysters, and they
destroyed the market for Louisiana oysters.”  With his year-round work force down to 14 from a pre-spill
35 and operating only two days a week, Shelley estimated his
losses may reach $20 million by 2017, the year his family’s
oyster leases are projected to recover fully.  BP, as the well’s owner, is legally responsible for the
damages under the law, which it acknowledged in court papers.
The London-based company has sued its contractors claiming they
share the blame and should share the costs.  The primary contractors include  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , owner of
the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that exploded;  Halliburton
Co. (HAL) , which provided well-completion services; and  Cameron
International Corp. (CAM) , supplier of the rig’s blowout-prevention
equipment.  Tom Mueller, a spokesman for BP, said in an e-mail that the
energy company has paid more than $8 billion to individuals,
businesses and governments and spent $14 billion on “the
operational response” to the spill.  Shoreline Cleanup  “Of the 635 miles of shoreline that required active clean
up after the spill, only a few miles remain to be cleaned,” he
said. “We acknowledged our role in the accident, responded to
the spill, and committed to pay all legitimate claims.”  “The court has already affirmed that BP is responsible for
the economic damages caused by the spill, including all of the
compensation that is owed to individuals,”  Brian Kennedy , a
Transocean spokesman, said in an e-mail. A spokeswoman for
Cameron International who refused to identify herself, declined
to comment. Beverly Stafford, a spokeswoman for Houston-based
Halliburton, declined to comment.  Darren Chifici, co-owner of two Deanie’s Seafood
restaurants in the  New Orleans  area, said his costs for some
species have begun to level off after jumping sharply
immediately after the spill.  Peeled Shrimp  Prices for peeled Louisiana shrimp shot up 50 percent and
are still rising, he said, with the local delicacy remaining
“in very short supply.”  “The smaller shrimp are basically nonexistent,” Chifici
said. “The only thing I can attribute it to is the stock has
been killed off, possibly by the  oil spill .”  Coastal fisheries have been battered by hurricanes and
spring floods, and the oil spill is among the suspected causes
for the shortfall of shrimp, said Ewell Smith, head of
Louisiana’s seafood marketing board, a quasi-state agency whose
members are appointed by the governor.  “The Alaska herring industry took a hit after the  Exxon (XOM) 
Valdez accident,” Smith said of that 1989 oil spill. “Alaska
shrimp is just starting to come back.”  Shrimpers and consumers alike will get a better idea of the
future of Louisiana shrimp when the season reopens this spring,
he said. Demand is down for fresh oysters to make Thanksgiving
Day stuffing, Chifici added.  “I don’t sell nearly the amount of gallons of oysters that
I used to,” he said.  “No Way”  Geoff Morrell, a BP spokesman, asserted in an e-mail that
shrimp “prices and supply continue to fall within historic
ranges.”  “No way,” said Harlon Pearce, chairman of the Louisiana
Seafood Promotion & Marketing Board, in response to Morrell’s
comment. Pearce, appointed by the governor, said he has been 
in the seafood retail business for 40 years. “Our fisherman 
are getting higher prices than they have gotten historically 
because of short supply since the spill,” he said today in an 
interview.  In some cases, Louisiana shrimpers have to go almost to the
Texas state line to catch shrimp that have historically been
caught in the fishing community near the  Mississippi  River
Delta, Pearce said.  “The volumes are down and the prices are definitely up”
since the spill, he said. “Prices for peeled shrimp are 50
percent higher than what they were pre-spill and they are still
climbing because of lack of supply.”  He said once the shrimping season opens in April and May,
“hopefully we will see prices start to come down.”  Oyster Beds  Louisiana oyster beds were damaged by oil pollution and a
diversion of fresh water aimed at pushing oil out of marshlands,
Christine Patrick, a spokeswoman for NOAA, said yesterday in a
phone interview.  About 40 percent of federal waters in the  Gulf of Mexico 
were closed to fishing in July 2010, at the height of the spill,
said Patrick, whose agency oversees fishing in waters from three
to 200 miles offshore. The Gulf is now entirely open, she said.  “The commercial fishing industry is recovering,” BP’s
Mueller said.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  said last month that
a study conducted by the agency, along with BP, the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency and other federal regulators,
found the spill hadn’t impaired the safety of the gulf’s
seafood. Researchers found oil pollutants “below the levels
which would raise a health concern,”  Michael Taylor , FDA deputy
commission, said in a report on the agency’s website.  Tourism  Tourism is the largest non-governmental sector of the Gulf
Coast economy in Mississippi, where “significant portions” of
the state’s 62-mile beachfront were closed for months in 2010 as
the oil washed ashore, according to a Mississippi State
University study.  Some resorts, hotels and casinos saw business plummet
because of canceled conventions and beach vacations.  The tourists were partly replaced by cleanup workers,
insurance adjusters, engineers and others responding to the
disaster, according to casino attorney Michael F. Cavanaugh of
Biloxi, Mississippi. He said that 4,000 to 6,000 relief workers
helped cushion the blow.  A tourism industry study of the spill’s impact on the
beaches of the  Florida  Panhandle reported “striking”
cancellations among hotels, condos and seasonal rental homes
immediately after the accident.  Rebounding Industry  The industry is rebounding, according to Jon Ervin, a
spokesman for Visit South Walton, a tourism council authorized
by Walton County to represent 15 beach neighborhoods with rental
properties and tourist attractions in northwest Florida.  Sales are 50 percent higher than in comparable months last
year, he said, crediting $30 million in marketing money BP
provided for Panhandle tourism.  Mueller, the BP spokesman, said the company “has committed
$179 million to the Gulf States for tourism promotion and
another $82 million for seafood testing and marketing.”  The New Orleans  Convention & Visitors Bureau  received $5
million of $15 million in tourism-marketing money BP gave
Louisiana to counteract negative publicity from the spill,
according to Kelly Schulz, a bureau spokeswoman.  The city advertised the fact the spill was 100 miles from
its popular French Quarter. New Orleans tourism in 2010 had its
best year since  Hurricane Katrina  devastated the area in 2005,
Schultz said.  Marketing Counterpunch  The marketing counterpunch helped attract 8.3 million
travelers in the latter half of 2010, Schulz said, helping to
produce an estimated economic benefit of $5.3 billion for the
city that year.  In December, BP started a nationwide  TV campaign  designed
to lure vacationers back to Gulf tourist destinations. They show
clean beaches and people in the water.  That image rankles Cathy Norman, manager of 35,000 acres of
beachfront and marshlands near Port Fourchon, Louisiana, she
said. Norman is battling BP in court over the restoration of
property marred first by oil and then by efforts to contain it.  BP rutted nine miles of fragile shoreline with earth-moving
equipment and altered erosion patterns with sandbag dams and
sheet-metal pilings intended to keep oil out of the marshes,
according to papers Norman filed in court. The coastal ecosystem
is both a marine-life nursery and critical physical barrier
protecting Louisiana’s “underbelly” from hurricane storm
surges, according to court papers.  Oil-Soaked Sand  BP removed hundreds of thousands of cubic yards of oil-
soaked sand from the property and never replaced it, hastening
erosion that may weaken Louisiana’s storm defenses, Norman said.  BP has stopped cleanup work on parts of the tract, which is
held in trust for New Orleans and a variety of charitable
causes, she said in court filings. Giant “tarballs” and  oil
deposits  more than 100 feet long still wash ashore, she said.  Tropical Storm Lee in September uncovered buried oil
deposits more than 18 inches thick, according to Norman’s
filing, which the company hasn’t answered.  Norman said at one point she chased away a video-production
unit BP brought to her property to film beach cleanup crews that
the company sent just for the day.  “I wish I knew the figure they spent on those ads,”
Norman said in an interview. “I imagine that would satisfy
quite a few claims.” she said.  BP is “manipulating the system and the media, and doing
what they can to declare this thing over,” she said.  BP’s Mueller declined to comment on Norman’s statements.  Death Claims  Some Transocean rig workers and their families haven’t yet
settled injury and death claims resulting from the Deepwater
Horizon explosion.  BP’s “make it right” campaign ads also offend Buddy
Trahan, he said in an interview. Trahan, a Transocean regional
supervisor who was visiting the rig on an executive tour at the
time of the blowout, barely survived the blast, he said.  “I see those BP billboards everywhere I go,” Trahan said.  No one from BP has contacted him about the accident and he
doubts they will, said Trahan. His employer kept paying his
salary and apologized for his shattered knee and severe burns,
he said.  Trahan sued BP in September 2010. The company hasn’t filed
an answer after the case was put on hold. The lawsuit was folded
into the litigation before U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in
next week’s trial. On Feb. 21 he asked that the case be sent to
a state court for speedier processing.  “They saw me bleeding nearly to death, right in front of
their eyes,” Trahan said in an interview, referring to two BP
executives he met at the event and who evacuated the rig in the
lifeboat with him.  No Attempt  “I’d like to see them again, look them in the eye and ask
where are their hearts,” Trahan said. “It’s been nearly two
years and they’ve made no attempt to help me. How can I forgive
that?”  The amount of damage payments to individuals won’t be part
of next week’s trial. Barbier’s rulings and allocation of blame
for the disaster will determine who must answer to the victims.  He ruled yesterday that BP and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ,
which owned 25 percent of the Macondo well, are liable for  Clean
Water Act  violations, allowing the U.S. to seek fines of as much
as $1,100 per barrel of oil spilled.  BP and The Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko are responsible
by law for polluting the water because they owned the well, the
judge said. The ruling allows the government to seek fines
without having to prove the issue of liability at trial.  Clean Water Act  Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean can’t be held liable
for Clean Water Act violations yet, Barbier wrote in the ruling.
The issue must be determined at trial, he said.  “With businesses that were harmed by the spill, the people
who are just out money -- they can be made whole,” said Lance
Lubel, Trahan’s lawyer. “With the injury and death cases, money
may be all there is to make it right, but it is a poor
substitute because those people will never be put back together
again.”  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 2:10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans
at   allenmct@gmail.com ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  