-- BP Joins Petrobras Blocks on Bets Area Mirrors Africa
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-02-23T18:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/bp-takes-stakes-in-two-petrobras-oil-blocks-off-brazil-coast-1-.html
BP Plc (BP/) ,  Europe ’s second-largest oil
company by market value, will take a stake in two blocks off
Brazil’s northeastern coast as producers bet the area may hold
similar reserves to those found in Western Africa.  BP received authorization to take 40 percent in the BM-BAR-
3 and BM-BAR-5 blocks in the Barreirinhas basin from  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the Brazilian oil regulator said on its website.
The agency, known as ANP, didn’t disclose terms of the deal.  Oil companies are betting that an area known as the
equatorial margin off the coasts of northeastern Brazil, Guyana,
Suriname and French Guiana hold similar reserves to those found
on the opposite side of the Atlantic.  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  is among
companies that announced finds off  Sierra Leone  this month.  “It’s one of the hottest trends in the business at the
moment,” Bob Fryklund, vice president of energy consulting and
research firm IHS CERA Upstream Research, said in a telephone
interview from  Rio de Janeiro . “People are marching up and down
the coasts to figure out where those fan-shaped deposits are.”  BP plans to increase oil production in Brazil after paying
$3.2 billion to buy nine exploration licenses from  Devon Energy
Corp. (DVN)  last year. BP received approval from the ANP in January to
acquire a 40 percent stake from Petrobras in the BM-CE-1 block
in the Ceara basin, also in deep waters off northeastern  Brazil .  Petrobras, as the state-controlled producer is known, is
selling assets in Brazil and abroad to help finance $224 billion
of spending, the largest investment plan in the oil industry.  Farm In  In these types of transactions, known as farm in, the buyer
usually agrees to pay for a portion of previous exploration
expenses and part of upcoming drilling costs, Fryklund said. He
estimates BP agreed to pay about $100 million to Petrobras.  A spokeswoman at the ANP, who can’t be named under agency
policy, declined to comment further on the deal. A press
official at BP in Rio de Janeiro did not respond to an e-mail
seeking comment and could not be reached by telephone. Petrobras
declined to comment.  BP, Statoil ASA, Ophir Energy Plc and Soco International
Plc are among explorers seeking to profit from as many as 75
billion barrels of untapped oil off Western African countries
including the Republic of Congo, Namibia and Gabon.  Ghana Exports  Ghana, which started exporting oil in December 2010,
expects to boost crude output more than fivefold in the next
five years, the country’s Deputy Finance Minister Fifi Kwetey
said Feb. 7.  BP fell 0.3 percent to close at 495.35 pence in  London .
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)  is Europe’s largest oil company by market
value. Petrobras rose 9 centavos to 23.98 reais as of 3:56 p.m.
in Sao Paulo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  