-- Brazil Neutral Interest Rate is 5.5%, Central Bank Survey of Analysts Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-02-23T21:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/brazil-neutral-interest-rate-is-5-5-central-bank-survey-of-analysts-says.html
Brazil ’s interest rates have fallen
to levels that combined with near-record low unemployment risk
stoking inflation in  Latin America ’s biggest economy, according
to a central bank survey.  The so-called “neutral” rate of interest needed to keep
the economy on a sustainable growth path with stable inflation
is 5.5 percent, according to the median estimate in the survey
published today. That is higher than the Brazil’s current
inflation-adjusted interest rate of 4.3 percent.  “For the central bank, the neutral interest is lower than
5.5 percent,” said  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito
Santo Investment Bank. “This means we’re going to continue to
see a discrepancy between inflation estimates by the market, and
those of the central bank.”  The central bank said last month there is a high chance it
will cut the benchmark  interest rate  to less than 10 percent
this year, from the current 10.5 percent. Since August, the
policy makers have cut the Selic rate four times, reduced taxes
and pledged to boost public investments to ensure growth of 4.5
percent this year.  The real neutral interest rate was 6.75 percent in November
2010, according to the median forecast in a previous central
bank survey. Brazil has the highest real interest rate in the
Group of 20 Nations.  The survey also found that the so-called NAIRU, or non-
accelerating inflation rate of unemployment, is 6.5 percent,
higher than the average of 5.9 percent over the twelve months
through January. The central bank did not say how many analysts
took part in the survey.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini said in Mumbai
this month that Brazil has room to continue cutting its
benchmark rate without stoking inflation. Tombini has repeatedly
pledged to slow inflation to the 4.5 percent mid-point of its
target range this year.  Inflation slowed to 6.22 percent in January, from 6.5
percent. Analysts expect consumer prices to rise 5.24 percent
this year, and 5.02 percent next year, according to the median
forecast in a Feb. 17 bank survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  