-- Brazil January Current Account Gap Widens to Record on Trade
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-02-23T16:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/brazil-s-current-account-gap-widened-to-record-in-january-on-rally-in-real.html
Brazil ’s  current account  deficit in
January widened to a record as a pick-up in economic growth drew
in imports.  The shortfall in the  current account , the broadest measure
of trade in goods and services, rose to $7.1 billion from $6
billion in December, the central bank said in a report
distributed today in Brasilia. The median estimate of 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a deficit of $7 billion.  The real has appreciated more than any major currency this
year, making imported goods cheaper and undermining the
international competitiveness of Brazilian exporters. Brazil’s
 Finance Ministry  said Feb. 17 that the government is ready to
take new measures to guarantee a competitive  exchange rate .  The current account gap “‘can be mostly explained by the
trade deficit,” said Rafael Bistafa, economist at Rosenberg &
Associates Inc., in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . “In
terms of GDP the deficit is still not a problem, there’s a lot
of incoming capital, portfolio investment.”  The real erased earlier gains and fell 0.2 percent to
1.7094 per  U.S. dollar  at 1:08 a.m. New York time.  Brazil’s currency has strengthened 9.3 percent against the
dollar this year, the most of 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Foreign Investment  Foreign direct investment fell to $5.4 billion in January
from $6.6 billion the month before, the central bank said. The
figure was higher than the $4.6 billion median forecast of eight
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The central bank expects a current account gap of $2
billion in February, and foreign direct investment of $3.2
billion, Tulio Maciel, the bank’s director of economic policy,
told reporters in Brasilia. The deficit in the 12 months through
January was equivalent to 2.17 percent of gross domestic
product, up from 2.12 percent in December.  Brazil posted a trade deficit of $1.3 billion in January,
the widest in more than 13 years, as a result of strong domestic
demand, Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a strategist at Royal Bank of
 Scotland , said in a phone interview from  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Recent data show Latin America’s biggest economy recovering
from its contraction in the third quarter of last year. Retail
sales rose 6.7 percent in December from a year earlier, higher
than the 6 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
analysts, while unemployment fell to a record low of 4.7 percent
before rising to 5.5 percent in January, still the lowest ever
for that month.  Dollar Inflows  Brazil had dollar inflows amounting to $6.5 billion in the
Feb. 1-17 period, consisting of $2.4 billion of trade flows and
$4.1 billion for financial operations.  The current account gap “underlines the fragility” of
Brazil’s economy that could lead to the depreciation of the
currency,  Michael Shaoul , chairman of New York-based Marketfield
Asset Management, wrote in a note to clients today.  “One of the clear dangers facing the Brazilian economy is
that FDI decreases rapidly while the current account remains in
substantial deficit, which could be expected to put substantial
pressure on the Brazilian real and local financial assets,”
Shaoul wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 