-- Brazil Created More Jobs Than Analysts Forecast in January
-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-02-23T14:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/brazil-created-more-jobs-than-analysts-forecast-in-january-1-.html
Brazil ’s economy created more  jobs 
than analysts expected in January, adding to evidence economic
growth rebounded after slowing in the third quarter.  Latin America ’s biggest economy generated 118,895 jobs last
month, the Labor Department said today in a report. The median
estimate of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for 100,000
extra jobs. A year earlier the economy generated 152,091 jobs.  Since August, President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has
lowered borrowing costs, cut taxes on goods and investments and
pledged to boost public works to ensure 4.5 percent economic
growth this year. The central bank said last month there is a
“high probability” the benchmark  interest rate  will be reduced
to less than 10 percent from 10.50 percent this year without
jeopardizing the goal of bringing  inflation  back to the midpoint
of its target range.  The jobs figure “shows the economy remains strong,”
 Newton Rosa , chief economist at SulAmerica Investimentos, said
in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo . “The labor market
continues to be one of the biggest risks for the central bank’s
inflation outlook.”  The yield on interest rate future contracts maturing in
January 2014, the most traded in Sao Paulo today, rose six basis
points to 9.68 percent at 12:08 p.m. local time.  Slowest Growth  Brazil’s  economic activity index , a proxy for gross
domestic product, rose 2.7 percent in 2011, the central bank
said last week. Should GDP show a similar reading, it would be
the slowest growth in eight years, apart from 2009 when the
economy contracted in the wake of the global financial crisis
sparked by the 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Inflation will slow to 4.5 percent this year from 6.22
percent in January, Carlos Hamilton, the central bank’s economic
policy director said Feb. 10. The bank targets inflation of 4.5
percent plus or minus two percentage points.  Unemployment (BZUETOTN)  fell to a record low 4.7 percent in December
before rising to 5.5 percent in January, the national statistics
agency said Feb. 17. Still, joblessness remained at a record low
for January, signaling the economy is near full employment.  The government-registered job creation number is a balance
of posts created minus job eliminated. Registered jobs, so-
called formal work, assure employees a range of benefits such as
 unemployment insurance , bonuses and retirement payments by the
government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 