-- Brent Rises to 9-Month High as German Business Confidence Beats Forecasts
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-02-23T14:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/brent-rises-to-9-month-high-as-german-business-confidence-beats-forecasts.html
Brent crude  rose to its highest
price in more than nine months in London after  German business
confidence  surpassed forecasts, reflecting optimism that steps
to resolve  Europe ’s debt crisis will be successful.  Brent futures advanced as much as 1.3 percent to their
strongest since May 3. The Munich-based Ifo institute’s business
climate index climbed for a fourth month to its highest level
since July. U.S. initial jobless claims held at a four-year low
last week, adding to evidence the world’s biggest economy is
recovering. Crude in New York rose as much as 0.5 percent to its
highest since May 4.  “With European policymakers now on a clearer path to
protect global markets from any potential spillover from a
disorderly Greek default scenario, downside risks from a
complete macroeconomic meltdown are receding fast,” said Amrita Sen, an analyst at Barclays Plc in  London .  Brent oil for April settlement rose as much as $1.60 to
$124.50 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London
and was at $124.32 at 1:58 p.m. local time. The European
benchmark contract’s  premium  to New York-traded West Texas
Intermediate widened to $17.67 a barrel from $16.62 yesterday.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , crude for April
delivery was at $106.65, up 37 cents, after rising as much as 52
cents to $106.80. New York futures have risen 3.3 percent this
week on speculation that tensions with  Iran  over its nuclear
program will threaten supplies. Prices have gained 8.7 percent
in the past year.  Economic Signals  The Ifo institute’s German business climate index, based on
a survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 109.6 from 108.3.
Economists had predicted a reading of 108.8, according to the
median of 38 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Applications for jobless benefits in the U.S. were
unchanged in the week ended Feb. 18 at 351,000, the fewest since
March 2008, Labor Department figures showed today. The median
projection in a Bloomberg News survey called for 355,000 claims.  “We saw a sharp decline in the U.S. jobless claim
s last week, showing there is a strong improvement in the U.S.
employment conditions,” Myrto Sokou, an analyst at Sucden
Financial Ltd. in London, said by e-mail. “Today’s data were
fairly in line with expectations, verifying the optimistic
employment picture.”  Iran Tensions  Prices advanced yesterday after officials from the
 International Atomic Energy Agency  were denied access to an
Iranian military base. The U.S. and  Israel  haven’t ruled out air
strikes against Iran’s nuclear facilities, escalating tensions
in a region that’s home to 54 percent of global oil reserves.  Iran’s refusal to allow access to sites where Western
intelligence agencies have reported suspected nuclear weapons
work is “another demonstration of Iran’s refusal to abide by
its international obligations,” White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said yesterday.  Turkey’s sole refining company said today it won’t be able
to use Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS, the bank that handles Iranian
crude purchases, to pay for oil imports from the Gulf state once
U.S. sanctions come into force.  Tupras Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri AS, which has a contract
to buy 9 million metric tons of crude a year from Iran, can’t
use the bank after the end of June without a waiver from the
U.S., a Tupras official said today.  Turkey  government is asking
for an exemption for the refiner’s Iranian business via Halk
bank from the U.S. sanctions, the official said.  Market ‘Well-Supplied’  Iran produced 3.5 million barrels of oil a day last month,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Saudi
Arabia , the biggest member in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, had output of 9.7 million barrels a day.  Oil markets are currently well supplied, Saudi Arabia’s
deputy oil minister told reporters today in  New Delhi .  “The market is very much well-supplied and there’s no need
for concern,” Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman said. “We have
demonstrated to our friends here how much excess capacity there
is today and how much capacity will be there in the future.”  U.S. inventories rose by  3.55 million  barrels, the  American
Petroleum Institute  said. A government report today may show
they gained by 1.35 million barrels, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of analysts.  Gasoline Stockpiles Grow  Gasoline supplies rose 314,000 barrels last week, figures
from the industry-funded API showed. They are projected to
increase  250,000 barrels  in the Energy Department report,
according to the median of 10 analyst estimates in the survey.
Distillate inventories, a category that includes diesel and
heating oil, gained 630,000 barrels compared with a forecast for
a 1.5 million barrel decline.  The survey also estimated that refineries operated at 83.5
percent of capacity in the seven days ended Feb. 17, down 0.5
percentage point from the prior week’s one-month high.  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
report at 11 a.m. today in  Washington , a day later than usual
because the government and financial markets were closed for the
Presidents’ Day holiday. The API collects stockpile information
on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk
terminals and pipelines and files the reports with the
government for the report.  Oil’s advance in  New York  is stalling after the 14-day
relative strength index climbed above 70 yesterday for the first
time since Nov. 16, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
This indicates futures have risen too quickly and further gains
aren’t sustainable. Investors tend to sell contracts when prices
are considered overbought. Today’s reading is about 68.4.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended buying September crude
futures on the Nymex on speculation supplies will tighten after
the reversal of the Seaway pipeline in June, according to a
weekly report e-mailed today. The bank also advised investors to
stop buying July Brent contracts in London.  The 500-mile (800-kilometer) pipeline owned by Enterprise
Products Partners LP and Enbridge Inc. will allow oil from the
Midcontinent to reach the  Gulf of Mexico  for export.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  