-- Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Dropped From Ex-Employee Suit
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-02-23T20:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/buffett-s-berkshire-hathaway-is-dismissed-from-ex-employee-suit.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  was dismissed from a lawsuit filed in  Indiana  by a former
manager at its Forest River unit who said he was fired after
complaining about illegal transactions.  U.S. District Judge James T. Moody in South Bend dismissed
Berkshire Hathaway in a decision dated yesterday. Forest River,
which makes recreational vehicles, and founder Peter J. Liegl
remain defendants in the suit brought by Brad A. Mart, who was
general manager of Forest River Financial Services.  “Because no claims remain against Berkshire Hathaway, it
is dismissed from the case,” Moody wrote in his decision, which
was entered in the case docket today. Mart didn’t make clear
what false representations he accused Berkshire Hathaway of
making and didn’t follow procedures for suing under the
 Sarbanes-Oxley Act , the judge said.  Berkshire Hathaway, based in Omaha,  Nebraska , agreed to buy
Forest River in 2005 for an undisclosed price. Mart said Liegl
agreed to make him chief executive officer of Elkhart, Indiana-
based Forest River when the founder retired in 2008.  Mart said he discovered Liegl was siphoning money from the
company and told Buffett, who didn’t act on the information,
according to Moody’s decision. Mart learned he was being fired
in a November 2008 letter, although Liegl had announced the
month before that Mart was being made president, Moody said.  Stephen A. Kennedy, a lawyer for Mart in  Dallas , didn’t
immediately return a call for comment on the ruling.  Whistle-Blower Claims  “With respect to the pending claims, the company intends
to defend them vigorously,” Steven J. Pearlman, a lawyer for
Forest River and Liegl with Seyfarth Shaw LLP in  Chicago , said
in a telephone interview.  As to the Sarbanes-Oxley whistle-blower claims, which also
were dismissed against his clients, Pearlman said, “The company
believes that the court conducted a thorough and accurate
analysis of the legal issues and correctly concluded that it
lacked subject-matter jurisdiction.”  The case is Mart v. Forest River, 10-cv-118, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Indiana (South Bend).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  