-- Caisse’s Sabia Says He’s “Quite Optimistic” TMX-Maple Will Get Approved
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-02-23T18:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/caisse-s-sabia-says-he-s-quite-optimistic-tmx-maple-will-get-approved.html
Caisse de Depot et Placement du
Quebec Chief Executive Officer  Michael Sabia  said he’s “quite
optimistic” a  takeover  of  TMX Group Inc. (X)  by a group of banks
and pension funds will be approved by regulators.  “We’ve made a lot of progress,” Sabia told reporters
today in  Montreal . “I am quite optimistic now that this
transaction will be completed.”  The Montreal-based pension fund, Canada’s biggest, is part
of Maple Group Acquisition Corp., a group of 13 Canadian
financial-services firms proposing to buy the Toronto Stock
Exchange owner in a C$3.73 billion ($3.74 billion) deal.  Maple has been seeking approval for a TMX takeover from
provincial regulators and Canada’s Competition Bureau, which on
Nov. 29 said it had “serious concerns” with the transaction.
Maple and TMX have been working to address those concerns.  “I believe a lot of good work has been done and I believe
that they are a bit more comfortable,” Sabia said.  Maple will build a “national champion” with the TMX
transaction, Sabia said. The Competition Bureau has a choice to
make: either allow the creation of a Canadian champion, or run
the risk that a foreign buyer tries again to take over the
Canadian exchange owner, he said.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc tried to buy TMX in a
friendly transaction announced in February last year. Maple
followed three months later with an unsolicited bid for TMX on
May 13 to challenge the LSE-TMX transaction. TMX and the London
exchange scrapped their agreement in June after failing to get
enough investor support for the combination, leaving Maple as
the sole suitor for the Toronto-based company.  TMX rose 1.2 percent to C$42.50 at 1:01 p.m. on the Toronto
Stock Exchange.  ‘Right Thing to do’  Sabia said the Competition Bureau ought to approve Maple’s
plan because it’s the “right thing to do” for Quebec and
 Canada .  “I very much hope that the officials in the Competition
Bureau will understand the nation-building importance in this
and think very hard about what happens if this doesn’t happen
because I think they will find they will have created a pretty
serious problem,” Sabia said.  Maple has set a Feb. 29 deadline for its offer to buy at
least 70 percent of TMX shares, and can extend it until April 30
if regulatory approvals haven’t been received.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  