-- California’s Stockton Seeks to Avoid Vallejo Path to Court
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-02-23T22:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/california-s-stockton-strives-to-avoid-vallejo-s-bankruptcy-fate.html
After a man with a laptop walked
into Best PC Value computer repair in  Stockton (3654MF) ,  California (STOCA1) ,
owner Richard La Frentz telephoned the police. Hours before, the
same man had been recorded by a security camera hopping a locked
gate behind the store and stealing the computer.  The police didn’t come. They told La Frentz to call his
insurance company, he said.  “It is the Wild West out here,” said La Frentz, 47, who
keeps two handguns at his store in Stockton’s  Miracle Mile 
shopping district. “When I call the police department, I don’t
get help. The city can’t help me because of the condition that
it’s in.”  Stockton, an agricultural center of about 292,000, is
fighting to avert  California  biggest bankruptcy since Vallejo’s
in 2008. The city has shrunk its payroll, including a quarter of
the roughly 425-member police force. Twice since 2010 it has
declared a state of fiscal emergency to force cuts on public
employees.  Stockton’s City Council will be asked to vote to take the
first steps toward bankruptcy and default on bonds at a Feb. 28
meeting, according to a person familiar with the council’s
agenda who wasn’t authorized to speak about the matter. The
issue isn’t on the agenda, which will be updated tomorrow.
Connie Cochran, a  City Hall  spokeswoman, didn’t respond to
telephone calls and an e-mail seeking comment on the potential
bankruptcy filing and interviews with officials.  Fiscal Status Briefing  City Manager Bob Deis will brief reporters tomorrow to
“provide background information and answer questions from the
media related to the city’s fiscal status,” according to a
statement distributed today.  “I do not believe bankruptcy is a better option but it is
an equitable approach because it is judicially supervised,”
David P. Mastagni, a partner at Mastagni, Holstedt, Amick,
Miller & Johnsen, the Sacramento-based  law firm  representing
Stockton’s police union in a lawsuit against the city, said
today by telephone. “It will take the politics out of balancing
the budget.”  The San Joaquin and Calaveras Counties Central Labor
Council, representing Stockton-area workers, circulated an e-
mail to its members announcing a meeting to “discuss the plan
for Tuesday,” the day the City Council meets.  A state law passed last year requires the city to work with
a “neutral evaluator” for at least 60 days before seeking
bankruptcy court protection. The process is similar to mediation
and gives creditors a right to participate. It can be bypassed
if the city declares a fiscal emergency, according to the law.  Sidestepping Vallejo Fate  A deepwater port on the San Joaquin River, 75 miles (120
kilometers) east of the Golden Gate Bridge, Stockton is trying
to sidestep the fate of Vallejo, its neighbor about a 90-minute
drive away. Half the size of Stockton, Vallejo in 2008 became
the biggest  California city  and at the time, the second-biggest
local government after Orange County to file for bankruptcy.  Vallejo turned into a national symbol for distressed
municipal finances after it failed to win pay cuts from its
unions. It emerged from court protection in 2011 with a skeletal
workforce, about 20 new medical-marijuana dispensaries and a
surge in prostitution, while forfeiting its ability to issue
debt for five years.  “We truly want to avoid that,” Stockton Mayor Ann Johnston, 69, said in a Jan. 19 interview at City Hall. “We’re
not moving in that direction whatsoever. Our focus is to balance
our budget, to continue to provide services, to continue laying
the foundation for our future recovery.”  A Stockton sewer bond maturing in April 2022 traded Feb. 21
at an average yield of about 6.2 percent. The bond is rated A,
sixth-highest, by  Standard & Poor’s .  Worse Than Vallejo  Stockton is already worse off than Vallejo. It had the
eighth-highest violent crime rate in the country in 2010; the
second-highest foreclosure rate in the U.S., behind Las Vegas;
and the eighth-highest unemployment, at 15.9 percent in
December, almost double the national average.  Such factors helped earn Stockton the title of “ most
miserable city ” in the U.S. twice in the past four years by
Forbes.com, out of the 200 largest metropolitan statistical
areas. In November, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded about
$137.7 million of its debt to Baa1, the third-lowest investment
grade, citing Stockton’s “precarious financial position.”  Only a few years earlier, the city was flush with cash from
property and sales taxes, development fees and permits in the
midst of a  housing  boom, Kathy Miller, Stockton’s vice mayor,
said in a telephone interview.  “They couldn’t build housing fast enough,” Miller said.
“People from the Bay Area were pouring into the valley,
snapping up houses.”  Urban Flight  Buyers fleeing the  San Francisco  Bay Area’s soaring prices,
and willing to drive two hours, looked on Stockton as an
affordable alternative. The population jumped almost 20 percent
from 2000 to 2010, according to U.S. Census Bureau data.  Single-family  home construction , which had averaged 2,500
units a year from 1991 and 1997, tripled to 7,500 units annually
from 2003 and 2005, according to Robert Denk, senior economist
at the Washington-based  National Association of Home Builders .  Buyers who paid an average of 3.5 times their annual
salaries for a Stockton home in the 1990s were paying a ratio of
7.5 times in 2006, as measured by median house price to
 household income , Denk said.  Housing construction collapsed in 2009, when less than
1,000 homes were built, Denk said.  In 2011, Stockton had the second-highest foreclosure rate
in the U.S. among cities with a population of more than 200,000,
trailing only  Las Vegas . One in every 18 Stockton homes had
foreclosure filings, according to RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine,
California-based data provider.  Falling Revenue  A drop in property-tax and program-fee collections shrank
the city’s revenue 20 percent to a projected $161.8 million in
fiscal 2012 from $203.1 million in 2009. At the same time, union
contracts drove employee pay and benefits higher.  Public-safety costs represent 77 percent of the city’s
general fund, Susan Mayer, who was Stockton’s chief financial
officer until her retirement Feb. 15, said in a telephone
interview. The situation has fueled talk of bankruptcy in recent
years.  City Council member Dale Fritchen, at a February 2009
budget committee meeting, asked the city attorney’s office to
lay out the pros and cons of  bankruptcy protection .  In the 2011 spending plan, City Manager Bob Deis said
Stockton “is near insolvency.” He cited depleted reserves,
debt that puts the general fund at risk and “multi-year labor
contracts with escalating costs that simply cannot be paid
within anticipated revenues in the foreseeable future.”  Fiscal Emergencies  The city declared a fiscal emergency in May 2010 when it
faced a $23 million deficit and extended the declaration last
year when the gap widened to $37 million. The moves, which let
city officials force changes on existing labor contracts to
balance the budget, prompted the police union to sue.  “They simply don’t want to share the pain that all the
rest of the city’s employees have shared,” Johnston said of the
police union.  “We need to continue to evaluate how we do business, the
kind of employee compensation and benefits, to bring them in
line with the marketplace,” said the mayor, who is paid $82,099
a year, according to the city’s website. She also runs a party
and balloon-supply store.  In October, the city warned it may default on redevelopment
agency debt issued in 2006, citing a shortfall in tax-increment
revenue. Debt service will exceed available revenue by about
$858,000 in the North Stockton project area, the city said.  Closely Watched  “People are watching closely to see what they do,” Matt Fabian, a managing director at Concord, Massachusetts-based
Municipal Market Advisors, said in a telephone interview. “The
Stockton bonds have been trading fairly cheaply, at 88 cents on
the dollar. Bond holders are buying Stockton cheaply to insulate
themselves against potential problems and further credit
deterioration in Stockton.”  Among large nongovernment employers in the city are San
Diego Chargers owner Alex Spanos’s A.G. Spanos Construction Co.
and Duraflame Inc., the closely-held firelog manufacturer.  Stockton ranked eighth in the U.S. in violent crime per
100,000 residents in 2010, according to FBI data on metropolitan
statistical areas. This includes murder, non-negligent
manslaughter, rape, robbery and aggravated assault.  The police department is down to about 310 officers. It has
lost its community-policing, narcotics and auto-theft units in
the last two years, Steve Leonesio, president of the Stockton
Police Officers’ Association, said in a telephone interview.  Empty Patrol Cars  “Because we’ve lost so many officers, we are basically a
reactive department,” Leonesio said. “There’s a lot of empty
desks, a lot of empty police cars, very few police officers in
the street.”  Stockton hired some Vallejo veterans to help it steer clear
of bankruptcy. Mayer joined the city about a year ago, after
serving as Vallejo’s assistant finance director.  It also retained John Knox, a partner at Orrick, Herrington
& Sutcliffe LLP in San Francisco who helped represent Vallejo in
 bankruptcy court . He was hired “to advise the city in various
financing and litigation-related matters,” according to a City
Council agenda item. Knox declined to comment on his work for
Stockton, responding to an e-mailed inquiry.  In  December , the city agreed to pay $79,900 to Management
Partners Inc. to assess Stockton’s financial condition. The
Cincinnati, Ohio-based firm lists Vallejo, Harrisburg,
 Pennsylvania , and Orange County among its clients. Harrisburg’s
City Council sought court protection for the state’s capital
city last year and was rejected.  Preparation for Restructuring  “If we have to seek protection to restructure our debts
and to reorganize, we want to be able to know fully what our
financial position is, be able to craft a recovery plan and to
get the city back on the road to recovery,” said Miller, the
vice mayor.  Stockton has cut its workforce to about 1,200 from about
1,700 in 2007, Johnston said.  “Just walk down the hall -- empty offices, empty desks,”
Johnston said. “It just makes it more difficult for us to
respond quickly to the public when they need certain services.”  The emptiness extended to the nearby Pacific Avenue
shopping district. Retailers there tell of armed robberies and
break-ins. A jeweler said his wife won’t go to the grocery store
without him.  La Frentz, the computer-repair shop owner who had another
break-in at his business on Jan. 30, said he’s sure the city
will end up seeking bankruptcy protection.  “It’s coming,” La Frentz said. “I almost guarantee it.”  -- With assistance from Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  and
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware . Editors:  Pete Young , Ted Bunker, Paul Tighe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net . 