-- Calpers Management of Private Retirement Accounts Proposed
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-02-23T18:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/calpers-management-of-private-retirement-accounts-is-proposed.html
The  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , the largest U.S. public pension, would be
permitted to manage retirement accounts for private industry
under legislation backed by the leader of the state Senate.  California (STOCA1)  Senate President Pro Tem Darrel Steinberg and
Senator Kevin de León, a Los Angeles Democrat, introduced a
proposal to allow Calpers and private fund managers to oversee
individual retirement accounts for 7 million Californians whose
employers don’t offer pensions or 401(k) plans.  Their proposal would draw 3 percent from the salaries of
eligible workers unless the workers opt out. That would put $6.6
billion into new retirement accounts in the first year,
according to a statement from de León’s office. Employers with
five or more employees would be required to either participate
in the program or offer retirement plans of their own.  “California threatens to become home to a sea of discarded
seniors unless we wake up and address the looming retirement
tsunami,” de León said in the statement.  De León introduced bills in  2008  and  2009  that would have
put Calpers in charge of retirement accounts for employees of
private and nonprofit employers that didn’t offer retirement
plans. Those bills drew opposition from unions, who argued they
would stretch Calpers beyond its present mission, and from Wall
Street firms that saw them as intruding on their turf.  Neither bill made it to the Senate floor.  The new bill wouldn’t automatically entrust the retirement
accounts to Calpers. Rather, the $235.5 billion  fund , which
manages benefits for 1.6 million public employees, retirees and
beneficiaries, would be able to vie for the business under an
investment board headed by the state treasurer. Private firms
could compete to manage all or part of the portfolio.  Calpers hasn’t developed a position on the proposal,
spokesman  Brad Pacheco  said by telephone yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  