-- Cameron Hosts Talks in Bid to Bring Somali Security, End Piracy, Terrorism
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-02-23T10:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/cameron-hosts-talks-in-bid-to-bring-somali-security-end-piracy-terrorism.html
Representatives of more than 40
countries and international organizations are meeting in London
today to discuss how to restore stability to Somalia.  The conference, hosted by Prime Minister  David Cameron  and
attended by U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Somali
President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed, will focus on promoting
security and political processes as well as combating terrorism
and piracy originating in the war-torn Horn of Africa country,
Cameron said.  “Pirates are disrupting vital trade routes and kidnapping
tourists; young minds are being poisoned by radicalism, breeding
terrorism that is threatening not just Somalia but the whole
world,” Cameron said in a speech to open the conference. “It
is in all our interests to try and help the Somali people to
address these problems.”  The nation has been wracked by civil war since the ouster
of Mohamed Siad Barre, the former dictator, in 1991. Al-Shabaab,
a militant group linked to al-Qaeda, controls most of southern
and central Somalia and has been fighting the president’s
administration in the capital, Mogadishu, in a bid to establish
an Islamic state.  “For two decades politicians in the West have too often
dismissed the problems in Somalia as simply too difficult and
too remote to deal with,” Cameron said. “Engagement has been
sporadic and half-hearted.  That fatalism has failed Somalia.
And it has failed the international community too. Today we have
an unprecedented opportunity to change that. There is a real
momentum right now.”  More Peacekeepers  The United Nations Security Council yesterday authorized an
increase in the African Union peacekeeping mission, which
includes soldiers from Uganda, Burundi and Djibouti, to 17,731
troops from 12,000. Kenya deployed troops in southern Somalia in
October in pursuit of al-Shabaab.  More than 3,500 Somalis are actives as pirates, the UN said
Feb. 16, while a further 1,000 are in custody in 20 countries.
Somali pirate attacks rose to a record 237 in 2011, with ransoms
of $160 million paid to release 31 hijacked vessels, according
to a One Earth Future Foundation report. Piracy cost the
shipping industry and governments $6.9 billion last year,
including $2.7 billion in extra fuel to speed up through the
seas off Somalia and $1.3 billion on military operations,
according to the foundation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  