-- Canada Fourth Quarter Financial Statistics Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-02-23T13:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/canada-fourth-quarter-financial-statistics-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's financial statistics report for the fourth
quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  Operating profits for Canadian corporations were up
9.0% to $71.4 billion in the fourth quarter from the
previous quarter. This marks the highest level of profits
since the economic downturn in late 2008. However, it was
$6.1 billion below the peak in the third quarter 2008.  In the fourth quarter, 15 of 22 industries reported
higher profits.  Quarterly operating profits  In the non-financial sector, operating profits in the
fourth quarter increased 5.3% to $53.5 billion, following
a 3.2% gain in the previous quarter. Much of this growth
came from the manufacturing industry.  In the financial sector, operating profits increased
21.8% to $17.9 billion, following a 10.9% decline in the
third quarter. Most of the fourth-quarter growth came from
the  insurance industry .  On a year-over-year basis, operating profits for
Canadian corporations were 13.6% higher in the fourth
quarter of 2011 than in the same quarter of 2010. Profits
increased 13.0% in the non-financial sector and 15.6% in
the financial sector.  Quarterly change in operating profits  Non-financial sector  Profits in manufacturing industries led the growth in
the non-financial sector in the fourth quarter, increasing
19.9% to $14.2 billion.  Profits for manufacturers of motor vehicles and parts
(+169%) more than doubled to $1.7 billion. Petroleum and
coal products manufacturers reported a 25.8% increase in
profits to $3.4 billion.  Profits for chemicals, plastics and rubber products
manufacturers increased 20.1% to $2.5 billion, while
profits for fabricated metal product and machinery
manufacturers increased 42.7% to $1.2 billion.  Profits for the information and cultural industry
increased 17.4% to $4.6 billion, with telecommunications
accounting for most of this growth.  Wholesalers' profits increased 6.4% to $6.1 billion,
while retailers' profits declined 3.6% to $3.7 billion.  Profits for the oil and gas industry were relatively
stable, rising 1.9% to $4.4 billion.  Financial sector  The fourth-quarter increase in profits in the financial
sector follows two consecutive quarters of decline.  Most of the fourth-quarter growth came from the
insurance industry, where profits increased by $2.3
billion to just over $1.9 billion. This reversed a $325-
million loss recorded in the third quarter. The fourth-
quarter increase was led by life insurers, who again
experienced volatility in actuarial liabilities
adjustments.  Depository and non-depository credit intermediaries
also contributed to growth in the financial sector.
Profits for depository credit intermediaries, mainly
chartered banks, rose 4.5% to $9.4 billion, the fourth
consecutive quarterly increase. Profits for non-depository
credit intermediaries rose 18.0% to $2.5 billion.  Note to readers  Quarterly financial statistics are compiled using
financial information provided by enterprises that derive
this data from their financial statements. Starting on
January 1, 2011, Canadian publicly accountable enterprises
are required to replace Canadian Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (CGAAP) with International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS) when preparing their financial
statements for fiscal years starting on or after January
1, 2011. Canadian private enterprises are required to
replace CGAAP by Accounting Standards for Private
Enterprises or IFRS. The adoption of new accounting
standards by some enterprises since the beginning of 2011
may affect comparability with prior periods.  Quarterly profit numbers referred to in this release
are seasonally adjusted and are in current dollars. The
quarterly financial data for the first three quarters of
2011 have been revised.  Quarterly financial statistics for enterprises are
based upon a sample survey and represent the activities of
all corporations in  Canada , except those that are
government controlled or not-for-profit. An enterprise can
be a single corporation or a family of corporations under
common ownership or control, for which consolidated
financial statements are produced.  Profits referred to in this analysis are operating
profits earned from normal business activities. For non-
financial industries, operating profits exclude interest
and dividend revenue and capital gains/losses whereas, for
financial industries, these are included, along with
interest paid on deposits.  Operating profits differ from net profits, which
represent the after-tax profits earned by corporations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  