-- Cancer Scanning Curbed as Cascading U.S. Pay Cuts Take a Toll
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-02-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/cancer-scans-curbed-as-6-billion-in-u-s-pay-cuts-hit-radiology-services.html
Two years ago,  Robert Rapoport , a
radiologist in  Albany , New York, spent about $1 million to
replace a 10-year-old open  MRI  machine, the only one available
within a 30-minute drive.  It’s an expense his imaging centers wouldn’t be able to
recoup today, he says.  Rapoport, reeling from the effects of $6 billion in federal
reimbursement reductions since 2007, says he’s reached the point
where he can’t buy  equipment  for his patients that will be more
effective or safer without taking a loss. And this year, he
faces a new ruling: The U.S. has set a limit on how much it will
pay for more than one scan per patient in a day.  Regulators say the reductions ensure that testing is
efficient and necessary. Doctors, though, are pushing a lobbying
effort in  Washington  to peel the cuts back, saying they’ve
forced centers to close, limiting how many MRI’s and CT scans
are available to cancer patients and trauma victims,
particularly in underserved rural areas.  “There will be extreme delays for procedures, delays that
could mean a removable mass turns into an incurable cancer,”
Rapoport, 47, said in a telephone interview.  Since Jan. 2007, the number of mammography centers in the
U.S. has shrunk by 209 to 8,624 on Feb. 1, leaving 1,319 fewer
breast cancer scanners in place, according to U.S. data. While
the U.S. doesn’t track data on how many facilities have MRI’s
and CT scanners, radiologists such as Rapaport say the data
reflects what’s happened with all imaging centers.  2007 Change  Reimbursement for imaging centers first became an issue
after Medicare spending on the services almost doubled to $13.7
billion between 2000 and 2005. That spurt prompted concern by
Medicare officials and U.S. legislators that doctors who owned
the equipment, and many of the centers, were doing unnecessary
medical scans to boost their profits.  In reaction, the 2005 Deficit Reduction Act trimmed
Medicare spending for imaging by $1.7 billion, or 12.5 percent,
to $12 billion, starting in 2007. Since then, successive
congresses have reduced the amount further and by 2010,
reimbursement levels for Medicare spending had fallen to $11.5
billion, the lowest since 2003, according to the  Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services .  Now, radiologists and their Washington-based trade groups
are pushing back. They’ve enlisted the backing of 196 U.S. House
members for  legislation  introduced by Representatives Pete Olson, a Texas Republican, and Betty McCollum, a Minnesota
Democrat, that  would undo  the January policy limiting multiple
same-day scans while requiring independent cost analysis using a
method defined by radiologists to justify any further
reimbursement reductions.  Patient Welfare  The cascading cuts shouldered by radiologists since 2007 do
more than punish doctors for possible excesses, said Sandra
Schneider, a radiologist in Rochester, New York. They are
negatively affecting the welfare of patients, particularly those
in rural areas, she said.  “We rely on CMS and other agencies to do these measures in
the best interest of patient care, not on payment,” said
Schneider, formerly the president of the  American College of
Emergency Physicians . “They’re doing everything they can to
show they’re cutting costs without looking at the unintended
consequences downstream.”  Government measures to identify what services are
inappropriate also are under fire. A new efficiency measure
developed by CMS to reduce CT scans in emergency rooms was only
17 percent accurate in assessing which patients should get a
scan, according to a study published today in  Annals of
Emergency Medicine.   Health-Care Spending  Health-care spending in the U.S. reached almost $2.6
trillion in 2010, more than ten times the $256 billion spent in
1980, according to CMS. By 2019, national health spending is
expected to reach $4.5 trillion and comprise 19.3 percent of
GDP, the center said.  Starting this year, CMS will cut doctors reimbursements by
25 percent each time a Medicare patient undergoes more than one
scan in a given day. The policy would save about $100 million
that the government wants to use to beef up reimbursements for
primary care and other medical services, according to CMS.  The rule may discourage doctors from treating patients
after serious accidents or strokes, or limit options for cancer
patients whose disease has spread, Schneider said. Such cases
may require scans on several parts of the body or repeat imaging
to confirm a diagnosis, she said.  Trauma Patient  “The most obvious is a trauma patient who breaks bones in
the face and body,” Schneider said. “They’re going to be
pushing to not do both studies on the same day.”  Medicare says radiologists can be more efficient, and that
limiting payments ensures that more tests are only done when
needed.  Doctors say the policy is unfair and doesn’t take into
account processing time. Rapaport cites the example of a patient
with brain and chest injuries who may need 100 images of each
body part. It may take two doctors with different specialties to
pore over the data, and it doesn’t make sense for the second
physician will be paid less, he said.  In 2006, Herb Kuhn, who was director of the Center for
Medicare Management at the time, said the initial cuts were
included in the 2005 Deficit Reduction Act because the previous
rates provided “inappropriate incentives for growth in volume
and intensity of services with limited clinical benefit.”  From 2009 to 2010, as the cuts were rolled out, the volume
of imaging services decreased by 2.5 percent, according to CMS.  Skewed Incentives  The old fee schedule “got skewed in favor of specialty
services,” said Judith Feder, a fellow at Washington-based
 Urban Institute , which analyzes social and economic policy.  “Now the schedule needs to be rebalanced,” said Feder,
who is also a professor of public policy at  Georgetown
University  in Washington. “We need to reinvest appropriately in
primary care as we work to be more efficient and mindful in the
way we’re paying specialists.”  The cuts are prompting radiologists to close practices or
take hospital jobs, creating gaps in coverage in outlying areas,
said Bibb Allen, chairman of the American College of Radiology
Economics Commission. Hospitals are reimbursed more for imaging
work than the private practices, meaning CMS may end up paying
more per patient over the long run, he said.  ‘More Expensive Venue’  “In their zeal to try to reduce payments for imaging in
the physician fee schedule, they’re really just pushing that
work over to a more expensive venue,” Allen said.  The radiologists reference a 2009 study by the  National
Bureau of Economic Research , showing increased use of imaging is
linked with longer life expectancies. A January report in Annals
of Emergency Medicine said head injury patients treated with
blood thinners to prevent clots should be CT scanned twice in a
24-hour period before they are discharged, to check for delayed
hemorrhages.  “Every year we’ve fought one more battle against payment
reduction,” Allen said. “We’ve been asked to make an apology
for a very valuable tool in the health care enterprise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  