-- Capital Shopping’s Asset Values Stagnate as British Retail Chains Struggle
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-02-23T17:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/capital-shopping-s-asset-values-stagnate-as-british-retail-chains-struggle.html
Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc (CSCG) ,
the U.K.’s largest publicly traded shopping-mall owner, said the
value of its assets stagnated last year as the fragile economy
made it harder to raise rents.  Net asset value was 391 pence a share at the end of 2011,
unchanged from six months earlier, the London-based company
known as CSC said in a statement today. Annual  net income  fell
to 30 million pounds from 511.8 million pounds.  CSC predicted a “challenging” year for retailers as
shoppers cut back on spending as unemployment rises. The company
signed 198 new leases last year at discounts to their appraised
rental value. Retailers in administration, like Peacocks Stores
Ltd. and Blacks Leisure Group Plc, represented 3 percent of
CSC’s gross rental income, up from 1 percent a year earlier, and
rose by an additional 2 percentage points in January.  “These tenants are still trading and paying rents,” Chief
Executive Officer David Fischel said on a conference call. CSC’s
vacancy rate of 3.3 percent compares with about 15 percent
average for shopping centers in inferior locations, he said.  CSC advanced 2.3 pence to close at 337.1 pence in  London .
The shares have gained about 17 percent in three months, the
second-best performance of the 11 members of the FTSE 350 Real
Estate Investment Trust Index, which has risen 8.3 percent.  ‘Fully Priced’  “The current valuation looks more than fully priced,”
said Alison Watson, an analyst at  Liberum Capital  with a
“hold” recommendation on the shares, citing the limited
prospects for rental growth and difficulties faced by retailers.  Profit excluding changes in asset values and one-time items
rose 43 percent to 138.6 million pounds ($218 million).  Net
rental income rose 31 percent to 364 million pounds, lifted by
the 1.6 billion-pound purchase of the  Trafford Centre  in the
English city of Manchester from Peel Holdings, a property
company controlled by billionaire  John Whittaker . The mall added
29 million pounds to profit, CSC said.  January’s acquisition of the Trafford Centre was the
biggest single property transaction in  Europe  last year,
according to New York-based Real Capital Analytics Inc. CSC now
owns 10 of the U.K.’s 25 largest malls by retail sales,
including the Metrocentre at Gateshead. The company also
acquired a 75 percent stake in the Broadmarsh shopping center in
Nottingham for 55 million pounds in November.  Excluding acquisitions, CSC lifted rents by 3.6 percent
last year at its properties. The number of visitors to its malls
rose by 2 percent last year.  Capital Shopping will pay a second-half  dividend  of 10
pence a share. That took the final payout for 2011 to 15 pence a
share, unchanged from the previous year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 