-- Caterpillar Plant Closing Deal Ratified by Canadian Union
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-02-23T22:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/caterpillar-union-workers-ratify-severance-package-as-ontario-plant-shuts.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ’s settlement with
workers at an Ontario plant was ratified by the Canadian Auto
Workers union, marking the end of 10 months of negotiations as
the company closes its locomotive factory.  Caterpillar, the largest maker of diesel-electric
locomotives, will give about 465 union workers three weeks of
pay for every year of work and a C$1,500 ($1,502) bonus, Shannon Devine, a spokeswoman for the union, said today in an e-mail.
That’s more than the minimum required by Ontario law, the union
said. The settlement was approved by 95 percent of voting
members.  Caterpillar, based in Peoria, Illinois, will move assembly
to other plants in North and South America because of high costs
at the plant acquired in its 2010 purchase of Electro Motive
Diesel Inc. The closing is part of Caterpillar’s effort to boost
profit as it expands in the growing rail market and competes
against companies such as General Electric Co.  “We are incredibly saddened today that 465 middle-class
jobs have been taken out of the community,” Ken Lewenza,
president of the CAW, said on a conference call today.  Severance payments will range from about C$13,000 for three
years’ service to a high of about C$148,000 for about 30 years,
Caterpillar’s subsidiary Progress Rail Services said in a
statement today. Local law mandates one week’s pay for each year
of work up to 26 weeks for employees with more than five years’
service, it said. Those with less than five years get nothing.  Union Costs  Caterpillar also will complete funding of the employees’
pension trust and will pay the union C$350,000 to fund
settlement of all grievances, establish an adjustment program
and cover representation costs for bargaining unit employees.  Severance plans for the 300 non-union workers at the plant
haven’t been determined yet because many of the salaried
management employees will be involved in the wind down of the
factory, which may take weeks or months, Anne Marie Quinn, an
outside spokeswoman for Caterpillar at Fleishman-Hillard in
Toronto, said in an e-mail today.  The union and the company began negotiating a work
agreement in April. Caterpillar locked out workers on Jan. 1
after contract talks failed and on Feb. 3 said it would close
the factory because costs put it at a competitive disadvantage.
Caterpillar had demanded a 50 percent cut in wages to reduce
costs, union officials said.  Lewenza has criticized the company for its cost-cutting
measures after Caterpillar posted record net income of $7.40 a
share on sales of $60 billion in 2011. Caterpillar on Jan. 26
forecast a 25 percent rise in earnings this year to about $9.25
a share as demand rises for shovels and trucks. While 2011 sales
for Electro-Motive Diesel rose by $861 million, profit declined
by $7 million.  Caterpillar is also the world’s largest maker of
construction and mining equipment. The shares rose 0.3 percent
to $116.20 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  