-- Centrica May Mothball More Gas Plants as Capacity Trims Profits
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-02-23T15:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/centrica-may-mothball-more-gas-plants-as-capacity-trims-profits.html
Centrica Plc (CNA) , the U.K.’s biggest
supplier of residential gas and energy, may mothball three more
of its eight gas-fired power plants, after announcing the
closure of two today.  “Gas-fired generation is not making money at the moment,”
Centrica Chief Executive Officer Sam Laidlaw said at a press
conference today. “We’re shutting down two and we’ve moved
three onto open-cycle.”  The U.K.’s reserve margin, the amount by which reliable
generation capacity exceeds peak demand, stands at 32 percent,
managing director Mark Hanafin said at the meeting. U.K.
electricity demand dropped about 4 percent last year and as much
as 6,500 megawatts of additional gas-fired capacity will have
been added to the system over 2011 and 2012, he said.  “What’s happening is the older plants are just not
running,” Hanafin said. The three plants being used to supply
short-term generation needs will only continue operating if the
company can continue winning contracts to do so, he said. “If
we weren’t to win those contracts then those stations will be
mothballed.”  Centrica announced the closure of its Barry and King’s Lynn
plants in a statement today. Its Peterborough, Brigg and
Roosecote stations are now configured to run more flexibly and
operate in the Short Term Operating Reserve market, the Windsor,
England-based company said.  About 10,000 megawatts of coal-fired power plants are due
to close by 2015 because of European Union emissions laws. The
retirement of nuclear plants towards the end of the decade, will
also boost the need for new generation, Laidlaw said.  “At the moment you have no profitability in gas-fired
generation, but if you roll forward towards the second half of
the decade the country is going to need more gas fired
generation,” Hanafin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  