-- Centrica Full-Year Profit Gains on North Sea Gas Production
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-02-23T17:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/centrica-full-year-profit-gains-3-on-north-sea-gas-production.html
Centrica Plc (CNA) , the U.K.’s biggest
residential gas supplier, said full-year adjusted profit rose 3
percent, boosted by oil and gas production and higher profits
from the company’s North American business.  Adjusted earnings rose to 1.33 billion pounds ($2.1
billion) from 1.297 billion pounds a year earlier, the Windsor,
England-based company said today in a statement. Revenue was 2
percent higher at 22.8 billion pounds.  Operating profits from the company’s U.K. upstream gas
business rose 33 percent to 1.02 billion pounds, boosted by
acquisitions in the  North Sea . That helped offset declining
income from the residential energy and gas division, where the
meltdown of nuclear reactors in  Japan , unrest in the  Middle East 
and warmer weather crimped margins.  The backdrop in 2011 was “challenging,” Finance Director
Nick Luff said on a conference call with reporters. “There were
the high oil and gas prices driven by the Arab spring,” as well
as volatility and warmer weather, he said. While household
energy prices were higher, the average dual-fuel bill was 37
pounds lower in 2011 at 1,024 pounds.  Centrica gained 0.9 percent to 296.2 pence in  London . The
shares have fallen 12 percent in the past twelve months.  Income from residential energy sales retreated 30 percent
to 522 million pounds, Centrica said. The utility boosted
domestic gas rates by an average of 18 percent and electricity
prices by 16 percent from the middle of August, to benefit from
higher winter demand. It trimmed power prices in January, along
with other major suppliers including Electricite de France SA
and SSE Plc following a decline in wholesale gas prices.  Normal Consumption  “More normal consumption thus far in 2012, as well as a
lower forward curve should help underpin margins for the current
financial year,” Credit Suisse AG analyst Mark Freshney said in
a Feb. 17 note to investors. The company has also trimmed costs
across the group, he added.  Adjusted operating profit was 2.42 billion pounds, missing
the median estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News
of 2.5 billion pounds. That compares with a profit of 2.39
billion pounds on that basis a year earlier.  “Whilst  gas prices  are still high, we would hope for less
volatility in 2012,” Luff said. The outlook for this year is
“positive,” he said.  The utility’s oil and gas reserves have risen 39 percent
since November to 553 million barrels of oil equivalent,
according to Mirabaud Securities analyst Agustin Hochschild.
Production in 2012 should climb as much as 26 percent to 53
million barrels, he said.  North Sea Fields  Centrica has been buying fields in the North Sea to guard
against fluctuations in the price of gas imports and declining
production from existing deposits. It paid $1.6 billion to
 Statoil ASA (STL)  in November for fields in the Norwegian North Sea
and has announced 1.4 billion pounds in acquisitions this year.
It bought a stake in the Statfjord field from  ConocoPhillips (COP)  in
January and added seven producing fields in a $388 million deal
with Total SA announced yesterday.  Upstream oil and gas production will increase by more than
25 percent this year, the company said. Gas commitments to the
U.K. secured by Centrica exceed 50 billion pounds, Luff added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  