-- CFTC Poised to Re-Propose Dodd-Frank Block Trade Measure
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-02-23T20:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/cftc-poised-to-re-propose-dodd-frank-block-trade-regulation.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  re-proposed Dodd-Frank Act regulations that would
determine when swaps are big enough that their price and size
don’t need to be reported immediately to the public.  CFTC commissioners voted 3-2 today to seek comment on a
revised measure after  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and financial-industry trade associations said the original
proposal could hamper liquidity and didn’t account for different
types of swaps. Banks told the CFTC they need time to hedge or
lay off risk related to so-called block trades before they are
reported.  “This new proposal also benefits from a review of a
significant amount of market data in the interest rate and
credit swap markets,” CFTC chairman  Gary Gensler  said at the
meeting in Washington.  The CFTC measure would divide interest-rate, credit and
other types of swaps into categories and then determine
thresholds for large trades. The threshold would be set at the
67th percentile for notional value of swaps in a category,
resulting in 6 percent of interest-rate and 6 percent of credit
swaps being considered block trades based on current market
data, CFTC lawyer Carl Kennedy said at the meeting. The
thresholds would be updated at least annually based on
additional data.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in 2010,
required the CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission  to
increase transparency in the $708 trillion global swaps market
after largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit
crisis. The law calls for most swaps to be guaranteed by
clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or other venues.  ‘Important Elements’  Determination of a minimum block trade size is “among the
most important elements” of Dodd-Frank’s derivatives rules,
Jeremy Barnum, a JPMorgan managing director, and Don Thompson,
an associate general counsel for the Wall Street bank, said in a
Jan. 12, 2011, letter to the CFTC and the SEC.  “If too many trades are treated as blocks, then the
objective of increased transparency and greater organization of
the price formation process may be undermined,” Barnum and
Thompson said in their letter. If too few are eligible, the
regulations would reduce liquidity, they wrote.  CFTC Commissioner  Bart Chilton , one of three Democrats on
the five-member panel, said a threshold that is too low might
discourage trading on swap-execution facilities.  Execution Facilities  Chris Ferreri, chairman of the Wholesale Markets Brokers’
Association, Americas, a group of trading venues, said in a
statement after the vote that the CFTC should also reconsider
rules tying block trades to how they must be traded on execution
facilities, whether by electronic or voice broker methods.  The proposal also seeks comment on whether the threshold
should be set at 50 percent instead of 67 percent of the
notional amount, Gensler said at the meeting. A 50 percent
threshold would result in 14 percent of interest rate swaps
being considered blocks, Kennedy said after the meeting.  The CFTC also voted 3-2 to complete Dodd-Frank regulations
setting record-keeping and internal conduct standards for swap
dealers. The rules will require dealers and other large swaps
users to have policies for monitoring traders and preventing
violations of speculation limits set by the CFTC.  “The public demands an end to the conflicts-ridden,
insidious business practices that they’ve witnessed all too
often,” Chilton said at the meeting.  Costs and Benefits  Commissioner  Scott O’Malia  opposed the rule, saying the
agency hasn’t done an adequate cost-benefit analysis.  “Our inability to develop a quantitative analysis, or to
develop a reasonable comparative analysis of legitimate options,
hurts the credibility of this commission and undermines the
quality of our rules,” O’Malia, one of two Republicans on the
panel, said at the meeting.  O’Malia said he will seek an Office of Management and
Budget review of the rule. The CFTC said the rule would have an
annual impact of at least $100 million, according to O’Malia.  The CFTC rules will also require that a chief compliance
officer establish policies and resolve conflicts of interest. A
dealer’s chief compliance officer or chief executive officer
would be required to certify an annual report on the policies.  The agency is planning to hold roundtable meetings on Feb.
29 and March 1 to consider regulatory changes to protect
customers’ collateral in the wake of MF Global Holdings Ltd.’s
collapse, according to two people briefed on the agenda. The
CFTC has been debating regulatory changes, and next week’s
meeting is an early step toward new rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  