-- Chamber of Commerce Targets ‘Wavering Republicans’ on Week Off
-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 2012-02-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/chamber-targets-wavering-republicans-.html
Business groups led by the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce are spending more than $500,000 on
advertising to press Republican lawmakers, on recess this week,
to back a stalled transportation spending bill.  The Chamber, the largest business lobby, and other
organizations are running ads this week in the districts of some
Republican holdouts while members of Congress are home. House
Speaker  John Boehner  last week delayed a vote on a five-year
$260 billion bill, which many members of his party opposed.  “This is an end run around conservative organizations who
are opposed to the bill, by going to the constituents of these
lawmakers directly and making an appeal that it will help the
infrastructure in their district,” Ron Bonjean, a Republican
political strategist who isn’t involved in the effort, said in a
phone interview. Bonjean is a partner in Singer Bonjean
Strategies, a Washington-based public affairs firm.  Some members from districts reliant on public
transportation oppose the House bill’s proposed end to
guaranteed transit funding from gasoline-tax revenue, while
others object to its cost. Debate on the Democrat-controlled
Senate’s two-year $109 billion version has bogged down over
efforts to offer amendments unrelated to transportation.  ‘Not Perfect’  The most recent extension of transportation funding expires
March 31, and the  Congressional Budget Office  has said the
Highway Trust Fund, which pays for road and transit projects,
may be unable to meet its obligations on highway and bridge
projects as soon as October. Gasoline-tax revenue going into the
trust fund has declined as fuel efficiency of cars has improved
and Americans drive less because of higher gas prices, according
to the U.S. Department of Transportation.  “These bills might not be perfect but we’ve got to keep
them moving,” Janet Kavinoky, executive director of
congressional and public affairs for the Washington-based
Chamber, said in a phone interview.  If Congress waits, she said, “we just end up in a series
of never-ending extensions.”  Authorization for the last multiyear transportation funding
bill ran out in 2009. Programs have operated on a series of
short-term extensions since then, making it difficult for state
and local governments and contractors to make long-term plans.  Images of Reagan  The Chamber’s  Americans for Transportation Mobility 
coalition, which includes business and transportation
organizations, is taking the lead with its “Make Transportation
Job One” lobbying campaign. Kavinoky is the coalition’s vice
president.  The $500,000 effort began Feb. 12 and will continue through
Feb. 28, Bobby Maldonado, a spokesman for the Chamber, said. It
started with cable television and radio ads in the Washington
area that ran Feb. 12 and Feb. 13, he said.  The  ads , which feature former President Ronald Reagan
extolling the benefits of transportation investment, began
airing in  Wyoming ,  Idaho ,  Tennessee ,  South Carolina ,  North
Carolina ,  New Hampshire  and  Arkansas  on Feb. 20. They’ll
continue through Feb. 24, Maldonado said in an e-mail.  While the ads are running, coalition representatives are
holding media events with local chambers of commerce and
business groups “to heighten the voice of the business
community and express our desire to see a surface transportation
bill,” Maldonado said by phone.  Tea-Party ‘Bastions’  Those events are scheduled for Dayton, Cincinnati and
Columbus,  Ohio ; Louisville and Fort Mitchell, Kentucky; Houma,
 Louisiana ; Mobile, Alabama; Atlanta; Topeka, Kansas; Omaha,
Nebraska; Boise, Idaho; High Point, North Carolina; and Myrtle
Beach, South Carolina, Maldonado said. They are scheduled
through Feb. 24.  “They’re going after bastions of the Tea Party,”  John Feehery , a Republican strategist, said by phone, referring to
the movement that favors less regulation and  government
spending .  “They’re trying to win the intellectual argument that you
need to have investment in infrastructure,” said Feehery,
president of Quinn Gillespie Communications in  Washington .  The campaign will close with another round of radio spots
in Washington on Feb. 28 as Congress returns, the Chamber’s
Maldonado said. It also includes online ads targeted at
Washington readers running through March 2, he said.  ‘Wavering’ Republicans  Some groups that belong to Americans for Transportation
Mobility are doing their own advertising and events in addition
to participating in the coalition’s media blitz.  Associated General Contractors of America  is spending
$20,000 on ads in the Weekly Standard and the National Review,
opinion journals with conservative audiences, to urge support
for the House bill, Brian Turmail, spokesman for the
construction industry trade group, said by phone.  “We’re trying to reinforce, especially among Republican
members that might be wavering, the need to get a bill done and
why it’s important to the economy and in keeping with their
ideology,” Turmail said.  The Arlington, Virginia-based contractors’ group has had
media events in  Fort Myers ,  Florida ; Syracuse,  New York ; and
Atlanta, and plans more events in Kentucky, Georgia, Wyoming,
New York, Louisiana, Tennessee, Utah, Arizona and Wisconsin, he
said.  Construction Unemployment  “Our message on these events is ‘here’s how much
construction unemployment has declined in this metro area and
one of the ways you can help do something about that is passing
a surface transportation bill’,” Turmail said.  The  American Road and Transportation Builders Association ,
which is also part of the Chamber-led coalition, is pushing its
members to meet with their elected representatives or senior
staff to press the case to move forward, group president Pete
Ruane said by phone. ARTBA is the Washington-based group for
transportation design and construction firms such as  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT)  and  Martin Marietta Materials Inc. (MLM)   In six months, member companies may have to fire
“thousands and thousands of people” if Congress fails to act,
Ruane said. “That’s something I don’t think any of these people
want in their districts.”  The House bill is H.R. 7. The Senate bill is S. 1813.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  