-- Chelsea Therapeutics Northera for Dizziness Wins Backing of FDA Panel
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-02-24T21:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/chelsea-therapeutics-northera-for-dizziness-wins-backing-of-fda-panel.html
Chelsea Therapeutics International
Ltd. (CHTP)  surged the most in almost seven years after the company’s
drug to treat a condition that can cause dizziness in people
with central nervous system disorders won the backing of a U.S.
advisory panel.  Chelsea Therapeutics climbed 61 percent to $3.88 at the
close in  New York , its biggest increase since June 2005. Shares
of the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company had fallen 41
percent in the 12 months before today.  The panel voted 7-4 yesterday in  Silver Spring ,  Maryland ,
that the treatment called Northera, potentially the company’s
first on the market, should be approved. The  Food and Drug
Administration  is scheduled to decide whether to clear the drug
for sale by March 28. The agency doesn’t have to follow the
panel’s recommendation.  A Feb. 21  report  by FDA reviewer Melanie Blank said
Northera, chemically known as droxidopa, shouldn’t be approved
because it may be linked to a life-threatening neurological
disorder and wasn’t proven to work long-term. Panel members who
voted in favor of the drug said the benefits outweigh the risks
because there are few treatments for the debilitating disease.  “I believe this is a very difficult disease,” Michael Lincoff, chairman of the panel and a professor of medicine at
the  Cleveland Clinic , said during the meeting. “In the end
there is no question in my mind this drug is efficacious in a
subset of patients and the risks are not unpredictable, they’re
treatable.”  About 180,000 patients in the U.S. suffer from the blood
pressure drop Northera aims to treat known as neurogenic
orthostatic hypotension, Keith Schmidt, vice president of sales
and marketing for Chelsea Therapeutics, said on Nov. 2 during a
call with analysts. Patients can become dizzy and even faint.  Available in Japan  Northera is available in  Japan  as part of a marketing
agreement with  Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma (4506)  Co. and generates
annual revenue of $50 million, Chelsea Therapeutics said on its
website. The FDA is concerned that the drug has been associated
with 28 reports of a life-threatening neurological disorder
known as neuroleptic malignant syndrome in patients in Japan,
the agency’s Blank told the panel. The reports don’t contain
enough detail to determine whether the condition is related to
the drug, she said.  No incidents of the disorder have been reported in the
company’s studies, Chelsea Therapeutics said in a Feb. 13
statement.  In addition, 19 deaths occurred in Chelsea Therapeutic-
sponsored trials on Northera, nine of which may plausibly be
associated with the drug, FDA reviewer Blank told the panel.  Japanese Data  The Japanese data should be discounted because the
country’s health system is different and because the reports
aren’t detailed, panel member Julia Lewis, professor of medicine
at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville,  Tennessee ,
said during the meeting.  The company’s first trial examining Northera failed to show
the drug worked, according to the FDA staff report. Chelsea
Therapeutics then changed the endpoint that would measure
success of another trial, which determined the treatment was
effective. The endpoint changed from one set of questions asking
patients about their ability to stand and walk to another set
assessing a wider range of symptoms. The medicine would have
shown same results even if Chelsea Therapeutics stuck with the
first endpoint, the staff report said.  A third, longer trial failed to show a difference between
patients who took Northera and those that took a placebo after
three months with a two-week withdraw period, suggesting
positive effects of the drug may wear off, the staff report
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  