-- China’s Stock Rally to End as ‘Fine-Tuning’ Policies Disappoint, BofA Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-23T07:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/china-s-stock-rally-to-end-as-fine-tuning-policies-disappoint-bofa-says.html
China’s stocks may fall as much as
13 percent by the end of the year as the central bank’s “fine-
tuning” of monetary policies won’t be enough to offset an
economic slowdown, according to  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   The government needs to cut interest rates or relax curbs
in the  property market  to sustain this year’s 9.6 percent
rebound for the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , David Cui, chief China
strategist at the Merrill Lynch unit, said in an interview in
its Shanghai office yesterday. Cui, 43, who has been bearish on
China equities since May 2010, said the Shanghai gauge may drop
to 2,100 by year-end. It rose 0.9 percent to 2,403.59 yesterday.  “If the government only does fine tuning, it’s not
sufficient to remove the major overhangs behind the poor market
performance over the past two years or so, including a lack of a
new and sustainable growth driver and the banking system’s bad
debts,” said Cui. “The markets will likely remain lukewarm.”  China’s stocks have rebounded this year on speculation the
government will loosen monetary policies to stem a decline in
economic growth triggered by  Europe ’s debt crisis and a slumping
property market. The Shanghai gauge tumbled 33 percent over the
past two years, making it the worst performer among the world’s
10 biggest markets. The People’s Bank of China increased
 interest rates  and lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios last year
to tame consumer prices that rose 4.5 percent last month, up
from 4.1 percent in December.  “Inflation is still a threat,” Cui said. “That is one of
the reasons central bank hasn’t been more forthcoming with
loosening.”  ‘Still a Risk’  Concerns about China’s slowdown increased after January
data showed exports and imports falling for the first time in
two years, new lending was the lowest for that month in five
years and M2, the broad measure of  money supply , grew the least
in more than a decade. The expansion may be cut almost in half
if Europe’s debt crisis worsens, the  International Monetary Fund 
said in a Feb. 6 report.  Euro-area finance ministers this week approved a 130
billion-euro ($172 billion) package for  Greece  by tapping into
European Central Bank profits and convincing investors to
provide more debt relief to the country.  Fitch Ratings  cut
Greece’s credit grade two levels to ‘C’ from ‘CCC’ after the
country got approval to proceed with a bond exchange that will
reduce its debt burden and avert the collapse of the economy.  Europe’s debt problems are “still a risk,” Cui said.
“The ECB took away the short-term  liquidity risk  but didn’t
solve the solvency issue.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the nation needs to start “fine-
tuning” economic policies this quarter, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported Feb. 12, fueling speculation that the
government will soon ease policy further to preserve growth in
the world’s second-biggest economy.  Stock Forecasters  Bank of America joins  China  International Capital Corp. in
predicting losses for China’s stocks this year. Twelve of 13
brokerages surveyed by Bloomberg forecast equities will rise
this year, with Guotai Junan Securities Co., the only major firm
to foresee the two-year slump, predicting a 36 percent gain. The
nation’s shares haven’t posted three straight years of declines
since the  Shanghai Stock Exchange  opened in 1990.  The Shanghai Composite rose 0.3 percent today, extending
gains into a sixth week, the longest winning streak since
November 2010, after the government cut reserve-requirement
ratios last weekend. It was the second reduction in three months
and prompted Citigroup Inc. to say the Shanghai gauge may catch
up with global equity markets if the looser policies are
“confirmed.”  The  Shanghai gauge  trades at 10 times estimated earnings,
compared with 10.7 for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. The
developing nations’ index has jumped 16 percent jump this year,
while the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies
that are publicly traded in  Hong Kong  rose 18 percent.  Go Defensive  “The reserve ratio cut is largely technical and we don’t
really read that as loosening,” Cui said. “The stronger
indicator will be M2 growth, loan growth or a cut in interest
rates.”  Bank of America, ranked first for Asia research in 2011 by
Institutional Investor magazine, said the central bank will
reduce the reserve ratio twice more this year, while leaving
interest rates unchanged after raising them three times in 2011.  Cui favors  “defensive” (SHSZ300)  stocks in industries such as
consumer staples, utilities and telecom, while recommending
investors avoid banks, property, and construction materials.  “The consensus is a soft landing but I am concerned about
some growth-related risks, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  