-- China Central Bank Study Urges Relaxing Curbs on Capital Flows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-23T08:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/china-central-bank-study-urges-relaxing-curbs-on-capital-flows.html
China has a “strategic
opportunity” now to relax restrictions on capital flows to take
advantage of lower values of Western companies and elevate the
yuan’s role in international trade, a central bank study said.  Opening the capital account would ease overseas investment
by Chinese companies and their purchases of technology and
resources, the  People’s Bank of China  publication Financial News
reported today, citing a study by the statistics department. The
risks now are relatively small, according to the report, whose
lead researcher is Sheng Songcheng, the department head.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  is encouraging the wider use of the yuan
in international trade and investment to curb reliance on the
 U.S. dollar  while maintaining some controls on funds flowing in
and out of China. Officials have said they want to gradually
achieve the yuan’s full convertibility under the capital account
by 2015.  The government is “quite keen now on pushing the RMB as a
global currency,” Murtaza Syed, the International Monetary
Fund’s resident representative in Beijing, said yesterday, using
another term for the yuan. “If you don’t allow the RMB that’s
accumulating abroad to flow back into  China , to be able to
invest in assets here, you will never fulfill the potential of
the RMB as a global currency.”  Values of Western companies are relatively low at present,
which provides a “rare” market opportunity for Chinese firms,
the study said. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index, even with an 8
percent rally this year, is down 34 percent since July 2007 amid
the global financial crisis and the continent’s sovereign-debt
turmoil.  Opening the capital account also would expand investment
options for households, helping them accumulate wealth and
increase consumption, it said. The process of liberalizing the
capital account should be “proactively” pushed forward while
being handled with “prudence,” the study said.  “The right time window for opening the capital account may
not arrive at all” if China waits until changes to the
interest-rate and exchange-rate systems are made and the
“conditions for yuan internationalization are ripe,” the
report said.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  