-- China Dominates U.S. in London Olympics Test Event for Diving
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-02-23T11:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/china-dominates-u-s-in-london-olympics-test-event-for-diving.html
With 155 days to go before the start
of the  London Olympics ,  China  is dominating the diving pool.  After three days of competition, China has won all four
events at the  Diving World Cup  in London. Qin Kai and Luo Yutong
won the men’s synchronized 3-meter springboard on the first day.
Chen Ruolin, a double gold medalist at the 2008 Beijing
Olympics, took the women’s 10 meter platform event on the second
day. Last night, Olympic and world champion He Chong dominated
the men’s 3-meter springboard, before Chen paired up with Wang
Hao to win the women’s synchronized 10-meter platform. The meet,
which finishes Feb. 26, has eight events in total.  “Their training regime is just incredible,” U.S. diver
 Laura Ryan  said yesterday in an interview at the new  London 
Olympic Aquatics Centre. “They’ve just been building for a long
time.”  Ryan finished tenth with partner Amy Cozad in the women’s
10-meter synchronized platform finals.  China, which first competed in diving at the 1984 Los
Angeles Games, only trails the U.S. on the sport’s all-time
Olympic medals table. The Chinese won a record seven diving
golds in Beijing and swept all ten gold medals at the 2011 world
championships.  “We train very hard and have high standards,” Chen Ruolin
told reporters. “I am happy to have won, but I cannot think
about the Olympics yet. I will keep practicing.”  Britain’s Tonia Couch said other competitors have
difficulty keeping up with the Chinese divers.  Fantastic  “They’re just fantastic,” said Couch, who won a bronze
medal in the women’s 10-meter synchronized platform finals with
partner Sarah Barrow yesterday. “We don’t try to beat them: we
just try to beat ourselves, try to beat our score that we’ve
just done.”  The six-day FINA Diving World Cup, the last qualification
opportunity for the London Games, has drawn 220 athletes from 40
countries. It also doubles up as a test event for 2012
organizers.  Just like during last week’s track cycling event at the
nearby Olympic Velodrome, the crowd cheered loudly whenever a
British athlete was performing.  “They are so good here,” Jack Laugher, a former junior
world champion diver from Britain, told reporters. “There are
thousands shouting especially when you do a good dive. It makes
you feel really, really happy.”  Construction Challenges  The  Aquatics Centre , which took four years to build and is
located next to the Olympic Stadium, was designed by Iraqi-born
and London-based architect  Zaha Hadid , the first woman to win
the Pritzker Architecture Prize. The building was “one of the
most complex engineering and construction challenges” at
London’s Olympic Park, local organizers said in a press release.  The 269 million pound ($421 million) venue, described by
Hadid in a Bloomberg interview last year as “some sort of sea
life creature,” has a wave-like roof with a longer single span
than Heathrow’s Terminal 5. Once the Games are over, its two
temporary wings will be taken off and it will be turned into a
facility for the local community, schools and clubs as well as
for elite swimmers and swimming competitions.  “It’s definitely incredible, it’s not like any other pool
we’ve ever been in,” U.S. diver Amy Cozad, who praised the
natural light inside the pool, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the Olympic Aquatics Centre through the
London sports desk at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at  celser@bloomberg.net  