-- Christie Challenged by New Jersey Minimum-Wage Increase Democrats Propose
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-02-23T18:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/christie-challenged-as-n-j-democrats-seek-higher-minimum-wage.html
New Jersey Democrats, less than a
week after Republican Governor  Chris Christie  vetoed their bill
to make same-sex marriage legal, are pushing another priority, a
higher minimum wage.  New Jersey would join at least eight U.S. states raising
the minimum hourly wage for most workers this year. A bill
lawmakers advanced out of the Assembly Labor Committee today
would boost the rate to $8.50 an hour from $7.25 in July, and
starting next year would tie future increases to U.S. Consumer
Price Index changes.  Democrats, who control both legislative chambers, put a
priority this year on the wage issue, same-sex marriage and a
tax increase for millionaires. Christie, 49 and in his first
term, rejected the marriage bill Feb. 17 and yesterday stood
fast in opposing higher taxes on the wealthy. The governor said
last month he would consider a higher minimum pay rate, while
saying job growth was more important, even $7.25-an-hour jobs.  “I am not yet focused on the  minimum-wage  situation and
what we may or may not do,” Christie told reporters yesterday
in Palisades Park. “One thing I can guarantee you of is that
nothing will be done unless I’m a player at the table to discuss
it.”  “So far, the Democrats have just decided to operate on
their own,” the governor said. “We’ve seen this before -- when
they operate on their own, things get vetoed.”  Agenda Key  A higher minimum wage “should be a key part of the
economic recovery agenda,” said  Tom Hester , a spokesman for
Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, a Democrat from  East Orange  who
sponsored the bill to raise the rate. The measure passed by a
vote of 6-2-1, with two Republicans voting against it and one
abstaining, and is headed to the full Assembly.  “This is economic stimulus and a recognition that
thousands of households in  New Jersey  are struggling to subsist
on minimum-wage jobs that do not allow them to support their
families,” Oliver told the committee today.  Christie on Feb. 21 introduced a $32.1 billion budget for
fiscal 2013, which begins in July, that seeks personal and
business income-tax cuts and the largest public-pension
contribution in state history. It relies on a 7.3 percent rise
in revenue, which would be the biggest gain since 2007.  Ahead of Neighbors  New Jersey residents had the third-highest income per
capita among states in 2010, at $51,167, trailing only
Massachusetts and  Connecticut , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Garden State’s minimum wage last increased in
2009, when it climbed 1.4 percent from $7.15.  A rate of $8.50 would put New Jersey ahead of neighboring
New York,  Pennsylvania , and  Delaware , which all require the
$7.25 federal minimum, and would edge out Connecticut, where the
state-set rate is now $8.25, according to the U.S. Labor
Department’s website. The Assembly’s Labor Committee will hear
testimony today on the bill in the state Capitol in Trenton.  The New Jersey Minimum Wage Advisory Commission, a five-
member appointed panel that reports annually, in January
recommended in a 3-2 vote to keep the pay rate unchanged this
year. The panel cited an economy still recovering from the
longest recession since World War II, and a  jobless rate  which
has been 9 percent or higher since May 2009.  An increase “may put the state at a competitive
disadvantage,” leading some employers to add fewer jobs or
consider moving to lower-cost states, the panel said in a
report. It also cited the probable effect of pushing up consumer
prices.  Hourly Workers  For the 12 months ended September 2011, an average 39,700
people in New Jersey were paid the minimum rate, according to
the panel, or about 2.3 percent of all hourly wage workers.  The current minimum wage isn’t a livable standard in a
high-cost state such as New Jersey, Lakisha Williams, a 29-year-
old single mother from  Newark , told lawmakers today.  Williams, a high-school graduate, said she earns $290 a
week working full time as a wheelchair assistant at Newark
Liberty International Airport. She said she receives Medicaid
health coverage, rent assistance and  food stamps .  “I’m the parent of a 12-year-old daughter, and she is very
expensive,” Williams said. “She’s getting older now and it’s
to the point where I have to sit her down and sometimes I have
to cry and tell her that mommy’s doing the best she can.”  Basic Standard  The state should follow New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s
lead, according to Jon Whiten, a spokesman for New Jersey Public
Policy Perspective, a nonprofit organization in Trenton that
focuses on “progressive policies,” according to its website.
Bloomberg advocates a higher minimum.  “It’s actually good for the broader economic climate to
ensure a basic standard of living for those who are working
hard,” Whiten said yesterday by e-mail. The mayor is founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  New York  Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan
Democrat, introduced a bill last month that would raise the
state’s minimum wage to $8.50 an hour and index future increases
to inflation. Governor  Andrew Cuomo , also a Democrat, has said
he supports the concept while he hasn’t decided whether to back
Silver’s bill.  Opponents such as the New Jersey Business and Industry
Association, a 21,500-member lobbying group in Trenton, say it’s
the wrong time for a mandated increase. For a fourth straight
year, more employers reported declining sales, earnings,
spending and hiring compared with those reporting gains, the
organization said in a survey released in September.  Bad Timing  “We’re still struggling to get out of a recession and
improve the business climate in the state,” Stefanie Riehl, an
assistant vice president of employment and labor policy for the
group, said by telephone.  Joe Olivo, president of Perfect Printing in Moorestown,
said opponents of the increase have been demonized. He said his
family has owned the company for 33 years, and that during the
height of the economic slowdown in 2008 and 2009, he was forced
to fire nine workers. Four of the firm’s 48 workers would get
raises after a minimum-wage increase, he said.  “Everybody has their own financial difficulties at my
company,” Olivo, 46, told reporters after testifying before
lawmakers. “No one wants to come out against somebody and say
they don’t feel they should be paid more. I don’t feel like
that. I just worry this will hurt the workers they’re trying to
protect and our businesses.”  Christie has voiced concern that an increase may lead
employers to cut workers’ hours and put off hiring. He has said
he recognizes a higher rate may be a good thing and he wants to
be involved in the discussions about the policy.  “I’d love to sit down and talk to them,” said Christie,
referring to Democratic leaders. “My mind is not set on this
issue, but I’m not going to be persuaded in silence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  