-- Christie Says Obama ’Using’ Buffett
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-02-23T18:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/christie-says-obama-using-buffett.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
said President  Barack Obama  is “using” such people as
billionaire investor Warren Buffett as tools to push his  tax
policy .  Christie, who has endorsed  Mitt Romney  for president, also
said during a round of television interviews today that the
former Massachusetts governor needs to show more emotion if he
is to win the Republican primary.  Christie’s comments about Obama came after he said this
week that Buffett, who has called for the nation’s wealthiest
people to pay more taxes, should “just write a check and shut
up.” Buffett, chief executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway
Inc., has said he pays 17.4 percent on taxable income. His
secretary,  Debbie Bosanek , and other staff members pay an
average 34 percent rate.  “You’re using this guy, you’re using his secretary --who’s
one of the best-paid secretaries in America, apparently --you’re
using these people to try to make a point about redistribution
of wealth,” Christie, 49, a Republican midway through his first
term, said during an interview on “Fox & Friends”.  Obama has called for a minimum rate of 30 percent for those
with incomes of $1 million or more and dubbed the idea “the
Buffett Rule.” The president has pointed to the different  rates 
of Buffett and his secretary as an example of an unfair  tax
code , and Bosanek was at his State of the Union address last
month. Recent presidents have often had guests at their speeches
to make policy points.  Buffett Rule  Carrie Kizer, Buffett’s assistant, didn’t return an e-mail
seeking comment on Christie’s statements.  “ Warren Buffett  is widely respected and he is simply
expressing his view that a billionaire like him should not pay a
lower effective  tax rate  than his secretary,” White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  said in Miami, where Obama is giving a
speech about energy and raising campaign funds. “I guess
Governor Christie disagrees with that.”  Christie on Feb. 21 introduced a $32.1 billion spending
plan that includes a 10 percent income-tax cut for every New
Jersey resident, business-tax reductions and a $1.1 billion
pension contribution, the biggest in state history.  Michigan Primary  During today’s media appearances, Christie was asked mostly
about national political issues. He said a loss for Romney in
 Michigan ’s Feb. 28 Republican primary would be “bad news”
though the candidate wouldn’t be in trouble. Romney’s father was
a Michigan governor and chairman of now-defunct American Motors
Corp., and his son has criticized the federal bailout of the
 auto industry , crucial to that state’s economy.  There was no “knockout winner” in the Republican debate
last night in Arizona, Christie said on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe”
program.  Rick Santorum  wasn’t prepared and turned in an
“awful” performance, he said.  Romney’s “reserved” nature is not playing well with
voters, and he must show his emotions and passion in order to
win the primary, Christie told Don Imus.  There is about a 10 percent chance of a brokered Republican
nominating convention, said Christie, who added that he was
certain the nominee would be Romney. The term refers to a
selection process where no clear majority candidate emerges
after an initial delegation vote, and the nomination is the
result of deals among party leaders.  Christie last year turned down entreaties from party
leaders and donors to enter the Republican presidential primary
race. He is the top choice of Republicans if the party nominates
its presidential candidate at a brokered convention, according
to a Quinnipiac University poll released  yesterday .  The governor, asked by Imus what he would do if leaders
pass on Romney, said he would have “some thinking to do.”  “I don’t have an idea at the moment,” Christie said.
“Listen, if it gets to that point, you know me. I’m not a
wallflower. I’ll take a position, but I don’t have one now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  