-- Citigroup Exits Investment in Indian Mortgage Firm With $1.9 Billion Sale
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h ,   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-02-24T06:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/citigroup-to-exit-india-s-housing-development-with-2-1-billion-stake-sale.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  exited an almost
seven-year-old investment in  India ’s largest mortgage lender,
selling its stake in Housing Development Finance Corp. for 95.5 
billion rupees ($1.9 billion).  The U.S. bank  sold  145.3 million shares at 657.56 rupees
apiece, it said in a statement today. That’s a 6.2 percent
discount to HDFC’s closing price yesterday. The sale resulted in
a pretax gain of $1.1 billion for Citigroup, the release showed.
Citigroup had offered the stock at 630 rupees to 703.55 rupees,
according to a term sheet obtained by Bloomberg News. HDFC
shares slipped as much as 6.3 percent today.  Citigroup joins European and U.S. banks including  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in selling Asian
assets as global rules for higher risk buffers force lenders to
boost capital. Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. lender by
assets, also plans to raise as much as $20 billion in debt this
year to make payments on a 2008 emergency credit program.  “Banks globally are currently under pressure to boost
capital, and asset disposals make sense as the current
environment makes fundraising from  capital markets  difficult,”
said Lewis Wan, Hong Kong-based chief investment officer of
Pride Investments Group Ltd., which manages $250 million of
assets. “The fundamentals of U.S. banks and European banks are
relatively weaker than that of Asian banks.”  Asian Asset Selldown  HDFC (HDFC)  fell as low as 657.50 rupees today in Mumbai trading
and was down 4.6 percent at 11:21 a.m. local time. Before today,
the stock had gained 7.6 percent this year, compared with a 17
percent advance in the  BSE India Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   Citigroup said in June it was reducing its stake in Mumbai-
based HDFC to 9.9 percent from 11.4 percent, in preparation for
meeting the Basel III capital rules.  The latest sale is part of Citigroup’s “ongoing capital
planning efforts,” the New York-based bank said.  HSBC,  Europe ’s largest bank, this week told customers it
was withdrawing from consumer banking in  Japan  and closing down
six branches. The London-based bank was seeking buyers for its
Premier unit, which targets wealthy individuals in the country,
three people familiar with the matter said on Jan. 25. The bank
has also sold assets in Thailand and Korea.  In November,  Goldman Sachs (GS)  raised $1.1 billion selling
shares of Beijing-based Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd., the world’s most profitable bank. Bank of America Corp.
said it would sell 10.4 billion shares of China Construction
Bank Corp. the same month, for a profit of about $1.8 billion.  Carlyle Group LP divested 20 million shares in HDFC for 677
rupees apiece, or about 13.5 billion rupees, a person with
knowledge of the sale said on Feb. 1. The price was at a
discount of 3 percent to HDFC’s Jan. 31 closing price.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  