-- Clinton Calls On Somali Interim Leaders to Go by August or Face Sanctions
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-02-23T18:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/clinton-calls-on-somali-interim-leaders-to-go-or-face-sanctions.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said the interim Somali government will face sanctions
if it doesn’t step down at the end of its mandate in August.  A communique issued at the end of an international
conference on Somalia in London today said there “must be no
further extensions” to the transitional government’s mandate
and agreed steps to be taken against piracy and terrorism
emanating from the war ravaged horn of Africa country.  “The Transitional Federal Government was always meant to
be just that, transitional,” Clinton said during the meeting.
“It is past time for that transition to occur, and for Somalia
to have a stable government.” She said that “attempts to
obstruct progress and maintain the broken status quo will not be
tolerated.”  The U.S. will encourage the international community to
impose further sanctions, including travel bans and asset
freezes, on all those “who seek to undermine Somalia’s peace
and security,” Clinton said. “If you are standing in the way,
you should be held accountable.”  Clinton joined representatives of more than 40 countries
and international organizations taking part in the conference,
hosted by U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , to discuss how to
restore stability to Somalia. The meeting, attended by Somalia’s
interim president, Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed, focused on
promoting security and political processes as well as combating
terrorism and piracy.  ‘Fragile Progress’  “After two decades of bloodshed and some of the worst
poverty on earth, there are the first signs of fragile progress
in Somalia,” Cameron told reporters after the conference.
“When pirates are disrupting vital trade routes and kidnapping
tourists, and when radicalism is poisoning young minds and
breeding terrorism, it is in all our interests to support the
Somali people in taking back their country.”  Somalia has been wracked by civil war since the ouster of
Mohamed Siad Barre, the former dictator, in 1991. Al-Shabaab, a
militant group linked to al-Qaeda, controls most of southern and
central  Somalia  and has been fighting the president’s
administration in the capital, Mogadishu, in a bid to establish
an Islamic state.  Somalia’s interim prime minister, Abdiweli Mohamed Ali,
called for “targeted” air strikes on al-Shabaab and action
against the “piracy” of illegal fishing and dumping of toxic
waste in Somali waters.  ‘Global Problem’  “We welcome targeted air strikes against al-Qaeda in
Somalia, it is not a Somali problem, it’s a global problem,” he
said as he stood alongside Cameron at the press conference.
“But we have got to avoid any death or injury to the people of
Somalia.”  The United Nations Security Council yesterday authorized an
increase in the African Union peacekeeping mission, which
includes soldiers from Uganda, Burundi and Djibouti, to 17,731
troops from 12,000. Kenya deployed troops in southern Somalia in
October in pursuit of al-Shabaab.  Cameron, who would not be drawn on the possibility of air
strikes, said the emphasis is on the world community coming
together to tackle the threat.  “There is a military campaign that’s taking place against
al-Shabaab,” he said. “This is not about western troops
getting involved in a campaign in any country, this is about the
countries of the world and the institutions of the international
community coming together to support the people of Somalia.”  Charcoal Ban  The UN resolution includes an international ban on imports
of charcoal from Somalia, a major source of funds for al-
Shabaab, which sells it largely to Gulf countries and  Saudi
Arabia , according to a U.S. official who spoke on condition of
anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to speak to the media.  Clinton urged the international community to begin
implementing the ban immediately. “We must keep the pressure on
al-Shabaab so that its grip on Somalia continues to weaken,”
she said, noting that the illicit charcoal trade also harms the
environmental and threatens the country’s tenuous food security.  In support of those efforts, Clinton said the Obama
administration would provide $64 million in humanitarian
assistance to Somalia and other Horn of Africa countries,
bringing total U.S. emergency aid to the region since 2011 up to
more than $934 million. More than $211 million of that is
dedicated to programs in Somalia.  More than 3,500 Somalis are actives as pirates, the UN said
Feb. 16, while a further 1,000 are in custody in 20 countries.
Somali pirate attacks rose to a record 237 in 2011, with ransoms
of $160 million paid to release 31 hijacked vessels, according
to a One Earth Future Foundation report. Piracy cost the
shipping industry and governments $6.9 billion last year,
including $2.7 billion in extra fuel to speed up through the
seas off Somalia and $1.3 billion on military operations,
according to the foundation.  There will be a follow-up conference in Istanbul in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  