-- Colombia Inflation Bets Show Eight Interest Rate Increases Aren’t Enough
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-02-23T20:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/colombia-inflation-bets-show-eight-rate-increases-aren-t-enough.html
Colombian  inflation  is poised to
accelerate to the upper end of the central bank’s target range
even after eight interest-rate increases in the past year aimed
at holding down consumer prices, credit-market measures show.  The gap between yields on government inflation-indexed
bonds due in 2013 and similar-maturity fixed-rate debt, a gauge
of annual consumer price increase expectations, stood at 3.9
percentage points today and reached an 11-month high of 4.07 on
Feb. 17. The break-even rate has risen 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, since policy makers unexpectedly raised the
benchmark rate 25 basis points to 5 percent on Jan. 30.  Policy makers meeting tomorrow will lift the  overnight
lending rate  to 5.25 percent as the fastest economic growth
since 2006 threatens to quicken annual inflation from 3.54
percent in January, according to 21 of 32 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Banco de la Republica’s interest-rate increases come
as central banks in  Brazil ,  Chile  and  Russia  cut borrowing costs
to safeguard against a global economic slump.  “The risk is for inflation to spiral out of control,”
said Felipe Campos, the head analyst at Alianza Valores
brokerage in Bogota. “Banco de la Republica will continue to
react, especially as inflation expectations remain near or above
the top end” of the 2 percent to 4 percent target, he said.  Trading in three-month interest-rate swaps reflect bets
that policy makers will next raise rates by 25 basis points in
March while a majority of economists in a central bank survey
published Feb. 10 forecast no change this month and an increase
to 5.5 percent by year-end. Eleven analysts in the Bloomberg
survey predict no change at tomorrow’s meeting.  Investment  In the statement accompanying last month’s decision, policy
makers cited rapidly-expanding credit, “strong” growth and
rising inflation expectations for the surprise increase, which
was forecast by only one of 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  In a Feb. 15  presentation  titled “Why did the board raise
 interest rates ,” central bank co-director Juan Jose Echavarria
said inflation expectations are “little anchored” and high
foreign direct investment, which is helping fuel growth,
“depends little on dynamics in the world economy.”  Policy makers forecast gross domestic product growth in
Colombia may be as high as 6 percent this year after a similar
expansion predicted for last year. GDP expanded 7.7 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier, a pace that even
surprised them according to last month’s statement.  Foreign Investment  The government forecasts  foreign direct investment  will
rise to $16 billion this year, from a record $14.5 billion last
year, as companies search for oil, coal and gold in areas that
were once overrun by guerrillas and considered too dangerous to
explore.  Annual inflation has decelerated for three months after
breaching the upper limit of the 2 percent to 4 percent target
range in October for the first time since 2009.  Policy makers are focused on reaching the mid-point of the
target, Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry, who is also
president of the central bank board, said in a Feb. 9 interview.  Colombia  needs to continue raising borrowing costs to ward
off inflation as the economy shows few signs of slowing, said
Daniel Nino, the head analyst at Bancolombia SA, the nation’s
biggest bank.  “As things are going, growth will surpass even the most
optimist of forecasts,” Nino said. “The possibility that the
economy will grow more this year than last is rising and that is
something no one had in the cards.”  Peso, Carry  As higher interest rates risk pressuring more gains in the
peso, Banco de la Republica will likely refrain from raising
interest rates further this year and instead adopt measures to
curb lending such as higher  reserve requirements , said Carmen Salcedo, an analyst at financial services holding company Corp.
Financiera Colombiana, known as Corficolombiana.  Agriculture Minister Juan Camilo Restrepo said today
interest rates are “high enough” and asked central bankers not
to raise them further as the move will fuel gains in the local
currency that is already hurting farm exports.  In a bid to ease gains in the peso, which has climbed 9.1
percent this year, the central bank began buying a minimum of
$20 million daily in the foreign-exchange market for at least
three months beginning Feb. 6.  Banco de Republica would like to see a weaker and more
stable peso, Echavarria said in the Feb. 15 presentation. The
peso, the third-best performer in the past six months among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, rose 0.3
percent today to 1,776.44 per  U.S. dollar .  Rate Comparison  “In an external context of low interest rates, by raising
rates you make the carry trade even more attractive,” Salcedo
said. The carry trade refers to the practice in which investors
borrow funds in a country with lower borrowing costs and buy
assets where interest rates are higher.  Colombia’s interest rate compares to near zero in the U.S.  While acknowledging the risks of slower worldwide growth
and “the not yet dissipated risk of  Greece  not paying its
debt,” policy makers cited domestic economic factors as the
motivation for January’s increase, according to  minutes  of the
meeting.  “Excessive credit growth and the persistence of low real
interest rates might become a source of financial unbalances
with negative effects on the sustainability of economic
growth,” the central bankers said in the minutes.  Colombia’s central bank will need to follow through with
more interest rate increases as its “hawkish” comments spark a
surge in inflation expectations, said Francisco Chaves, a
strategist at Bogota-based brokerage Corredores Asociados SA.  “The market was very focused on what is happening abroad,
almost to the point where we pretty much ignored third-quarter
growth,” Chaves said. “The central bank’s hawkish tone, which
shined a light on inflation risks coming from rising demand,
changed investors’ mind set.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  