-- Commerzbank Plans at Least $1.3 Billion Capital Boost as Profit Increases
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-02-23T15:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/commerzbank-plans-capital-boost-as-net-climbs.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-
largest lender, will boost its financial strength by asking
investors to swap hybrid capital instruments trading below face
value for new shares.  The measures could boost core Tier 1 capital by more than 1
billion euros ($1.33 billion), the lender said. Concern about
the supply of new equity drove the  shares  lower, even as
Commerzbank posted earnings that beat analysts’ estimates today.  European leaders ordered banks to raise capital by June 30
in a bid to restore confidence in the industry amid  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis. Commerzbank is now almost two-thirds of
the way to meeting its target with a mix of retained earnings,
asset sales and capital management. While the swap isn’t part of
that package, it will speed the process and help prepare
Commerzbank for Basel III rules on capital, the lender said.  “The capital measures give the lender an additional buffer
in case of any surprises in the market, which remains
challenging,” said Michael Seufert, an analyst at Norddeutsche
Landesbank in Hanover, who has a “hold” rating on the stock.
“The operating figures were positive.”  The shares  slumped  as much as 9.6 percent, and were down 6
percent to 1.95 euros at 4:15 p.m. in Frankfurt trading.  Fourth-quarter net income rose to 316 million euros from
257 million euros in the year-earlier period, Commerzbank said.
Full-year profit shrank 55 percent to 638 million euros, beating
the 577 million-euro average estimate of seven analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. The bank said 2011 operating profit at the core
bank more than doubled to 4.5 billion euros.  ‘Spanish Inquisition’  Commerzbank wrote down the value of its Greek sovereign bond
holdings to 26 percent of their value, including 670 million
euros of losses for the fourth quarter. The bank’s public-
finance unit reduced its risks related to  Greece , Ireland,
 Italy ,  Portugal  and  Spain  to 12.3 billion euros from 16.8
billion euros last year.  Greece won a bailout on Feb. 21 that includes a plan for
private creditors forgiving 53.5 percent of their principal and
swapping their remaining holdings for new Greek  government bonds 
and notes from the European Financial Stability Facility. The
agreement followed three months of talks that sought to keep the
transaction voluntary and avoid triggering credit-default swaps.  “I expect this transaction to be implemented and that
Commerzbank will take part,” Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  said at a press conference today. “I fundamentally
have conceptual problems with a ‘voluntary’ haircut. The
voluntary nature of this is about as voluntary as a confession
during the Spanish Inquisition.”  Shoulder Debt  Greece will still find it difficult to shoulder the reduced
debt in the long run if it doesn’t implement “far-reaching
reforms,”  Joerg Kraemer , Commerzbank’s chief economist, said
this week.  Lenders across Europe posted Greek writedowns in their
earnings reports today. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said
today that it took a sovereign-debt impairment of 1.1 billion
pounds ($1.73 billion) as it wrote off Greek securities.  Commerzbank, which posted the biggest decline last year in
Germany’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX) , has recouped some of its losses
this year. Its shares have risen almost 50 percent in 2012,
beating the 18 percent advance of the 43-member Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index over the same period.  Blessing has spent three years trying to free the lender
from  government aid  needed to survive fallout from the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Eurohypo Challenge  The German lender still has to divest its Eurohypo public
finance and commercial real estate funding unit by the end of
2014, a condition of the bailout.  Eric Strutz , the company’s
chief financial officer, said in August that a sale would be
difficult because of funding issues at the unit.  Eurohypo tapped the  European Central Bank ’s three-year
loans to reduce the unit’s funding dependence on Commerzbank,
Strutz told analysts on a conference call today.  The European Commission, the European Union’s regulatory
arm, hasn’t informed Commerzbank of “any steps forward with
Eurohypo yet, and therefore we just wanted to increase our
strategic flexibility,” Strutz said on the conference call.
Commerzbank won’t use ECB funds to buy sovereign debt, he said.  The ECB awarded 489 billion euros in 1,134-day loans on
Dec. 21 to keep credit flowing to the economy as Europe’s debt
crisis made institutions wary of each other and drove up
borrowing costs.  Capital Increase  “The only thing you could envision, and we’re looking into
that from a risk-management perspective, is whether it does make
sense to have the contingent currency risks mitigated,” Strutz
said. “That is not a funding issue.”  The capital increase, by means of a contribution in kind,
will equal a maximum of 10 percent minus one share of
Commerzbank’s current subscribed capital, the Frankfurt-based
bank said in a statement today.  The capital increase comes five weeks after Blessing
unveiled a plan to raise capital without asking German taxpayers
for second bailout. Commerzbank has made more progress than
anticipated Jan. 19, leaving a 1.8 billion-euro gap at the end
of the year to close out of the original 5.3 billion-euro
shortfall, the company said today.  Risk-Weighted Assets  The lender said it plans to cut 15 billion euros of risk-
weighted assets in the first half after 19 billion euros last
year. Commerzbank has sought to strengthen its finances by
selling assets, retaining earnings and modifying its  capital
management . The company also bought back hybrid instruments
trading below face value last year to boost core Tier 1 capital.  Income from the purchases buoyed fourth quarter profit by
735 million euros, the company said. Investors approached
Commerzbank to discuss swapping hybrid instruments for shares
after that transaction, Blessing said today.  Hybrid capital combines aspects of debt and equity and
allows borrowers to cancel interest and principal payments
without triggering a default.  The exchange offer period starts Feb. 23 and is expected to
end on March 2, according to the statement. The principal amount
of the capital instruments included in the offer totals about
3.16 billion euros, Commerzbank said.  Germany ’s Soffin bank rescue fund will maintain its  25
percent stake  in Commerzbank by converting a portion of its
silent participation into shares. Silent participation is a form
of non-voting capital used in Germany that is not accepted by
the European Banking Authority as core Tier 1 capital.  Commerzbank intends to take advantage of a “favorable
market opportunity to further improve its  capital structure ,”
the bank said in the statement.  In December, the EBA told European banks to raise 114.7
billion euros in fresh capital by the end of June as part of
measures introduced to respond to the euro area’s fiscal woes.
The regulator called for lenders to have core Tier 1 capital, a
measure of financial strength, of at least 9 percent of their
risk-weighted assets after accounting for writedowns on some
European sovereign bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  