-- Corn Imports by China Seen Gaining Sevenfold to Record as Demand Increases
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2012-02-23T07:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/corn-imports-by-china-seen-rising-sevenfold-to-record-as-demand-increases.html
Corn imports by  China , the world’s
second-largest consumer, may surge sevenfold to a record 28
million metric tons by 2015-2016 as local production fails to
keep pace with increased demand, according to  INTL FCStone Inc. (INTL)   Imports may gain from 4 million tons in 2011-2012 and reach
13 million tons by 2012-2013, Mike O’Dea, senior risk manager,
told a conference in Singapore. The local harvest may reach 187
million tons next year, 6.5 percent less than projected demand,
according to a presentation from O’Dea.  The country’s looming structural corn deficit may support
prices and boost  global food costs . China should increase its
agricultural imports to help feed its 1.3 billion people and
ease pressure on the environment, a state-affiliated researcher
said last year. China needed to maintain reserves of 50 million
to 60 million tons to guard against disruptions, O’Dea said.  “We’re projecting a doubling of imports this year, and
doubling again next year because they’ve got to maintain that
reserve stock,” said O’Dea, who’s been in the grains industry
for three decades. The government sold some of its corn
stockpiles last year to combat  inflation , he said.  Corn for delivery in May was little changed at $6.42 per
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 3:26 p.m. in Singapore.
The price has declined 0.7 percent this year. Global ending
stockpiles may be 125.3 million tons this year, the lowest level
in five years, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Soybean Trade  “China’s imports of corn will likely grow like the soybean
trade, that’s almost a certainty,” said Tommy Xiao, an analyst
at Shanghai JC Intelligence Co. The country is the largest buyer
of the oilseed, with imports rising more than fivefold in the
past decade as local output dropped, according to USDA data.  Demand for food and livestock feed has increased in China
as economic growth has lifted incomes, driving an increase in
protein consumption. Corn is used to make  animal feed , while
soybeans are crushed for oil and also used to fatten livestock.
Gross domestic product expanded 9.2 percent in 2011.  FCStone’s forecast for an import surge joins projections
from Singapore-based commodity supplier  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) 
and Cofco Agri-Trading & Logistics Co., a unit of the China’s
biggest grain trader. Imports may total 20 million tons by 2015,
Olam said in October. Shipments by 2020 may be as much as 20
million tons, Cofco Agri-Trading said the same month.  An increase in agricultural imports could cut the impact of
grain and livestock farming on soil and water, and is “nothing
to be afraid of,” Hu Bingchuan, a researcher at the Rural
Development Institute of the  Chinese Academy of Social Sciences ,
said in an interview November.  China’s imports of corn may be the “biggest wild card” in
the global market in the near term as the country may look to
rebuild the state stockpiles, O’Dea said.  Global food costs have declined 10 percent since reaching a
record in February 2011, according to a 55-item gauge compiled
by the Rome-based Food & Agriculture Organization, a United
Nations agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in  Singapore  at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  