-- Credit Agricole Posts Loss After Setting Aside Funds at Greek Bank Network
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-02-23T08:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/credit-agricole-posts-wider-than-estimated-loss-after-greek-bond-writedown.html
Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , France’s third-
largest bank, reported a greater-than-estimated loss in the
fourth quarter after setting aside money at its Greek consumer-
banking network and writing down investments.  The shares dropped after the  net loss  widened to 3.07
billion euros ($4.07 billion) from a deficit of 328 million
euros a year earlier. That missed analysts’ estimates for a 2.7
billion-euro loss.  In 2012, “the main worry is the need for economic growth
to get restarted,” Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Chifflet
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. The company,
which holds the largest lending book in France, plans “to keep
financing” the economy, he said.  Credit Agricole scrapped its 2011  dividend  in December and
said it can’t confirm 2014 targets because of “the lack of
visibility on the economic and financial climate.” The bank,
along with BNP Paribas SA and Societe Generale SA, is cutting
investment-banking jobs to reduce costs after  Europe ’s debt
crisis curbed trading revenue, U.S. money-market funds reduced
short-term lending to French lenders and regulators imposed
stricter capital rules.  Credit Agricole fell as much as 21 cents, or 4.2 percent,
to 4.80 euros and was at 4.88 euros at 9:02 a.m. in Paris
trading. That pares the gain this year to 12 percent. BNP
Paribas, France’s biggest bank, has risen 18 percent this year,
while Societe Generale, the No. 2 lender, has advanced 32
percent.  Greek Writedowns  European financial stocks rebounded in the first seven
weeks of the year after the  European Central Bank  provided 489
billion euros to lenders through a three-year refinancing
operation in December.  BNP Paribas and  Societe Generale  both said last week that
they wrote down their Greek sovereign-debt holdings by 75
percent. BNP Paribas reported a 51 percent drop in fourth-
quarter earnings on Feb. 15, while Societe Generale said the
next day that profit in the period declined 89 percent.  Credit Agricole said in a statement that it booked about
2.6 billion euros in writedowns on investments including its
stake in  Spain ’s Bankinter SA and Banco Espirito Santo SA of
 Portugal  in the quarter. The company also had 220 million euros
in fourth-quarter markdowns on its Greek sovereign-debt
holdings, bringing its average writedown level to 74 percent.  Emporiki Losses  While Credit Agricole’s sovereign-debt provisions for
 Greece  are smaller than those of BNP Paribas, it had a 5.5
billion-euro net refinancing exposure to the country at the end
of December through its consumer-banking network  Emporiki Bank
of Greece SA. (TEMP)  The Athens-based unit had a 352 million-euro
fourth-quarter loss as provisions for risky loans increased. The
French lender spent about 2.2 billion euros in 2006 to amass a
controlling stake in the division.  Credit Agricole can’t commit to any target for Emporiki to
stop the losses, Chifflet said.  “It would be quite audacious to say that it is in 2013,
2014,” he said. “We’ll try to do it as fast as possible, but
without saying when because it depends a lot on the return to
growth in Greece.”  Chifflet, 62, plans to reduce “by a maximum” Credit
Agricole’s exposure to refinancing Emporiki and expects Portugal
to escape the contagion after Greece received a second rescue
this week.  Investment-Banking Deficit  Greece sealed a 130 billion-euro bailout package by
agreeing on Feb. 21 to austerity measures while reducing its
bond principal by 53.5 percent as investors swap into new
securities with longer maturities and lower coupons.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos repeated
yesterday that a formal invitation for the bond exchange will be
made by Feb. 24. Real losses from the swap may be more than 70
percent, analysts have said.  Credit Agricole ’s corporate- and investment-banking unit
had a fourth-quarter loss of 1.2 billion euros compared with a
263 million-euro profit a year earlier, hurt by a one-time 1.05
billion-euro capital-markets goodwill writedown and higher
losses from subprime-era assets the lender is winding down,
according to Bloomberg calculations from bank data.  The corporate- and investment-banking division also booked
336 million euros in one-time costs as it closes businesses and
cuts jobs.  Credit Agricole’s corporate and investment bank will close
operations in 21 countries, remaining active in 32, while ending
its equity-derivatives business, the firm said Dec. 14.  The bank is shedding about 1,750 positions at the corporate
and investment bank, including 550 in  France , it said in
December. The company is also eliminating 600 consumer-finance
jobs.  Asset Reductions  Credit Agricole is cutting fewer assets than its two larger
French rivals as the lender is also less vulnerable to the
dearth of U.S. short-term dollar funding that hit European banks
last summer, analysts have said. The asset-reduction plans don’t
include the lender’s so-called run-off portfolio, Chief
Financial Officer Bernard Delpit said in November.  Credit Agricole is cutting its  debt  by 50 billion euros
between mid-2011 and the end of 2012, “especially” by
refocusing on its corporate and investment bank, the company
repeated today.  “Corporate and investment banking will reduce its balance
sheet, adjust its cost base and adapt its business model to
generate income in a restrictive environment, notably by
increasing the share of commissions and fee income in its
revenue mix,” the lender said.  The investment bank started off “well” in 2012, Chifflet
said in the interview. The bonus pool for traders and other
“risk takers” was cut by about 20 percent to an average of
105,000 euros, he said.  Profit from the regional banks’ French retail network rose
2.8 percent to 216 million euros while asset-management profit
fell 8.8 percent, hurt by outflows in France, the lender said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  