-- Currency Volatility Falls to Lowest Since 2008 on Global Growth Optimism
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-23T21:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/currency-volatility-falls-to-the-lowest-level-since-2008-on-growth-signs.html
Volatility of currencies of Group of
Seven nations fell to lowest level since August 2008 amid
optimism the global economy is improving, giving investors more
confidence to buy assets that appreciate in periods of growth.  Implied volatility of three-month options on Group of Seven
currencies as tracked by the JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index (JPMVXYG7)  fell
as low as 9.76 percent today, the least since Aug. 8, 2008, as
options traders scale back risk of large exchange rate swings.
Lower volatility makes investments in currencies with higher
benchmark lending rates more attractive because the risk in such
trades is that market moves will erase profits.  The dollar and the  Japanese yen  added to losses against a
majority of their major counterparts today after reports showed
U.S. jobless claims held at a four-year low and German business
confidence rose to the highest level in seven months. Investors
are selling currencies of countries with near-zero  interest
rates  to buy higher-yielding assets.  “Volatility is coming down and we are seeing increased
risk taking based on having no bad news recently and good news
slowly trickling in,” said  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S.
currency sales at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in  New York . “The
U.S. has had decent economic numbers for a while now and Europe
is not sinking through the mud.”  The real of  Brazil , where benchmark interest rates are 10.5
percent, has gained 14 percent versus the yen this year.
Mexico’s peso has advanced 13 percent. Borrowing in yen to buy
higher-yielding currencies has  returned  6.7 percent since
December, according to the UBS AG V24 Carry Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  