-- Deckers Pushes Uggs on Guys
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-02-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/deckers-pushes-less-fuzz-uggs-on-guys-as-female-brands-chase-men-retail.html
Executives at  Deckers Outdoor Corp. (DECK) 
recently asked a provocative question: Will guys embrace Uggs?  Few brands are more closely associated with women these
days than the Australian sheepskin boots. While American guys
will wear Uggs, Deckers found, they’re loath to come clean.  “They like the fuzzy stuff inside,” said Angel Martinez,
chief executive officer of Deckers, which bought Ugg  Australia 
in 1995. “They don’t really want to admit there is fuzzy stuff
in there, but it sure feels good.”  Attracting men to a so-called female brand isn’t easy. Ask
 Talbots Inc. (TLB) , which failed to make the transition last decade.
Still, more men are shopping again post-recession, while the
Metrosexual Effect has made it OK for dudes to take grooming and
fashion seriously. That in turn has prompted the likes of
 Lululemon Athletica Inc. (LULU) , Coach Inc. and Decker’s Ugg brand to
discover -- or rediscover -- their inner guy.  In the fall, New England Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady 
began pitching a line of male-oriented Uggs. Coach, the largest
U.S. luxury handbag maker, brought in a new vice president to
lead its men’s expansion and is opening more U.S. stores that
sell to men only as well as locations catering to both genders.
Lululemon, known for its $98 women’s yoga pants, said it is
revamping its men’s line with “popping stuff.”  American men are spending more on their wardrobes and
exhibiting an appetite for accessories. While ladies’ annual
apparel sales, at more than $110 billion, are almost double
those of gents’ clothes, menswear sales are growing faster.  Celebrity Icons  In the 12 months ended in December, men spent 4.2 percent
more on clothes than a year earlier, compared with a 3.1 percent
gain for women’s fashion, according to market research firm NPD
Group Inc. Celebrity icons like soccer star  David Beckham  are
helping drive the trend, said equities analyst Omar Saad.  “It has become more culturally acceptable for men to
explore their metrosexual side in ways that would have once been
considered effeminate or unmanly,” said Saad, of International
Strategy & Investment Group Inc. in New York.  Ugg, Coach and Lululemon’s ability to attract male
customers is creating a larger long-term opportunity than
investors realize, Saad said. The brands combined could sell
$4.5 billion in goods to men annually by the end of 2016, his
firm projects.  Talbots and  Liz Claiborne Inc. (LIZ)  failed to lure men in the
past because the apparel makers were early to the party and
because they tried to get their female customers to buy clothes
for the men in their lives, he said.  Fashion Sense  That perpetuated the notion that American men’s brands like
Ralph Lauren Corp., PVH Corp.’s Tommy Hilfiger and  Abercrombie &
Fitch Co. (ANF)  could profitably expand into women’s categories while
women’s brands couldn’t go the other way.  What these current brands bring to the mix is strong
fashion sense and better quality at a luxurious yet still
affordable price point, Saad said.  Men’s merchandise makes up 5 percent of Coach’s sales,
about 10 percent of Ugg’s and 12 percent of Lululemon’s, Saad
said. Those figures could grow to 25 percent, 20 percent and 40
percent respectively over the next five years, Saad projects.  While Ugg-style boots were originally worn in the 1960s by
Australian surfers keen to keep their feet warm after battling
the waves in the cold  Tasman Sea , the brand became popular with
the female set. Women, especially in their teens and 20s, have
snapped up the “classic” Ugg boot, which is made of sheepskin
and features a flat heel and rounded toe. The traditional color
is natural brown, and the fuzzy stuff often peeks out the top.
Girls have even worn them with shorts in the summer.  Less Sheepskin  Instead of just pushing those on men, Deckers, which is
based in Goleta,  California , developed versions that show less
sheepskin. It’s also touting rugged styles, including leather
motorcycle boots. That theme is hammered in the Brady ads. In
one commercial, the Patriots quarterback walks about wearing a
range of Ugg styles as rapper Mos Def urges: “Have Fun Y’all.”  Two years ago,  Coach (COH)  hired Greg Unis from Brooks Brothers
to spearhead its men’s initiative. The men’s leather goods
market is highly fragmented and “we believe we can become the
authority,” Unis said in an interview.  Coach’s strategy is to apply its classic styling --
signature burnished leather, hang tags -- to highly functional
items such as $218 tablet cases and $398 messenger bags, Unis
said. The company is pricing its men’s merchandise lower than
that of traditional European luxury brands, Unis said. He notes
that Coach already sells 800,000 wallets a year to American men.  Back Pockets  “They already know us,” Unis said. “They are carrying us
in their back pockets.”  Coach, which is based in  New York , sells men’s products in
41 of its North America retail stores, including five free-
standing men’s stores. In addition to planning new male-only and
new dual-gender stores, the company is creating more men’s shops
inside some of its 350 North American stores.  Vancouver , Canada-based Lululemon’s refashioning of its
men’s hoodies, pants and running accessories line with “big,
popping stuff” will really start to hit this summer, Chief
Executive Officer Christine Day said on a Dec. 1 call. That work
is “what I’m most excited about,” she said.  Men’s merchandise could add $1.14 a share annually to
Coach’s profit, or an extra 39 percent, by the end of 2016;
$1.57, or 32 percent, to Ugg’s; and $1.49, or 129 percent, to
Lululemon’s, Saad projected. He recommends buying the three
companies’ shares.  Men’s fashion is potentially more profitable than women's.
Ugg men’s footwear, for example, could become a higher-margin 
line because men’s shoe styles typically are evergreen and don’t
need reinventing each season, according to Diana Katz, a New
York-based analyst with Lazard Capital. Plus, she said, they 
require less sheepskin to make.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  