-- T-Mobile USA Boosts Investment After Failed Takeover by AT&T
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-02-23T18:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/deutsche-telekom-bets-1-4-billion-more-on-u-s-after-t-mobile-writedown.html
After spending the past year trying
to salvage the doomed $39 billion sale of T-Mobile USA, parent
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  will increase network investments to make
the wireless operator competitive again before a potential exit.  Deutsche Telekom budgeted an additional $1.4 billion
spending over two years on networks to win back clients
demanding faster access to multimedia content. T-Mobile USA lost
1.65 million contract subscribers in 2011, half of that in the
final quarter alone when  Verizon Wireless (VZ)  and  AT&T Inc. (T)  started
carrying  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 4S.  T-Mobile’s plan to introduce next year high-speed wireless
data transfers based on the long-term evolution technology
already offered by rivals is “not purely” aimed at making the
company more attractive to potential buyers, Deutsche Telekom
Chief Executive Officer  Rene Obermann  said today. The unit, the
fourth-largest U.S. wireless operator, generated 25 percent of
Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom’s revenue last year.  “We are currently under pressure on the customer side,
nonetheless let’s not forget it’s a valuable asset,” Obermann
said in an interview with Bloomberg TV’s Maryam Nemazee. “We
will make the company more competitive, and therefore we’re
planning to make an additional investment into the network
technology and at the same time we look for structural options.”  ‘Reposition the Brand’  Investments on upgrades of  T-Mobile USA (DTE) ’s network will be
boosted to a total of $4 billion in the two years through 2013
and will be funded out of the unit’s cash flow, Obermann told a
press conference in Bonn today. The move, which still leaves T-
Mobile two years behind larger rivals Verizon and AT&T in LTE,
will let the carrier offer higher-speed service as demand for
smartphones and tablets increases.  “The $4 billion go-it-alone investment plan is an extremely
strong one that can reposition the brand and the business,”
Neville Ray, T-Mobile USA’s chief technology officer, said in an
interview.  The plan may involve the U.S. unit accessing capital
markets for financing, Philipp Humm, head of T-Mobile USA, said
in a press conference. He said the company is interested in
purchasing more spectrum.  “We are not at this point in time tapping independently
into the U.S.  capital markets ,” Humm said. “We are interested in
taking steps in that direction.”  Frequencies Needed  T-Mobile needs access to more wireless frequencies to roll
out faster networks and cope with increasing data flow to and
from mobile devices, Obermann said. T-Mobile yesterday asked the
Federal Communications Commission to block bids totaling more
than $3 billion by Verizon to buy such airwaves, saying the
purchases “pose a clear threat to competition.” Obermann
declined to say whether Deutsche Telekom would buy the spectrum
itself if given the chance.  T-Mobile USA, which generated sales of $20.6 billion, will
continue to compete as a low-price provider, Obermann said. It
will also seek more cooperation with sales partners and virtual
network providers and add about 1,000 people to boost sales to
corporate customers.  “If you let the network bleed out you can’t really hope to
make money,” said Jochen Reichert, an analyst at Warburg
Research in Hamburg who recommends buying Deutsche Telekom
shares. “They have the choice to remain as a standalone carrier
or eventually sell the business again, but in either case they
need to build up competitiveness.”  ‘Self-Funding Platform’  Deutsche Telekom and AT&T in December gave up their
agreement to sell  T-Mobile USA  to the U.S. carrier for $39
billion after deciding regulatory resistance was insurmountable.
Deutsche Telekom said today it incurred an impairment loss of
2.3 billion euros on T-Mobile USA in the final quarter. The
German company received a breakup fee from AT&T of 2.3 billion
euros in cash and wireless spectrum valued at about 900 million
euros.  “In the long run we’re also looking at structural options
to mitigate” the relative lack of scale of the business,
including a “self-funding platform,” Obermann said in the
interview. “That goal has not changed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  