-- Deutsche Telekom Sees Profit Decline, Has U.S., Greece Wr
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-02-23T08:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/deutsche-telekom-sees-profit-decline-has-u-s-greece-writedown.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  forecast
earnings will fall further this year after posting a 1.34
billion euro ($1.8 billion) quarterly net loss because of
writedowns on  T-Mobile USA  and its Greek business.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization excluding some items will be about 18 billion
euros, or 3.7 percent less than in 2011,  Germany ’s largest phone
company said today. That compares with the 18.5 billion-euro
average analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg. The fourth-
quarter  net loss  was weighed down by about 3.3 billion euros in
impairment losses in the U.S. and in  Europe .  Deutsche Telekom, which failed to sell its U.S. wireless
business to AT&T Inc. last year, is struggling to prop up profit
as T-Mobile USA requires additional investments and the
company’s eastern European units lose customers. T-Mobile USA
ceded 802,000 contract customers in the quarter as rivals
started offering  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 4S, and the unit will need
additional spending of $1.4 billion this year and next before
the introduction of faster wireless Internet services, it said.  “They’re a bit more cautious on the outlook, driven
largely by the lower expectations in the U.S.,” said Guy Peddy,
an analyst at Macquarie in  London . “The whole European telco
sector is suffering a structural decline in earnings and
profitability. Deutsche Telekom’s numbers confirm that trend.”  ‘Structural’  Shares of Deutsche Telekom fell as much as 1.1 percent to
8.87 euros and were 0.6 percent lower as of 9:15 a.m. in
Frankfurt. The stock had lost about 10 percent in the year
before today.  France Telecom SA (FTE)  yesterday became the latest European
phone operator to back away from payout projections to conserve
cash amid the debt crisis, following  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  Telekom
Austria AG. (TKA)  Deutsche Telekom, led by Chief Executive Officer
 Rene Obermann , confirmed its forecast for a dividend of at 
least 70 cents a share this year, and predicted free cash flow 
of about 6 billion euros.  Fourth-quarter adjusted Ebitda climed 1.3 percent to 4.61
billion euros, Deutsche Telekom said. Sales slid 3.7 percent to
14.91 billion euros, trailing the 15 billion-euro analyst
estimate. The figures include the contribution of T-Mobile USA.
Deutsche Telekom had separated the unit out following the
announcement of the AT&T deal last March.  U.S. Spending  The impairment on U.S. and European assets outweighed the
breakup fee from AT&T of 2.3 billion euros in cash and wireless
spectrum valued at about 900 million euros, the company said.
The U.S. impairment is largely the result of having to work with
a lower customer base, spokesman Andreas Leigers said.  T-Mobile USA’s adjusted Ebitda will drop to about $4.8
billion this year from $5.3 billion in 2011, the company said.
The additional investments will go toward the rolling out of a
network based on the long-term evolution technology rivals such
as  Verizon Wireless  have already begun to offer.  Deutsche Telekom and AT&T in December abandoned plans for
the $39 billion transaction after facing regulatory opposition
in the U.S. The German company had planned to use the sales
proceeds to cut debt by 13 billion euros and buy back 5 billion
euros worth of its own shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  