-- Dexia’s 11.6 Billion-Euro Loss in Breakup Wipes Out Equity
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-02-23T17:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/dexia-s-11-6-billion-euro-loss-in-breakup-wipes-out-equity-1-.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the lender being broken up
after losing access to short-term funding, said disposal losses,
additional writedowns on Greek bonds and a slide in the value of
other government debt depleted  shareholders’ equity .  The 2011  record loss  of 11.6 billion euros ($15.4 billion)
compares with profit of 723 million euros a year earlier, the
bank, based in Brussels and Paris, said today in a statement.
Dexia’s own funds dropped to a negative 2.02 billion euros from
1.13 billion euros at the end of September.  “Spreads tightening in the first quarter resulted in
positive gains, so overall net equity is at minus 1.2 billion
euros currently,” Benoit Petrarque, an analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets in Amsterdam, wrote in an investor note. “The
stock is still uninvestable.”  Dexia was clinging to 18.7 billion euros of emergency loans
from central banks at the end of last year and tapped 22 billion
euros of temporary state guarantees to make up for a loss of
unsecured funding and deposits. The lender said its future
depends on support from Belgium, France and Luxembourg as well
as European Union approval of a restructuring plan involving as
much as 90 billion euros of state guarantees.  Dexia declined 2 cents, or 6.5 percent, to 28.7 cents at
the 5:40 p.m. close of  trading  on Euronext Brussels. That’s the
biggest drop in two months, trimming the bank’s market value to
less than 560 million euros. The shares have lost almost 91
percent in the past 12 months.  1.5 Trillion Euros  The group remains an important institution for the
stability of the European financial system, given the size of
the balance sheet and interest-rate swap contracts with a
nominal value of 1.5 trillion euros, Chief Executive Officer
Pierre Mariani told reporters in Paris today.  There’s no reason why the European Commission, the EU’s
antitrust regulator, should apply its usual rules for setting
the cost of state guarantees because Dexia won’t have
significant commercial operations left in a number of countries
following the breakup, according to Mariani.  The lender’s residual assets will generate an interest
margin of 30 basis points to 40 basis points, which gives a good
idea of Dexia’s financial equilibrium, he said. Dexia took
almost 20 billion euros of three-year loans from the  European
Central Bank  on Dec. 21 and may take more next week, Chief
Financial Officer Philippe Rucheton said.  ‘Going Concern’  “The new restructuring plan still needs to be drawn up and
there’s no final agreement between the Belgian, French and
Luxembourg states to grant guarantees on 90 billion euros of
funding,” said Dirk Peeters, an analyst at KBC Securities NV in
Brussels, who recommends investors to reduce their Dexia
holdings. “This leaves several pre-requisites not yet met to
allow Dexia to continue operating on a going concern basis.”  The cost of insuring Dexia Credit Local SA’s senior debt
for five years using credit-default swaps decreased 17 basis
points to 675 basis points as of 4:30 p.m. in  London , according
to CMA prices. A basis point on a contract protecting 10 million
euros of debt for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a
year.  Most Belgian  government bonds  fell, pushing the yield on
the benchmark 10-year security due in March 2022 to 3.67 percent
at 5:40 p.m. in Brussels, a three-week high. The extra yield
investors demand to hold the bonds of the country that agreed to
take a 60.5 percent share of the Dexia guarantees instead of
German debt of similar maturity widened to 179 basis points.  ‘Too Uncertain’  Dexia’s record shortfall included a 4.05 billion-euro loss
on the sale of its Belgian bank unit to the country’s government
and a 984 million-euro loss on the divestiture of Dexia
Municipal Agency, the unit that sells covered bonds to finance
French municipal lending.  Dexia said its  core Tier 1  ratio, a measure of regulatory
capital that doesn’t include paper losses on assets held for
sale, would rise to 7.3 percent from 6.4 percent when excluding
the 110 billion euros of assets still earmarked for disposal.  Those assets include the bank unit in Luxembourg, Municipal
Agency, Dexia Asset Management and the 50 percent stake in the
custody venture with Royal Bank of  Canada . They exclude
Istanbul-based  Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  as Dexia said the outcome of the
planned sale “remains too uncertain.”  Writedowns on Greek sovereign debt totaled 3.61 billion
euros last year, including 1.25 billion euros of impairments
taken by its former Belgian bank unit before it was sold on Oct.
20. In addition, Dexia wrote down an additional 1.01 billion
euros on derivative contracts tied to the Greek debt.  Dexia said it won’t pay a dividend or coupons on  hybrid
debt , unless it’s legally obliged to pay interest on the
securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  