-- Dish Tops Profit Estimates After Gaining TV Subscribers
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-02-23T21:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/dish-tops-profit-estimates-after-gaining-satellite-subscribers.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-
largest U.S. satellite-television provider, reported fourth-
quarter earnings that beat analysts’ estimates as the company
gained video subscribers.  Profit rose to 70 cents a share from 56 cents a year
earlier, the Englewood, Colorado-based company said today in a
statement. Analysts  projected  61 cents, the average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Dish, which trails  DirecTV (DTV)  in the satellite-TV market,
added 22,000 customers in the quarter, more than the 8,000
average of 10 estimates. Dish’s subscriber additions were more
encouraging than DirecTV’s results,  Craig Moffett , a Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analyst in New York, said in a note to clients.
DirecTV gained 125,000 last quarter, fewer than the 162,000
average estimate.  “What is clear from the latest results is that  Dish
Network  will no longer be a walkover for DirecTV,” said Moffett, who rates Dish shares “market perform.”  Dish advanced 1.6 percent to $29.62 at the close in New
York. The  shares  have jumped 29 percent in the past 12 months.  Net income increased 24 percent to $313 million from $252
million a year earlier. Sales rose 13 percent to $3.63 billion,
compared with the $3.62 billion average analyst estimate.  Competition’s ‘Best Hope’  Chairman Charlie Ergen today reiterated his commitment to
becoming a wireless company to move beyond Dish’s basic TV
product. Dish is prepared to build a network alone or work with
a partner to give customers mobile capabilities, Ergen said on a
conference call.  The company is waiting on Federal Communications Commission
approval to use the wireless spectrum it gained in takeovers of
DBSD North America Inc. and TerreStar Networks Inc. last year.
If the FCC denies Dish’s waiver, “all options would be on the
table for how we move forward with the company and the
spectrum,” Ergen said. Dish is the “best hope” for U.S.
wireless competition, he said.  Dish expects to hear from the FCC in the coming weeks,
Chief Executive Officer Joseph Clayton said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  