-- Dong Sells $840 Million Offshore Wind-Farm Stake for Projects
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-02-23T16:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/dong-sells-840-million-offshore-wind-farm-stake-for-projects.html
Dong Energy A/S agreed to sell 50
percent of a German offshore wind power project for 4.7 billion
kroner ($840 million), the most expensive acquisition to date
for an unbuilt facility of the type.  The Danish utility sold stakes in the wind park to Kirkbi
A/S, the parent company of Lego Group, and the Oticon
Foundation, Dong said today in a statement. Dong has permission
to build the facility in place and will retain liability for
construction risks associated with the project.  The transaction means Dong is selling the project for about
$6.08 million per megawatt, the most expensive for an offshore
wind farm, according to Fraser Johnston, an analyst at Bloomberg
New Energy Finance.  “Similar projects typically cost around 3.5 million euros
($4.7 million) per megawatt at most today,” Jerome Guillet,
head of Green Giraffe Energy Bankers in Paris, said by e-mail.
“The higher price probably reflects the fact that the buyers
don’t take construction risk and are happy with the stable
return coming from the combination of a stable revenue stream
and the long-term operations and maintenance agreement.”  Kirkbi and Oticon are equity holders while Dong carries out
the investment “taking the risks during the construction,”
Dong Chief Executive Officer Anders Eldrup said today in an
interview by phone from Copenhagen.  Interest in Park  Dong received about 60 expressions of interest for the
park, including from the Americas, Asia and  Europe , Eldrup said.  “This is the first time that we have make a deal with
corporate companies,” he said. “We think this is a new
interesting step in attracting investors. Very substantial
investments are in front of us especially in building out
renewables and offshore wind.”  Dong, with 1.3 gigawatts of operating offshore wind farms
and 1.1 gigawatts under development, has funded many of its
projects using co-investors because its own cash flow and access
to commercial bank funding isn’t sufficient.  It has sold stakes in three parks to Dutch and Danish
pension funds and shares in a U.K. park to Marubeni Corp., the
Japanese trading house, to help finance new projects and spread
the risk. Wind turbines anchored to the seabed, one of the more
costly renewable-energy technologies, are being promoted by
 Germany  and the U.K. to curb emissions.  “In the field of renewable energy, our objective is an
ambitious one,” Jorgen Vig Knudstorp, chief executive officer
of Lego Group, said in the statement. “One of our fundamental
values is that we want to help enable future generations of
children to grow up in a better world.”  Fifth Stake Sale  The Borkum Riffgrund 1 wind park in the German part of the
 North Sea  is set to start construction next year and produce
enough power for more than 285,000 homes when built, according
to the statement. It’s planned to have at least 277 megawatts of
capacity using turbines made by  Siemens AG (SIE) .  The deal was the fifth stake sale by Dong in an offshore
wind park “and our first in Germany, and we hope to do more,”
Eldrup said. First power is expected in 2014 with the park fully
operational by 2015.  The deal indicates there is money available for offshore
wind developers and “the sector has attractive risk and
remuneration profile for long-term investors and
environmentally-focused investors,” Guillet said. “It also
shows that Dong is doing a good job of finding these different
sources of funds,” he said.  Oticon and Kirkbi  Kirkbi, based in Billund, will invest 3 billion kroner for
a 32 percent share. Smorum, Denmark-based Oticon, the part owner
of hearing aid products maker Oticon A/S, will invest 1.7
billion kroner for 18 percent, according to the statement.  They will pay the purchase price in four instalments
starting at the end of this year and take over the completed
wind farm “and the earnings that come with their ownership
interests” in October 2015, Dong said in the statement.  Production will mainly accrue to Dong until then, according
to the company. Dong also approved a 15-year operation and
maintenance agreement for the project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  