-- Dotcom Faces N.Z. Extradition Hearing Aug. 20
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-02-23T04:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/dotcom-faces-n-z-extradition-hearing-aug-20.html
Megaupload.com founder Kim Dotcom is
scheduled to have an Aug. 20 hearing on his extradition to the
U.S., where he is wanted on charges of involvement in the
country’s biggest copyright infringement conspiracy.  The Ministry of Justice in  New Zealand , where Dotcom, 38,
was released on bail yesterday, announced the tentative date in
an e-mailed statement. It declined to say whether the U.S.,
which had asked for Dotcom to be detained in New Zealand, has
formally requested his extradition.  “Extradition requests are generally considered
confidential diplomatic communications between state parties,”
Magila Annandale, a spokeswoman at the New Zealand ministry,
said in the e-mail today. It would be inappropriate for the
ministry to comment on a specific case, she said.  U.S. prosecutors have dubbed the case a “Mega
Conspiracy,” accusing Dotcom’s file-sharing website of
generating more than $175 million in criminal proceeds from the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files. In a
revised indictment filed Feb. 17 in a U.S. court in Alexandria,
 Virginia , Dotcom was charged with three new criminal copyright
counts and five new wire-fraud counts.  These are in addition to one count of racketeering, one
count of conspiring to commit  money laundering  and two counts of
criminal copyright infringement. The earlier charges were made
public in the U.S. on Jan. 19 following the arrests of four
individuals, including Dotcom, in Auckland.  The racketeering and money-laundering charges each carry
maximum penalties of 20 years in prison.  Bail Conditions  North Shore District Court Judge N. R. Dawson in New
Zealand ruled that Dotcom isn’t a flight risk in allowing bail
yesterday. Keeping him in jail until his extradition hearing
would be “onerous and effectively punitive,” the judge said.  Under terms of the bail provided by the justice ministry,
Dotcom is under house arrest and subject to electronic
monitoring at the $18 million, 5.3-acre (21,400-square-meter),
estate in the hills of Coatesville, northwest of Auckland, that
he has been renting. Dotcom is permitted to leave the property
only to attend court and for pre-approved medical, dental or
legal appointments.  Dotcom is prohibited from having any  Internet access , and
has been ordered not to consume drugs or to have a helicopter at
the property, among the 21 conditions of bail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net . 