-- Draghi Says ECB Must Be Careful About Ending Bond-Buying Program
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2012-02-23T17:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/draghi-says-ecb-must-be-careful-about-ending-bond-buying-program.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said the bank needs to be careful about announcing
an end to its bond-purchase program.  “The markets are still vulnerable, and so we have to be
very careful about announcing the end of such an instrument,”
Draghi told the  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  in an interview,
according to a text provided today by the ECB. “The Securities
Markets Program has served a purpose since it was introduced.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB’s  bond purchases  have dwindled this
year, grinding to a complete halt last week, as falling bond
yields across the 17-nation euro region lessened the need for
the central bank to intervene. The bond program, unveiled in May
2010 to calm markets spooked by the sovereign debt crisis, has
split ECB policy makers, with some saying it blurs the line
between monetary and fiscal policy.  The ECB’s provision of three-year loans to banks has helped
to calm markets and reduce the need for bond buying.  “The impact of the three-year tender was underestimated
when I announced it in December, because many people expected
the ECB to expand its government bond purchases, the famous
‘bazooka,’” Draghi told the newspaper. “Maybe I should have
called the tender ‘Big Bertha’ when I announced it, then
everyone would have listened.”  Draghi said the additional liquidity is not fueling
inflation.  ‘Quite the Opposite’  “There is no sign of inflationary tendencies in the euro
area, quite the opposite,” he said. “And if there should be
any sign of future inflation, we have the instruments with which
to absorb the liquidity again within a short space of time.”  While the ECB has relaxed collateral rules to increase
banks’ access to its loans, Draghi said he’s not in favor of
loosening them any further.  “We have done enough,” he said. “In future, based on the
current outlook, it will rather be a question of tightening the
requirements again.”  The economic situation has “stabilized” and positive
signs have increased in the past two weeks, “although
uncertainty remains high,” Draghi said.  Asked if  Europe  is at risk of a “lost decade” of very low
growth, Draghi replied: “No. What makes me confident are the
reforms that have been started in Europe in the past four or
five months.”  A second bailout for  Greece  will be successful, he said, as
long as implementation of the reform program is “flawless.”  Draghi said collective action clauses may be needed to
ensure a sufficient level of participation among private
creditors in a Greek debt restructuring.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  