-- Techint Said to Seek $1.05 Billion Loan for Usiminas Steelmaker Purchase
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-02-23T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/techint-said-to-seek-1-05-billion-loan-for-usiminas-acquisition.html
Techint Group, through its  Confab
Industrial SA (CNFB4)  and  Ternium SA (TX)  units, is trying to obtain two
syndicated loans totaling as much as $1.05 billion to finance
the acquisition of a stake in  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais SA (USIM5) , according to two people familiar with the talks.  Confab, a Brazilian maker of steel tubes controlled by
Tenaris SA, a subsidiary of Techint, hired  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  as
the lead bank in a five-year $350 million loan, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the syndication process
has just begun. Luxembourg-based Ternium, Latin America’s
second-largest steelmaker, hired HSBC,  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,
JPMorgan Chase & Co,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Credit Agricole SA to
lead a separate five-year loan of $700 million, the people said.  The rest of the $2.7 billion needed to acquire the stake in
 Belo Horizonte , Brazil-based Usiminas will come from cash on
hand.  Techint said in November it agreed to pay 5.03 billion
reais ($2.7 billion) for the 27.7 percent voting stake in
Usiminas, Brazil’s second-largest producer of steel. The
controlling shareholders group, which includes Nippon Steel
Corp., will have 63.9 percent of voting rights.  Since the announcement, Techint has purchased 139.7 million
ordinary shares of Usiminas from Camargo Correa SA, Grupo
Votorantim and Usiminas’s workers pension using cash on hand a
bridge loan from Banco BTG Pactual SA, the adviser for Ternium
and Confab, said the people. That loan will be refinanced with
the two syndicated loans the company is negotiating.  Gustavo Pernalete, a spokesman for Ternium in San Nicolas,
 Argentina , declined to comment. Confab didn’t return an e-mail
seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  