-- Ecuador Rejects OAS Call to Suspend Newspaper Sentences on Clerical Error
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-02-23T01:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/ecuador-rejects-oas-call-to-suspend-pro-correa-court-ruling-2-.html
Ecuador rejected a request from the
Inter-American Commission on Human Rights to suspend sentences
against the nation’s biggest-circulation newspaper because of a
clerical error in the commission’s request.  The commission used the wrong date in its letter requesting
punishments be dropped against the daily El Universo, Foreign
Minister Ricardo Patino told reporters today in  Quito . The
commission should have referenced a court ruling from Feb. 16,
not Feb. 15, he said.  “There is a sentence about the case, but it wasn’t dictated
on Feb. 15,” Patino said, adding the Ecuadorean government was
never officially notified the commission was considering the
measures.  The commission, part of the  Organization of American
States , has said the sentences may constitute “irreparable
damages” to free speech. It issued a “precautionary
injunction” last night to halt enforcement of a court ruling
against an editor at El Universo and its owners until a hearing
between the parties on March 28, said Nicolas Perez, one of the
newspaper’s owners.  The statement may add to pressure on President  Rafael Correa  amid allegations he is weakening press freedoms.
Ecuador’s highest judicial authority last week sentenced the El
Universo group to pay a total of $40 million in fines and three
years in prison each for libel against Correa in an opinion
article published last year. The newspaper alleges the verdict
was written by Correa’s own lawyer.  “We are extraordinarily grateful to the commission for
this decision, which is a milestone in our battle for freedom of
the press,” Perez said in an e-mailed statement late yesterday.  The OAS, as the Washington-based organization is known,
didn’t reply today to telephone messages seeking comment.  Calls for Probe  The El Universo article by Emilo Palacio criticized Correa,
an ally of Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , for his role
in suppressing a September 2010 protest in which security forces
opened fire on a hospital in an attempt to free the president,
who was trapped inside by rioters. Correa has denied any
wrongdoing.  The subsequent court ruling has been criticized by local
and international rights group, including the New York-based
Committee to Protect Journalists.  During the appeals process, the newspaper accused Correa’s
lawyer, Gutemberg Vera, of secretly writing the ruling against
the defendants. Universo’s lawyers claim a forensic analysis of
the ruling shows it was written on a pirated copy of Microsoft
Word, known as Chucky Seven, not installed on the court’s
computer systems.  Judge Allegations  Monica Encalada, a judge who briefly oversaw the case
before the ruling last year, made the same allegations against
Correa’s lawyer last week and then fled the country, saying she
feared for her life, according to a statement and  video  of
Encalada disseminated by El Universo’s lawyers.  Vera responded by accusing Encalada of corruption and said
that if her claims are true, she committed a crime for not
speaking up sooner.  Correa, while denying the allegations, called for an
investigation into Encalada’s accusations, according to a
statement published Feb. 18 in the president’s official gazette.  Palacio has sought refuge in the U.S. while Carlos Perez,
brother of Nicolas, was granted political asylum in  Panama  last
week following the ruling. Nicolas and another brother, Cesar,
also fled and are in the U.S. awaiting the commission’s
decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 