-- Hedging Demand Halts Issuance of Credit Suisse VIX Note: Options
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t ,   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-02-23T21:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/hedging-demand-halts-issuance-of-credit-suisse-vix-note-options.html
Traders rushing to protect against
declines in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index created so much
demand for an exchange-traded note tied to equity volatility
that  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  stopped issuing shares.  Switzerland ’s second-largest bank suspended the creation of
new stock in the VelocityShares Daily 2x VIX Short-Term ETN on
Feb. 21 after its market value more than quadrupled in 2012 to a
record $694.4 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Shares
outstanding have  surged  699 percent since Dec. 30 as the S&P 500
climbed 8 percent and posted its best January gain since 1997.  Demand for products that let investors hedge has surged
during a four-month rally in global stocks. The Credit Suisse
note tracks a gauge linked to the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index, or VIX, which moves in the opposite direction
of the S&P 500 about 80 percent of the time. The structure of
the ETN known as the  TVIX (TVIX)  makes it harder for Credit Suisse to
offset risk, said Fred Bethon of X-Change Financial Access LLC.  “That particular ETN has grown so large that it’s
imprudent to continue issuing shares,” Scott Maidel, a senior
 money manager  for equity derivatives at Russell Investments in
 Seattle , said in a phone interview yesterday. Russell oversees
about $141 billion. “That massive amount of volatility that
needs to be traded to hedge the ETNs is a risk.”  ETNs are unsecured bank debt backed by their issuer’s
credit, unlike exchange-traded funds that hold assets. Banks
create and redeem shares of ETNs based on the level of demand
for the securities. That demand doesn’t affect the price since
the ETNs track the performance of an index. Both the TVIX, which
aims to generate twice the daily return of an index tracking the
VIX, and Barclays Plc’s  iPath S&P 500 VIX Short-Term Futures ETN (VXX) 
are based on  VIX futures .  ‘Internal Limits’  Halting issuance was “due to internal limits on the size
of the ETNs,” Credit Suisse said Feb. 21. Existing holders may
continue to redeem their notes with Credit Suisse or trade them,
the bank said. Katherine Herring, a New York-based spokeswoman
for Credit Suisse, declined to comment further.  The TVIX climbed as high as $17.86 yesterday, or 12 percent
above its  net asset value , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. When Barclays suspended issuance in its iPath Dow
Jones-UBS Natural Gas Total Return Sub-Index ETN in August 2009,
the note traded 15 percent higher than its net asset value a
month later.  Divergence Risk  “You’ve increased the risk that it will diverge from the
benchmark that it’s trying to replicate,” Steve Sosnick, equity
risk manager at Timber Hill LLC, the market-making unit of
Interactive Brokers Group Inc. in Greenwich,  Connecticut , said
in a phone interview yesterday.  Equity investors bought volatility products after enduring
unprecedented price swings in 2011 when concern about  Europe ’s
debt crisis pushed the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to alternate
between gains and losses of more than 400 points on four days
for the first time ever in August. Daily share swings in the S&P
500 averaged 2.2 percent that month, the most for any August
since 1932, Bloomberg data show.  The four largest ETNs that rise in value when the VIX
rallies have added $908.6 million in market capitalization since
the beginning of the year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The number of shares outstanding in Barclays’s  iPath
S&P 500 VIX Short-Term Futures ETN , the largest VIX-tied ETN,
reached the highest level in six months last week. The average
number of TVIX shares that changed hands daily this month was
22.1 million, versus the 2011 average of 2.25 million.  VIX Versus Stocks  The VIX rose 32 percent last year, its biggest annual gain
since 2008, as stocks around the world slid. The  MSCI All-
Country World Index (MXWD)  fell 9.4 percent on concern the European
debt crisis was spreading and global economic growth was
slowing. The U.S. volatility gauge reached an eight-week high on
Oct. 3, when the  S&P 500 (SPX)   touched  a one-year low. That day, the
TVIX reached $100.90, the most since November 2010.  The VIX fell 7.6 percent to 16.80 today, extending its
decline since the more than two-year high reached on Aug. 8 to
65 percent. The index is 18 percent below its 22-year  average  of
20.56, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “With this sideways and complacent volatility environment,
it’s awfully difficult for these funds, especially on the short
term, and in the VIX, to make any type of money,” Bethon, a
managing director for strategy and execution at X-Change, said
in a telephone interview yesterday.  The TVIX slipped 0.7 percent to $16.90 yesterday, bringing
its decline since Oct. 3 to 83 percent and leaving it 59 percent
below the average of $41.08 since the fund was started in 2010.  Drop From Peak  The  S&P 500  rose 0.4 percent today to 1,353.46, just shy of
its April 2011 peak of 1,363.61, which was the highest level
since June 2008. The benchmark gauge for American equity has
rallied 3.9 percent in February and is poised for a third
straight month of gains, the longest streak in a year.  The halt in TVIX issuance will lessen demand for VIX
futures, said Nelson Saiers, who oversees about $650 million at
Alphabet Management LLC in  New York .  VIX  futures  through October declined today, with March
contracts falling the most. April futures on the VIX settled at
23.30, or 6.50 points higher than the level of the gauge,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap widened to 7.02
points on Feb. 17. The last time two-month futures were that
high was July 2010.  “One of the bids for the VIX will be reduced,” Saiers,
who uses options to bet on the volatility of stocks and other
assets, said yesterday in a phone interview. “One potential
consequence of this move is that the floor on the VIX and S&P
500 volatility could be lowered.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  