-- Egypt Military Fund Cutoff Weighed by U.S. Over Plan to Prosecute Workers
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-02-23T13:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/egypt-military-fund-cutoff-weighed-by-u-s-over-plan-to-prosecute-workers.html
The Obama administration may be
compelled to block $1.3 billion in military aid to Egypt if the
Mideast nation prosecutes U.S. workers with non-governmental
organizations, a State Department official said.  “We are looking at that very seriously,”  Andrew Shapiro ,
the assistant secretary of state for political-military affairs,
said yesterday in an interview in Bloomberg’s Washington office.
“No decisions have been made. Our hope is the NGO crisis is
resolved. That’s the focus of our diplomacy.”  A criminal trial is scheduled to begin Feb. 26 for 43
workers, including a group of Americans, accused of illegally
accepting payments from abroad. Among those charged are workers
in Cairo for the National Democratic Institute and the
International Republican Institute, organizations allied with
the U.S. Democratic and Republican parties. Sam LaHood, the son
of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, is among them.  “We don’t think they should be put on trial,” Shapiro
said. “We think they should be allowed to leave.”  Egypt ’s 2020 dollar bonds fell, pushing the yield up the
most in a week, after the interview. The yield on the nation’s
5.75 percent notes advanced four basis points, or 0.04 of a
percentage point, to 7.28 percent at 3:26 p.m. in Cairo,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, has said cutting off the military aid would be a mistake
while also urging his counterparts in Egypt’s ruling military to
seek a halt to the prosecution.  General Dynamics, Lockheed  U.S. defense contractors such as  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and
 Lockheed (LMT)  Martin Corp. benefit from weapons sales to Egypt
financed through the aid.  Egypt views the U.S. assistance as linked to its
participation in the 1978 Camp David Accords with  Israel .  U.S. representatives, including a delegation led by Senator
 John McCain , an Arizona Republican, have met with Egyptian
officials to urge that a trial be averted. Egypt’s Foreign
Minister Mohamed Amr said on Feb. 21 that while the government
has no influence on the judiciary, he hoped for a speedy
resolution of the case.  Blocking aid to Egypt that is pending for fiscal 2012
“would be a significant decision,” Shapiro said. “The NGO
issue has to be resolved. The status quo is unsustainable.”  M1A1 Tanks  A cutoff would interrupt funding of a 24-year-old agreement
by General Dynamics with Egypt to produce M1A1 tanks jointly
outside Cairo, according to Peter Keating, a spokesman for the
 Falls Church , Virginia-based company.  Honeywell International
Inc. (HON)  and Allison Transmission Inc. are subcontractors.  Lockheed of Bethesda,  Maryland , which also benefits from
the funding, is manufacturing 20 F-16 fighters for Egypt with
delivery scheduled later this year, according to Laura Sibert, a
company spokeswoman.  “Certainly, U.S. companies would take a hit,” Shapiro
said. “Our policy has to be consistent with our values and
certain times we pay an economic price for that.”  Egypt has received about $1.3 billion annually since 1979
in Foreign Military Financing, which must be spent with U.S.
companies. The aid is used for new weapons, upgrades to existing
equipment and follow-on maintenance and support contracts.  The non-partisan  Congressional Research Service  said in a
January 2011 report that about 30 percent of the money is spent
on new weapons.  Certification Required  Under legislation passed by Congress last year, the State
Department must certify that Egypt’s government “is supporting
the transition to civilian government including holding free and
fair elections” and “implementing policies to protect freedom
of expression, association and religion and due process of
law.”  The financing “has served U.S. interests for a number of
years, and Egypt remains an important partner,” Shapiro said.
Still, “If we are not prepared to certify or waive the
requirement, the aid cannot flow.”  No contracts dependent on the funding have been canceled
yet, he said.  “Right now there is still enough in the pipeline that
there’s been no cutoff in existing contracts,” he said. “At a
certain time it would impact the ability to do those
contracts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  