-- Elpida Gains After Filings Show Goldman, Credit Suisse Buy Stock
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-02-23T08:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/elpida-gains-after-filings-show-goldman-credit-suisse-buy-stock.html
Elpida Memory Inc. (6665)  rose the most in
five months in Tokyo trading after filings showed  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  each own more than 5
percent of the world’s third-largest memory chip maker.  Elpida  jumped  13 percent, the most since Sept. 13, to 349
yen at the close of trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Japan’s
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average added 0.4 percent.  Goldman Sachs-related companies own a combined 6.07 percent
of Elpida, according to a regulatory filing to Japan’s finance
ministry yesterday. Credit Suisse Group companies held a 5.11
percent stake in the Tokyo-based chipmaker, another filing
showed. Elpida faces an April deadline to repay 92 billion yen
($1.1 billion) in  debt  and said Feb. 14 there was
“uncertainty” about its future, after saying Feb. 2 it
expected to secure financing.  “The stock’s volatility is getting high, especially after
it reversed its statement about the ability to repay loans,”
Yuichi Ishida, a Tokyo-based analyst at Mizuho Investors
Securities Co., said today by phone. Ishida has a “neutral
plus” rating on the company’s stock.  Elpida said Feb. 14 it wasn’t able to reach a deal with
 Japan ’s government and its main lenders to get financing for
debt due in April. Japan Credit Rating, the only company that
grades its bonds, cut the company one level to the lowest
investment score of BBB- the same day and put it on a
“negative” outlook.  Chip Prices  The chipmaker’s ability to repay the 92 billion yen in
bonds and loans by the deadline has been eroded by slumping chip
prices and five straight quarters of losses. Elpida is Japan’s
biggest maker of dynamic random access memory, the most common
chip used in computers.  Elpida, Hynix Semiconductor Inc. and other makers of DRAM
chips lost a combined $14 billion in the past three years,
according to Bloomberg calculations. The price of the benchmark
DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM, which plunged to a record low of 71 cents
in November, fell 57 percent to 91 cents in the past year amid
slowing personal-computer sales, according to Taiwan-based
DRAMeXchange,  Asia ’s biggest spot market for the chips.  Elpida lost 62 percent of its market value last year,
extending a 37 percent slump in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  