-- Emerging-Market Stocks Slip on Prospect Europe Crisis to Derail Exports
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-02-23T22:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/emerging-market-stocks-decline-most-in-a-week-on-economic-growth-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell the most
in a week as the European Commission said the region’s economy
will shrink this year, dimming the outlook for exports from
developing nations.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  retreated 0.5 percent to
1,059.26 at the close in New York, the biggest drop since Feb.
16. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  fell 1 percent, led by  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) ,  Asia ’s biggest exporter of consumer
electronics.  PGE SA (PGE) , Poland’s biggest power producer, tumbled to
a three-month low as the government prepared to sell a stake,
pushing the country’s benchmark gauge lower.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa
Index (IBOV)  dropped for a second day, losing 0.4 percent.  The 17-nation euro-region economy, the world’s second
largest after the U.S, will contract 0.3 percent in 2012, the
European Union’s executive body said today, abandoning a
November forecast for 0.5 percent growth. Italy’s economy will
shrink 1.3 percent and Spain’s 1 percent, the commission said.  “You’re being hit by a slowdown of demand from the rest of
the world, particularly out of  Europe , a major customer for many
of the  emerging markets ,” Bruce McCain, who helps oversee more
than $20 billion as chief investment strategist at the private-
banking unit of KeyCorp, said by phone from Cleveland.
“Although you’ve alleviated the financial crisis, you haven’t
alleviated the economic decline that seems to be unfolding.”  Euro-area finance ministers this week approved a 130
billion-euro ($172 billion) aid package for debt-laden  Greece 
and persuaded investors to provide more relief to the nation.
That’s helped alleviate the risk of a Greek default, though
Europe’s economy will struggle as countries cut spending to
reduce liabilities, McCain said.  Brazilian Inflation  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has gained 16 percent this
year, compared to a 9.4 percent advance in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO) 
of developed nations. The developed-country gauge trades for
12.9 times estimated earnings, compared with 10.7 for the
emerging-markets index.  The Bovespa declined after a report showing Brazilian
consumer prices rose more than analysts predicted this month
prompted traders to pare bets that  interest rates  will continue
to be lowered.  BR Malls Participacoes SA (BRML3) , Brazil’s biggest owner
of shopping malls, fell 5.3 percent.  Samsung Electronics paced losses by technology companies on
the MSCI Index after a revenue forecast from U.S. computer
manufacturer Hewlett-Packard Co. fell short of analysts’
estimates as consumers limit purchases of computers.  Technology Slide  Samsung sank 3.1 percent and a  gauge of emerging-market
technology companies  fell 1.5 percent, the most among the 10
industry groups on MSCI’s emerging-markets index.  Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330)  lost 2 percent in Taipei,
helping drag the  Taiex Index (TWSE)  down 0.8 percent.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland Chinese
companies traded in  Hong Kong  slipped 0.9 percent.  Stocks retreated for a third day in Istanbul, losing 2
percent as Morgan Stanley cut Turkish shares to “underweight”
from “equalweight” in its emerging Europe, Middle East and
Africa portfolio.  The  PX Index (PX)  slid 1.9 percent in Prague as  Erste Group Bank
AG (EBS)  tumbled 4.1 percent. Russian stock markets were closed for a
holiday.  Warsaw-based PGE slid 4.5 percent to 19.37 zloty, pushing
Poland’s benchmark  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  down 1.3 percent. The government
will probably sell 7 percent of PGE to institutional investors
today for 19.2 zloty a share, two people familiar with the
transaction said, asking not to be identified as the information
is yet to be made public.  Currencies, Bonds  South Africa ’s rand strengthened 1.1 percent against the
dollar after Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said moves to rein
in the  budget deficit  faster than planned will shield the
economy and prevent a credit-rating downgrade.  The real weakened 0.4 percent, the first drop in four days,
as Brazil’s central bank bought dollars in the forwards market
to stem the currency’s three-month rally.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries increased for the first time in five
days, rising one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 365
basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ; 