-- Energy Transfer Said to Set Rate on $2.25 Billion Term Loan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-02-23T17:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/energy-transfer-said-to-set-rate-on-2-25-billion-term-loan-1-.html
Energy Transfer Equity LP (ETE)  set the
 interest rate  on a $2.25 billion term loan it’s seeking to fund
the purchase of  Southern Union Co. (SUG) , according to a person with
knowledge of the transaction.  The debt, due in five years, will pay interest at 3.5
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the terms
are private. Libor, a rate banks say they can borrow in dollars
from each other, will have a 1 percent floor.  Energy Transfer  is proposing to sell the loan at 98.5 cents
on the dollar, the person said, reducing proceeds for the
company and boosting the yield to investors.  Lenders are being offered one-year soft-call protection of
101 cents, meaning the company would have to pay 1 cent more
than face value to refinance the debt during the first year, the
person said.  Credit Suisse Group AG is arranging the financing for the
Dallas-based company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The debt is rated Ba2 by Moody’s Investors Service and BB-
by  Standard & Poor’s .  The loan, along with proceeds from Southern Union’s
contribution of its 50 percent interest in Citrus Corp. to
Energy Transfer subsidiary Energy Transfer Partners LP, in
exchange for $2 billion, will replace $3.7 billion of previously
announced acquisition financing, according to a Feb. 16 company
statement distributed by  Business Wire .  Energy Transfer agreed to purchase Houston-based Southern
Union for $5.7 billion, according to a Dec. 9 company  statement .  Vicki Granado, a spokeswoman for Energy Transfer, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  