-- Henry Tang Should Quit Hong Kong Leadership Race Over Scandal, Poll Shows
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2012-02-23T01:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/henry-tang-should-quit-hong-kong-leadership-race-over-scandal-poll-shows.html
Henry Tang , facing a public outcry
over a basement built illegally, should quit the race to be Hong
Kong’s next leader, according to two-thirds of respondents in a
South  China  Morning Post poll.  The former chief secretary won the support of 16 percent of
506 respondents in the poll conducted on Feb. 20 and 21. Leung
Chun-ying, a former government adviser, was favored by 63.9
percent, the paper said today. The survey has a margin of error
of plus or minus 4.4 percentage points.  Tang, vowing to battle on, secured nominations from almost
a third of the 1,200 member election committee this week as the
scandal threatens to derail the ambitions of a candidate backed
by the richest men in  Hong Kong . His sinking popularity
highlights the divide between business elites and residents, as
surging  property prices  and a growing wealth gap stoke
discontent.  “I think Henry Tang should withdraw from the race,” said
Eric Cheung Tat-Ming, a member of the election committee
representing lawyers. “The building of an illegal basement
could be a criminal offence, and we can’t afford to have a top
leader who is involved in a criminal investigation.”  This is the last time Hong Kong will pick its chief
executive through an election committee, comprising tycoons,
lawmakers and representatives from China, before moving to
universal suffrage in 2017. The election is on March 25.  Integrity Questioned  In the poll published today, 77.8 percent of the
respondents said the scandal had a negative impact on Tang’s
integrity. The proportion of those who want him to withdraw rose
to 66 percent compared with 51.3 percent last week.  Li Ka-shing ,  Thomas Kwok  and Lee Shau Kee, who control
three of Hong Kong’s four biggest developers by market value,
were among the 378 who supported Tang’s nomination to be chief
executive, according to the nomination papers filed.  Tang, 59, was also nominated by Bank of East Asia Chairman
David Li, Wynn Macau Ltd.’s Vice Chairman Allan Zeman, Galaxy
Entertainment Group Ltd.’s Deputy Chairman Francis Lui and  Peter
Wong , HSBC Holdings Plc’s Asia chief executive officer,
according to the nomination papers.  Hong Kong newspapers, including  Apple Daily  and the  South
China Morning Post , reported that the basement, built without
government approval, contained a wine cellar, wine-tasting room,
movie theater and gym. An investigation is underway and Tang has
said the basement was in a property owned by his wife.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Tan Hwee Ann at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  