-- Tepco Said to Be in Talks for 1.07 Trillion Yen of Borrowing
-- B y   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2012-02-23T10:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/tepco-said-to-be-in-talks-for-1-07-trillion-yen-of-borrowing-1-.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  is in talks
with banks and life insurers for loans and a commitment line
totaling 1.07 trillion yen ($13.3 billion), according to three
people with direct knowledge of the matter.  The financing to Tepco, as the company is known, would
include a 500 billion yen term loan, a commitment line of 400
billion yen and a 170 billion yen portion to refinance an
existing facility, according to the people, who asked not to be
identified because the details are private.  Almost one year after the Fukushima disaster, the worst
nuclear crisis since Chernobyl, forced the evacuation of 160,000
people, Tepco is still negotiating with banks and the government
to save itself from bankruptcy and ensure it meets compensation
claims. A government panel has said Tepco may have to pay
damages of 4.5 trillion yen ($57.8 billion) by March next year.  “Saving one of the world’s largest private utilities will
require a massive commitment but it can’t be helped because
Tepco is too big to fail,” said Hirofumi Kawachi, an energy
analyst at Tokyo-based Mizuho Investors Securities Co.  Tepco will present a proposal to the creditors by March 2
outlining steps the utility will take to return to profit after
the disaster, the people said. The document being drafted by
Tepco and the government’s Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation
Fund will detail steps to restart one of its atomic plants,
raise electricity charges and sell  bonds , according to the
people. Lenders will decide whether to approve the loan package
after reviewing the plan, the people said.  Business Plan  The company is in talks with financial institutions for
loans, according to Naoyuki Matsumoto, a Tepco spokesman. He
declined to comment on details. The utility plans to outline its
business plan by the end of March, as planned, Matsumoto said in
 Tokyo .  The loans are contingent on the company agreeing to
increase electricity rates, accept a capital injection from the
fund and restart some of its nuclear reactors.  Banks and life insurance companies are also in talks to
loan another 1 trillion yen to the damage liability fund, which
would use the money to buy shares in the utility and get  voting
rights .  The utility is now dependent on aid from the Nuclear
Damages Facilitation Fund to stay in business. Tepco received 2
trillion yen in emergency loans last year related to the
Fukushima disaster.  Tepco’s lenders include the  Development Bank of Japan ,
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd.,  Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd (MIZC) ., four insurance companies, four
trust banks and about 30 regional Japanese banks, the people
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emi Urabe 占部絵美 in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  