-- Merkel Coalition Shaken by Dispute Over President
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-02-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/merkel-s-coalition-shaken-after-dispute-over-german-president.html
A spat over Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s appointment of Joachim Gauck as Germany’s next
president has cast a shadow over her coalition, potentially
hurting her government in its remaining 19 months.  Merkel’s  Free Democratic Party  coalition partner broke
ranks with the chancellor on Feb. 19, joining the opposition by
throwing its weight behind Gauck -- a former protestant pastor
and East German dissident -- even after Merkel expressed initial
objections to him. Gauck had lost the presidency in 2010 to
 Christian Wulff , Merkel’s choice for the position, who resigned
a week ago amid corruption allegations.  “You don’t forget something like this,”  Wolfgang Bosbach ,
a lawmaker in Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  and chairman
of the domestic affairs committee in parliament, said in an
interview in Berlin yesterday. “It’s burdened the atmosphere,
as far as political work goes. We’ll see what happens.”  The public division on the choice for  Germany ’s mainly
ceremonial head-of-state could weigh on Merkel’s government as
it pushes through measures such as a second bailout for  Greece 
and possible additional funding for other indebted euro-area
nations. FDP Chairman Philipp Roesler, the economy minister,
confirmed an altercation between himself and Merkel in the
chancellery as the coalition sifted through possible candidates.  “The response was tough,” Roesler told Die Welt newspaper
in a Feb. 21 interview, when asked what Merkel’s reaction was to
the FDP’s support. Roesler defended his party’s choice of the
72-year-old Gauck, who was in charge of opening up communist
East Germany’s Stasi secret-police files after the collapse of
the  Berlin Wall .  Coalition Acrimony  While party members have pledged that Merkel’s CDU, her
Christian Social Union Bavarian sister party and the pro-
business FDP will press on, lawmakers say the acrimony is bound
to take its toll on the coalition’s working relationship.  “It’s obvious that if something like this happens, it
doesn’t really contribute to trust within the coalition,”
 Michael Kretschmer , a deputy caucus leader for the CDU in the
lower house of parliament, said in a Feb. 21 interview.  The FDP, which won 14.6 percent of the vote in Germany’s
September 2009 elections, has seen its support plummet. A Forsa
survey from Feb. 22 placed the party’s support at 2 percent, not
enough to win any seats in parliament, while the CDU remained at
38 percent for the third week. The next elections are due to be
held in September 2013 at the latest.  The FDP’s maneuvering on Gauck was an “act of
desperation” that won’t win the party’s voters back, Manfred Guellner, head of Berlin-based Forsa, said by phone. The spat
makes it more likely that the coalition will end next year, he
said.  FDP Written Off  “Merkel has written off the FDP,” Guellner said. “The
communication and the cooperation will become a lot frostier.”  Gauck now goes forward to a special assembly for election
on March 18. By accepting Gauck, nominated in 2010 by the main
opposition  Social Democrats  and the  Green Party , Merkel’s
government can be assured of the election of a candidate polls
show to be popular with the public.  The son of a sailor who was sent to a Soviet Gulag for more
than three years in the 1950s, Gauck was raised in the Baltic
Sea port city of Rostock and became a leading figure of East
Germany’s anti-communist opposition in 1989. Gauck later gained
a reputation as Germany’s leading “Stasi hunter” for his work
in overseeing the opening of millions of files kept by
informants of the communist-era Ministry of State Security.  After the political parties agreed on Gauck last week,
Merkel reached him on his mobile phone while he was in a taxi.
“Overcome and a little confused,” Gauck described diverting
the cab to the Federal Chancellery. Merkel gave little
indication of her initial reservations.  “The central issue in the public life of Joachim Gauck has
been that of freedom and responsibility, and that’s what
connects me to him personally, despite our differences,”
Merkel, Germany’s first eastern chancellor, told reporters.  If Gauck is elected,  Europe ’s biggest economy will be
headed by a chancellor and president who both grew up behind the
Iron Curtain in the former East Bloc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  