-- Merkel Calls German Neo-Nazi Murders an `Attack on Our Country’
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-02-23T11:34:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/merkel-calls-german-neo-nazi-murders-an-attack-on-our-country-.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
called a series of mostly race-motivated murders carried out by
an underground neo-Nazi cell over a decade an “attack on our
country” and pledged to use all resources to solve the crimes.  Speaking at a memorial service today in Berlin, Merkel
steered the focus on the attacks, the motive of which was
discovered in November, to the 10 victims. The group, which
called itself the National Socialist Underground and originated
in eastern Thuringia state, is accused of killing nine men of
Turkish or Greek origin and a policewoman between 2000 and 2007.  “The murders of this Thuringian cell were also an attack
on our country,” Merkel said alongside candles representing the
victims. “They are a disgrace for this country.”  Lawmakers and investigators have pledged to find out how
the cell of at least three covert members could have carried out
the murders, as well as a series of bank robberies and bombing
attacks, without being detected. The crimes remained unsolved
until last November, when the bodies of two of the members were
found in the city of Eisenach, leading to a trove of evidence
showing connections with  Germany ’s neo-Nazi scene as well as the
possible knowledge of government informers.  Saying that Germany is enriched by immigrants, Merkel
turned to the debate about tolerance and racism in Germany. She
invoked the first article of Germany’s postwar constitution,
which declares that “human dignity shall be inviolable.”  “That was the answer to 12 years of National Socialism in
Germany, to the unspeakable denigration of human beings and
barbarity -- to the breach of civilization that was the Shoah,”
Merkel said, referring to the Holocaust.  The murders took place in cities throughout the country,
such as Nuremberg, Munich, Hamburg and Dortmund, and targeted
mostly men with immigrant backgrounds, such as shop owners. The
crimes came to light after Nov. 4 of last year, when the two
cell members, identified as Uwe B. and Uwe M., were found dead
in a camper vehicle.  The same day, an apartment they had been sharing with a
third person, Beate Z., exploded in Zwickau in Saxony. Beate Z.
has been taken into custody.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  