-- Esprit Sees $129 Million of Savings Through Sourcing From India, Indonesia
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   F r a n k   L o n g i d
-- 2012-02-23T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/esprit-gains-on-better-than-expected-profit-margin.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , the clothing
retailer pushing to recover from a three-year earnings decline,
expects to save HK$1 billion ($129 million) by June 2015 as it
adds sourcing offices in  India  and  Indonesia .  Esprit jumped the most in 14 years in Hong Kong trading
yesterday after saying efforts to revive its brand and close
unprofitable stores are helping results. The clothing retailer
will this year add two sourcing offices in India and Indonesia
and 40 to 50 stores in China as part of its drive to boost
profit, Chief Executive Officer Ronald Van der Vis said in an
interview in Hong Kong yesterday.  Van der Vis plans to turn the company around by improving
fashion designs to increase revenue, while boosting  China  sales.
The retailer, which in September said its brand had “lost its
soul,” reported better-than-expected first-half operating
margin yesterday.  “Esprit had become too much a T-shirt company,” Van der
Vis said in the interview. “The customers I spent a lot of time
talking to said: Please give me back the Esprit I used to know,
more fun, dynamic and more fashionable. So the journey is
basically bring it back.”  Net income  was HK$555 million in the six months ended Dec.
31, compared with HK$2.14 billion a year earlier, the company
said in a statement to Hong Kong’s stock exchange yesterday.  “Many people were thinking it would make a loss, but it
came out with a net profit,” said  Andrew Sullivan , principal
sales trader at Piper Jaffray Asia Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong.
“It also sounds more positive. The company is well-positioned
to make progress in restructuring despite the tough operating
environment.”  Stock Surge  Esprit rose 25 percent, the biggest increase since Jan. 21,
1998, to HK$17.78 in Hong Kong trading yesterday. The stock has
risen 77 percent this year, compared with a gain of 16 percent
in the Hong Kong benchmark Hang Seng Index.  The company saw “significant improvement in retail
performance” in the second quarter, it said in yesterday’s
statement. “Consumers are putting us back on their shopping
lists, which is the first step needed before seeing improvements
in traffic, sales and loyalty,” Esprit said.  The new China stores will help boost growth and the company
has established design teams in Paris and in China, Van der Vis
said in yesterday’s interview. The China team will deliver its
first products in August this year and the Paris team will
deliver in September, he said.  Holly Li, Adidas AG’s former general manager for north
China, joined Esprit as China chief executive officer on Feb. 1.  Margin Surprise  First-half operating profit  margin  was 4.7 percent,
compared with the company’s “planned” 1 percent to 2 percent,
according to the statement yesterday.  Second-quarter same-store sales fell 1.5 percent compared
with an 8.5 percent decline in the first quarter, the company
said at a briefing in Hong Kong yesterday.  The brand, established in  San Francisco  in 1968, plans to
close all stores in  North America  after failing to find a buyer
for the loss-making business. The company will end operations in
North America by March 31, it said yesterday. The U.S. and
 Canada  operations lost HK$1.6 billion over four years, Esprit
said last year.  Esprit in September reported full-year  profit  plummeted 98
percent to HK$79 million on costs for closing some stores
worldwide and selling its operations in the U.S. and Canada. It
was the third  consecutive  decline in annual profit for the
casual clothing maker that gets most of its sales in  Europe .  The company has said it has begun “grouping various
strategic functions” in its business headquarters in Ratingen,
 Germany .  Esprit also hired Melody Harris-Jensbach, a former Puma AG
executive, to supervise product development and design. She
joined as chief product and design officer on Jan. 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid in Hong Kong at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  