-- Ethiopia Courts Chinese, German Investors for Stake in Tantalum Mine Owner
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-02-23T06:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/ethiopia-courts-chinese-german-investors-for-stake-in-tantalum-mine-owner.html
Ethiopia ’s government is courting
investors from at least four countries including China and
 Germany  to buy a stake in the state-owned company that operates
what it says ranks among the world’s top 10 tantalum producers.  The sale of part of the company will help fund the
expansion of the Kenticha mine and construction of a factory to
process the rare earth metal, Zerihun Desta, general manager of
 Ethiopian Mineral Development SC , or EMDSC, said in an interview
yesterday in Addis Ababa, the capital. Tantalum is used in
transistors for mobile phones, computers and digital cameras.  “We are looking for a potential partner who has technology
for the value-adding factory and also the economic capability,”
he said. Chinese, Swedish, German and South Korean companies are
“aggressively looking” at entering into a joint venture with
EMDSC, he said, without identifying them.  Ethiopia,  Africa ’s second-most populous nation, is seeking
to diversify its economy to reduce its reliance on coffee and
other agricultural commodities for most of its export earnings.
Mining may become the biggest generator of foreign exchange in
“a couple of years,” Zemen Bank, an Addis Ababa-based lender,
said in September.  The expansion of Kenticha, 550 kilometers (342 miles) south
of Addis Ababa, may quadruple annual tantalum-export revenue to
$80 million, Zerihun said. The metal is inexpensive to mine in
Ethiopia because of the softness of the rock around the deposit
and “cheap” labor, he said. “If the price of tantalum goes
down, we will be the last to close,” he said.  Exports to China  About 80 percent of the 220 metric tons of tantalite
concentrate mined at Kenticha in the 12 months to July 7, the
end of Ethiopia’s fiscal year, was shipped to  China , said
Zerihun.  “This material is highly needed because the market for
electronic products is growing,” he said. “And the material
itself is a rare metal. Accordingly, demand is always strong.”  A valuation of EMDSC, estimated to be worth $25 million 10
years ago, is currently under way and a partner may be selected
by the Privatization and Public Enterprises Supervising Agency
within five months, said Zerihun.  Kenticha may contain sufficient deposits to produce as much
as 9,000 tons of processed tantalum products over “more than 15
years,” he said. The mine also contains quartz, feldspar, kaolin
and dolomite that are sold in Ethiopia for industrial uses.  EMDSC, which was established in 1995, has concessions for
gold, silver and copper exploration in other parts of the
country, according to Zerihun.  The company is Ethiopia’s only commercial producer of
tantalum and Kenticha ranks as the world’s sixth-biggest miner
of the metal, according to Zerihun. Artisanal miners shipped
about $5 million worth of the mineral last fiscal year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 