-- Mets Owners Seek to End $386 Million Bernie Madoff Lawsuit Without Trial
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-02-23T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/mets-owners-seek-to-end-386-million-bernie-madoff-lawsuit-without-trial.html
The owners of the  New York Mets  are
set to ask a judge today to end a $386 million lawsuit by the
Bernard Madoff brokerage trustee without a trial, saying he
hasn’t proved they ignored the fraud because it benefited their
business.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff threw out most of Madoff
trustee  Irving Picard ’s $1 billion lawsuit against the baseball
team’s owners last year, saying he could pursue only
$386 million at a trial set to start March 19 in Manhattan
federal court. To get most of the money, Rakoff said Picard must
prove the defendants, including  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz, were
willfully blind to Madoff’s crimes, which Picard has said cost
investors about $20 billion in principal.  Wilpon and Katz contend they should be allowed to keep the
$386 million. Picard isn’t entitled to a trial because he hasn’t
proved what Rakoff said he was supposed to, the Mets owners said
in a court filing this month.  “A willfully blind defendant is one who takes deliberate
actions to avoid confirming a high probability of wrongdoing and
who can almost be said to have actually known the critical
facts,” they said, citing appeals court judges. “Instead, the
trustee argues that defendants must be found willfully blind
because they should have suspected Madoff and should have done
regular” due diligence on him, according to the filing.  Today, Picard will ask Rakoff to let him claim $83 million
before the trial, leaving a jury to decide the rest of the suit.
To get that amount, which the Mets owners received from Madoff’s
 Ponzi scheme  in the two years before his 2008 arrest, Rakoff
said Picard need only prove that Wilpon and Katz took the money
without giving equal value in return.  Fictitious Profits  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history. He is
serving a 150-year sentence in a federal prison in  North
Carolina . Picard and his  law firm ,  Baker & Hostetler LLP (1155L) , have
charged about $273 million in fees for liquidating the Madoff
firm since it collapsed in December 2008.  Picard can’t take back the $83 million in fictitious
profits because the money was owed by a registered brokerage to
its clients, the Mets owners said in a court filing.  The Mets owners, after losing money in the Ponzi scheme and
an income stream from Madoff, have said they are trying to sell
stakes in the Major League Baseball team. They have cut the
team’s payroll and hired a restructuring firm to advise on their
finances, which remain under threat from Picard’s claims.  ‘Hooked’ on Madoff  Picard contends the Mets owners had a financial motive to
ignore Madoff’s fraud. Wilpon and Katz were so “hooked” on
money from Madoff that they used it in place of disability
insurance for the baseball team and to fund players’ deferred-
compensation plans, the trustee told Rakoff in a court filing.
The Mets’ Madoff accounts also funded working capital, as well
as insurance and compensation, he said.  “When faced with cash crunches from week to week, the Mets
routinely and confidently relied on future Madoff returns to
bridge the gap,” with any excess cash going back into Madoff’s
firm, Picard said in the Feb. 9 filing. “The Mets relied on
Madoff’s returns as a predictable source of income for a
business -- professional baseball -- with an otherwise
unpredictable revenue stream.”  Profits from real estate and other businesses went into
Madoff accounts, which provided “guaranteed returns” that were
used to pay quarterly taxes, living expenses and loan interest,
Picard said. The assets of the team owners’ company, Sterling
Equities Inc., including their stake in television network
SportsNet  New York , “are by their very nature illiquid, meaning
they could not and cannot provide cash on demand when needed by
the many Sterling businesses,” he said.  Picard Demand  Picard originally demanded $300 million in profit and
$700 million in principal from Wilpon, Katz and a group of
family members and related entities. Rakoff last month refused
to allow Picard to appeal the judge’s September decision
dismissing all or part of nine of 11 claims against the Mets
owners.  The Sterling partners built a successful business before
investing in Madoff, they said in a Jan. 26 filing. They have
said they were drawn to Madoff because of his prominence in the
investment community, and entrusted hundreds of millions of
dollars to him before losing $500 million in the fraud.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  