-- Mets Owners Ask U.S. Judge to Dismiss Madoff Trustee’s $386 Million Suit
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-02-24T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/mets-owners-ask-u-s-judge-to-dismiss-madoff-trustee-s-386-million-suit.html
The owners of the  New York Mets 
asked a judge to end a $386 million lawsuit by the Bernard Madoff brokerage trustee without a trial, saying at a hearing
yesterday that he hasn’t proved his contention that they ignored
the fraud because it benefited their business.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff threw out most of Madoff
trustee  Irving Picard ’s $1 billion lawsuit against the baseball
team’s owners last year, saying he could pursue only $386
million at a trial set to start March 19 in Manhattan federal
court. To get most of the money, Rakoff said Picard must prove
the defendants, including  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz, were
willfully blind to Madoff’s crimes, which Picard has said cost
investors about $20 billion in principal.  Rakoff banned two witnesses for the trustee from
testifying, including Harrison Goldin. The Mets owners lost one
of their witnesses. Rakoff said he will rule on the Mets owners’
dismissal request on March 5.  Wilpon and Katz contend they should be allowed to keep the
$386 million. Picard isn’t entitled to a trial because he hasn’t
proved what Rakoff said he was supposed to,  Karen Wagner , a
lawyer for the Mets owners said in a court filing this month.  “There is no evidence that any defendant believed Madoff
was a fraud and deliberately ignored it” as Picard alleged,
Wagner told Rakoff yesterday. Wilpon and Katz were “completely
open” about their Madoff investments, showing them to their
banks and using them as collateral for loans, she told Rakoff.
“They wouldn’t have done that if they’d thought there was
anything to hide.”  Willful Blindness  Saying Picard had failed to show willful blindness as
alleged, and as he was legally required to take back most of the
money he sought, she cited the case of a woman carrying a
bulging suitcase who was held to be willfully blind because she
failed to open it to check what was inside. Wilpon and Katz had
no such obvious reason to suspect Madoff, she said.  David Sheehan , a lawyer for Picard, said the defendants
were sophisticated investors and he believed a jury would see
willful blindness.  Sheehan asked Rakoff to let Picard claim $83 million before
the trial, leaving a jury to decide the rest of the suit. To get
that amount, which the Mets owners received as profit from
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme in the two years before his 2008 arrest,
Rakoff said Picard need only prove that Wilpon and Katz took the
money without giving equal value in return.  Fictitious Profits  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history. He is
serving a 150-year sentence in a federal prison in  North
Carolina . Picard and his  law firm ,  Baker & Hostetler LLP (1155L) , have
charged about $273 million in fees for liquidating the Madoff
firm since it collapsed in December 2008.  Picard can’t take back the $83 million in fictitious
profits because the money was owed by a registered brokerage to
its clients, the Mets owners said in a court filing.  The Mets owners, after losing money in the  Ponzi scheme  and
an income stream from Madoff, have said they are trying to sell
stakes in the Major League Baseball team. They have cut the
team’s payroll and hired a restructuring firm to advise on their
finances, which remain under threat from Picard’s claims.  Picard contends the Mets owners had a financial motive to
ignore Madoff’s fraud. Wilpon and Katz were so “hooked” on
money from Madoff that they used it in place of disability
insurance for the baseball team and to fund players’ deferred-
compensation plans, the trustee told Rakoff in a court filing.
The Mets’ Madoff accounts also funded working capital, as well
as insurance and compensation, he said.  ‘Bridge the Gap’  “When faced with cash crunches from week to week, the Mets
routinely and confidently relied on future Madoff returns to
bridge the gap,” with any excess cash going back into Madoff’s
firm, Picard said in a Feb. 9 filing. “The Mets relied on
Madoff’s returns as a predictable source of income for a
business -- professional baseball -- with an otherwise
unpredictable revenue stream.”  Profits from real estate and other businesses went into
Madoff accounts, which provided “guaranteed returns” that were
used to pay quarterly taxes, living expenses and loan interest,
Picard said. The assets of the team owners’ company, Sterling
Equities Inc., including their stake in television network
SportsNet  New York , “are by their very nature illiquid, meaning
they could not and cannot provide cash on demand when needed by
the many Sterling businesses,” he said.  $1 Billion Demand  Picard originally demanded $300 million in profit and $700
million in principal from Wilpon, Katz and a group of family
members and related entities. Rakoff last month refused to allow
Picard to appeal the judge’s September decision dismissing all
or part of nine of 11 claims against the Mets owners.  The Sterling partners built a successful business before
investing in Madoff, they said in a Jan. 26 filing. They have
said they were drawn to Madoff because of his prominence in the
investment community, and entrusted hundreds of millions of
dollars to him before losing $500 million in the fraud.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Farr at 
 sfarr@bloomberg.net  