-- EU Bank Firewalls, Citigroup ‘Defects,’ D.E. Shaw-CFTC Claims: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-02-23T13:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/eu-bank-firewalls-citigroup-defects-d-e-shaw-compliance.html
The  European Commission  published
the  members  and remit of a group of experts that will examine
whether banks should build internal firewalls to protect
taxpayers and customers when failure of one part of a lender
threatens to cascade throughout the company.  The group, to be headed by European Central Bank council
member  Erkki Liikanen , will “determine whether, in addition to
ongoing regulatory reforms, structural reforms of EU banks would
strengthen financial stability and improve efficiency and
consumer protection,” the Brussels-based commission said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Measures to be considered by the group include
“prohibiting banks from carrying out some activities or
requiring banks to put certain activities (e.g. taking deposits
from retail customers) into separate legal entities,” according
to the statement.  Lenders including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , JPMorgan Chase
& Co. and Bank of America Corp., have criticized plans by U.S.
regulators to ban commercial banks from proprietary trading,
saying the draft measures would increase risk, raise costs for
investors and be vulnerable to legal challenge.  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services
chief, has said the initiative, known as the Volcker rule, will
be among those examined by Liikanen’s high-level group.  The group will report “by the end of summer 2012,” the
commission said.  The group’s members include  European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. (EAD)  Chief Executive Louis Gallois and Alessandro Profumo,
former chief executive officer of  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest
bank.  Compliance Policy  CFTC Poised to Re-Propose Dodd-Frank Block Trade Regulation  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  is poised to
re-propose Dodd-Frank Act regulations that would determine when
swaps are big enough that their price and size don’t need to be
reported immediately to the public.  CFTC commissioners may vote at a meeting in Washington
today to seek comment on a revised measure after  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and financial-industry trade
associations said the original proposal could hamper liquidity
and didn’t account for different types of swaps. Banks told the
CFTC they need time to hedge or lay off risk related to so-
called block trades before they are reported.  The CFTC measure would divide interest-rate, credit and
other types of swaps into categories and then determine
thresholds for large trades. The threshold would be set at the
67th percentile for notional value of swaps in a category,
resulting in 6 percent of interest-rate and 7 percent of credit
swaps being considered block trades based on current market
data, according to a CFTC official who spoke on condition of
anonymity at a briefing for reporters yesterday.  Determination of a minimum block trade size is “among the
most important elements” of Dodd-Frank’s derivatives rules,
Jeremy Barnum, a JPMorgan managing director, and Don Thompson,
an associate general counsel for the Wall Street bank, said in a
Jan. 12, 2011, letter to the CFTC and the SEC.  For more, click here.  Greenlight Re Seeks Europe Deals as Insurers Need Capital Relief  Greenlight Capital Re Ltd., the reinsurer that counts hedge
fund manager  David Einhorn  as its chairman, said regulatory
changes and Europe’s debt crisis will probably create
opportunities to sell more coverage.  The reinsurer was created in 2004 to assume risk from
primary carriers and provide Einhorn with more funds to invest.
Europe’s financial firms have been forced to bolster their
finances as declines in sovereign debt holdings erode capital.
Regulators on the continent are preparing to implement Solvency
II, a set of rules designed to strengthen reserves to protect
policyholders against a decline in investment markets.  The reinsurer created a Dublin-based business in 2010 to
pursue opportunities in Europe and focuses on markets where
“capacity and alternatives are limited,” Einhorn’s firm said
yesterday in a regulatory filing.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  D.E. Shaw to Pay $140,000 to Resolve CFTC Position-Limit Claims  D.E. Shaw & Co. will pay $140,000 to resolve U.S.  Commodity
Futures Trading Commission  claims that the New York-based firm
exceeded speculative position limits in soybean and corn futures
contracts traded on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.  D.E. Shaw held a short position of 9,894 May 2010 soybean
futures contracts on April 1, 2010, which exceeded the single-
month position limit of 6,500 contracts, the CFTC said in an
order released yesterday. On June 18, 2010, D.E. Shaw held a
short position of 13,657 December 2010 corn futures contracts,
which exceeded the 13,500 single-month limit.  D.E. Shaw reduced the size of its futures positions on or
before the next trading day and before being told of the
violation, according to the order.  David Millar, an outside spokesman for D.E. Shaw at RLM
Finsbury in  New York , declined to comment on the order.  D.E. Shaw & Co. LP is part of the D.E. Shaw group, which
had $23 billion in investment capital on Jan. 1 and was founded
by  David Shaw , according to the firm’s  website .  The speculation limits cap is intended to prevent any
single trading company from gaining too much influence on a
 derivatives market . The CFTC, the main U.S. derivatives
regulator, completed Dodd-Frank Act regulations in October that
will impose additional limits on exchange-traded futures as well
as private swap contracts.  EON Calls on U.K. Power Generators to Boost Prompt Trading  EON AG’s U.K. business called on the nation’s other power
generators to boost trading in a daily auction of next-day power
held by  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and Nord Pool Spot AS’s N2EX
exchange.  The request came after Ofgem, the energy regulator, said
yesterday it may force the nation’s six biggest utilities to
sell 25 percent of their generated electricity in monthly
auctions of contracts for as far as three years in advance.  EON, Iberdrola SA, SSE Plc, Electricite de France SA,
Centrica Plc and RWE AG, collectively known as the “big six,”
supply 99 percent of the nation’s power and gas. That makes it
harder for smaller companies such as Intergen NV, Drax Group
Plc, First Utility Ltd. and Ovo Energy Ltd. to compete in the
market. EON, Iberdrola and SSE have committed to increasing
power sales in the day-ahead market through N2EX.  That exchange is preparing to start a new futures contract
based on the implied profit margin from generating power with
natural gas, known as the spark spread, to help spur trading in
the country’s electricity market.  South Africa to Begin First Sukuk Bond Sale, Managing ‘Risk’  South Africa plans to raise $500 million in sale of its
first Islamic-finance bonds, or sukuk, in the next fiscal year
as it seeks to diversify its sources of funding, the National
Treasury said.  Sukuk bonds are governed by Islamic laws, which don’t allow
for interest charges.  The Treasury has short-listed banks to arrange the sukuk
sale, Monale Ratsoma, an official in the Treasury’s asset and
liability management division, said in an interview. Lenders
will be invited to present detailed proposals in March, he said,
declining to name them.  Ratsoma said the sukuk bond sale “is about diversifying
our sources of funding and managing risk.”  The sukuk bonds will form part of the $3 billion the
Treasury plans to raise in international markets over the next
three years, Ratsoma said.  Courts  Citigroup ‘Defrauded’ Fannie, Freddie, Whistle-Blower Claims  Citigroup Inc. (C) , which last week admitted breaking Federal
Housing Administration rules and paid a fine, also violated
regulations for home loans sold to  Fannie Mae (FNM)  and  Freddie Mac (FRE) ,
according to a whistle-blower’s complaint.  The bank “defrauded, falsified information or misled
federal government entities” by selling or securing insurance
for mortgages with defects such as improper appraisals and
paperwork errors and not reporting them as required, Sherry
Hunt, a Citigroup quality-assurance vice president, said in her
complaint, which was unsealed yesterday. It was filed under the
False Claims Act in federal court in Manhattan in August.  For Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. bank by assets, the
high defect rates could be costly. It might be forced to buy
back substandard mortgages sold to government-controlled  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac , who buy or guarantee most U.S. mortgages.  Under the Feb. 15 settlement with the U.S. on FHA loans,
Citigroup will pay $158.3 million. The Justice Department
reserved the right to pursue criminal and other charges related
to mortgages originated or underwritten by Citigroup and not
insured by the FHA.  Hunt cited an “overall systemic failure” in her complaint
that she said in a May 2011 letter to the Securities and
Exchange Commission “threatens the thin ice the entire market
is treading on.” The letter was also released yesterday.  “We take our quality assurance processes seriously and
have pro-actively undertaken process improvements to ensure that
they are as strong as possible,”  Sean Kevelighan , a Citigroup
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Andrew Wilson, a spokesman for Washington-based Fannie Mae,
and Chad Wandler, a spokesman for McLean, Virginia-based Freddie
Mac, declined to comment.  The case is U.S. ex rel Hunt v. Citigroup Inc., 11-
cv-005473, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  SEC Seeks Testimony of Former IKB Employee in Tourre Suit  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission wants to
question a former employee of  IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG (IKB)  in
its lawsuit against Goldman Sachs Group Inc. trader Fabrice
Tourre, court records show.  The SEC yesterday asked a federal judge in New York to
issue the legal papers necessary for the agency to take
testimony from Jorg Zimmerman, a resident of Germany.  The agency sued Tourre in 2010, saying he defrauded
investors by not disclosing that hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped
pick the underlying securities for a collateralized debt
obligation, known as Abacus, and planned to bet against them.  After reaching a $550 million settlement with New York-
based Goldman Sachs, the SEC filed a new claim against Tourre,
saying he gave the company “substantial assistance” as it
misled investors. The SEC said IKB wouldn’t have invested if it
had known of Paulson’s involvement in the portfolio selection.  The agency said its lawyers want to ask Zimmerman about
IKB’s decision to invest, the representations Tourre and Goldman
Sachs made to the bank, “and the importance of the facts
omitted by Tourre” and Goldman Sachs.  Zimmerman isn’t a defendant in the case. Tourre has denied
wrongdoing in the lawsuit.  Pamela Rogers Chepiga, a lawyer for Tourre, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the filing.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Hong Kong Market Watchdog Wins Tiger Asia Appeal on Power to Sue  Hong Kong’s securities watchdog won the right to
independently seek civil remedies from suspected rule breakers,
reversing an earlier court decision that struck out its case
against hedge fund Tiger Asia Management LLC.  Court of Appeal Judge Robert Tang wrote in a ruling handed
down today that such a power “provides much needed ammunition
to the commission to protect investors.”  The  Securities and Futures Commission  has been fighting for
the ability to sue for relief before asking the Financial
Secretary to bring a civil market misconduct inquiry. Criminal
prosecution remains a challenge in a market where almost half of
equities trading turnover comes from overseas investors,
according to the most recent  Hong Kong stock exchange data .  The SFC alleges that New York-based Tiger Asia traded on
inside information from bankers arranging placements of  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  and Bank of China Ltd. shares in 2008
and 2009, pocketing HK$38.5 million ($4.9 million).  Simon Clarke, a lawyer for Tiger Asia employee William
Tomita, said the defendants plan to appeal the case once more to
Hong Kong’s highest court.  The case is Securities and Futures Commission and Tiger
Asia Management LLC, Sung Kook Hwang Bill, Raymond Park, William
Tomita, CACV178/2011 in the Hong Kong Court of Appeal.  Interviews/Speeches  SEC’s Schapiro Says Money Funds’ Makeup Makes Them Run-Prone  Money market fund regulations need to be revamped quickly
to fix the funds’ inherent vulnerability to runs, said U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro .  “I do feel a sense of urgency about the structural
weaknesses that exist in money market funds,” Schapiro said
yesterday at a Washington breakfast with reporters sponsored by
the Christian Science Monitor. The SEC has been working on two
possibilities to change aspects of the $2.6 trillion money funds
industry that make them “prone to runs,” she said, with the
agency considering either a departure from the traditional $1
share price or mandating capital cushions.  Regulators have debated how to make the funds more stable
since the 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary
Fund, which triggered an industrywide run by clients that helped
freeze global credit markets. The agency enacted changes two
years later in an attempt to prevent runs, including new
liquidity requirements, shorter maturity limits and enhanced
disclosure mandates.  Schapiro said in a November speech that the agency would
soon propose revamping fund rules. The commission hasn’t yet
voted on a proposal.  For more, click here.  Michael Dooley Says Leverage Needs Enforcement  Michael Dooley of the University of California at Santa
Cruz, said efforts to “limit leverage” by banks and financial
institutions need enforcement.  Dooley talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and Tom Keene on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  They were joined
by  David Kotok  of Cumberland Advisors.  For the audio, click here.  Herzog Says Israel Competition Laws to Pass Before July  Zach Herzog, head of international sales at Psagot
Investment House Ltd., discusses the Israeli government’s
proposed recommendations to increase competition.  He talks from Tel Aviv with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse.”  For more the video, click here.  Stretch Says Obama Corporate-Tax Proposal a ‘Framework’  Clint Stretch, managing principal of tax policy at Deloitte
Tax LLP, talks about the Obama administration’s corporate-tax
proposals.  The White House proposed reducing the corporate tax rate to
28 percent from 35 percent, eliminating tax breaks and changing
some core provisions in the tax code. Stretch speaks with Erik
Schatzker and Michael McKee on Bloomberg Television’s
“InsideTrack.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Former SEC Commissioner Casey Working for Atkins’ Firm Patomak  Kathleen L. Casey, a former member of the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, has gone to work at a Washington
consulting firm run by another former Republican commissioner,
Paul S. Atkins .  Casey, a Republican who left office when her term expired
last year, will be a senior adviser at  Patomak Global Partners
LLC .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 