-- EU Confirms Spain Will Relapse Into Recession, Warns on Further Austerity
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-02-23T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/eu-confirms-spain-will-relapse-into-recession-warns-on-further-austerity.html
Spain ’s economy will relapse into a
recession in 2012 and additional austerity measures may worsen
the slump, the European Commission said.  Spain’s  economy  will contract 1 percent this year after
expanding 0.7 percent in 2011, the commission said in a report
today. In November, the commission had forecast Spanish growth
of 0.7 percent in 2012.  “Additional fiscal measures in the forthcoming budget may
significantly change the picture,” the commission said.  Spain’s deficit-reduction efforts are being hobbled by a
slump in growth since the last quarter of 2011. The
 International Monetary Fund  expects the fourth-largest economy
in the euro area to contract 1.7 percent this year, its second
recession in as many years, preventing the nation from meeting
its budget goals.  Private consumption will be “significantly weaker” this
year, weighed down by austerity and “persistently high”
unemployment, the commission said. Exports are expected to be
“relatively resilient,” as inflation slows to 1.3 percent from
3.1 percent in 2011, falling below the euro-area average and
improving the country’s price competitiveness.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s People’s Party government,
in power since December, has been waiting for the EU growth
forecast to draft its 2012 budget next month. Rajoy has already
raised taxes and cut spending to reduce the deficit by about 15
billion euros ($20 billion). Unchanged deficit goals for 2012
would force him to find another 25 billion euros, according to
an estimate by Moody’s Investors Service.  The EU asked Spain last month to take additional austerity
steps after the government said it expects a shortfall a third
larger than its target in 2011. Members of Rajoy’s government
have said the nation will struggle to shrink the gap from around
8 percent of gross domestic product to 4.4 percent of GDP this
year as the economy contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  