-- EU CO2 Trade Cost on Airlines Outweigh Fuel Tax, Sandbag Says
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2012-02-23T18:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/eu-co2-trade-cost-on-airlines-outweigh-fuel-tax-sandbag-says.html
Costs for airlines in the U.K. under
the European Union emissions trading system are less than 1
percent of what they would pay in fuel taxes, according to
Sandbag, an environmental lobby group.  Compliance costs for the 20 biggest airlines registered
with the U.K. will be about 76 million pounds ($119 million) in
2012, Rob Elsworth, policy officer in  London  for the group, said
today in an e-mailed statement. That compares with as much as
8.9 billion pounds assuming a fuel tax of 37.7 pence a liter,
the rate charged for aviation gasoline used in recreational
flights, he said. Kerosene used in commercial aviation is exempt
from tax under international agreements.  “Airlines should welcome the inclusion of their industry
into the EU ETS as a cost-effective way to incentivise emissions
reductions,” Elsworth said in the statement. “The strength of
their opposition is out of line with what they are being asked
to do. The removal of fuel subsidies by comparison, by
introducing a tax on kerosene, would be hugely more expensive
and damaging to the industry.”  The EU’s emissions trading system was expanded this year to
cover airlines landing and departing from the region. Officials
from 29 nations signed a declaration in protest against the EU
law,  Russia ’s Deputy Transportation Minister Valery Okulov said
yesterday in Moscow during a two-day meeting of opponents to the
laws. They may challenge EU carbon trading under article 84 of
the 1944 Chicago Convention, which governs international
aviation.  The EU may ban airlines that fail to comply with EU carbons
curbs, Isaac Valero-Ladron, a European Commission spokesman in
Brussels, said yesterday. The measure would be one of “very
last resort,” he said. The emissions laws don’t breach any
international legislation, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  