-- EU Predicts Polish Economy Will Expand at Bloc’s Fastest Pace This Year
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-02-23T11:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/eu-predicts-polish-economy-will-expand-at-bloc-s-fastest-pace-this-year.html
Poland, the European Union’s largest
eastern member, will post the 27-nation bloc’s fastest economic
growth this year, driven by corporate investment,the European
Commission forecast.  Gross domestic product  will grow 2.5 percent, with
quarterly expansion of about 0.5 percent during the year, the
EU’s executive arm said in a statement today. Spending on road
and rail upgrades for the Euro 2012 soccer championship will
help boost the pace of growth, it said.  “Investment spending growth is expected to remain robust,
supported by accelerating private investment,” the commission
said. “The corporate sector is likely to continue to increase
capacity, financed by intensifying inflows of foreign capital,
retained earnings and growing corporate credit.”  The EU’s forecast is in line with a prediction by Polish
Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s government. Poland is weathering
the “mild recession” predicted for the 17-nation euro region,
its biggest trading partner. The purchasing managers’ index, a
gauge of manufacturing, rose to the highest level in eight
months in January and industrial-output growth accelerated last
month to the fastest in 11 months.  The zloty has strengthened 6.6 percent against the euro
this year, the third-best performance of about 170 currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The currency was 0.3 percent higher at
4.1887 per euro at 12:07 p.m. in Warsaw today.  The commission kept  Poland ’s growth estimate unchanged from
its autumn forecasts, while it downgraded the projection for the
three Baltic countries.  Estonia’s economy, the fastest-growing country in the EU
last year, will probably expand 1.2 percent this year, compared
with the previous forecast of 3.2 percent growth, as exports
will stay weak in the first half, the commission said.
Lithuania, the biggest Baltic economy, and Latvia will probably
expand 2.3 percent and 2.1 percent, respectively, the fastest
rates behind Poland.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  