-- Barnier Says Volcker Rule Should Focus on Banks’ U.S. Acts
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-02-23T19:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/eu-says-volcker-rule-is-too-far-reaching-should-focus-on-banks-u-s-acts.html
Michel Barnier , the European Union’s
financial services chief, said a proposed U.S. ban on
proprietary trading is too far-reaching and its implementation
must be coordinated globally.  The so-called Volcker rule, named for former Federal
Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , was included in the Dodd-Frank
Act to restrict risky trading at banks that operate with federal
guarantees. Central bankers and regulators from around the world
have voiced concern that the rule, which would apply to the U.S.
operations of foreign banks, may also extend to firms’
operations outside of the country.  “It is not acceptable that U.S. rules have such a wide
effect on other nations and foreign capital markets without any
international coordination,” Barnier said today in a speech at
a conference in  Washington . “National rules can have serious
effects abroad. That is why I’m concerned about your proposed
implementation” of the Volcker rule.  In scores of comment letters filed Feb. 13, the world’s
largest banks demanded changes to the proposed ban on
proprietary trading. They said the Volcker rule, which is
scheduled to take effect in July, would increase risk, raise
investor costs, hurt U.S. competitiveness and be vulnerable to
legal challenge. G-20 leaders haven’t endorsed the rule, which
exempts U.S. government debt but not non-U.S. government bonds.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  rose 0.3 percent at
1,361.85 at 2:37 p.m. in  New York , while yields on 10-year
Treasury notes fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 1.98 percent.  Barnier said he is “concerned” the U.S. hasn’t
implemented tougher capital rules for banks that were approved
by international regulators in the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  in 2009. The measures, known as Basel 2.5, would
force lenders to hold more reserves against assets they intend
to trade on the markets, and against complex asset-backed
securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  