-- Euro-Region Economy Poised to Shrink in 2012 as Italy Contracts With Spain
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-02-23T10:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/euro-region-economy-will-shrink-this-year-as-italy-spain-tumble-eu-says.html
Europe’s economy  will shrink in
2012, with  Italy  and  Spain  facing sudden crunches as they battle
to escape the debt crisis, the European Commission said.  The 17-nation euro economy will contract 0.3 percent, the
commission said, abandoning a November forecast of 0.5 percent
growth. The downgrade was mainly due to projected contractions
of 1.3 percent in Italy and 1 percent in Spain.  “The euro area has entered into a mild recession,”
European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told
reporters in Brussels today after releasing the forecasts.
“Prospects have worsened and risks to the growth outlook do
remain, but there are signs of stabilization.”  Two days after Greece clinched a second bailout, the
forecasts showed an economy pockmarked by the two-year-old
fiscal crisis and looked set to stiffen resistance in southern
 Europe  to further doses of German-demanded austerity.  The full-year Europe-wide contraction would be the first
since 2009, when a 4.3 percent drop in the wake of the U.S.-led
banking crisis exposed the overborrowing and imbalances that
plunged Europe into its sovereign debt troubles.  Financial markets “remain still rather fragile, but there
arre also signs of stabilization,” Rehn said.  The euro pulled off its high against the dollar after the
forecasts were published, trading at $1.3313 at 10:16 a.m. in
 London , up 0.5 percent on the day, after reaching $1.3343
earlier.  Growth Downgrade  The growth downgrade went along with a higher inflation
forecast, potentially limiting the  European Central Bank ’s scope
for a further cut in its main  interest rate  from 1 percent.
Euro-area inflation will reach 2.1 percent, topping the central
bank’s 2 percent limit, the commission said. In November it had
counted on 1.7 percent inflation.  With countries along the Mediterranean rim plagued by too
much debt and too little competitiveness, divergences within
what is supposed to be a unified continental economy have become
more “pronounced,” the commission said.  Declining employment , two years of budget cuts and
financing constraints for businesses will combine for a
“substantial drop” in Italian domestic demand in 2012, the
commission said.  It painted a similar picture in Spain, stuck with a 22.9
percent unemployment rate and mounting doubts whether Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government will meet deficit-reduction
targets.  Growth Differentials  Spain is still suffering from the aftershocks of the burst
housing bubble, compounded by fiscal austerity and high
corporate debt that is holding back business investment, the
commission said.  “Growth differentials are set to remain substantial,” the
commission said.  The divergences carried through to the three countries --
 Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland -- forced to fall back on a
combined 386 billion euros of financial aid to stave off
default.  Greece met with the sharpest downgrade, with this year’s
contraction now seen at 4.4 percent compared with 2.8 percent in
November. Portugal’s economy will shrink 3.3 percent, compared
with the previous forecast of 3 percent. Ireland, by contrast,
will grow 0.5 percent, expanding for the second straight year.  Germany, Europe’s largest economy, will muster 0.6 percent
growth, down from a November estimate of 0.8 percent. Germany
will get away with a “temporary interruption” of its economic
momentum instead of tipping into a technical recession, the
commission said.  Germany’s Decoupling  Germany ’s decoupling from southern Europe was reflected in
a greater-than-expected increase in business confidence,
according to a separate report by the Ifo institute today.  The EU forecast for  France , the second largest, was scaled
back to 0.4 percent from 0.6 percent. In a potential fillip for
the struggling re-election campaign of President  Nicolas Sarkozy , the commission said France too will escape a recession,
commonly defined as two consecutive quarterly contractions.  Overall, the EU was more downbeat than private-sector
analysts surveyed by the ECB, who on Feb. 16 predicted a 0.1
percent decline. The ECB’s latest projection, released in
December, was for 0.3 percent growth. It will put out new
forecasts next month.  The economic retrenchment will be “rather mild and
temporary, but the turnaround of the trend needs to be confirmed
in coming months,” Rehn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  