-- Everything Everywhere to Become First U.K. Carrier to Offer 4G
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-02-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/everything-everywhere-to-become-first-u-k-carrier-to-offer-4g.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France
Telecom SA (FTE) ’s British mobile-phone venture plans to begin a
fourth-generation high-speed mobile Internet service at the end
of this year, the first operator to announce a U.K. rollout.  Everything Everywhere, which has applied to regulators to
run the faster services on its existing airwaves, will start the
commercial service on a small scale for mobile broadband access
before expanding the offering, Chief Executive Officer Olaf Swantee said yesterday in London. Swantee is set to attend the
Mobile World Congress in Barcelona next week.  “Subject to regulatory approval by springtime, Everything
Everywhere will be in a position to roll out 4G services before
the end of the year,” Swantee said. “The service will help the
U.K.” to get back in line with other markets.  By deploying faster services early, Everything Everywhere
will move ahead of  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Telefonica SA (TEF) , which
are waiting for more frequencies to become available before
starting their own services. The carriers are seeking to offer
high-speed services to persuade subscribers to use more
applications on smartphones including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
handsets using Google Inc.’s Android system.  British regulator Ofcom told Everything Everywhere last
month that its application to use its existing spectrum would be
considered in the first quarter of 2012. The watchdog has
already granted a trial license.  “They have to take into account the competition
consequences,” said Kip Meek, who advises Everything Everywhere
and who formerly worked for Ofcom. “If they do it poorly then
they will be litigated.”  France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom merged their U.K.
operations in 2010, creating the country’s largest mobile
operator by leapfrogging Telefonica’s O2 unit. The deal took the
U.K. from five full-service mobile operators to four, in line
with Italy, Spain and Germany.  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s 3 unit will also have access to
the new services as part of its existing agreement with the
operator, Swantee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  