-- Ex-KBR CEO Stanley Gets 2 1/2 Years in Prison for Foreign Bribes
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-24T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/ex-kbr-ceo-albert-stanley-gets-30-month-prison-term-in-nigeria-bribe-case.html
Albert “Jack” Stanley, the former
 KBR Inc. (KBR)  chief executive officer, was sentenced to 2 1/2 years
in prison for bribing Nigerian officials to win $6 billion
in natural gas contracts for the company and its partners.  U.S. District Judge  Keith Ellison , who handed down the
sentence yesterday in Houston, also sentenced Stanley, 69, to
three years of supervised probation.  Stanley pleaded guilty in September 2008 to violating the
U.S. anti-bribery law, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and
agreed to make restitution of $10.8 million, of which $1.55
million remains to be paid. He faced as long as seven years in
prison under the terms of his cooperation agreement.  Larry Veselka, Stanley’s lawyer, asked that his client be
sentenced to house arrest instead of prison, saying Stanley’s
cooperation resulted in eight felony guilty pleas, four
deferred-prosecution agreements and fines of $1.7 billion.  Stanley was “the linchpin, the foundation of the largest,
most successful FCPA investigation ever,” Veselka said.  “That’s a double-edged sword,” Ellison replied of the
record fines resulting from the Nigerian bribery investigation.
“It’s the largest because it was the greatest corruption,
wasn’t it?”  Two former consultants for Houston-based KBR who
facilitated the scheme also pleaded guilty and have been
sentenced for their roles in a plot to bribe Nigerian government
officials with $180 million from 1994 to 2004.  Jeffrey Tesler, a 63-year-old U.K. lawyer, was sentenced to
21 months in prison, two years’ supervised release, a $25,000
fine and forfeiture of $149 million earlier yesterday in
Houston. Wojciech Chodan, 74, was sentenced Feb. 22 to a year of
unsupervised probation and a $20,000 fine.  Defendants Extradited  Tesler, a dual U.K. and Israeli citizen, had faced as long
as 10 years in prison and Chodan, who is British, as long as
five years under their plea deals. Both men were extradited from
the U.K. to face charges in the U.S.  KBR, which was spun off in 2007 from Houston-based
 Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the oilfield services company, agreed in
February 2009 to pay $579 million to resolve criminal charges
and civil claims by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
that it orchestrated a 10-year bribery scheme on behalf of its
joint-venture partners in Nigeria’s Bonny Island liquefied
natural gas facility.  In June 2010, Paris-based  Technip SA (TEC) ,  Europe ’s second-
largest oilfield services provider, agreed to pay $338 million
to avoid prosecution and resolve SEC claims that it, along with
KBR, violated the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, an anti-
bribery statute.  A month later, the Dutch engineering firm Snamprogetti
Netherlands BV, a venture partner, agreed to pay $365 million
with the help of former parent company  Eni SpA (ENI)  to settle
criminal and civil allegations related to the scheme.  In April 2011, JGC Corp., a Tokyo-based construction and
engineering company, agreed to pay a $218.8 million criminal
penalty to avoid prosecution for its role.  Nigerian Probe  Nigeria started an anti-corruption probe that resulted in
charges against several current and former KBR and Halliburton
executives, including former U.S. Vice President  Dick Cheney ,
who was CEO of Halliburton from 1995 to 2000. Halliburton agreed
in December 2010 to pay $35 million to settle the allegations,
and the charges were dropped.  Stanley asked the judge for leniency, saying he’d been
raised on “traditional American values of hard work, honesty
and integrity.”  “But somewhere along the way my values were compromised,
through ambition, ego or alcoholism,” Stanley said. “Somewhere
along the way, I lost touch with Jack Stanley.”  Patrick Stokes , a prosecutor helping lead the  Justice
Department ’s FCPA enforcement push, said while Stanley deserved
credit for cooperating, the former KBR chief initially thwarted
the investigation.  “Mr. Stanley was the leader of a gigantic fraud” who
stole almost $11 million from KBR in a separate kickback scheme,
Stokes said. He asked Ellison to give Stanley at least several
years in prison to “send a message” to “someone who might be
sitting in the corner suite, making decisions to steal money
from his company.”  Sympathetic to Stanley  Ellison said he was sympathetic to Stanley and Tesler, both
of whom are well-educated, white-collar executives in their 60s.
He said he’d seen studies indicating prison is harder and less
effective on such defendants than it is on lower-income
criminals. There should be a more productive way to use the
men’s professional skills to improve society rather than just
imprison them, he said at the hearing.  “This case illustrates why we need a better system of
incarceration,” Ellison said. He added he was “reluctant” to
make distinctions between ordinary street crimes and “the
crimes of rich people.”  The judge apologized to Tesler after sentencing him, saying
that while he liked the British lawyer “enormously as a human
being,” he felt a prison sentence was required to send a
message to other executives who might be considering paying
bribes to win business in corrupt countries.  “The offense is serious and violations of this magnitude
do have consequences,” Ellison said. “The excuse that
everybody’s doing it” or the fact that the accused led an
otherwise commendable life shouldn’t carry more weight in a
white-collar case than in a routine drug bust, he said.  Accepted Business Practice  Ellison questioned defense lawyers whether bribery remains
an accepted business practice in  Nigeria  and whether he should
take into consideration the fact KBR’s scheme was largely shut
down by the time the U.S. began enforcing the FCPA statute
aggressively in 2008.  “It was a fact of life and continues to be a fact of life
in Nigeria,” Brad Simon, Tesler’s lawyer told Ellison of
widespread bribery in the African nation. “The message wasn’t
out there” that the U.S. was intolerant of corruption when this
scheme was under way, he said.  “It was a very different world, and people were not
conscious of FCPA,” Simon said. “The message is out there loud
and clear now.’”  “Don’t you think the message is out there on cocaine and
heroin, and we still sentence those people to very long
sentences,” Ellison replied.  Stanley and Tesler will remain free on bond until they
report to prisons, which the Bureau of Prisons will assign.
Tesler’s lawyer said he may ask the court to serve some of his
sentence in the U.K.  The cases are U.S. v. Stanley, 08-cr-00597; U.S. v. Tesler,
09-cr-00098; U.S. v. Kellogg Brown & Root LLC, 09-cr-00071; U.S.
v. Technip, 10-cr-00439; U.S. v. Snamprogetti Netherlands, 10-
cr-00460; and U.S. v.  JGC Corp. (1963) , 11-cr-00260, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 