-- Expert Networker Kinnucan Can Be Freed on $5 Million Bond
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-02-23T23:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/expert-networker-john-kinnucan-s-release-delayed-by-judge-1-.html
A federal judge in  Manhattan  ruled
that John Kinnucan, the Broadband Research LLC founder indicted
for insider trading, can be freed on $5 million bond, rejecting
prosecutors’ claims he engaged in a “campaign” of threats.  U.S. District Judge  Deborah Batts  agreed to release
Kinnucan on the bond, ordering it be secured by $100,000 cash
and property and signed by four financially-responsible people.  Prosecutors today argued Kinnucan, 54, posed a danger to
the community and a threat to authorities handling his case,
citing at least 24 menacing voice-mail messages he left after
hours at the office phones of federal prosecutors and  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  agents and also at the homes of two
cooperating witnesses during the last two months.  Batts said prosecutors had come “extremely close” to
convincing her he should remain in custody before trial because
he posed a danger to the community, prosecutors and agents.  “The vile, filthy, inflammatory, insulting language the
defendant has used frequently with officers of the government,
and even worse with potential witnesses against him, is mind-
boggling,” she said in court. “However reading it, I cannot
say there is direct threat, although he is certainly
intimidating people or attempting to do so.”  No Devices  Batts agreed with prosecutors to place restrictions upon
Kinnucan, prohibiting him from using the telephone or computer
to contact anyone except his lawyer.  “What you have done is disgraceful,” Batts told Kinnucan.
“The defendant is to have no contact with any device, no
computer, no cell phones, no regular phones. He is not to have
contact with anyone. If you call anyone, if you use any kind of
device, you will be remanded,” she said.  “Yes, your honor,” said Kinnucan, who attended the
hearing in federal court in  Oregon  with his court-appointed
lawyer, via a videoconference hookup.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Chris LaVigne in court today played
excerpts of six invective and anti-Semitic-filled voice-mails.  “Too bad Hitler is not around, you should be in the gas
chamber,” Kinnucan said in one message on a federal
prosecutor’s office phone in December.  Making Threats  LaVigne argued the defendant now has even more incentive to
act upon his threats, noting that Kinnucan made his calls before
his Feb. 16 arrest. He also said there was precedent for pre-
trial holding a defendant who’d threatened prosecutors and
agents, citing the case of Gambino crime family boss John Gotti.  “In the last two months Mr. Kinnucan has engaged in a
campaign of obstruction, harassment and intimidation,” LaVigne
said. “These are the actions of a calculated man dead set upon
acting.”  Thomas Hester, Kinnucan’s court-appointed lawyer in Oregon,
argued his client was “no John Gotti” and had recently been
under stress, which triggered the recent spate of calls,
including the recent deaths of two brothers and his mother. He
also said there was “antipathy” between his client and the
government because Kinnucan felt he was the target of the
investigation.  Kinnucan had been examined by a doctor after his arrest who
determined he may be suffering from “dis-inhibition triggered
by alcohol.” Hester said Kinnucan’s wife told him her husband
recently began drinking between two to three bottles of wine a
day.  ‘Plain Wrong’  “The messages he left are indefensible, they are filled
with invective, and they are plain wrong and he apologizes,”
Hester said.  Hester cited the ruling from the federal judge in Oregon
who granted his release, saying the calls were “an aberration
resulting from numerous stressors and a reaction to his
situation.”  After saying he was approached by two FBI agents, Kinnucan
in November 2010 publicly announced he rebuffed federal agents
attempting to win his cooperation in a U.S.  insider trading 
investigation being conducted by the FBI’s  New York  office and
the Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s Office.  “I never did answer your subpoena, I f----d up your
investigation,” Kinnucan said in a voice-mail for one of the
agents with the FBI who approached him in Oct. 2010. “You
thought you’d f---k with me, I shut down your whole
investigation, ha, ha, ha.”  Kinnucan has been in U.S. custody since he was arrested
Feb. 16 at his home in  Portland  Oregon. Batts yesterday ordered
Kinnucan detained until she reviewed an order issued from U.S.
District Judge Janice Stewart in Portland, Oregon, releasing
Kinnucan.  Foreclosure  Kinnucan has lost most of his clients when news of the
federal probe first broke in late 2010 and is in the midst of
having his home foreclosed, Hester said today.  Batts ordered Kinnucan to appear in federal court in New
York on March 5 and directed that he notify prosecutors of his
travel itinerary and where he will be staying in New York.  “When he is coming, how he is coming, where he is staying,
when he’s leaving and how he’s leaving,” she said.  Prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in
Manhattan won an indictment of Kinnucan on Feb. 21. He is
accused of passing inside tips to hedge fund clients about
 SanDisk Corp. (SNDK) ,  OmniVision Technologies Inc. (OVTI)  and other companies.  The case is U.S. v. Kinnucan, 12-cv-163, U.S District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 