-- Exports Key to U.S. Agriculture Growth, Ex-USDA Leaders Say
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-02-23T17:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/exports-key-to-growth-in-u-s-agriculture-ex-usda-leaders-say.html
The U.S. will need to step up
efforts to sell surplus farm production overseas if the country
hopes to preserve this year’s record profit and exports, former
U.S. Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter said.  Trade, especially with prospering Asian nations, will be
crucial to securing markets for U.S. farm goods, said Yeutter,
who served under President  George H.W. Bush  and later became the
U.S. trade representative. He was one of seven former
secretaries who spoke today at a panel discussion on the future
of agriculture at a government forum in Arlington, Virginia. The
U.S. is the world’s largest agricultural exporter.  “I want to be sure we don’t get lulled into complacency by
thinking we can sell everything we produce here in the U.S.,”
Yeutter said.  Farm exports in the year that began Oct. 1 will be $131
billion, surpassed only by record shipments a year earlier,  Joe Glauber , the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s chief economist,
said at the forum. Farmer net income will reach  $91.7 billion 
this year, second only to last year’s $98.1 billion, the USDA
said on Feb. 13.  Farmland values  have also reached records.  Higher Productivity Needed  Higher productivity will be necessary to meet world food
needs, with the global population expected to increase by more
than 2 billion by 2050, said John Block, who served under
President  Ronald Reagan . Grain stockpiles at the end of this
marketing year may total  471.7  million metric tons, 1.6 percent
more than last year, the USDA said Feb. 9. World food prices
that reached a record in February 2011 contributed to uprisings
in North African and Middle East nations.  “Modern commercial agriculture is what is feeding the
world now,” said Block, who criticized opponents of biotech
crops that are resistant to drought. U.S. farmers may plant 94
million acres of corn this year, the most since World War II,
Glauber said earlier today.  In domestic policy, U.S. farmers will need to get by with
fewer subsidies and be more responsive to interests of groups
outside agriculture, said Mike Espy and Dan Glickman, both
secretaries under President  Bill Clinton .  USDA spending would rise 2.5 percent to $154.5 billion in
the year starting Oct. 1 before crop-subsidy cuts kick in,
beginning long-term reductions in farmer aid, according to the
budget President  Barack Obama  sent to Congress Feb. 13.
Subsidies would fall by $32 billion over 10 years under that
proposal, which lawmakers may consider as White House guidance
as they forge a new five-year farm bill to replace the one that
expires Sept. 30.  Farm Bill  U.S. Senator Mike Johanns, a Republican from  Nebraska  who
led USDA under President George W. Bush, said he is optimistic
that the Senate will approve a farm bill, while the
legislation’s fate in the  House of Representatives  “is much
more unpredictable.”  Subsidies predicted to reach $11 billion in 2012 are under
scrutiny as Congress begins crafting the legislation, which will
authorize spending for all USDA programs, including farmer
payments,  food stamps  and rural development. The payments, while
providing a safety net for farmers, encourage production and
lower commodity costs for Cargill Inc. and  Archer Daniels
Midland Co. (ADM)   Subsidies are “not the only issue we should be talking
about,” Glickman said. “The biggest challenge is our research
budget,” he said. “You look at the world 20 and 30 and 40
years out, you wonder, do we have the ability to have another
 Green Revolution ” that can boost productivity to meet global
needs, he said.  The panel also included Ann Veneman and Ed Schafer, who
both served under  George W. Bush .  Including the moderator, Tom Vilsack, the current USDA
chief, the panel represented more than a quarter of all the
secretaries in the agency’s 150-year history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 