-- EZchip Jumps to Record in N.Y. as Competitors Bought Out: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-02-23T22:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/ezchip-jumps-to-record-in-n-y-as-competitors-bought-out-israel-overnight.html
EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH)  soared to
a record high in New York yesterday on speculation the Israeli
chipmaker will be bought after competitors were acquired over
the past two months.  The Yokneam, Israel-based company, whose biggest  customers 
include Juniper Networks Inc. and Cisco Systems Inc., advanced
2.5 percent to $40.26, sending valuations to 30.6 times
estimated earnings, nearly  twice  the average level for companies
on the Nasdaq Composite Index. The  Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index (ISRA25BN) 
of the largest Israeli companies listed in New York climbed 0.5
percent to 86.50, led by  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA)   EZchip (EZCH)  may become a buyout target even after forecasting
that first-quarter revenue will remain steady from the fourth
quarter, according to Chardan Capital Markets LLC.  Marvell
Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) , maker of the BlackBerry smartphone
processor, bought Xelerated AB last month, and  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) ,
which makes chips that help mobile devices connect to the
Internet, acquired NetLogic Microsystems Inc. on Feb. 17.  “The reason the stock has had such a run up is that people
are expecting that the company is going to be acquired,”  Jay Srivatsa  at Chardan, which has a “neutral” rating on EZchip’s
U.S.-listed shares, said by phone in New York yesterday.
“EZchip guided a very weak first quarter and it’s still very
expensive. Still, it seems like investors don’t want to miss out
on an opportunity.”  EZchip Chief Executive Officer Eli Fruchter declined to
comment on a possible buyout when contacted by e-mail yesterday.  Smartphone Technology  EZchip, whose products allow for quicker data delivery,
added 3.3 percent to 146 shekels in  Tel Aviv  yesterday, or the
equivalent of $38.97.  The chipmaker has surged 40 percent in New York over the
past year,  outperforming  the  Nasdaq  benchmark, which climbed 8.6
percent, after demand for its processors rose as an increasing
number of consumers use smartphones and handsets to surf the
Web, play games and download music and videos.  “This network processor company is poised to grow revenue
and earnings rapidly as its next-generation product ramps up,”
Andrew Uerkwitz, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York
said by phone. “There has always been acquisition pressure that
has lifted EZchip due to the growth potential.”  Uerkwitz rated the shares “perform” saying the company is
“fully valued” after the rally.  ‘Flat’ Revenue  EZchip reported a fourth-quarter net loss of $5.95 million
on Feb. 8, compared with net income of $4.03 million in the same
period last year. The company incurred a one-time charge for
repaying $9.9 million to the Israeli Office of the Chief
Scientist, a government unit that support local companies’
research and development.  “With regards to guidance for the coming quarter, we
expect revenues to be flat to slightly down,” CEO Fruchter told
analysts on a call after reporting earnings.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq,
the most of any country outside the U.S. after  China . The nation
is also home to more startup companies per capita than the U.S.  Gazit-Globe Ltd. (GZT) , the Israeli real estate company that
listed shares on the New York Stock Exchange on Dec. 13,
declined 3.9 percent to $9.99 after its shares in Tel Aviv
retreated 2.6 percent to 37.81 shekels, or the equivalent of
$10.09.  Equity One Inc. (EQY) , the U.S. unit of Gazit-Globe, reported
a net loss of 4 cents per diluted share during the fourth
quarter, after posting a profit of 9 cents for the same period
last year.  Convertible Bonds  SodaStream, an Airport City, Israel-based homemade soda
machine maker, climbed 7.1 percent to $41.79, the most in more
than a month.  Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (TSEM) , a chipmaker,  dropped  3.8 percent
to 77 cents, declining 12 percent in the week. Shares in Tel
Aviv retreated 4.2 percent to 2.91 shekels, or the equivalent of
78 cents.  The Migdal Haemek, Israel-based company raised $64 million
from Israeli institutional investors in a convertible bond
offering, according to a Feb. 20 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in  New York  at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  