-- MF Global Claims, Keydata-FSA, Peacocks Sale, Madoff: Bankruptcy
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S c i n t a
-- 2012-02-23T09:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/mf-global-claims-keydata-fsa-peacocks-sale-madoff-bankruptcy.html
MF Global Inc. customers who had
money trapped when the U.S. broker collapsed can sell their
claims for as much as 88 cents on the dollar, while clients of
its British unit may not get as much.  MF Global’s customers have started to sell their claims to
distressed debt investors, including  hedge funds , to get some
money quickly, rather than waiting for payouts from the trustee
in New York and U.K. administrators.  The lower value of U.K. claims reflects the slower return
of funds and disputes about the status of the  London  unit’s
customer accounts.  James Nicholls , a London lawyer specializing
in insolvency and claims trading, has seen U.K. customers
offered 70 percent to 77 percent of face value for their claims.  “The client account protection rules don’t work in this
country the way they are supposed to,” he said in a phone
interview.  When  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , the broker’s parent company,
declared bankruptcy in October after bets on European sovereign
debt resulted in margin calls, thousands of customers had money
trapped in trading accounts. Customers on both sides of the
Atlantic face a lengthy wait for refunds amid an investigation
into how cash went missing from U.S. accounts, leaving an
estimated $1.6 billion shortfall.  The return of customer funds has been faster in the U.S.,
where James Giddens, the trustee for the  New York  brokerage, has
returned about $3.9 billion, or 72 percent of the total. KPMG
LLP, the administrator of the U.K. unit, is this month planning
to pay back about $400 million, or 26 percent of money in
protected accounts.  Keydata Founder Seeks Probe Ban on FSA Workers Who Saw E-Mails  Keydata Investment Services Ltd.’s founder told a judge the
Financial Services Authority should exclude from its probe of
the company anyone who saw protected attorney-client e-mails
improperly obtained by the U.K. regulator.  The FSA, which lost a ruling over the e-mails in October,
should also hand over communications with other agencies to
which it sent the material, including the  Serious Fraud Office 
and the Insolvency Service in Britain and financial watchdogs in
Luxembourg and the  Cayman Islands , lawyers for Stewart Ford said
at a hearing in London.  “We want to know who at the FSA has seen the material,”
said Hodge Malek, one of Ford’s lawyers. “We say those people
should be taken off the case.”  Keydata administered 2.8 billion pounds ($4.4 billion) of
assets when the FSA asked a court to place it in administration
in 2009. The watchdog had started investigating the company two
years earlier, examining whether it targeted investors with
potentially misleading advertisements, and for tax
irregularities.  The e-mails sent by Ford and other directors to legal
advisers were covered by the attorney-client privilege and
improperly obtained by the FSA, Judge Ian Burnett ruled in
October. The so-called judicial review prompted the regulator to
suspend its four-year-old investigation into Keydata.  Peacocks Administrators Sell Business to Edinburgh Woollen Mill  Peacocks’s administrators at KPMG announced the sale of the
business to Edinburgh Woollen Mill Ltd.  Edinburgh Woollen Mill bought the Peacocks brand, 388
stores and concessions, as well as the headquarters and
logistics functions in  Wales . The remaining 224 stores stopped
trading, resulting in 3,100 redundancies, KPMG said in an e-
mailed statement.  UniCredit Wins Order Dismissing Some of Madoff Trustee’s Claims  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  won a ruling dismissing racketeering and
other claims filed by the trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s
shuttered firm, narrowing the trustee’s suit against the bank.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  threw out
claims by the trustee,  Irving Picard , against UniCredit, Pioneer
Global Asset Management SpA,  UniCredit Bank Austria AG (BACA)  and
Alessandro Profumo, Milan-based UniCredit’s former chief
executive officer. The ruling, which wasn’t released publicly,
was faxed to attorneys in the case.  Picard’s claims under the racketeering statute, which
allows for triple damages, accounted for most of the $59 billion
he demanded. Rakoff also dismissed common-law claims including
unjust enrichment. He directed that the remaining claims be
returned to  bankruptcy court .  Picard’s racketeering claims that the defendants “fed,
perpetuated and profited from” Madoff’s  Ponzi scheme  is a
“casual assertion” that fails to establish a direct enough
relationship between the alleged criminal acts and resulting
injuries, Rakoff wrote in the opinion.  Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal
prison in  North Carolina  for running a Ponzi scheme.  Shandong Helon Plans to Repay Debts With Power Plants, Land  Shandong Helon Co., the fiber maker that was  China ’s first
company to lose its investment-grade  credit rating , said its
Xinjiang unit reached an agreement to repay debts by handing
over  power plants  and land.  The two plants, each with capacity of 15 megawatts, and the
land they were built on, will be used to repay 253 million yuan
($40 million) of borrowings to Xinjiang Talimu Agriculture
Development, Shandong Helon said in a statement to the Shenzhen
Stock Exchange.  Shares (000677)  of Shandong Helon have been suspended since August
when the company said it had discovered a matter that may have a
“relatively large” impact on its stock price and which hadn’t
been disclosed. The company said in June the securities
regulator had started investigating the company on suspicion of
a violation of  securities law .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  