-- Facebook Insiders Push $100 Billion Value
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-02-23T14:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/facebook-insiders-limit-ipo-by-pushing-100-billion-value-tech.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  is already trading
like a public company as insiders and wealthy investors use
private marketplaces to buy and sell stock in the social-
networking company ahead of its initial offering.  The shareholder base has grown to more than 1,000, compared
with the 50 to 100 investors most companies have when they go
public, according to an estimate by Sam Hamadeh, head of
research firm PrivCo. Private purchases pushed Facebook’s
valuation past $100 billion this month, possibly limiting
immediate gains for IPO investors, given that Facebook may seek
a $75 billion to $100 billion value.  “Facebook is a blue-chip stock and it’s not even public
yet,” said  Kevin Landis , portfolio manager for the Firsthand
Technology Value Fund in  San Jose ,  California . Facebook jumped
as high as $44 this month in private trading, valuing the
company at $103 billion and leaving it higher than when Landis
bought stock at about $30 to $31 in October. He said he aims to
add to his holdings.  While demand for the biggest Internet IPO on record may
push the stock even higher when Facebook goes public, private
trades through channels such as SecondMarket Inc. and SharesPost
Inc. are already making it possible for employees and venture
capitalists to cash out. That may have lessened pressure on
Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  to hold an IPO before
this year.  Secondary Offering  Facebook, which filed for an initial share sale this month,
has yet to set its  price range  for the IPO. People with
knowledge of the matter said earlier this year that Zuckerberg
was weighing a valuation of as much as $100 billion.  Larry Yu, a spokesman for  Menlo Park ,  California-based
Facebook , declined to comment.  The private trading may make Facebook’s debut more like a
secondary offering, where holders sell stock in an already
public company, said  Barry Ritholtz , CEO of FusionIQ, an
equities research firm.  “The people buying now at the IPO price are presuming
there’s lots of upside -- I’m skeptical,” said Ritholtz, whose
firm is based in  New York . “There’s a lot of smart money
agitating for the highest possible valuation, and they don’t
necessarily have the investing public’s best interest at
heart.”  Insiders and investors with $1 million of net worth and a
salary of more than $200,000 can qualify to buy stock on private
marketplaces, according to U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission rules. In an auction this week on SharesPost,
Facebook stock had a clearing price of $42, valuing the company
at $98 billion.  Higher Value?  Widely traded private companies that held IPOs in 2011
traded at about 25 percent to 30 percent less than their
eventual IPO price in the two months prior to going public,
according to Ori Bash, a vice president at  Pluris Valuation
Advisors . Facebook may see a smaller gain because it has been
traded more, owned by larger investors and researched more
thoroughly than other private companies, Bash said. It’s also
possible the shares will continue to surge, he said.  “If these private-market trades are truly reflective of
Facebook’s valuation, there’s a possibility that demand for the
IPO shares could drive it even higher than its anticipated $100
billion valuation,” Bash said.  LinkedIn Corp. (LKND) , which had 560 shareholders of record as of
April 15, 2011, was valued at $35 a share in private trading in
March of that year, two months before the IPO. The company’s
initial public offering priced 29 percent higher in May at $45,
giving it a valuation of $4.25 billion. Shares more than doubled
to close at $94.25 on the first day of trading.  Early Investors Win  The shareholders who got into Facebook earliest --including
the hundreds of employees who received restricted stock units as
part of their compensation packages -- will see the most gains,
said Larry Albukerk, a broker of private securities.  Based on private-market trading, Facebook is “realizing
full value at the IPO, which is the goal of all companies,” he
said. “They don’t want to leave money on the table. Do the RSU
holders and current shareholders benefit? Absolutely.”  Private markets have emerged since the tech boom of the
late 1990s and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s IPO in 2004. SharesPost, based in
San Bruno, California, began in 2009, and SecondMarket predates
SharesPost, offering private share transactions since 2008.
Since the start of the service, New York-based SecondMarket’s
private-market stock trades have topped $1 billion. Facebook is
planning to raise $5 billion with its IPO.  Pricier Than LinkedIn  While the private markets are giving investors a better
idea of where the public market prices shares, they don’t
completely replicate the Nasdaq Stock Market or New York Stock
Exchange, said Landis, the portfolio manager.  “The idea that it should give you the perfect indication
on price -- i.e. there would be zero bounce because it’s
perfectly priced in -- I’m not sure I’d buy that,” he said.  Facebook’s sales surged 88 percent to $3.71 billion in
2011, according to the IPO filing, and may climb to $6.1 billion
this year, EMarketer Inc. estimates show.  At $100 billion, the company would be valued at about 27
times last year’s sales, almost double the 14.5 times trailing
12-month sales at which professional-networking service LinkedIn
Corp. went public in May. It’s almost triple the multiple of 9.8
times implied by online coupon-company  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) ’s IPO price
in November, and four times social-gaming provider Zynga Inc.’s
multiple of 6.8 times at its December IPO, Bloomberg data show.  Facebook has 1,070 Class B shareholders based on its latest
filing, almost double the tally for LinkedIn ahead of its IPO,
according to regulatory filings.  “Arguably, given the number of investors that are already
in Facebook, that IPO has already occurred,”  Mark Mahaney , an
analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in an interview on Bloomberg
Radio this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  