-- Fisher Says Talk of More Quantitative Easing by Fed Is ‘Wishful Thinking’
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-02-23T15:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/fed-s-fisher-says-more-qe-is-wishful-thinking-by-wall-street.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said additional asset purchases by the
central bank are unnecessary and calls for such a move are
“wishful thinking” by  Wall Street .  “Our job is not to prop up the Street,” Fisher said today
in an interview on CNBC. “We are working on the real economy.”
Some investment professionals appear to have “wishful
thinking” for more accommodation, he said.  Fisher said he disagreed with the  Federal Open Market
Committee’s (FDTR)  Jan. 25 pledge to keep rates near zero at least
through late 2014, extending a previous date of mid-2013 or
later. The committee, in a policy statement, said the economy
was expanding “moderately, notwithstanding some slowing in
global growth,” which posed “significant downside risks.”  “I thought the statement was talking down the economy”
amid recent improvement, Fisher said. He said he views the 2014
pledge as “that rates will stay low for as long as it is
practicable,” or “until we see improvement in the economy.”  The Dallas Fed president, who doesn’t vote on policy this
year, has been among the most vocal internal Fed critics,
dissenting last year twice against moves to push down long-term
rates and to keep the benchmark U.S.  interest rate  near zero
until at least mid-2013. He voted five times in 2008 in favor of
tighter policy.  “The tone is a lot better” for economic data, including
today’s report that the number of Americans filing first-time
claims for unemployment insurance payments last week held at a
four-year low, Fisher said in the televised interview. “Things
are getting better, not worse.”  Signs of Improvement  “I don’t see a need personally” for more asset purchases,
Fisher said. The housing market, a focus for improvement through
quantitative easing, has shown signs of improvement, he said.  “We’re seeing the housing market regain its footing”
based on recent data, Fisher said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at
1,356.87 in  New York  at 10:33 a.m., while yields on 10-year
Treasury notes rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 2.01 percent.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said during a press conference
after the Jan. 25 FOMC meeting that the Fed is keeping the
option open of buying more bonds. The central bank pushed down
the main interest rate close to zero in December 2008 and has
engaged in two rounds of asset purchases totaling $2.3 trillion
to boost the economy and reduce the jobless rate of more than 8
percent.  Fisher, 62, has been president of the Dallas Fed since
2005. His district includes  Texas , northern  Louisiana  and
southern  New Mexico .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  