-- Federer Wants to Meet Lin After Point Guard Propels Knicks to 8-2 Record
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-02-23T21:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/federer-wants-to-meet-lin-after-point-guard-propels-knicks-to-8-2-record.html
Even 16-time Grand Slam tennis
champion  Roger Federer  says he has been inspired by the New York
Knicks’ Jeremy Lin.  Federer, who like Lin has an endorsement deal with  Nike
Inc. (NKE) , said today that he would like to meet the 23-year-old
point guard. Undrafted out of  Harvard University  and cut by two
National Basketball Association teams, Lin has led the Knicks to
a 8-2 record since becoming a starter on Feb. 6 against the  Utah
Jazz .  “That he was able to help the Knicks come through in the
way he did is a great thing,” Federer, 30, said today on a
conference call promoting a March 5 tennis exhibition at Madison
Square Garden, which also is the Knicks’ home arena. “I hope to
meet him when I come to  New York .”  Lin has averaged 23.8 points, 9.4 assists and 3.8 rebounds
in 10 games as a starter. An unidentified person in the New York
area paid $42,388 in a charity auction for a package that
included a game-worn Lin jersey, Knicks tickets and a chance to
meet the player, whose presence has raised ticket prices as much
as three times their value prior to his emergence.  “I think it’s quite an incredible story,” Federer said.
“I hope he can come to the exhibition, I think it would be
great.”  Federer will play  Andy Roddick  in the March 5 appearance.
The Knicks have four road games that week, including March 4
against the  Boston Celtics  and March 6 at the defending-champion
Dallas Mavericks.  Ranked No. 3 on the ATP World Tour, Federer held the
world’s top ranking for a record 237 consecutive weeks from 2004
to 2008. Federer said Lin’s story is “why we all follow
sports.”  “All of a sudden someone breaks through that you didn’t
know or didn’t expect and you didn’t know the result was going
to happen,” Federer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  