-- Fonciere des Regions Profit Rises on Lower Italian Taxes
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-02-23T17:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/fonciere-des-regions-profit-gains-as-italian-unit-becomes-a-reit.html
Fonciere des Regions SA ,  France ’s
second-largest publicly traded office landlord, said full-year
earnings before items rose 3.7 percent as its Italian unit
qualified for tax exemptions and borrowing costs fell.  Earnings excluding changes in property values and one-time
items, known as recurring profit, rose to 288.1 million euros
($382 million), or 5.23 euros a share, the Metz-based company
known as FDR said today in a statement. That compared with 277.8
million euros, or 5.33 euros a share a year earlier.  Analysts expected earnings of 5.22 euros a share, the
average of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Chief Executive
Officer Christophe Kullmann plans to use the proceeds from
divestments to cut debt and invest in a 1 billion-euro
development program.  “We beat our targets for 2011,” Kullmann said in the
statement. He predicted a “slight” gain in recurring profit
this year.  FDR shares declined 40 cents to 54 euros in Paris. The
shares climbed 25 percent in the three months through yesterday.
That compares with a gain of 16 percent for the French REITs
index compiled by Amsterdam-based Global Property Research.  Tax fell by 18.8 million euros as  Beni Stabili SpA (BNS) , the
Italian office owner that FDR controls, qualified for exemptions
as an Italian real estate investment trust. Borrowing costs
declined by 5 percent after a loan was refinanced.  Property Sales  FDR raised 611 million euros from the  sale of properties 
last year. The proceeds cut net debt to 49.3 percent of the
value of FDR’s real estate from 50.4 percent a year earlier.  Net rental income declined 3.7 percent following asset
sales. Income generated by properties owned through last year
advanced 2.2 percent, the company said.  Net asset value rose 2.8 percent to 83.1 euros a share.  Net
income (FDR)  totaled 349.5 million euros compared with 627.2 million
euros a year earlier. The company said it will pay a dividend of
4.2 euros a share, which investors may receive in stock.  FDR controls real estate in France, Italy and Germany
through its holdings in other REITs.  Other FDR assets include stakes in  Fonciere des Murs SA , a
REIT specialized in sale and leasebacks; warehouse owner
 Fonciere Europe Logistique SCA (FEL) ; and  Fonciere Developpement
Logements SA (FDL) , a residential investment trust. FDR also has a 9.3
percent holding in  Altarea SA (ALTA) , France’s biggest out-of-town big
box retail-park developer, and controls parking lot owner Parcs
GFR.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 