-- For-Profit Colleges Get Half of Military Education Benefits
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-02-23T23:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/for-profit-colleges-get-half-of-military-education-benefits.html
For-profit colleges are getting
almost one of every two military Tuition Assistance dollars,
according to data from the U.S. Department of Defense.  The for-profit college industry received $279.8 million of
about $563 million spent last year on the program, according to
analysis released today by the U.S.  Senate Committee  on Health,
Education, Labor and Pensions. Public colleges received $163.5
million, while nonprofit private schools got $119.4 million.  Congress and states’ attorneys general have been reviewing
sales practices and student debt loads at for-profit colleges,
which get as much as 90 percent of their revenue from federal
programs. Schools solicit troops partly because their government
tuition programs are excluded from that 90 percent cap. Senator
 Tom Harkin , a Democrat from  Iowa , has proposed legislation that
would include those funds to remove the extra incentive for
signing up soldiers.  “Today’s news that the DOD is paying more to for-profit
colleges than public and nonprofit institutions is highly
troubling,” the majority staff of the committee said in the
report, which cited misrepresentation of programs and tuition
costs, aggressive recruiting strategies and high drop-out rates
as “significant problems” in the industry.  ‘Significant Problems’  Six of the top 10 tuition assistance recipients are for-
profits --  American Public Education Inc. (APEI) ,  Bridgepoint Education
Inc. (BPI) , TUI Learning LLC,  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , Columbia Southern
University and Grantham University -- according to the report.  Tuition Assistance lets active-duty members of the military
take college classes, capped at $4,500 per year.  “We owe the men and women in our armed forces a tremendous
debt,” Harkin, chairman of the Senate committee, said in a
statement. “It is only fair that we do our part to help them
succeed by cracking down on unscrupulous companies that are
after their hard-earned benefits but not willing to provide them
a good education in exchange.”  That veterans are selecting private-sector colleges is
“hardly surprising,” with flexible class schedules that
address their needs as parents, full-time workers and students,
Steve Gunderson, president of the Washington-based   Association
of Private Sector Colleges and Universities , which represents
for-profit colleges, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Our career-oriented schools provide veterans with access
to training and skills-based education that allow our brave men
and women to transition successfully into civilian life. ”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janet Lorin in New York at 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  