-- Forest, Almirall Drug Wins Backing of FDA Panel Advisers
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-02-24T00:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/forest-almirall-lung-drug-wins-backing-of-fda-panel-advisers.html
Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  and
 Almirall SA (ALM) ’s experimental drug to help patients with a chronic
lung disease breathe more easily should be approved, a panel of
U.S. regulatory advisers said.  The panel voted 12-2 today to recommend approval of
aclidinium bromide, a twice-daily medication that reduces
complications stemming from chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease. The condition, typically caused by smoking, affects 12
million Americans and is the third-leading cause of death
nationwide,  according  to the National Institutes of Health.  In studies, the inhaled medication improved lung function
and reduced symptoms such as breathlessness, heaviness in the
chest, excessive mucus and cough for as much as 24 hours.
Patients taking the highest dose may have increased heart risks,
and additional studies are needed to confirm the drug’s long-
term safety, panel members said.  “In this population, where half the patients are still
smoking and have serious  lung disease , it’s impressive to be
able to show what the medication can do,” said Paul
Greenberger, professor of allergy and immunology at Northwestern
University Feinberg School of Medicine in  Chicago .  Critical Question  The critical question remains the cardiovascular risk, said
William Calhoun, vice chairman for research at the University of
 Texas  Medical Branch in Galveston, Texas. Most panel members
joined Calhoun in calling for a comprehensive registry or a one-
to two-year study to ensure there aren’t rare, serious side
effects stemming from the use of aclidinium bromide.  “I voted yes reluctantly,” said panel member Timothy
Lesar, director of clinical pharmacy services at Albany Medical
Center in New York. “There should be post-marketing studies to
see if the signal is a true problem with the drug.”  Forest rose 1.2 percent to $32.21 in  New York . Almirall,
based in Barcelona, fell less than 1 percent to 5.98 euros at
the close of trading in Madrid, before the vote was taken.
Forest, based in New York, has the rights to the treatment in
the U.S., while Almirall owns them in the rest of the world.  Aclidinium bromide blocks the contraction of smooth muscles
in the airways, letting the lungs dilate and allowing patients
with COPD breathe more easily. The condition typically worsens
over time, making patients feel as if they are starved for air.
The disease makes it hard to breathe during exercise and when
patients have a respiratory infection. There is no cure.  Inhaled treatments for COPD include Spiriva from Boehringer
Ingelheim GmbH and Pfizer Inc., used to reduce exacerbations of
the disease, and steroids such as  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Symbicort
and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Advair. London-based Glaxo is also
working with  Theravance Inc. (THRX) , based in  San Francisco , to develop
once-daily treatments, according to Theravance’s  website .  The FDA typically follows the advice of its advisory
panels, although it’s not required to do so. If the drug is
approved, it may generate $150 million in  sales  for Forest in
2015, according to the average of two analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  