-- Frankfurt Airport Labor Talks Resume as Flights Limited
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R i f f l e r
-- 2012-02-23T13:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/frankfurt-airport-labor-talks-resume-as-flights-limited-on-strike-recovery.html
Frankfurt airport ’s owner and its
ground-controllers union resumed contract talks as 13 percent of
the flights scheduled for today were scrapped amid the after-
effects of a strike.  Negotiations, scheduled to start at noon  Frankfurt  time,
will probably last at least until tomorrow, and “we have braced
ourselves for something longer,” Dirk Vogelsang, the chief
negotiator of the Gewerkschaft der Flugsicherung union, said in
a phone interview. Mike Schweitzer, a spokesman for airport
operator Fraport AG, declined to comment on the talks.  Airlines canceled 169 flights of the 1,260 planned for
today at Frankfurt, Europe’s third-busiest airport after  London
Heathrow  and Paris Charles de Gaulle, as it rebuilt operations
after ground controllers suspended their strike yesterday. The
GDF began the job action on Feb. 16, included controllers hadn’t
worked from early Feb. 20 until late yesterday.  The disruption has caused losses exceeding 10 million euros
($13 million) at  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , the dominant airline at
Frankfurt, and cost Fraport 6.5 million euros to 7 million euros
as of yesterday. Lufthansa,  Europe ’s second-biggest carrier, is
dropping more than 150 flights today, according to its website.
The airline expects normal service tomorrow, said Sandra Kraft,
a spokeswoman.  Dispute Terms  The dispute centers on the GdF’s demand that any
contracting out of taxiing and parking of aircraft be assigned
to a single company and on Fraport’s rejection of a mediator’s
proposal that the airport operator said would have phased in pay
raises of 26 percent to 53 percent by 2015.  Lufthansa (LHA) , which has been sending 1,000  text messages  a day
to inform passengers about the disruption, has estimated its
losses from the strike at the “double-digit million level,”
meaning more than 10 million euros.  Fraport  rose  as much as 0.2 percent to 46.10 euros and was
trading at 46.09 euros at 2:09 p.m. in Frankfurt. Lufthansa
 declined  1.3 percent to 10.35 euros.  The airport operator sought to maximize flights during the
strike by reassigning people with ground-control qualifications
from administrative posts. That helped lift the proportion of
scheduled services performed from 68 percent during the Feb. 16
walkout to 85 percent on Feb. 21. The figure would have exceeded
90 percent had the action continued, Fraport said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konstantin Riffler in Frankfurt at 
 kriffler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  