-- Iberdrola Resists Spain’s Push to Swallow Debt
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-02-24T16:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/galan-says-spain-should-slash-clean-power-aid-to-close-deficit.html
Iberdrola SA (IBE)  Chairman  Ignacio Galan 
is resisting the Spanish government’s campaign to make utilities
like his assume some of the 24 billion euros ($32 billion) in
debt that consumers owe to electricity producers.  Galan, head of  Spain ’s largest power generator, presented a
competing plan yesterday to close the gap between the industry’s
costs and what it’s allowed to charge. He would boost consumer
bills, impose a clean-power levy on fossil fuels and cut
subsidies for solar generators. Only one group escapes new
sacrifices under Galan’s plan: power companies like Iberdrola.  “We are already shouldering the burden,” Galan said at an
earnings press conference in Madrid that was largely devoted to
his criticism of power regulations. “You don’t call it a
sacrifice having financed the sums we’ve financed that were
nothing to do with us, and playing banker for the industry?”  Galan’s broadside capped a week of high-profile lobbying
from Spanish power companies that include  Gas Natural SDG SA (GAS) 
after Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria said Feb. 16 they will
have to assume some of the costs of balancing the books of the
power system. The accumulated debt swelled to an estimated 24
billion euros ($32 billion) by the end of 2011.  Iberdrola, which yesterday reported 2.8 billion euros in
2011 profit. fell for a fourth day in Madrid trading, losing 0.9
percent to 4.49 euros at 5:10 p.m. local time. The stock has
declined 7.1 percent this year compared with a 0.8 percent gain
in the  Euro Stoxx Utilities Index (SX6E) .  Soria, who took the minister’s job under a new Spanish
government elected in November, is battling to prevent that debt
from ending up on the government’s books after public accounts
were shredded by an economic slump heading into its fourth year.  Swollen by Subsidies  Spanish consumers were allowed to run up that debt because
previous administrations agreed that utilities should book more
revenue than they were permitted to collect. The gap accelerated
during the last five years, swollen by subsidies added to power
bills to support renewable  power plants , energy efficiency
projects and domestic coal mines.  While the five biggest power companies that finance the so-
called power-tariff deficit are allowed to collect it from power
bills over 15 years, the debt has snowballed.  Galan, 61, said financing the annual  deficit  has cost
Spanish power companies 1.1 billion euros because they pay more
to finance the debt in the  capital markets  than they earn in
interest from consumers.  Spain has shifted 12 billion euros of the debt of the 24
billion-euro estimated total from the industry’s balance sheets
by bundling the assets and selling them to investors through a
government-guaranteed fund.  Exceeding Legal Limit  The utilities’ lobby group, Unesa, estimates the deficit
will be 5.9 billion euros this year unless the government
addresses the imbalances in the system. The legal limit for this
year’s deficit is 1.5 billion euros.  Neither consumers, the government nor the power industry
can bridge on their own the gap in power rates, or tariffs,
Soria said during last week’s speech in Madrid.  “Nobody can think that any one of those can or should
unilaterally provide a solution to the tariff deficit,” he
said. “What we have to work on is a mix so that the burden is
distributed.”  The most likely solution may involve a levy on atomic and
hydroelectric plants owned by Iberdrola SA and  Endesa SA (ELE) ,
according to Shai Hill, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in
 London . He predicts the government will impose a “windfall
tax” of 15 euros a megawatt-hour on the two technologies,
costing Iberdrola 578 million euros a year and reducing its 2012
earnings per share by about 14 percent.  Share in Pain  “The power companies know they are going to be made to
share some of the pain,” Hill, who predicted a freeze in clean
energy subsidies that Spain announced on Jan. 27, said in an
interview. “Ongoing remuneration levels for low-cost generation
such as hydro and nuclear are going to get battered.”  The government has also considered capping wholesale power
prices, a move rejected by “all parties,” Iberdrola Business
Director Jose Luis  San Pedro  said today, while Deputy Prime
Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria last week declined two
invitations to rule out a so-called haircut for the tariff debt
utilities still hold on their books.  Unesa Chairman Eduardo Montes said Feb. 17 the industry
will sue the government if it tries to force utilities to take a
haircut on their power debt.  The Spanish system was designed to stabilize costs for
consumers by allowing the government to set prices based on the
regulator’s forecasts for each year.  Instead, successive governments failed either to raise
prices for consumers or lower payments for utilities when
revenue fell short of costs, leading to a spiral of deficits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  