-- Gas Swings at Two-Year High Expose U.K.’s LNG Dependence: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   B e n   F a r e y
-- 2012-02-23T11:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/gas-swings-at-two-year-high-expose-u-k-s-lng-dependence-energy-markets.html
Traders in U.K. natural gas are
grappling with the most changeable prices in more than two years
as investors weigh Britain’s growing dependence on imports and a
waning ability to respond to surges in demand.  Price swings in day-ahead gas, as measured by 30-day
historical volatility, more than tripled to 156 percent in the
two weeks to Feb. 13, the highest since October 2009, broker
prices compiled by Bloomberg show. A cold snap strained the U.K.
storage network this month and exposed its reliance on liquefied
natural gas from the  Middle East , according to Sabine Schels, a
commodity strategist at Bank of America Corp.  Rising volatility signals a risk to utilities and power
generators, including  Centrica Plc (CNA)  and Electricite de France SA,
as they seek to ensure supplies at stable prices amid dwindling
North Sea reserves and competing demand for the fuel from Asia.
LNG imports to Japan rose 12 percent last year, while shipments
to the U.K. dropped 20 percent in the final quarter of 2011.  “There is a misperception that the U.K. will continue to
receive high LNG imports,” Schels said in a Feb. 21 interview
from  London . “We’ve seen them decline and we expect them to
continue to go down, because demand in  Asia  is so strong.”
Next-winter  gas prices  need to rise in order to attract enough
LNG to meet Britain’s needs, she said.  Europe’s Biggest Market  U.K. day-ahead gas jumped to 101.5 pence a therm on Feb. 7,
the highest level since March 2006, from 64.5 pence on Feb. 2.
Prices dropped just as fast, falling to 57 pence in the next
four days. The contract climbed 0.4 percent to 59.5 pence at
11:08 a.m. London time.  Volatility, on a 30-day historical basis, hasn’t been so
high since September and October 2009, when an oversupply of LNG
combined with a drop in demand fanned by the deepening global
financial crisis sent day-ahead gas prices tumbling to 10.25
pence, the lowest since at least 2007.  Natural-gas  imports  into the U.K.,  Europe ’s biggest market
for the fuel, more than doubled since 2006 as production from
the  North Sea  fell almost 50 percent, according to government
data. At the same time, the country’s ability to deliver gas
from storage has fallen 12 percent as LNG tanks, which can
distribute fuel faster but are costlier, have been shut. That’s
left Britain with a smaller buffer against surges in demand at
times of colder-than-average weather.  “Risk is rising in the U.K. gas market,”  Trevor Sikorski ,
director of European energy-market research at Barclays Plc in
London, said in a telephone interview. “There is limited U.K.
storage compared with other European markets such as  Germany .”  Sliding Temperatures  Temperatures in London dropped to an average minus 4
degrees Celsius (25 Fahrenheit) on Feb. 11, the lowest since
December 2010 and 13 degrees below the five-year average for the
time of year.  Storage sites struggled to keep pumping gas to the network
as temperatures plunged. End-of-day deliveries from the U.K.’s
long-and medium-range facilities dropped to 73 million cubic
meters on Feb. 8, after peaking at 84 million on Feb. 3,
according to  National Grid Plc (NG/)  data.  While the U.K. has about 4.6 billion cubic meters of
storage, 12 percent more than in 2006, the amount that can be
delivered to the network in a single day has decreased about 12
percent to 108 million cubic meters as onshore LNG sites were
decommissioned, grid data show.  “The issue is one of deliverability rather than
capacity,” Michael Hsueh, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in
London, wrote in a research report on Feb. 10. “Withdrawals
were so strong that when prices reached even higher levels Feb.
6 to Feb. 8, slightly lower withdrawal rates were achieved from
medium-range storage sites.”  Storage Capacity  The U.K. should double its storage capacity by 2020 to
avoid higher wholesale gas prices and protect itself against
supply interruptions, lawmakers from the Energy and Climate
Change Committee said in an October report. Britain can store
about 14 days of supply, compared with 69 days in Germany, 59
days in  Italy , 87 days in  France , and 66 days in the U.S.,
according to the report.  While vulnerable to another spell of cold weather, U.K. gas
 stockpiles  are at their highest for this time of year since
2007, partly as electricity companies turn to coal as a more
profitable fuel for generating power.  “Gas demand for power is awful, which is bearish,” said
Sikorski.  Coal Versus Gas  While Britain can generate more than half its power from
burning gas, it used the fuel for just 17 percent of its
electricity on Feb. 20.  Using coal to produce U.K. electricity for the next month
earned companies 14.80 pounds ($23.19) per megawatt-hour more
than gas on Feb. 1, the biggest  difference  since Bloomberg began
compiling the data in October 2009. The gap was 11.59 pounds
today.  LNG accounted for 47 percent of U.K. gas imports in 2011,
government data show. Cargoes arriving in Britain dropped 20
percent in the final quarter, government data published today
showed. At the same time,  Japan  boosted imports 12 percent to a
record 78.53 million metric tons last year to make up for lost
capacity following the disaster at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant in March and the subsequent shutdown of more than
90 percent of its reactors. The country paid a record average
price of $16.96 a million British thermal units in November,
according to LNG Japan Corp.  Future Winters  “It changes the risk premiums for future winters,” said
Schels. “The U.K. is not short of gas, but it is short of cheap
and reliable gas.”  The Isle of Grain LNG terminal east of London, the South
Hook and Dragon sites in South Wales and the Zeebrugge facility
in  Belgium  aren’t in constant use. All four have advertised
import slots this month for times when they don’t intend to
bring in cargoes.  U.K. gas for delivery next winter rose 0.8 percent today to
72.5 pence a therm on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.
That’s 4.5 percent above the average since the contract began
trading in 2008, and down from a two-year high of 77.6 pence in
August.  Britain’s dependency on LNG also leaves it vulnerable to a
slowdown in global production and disruption in the  Strait of
Hormuz , which  Iran  has threatened to block in retaliation for a
European Union embargo of its oil. Qatar supplied 96 percent of
the U.K.’s LNG in the last quarter, government data show.  “Should Iran shut Hormuz, spot LNG prices would climb to
above $18 per million British thermal units, possibly $25 per
million British thermal units,” Leslie Palti-Guzman, a New
York-based analyst at the Eurasia Group, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Farey in London at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  