-- GE, ABB in ‘Arms Race’ Over Clean Energy, Chrysalix CEO Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-02-23T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/ge-abb-in-arms-race-over-clean-energy-chrysalix-ceo-says.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) ,  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  are among the  Fortune 500 (FFX) 
companies competing over clean energy investments, and there
will be more acquisitions as the industry matures, according to
Chrysalix Energy Venture Capital.  They “have really realized that cleantech now is becoming
accretive to their bottom line,” Wal Van Lierop, chief
executive officer of Vancouver-based Chrysalix, said in a
telephone interview. “That has resulted in an arms race for the
best cleantech opportunities.”  Venture and private equity investments globally in clean
energy totaled $8.9 billion in 2011, an increase of 4 percent
from a year earlier, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
Chrysalix tied with Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers for the
most venture deals done, with 16, data from the London-based
research group show.  Companies are showing more interest in early-stage
investments to get “access to the deal flow of the future,
providing them with a window on new opportunities for their core
business,” Van Lierop said. Chrysalix recently received
unsolicited investments from three multinational companies
consistent with that strategy, he said.  The company today said that  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Saudi
Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , and “a large European industrial
group” invested in its third fund, according to a statement.
The fund originally closed in 2009 with $122 million in proceeds
and was reopened to accommodate the new investors, according to
Van Lierop, who wouldn’t say how much the three companies
contributed.  Waste and Water  Existing backers include  Total SA (FP) , Essent NV,  Fortum OYJ (FUM1V) ,
Kuwait Petroleum Corp. and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Van Lierop
said. New investments will target companies developing waste-to-
energy,  energy efficiency  and wastewater treatment technologies,
including processes to clean up traditional hydrocarbon
industries, he said.  Chrysalix already backs Agilyx Corp., which converts waste
plastic into synthetic  crude oil , and GlassPoint Solar Inc., a
producer of solar-generated steam for enhanced oil recovery.
Agilyx may register for an initial share sale later this year,
Van Lierop said.  Chrysalix, whose portfolio company Epyon BV was sold to ABB
last year, also expects more clean energy acquisitions.  “We see the very large companies picking up the most
attractive cleantech companies,” Van Lierop said. “They become
part of their core business, and they become invisible, but it
actually means that cleantech is becoming successful where it
needs to become successful. Cleantech ten years from now will
just stand for the way in which we do business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  