-- Genel Won’t Buy Gulf Keystone, DNO as Exxon Pushes Up Prices
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-02-23T17:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/genel-won-t-buy-gulf-keystone-dno-after-exxon-pushes-up-prices.html
Genel Energy Plc (GENL) , the oil explorer
focused on northern  Iraq , won’t buy fellow Kurdistan producers
Gulf Keystone Petroleum Plc or  DNO International ASA (DNO)  because the
entry of Exxon Mobil Corp. into the region has forced up prices,
Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  said.  Genel, the largest oil producer in Kurdistan, will seek to
expand outside the region, acquiring prospects in the  Middle
East  or Africa, Hayward told journalists in London today.  The Kurdistan regional government said Nov. 13 that Exxon
had signed contracts to drill in the semi-autonomous region.
Since then shares of Gulf Keystone have doubled and DNO is up 23
percent. Genel President Mehmet Sepil said as recently as
November that the company would approach DNO about a merger.  “It’s too expensive for us,” Hayward said. “What changed
is Exxon coming in. We don’t need any more Kurdistan.”  Genel fell 1 percent to 821 pence in  London . DNO fell 0.5
percent, and Gulf Keystone closed up 0.9 percent at 368 pence
after earlier rising as much as 8.4 percent.  Genel can fund its exploration and drilling programs with
 cash flow  from current production in Kurdistan, which it mostly
sells in the domestic market, Hayward said. The company still
has $1.9 billion to use for acquisitions.  Operations will produce as much as $300 million in revenue
this year, Hayward said before giving a presentation to
investors. Current production generates enough cash to fund
exploration, appraisal and development in Kurdistan, he said.  The explorer would considering buying fields or companies
involved in offshore exploration in east or west  Africa , Hayward
said. Acquisitions may include the purchase of companies, assets
and licenses as Genel seeks geographic diversity, more
exploration potential and technical capability, he said.  Genel plans to lift production from the Taq Taq field to
about 200,000 barrels a day in 2014 from 66,000 barrels in 2011.
The company will also build a 255-kilometer (160 mile) pipeline
to the main Kirkuk-Ceyhan export line.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  