-- German Business Sentiment May Reach High
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/german-business-sentiment-may-reach-seven-month-high-in-february.html
German  business confidence  probably
rose to the highest in seven months in February as progress in
taming  Europe ’s debt crisis tempered the risk of a recession.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 108.8 from 108.3 in
January, according to the median forecast of 38 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey . That would be the fourth straight gain
and the highest value since July. The institute will release the
report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  Greece ’s clinching of a second bailout package in Brussels
this week and falling yields on government debt from  Spain  to
 Italy  have buoyed investors’ optimism that the debt crisis has
been shackled for now. The German economy, Europe’s largest,
contracted less than forecast in the fourth quarter of 2011 and
demand from abroad helped factory orders beat estimates in
December, adding to signs the country can skirt a recession.  “ Germany  will be one of the first countries to benefit
from the return in confidence because fundamentally the economy
is strong,” said  Aline Schuiling , an economist at ABN Amro NV
in Amsterdam. “They also don’t face such deep problems with
fiscal austerity as other countries.”  Ifo’s gauge of the  current situation  may have increased to
116.5 from 116.3, while an index measuring executives’
expectations probably advanced to 102 from 100.9, the survey of
economists shows.  Economic Outlook  Germany’s Bundesbank said in its monthly report on Feb. 20
that the outlook for the economy has “improved perceptibly,”
even though “risks relating to the sovereign-debt crisis
remain.”  The Bundesbank in December forecast growth will slow to 0.6
percent this year from 3 percent in 2011 before accelerating to
1.8 percent in 2013.  Germany’s benchmark  DAX (DAX)  share index has gained 16 percent
this year, outperforming all its major European peers.  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-biggest car-parts maker,
said on Feb. 20 it plans to pay its first dividend in four years
after posting a gain in 2011 profit.  Puma SE (PUM) , Europe’s second-
largest sporting-goods maker, on Feb. 15 forecast earnings will
grow this year and next after posting a 2011 profit that beat
analysts’ estimates.  Debt Crisis  Still, the euro area is struggling to recover from a debt
crisis that’s weighing on confidence and output. While euro-area
finance ministers reached agreement on a second bailout package
for Greece on Feb. 21 that is vital to stave off default next
month, economists from Commerzbank AG to Citigroup Inc.
concluded the country may fail to deliver on its austerity
commitments.  Belt-tightening across the euro region is damping growth in
Germany’s biggest export market. The 17-nation economy
contracted 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter, with German gross
domestic product falling 0.2 percent.  European services and manufacturing output unexpectedly
shrank in February, a report showed yesterday.  “Germany’s trade with the euro area is facing a lot of
headwinds,” said Jens Sondergaard, senior European economist at
Nomura International Plc in  London . “But many people are still
being too pessimistic on the German economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  