-- Germany Confidence Defies Euro-Area Recession as Italy Contracts: Economy
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-02-23T12:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/germany-confidence-defies-euro-area-recession-as-italy-contracts-economy.html
German  business confidence  rose more
than economists forecast to a seven-month high in February as
 Europe ’s largest economy bucks a recession that’s gripping the
region’s southern fringe.  The Munich-based Ifo institute said its German  business
climate index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to
109.6 from 108.3 in January. That’s the fourth straight gain and
the highest reading since July. Economists predicted an increase
to 108.8, the median of 38 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey .  The European Commission forecast that Germany’s economy
will expand 0.6 percent this year, helping to mitigate a euro-
area contraction of 0.3 percent. This “mild recession” is
driven by the shrinking economies of countries buffeted by the
sovereign debt crisis, led by  Italy  and  Spain , according to the
commission’s interim economic forecast, published today.  “As soon as economic confidence improves  Germany  can jump
out of recession very quickly, whereas for Spain and Italy it
will take longer,” said  Christian Schulz , an economist at
Berenberg Bank in  London . “We see Germany returning to growth
by the second quarter. For Spain and Italy, if they grow at all
by the end of the year it will be very moderate.”  The commission sees the Italian and Spanish economies
contracting 1.3 percent and 1 percent respectively this year.
Greece, which clinched a second international bailout this week
to stave off a default, will endure a fifth year of recession
and shrink 4.4 percent, the commission said.  ‘Signs of Stabilization’  The euro pared gains after the economic forecast was
released, trading at $1.3307 at 12:03 p.m. in Brussels, up 0.4
percent. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.2 percent to 264.13.  The full-year euro-area-wide contraction would be the first
since 2009, when a 4.3 percent drop in the wake of the U.S.-led
banking crisis exposed the overborrowing and imbalances that
plunged Europe into its sovereign debt troubles.  Financial markets “remain still rather fragile, but there
are also signs of stabilization,” European Union Economic and
Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said today.  Greece ’s 130 billion-euro ($173 billion) rescue, agreed on
by euro-area finance chiefs this week, and falling yields on
government debt from Spain to Italy have buoyed German
investors’ optimism that the debt crisis has been shackled for
now. The German economy contracted less than forecast in the
fourth quarter of 2011 and demand from abroad helped factory
orders beat estimates in December, adding to signs the country
can skirt a recession.  ‘Substantial Drop’  With countries along the Mediterranean rim plagued by too
much debt and too little competitiveness, divergences within
what is supposed to be a unified continental economy have become
more “pronounced,” the commission said.  Declining employment, two years of budget cuts and
financing constraints for businesses will combine for a
“substantial drop” in Italian domestic demand in 2012, according
to the commission.  It painted a similar picture in Spain, stuck with a 22.9
percent unemployment rate and mounting doubts over whether Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government will meet deficit-reduction
targets.  The gloomy forecast for the euro-region economy comes as
analysts see Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  signaling next month
that curbing pollution, inequality and the risk of financial
instability eclipse the benefits of faster economic growth.  ‘Economic Transformation’  Wen will target an expansion of less than 8 percent in his
report to the National People’s Congress in Beijing on March 5,
according to 8 of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
median estimate of 7.5 percent compares with the 8 percent goal
maintained from 2005 to 2011, even amid the 2008-09 world
recession.  “A lower target should be seen more as a signal that
there’s more emphasis on economic transformation and quality of
growth over speed rather than a real goal,” said Ding Shuang ,
a Hong Kong-based economist with Citigroup Inc., who previously
worked for the  International Monetary Fund  and  China ’s central
bank. “Slower growth could provide more room to proceed with
reforms that are required for rebalancing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  