-- German Business Confidence Climbs More Than Forecast to Seven-Month High
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-23T09:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/german-business-confidence-climbs-more-than-forecast-to-seven-month-high.html
German  business confidence  rose more
than economists forecast to a seven-month high in February as
progress in taming  Europe ’s debt crisis tempered the risk of a
recession.  The Munich-based Ifo institute said its  business climate
index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 109.6
from 108.3 in January. That’s the fourth straight gain and the
highest reading since July. Economists predicted an increase to
108.8, according to the median of 38 estimates in a Bloomberg
News  survey . Italian  consumer confidence  also rose more than
forecast, a report showed today.  Greece ’s clinching of a second bailout package in Brussels
this week and falling yields on government debt from  Spain  to
Italy have buoyed investors’ optimism that the debt crisis has
been shackled for now. The German economy, Europe’s largest,
contracted less than forecast in the fourth quarter of 2011 and
demand from abroad helped factory orders beat estimates in
December, adding to signs the country can skirt a recession.  “Did anyone say recession?” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior
economist at ING Group in Brussels. “Today’s Ifo index provides
further evidence that the economic contraction at the end of
last year was only a brief stopover.”  Ifo’s gauge of the  current situation  increased to 117.5
from 116.3, while an index measuring executives’ expectations
advanced to 102.3 from 100.9. The euro gained more than a third
of a cent to $1.3330 immediately after the report.  Economic Outlook  Germany’s Bundesbank said on Feb. 20 that the outlook for
the economy has “improved perceptibly,” even though “risks
relating to the sovereign-debt crisis remain.”  The Bundesbank in December forecast growth will slow to 0.6
percent this year from 3 percent in 2011 before accelerating to
1.8 percent in 2013.  Germany’s benchmark  DAX (DAX)  share index has gained 16 percent
this year, outperforming all its major European peers.  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-biggest car-parts maker,
said on Feb. 20 it plans to pay its first dividend in four years
after posting a gain in 2011 profit.  Puma SE (PUM) , Europe’s second-
largest sporting-goods maker, on Feb. 15 forecast earnings will
grow this year and next after posting a 2011 profit that beat
analysts’ estimates.  Debt Crisis  “The outlook for the German economy has significantly
brightened over the last few weeks,” said Christian Melzer, an
economist at DekaBank in  Frankfurt . “We can now thoroughly
imagine the scenario that we won’t see a technical recession.”  In  Italy , an index of consumer confidence rose to 94.2 in
February from a revised 91.8 in January, which was a 16-year
low, national statistics office Istat said in  Rome . Economists
forecast a reading of 92.1, according to the median of 10
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Still, the euro area is struggling to recover from a debt
crisis that’s weighing on confidence and output. While finance
ministers reached agreement on a second bailout package for
Greece on Feb. 21 that is vital to stave off default next month,
economists from Commerzbank AG to Citigroup Inc. concluded the
country may fail to deliver on its austerity commitments.  Belt-tightening across the region is damping growth in
 Germany ’s biggest export market. The 17-nation economy
contracted 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter, with German gross
domestic product falling 0.2 percent.  European services and manufacturing output unexpectedly
shrank in February, a report showed yesterday.  “Germany’s trade with the euro area is facing a lot of
headwinds,” said Jens Sondergaard, senior European economist at
Nomura International PLC in  London . “But many people are still
being too pessimistic on the German economy.’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  