-- Ghana Stock Exchange to Start a New Market for Smaller Companies
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2012-02-23T15:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/ghana-stock-exchange-to-start-a-new-market-for-smaller-companies.html
Ghana Stock Exchange (GGSECI)  will introduce
a separate market with less demanding listing requirements for
small- and medium-sized companies to make it easier for them to
raise capital.  The market, to be called Ghana Alternative Market, will
start by June, Ekow Afedzi, general manager of the exchange,
said by phone today.  “It is meant for companies that have potential for growth
and start-ups that desire to raise additional capital through
the stock exchange,” he said.  Companies considering listing on the alternative market
must have minimum capital of 250,000 cedis ($146,600), lower
than the 1 million cedis required for the main market, he said.
They also must have a minimum of 20 shareholders compared with
100 for the main bourse.  The exchange will set up a revolving fund to pay for the
listing expenses of the companies, Managing Director Kofi Yamoah
said in an interview yesterday. The exchange has signed a
memorandum of understanding with Accra-based  Fidelity Capital
Partners Ltd.  to provide money for the fund while talks are
ongoing with Ghana  Venture Capital Trust Fund  and the  African
Development Bank , he said.  “Many SMEs in the country want to raise money through the
stock exchange but they cannot meet the requirements and
preparatory costs,” said Yamoah. “The SME market will assuage
their concerns.”  Lower Fees  The SME market will charge lower listing fees and flat
membership fees while an “upfront” fee paid to regulators
prior to listing will be paid after listing, Afedzi said.  While companies on the main market are required to report
earnings quarterly, those listed on the SME market will report
their earnings every six months, he said.  “It will be interesting if we are listed to raise
capital,” Nana Owusu-Afari, president of the 1,200-member
 Association of Ghana Industries , the West African nation’s main
business group, said by phone today. “Any policy decisions that
will help SMEs obtain funds at cheaper cost to do their
manufacturing and exports are in the right direction.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 