-- Giant Rocking Horse Gets Olympic-Year Showcase in London
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-02-23T15:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/giant-rocking-horse-gets-olympic-year-showcase-on-trafalgar-square-plinth.html
The bronze sculpture of a curly-
haired boy on a rocking horse was presented to Londoners today
as the latest artwork chosen for the vacant platform in
 Trafalgar Square , known as the  Fourth Plinth .  Selected for the year of the 2012  London Olympic Games ,
“Powerless Structures, Fig. 101” is by artist duo Elmgreen &
Dragset. The child, a symbol of the ordinary, is intended to
contrast with the heroic statues elsewhere in the square.  “He is fearless,” said artist Michael Elmgreen of the
bronze boy he co-designed. “He is still of an age where you
don’t have all the worries and the fears, and you don’t see so
many real enemies.”  At a time when people are fretting about the state of the
world and the economy, the work is “a little encouragement to
maybe get rid of a bit of the fear,” said Elmgreen, “because
we have to hope for the future, and the next generation has to
do it better than us.”  Every year, Trafalgar Square’s empty plinth is filled by
the winner of an art contest organized by the  Mayor of London. 
In 2013, the square will host Katharina Fritsch’s “Hahn/Cock,”
a 4.35-meter (14-foot) ultramarine cockerel that is, among other
things, an emblem of male-dominated Britain.  Lumley Praise  Joanna Lumley , the actress, pulled the veil off the statue.
She had worked with the artists a few years ago on a
presentation of works at  London ’s Old Vic Theatre.  “It’s not too stern, not too earnest, not too longing to
achieve,” Lumley said of the sculpture, as she sat on a bench
below it. “It’s simply somebody riding a horse for the hell of
it, having fun and looking up to the sky.”  Previously on the plinth was artist Yinka Shonibare’s
replica of Admiral Horatio Nelson’s vessel, set inside a bottle
and fitted with sails made of patterned African-style textiles.
The square is named after Nelson’s defeat of the French Navy in
the 1805 Battle of Trafalgar.  Between July and October 2009, sculptor  Antony Gormley  had
2,400 volunteers put themselves on the platform for 100 days in
a project named “One & Other.”  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 