-- Gillard-Rudd Rift Makes Australia Labor Agenda a Harder Sell as Vote Nears
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-24T04:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/gillard-rudd-rift-toughens-labor-s-task-to-sell-australia-on-another-term.html
Fallout from the second leadership
contest for  Australia ’s ruling party in 20 months will leave the
victor needing to overcome near-record low public support and
resuscitate the government ahead of elections due next year.  Supporters of Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  are seeking to
discredit former leader  Kevin Rudd , who criticized her
leadership after arriving back in Australia today, ahead of a
Feb. 27 referendum in the Labor caucus on her post. Treasurer
 Wayne Swan  said Rudd had “demeaned” colleagues, and Defense
Minister  Stephen Smith  said the government was “frozen” under
him in 2007-2010.  Chris Bowen , immigration minister, said that
Rudd should run again, and that it’s not good for Labor to be
trashing reputations.  “Regardless of who wins, it will be very hard to convince
voters to trust and believe in the Labor brand,” said  Andrew Hughes , who conducts research in political marketing at the
Australian National University in Canberra.  At stake for Labor after the contest is convincing voters
its legislation to tax carbon emissions and mining profits --
opposed by business groups -- will pay off for the nation. The
party was 14 percentage points behind the opposition Liberal-
National coalition in a poll earlier this month, even amid
falling unemployment and rising consumer confidence.  Appeal to Voters  “Julia has lost the trust of the Australian people,” Rudd
told reporters today in Brisbane, declaring that he will contest
the ballot. “I want to finish the job the Australian people
elected me to do.”  Rudd, who resigned this week as foreign minister on a trip
to the U.S., said he would not challenge Gillard a second time
if he loses the vote and instead would serve as a backbench
lawmaker.  Gillard, 50, has sought to make the coming vote the end of
her rivalry with Rudd, whom Labor ditched in June 2010 after he
backtracked on his own carbon-tax proposal and pursued a form of
mining tax that some in his own party opposed.  “This is not an episode of Celebrity  Big Brother ,”
Gillard told reporters in Adelaide today. “This is about who
should be prime minister.”  Opposition leader  Tony Abbott , 54, told reporters today
that he “just can’t believe the poison in the Australian Labor
party.” The Liberal-Nationals have pledged to scrap the mining
and climate-change measures. The mining tax has yet to become
law, awaiting a vote in the Senate.  The Australian dollar was unchanged following Rudd’s
announcement, with the currency buying $1.0739 at 2:46 p.m. in
Sydney, 0.2 percent above yesterday’s close. Australia’s
benchmark 10-year bond yield was 4.10 percent, six basis points
higher than the previous close.  Gillard’s Risk  Rudd’s declaration that he will not challenge the prime
minister a second time may remove the risk for Gillard that
history could repeat itself. Former Labor Prime Minister  Paul Keating  unseated  Bob Hawke  20 years ago on his second attempt in
six months.  Gillard pledged during a news conference in her hometown of
 Adelaide  yesterday to “renounce any ambition” for leadership
if she loses.  The winner of the Feb. 27 vote may take heart from another
Keating precedent. Labor was behind in polls through much of
1992 after the intra-party battles the previous year. It then
regained the lead and won re-election in March 1993, turning
voters’ focus to the Liberal-National coalition’s proposal for a
15 percent goods and services tax.  ‘Lance the Boil’  A “decisive” win by Gillard could “lance the boil and
then Gillard can get back to her message of being a good
reformer and legislator,” said  Malcolm Mackerras , a political
analyst at the Australian Catholic University in Canberra and
author of books including “Australian Political Facts.” “Then
the government might just get back on track and have a chance of
winning the next election.”  As lawmakers began declaring for either Gillard or Rudd,
the Australian newspaper tallied 66 in favor of the prime
minister, with 31 against and six undecided.  “It would be disastrous for Labor if Rudd could get more
than 30 votes because the party would be entering the nightmare
zone as he will see that as a mandate to keep up his campaign of
destabilization,” Mackerras said.  Swan’s Comments  Swan, treasurer since Labor returned to power after 11
years in opposition in 2007, is among Gillard supporters with
stakes to lose should backing swing toward Rudd. He said in a
statement after the foreign minister resigned that when Rudd was
leader he had wasted opportunities with “dysfunctional decision
making and his deeply demeaning attitude towards other people,
including our caucus colleagues.”  Both Swan and Gillard the past two days said Rudd had
undermined Labor’s August 2010 election campaign, which ended
with the closest result since 1940. Gillard assembled a
government through the support of independents and Greens, and
now has a majority of one.  Tensions simmered since Rudd’s ouster in June 2010. Last
September, Gillard said “I’m not going anywhere” after media
reports cited unnamed Labor officials urging her to consider
resignation in the wake of a decline in poll ratings. The
infighting intensified after Gillard declined in an interview
with the Australian Broadcasting Corp. last week to specify
whether she knew her staff was preparing, two weeks before
Rudd’s overthrow, a victory speech she subsequently delivered.  Leadership Questions  Abbott has sought to reinforce his message that the Gillard
administration lacks legitimacy because of the 2010 election
result, telling reporters that Rudd was the last prime minister
with a mandate from the voters.  Besides undoing the carbon and mining taxes, Abbott’s
platform includes reviewing the government’s national broadband
network plan and reversing means-testing on rebates for private
health insurance -- legislation that Gillard won passage of on
Feb. 15 in the lower house.  Abbott also plans to introduce a parental leave program
financed by an increase in the company tax rate. During the 2010
campaign, he made “family” values one of his themes. Gillard
is the first Australian prime minister who isn’t married, and
she doesn’t have children.  Shift in Cabinet  One immediate outcome of Feb. 27 may be a shift in Cabinet
members as the winner considers the comments made and votes cast
in the contest.  “There has to be and will be a major reshuffle,”
predicted Hughes. “Voters will have to get used to new
ministers in different portfolios.”  Rudd today urged voters to “pick up the telephone, speak
to your local members of parliament” as he looks to boost the
number of members of parliament willing to back him.  “Rudd’s started something that he’s got to finish by
challenging,” said  John Warhurst , a professor at  Australian
National University  in Canberra. “His tactics of calling on the
Australian people to get behind his comeback is to emphasis his
supposed popularity with voters and get members to think about
not who they may prefer to lead them, but who may have a better
chance at winning the next election.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  