-- MGM China Rises to 5-Month High on Profit Surge: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-02-23T11:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/mgm-china-rises-to-5-month-high-on-profit-surge-hong-kong-mover.html
MGM China Holdings Ltd. (2282) , the Macau
venture between  Pansy Ho  and the biggest casino operator on the
Las Vegas Strip, rose to the highest in more than five months in
 Hong Kong  trading after 2011 profit more than doubled.  MGM  China  jumped 6.6 percent to close at HK$13.82, the
highest level since Sept. 9. The benchmark Hang Seng Index fell
0.78 percent.  Net income  rose to HK$3.28 billion ($423 million) in the
year from HK$1.57 billion in 2010, MGM China said in a stock
exchange filing yesterday after the market closed. Casino
revenue climbed 65 percent to HK$20 billion as the company
joined  Sands China Ltd. (1928)  and  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (6883)  in
reporting higher earnings fueled by the arrival of tourists in
Macau from China. MGM China also said it will pay a special
dividend of 81.6 Hong Kong cents per share.  “We are pretty happy about the dividend payout,” Gabriel
Chan, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group in Hong Kong, said in a
phone interview. “The company has a high level of net cash. It
is likely to maintain a high payout policy.”  MGM China relies on its single property, the MGM Grand on
the Macau peninsula, even as Sands China and  Galaxy
Entertainment (27)  Group Ltd. benefit from the increasing popularity
of the city’s Cotai strip, where they have integrated resorts.  Cotai is gaining popularity and companies that haven’t yet
got establishments there may lose market share, Adrian Lowe, an
analyst at Mirae Asset Securities in Hong Kong, said before the
earnings release.  Lease Application  MGM China has the resources to expand, including by
developing a casino-hotel complex in Cotai, it said in the
statement. The company has applied to the Macau government to
lease land in Cotai, with no timetable for completion, MGM China
said.  Credit Suisse’s Chan foresees that the land premium
negotiation and land approval process for the group’s Cotai site
application will be delayed to next year.  Sands China’s Sands Cotai Central is scheduled to open in
six weeks, according to a company conference call on Feb. 2.  Pansy Ho, a daughter of Macau gaming mogul  Stanley Ho ,
teamed up with  MGM Resorts International (MGM)  to tap the gaming
business in Macau, the world’s largest gambling hub and the only
place in China where casinos are legal. Casino gambling revenue
in the city surged 42 percent to 268 billion patacas ($33.5
billion) in 2011, government data show.  Shares Gain  MGM China shares have soared 36 percent in Hong Kong this
year, while Sands China has jumped 34 percent and  Galaxy
Entertainment  has gained 33 percent.  Melco Crown, whose co-chairman is Pansy Ho’s brother
Lawrence Ho, has gained 33 percent this year. The venture with
Australian billionaire  James Packer  reported a more than sixfold
jump in fourth-quarter net income to $107.5 million on Feb. 10,
mainly from the City of Dreams casino in Cotai.  MGM China also competes with  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880) , whose
chairman is Stanley Ho, father of both Pansy and Lawrence. SJM
has the biggest market share in Macau’s gambling industry, and
20 of the city’s 33 casinos. Wynn Macau Ltd., a unit of Steve
Wynn’s  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , has a single property, on the Macau
Peninsula.  Visitors to the former Portuguese colony jumped 12 percent
to 28 million last year, with 53 percent from mainland China,
according to government data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  