-- Google Said to Pick Own Executive to Replace Jha as Motorola Mobility CEO
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s ,   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-02-23T21:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/google-said-to-pick-own-executive-to-replace-jha-as-motorola-mobility-ceo.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , which won U.S.
approval for its acquisition of  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI) ,
is close to naming Dennis Woodside to run the business when the
deal closes, three people familiar with the matter said.  Woodside, who led Google’s ad sales in the Americas before
leaving that job to oversee the merger, would succeed Motorola
Mobility Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Jha, said the people,
who declined to be named because the decision isn’t public.  Google is buying Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion,
gaining a trove of more than 17,000 patents that will help it
fend off legal challenges to its Android mobile-phone software.
The company is grappling with competition in smartphones and
tablets from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , whose software only runs on its own
devices, contrasting with Google’s approach of licensing the
Android software to multiple manufacturers.  “The main thing he’ll need to figure out is what sort of
hardware strategy is needed to offset the assault by Apple,”
said  Sameet Sinha , an analyst at B. Riley & Co. in San
Francisco, who has a buy rating on the stock and doesn’t own it.
“It’s an interesting choice.”  Woodside emerged as a favorite from a short list that
included Christy Wyatt, Motorola Mobility senior vice president,
and Chief Strategy Officer John Bucher, one person said.  Google shares fell less than 1 percent to $606.11 at the
close in  New York . Motorola Mobility was little changed at
$39.73.  Leading Transition  As part of his role leading the transition, Woodside
reported to Google CEO  Larry Page  and Chief Financial Officer
Patrick Pichette. Woodside took over as president of the
Americas region in 2009 when  Tim Armstrong  left Google to become
CEO of AOL Inc.  Jill Hazelbaker , a spokeswoman for  Mountain View ,
California-based Google, said the company doesn’t comment on
rumor or speculation. The acquisition hasn’t closed, she said.
 Jennifer Erickson , a spokeswoman for Libertyville, Illinois-
based Motorola Mobility, also declined to comment.  “We’re focused on running the business and getting the
deal closed and wouldn’t comment beyond that on executive
changes,” she said.  International Experience  Since joining Google in 2003, Woodside had served as vice
president in charge of the U.K., Ireland,  Belgium , the
Netherlands and Luxembourg. He also set up direct-sales
operations in Eastern Europe. Before that, he worked at McKinsey
& Co.  Under Woodside,  sales in the U.S.  rose to $17.6 billion in
2011 from $10.6 billion in 2008, an increase of about 65
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Earlier this month, U.S. and European Union officials
signed off on Google’s plan to purchase Motorola Mobility.
Google still needs approval from  China  for the deal to be
completed.  The acquisition -- the largest wireless-equipment deal in
at least a decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg --
makes Google a competitor to other handset makers that build
Android devices. In addition to running on Motorola Mobility
phones, the software works on handsets made by companies such as
Samsung Electronics Co. and HTC Corp.  Google has said that the acquisition won’t mean it favors
Motorola Mobility in its dealings regarding Android. The company
plans to separately report financial information for Motorola
Mobility and Google.  “We’ve been very clear that Motorola is obviously going to
remain a licensee of Android, and Android will remain open,”
Page said during a call with analysts  last month . “We have done
a great job managing our partner ecosystem. That’s a difficult
thing to do, and I think we do it quite well. And I expect we’re
going to continue to do that well with Motorola.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net  