-- Google Agrees to Allow ‘Do-Not-Track’ Button in Browser
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-02-23T09:42:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/google-agrees-to-join-do-no-track-button-industry-agreement.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  will allow a “do-not-
track” button to be embedded in its Web browser, letting users
restrict the amount of data that can be collected about them.  The world’s most popular search engine will join with other
Web companies to support the anti-tracking initiative, which
prevents an individual’s browsing history from being used to
tailor ads, according to an e-mailed statement today.  “We’re pleased to join a broad industry agreement to
respect the ‘do-not-track’ header in a consistent and meaningful
way that offers users choice and clearly explained browser
controls,” Google Senior Vice President of Advertising Susan Wojcicki said in the statement.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , joined the
initiative as the Obama administration unveiled plans to give
consumers more control over their personal information online.
Congress should enact a privacy bill of rights for Web users,
the administration said in a report released today.  Revelations about potential privacy vulnerabilities during
the past year have spurred calls from regulators and lawmakers
in  Washington  for stronger protections of personal data online
and on Internet-connected mobile devices.  Google announced plans on Jan. 24 to unify privacy policies
for products including YouTube videos and Android software for
mobile phones, saying it will simplify conditions that users
agree to.  Consumer Data  Google and Facebook, the world’s largest social network,
are among Web companies facing scrutiny over their handling of
consumer data used to power an online ad market projected to
reach $39.5 billion in the U.S. this year, according to
eMarketer Inc., a New York-based research firm.  The White House report sets broad principles for the use of
personal information that include giving consumers control over
what data is collected on them and how it is used; providing
understandable privacy policies; and handling consumer data
securely. The Commerce Department will meet with companies and
privacy advocates to develop voluntary standards for businesses
based on the principles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  