-- Grading Teachers Sparks Conflict as U.S. States Compete for Federal Grants
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-02-23T14:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/grading-teachers-sparks-conflict-as-u-s-states-compete-for-federal-grants.html
David Wright , a high school
technology teacher in Middletown,  Delaware (STODE1) , has never taught
reading or math. Even so, the state planned to judge his job
performance partly on student test scores in those subjects.  That was until last month, when state officials said they
would throw out a provision in a new system linking teacher
performance to student achievement that assessed educators such
as Wright on schoolwide performance in subjects they don’t
teach.  “Judge me, fine, just let’s make sure it’s on things that
I can control,” Wright, 34, and president of the local chapter
of the state union, said in a phone interview. “In the rush to
get it done as quickly as possible, they lost some of the
logic.”  Delaware  is in the vanguard of states developing new
systems to evaluate teachers, according to Sandi Jacobs, vice
president of the  National Council on Teacher Quality , a
nonprofit research and policy group in  Washington . Delaware’s
struggle may foreshadow complications that New York and other
states face as they follow suit. Along with questions about
fairness, states are encountering delays because of the
complexity of tracking data, conflicts with teachers unions and
concern from researchers that the entire effort could be
misguided.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has made tying
teacher evaluation to student performance a centerpiece of its
education agenda. Changing evaluations was a requirement for
winning grants in the Education Department’s $5 billion  Race to
the Top  program, of which Delaware was an early recipient.  Changing the Metrics  The evaluations also figure prominently in a proposed $5
billion grant program, part of the administration’s fiscal 2013
budget, designed to revamp teacher pay and tenure plans.  States are developing data systems to show how much
individual teachers contribute to student achievement. The aim:
measuring pupils’ improvement during their time in class, taking
into account their skills when they enter. Districts would then
combine these measures with more subjective evaluations, such as
observation by principals. It’s a shift from gauging teacher
quality by the number of years on the job or advanced degrees.  Tying teacher evaluations to student test scores is vital
to determine how educators enhance achievement, said Jeanne Allen, president of the Washington-based  Center for Education
Reform , which supports charter schools and diminished union
power.  ‘Hire and Fire’  “Until we get to the point that school leadership can hire
and fire, and they themselves can be hired and fired based on
the value they add to a child’s life, we’re not making progress
on improving education,” Allen said by telephone. “Evaluation
is the first step, and performance pay is the second.”  Student test scores are one of many components that schools
should use to assess educators, Microsoft Corp. Chairman  Bill Gates  wrote today in a New York Times op-ed calling the
impending public release of ratings based on student test scores
for more than 12,000 New York City teachers “a big mistake.”
His charity, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, has spent
millions on programs aimed at evaluating teacher performance.  “Putting sophisticated personnel systems in place is going
to take a serious commitment,” he wrote. “Those who believe we
can do it on the cheap -- by doing things like making individual
teachers’ performance reports public -- are underestimating the
level of resources needed to spur real improvement.”  Sea Change  Twenty-three states and the  District of Columbia  require
that objective measures of student achievement, such as student
test scores, be included in the evaluation of teachers,
according to an October  report  from the teacher-quality council.  “We’re seeing a real sea change,” Jacobs, the council’s
vice president, said in a phone interview. “Two or three years
ago, almost no place was using any objective evidence of student
performance.”  Pam Nichols, director of communications at the Delaware
State Education Association, the state’s only teachers union,
with 12,000 members, said officials shouldn’t rush to implement
evaluation systems.  “It’s not about getting it done,” Nichols said by
telephone from Dover. “It’s about getting it done right, or
it’s a waste of money and you’re not really seeing if a teacher
is effectively doing what he or she was hired to do.”  Establishing Guidelines  State officials and hundreds of teachers in Delaware, the
sixth least-populous state, are working to establish guidelines
that will measure student performance on subjects that aren’t
tested using the  Delaware Comprehensive Assessment System , the
standard state exam for grades 3 through 10. According to Race
to the Top, they must have the guidelines in place by the start
of the 2012-2013 school year, said Diane Donohue, special
assistant for educator effectiveness at the state education
department.  In contrast with states such as New York and  New Jersey ,
where government and union representatives have sparred,
collaboration between the two has been essential, Donohue said.  “It’s hard enough when you are collaborating, let alone if
there’s no collaboration,” said Donohue, who was previously
president of the union. “You have to have the perspective of
all the stakeholders in order for it to work, and you definitely
need the perspective of the educators.”  Under Fire  The wisdom of using improvement on student-achievement
tests to assess teachers has come under fire from some
academics. Too little is known about their accuracy as a
teacher-evaluation tool, according to a 2009 report by the
National Research Council, a unit of the  National Academy of
Sciences .  The student-achievement tests weren’t designed for
measuring teachers and may not be sensitive enough for the task,
said Diane Rentner, interim director of the Center on Education
Policy, a Washington-based research group. “I have a concern
that the assessments aren’t quite there to do this on a
completely fair basis,” she said in an interview.  No high-performing nation in the world evaluates teachers
by student test scores, according to  Diane Ravitch , an education
historian and former assistant U.S. education secretary under
President  George H.W. Bush .  “This is madness,” Ravitch wrote Feb. 21 on the New York
Review of Books  website . “Will we ever break free of our
national addiction to data? Will we ever stop to wonder if the
data mean anything important? Will education survive school
reform?”  New York Agreement  Last week, New York officials announced an agreement with
the state’s largest teachers union to save $700 million in
federal funding, after U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan
warned it would have to return the money if its Race to the Top
promise to implement evaluations went unfulfilled. Assessments
in local districts will be based 60 percent on classroom
observations by administrators, and peer and parent feedback.
Forty percent will be split between students’ performance on
state tests and locally developed ones.  The National Council on Teacher Quality gives grades to
states based on their policies on recruiting, preparing and
evaluating teachers.  Florida  ranks highest, with a ‘B’, because
of the variety of its efforts to change teacher policies, such
as those regarding tenure.  California got a ‘D-plus’, with the organization saying it
hadn’t made progress in changing teacher policies since 2009,
such as identifying effective instructors. The state is
“encouraging the development of more effective educator
evaluation systems,” according to a statement last month from
the office of state Superintendent of Public Instruction Tom Torlakson. The department declined to comment further, said Pam
Slater, a spokeswoman.  Nineteen states, including  New York , received a ‘C.’
 Montana  -- which had no state policy regarding teacher
effectiveness -- came in last, with an F. The state is working
on an evaluation system now, said Allyson Hagen, a spokeswoman
for the Office of Public Instruction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  