-- Greek Deal Leaves Europe on the Road to Disaster: Clive Crook
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-02-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/greek-deal-leaves-europe-on-the-road-to-disaster-clive-crook.html
If Europe’s new plan for  Greece 
succeeds, nobody will be more surprised than the politicians who
designed it. At best, the arrangement is a holding action, one
that fails yet again to deal with the much larger confidence
crisis facing the euro area.  The deal announced on Tuesday starts with private lenders.
Their representatives agreed to accept even bigger losses on
Greek  government bonds  than previously discussed. The bonds’
face value will be cut by 53.5 percent, and they’ll pay a low
interest rate, starting at 2 percent then rising later.
Altogether, this reduces their net present value by about 75
percent, far more than deemed necessary just weeks ago.  If enough private lenders go along, that triggers the
inter-governmental side of the plan: new official loans to cover
Greece’s ongoing budget deficit and replace debt coming due. The
terms include a lower interest rate on bailout loans as well as
various other kinds of European Union taxpayer subsidy, folded
in with greater or lesser degrees of stealth. The  European
Central Bank  and national central banks, for example, will pitch
in by channeling back to Greece the “profits” they have made on
Greek bonds bought at deep discounts to face value. The
 International Monetary Fund  is going to take part, too. Exactly
how still isn’t clear.  Drawing Board  If too many private lenders opt out, it’s back to the
drawing board. Ditto if voters in Greece force the government to
renege on promises to cut the minimum wage, make advance debt-
service payments into an externally monitored account, change
the constitution to prioritize debt repayment, accept oversight
of  public accounts  by an on-site team of EU officials, and more.  That’s only a partial list of what might still derail the
agreement. Even if it sticks, its designers don’t sound
confident it will work. An official analysis leaked to the
Financial Times discusses a “tailored downside scenario,” which,
to many observers, looks more like a plausible central case.  In this projection, Greece postpones the structural changes
-- such as a lowering of  wages  -- needed to make its economy
competitive. Fiscal adjustment and privatization are delayed.
The government’s dependence on official loans grows, and its
 debt burden  surges higher. The debt trajectory would be
“extremely sensitive to program delays,” the officials conclude,
“suggesting that the program could be accident prone, and
calling into question sustainability.”  Sounds like business as usual. All through this crisis, the
EU has chosen to keep muddling through, never doing quite enough
to resolve the problem, infusing each round of subsequent
crisis-management with high political drama. Advocates of this
method argue, with a particle of justification, that it’s
working. Unilateral default has been avoided and pressure has
been brought to bear on Greece and others to push ahead with
economic reforms that were long overdue.  If there is some intelligent principle behind this
approach, rather than mere flailing incompetence, it would sound
like this: “Let’s build this manageable problem up into a crisis
capable of vast destruction that we might be unable to control.
That will create the fear needed to force some real improvements
in economic policy.”  Panic is what first turned an EU liquidity crisis (where
governments struggle to borrow money) into an insolvency crisis
(where the burden of debt settles on an unavoidably explosive
path). This financial metastasis works through  interest rates .
If rates stay high enough for long enough, they can make solvent
governments insolvent. When panic gripped the markets recently
and bond yields surged, the solvency of  Spain  and  Italy  --
plainly capable of servicing their debts under conditions of no
panic -- was called into question. It beggars belief that the EU
is willing to let the fear of a calamity on such a scale
persist, when there’s no need.  Maximizing Panic  But it has been willing, and still is. The EU’s own
financial officials doubt the new program will work. Greece may
end up defaulting unilaterally -- the panic-maximizing event.
Lately finance ministers have actually entertained the idea of a
Greek exit from the euro as a way of bringing further pressure
to bear on the government. Are plans in place for that
contingency? Take a guess. If it happens, and bond yields spike
again, there’s no firewall to protect the rest of the system.
 Europe ’s banks are still undercapitalized and the European
Financial Stability Facility is at best a third as big as it
might need to be.  Greece is small enough for the rot to be stopped right
there. Add in Europe’s other two acutely distressed economies --
Ireland and Portugal -- and the problem is still manageable.  Greece’s debts, official and privately held, should be
written off. Until its government can get to a primary  budget
surplus  or renew its access to market borrowing -- for which it
needs some economic growth -- Europe should provide official
financing on terms that won’t kill the economy. Euro exit must
be avoided: Wages will have to fall, but dumping the common
currency for a devalued drachma opens too many new channels of
risk. The EU should stand ready, if need be, to do all this for
Ireland and  Portugal , as well.  In any event banks have to be recapitalized and the EFSF
greatly enlarged. If all this were done, the risk of renewed
panic would subside, and Spain, Italy and the EU as a whole
would be moved back from the brink of disaster. The cost to
euro-area taxpayers is not small, but it’s nothing compared with
the crash they will suffer if this game of chicken with
financial markets goes wrong.  What part of this doesn’t Europe understand?  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 