-- Gross Rebuts Cooperman on Treasuries Citing Risk for Stocks
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T r i s h   R e g a n
-- 2012-02-24T00:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/gross-says-mortgages-make-sense-while-fed-suppresses-yields.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said investors should be cautious about substituting
dividend-paying stocks for Treasuries as there’s a “huge gap of
risk” between the two types of assets.  Treasuries, rated a top AAA credit grade by Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch Ratings and AA+ by  Standard &
Poor’s , returned 9.8 percent last year, their best performance
since 2008, as  Europe ’s debt crisis intensified and concern
mounted that global economic growth was slowing. Stocks have an
implied Baa rating, about seven steps lower than the highest
investment grade, Gross said.  “Comparing Treasury yields to corporate stock dividends,
span a huge gap of risk,” Gross, manager of the world’s biggest
bond fund, said during a Bloomberg Television “Street Smart”
interview with  Trish Regan . “Stocks can go down too, just like
bonds, and we certainly saw that in 2008.”  Leon Cooperman , founder of hedge fund Omega Advisors Inc.,
said yesterday that buying Treasuries is the least attractive
investment in a world of “financial repression.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index yields 1.99 percent through
dividends, while 10-year  U.S. debt  yields about 2 percent. The
consumer-price index climbed 2.9 percent over the past 12
months, the smallest year-to-year advance since March 2011, the
Labor Department reported Feb. 17 in Washington.  Worst Place  Bonds will be the worst place for investors to put their
money for the next three years, Cooperman, 68, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack” with  Erik Schatzker .  Cooperman pointed out today in a telephone interview after
Gross made his comments that Treasury investors risk losing
principal if yields rise. A $50 million investment in benchmark
10-year Treasuries yielding 1.99 percent would lose about 3
percent, or $1.5 million, if yields climb to 2.9 percent by June
2013, as forecast in the weighted-average estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Treasuries returned 14 percent in 2008, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data. That compared with a 38
percent loss for the S&P 500 including dividends.  While Gross, 67, agreed with Cooperman that fixed-income
investments are being eroded by  interest rates  below inflation,
he said holding mortgage securities is an attractive way to
bolster returns, with Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
suppressing yields. Fed policy makers said last month they’ll
keep interest rates at almost zero through late 2014.  ‘Not Going Anywhere’  “If you have an environment in which interest rates aren’t
going to change, and that’s the key, is  Ben Bernanke  good to his
promise?” Gross said. “Yields are not going anywhere for the
next two or three years.”  Gross boosted the proportion of U.S. government and
Treasury debt in Pimco’s $250.5 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTAX)  in
January to 38 percent from 30 percent in December, according to
a report posted on the company’s website. He raised mortgages to
50 percent, the highest since June 2009, from 48 percent in
December.  The fund gained 4.2 percent last year, lagging behind 70
percent of its peers, after Gross missed a rally in U.S.
Treasuries and put money into riskier assets, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Gross’s fund is making a comeback, gaining 4.56 percent
over the past three months, beating 98 percent of peers.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.36 trillion of assets as of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Trish Regan in New York at 
 tregan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  