-- Gulf on Foreign Profits Tax Threatens Deal on Corporate Rate Cut
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-02-23T05:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/gulf-on-foreign-profits-tax-threatens-deal-on-corporate-rate-cut.html
President  Barack Obama ’s belief that
the U.S. tax system pushes jobs overseas and Republican
assertions that multinational companies are disadvantaged will
make compromise on a new corporate  tax code  difficult.  Even as business groups and Republican lawmakers praised
the  administration’s call  yesterday for a lower corporate tax
rate, they insisted that ending most taxes on foreign profits is
an essential part of what ought be a larger overhaul of the tax
code.  The gulf between the two sides on international taxation
will be difficult to bridge if and when the Obama administration
and Congress begin serious negotiations on the tax code.  “That’s oceans away, just miles and miles away,” said
 Bruce Thompson , a Washington tax lobbyist at Van Scoyoc
Associates. “Just two different concepts.” His clients include
a coalition of companies that market and sell fuel with 85
percent ethanol.  U.S. companies now owe U.S. taxes on all their profits.
They can claim credits for taxes paid to foreign governments and
defer U.S. taxation until they repatriate the money.  The administration wants to retain that “worldwide” tax
system. The administration proposal would make it harder for
companies to defer income. In addition, the new framework
announced yesterday mentions adding a minimum tax on global
income, without providing details on how the tax would work.  “By imposing a minimum tax, you’re creating winners and
losers from the get-go,” said Dorothy Coleman, vice president
of tax and domestic economic policy at the  National Association
of Manufacturers  in Washington, whose members include
Caterpillar Inc. and Devon Energy Corp.  Multinational ‘Discrimination’  Companies operate outside the U.S. to serve overseas
markets, and “it is discriminating against companies depending
on where they locate,” she said.  In contrast to the administration’s plan, a territorial tax
system like the one proposed by Republican Representative Dave Camp would exempt most foreign profits from U.S. taxation. The
proposal by Camp, who heads the House Ways and Means Committee,
includes options to prevent companies from shifting profits out
of the U.S.  Multinational corporations have been urging Congress to
adopt a territorial system because they say it would let them
compete in growing foreign markets without a residual home-
country tax that other companies don’t face.  “How do you go from a territorial system on the Camp side
to the worldwide and figure out a way to meet in the middle?”
asked Catherine Schultz, vice president for  tax policy  at the
 National Foreign Trade Council , which advocates an open world
economy.  Unyielding Position  In the corporate tax framework released yesterday, the
White House and the Treasury Department emphasized their
opposition to a “pure territorial” system.  “If foreign earnings of U.S. multinational corporations
are not taxed at all, these firms would have even greater
incentives to locate operations abroad or use accounting
mechanisms to shift profits out of the  United States ,” the
administration said in its document. “Furthermore, such a
system could exacerbate the continuing race to the bottom in
international tax rates.”  The divide on international taxation is one of many issues
that would need to be bridged as part of a tax code rewrite. The
administration and Republicans also disagree on the total amount
of revenue that should be raised; on how to treat business
owners who pay taxes through the individual tax code; and on
which tax breaks to retain in a new system.  Tax Breaks  The administration’s framework called for dropping the
business  tax rate  to 28 percent and removing tax breaks to help
offset the revenue loss. Obama would retain tax breaks for
corporate research, domestic manufacturing and renewable energy.  The president’s plan also would raise revenue by
lengthening depreciation schedules, limiting the deductibility
of interest and changing how large partnerships are taxed. None
of those proposals included details on how they might work or
how much money each one would contribute toward offsetting the
rate reduction.  The outline includes provisions that Obama has tried to
advance in his budgets for several years, including ending oil
and gas tax breaks, eliminating the last-in, first-out
accounting method and taxing the carried interest of private
equity fund managers as ordinary income instead of  capital
gains . He would ask Congress to let $250 billion of expiring
business tax breaks lapse or be offset with revenue elsewhere.  Camp favors a corporate tax rate target of 25 percent. The
Michigan Republican hasn’t said what tax breaks he would
eliminate to offset the cost of a rate reduction. The remaining
Republican presidential contenders have proposed top corporate
tax rates of between 12.5 percent and 25 percent.  Common Ground  Despite the differences between the Obama and Camp
proposals, there is common ground, said Edward Kleinbard, former
chief of staff of the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation.  He called the administration’s plan “a little skinny on
detail” and said there are conceptual differences, particularly
on international taxation.  Still, Kleinbard said, “If you line it up next to  Dave
Camp ’s proposal, you could say these are two reasonable men
working toward roughly similar goals, and you could put them in
a room and two or three days later they’d emerge with a deal.”  Election-year pressures and the no-tax-increase stances of
Republicans make an agreement hard to reach, Kleinbard said.  Thompson, the former senior director of global government
relations at Merrill Lynch & Co., said Obama’s embrace of a tax
code overhaul will prompt Republicans to advance more specific
proposals of their own, perhaps leading to a rewrite next year.  “Every step forward, I think, leads you ultimately to a
tax reform bill, not necessarily this year,” he said. “It’s a
mistake to think that this is all going to fizzle and it’s not
going to go any place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  