-- Michael Jordan Sues Chinese Sportswear Maker for Wrongful Use of His Name
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-23T16:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/michael-jordan-sues-chinese-sportswear-maker-for-wrongful-use-of-his-name.html
Michael Jordan , the hall-of-fame
basketball player who heads his own division at the world’s
largest sporting-goods maker  Nike Inc. (NKE) , sued a Chinese maker of
sportswear and shoes for unauthorized use of his name.  Jordan, who won six National Basketball Association
championships with the  Chicago Bulls , filed the lawsuit with a
Chinese court against  Qiaodan Sports Co. (QDTYSZ) , according to a
statement distributed by PR Newswire. The Chinese company, which
is preparing to raise 1.06 billion yuan ($168 million) in a
listing in  Shanghai , is accused of using Jordan’s Chinese name
and jersey number 23 without permission.  “It is deeply disappointing to see a company build a
business off my Chinese name without my permission, use the
number 23 and even attempt to use the names of my children,”
Jordan said in a statement. “I am taking this action to
preserve ownership of my name and my brand.”  NBA games shown on state broadcaster  China Central
Television  and Chinese players including  Yao Ming  have helped
make basketball the nation’s second-most popular sport. Nike,
which counts Jordan and current NBA stars  Kobe Bryant  and Lebron
James among its endorsers, said its sales in China for the
quarter ended Nov. 30 rose 28 percent from a year earlier to
$650 million when excluding currency changes.  Asked if Nike was involved in the lawsuit, Josh Gartner, a
spokesman for Jordan’s legal team, said by e-mail that the
former NBA player “is employing his own legal counsel.”  Same Name  The company’s name and its trademark are the same as the
Chinese version of Jordan’s name.  The Chinese company, with registered capital of 450 million
yuan and based in Southern  China ’s Fujian province,  won
approval from the nation’s securities regulator in November for
an initial public offering of 112.5 million shares.  In its IPO prospectus released on Nov. 21, Qiaodan said
investors should be aware of potential trademark risks, saying
some consumers may link the company and its products to Jordan
due to confusion, though it claimed to have no commercial
relationships with the former NBA star and has never used his
image in promotions.  Jordan hadn’t raised any complaints against Qiaodan
regarding the trademark since the company was established in
2000, according to the prospectus posted on the website of the
China Securities Regulatory Commission.  “‘Qiaodan’ is a brand we registered according to Chinese
law, and its lawful use should be protected,” Qiaodan said in a
statement posted on its website yesterday. “We will make
further clarification through our website if there’s any
development.” The company said it hadn’t received any court
notice as of noon yesterday.  Qiaodan has opened 5,715 retail outlets in all 31 of
China’s provinces and municipalities, according to the
prospectus. In 2011, the company signed Chuck Hayes, currently a
member of the NBA’s Sacramento Kings, to a sponsorship
agreement, according to the prospectus.  Jordan  said in the statement issued yesterday that any
monetary awards from the lawsuit “will be invested in growing
the sport of basketball in China.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  