-- Michigan Airwaves Saturated With ‘Furious’ Ad Blitz
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-02-23T17:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/michigan-s-airwaves-saturated-with-fast-and-furious-political-ad-blitz.html
The campaign advertisement featuring
a drowning man appeared during the first commercial break of the
local evening newscast on Detroit’s Fox affiliate. He drowned
again during the third break, after the sports scores.  That  Mitt Romney  ad aimed at rival Rick Santorum is one of
many running on Michigan’s airwaves before the Feb. 28
Republican presidential primary. There’s so much advertising by
Romney, Santorum and their allies that some spots are running
twice during a single 30-minute television newscast.  The air war is taking place in the run-up to a primary that
wasn’t supposed to be competitive because Romney was born in
Michigan and is the son of a former three-term governor. It’s
generating an unexpected financial boon for TV stations in a
state that was among the hardest hit by the  recession .  “This was a windfall and it all came fast and furious once
they realized the situation in  Michigan  and that Romney was
going to have to fight for the state,” said Betsy Bard,
national sales manager at the ABC and NBC network affiliates in
Traverse City. “I’m up to my eyeballs in it right now.”  Ken Goldstein , president of New York-based Kantar Media’s
CMAG, which tracks advertising, said the commercial density in
Michigan has been greater than in some previous state contests.  “It’s heavier than we saw in  Iowa , less heavy than we saw
in  Florida ,” he said. The tone, he added, has also been more
negative than in Iowa, while less hostile than in Florida.  Santorum New Target  In both  Iowa (STOIA1)  and  Florida (STOFL1) , Romney and a super-PAC supporting
him called Restore Our Future were working to beat back a
challenge from  Newt Gingrich , a former U.S. House speaker. Their
target is now Santorum, who has surged to challenge Romney
following wins on Feb. 7 in Colorado, Minnesota and Missouri.  Between Feb. 15 and Feb. 21, Romney’s campaign and its
allies aired broadcast TV ads 505 times in the Detroit media
market, CMAG data show. In the next-to-last week of the
Republican campaign in Iowa, which held caucuses on Jan. 3, they
ran ads 342 times in the Des Moines market. The two markets are
the largest in their respective states.  The ad with the drowning man, who is carrying a briefcase
and dressed in a suit, argues that Santorum’s record as a member
of Congress from  Pennsylvania  is a reason “America is drowning
in  national debt .” It includes a clip of the former senator
saying he’s “very proud of all the earmarks I put in bills,”
referring to local projects included in spending legislation.  It started airing on Feb. 17 -- the day Romney stopped
running a positive spot about his upbringing in  Michigan (BEESMI) .  Democrats Jump In  Democrats are also advertising in Michigan with an eye
toward the state’s importance in November’s general election.  President Barack Obama’s campaign said today it’s starting
to run an ad in the state. The  spot  is critical of the
opposition among the Republican presidential candidates to the
$82 billion federal bailout of the automotive industry.  “Don’t bet against the American  auto industry ,” Obama
says in the ad by way of a video clip of a speech he gave in
November 2010 in Kokomo,  Indiana .  A super-PAC backing Obama, Priorities USA Action, started
running a spot yesterday that attacks Romney’s business record
and his opposition to the bailout. The ad includes a video of
Romney saying “let  Detroit  go bankrupt” as well as an image of
an opinion piece he wrote in 2008 for the  New York  Times that
carried a headline with those same words.  Priorities USA Action paid $198,422 to a media-buying firm
to air the ads, the super-PAC said in a filing today to the
Federal Election Commission.  Health-Care ‘Blueprint’  Romney’s ad wasn’t the only Republican one broadcast twice
during the evening news in Detroit earlier this week. A
political action committee backing Santorum, the  Red White and
Blue Fund , also ran a spot twice during the 30-minute show.  That ad, which began airing Feb. 21, says Romney increased
spending, taxes and fees as governor of  Massachusetts  and
implemented a “blueprint” of the national health-care plan.  “How can Mitt Romney beat  Barack Obama  when on the vital
decisions, they’re not much different?” a narrator asks.  At least 11 ads were airing on television in Michigan this
week, six by the Romney campaign or Restore Our Future and five
by Santorum’s campaign or the Red White and Blue Fund, according
to CMAG data.  Most of the ads promoting Romney’s candidacy attack
Santorum’s support for raising the federal  debt ceiling  and for
the earmarks. The ads aiding Santorum are mixed in tone.  Sotomayor Vote  Romney’s newest ad, which began airing today, criticizes
some of Santorum’s votes, including one in 1998 to approve the
nomination of  Sonia Sotomayor , now a Supreme Court justice, to a
federal appeals court.  Restore Our Future is airing three spots, including one
criticizing Santorum’s 2002 vote to allow ex-felons to vote in
federal elections. It juxtaposes an image of Santorum with one
of Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who voted the same way as
Santorum when she was a senator from New York.  Santorum’s latest ad, which began airing yesterday, casts
doubt on Romney’s record on issues such as abortion, health care
and taxes. It says Romney requested earmarks as governor.  Santorum’s main television spot features a Romney
lookalike, “Rombo,” trying to fire wads of mud at Santorum. It
says Romney and Restore Our Future are using their “negative
attack machine” to deflect attention from Romney’s support of
the Massachusetts health-care law that’s similar to the  national
overhaul  that Obama signed into law in 2010.  That ad is airing more than 10 times as frequently in
Michigan as another Santorum spot that describes him as a
“full-spectrum conservative” who is “rock-solid on values
issues.” It doesn’t mention any of his opponents.  Unlimited Funds  The Red White and Blue Fund, which can raise and spend
unlimited amounts on Santorum’s behalf, purchased an additional
$600,000 in commercial time in Michigan, spokesman Stuart Roy
said on Feb. 21. That brought its total expenditures in the
state to about $1.3 million by that date, he said.  Romney’s campaign and Restore Our Future had spent $1.5
million on 2,862 TV ads in Michigan through Feb. 21, compared
with $839,120 on 2,308 spots for Santorum’s campaign and the Red
White and Blue Fund, the CMAG data show.  Less than one-third of Restore Our Future’s Michigan
spending went toward an ad attacking Gingrich’s “baggage.” In
a sign that Romney’s allies no longer view Gingrich as a threat
in Michigan, Restore Our Future stopped airing that ad on Feb.
17, after more than three weeks.  Western Battleground  Restore Our Future and Romney’s campaign, as well as the
Red White and Blue Fund and Santorum’s campaign, have run their
advertising most frequently in the  Grand Rapids  media market,
the CMAG data shows.  The western Michigan community is a Republican stronghold,
where party supporters focus on social issues such as abortion.  Romney, 64, won Kent County, where Grand Rapids is located,
in 2008 in his primary victory over Senator  John McCain  of
 Arizona , the eventual nominee.  The area promises to again be a battleground, with the
latest statewide  polls  suggesting a close race between Romney
and Santorum, 53.  Janet Mason, the president and general manager of the ABC
affiliate in Grand Rapids, said her station has already sold
slots for political ads during an episode of the crime drama
“ Castle ” on Feb. 27, the evening before the primary.  Mason said for every dollar Romney and his allies have
spent at her station, Santorum and supporters have spent about
65 cents.  New Dollars  While political ads aren’t a total windfall because they
can cut into spending by local advertisers, Mason said the
political action committees aren’t guaranteed the same lowest
rates that federal law dictates for candidates and they are
bringing stations new revenue.  “The super-PACs are going to change the political
season,” she said. “These are going to be dollars that we
haven’t seen before.”  Gingrich, U.S. Representative Ron Paul of  Texas  and super-
PACs supporting them haven’t aired broadcast television ads in
Michigan, CMAG data show.  In what amounts to an assist for Romney, Paul’s campaign
introduced a cable ad on Feb. 20 that targets Santorum’s votes
to raise the debt ceiling, for the No Child Left Behind
education law and a Medicare prescription-drug program.  Most Republicans in Congress at the time voted the same way
as Santorum on those measures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  