-- Tiger Woods Again Fails to Reach Third Round at Golf’s World Match Play
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-02-24T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/tiger-woods-tied-with-watney-in-round-2-of-world-match-play-golf-event.html
Tiger Woods failed for the third
straight time to get past the second round of golf’s World Match
Play Championship with a final-green defeat by fellow American
 Nick Watney .  Woods missed a six-foot (1.8-meter) birdie chance at the
18th hole on the Dove Mountain course at the Ritz-Carlton Golf
Club in Marana, Arizona, that would have sent the match into
extra holes.  “That was a little bit of a shocker,” Woods told
reporters after the one-hole defeat. “I didn’t miss a single
shot coming in, which is good, and that was fun to hit the ball
that well. Unfortunately, I just didn’t make a putt when I
needed it.”  Woods lost in the first round to  Thomas Bjorn  last year. He
skipped the tournament in 2010 during a self-imposed hiatus from
the sport as he dealt with the repercussions of a sex scandal,
and was beaten by  Tim Clark  in the second round in 2009. The
year before, he won the event for a third time.  Watney today plays England’s former world No. 1 Lee Westwood, who he eliminated the past two years at the
tournament, for a place in the quarterfinals.  Also in that quarter of the draw, Paul Lawrie and  Martin
Laird , both from Scotland, will vie for a place in the final
eight.  McIlroy Faces Jimenez  U.S. Open champion Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland faces
Miguel Angel Jimenez of Spain in the third round and Australian
 John Senden  faces Sang-Moon Bae of  South Korea .  Steve Stricker faces  Hunter Mahan  in a matchup of U.S.
players, while another American,  Matt Kuchar , takes on 2010 PGA
champion  Martin Kaymer  of  Germany .  In the remaining quarter of the draw,  Peter Hanson  of
Sweden plays American Brandt Snedeker. The winner of that match
will face Dustin Johnson or  Mark Wilson , both of the U.S.  Watney won the first hole yesterday and Woods tied it at
the next before moving ahead at the fourth. It was all square
again after seven and it stayed that way until Watney took the
lead for good at No. 10 and doubled his advantage two holes
later.  Woods won the par-3 16th with a par after Watney sent his
tee shot into the desert scrub.  Woods then missed a birdie putt from about 27 feet at No.
17 before Watney narrowly missed with a chip for birdie from the
back edge of the green that would have ended the match.  18th Hole  Both players found the fairway from the tee at the 18th
hole. Watney missed the green with his second shot before Woods
dropped his approach about six feet from the cup. Watney’s chip
slid by the hole and Woods slid his ball past the right edge of
the cup as the crowd fell silent.  “Tiger makes those,” Watney said. “I feel fortunate but,
at the same time, I’m very excited to move on. But yes, I’m
definitely in a little bit of shock.”  Woods avoided a second straight first-round exit in the
tournament when he beat  Spain ’s Gonzalo Fernandez-Castano on the
last green two days ago.  Woods, who also won the world match play title in 2003 and
2004, is still chasing his first win on the U.S. PGA Tour since
September 2009.  In December, he ended a 749-day winless streak at the
Chevron World Challenge, an 18-player invitational tournament
that he hosts, and this year has finished third at the Abu Dhabi
Golf Championship and tied for 15th at the Pebble Beach National
Pro-Am.  Match play involves head-to-head competition over 18 holes,
each one decided by the low score. The match is decided when one
player has an insurmountable lead. In stroke-play events, which
make up most of the world’s pro golf tours, the player with the
lowest score wins the tournament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 