-- Tiger Woods Loses to Nick Watney in Second Round of World Match Play Golf
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-02-23T23:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/tiger-woods-loses-to-nick-watney-in-second-round-of-world-match-play-golf.html
Tiger Woods  exited golf’s World
Match Play Championship in the second round to fellow American
 Nick Watney , who will play  Lee Westwood  for a place in the
quarterfinals.  Watney led by two holes with three to play on the Dove
Mountain course at the Ritz-Carlton Golf Club in Marana,
 Arizona . Woods won the 16th hole and came to the 18th needing to
win it to avoid elimination. He missed a putt of about six feet
(1.8 meters) that would have tied the match.  “Something I fought all day was blocking my putts and I
blocked that one right there,” Woods told the Golf Channel in a
televised interview.  Watney won the first hole and Woods tied it at the next
before moving ahead at the fourth. It was all square again after
seven and it stayed that way until Watney took the lead at No.
10 and doubled his advantage two holes later.  Woods won the par-3 16th with a par after Watney sent his
tee shot into the desert scrub.  Woods then missed a birdie putt from about 27 feet at No.
17 before Watney narrowly missed with a chip for birdie from the
back edge of the green that would have ended the match.  Both players found the fairway from the tee at the 18th
hole. Watney missed the green with his second shot before Woods
dropped his approach about six feet from the cup. Watney missed
with his chip and Woods slid his ball past the right edge of the
hole as the crowd fell silent.  “Tiger makes those,” Watney said. “I feel fortunate but,
at the same time, I’m very excited to move on. But yes, I’m
definitely in a little bit of shock.”  Watney has eliminated former world No. 1 Westwood the past
two years at the tournament.  First-Round Win  Woods avoided a second straight first-round exit in the
tournament when he beat  Spain ’s Gonzalo Fernandez-Castano on the
last green yesterday.  Woods, who won the world match play title in 2003, 2004 and
2008, is still chasing his first win on the U.S.  PGA Tour  since
September 2009. In December, he ended a 749-day winless streak
at the Chevron World Challenge, an 18-player invitational
tournament that he hosts, and this year has finished third at
the Abu Dhabi Golf Championship and tied for 15th at the Pebble
Beach National Pro-Am.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 