-- IMF Said to Limit Exposure to Greece at EU30 Billion After Second Loan
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-02-23T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/imf-said-to-limit-exposure-to-greece-at-eu30-bln-after-new-loan.html
The  International Monetary Fund  will
seek to keep its exposure to Greece under a new bailout package
at 30 billion euros ($39.8 billion), including money still owed
from a previous loan, an IMF official said.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  has indicated that
the fund’s credit to Greece after the second loan will remain at
the maximum available under a 30 billion-euro loan agreed in
2010, said the official, who spoke to reporters in  Washington 
yesterday on condition of anonymity. About 10 billion euros of
the first loan hasn’t been disbursed, the official said.  The IMF has yet to announce its share of the 130 billion-
euro bailout package. With about $108 billion already promised
to euro countries, including Portugal and Ireland, Lagarde must
heed members’ calls to limit its commitments to the currency
bloc, said Thomas Costerg, a European economist with Standard
Chartered Bank in  London .  “One of the main uncertainties of this Greek deal is the
IMF participation,” Costerg said. “There’s some pressure from
 emerging markets  and the U.S. to limit the IMF exposure to
 Europe , and it’s also a way to put pressure on Europeans so that
they beef up their own existing rescue mechanism.”  Group of 20 nations should discuss possible further
resources for the IMF after Europe decides on its financial
firewall, the  U.S. Treasury  Department’s top international
official said.  Lael Brainard, the U.S. Treasury’s undersecretary for
international affairs, said yesterday that a “large share” of
the funding to solve the euro-area crisis will come from the
region itself.  ‘Constructive Role’  “The IMF should continue to play a constructive role in
Europe but IMF resources cannot substitute for a strong and
credible European firewall in response,” Brainard told a news
briefing in Washington. “I’m sure when Europe’s response
becomes clear the G-20 will be able to better assess IMF
resources.”  Europe’s debt crisis will be the focus when G-20 nations’
finance chiefs, including U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , meet this weekend in Mexico City. Brainard reiterated
that the Obama administration will not seek more funds for the
IMF this year.  Even after European finance ministers this week backed the
new bailout package aimed at paring Greece’s debt to levels the
IMF deems “sustainable,” Lagarde stopped short of detailing
how much the Washington-based lender will provide.  Central Bank Profits  Debt-stricken Greece won a second bailout after European
governments wrung concessions from private investors and tapped
into European Central Bank profits to shield the euro area from
a precedent-setting default.  Greece also met a key condition for aid by spelling out 325
million euros in additional spending cuts, the latest round of
the measures that have provoked street protests in  Athens  as
unemployment tops 20 percent.  The 10 billion euros remaining from the first loan will be
rolled over to the second one along with fresh money, according
to the IMF official. Greek repayments of the first loan slated
to start in 2013 will reduce the fund’s exposure, giving it
leeway to commit additional money toward the second package.  “The IMF is attempting a delicate balancing act -- staying
involved in the Greek bailout but without damage to its own
credibility,” said  Eswar Prasad , a senior fellow at the
 Brookings Institution  in Washington and a former IMF official.
“There is a serious risk, however, that it is simply not
credible that  Greece  will take the measures needed to bring its
debt down to a sustainable level.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  