-- Impala Platinum Mine Stoppage Not Fueled by AMCU, Union Says
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-02-23T16:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/impala-platinum-mine-stoppage-not-fueled-by-amcu-union-says-1-.html
The Association of Mineworkers and
Construction Union denied it had any role in starting or
encouraging an almost four-week stoppage at  Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ’s Rustenburg platinum mine, the world’s largest.  The AMCU rejects such allegations as “baseless,”
President Joseph Mathunjwa told reporters today in Witbank, in
 South Africa ’s eastern Mpumalanga province.  The mine was brought to a halt on Jan. 30 when the majority
of its staff failed to report for duty, following an earlier
illegal strike by about 5,000 rockdrill operators over pay. Most
workers stayed away Jan. 30 because the AMCU, “despite no
formal process in place, attempted to gain recognition at the
Rustenburg operation,” Impala said at the time. The company
fired 17,200 employees, most of whom are represented by the
 National Union of Mineworkers , or NUM.  The AMCU isn’t trying to recruit members at the mine at the
moment, Mathunjwa said. While the union held a recruitment drive
at Implats earlier, it doesn’t have confirmed membership at the
site, he said. The body is a recognized union at  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  mines and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  operations in South Africa, and has
about 3,500 members at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , he said.  Active at Impala  AMCU General Secretary Jeff Mphahlele said Feb. 16 the
organization had recruited Impala Rustenburg workers because
“people are sick and tired of NUM.”  The AMCU is recruiting at Impala, Franz Stehring, a
spokesman for the United Association of South Africa, or UASA,
labor union said by mobile phone today.  “You won’t find them physically at the mine, but around
the perimeters of the compound they are recruiting,” Stehring
said. UASA represents about 3,000 Impala workers, mainly
supervisors, at Rustenburg, Stehring said.  At least three people have been killed and more than 54
injured in violent protest around the mine this month.  UASA is concerned that the unrest at the site may prompt
Impala to reorganize the business, Stehring said.  “Our biggest fear is that it might end up in
restructuring,” he said. Platinum prices have declined and
“there are sections at Rustenburg that are not as viable as
others,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  