-- Tin Exports From Indonesia Seen Dropping to 2-Year Low as Rains Hurt Mines
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2012-02-23T09:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/tin-exports-from-indonesia-may-drop-10-this-quarter-as-rains-hamper-mines.html
Refined-tin shipments from
 Indonesia , the world’s largest exporter, may decline in the
first quarter to the lowest level in two years as monsoon rains
disrupt mining, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Exports may drop 11 percent to 20,000 metric tons from
22,568 tons a year earlier, according to the median estimate in
a survey of four company executives, an analyst and a trader
this week. That’s the lowest for any quarter since the first
three months of 2010 when sales were 19,975 tons, data from the
trade ministry showed.  Reduced shipments from Indonesia, which accounts for about
40 percent of global trade, may bolster this year’s 26 percent
rally in London and boost earnings of producers including PT
 Timah (TINS) , the world’s largest exporter. Rainfall in Bangka Belitung
province, the main producing region, is hampering mining,
according to Abrun Abubakar, corporate secretary at Timah.  The “unexpected, strong revival in prices in January and
February will stimulate supply a little in the next month or
two, but obviously the monsoon will still constrain activity,”
Peter Kettle, research manager at  St. Albans , England-based ITRI
Ltd., said by e-mail on Feb. 21. Exports may fall to as low as
18,000 tons this quarter, he said.  Exports plunged 64 percent to 5,380 tons in January from a
month earlier due to the rains and a depletion of stockpiles
after traders boosted shipments in December, the trade ministry
said Feb. 9, citing surveyors’ data. The country shipped 96,020
tons last year.  Voluntary Ban  Tin futures slumped 29 percent last year amid concern that
a return to global recession may curb demand. Producers in
Indonesia including Timah agreed to a voluntary ban on spot
exports from last October to December in a bid to reverse the
slide in prices, targeting a return to $25,000. Tin had plunged
13 percent in August and a further 17 percent in September.  Three-month delivery tin climbed 0.6 percent to $24,200 a
ton on the  London  Metal Exchange at 5 p.m. Singapore time. Timah
fell 1.2 percent to close at 2,000 rupiah in Jakarta, the first
decline in five days.  Stockpiles of the metal used in soldering and packaging
monitored by the LME fell to 9,090 tons on Feb. 8, the lowest
level since March 2009. Inventories were 9,945 tons, the
exchange said yesterday.  Shipments may total 5,000 tons this month, according to the
median estimate from four smelters’ executives in the survey.
The trade ministry may release official data for February in the
second or third week of March.  “The wet weather will usually last until next month or
April,” Timah’s Abubakar said. High tides in the past two
months also forced miners to move dredgers to safer locations
with low reserves, he said.  The dry season in most parts of the country will start in
May while rainfall is seen normal during the period, the
 Meteorology, Climatology and Geophysics Agency  said in a
statement in Jakarta today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  