-- Lin Gets Help From Knicks Teammates in 99-82 Home Win Versus Atlanta Hawks
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-02-23T05:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/lin-s-knicks-close-five-game-homestand-with-victory-against-atlanta-hawks.html
Jeremy Lin said  Carmelo Anthony  and
J.R. Smith can take some pressure off him by increasing the  New
York  Knicks’ scoring options.  Lin scored 17 points in a 99-82 win against the Atlanta
Hawks last night at New York’s Madison Square Garden as the
Knicks ended a five-game homestand with a 3-2 record.  “We have a lot of offensive weapons now,” Lin said,
referring to Anthony and Smith. “I don’t need to shoot as much
with these guys coming back. We’re going to move the ball and
make the defenses pay.”  In their last game before a five-day break for the All-Star
Game, the Knicks tonight face the  Miami Heat  (26-7), who are
tied with the Oklahoma City Thunder for the National Basketball
Association’s best record.  With the help of Anthony, Lin said he’s ready to meet
Miami’s trio of  LeBron James ,  Chris Bosh  and  Dwyane Wade .  “Melo definitely has given me a ton of advice; he has
definitely taken me under his wing,” Lin said. “We’re going to
need Melo to be a playmaker and a scorer” in Miami.  Anthony had 15 points in his second game back after missing
seven with a groin strain. Steve Novak scored 17 and Landry Fields added 16.  Smith, who was playing for Zhejiang in  China  before signing
with New York as a free agent Feb. 17, scored 12 points while
Amar’e Stoudemire had seven points and 10 rebounds.  The Knicks (17-17) are three games behind the Philadelphia
76ers in second place in the Eastern Conference’s  Atlantic
Division .  Meeting James  Lin said he’s received no special coaching from  Mike D’Antoni  for the meeting with James.  “He’ll find out himself; he might as well experience it,”
the coach said. “He’s making the right plays, smart. He’s
savvy. He’s just a good point guard.”  The Knicks led 60-35 at the half and increased their lead
to 30 points early in the third period before the Hawks
outscored them 26-21 in the final quarter.  “Our defense was good, then we got sloppy,” D’Antoni told
reporters. “We still have a lot of guys out of sync. We’re
scratching out wins.”  Jeff Teague had 18 points and Willie Green scored 16 for
the Hawks (19-14) who are third in the Eastern Conference’s
Southeast Division, seven games behind the Heat, after losing
eight of 11 games.  “It’s tough to guard him,” Teague said of Lin. “They
play a thousand pick and rolls. It’s always going to be tough
coming off a pick and roll.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  