-- Indian Oil Charters Tanker to Ship Iran Crude in March
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2012-02-23T09:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/indian-oil-charters-tanker-to-ship-iran-crude-in-march-correct-.html
Indian Oil Co. hired a vessel to
ship crude from  Iran  less than a week after loading another
tanker in the Persian Gulf state, which is seeking to extend
sales to Asian customers while reducing supply to  Europe .  India ’s largest refiner yesterday booked the Mykonos
Warrior to carry 130,000 metric tons from Kharg Island on March
9 for delivery to Mundra on India’s west coast, according to
shipbrokers including Poten & Partners Inc. The Liberia-flagged
vessel is currently under way in the  Indian Ocean , transmissions
captured by AISLive on Bloomberg show.  Ajit Pathak, a New Delhi-based spokesman for Indian Oil,
didn’t answer two calls to his mobile phone today seeking
comment. The fixture is provisional and subject to change or
cancellation. The company on Feb. 18 loaded crude on the
Maharaja Agrasen from the same Iranian port for delivery to
Mumbai, according to a unit of Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest
shipbroker.  Iran, the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, on Feb. 19 said it halted crude
sales to customers in  France  and the U.K. The move preempts a
European Union embargo planned to start July 1 to protest  Iran’s
nuclear program . The country pumped an average 3.55 million
barrels a day of oil in January, based on a Bloomberg survey of
producers and analysts.  Iran exported 59 percent of its crude to  China ,  Japan ,
India and  South Korea  in the first half of 2011, according to
the latest available data from the U.S. Energy Department.
France took 2 percent of Iran’s shipments and the U.K. purchased
less than 1 percent.  The following table shows tankers scheduled to load crude
and oil products from Iran reported so far this month, according
to shipbroker reports and data compiled by Bloomberg. Volumes
are in thousand tons. Some bookings are provisional:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  