-- Intesa’s IMI Hires London Bankers to Expand
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-02-23T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/intesa-s-imi-hires-london-bankers-to-expand-in-mergers-deals.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ’s  investment
banking  unit Banca IMI SpA is creating a 30-strong London-based
team to advise companies on mergers and initial public offerings
as the firm seeks customers beyond its home market.  The securities division of Intesa,  Italy ’s second-biggest
bank, this year hired Wieland Janssens, formerly of Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc, to head coverage of financial sponsors,
while Alfonso Zuloaga joined from Credit Suisse Group AG as
global head of energy.  “The objective is to expand our presence outside Italy and
become a euro-area player,” Andrea Mayr, Banca IMI’s Milan-
based head of investment banking, said in an interview. “We
want to be more of a regional bank, and the firm plans more
hires,” said Mayr, 48, declining to elaborate.  Banca IMI is seeking to expand in  London , including
creating three equity capital markets positions, as rivals such
as Credit Suisse and RBS cut jobs and shed units after
dealmaking in the region dried up last year, creating hiring
opportunities.  Still, competing for clients outside Italy will pit Banca
IMI against Wall Street firms active in the region as well as
European lenders such as  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
which are also seeking to reduce their reliance on their
domestic markets.  “This initiative is in line with the bank’s plan to become
more international,” said Giuseppe Belfiori, head of research
at FT Support Srl, an advisory firm in Milan. “The timing to
form a team like that is ideal because you can hire as rivals
cut jobs at a fraction of the cost of a few years ago.”  ‘Greater Growth’  Banca IMI’s net income rose 4.6 percent in the first nine
months of 2011 to 441 million euros ($583 million). Revenue rose
15 percent in the period to 942.6 million euros, and commissions
climbed 28 percent to 216.8 million euros. In the period, Banca
IMI helped managed bond sales for Spain’s Gas Natural Fenosa SDG
SA and for the  Czech Republic ’s CEZ AS, and it helped underwrite
Piraeus Bank SA’s stock sale in  Greece .  Banca IMI’s merger advisory in London is headed by Vincenzo De Falco. Its Italian clients include Fiat SpA, the carmaker
that controls Chrysler LLC, and luxury-goods maker Prada SpA.  “There will be greater growth outside Italy,” said Mayr.
“The Italian market isn’t sparkling right now.”  The Italian economy entered its fourth recession since
2001, contracting more than economists estimated in the fourth
quarter, as government austerity measures weighed on growth.  Mergers in Italy slumped to about $39 billion last year
from $65 billion in 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show, while
IPOs held steady at about $3.3 billion, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  