-- Intrade Investors Vote Their Wallets Not Biases to Pick Winners
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D w o s k i n
-- 2012-02-23T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/intrade-investors-vote-their-wallets-not-biases-to-pick-winners.html
On Feb. 15, Mitt Romney’s campaign
held a conference call with political reporters to discuss the
candidate’s prospects in the Michigan primary.  Rick Santorum ,
who had just won contests in  Colorado , Minnesota and  Missouri ,
was leading by as much as 15 percentage points in state polls.  So how did Romney’s advisers reassure the media he was
still the Republican candidate to beat? By pointing to  Intrade ,
an online exchange where investors buy shares in a market that
bets on political outcomes. The exchange predicted that Romney
had a 73.8 percent chance of winning the Republican nomination,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Feb. 27 issue.  Started in 2001 for betting on sports and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , Intrade opened its political markets in
2004. The site has become a go-to source for the news media
since the 2008 presidential race, when it predicted  Barack Obama 
would win 364 electoral college votes. Obama ended up with 365.  Unlike traditional polls that come out at regular intervals
before a political event, Intrade odds change constantly as
traders hunt for every last scrap of information in the 24-hour
news cycle that could sway public opinion before an election.
This year the market correctly forecast that  Newt Gingrich  would
win the South Carolina primary and that Romney would win  New
Hampshire ,  Florida (STOFL1) ,  Nevada  and  Maine . It wrongly predicted that
Romney would best Santorum in Iowa and  Colorado (STOCO1) .  ‘Mental Contest’  Intrade’s status as an oracle among political pros is
enhanced because its investors vote with their wallets, not
their personal biases.  “It’s a mental contest,” says Intrader Andrew Golding.
“You’re taking your knowledge against somebody else’s and
destroying them and taking their money.”  The 10,000 or so Intraders --- mostly male and many of them
poker players --- place bets on hundreds of real-world events
framed as yes or no propositions. Their cumulative wagers are
reflected in the share price. When the outcome of a particular
event is known, Intrade closes out the market. If they guess
right, investors get $10 per share. If they don’t, zero.  For example, if someone bought shares for $6 each
predicting Santorum would win the  Minnesota (STOMN1)  Republican caucus,
that investor would have walked away with a $4-per-share profit.
On Feb. 22, Obama’s chances of winning a second term were
trading at $5.95 per share, or 59.5 percent.  Political Junkies  Some Intraders are a unique breed of political junkie.
Golding, a 34-year-old  New Yorker  who works in television
marketing and has played the Intrade market for four years, says
he has never voted, knows next to nothing about the candidates’
records, and professes indifference toward the issues.  Even so, he tracks 500 politics-related Twitter users and
opens  text messages  from Public Policy Polling every time a new
opinion survey comes out, updating his Intrades at all hours ---
even on a recent vacation in  Puerto Rico .  During a Republican debate two days before the Jan. 21
 South Carolina  primary, Gingrich railed at  CNN ’s John King for
asking a question about his ex-wife’s claims that he had asked
for an open marriage --- and got a standing ovation.  Golding says he got a feeling Gingrich shares would “pop”
and immediately bought 39 of them for the South Carolina contest
at $3.85 apiece. The next day, as pundits applauded Gingrich’s
performance, Golding bought 342 more shares for $6.40 each. On
Jan. 21, Gingrich won the primary, and Golding pocketed
$1,471.05.  Iowa Hunch  Adam Ehrlich, a former options trader in Philadelphia,
relied on a hunch the night of the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses, when
Romney and Santorum kept trading places in the lead spot.  At 2:30 a.m., the  Republican Party  of  Iowa  finally declared
Romney the winner by eight votes. Ehrlich figured the odds of a
clerical error were 25 percent to 30 percent.  “Any answer you’re going to get at 2:30 a.m. is more out of
necessity than out of accurate results,” he says.  At 2:45 a.m., Ehrlich picked up 1,500 Santorum shares at
the rock-bottom price of 4¢, thinking he had a good shot at
pocketing $14,940. Although Ehrlich ended up being right, there
was no payday. By the time Iowa declared Santorum the winner two
weeks later, Intrade had already settled the contest based on
its original terms that three major news organizations call the
race.  Carl Wolfenden, the company’s operations manager, says not
all trades are rational.  ‘Eternal Optimism’  “What’s amazing is the sort of eternal optimism of Ron Paul
supporters,” he says.  Some traders say they like to bet against Paul, a U.S.
lawmaker from  Texas . They say he has little chance of becoming
president, yet he has such a loyal following of supporters who
buy his contracts that it’s easy to make money off them.  Event-prediction markets are legal in Ireland, where the
exchange is headquartered. In the U.S., online gambling is
restricted, and American banks don’t process credit-card
transactions for Intrade, so its users mail checks to the
company in Ireland.  “We operate legally” within all European Union business
laws, says Wolfenden.  For all its clout, Intrade is a fairly low-budget
operation. It doesn’t take fees on trades. Instead, traders pay
$4.99 a month for membership. They have to deposit at least $25
with Intrade to use the exchange and keep enough money on hand
for all outstanding shares until contests are settled. Wolfenden
says that in late 2008 some Intraders had more than $1 million
in their trading accounts; this year a handful are already at
$300,000.  Intraders boast about their insights, although not their
earnings. Golding will only say he moved from a studio apartment
to a one-bedroom in a downtown Manhattan building with a doorman
thanks to his Intrade winnings, which he says are good enough
for him to keep at it.  “I have no idea about the pipelines, the moon landings,
immigration, or any of that stuff, and I have no interest,” he
says. “Politics isn’t my thing. Intrade is my thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dwoskin in  Washington  at 
 edwoskin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova in Washington at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net . 