-- Iran’s UN Inspectors Snub Dims Prospects for Nuclear Accord
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-02-23T10:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/iran-s-snub-dims-prospects-for-nuclear-accord.html
Iran’s refusal to let  United Nations 
experts investigate allegations of illicit nuclear activities at
a military base doesn’t inspire confidence for a return to
negotiations with the international community, U.S. officials
and nuclear-proliferation specialists said.  An International Atomic Energy Agency team visiting Tehran
was denied access to the Parchin military base during two days
of meetings that ended Feb. 21. IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano expressed disappointment that the team “engaged in a
constructive spirit, but no agreement was reached.”  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said Iran’s refusal to
allow access to sites where Western intelligence agencies have
reported suspected nuclear weapons work “suggests that they
have not changed their behavior.” It is “another demonstration
of  Iran ’s refusal to abide by its international obligations,”
he said yesterday.  The U.S. is consulting Britain,  France ,  Germany , China and
Russia -- the six nations that have labored for years in on-
again, off-again talks with Iran -- over how to reengage. Last
week, Iran sent a letter expressing readiness for talks at the
“earliest opportunity.”  The “disappointing” outcome from the IAEA visit
underscores the need to move in a “very cautious, but coherent
and deliberative fashion,” said Mark Toner, deputy State
Department spokesman.  Oil Prices  President  Barack Obama  has said there is time for diplomacy
to resolve the nuclear dispute and avoid a military
confrontation. Still, senior officials, including Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton , have said new talks must address concerns
about possible nuclear weapons activities, rather than serve as
a delaying tactic.  The U.S. and  Israel  haven’t ruled out air strikes against
Iran’s nuclear facilities, escalating tensions in a region
that’s home to 54 percent of global oil reserves. Iran is OPEC’s
second-biggest producer.  Oil rose for a fifth day yesterday, with futures for April
delivery climbing 3 cents to $106.28 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since May 4. It was
little changed in electronic trading as of 10:22 a.m. London
time today.  “We’re just watching the Iranian story play out,” said
 Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in  New
York . “What occurs in the market will depend on the
developments there.”  Long-Standing Questions  The IAEA has pursued questions about Iran’s activities at
the Parchin base for much of the past decade. In a Nov. 8, 2011
report, the IAEA cited “information” provided by a member
state and satellite-imagery analysis indicating Iran may have
conducted high-explosives tests of components for a nuclear
weapon at Parchin, 18 miles (30 kilometers) southwest of Tehran.
Because it isn’t a declared nuclear facility, inspectors need
special authorization to visit the base, which the IAEA report
said may house a test-blast chamber built in 2000.  After the IAEA raised questions in 2004 about suspect
activities at Parchin, Iran allowed access to parts of the
sprawling facility twice in 2005. The UN agency reported in 2006
that inspectors didn’t find anything.  ‘Ocean of Mistrust’  “The agency visited the complex in 2005 but did not get to
the specific building where these suspected experiments were
going on,” Peter Crail, a nonproliferation analyst at the Arms
Control Association in  Washington , said in an interview. “If
Iran wants to prove it hasn’t carried out any nuclear weapons
related activities, it would allow the agency the access it
needs. The fact that it is not just helps to confirm suspicions
about their misdeeds.”  The refusal to grant inspections at Parchin undermines hope
for productive international talks, said analysts such as Karim Sadjadpour, an Iran specialist at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace in Washington. “The IAEA’s failure to get
access widens the ocean of mistrust between the West and Iran,”
Sadjadpour said in an interview.  Mehdi Khalaji, an Iranian politics specialist at the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy, called the latest
IAEA visit evidence that Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei 
“sees no reason for engaging in a serious negotiation at this
point because it would be seen as a sign of weakness should he
be forced to do even a minor compromise.”  The ayatollah said in a  statement  yesterday that “Iran has
never been after nuclear weapons and never will be.”  ‘Harmful and Dangerous’  “The Islamic Republic considers possessing nuclear
weapons, from an intellectual and religious point of view, as a
big crime and believes it to be unnecessary, harmful and
dangerous,” Khamenei said.  While Iran says its program is for civilian energy and
medical research, Western intelligence agencies say there are
numerous indications of military dimensions and weapons work.  The U.S. and EU have imposed a series of tightening energy,
financial and trade sanctions over the last three months in an
effort to force the regime to make concessions, such as halting
domestic  uranium enrichment  and allowing unfettered inspections
of military facilities, mines and workshops.  The risk of a military conflict was underscored when
Mohammad Hejazi, deputy head of the general staff of the Iranian
Armed Forces, was quoted on Feb. 21 by the state-run Fars news
agency saying Iran might take preemptive action against enemies
who intend to strike.  Playing for Time  In an interview in Moscow yesterday, Iranian Ambassador to
 Russia  Mahmoud-Reza Sajjadi contradicted Hejazi’s remarks,
saying pre-emptive attacks are against Iran’s policy.  Tensions between Iran and Israel are escalating. Iranians
arrested last week after blasts on a Bangkok street aimed to
attack Israeli diplomats and the devices used were similar to
earlier bombs targeting Israelis in  India  and Georgia, according
to  Thailand ’s police chief, Priewphan Damaphong.  Iran “categorically rejects the allegations concerning any
involvement of its officials or organs whatsoever in alleged
recent terrorist operations against Israeli targets,” the
country’s ambassador to the United Nations,  Mohammad Khazaee ,
said in a Feb. 22 letter to the UN Security Council.  Ephraim Sneh, a retired Israeli general and former deputy
defense minister, said in an interview that a military strike on
Iran’s nuclear facilities should be a “last resort.” Still, he
thinks talks with the current Iranian regime are useless.  “All these attempts of engagement are futile; they allow
the regime to gain time” and get closer to making a bomb, he
said.  ‘Unfinished Business’  Trita Parsi, president of the National Iranian American
Council and author of a book on Obama’s diplomatic efforts on
Iran, said Iran’s refusal to allow access to Parchin may also be
an effort to take a hard-line position prior to new negotiations
with the U.S., Europeans,  China  and Russia.  “It’s exactly the same pattern we’ve seen before,” he
said in an interview. In 2009, before the last negotiations with
the international community, Iran tested missiles and revealed a
secret underground nuclear site at Fordo, near the holy city of
Qom.  “Parchin remains unfinished business,” said  David Albright , a physicist and former weapons inspector who is
founder of the Institute for Science and International Security
in Washington. “Newer information provided to the IAEA suggests
that an indoor explosive test facility at Parchin could have
been used to test important subcomponents of a nuclear weapon.”  If the inspection had occurred, Albright said, the IAEA
could have claimed a concrete result, which might have lowered
tensions going into new talks.  The IAEA has cameras installed and conducts routine as well
as unannounced visits at all of Iran’s declared nuclear sites,
including Fordo and Natanz enrichment centers, the reactors in
Bushehr and Tehran, and a uranium metallurgical laboratory in
Isfahan. Inspectors regularly measure Iran’s declared nuclear
material, and the IAEA has verified Iran hasn’t diverted those
existing uranium stockpiles to weapons use.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  