-- Israel Corp.-Backed Biofuel Startup Primus Green May Hold IPO Next Year
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-02-23T20:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/israel-corp-backed-biofuel-startup-primus-green-may-hold-ipo-next-year.html
Primus Green Energy Inc. , a biofuel
company backed by  Israel Corp. (ILCO) , may hold an initial public
offering of shares to raise cash to build a factory that turns
plants into gasoline.  Hillsborough, New Jersey-based Primus may go public next
year, “depending on the markets and depending on our strategic
investors,” George Boyajian, the company’s vice president of
business development, said in a phone interview. Primus is
seeking to raise as much as $100 million this year from equity
investors to build a facility that would make 4.8 million
gallons of fuel annually.  IC Green Energy Ltd., the renewable energy arm of Tel Aviv-
based holding company Israel Corp., has invested $40 million in
Primus and may inject as much as $30 million more, Boyajian
said.  Israel  Corp. also backs Better Place LLC, a U.S. startup
developing charging stations for electric cars.  Primus uses pellets of woody plant material and natural gas
to produce 93-octane gasoline that can be solid profitably as
long as oil costs more than about $60 a barrel, Boyajian said.  “We have just raised our heads above water and waved and
said we’re here,” said Boyajian, 50, who is a University of
Chicago-educated geologist. Strategic investors, including
“household names” in the energy and chemicals industries have
examined Primus’ business, he said.  Boyajian declined to name companies that may invest in
Primus or to discuss the company’s valuation. Primus has a pilot
plant in a warehouse in Hillsborough and has broken ground on a
20,000 square-foot demonstration facility. It plans to start
building the commercial plant from March next year, Boyajian
said.  Not an Operator  Primus wants to license its technology to large  oil
companies , which would then build plants costing about $500
million that produce about 77 million gallons of fuel a year.  The U.S. consumed about 378 million gallons a day of motor
gasoline in 2010, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration.  “We don’t expect to be owning and operating all of those
plants,” Boyajian said. “We are not in the business of
becoming a fuel company.”  Yom-Tov Samia, a major general who served 29 years in
Israel’s armed forces, is chairman of Primus, and is president
and chief executive officer of IC Green Energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  