-- Italian Bonds Defy Rating Cut to Deliver World’s Best Returns: Euro Credit
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-02-23T08:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/italy-defies-ratings-to-deliver-world-s-best-return-euro-credit.html
Italy ’s bonds have delivered the
best returns in the world since their rating was lowered by two
steps as European policy makers accelerated efforts to stem the
region’s debt crisis and offered  Greece  a second bailout.  Investors have made 7.7 percent, including reinvested
interest, on Italian debt repayable in one year or more since
Jan. 13, when  Standard & Poor’s  cut the euro-region’s third-
biggest economy to BBB+ from A. That’s the biggest gain among 26
markets tracked by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. French bonds have earned 1.1
percent since losing their AAA grade on the same day.  Rating cuts, which last year helped drive Italian and
Spanish yields to euro-era records, are becoming less important
to bondholders after the  European Central Bank  said in December
it would flood the region’s financial system with three-year
cash through so-called longer-term refinancing operations. That
encouraged investors to seek alternatives to record low yields
on German bunds.  “The whole situation has changed a lot with the LTROs
because this has stabilized markets in a tremendous way,” said
Christoph Kind, head of  asset allocation  at Frankfurt Trust,
which manages about $20 billion from Frankfurt. “Investors are
making a distinction between the countries again, whereas last
year we had big contagion.”  Declining Yields  The yield on  Italy’s 10-year bond  has dropped by 1.07
percentage points since Jan. 13 to 5.57 percent at 8:14 a.m.
London time, from an average 6.02 percent in the two months
following the Sept. 19 downgrade from A+. The securities lost
investors 5.5 percent during that period, according to
Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes.  Yields on German 10-year bonds, which have retained their
top ratings, are 1.91 percent, after reaching a record low of
1.64 percent four days after Italy’s downgrade in September. The
extra yield, or spread, that investors demand to own 10-year
French bonds instead of bunds has almost halved since reaching a
euro-era record of 2.04 percentage points in November.  “In the first half of last year, the market wasn’t really
expecting rating moves,” said Justin Knight, a European rate
strategist at  UBS AG (UBSN)  in London. “Now the market is more running
ahead of the rating agencies in terms of pricing and investors
are gradually starting to rely less on the agencies.”  Bund Losses  Bunds, which last year handed investors the biggest returns
since 2008, have lost 0.6 percent since France and  Austria  lost
their top grades from S&P. Italy and  Spain  have recorded the
highest bond returns since Feb. 13, when Moody’s Investors
Service cut their ratings together with those of four other euro
nations.  Europe ’s government debt securities are mimicking their
U.S. counterparts, which surged after the country lost its top
rating from S&P in August with the 10-year Treasury rate
dropping to a record 1.67 percent on Sept. 23.  Downgrades are seen “more as an idiosyncratic risk, not as
general  default risk  and that’s why the market is reacting in a
different way,” said Kind at  Frankfurt  Trust.  Spanish and Italian bonds have rallied since the ECB
offered unlimited three-year cash to the region’s banks in
December. The central bank will offer a second round of loans on
Feb. 29, after handing out 489 billion euros in December.  Demand for the region’s bonds also has been boosted by
evidence of an economic rebound in the U.S. and  Germany , stoking
demand for riskier assets. The Standard and Poor’s 500 Index has
gained 8 percent this year, after being unchanged in 2011. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index is up 8.3 percent in 2012, after sliding
11 percent last year.  Lagging Indicator  For Carlos Galvis, who helps oversee 46 billion euros as
investment manager at Carmignac Gestion in Paris, ratings aren’t
important to investment decisions as they tend to lag behind
price movements.  “Credit ratings agencies are reactive rather than
preemptive, so ratings shouldn’t play a fundamental role in your
investment decisions,” said Galvis. Ratings companies “always
lag the market’s perception of credit risk. This means that they
don’t really affect our investment decisions,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at   magilbert@bloomberg.net . 