-- Italian Consumer Confidence Rose More Than Forecast in February
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-02-23T09:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/italian-consumer-confidence-rose-more-than-forecast-in-february.html
Italian  consumer confidence  rose
more than economists forecast in February as an easing of
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis buoyed household sentiment and
the outlook for employment.  The confidence index rose to 94.2 from a revised 91.8 in
January, which was a 16-year low, national statistics office
Istat said in Rome today. Economists forecast a reading of 92.1,
according to the  median  of 10 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Italian borrowing costs have declined since Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  began overhauling the economy after taking office in
November and the European Central Bank averted a credit crunch
in the region by lending almost half a trillion euros to banks
for three years in December. The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond
was 5.57 percent at 9:44 a.m.  Rome  time, down from a euro-era
record of 7.26 percent on Nov. 25.  Istat said the mood of Italian consumer was picking up even
after the country entered its fourth recession since 2001 and
the  International Monetary Fund  forecast the economy will shrink
2.2 percent this year. Expectations for unemployment declined to
82 from 96 in January, according to today’s report.  The outlook for “the general situation in Italy’s economy
markedly improved,” Istat said.  Monti has pushed through 20 billion euros in spending cuts
and tax increases as well as measures to reduce red tape and
deregulate some services. He’s planning to overhaul rigid  labor
laws  by the end of March to encourage hiring of young people and
women.  The premier says spurring the economy will help  Italy  tame
its 1.9 trillion-euro debt and withstand the fallout from the
crisis that led Greece, Portugal and Ireland to seek bailouts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  