-- Lithuania’s Planned Visaginas Nuclear Plant to Cost $6.5 Billion
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-02-23T12:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/lithuania-s-planned-visaginas-nuclear-plant-to-cost-6-5-billion.html
Lithuania ’s planned nuclear power
plant will cost as much as $6.5 billion, making it the biggest
investment in the Baltic country since independence from the
 Soviet Union  22 years ago.  Lithuania plans to control 34 percent of the plant, while
Estonia, Latvia and Poland would each take a 20 percent stake,
with the remaining 6 percent paid by companies leasing the
atomic technology, Vytautas Nauduzas, a Lithuanian ambassador
for energy and transport policy, said yesterday in an interview
in London.  The Baltic region is seeking to cut its dependence on
energy imports from  Russia  after closing the Soviet-era Ignalina
facility at the end of 2009. Lithuania is planning to build the
new 1,300-megawatt reactor in  Visaginas  by 2020 together with
Latvia and Estonia and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) , a strategic investor in the
facility and  Japan ’s second-largest builder of nuclear reactors.  PGE (PGE)  SA, Poland’s largest utility, dropped plans to invest
in the new reactor to instead focus on other projects, the
Warsaw-based company said Dec. 9.  The Polish government hasn’t pulled out officially and
Japanese banks might make up the shortfall should Poland abandon
the project, Nauduzas said today in a subsequent interview.  “Participation by Poland is a little confusing at the
moment,” he said.  Japanese financial institutions have confirmed their
interest to provide credit for the project, Arvydas Sekmokas,
Lithuania’s Energy Minister, said today in a radio interview
with  Ziniu Radijas , the national broadcaster, without providing
names.  Hitachi expects to sign the final contract to begin
constructing the atomic plant this year, it said in December.
The reactor will be built by Hitachi-GE Nuclear Energy Ltd., a
joint venture with General Electric Co. Hitachi offered its
advanced boiling water reactor technology with a proposed
capacity of 1,300 megawatts.  Power production costs at Visaginas may average 7 centai
($0.03) to 10 centai per kilowatt hour, lower than current costs
in the country, Sekmokas said on Feb. 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brown in  London  at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  