-- JPMorgan Places $72 Billion Bet on Global Homeowners
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-02-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/jpmorgan-wagers-72-billion-on-global-home-loans-in-yield-hunt-mortgages.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  has more than
tripled its holdings of mortgage securities without U.S.
government guarantees to $72 billion as the nation’s biggest
bank bets on borrowers from outside the country it calls home.  The investments swelled $8.4 billion in the fourth quarter,
climbing from $52.8 billion at the end of 2010 and $19 billion
the prior year, according to  regulatory data  released last week.
The bank has primarily been adding debt from outside the U.S.,
including bonds tied to U.K. and Dutch mortgages, Securities and
Exchange Commission filings by New York-based JPMorgan show.  “The bet is they can get a little more yield in areas
where they think that they’re safe,” said Jim Leonard, an
analyst at Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago  who covers the bank’s
debt. While mortgage bonds carry a stigma after fueling the
worst financial crisis since the 1930s, “that can be a little
unfair” because many were repaid in full, he added.  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  added the
securities even as U.K. economic growth slows toward zero, the
Dutch property market slumps for a third year and  Europe ’s
leaders try to stem the region’s sovereign-debt crisis. The bank
may be benefiting as bailed-out lenders such as  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  ING Groep NV (INGA)  are forced to contract, said
Brad Golding, managing director at Christofferson, Robb & Co.  “All of those guys want to shrink their balance sheets,”
said Golding, whose New York-based hedge fund manages about $1.4
billion and invests in financial-company credit. At the same
time, the U.S. Federal Reserve’s “massive” buying of
government-backed mortgage bonds has made those securities
relatively less attractive by pushing down yields, he said.  Justin Perras , a spokesman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment.  Contrasting Strategy  The lender’s buying contrasts with the rest of the biggest
U.S. banks. Competitors are trimming holdings of so-called non-
agency mortgage bonds such as U.S. subprime securities that
sparked the housing meltdown, and expanding portfolios of agency
notes guaranteed by government-supported Fannie Mae and  Freddie
Mac  or U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae.  JPMorgan last year shrunk its investments in U.S. agency
mortgage securities by $28.1 billion to $134.7 billion,
according to data compiled by SNL Financial, a Charlottesville,
Virginia-based financial-information and research provider.  The rest of the top-25 banks, including  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , increased their agency portfolios by
$121.1 billion to $947.8 billion as their non-agency investments
fell $31.6 billion to $98.6 billion, according to data assembled
by SNL from regulatory reports.  Net Interest Margin  While banks are benefiting from record low costs being paid
on deposits, they’re facing a squeeze on  net interest margins .
That’s the difference between what they pay to borrow money and
what they get for loans and on securities. JPMorgan’s margin
narrowed to 2.7 percent last quarter from 2.88 percent a year
earlier.  The Fed, while holding its target for short-term  interest
rates  near zero, has contributed to depressing yields by buying
bonds to support the economy. It bought $1.25 trillion of agency
mortgage securities from January 2009 through March 2010 and in
October  started  to use proceeds from the holdings to buy more.  JPMorgan purchased 1.28 billion euros ($1.7 billion) of
top-rated bonds backed by Dutch home loans from Amsterdam-based
ING in November, according to a person with knowledge of the
deal. It also bought part of a $5.5 billion offering in October
tied to U.K. loans originated by RBS and National Westminster
Home Loans, said a banker familiar with that transaction. They
declined to be identified because terms weren’t public.  Taxpayer Money  ING, the biggest Dutch financial-services firm, sold its
U.S. online bank last week to McLean, Virginia-based Capital One
Financial Corp. as a condition of its government bailout, while
RBS is shrinking after an injection of 45.5 billion pounds
($71.3 billion) of taxpayer money.  In the RBS deal, JPMorgan bought top-rated debt with a
projected average life of 2.8 years, according to one of the
people. The bonds sold at yields that are 1.6 percentage points
more than the three-month London interbank offered rate, a
floating benchmark set yesterday at 0.49 percent.  These types of bond investments can address the “two
problems money managers are facing right now -- the fear of
higher rates and the absolute low level of rates,” said John Kerschner, head of securitized products at Janus Capital Group
Inc., which manages about $160 billion of assets.  Fannie Mae Yields  While  yields  on newly issued  Fannie Mae  mortgage securities
averaged 3.18 percent in October, the debt’s expected life was
more than two years longer than the RBS notes and can extend as
homeowner refinancing drops, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That leaves investors more exposed to the risk of
rising interest rates.  Yields on slices of repackaged agency mortgage debt that
protect investors from higher rates by limiting maturities
averaged 1.22 percent in October, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s 0-3 Year PAC Agency CMO index.  JPMorgan had $2.27 trillion of  assets  as of Dec. 31, up
from $2.12 trillion a year earlier. Securities holdings,
excluding trading assets, climbed $48.5 billion to $364.8
billion, and loans rose $30.8 billion to $723.7 billion as the
economic recovery slowed, limiting demand.  The bank held $57.5 billion of residential-mortgage
securities tied to loans outside the U.S. and $2.3 billion of
bonds backed by so-called prime and  Alt-A (BBMDADLQ)  U.S. loans on Sept. 30
in the available-for-sale accounting designation, according to
an  SEC filing . Under that category, changes in the values aren’t
reflected in earnings. The prime and Alt-A investments were down
from almost $7 billion at the end of 2008, while the non-U.S.
mortgage debt rose from $2.1 billion, an earlier filing showed.  Unrealized Losses  The bank had unrealized losses of $530 million on those
overseas bonds, “substantially all” of which stemmed from
securities with ratings of AAA, AA or A from the U.K. and
 Netherlands , according to its third-quarter filing, the most
recent available.  Its portions of the deals can withstand losses of about 10
percent on the underlying mortgages because other classes will
take writedowns first. JPMorgan said it projects lifetime losses
of 1.5 percent. The so-called credit enhancement on the U.K.
bonds it bought in October was 22.4 percent of losses.  Home prices  in the U.K. fell 1.8 percent in the last 12
months, while unemployment is at 8.4 percent, the highest rate
for 16 years, according to Halifax and government data. A push
to balance the U.K.’s finances probably will reduce growth to
0.5 percent this year from 0.9 percent in 2011, according to the
median forecast of economists compiled by Bloomberg.  Financial Crisis  Dutch  house prices  retreated 3.3 percent in the past year,
while the  unemployment rate   jumped  last month to 6 percent, the
highest since February 2006, according to government figures.  Mortgage bonds outside the U.S. held up better during the
global economic slowdown that deepened after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s 2008 collapse.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded
almost 48 percent of U.S. residential securities in 2008 and
71.7 percent in 2009, compared with 6.1 percent and 15.3 percent
for their European equivalents, the rating company’s data show.  Sales of securities backed by new U.S. home loans without
government backing have failed to rebound, with less than $1.5
billion of deals since mid-2008 after a record $1.2 trillion in
each of 2005 and 2006, according to Bloomberg data and
newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance.  Issuance of European home-loan bonds totaled 196 billion
euros last year, compared with 269 billion euros in 2006,
according to JPMorgan data.  Banks including JPMorgan are also struggling to find non-
agency U.S.  securities  that might offer higher yields while
carrying investment-grade ratings, which Morningstar’s Leonard
said appeal to the lenders because they can set aside less
capital than for lower-rated debt.  “The opportunities are relatively limited,” said Jason Callan, the head of structured products at Columbia Management
Investment Advisers LLC in  Minneapolis , which oversees about
$170 billion in fixed-income. “Oftentimes, investment-grade
bonds work their way into bank or insurance-company portfolios,
which rarely trade out of those positions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  