-- Kenanga Said to Near $298 Million Purchase of ECM Libra Unit
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2012-02-23T04:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/kenanga-said-to-near-298-million-purchase-of-ecm-libra-unit.html
K&N Kenanga Holdings Bhd. (KNK) , the
Malaysian brokerage backed by Deutsche Bank AG, is close to an
agreement to buy the  investment banking  and broking unit of  ECM
Libra Financial Group Bhd. (ECML)  for about 900 million ringgit ($298
million), according to three people familiar with the matter.  Kenanga may pay in cash and stock, two of the people said
today, declining to be identified as the information is private.
The sale won’t include ECM Libra’s asset management operations,
they said.  Malaysian banks and brokerages have been merging amid
increased competition from foreign lenders including Bank of
China Ltd. and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp.  Hong Leong Bank
Bhd. (HLBK)  acquired EON Capital Bhd. for $1.7 billion in May, while
RHB Capital Bhd. is seeking central bank approval to buy OSK
Holdings Bhd.’s investment bank.  Kenanga’s head of group corporate affairs Siti Maslinda Sheikh Othman wasn’t immediately available to comment. ECM Libra
spokeswoman Maureen Jeyasooriar declined to comment on the sale.  Kenanga’s board is expected to meet later today to approve
the deal, one person said.  The sale will help Azman Hashim, ECM Libra’s biggest
shareholder, meet Malaysian licensing rules that bar a single
individual from being a key owner of more than one investment
bank. Azman, who owns 24 percent of ECM Libra, also indirectly
holds almost 17 percent of  AMMB Holdings Bhd. (AMM) , Malaysia’s fifth-
biggest lender by market value, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  1.4 Times Book Value  Kenanga rose 0.7 percent to 68 sen at 12:30 a.m. in  Kuala
Lumpur  trading, while ECM Libra was unchanged at 79 sen. The
country’s benchmark stock index was little changed.  The 900 million-ringgit price equates to about 1.4 times
the ECM Libra unit’s book value, said two of the people. That
compares with a median 1.57 times for 25 acquisitions of banks,
investment companies, and diversified financial companies in
 Southeast Asia  over the past year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Deutsche Bank, through Deutsche Asia Pacific Holdings Pte.,
holds a 16.6 percent stake in Kenanga, according to the
company’s  website . The company’s biggest shareholder is CMS
Capital Sdn., with a 25.1 percent stake.  Kenanga is  Malaysia ’s seventh-biggest equities broker by
trading value, while ECM Libra is No. 10, according to the stock
exchange’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  