-- Kenyan Shilling Heads for Two-Week Gain as Bank Increases Sales
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-02-23T11:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/kenyan-shilling-heads-for-two-week-gain-as-bank-increases-sales.html
Kenya ’s shilling headed toward the
biggest gain in two weeks as the central bank sold more
securities than in a preceding sale and the interbank rate rose.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy climbed as
much as 0.9 percent and was trading 0.5 percent stronger at
82.70 at 2:26 p.m. in Nairobi, the capital, heading for the
biggest gain since Feb. 10, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The central bank sold one-year, 12-year treasury bonds and
six-month treasury bills yesterday, accepting a total of 29
billion shillings ($350 million), compared with last week’s sale
of 6.6 billion shillings of 6-months treasury bills the bank
said in an e-mailed statement. The  interbank rate  has risen to
20.79 percent from 12.45 percent on  Feb 15 , according to the
bank’s website.  “The shilling has strengthened due to reduced  money supply 
in the market as the central bank sold three different
securities yesterday, compared to normal times when it sells
only one,” Jeremiah Kendagor, acting head of trading at
Nairobi-based Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd., said in a phone
interview. “The prevailing high interbank rate also points to a
curb in money supply.”  Tanzania’s shilling appreciated against the dollar as the
central bank sold the U.S. currency in the market to meet demand
from oil importers and manufacturing industry. The currency of
the second-biggest economy in East Africa traded 0.1 percent
higher at 1,593 per dollar.  “The central bank is supplying dollars to the market today
to meet demand from  oil companies  and the manufacturing sector
supporting the shillings,” Fred Siwale, a dealer with CRDB Bank
Plc, said by phone from  Dar es Salaam , the commercial Capital.  The Ugandan shilling was unchanged against the dollar.  -- With assistance from David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam
Editors: Peter Branton, Linda Shen  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  