-- Nationals Strasburg Will Have Limited Pitching Time After Elbow Surgery
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-02-23T05:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/nationals-strasburg-will-have-limited-pitching-time-after-elbow-surgery.html
Stephen Strasburg  will have limited
time on the mound as he starts his first full Major League
Baseball season after elbow surgery, Washington Nationals
manager  Davey Johnson  said.  The 23-year-old right-hander, the top pick in the 2009
draft who signed a record $15 million four-year contract, will
be allowed to pitch 150 to 160 innings this season, Johnson told
reporters yesterday at Nationals spring training camp at Space
Coast Stadium in Viera,  Florida .  “When they tell me to go out there and pitch, I’m going to
pitch and give it everything I have,” Strasburg told reporters.
“When they tell me I’m done, I’m going to be done. That’s the
bottom line.”  Strasburg will follow the same regimen as teammate Jordan Zimmerman, who went 161 1/3 innings last year after having the
same procedure. General Manager Mike Rizzo said the team would
abide by the plan to limit Strasburg’s regular-season
appearances.  “There’s not going to be a whole lot of tinkering going
on,” Rizzo said. “We’re going to run him out there until his
innings are done. I think it’s unfair to get him ramped up in
spring training and start the season on a regular rotation and
then shut him down or skip him.”  Natural Pitches  Strasburg set a major league record with 41 strikeouts in
his first four starts in the 2010 season and went 5-3 with a
2.91 earned run average and 92 strikeouts in 68 innings. He
threw a mixture of fastballs that reached 100 mph (161 kph),
changeups and breaking balls.  His career was interrupted by so-called Tommy John surgery
on Sept. 4, 2010, to replace a ligament in his throwing arm, two
weeks after he injured it.  He spent last season rehabbing with the Nationals’ minor-
league teams before joining his teammates in September for five
starts. He went 1-1 with a 1.50 earned run average, with 24
strikeouts in 24 innings.  After his first bullpen workout of spring training,
Strasburg said his pitching felt more natural than it did during
his rehab games last season.  “It just feels like it almost never happened,” he said.
“That’s a good thing, but at the same time, I need to remember
what I learned from that because it was a tough experience in my
career.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  