-- New York Said to Require Payments After Fallen Soldier Story
-- B y   D a v i d   E v a n s
-- 2012-02-23T23:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/new-york-said-to-require-life-insurer-payments-after-fallen-soldier-report.html
Life insurers will face tighter
restrictions against holding beneficiaries’ funds under a
directive to be made by the  New York  Department of Financial
Services, according to a person with knowledge of the plan.  Insurers will be required to issue a check to the survivor
as the default option, under a mandate that will probably be
made by the end of the month, said the person, who declined to
be identified because there was no statement from the regulator.
The carriers will only be able to hold the funds if a
beneficiary authorizes the use of a retained asset account, the
person said.  Under those accounts, insurers issue checkbook-like IOUs
to survivors and profit by investing the money, paying only when
beneficiaries write drafts on the account.  Andrew Cuomo , then
New York’s Attorney General, began investigating the practice in
2010 after Bloomberg Markets reported that 100 carriers earn
investment income on $28 billion in retained-asset accounts.  “The substantial interest earned on these accounts mostly
benefit and enrich the insurers at the expense of the families
to whom the money really belongs,” Cuomo said after Bloomberg
published “Duping the Families of Fallen Soldiers.” Cuomo is
now governor of the state.  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the second-largest U.S. life
insurer, has an exclusive contract to provide life insurance to
about 6 million U.S. military personnel, their immediate
families and veterans. In September 2010, the Department of
 Veterans Affairs  reversed a policy that since 1999 allowed
Prudential to automatically withhold lump-sum payments to
survivors by issuing accounts.  Lump-Sum Payments  MetLife Inc. (MET)  earned  $267 million  in net investment income
on $12 billion of beneficiary money it held in retained asset
accounts in 2010, according to the U.S. Government
Accountability Office. MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer,
operates the Federal Employees’ Group Life Insurance program for
about 4 million federal employees.  Bob DeFillippo , a spokesman for Newark, New Jersey-based
Prudential, and MetLife’s  Christopher Breslin  declined to
comment on the mandate or its potential costs. Whit Cornman, a
spokesman for the American Council of Life Insurers, said the
trade group wouldn’t have a comment until it reviewed an
official document.  Susan Nolan, executive director of the National Conference
of Insurance Legislators, said that New York may be the first
state to require a check to be the default option for life-
insurance payouts.  Less Pressure  Prudential and New York-based MetLife had said the retained
asset accounts benefited clients and reduced pressure on
survivors to make investment decisions while grieving.  “When consumers have the option to choose between RAAs
and lump-sum check payments, the overwhelming majority choose
lump-sum check payments,” the GAO said in a report last year.  A California law this year began requiring life insurers to
get written declarations from beneficiaries about how they want
to be paid. U.S. insurers are regulated by state watchdogs
including  Benjamin Lawsky , superintendent of New York’s
Department of Financial Services.  In 2010, the conference of legislators adopted a
“Beneficiaries’ Bill of Rights” to increase oversight of
retained asset account disclosures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Evans  in  Los Angeles  at 
 davidevans@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 