-- New Mona Lisa Stirs Buzz Over Romantic Triangle: Martin Gayford
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-02-23T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/new-mona-lisa-stirs-buzz-over-romantic-triangle-martin-gayford.html
Though he has been dead for almost
500 years,  Leonardo da Vinci  (1452-1519) continues to surprise.  Following his sensational recent exhibition at the  National
Gallery  in London and the revelation of a newly authenticated
painting, the “Salvator Mundi,” there comes a development that
is yet more startling: a second Mona Lisa.  Nobody is claiming that this picture, which belongs to the
 Prado  in Madrid, was actually painted by the great man himself.
After cleaning and technical examination, sponsored by the
 Fundacion Iberdrola , it turned out to be something almost as
important and intriguing -- a version painted at the same time
as the original, in Leonardo’s studio.  Previously, the Madrid picture, which has been in  Spain 
since the 17th century, was thought to be just a later copy.
Conservators have discovered that it was painted on walnut in
the distinctive manner of Leonardo’s studio. When old over-paint
was removed, a landscape closely resembling the one in the
Louvre painting was revealed.  Most tellingly, infrared examination discovered similar
changes beneath the surfaces of the two pictures. In other
words, it seems the  Madrid  picture was created in parallel with
the Paris one, in Leonardo’s studio, probably by one of his
assistants such as Salai or Francesco Melzi.  Murky Pool  Consequently, this new “Mona Lisa” -- currently on view
at the Prado (through March 23) and soon to go on show at the
 Louvre  (March 29-June 25) -- probably gives a better idea of
what the picture looked like when just finished, particularly in
terms of color, than the actual masterpiece now does.  There have been complaints since the 17th century that the
“Mona Lisa” was so obscured by discolored varnish that it was
hard to make it out. Nowadays, the sitter seems to be seen
through a green-brown filter as if she were at the bottom of a
dirty swimming pool.  The Louvre’s “The Virgin and Child With St. Anne” by
Leonardo now has been cleaned, despite controversy, and the
refreshed or -- critics may claim -- over-bright picture will be
the centerpiece of the Louvre show. It would be a bold museum
director, though, who ordered the cleaning of the  Mona Lisa .  In contrast, the Madrid version of the painting has the
“rosy and pearly tints” described by the 16th-century art
historian Giorgio Vasari. She even has delicately plucked
eyebrows, singled out for special praise by Vasari, although no
trace of eyebrow can be found on the picture in the Louvre.  Twin Monas  Why produce two Mona Lisas, one a deluxe version entirely
from the master’s brush, and one not? Since a scholar at the
University of Heidelberg found a manuscript note from 1503,
mentioning a Leonardo painting of “the countenance of Lisa del
Giocondo,” the sitter has been known for certain.  Previously, the question of her identity was confused by a
description of Leonardo showing the picture to a visitor in
1517, and -- apparently -- describing it as “a certain
Florentine lady done at the instigation of the late Magnifico
Giuliano de’ Medici.”  This was puzzling because Lisa del Giocondo, nee
Gherardini, was married to a Florentine merchant named Francesco
del Giocondo. So why would Giuliano de Medici (1479-1516), third
son of Lorenzo the Magnificent, want a picture of her?  What if, as Charles Nicholl suggested in his biography of
Leonardo, the lady had two admirers: her husband and a wealthy,
exiled aristocrat? Giuliano and Lisa were both born in 1479, and
belonged to the same elite Florentine circles. And what if the
picture now in Madrid was in Florence during the 16th century,
and seen by Vasari? That’s all speculation, of course, yet with
Leonardo it’s always hard to resist.  Information:  http://www.museodelprado.es 
 http://www.louvre.fr .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in  London  at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 