-- New Asia Hedge Funds Raise Most Since ’07
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-02-23T03:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/new-asia-hedge-funds-raise-most-since-07.html
Asian hedge funds started by both
new and existing managers raised $4.43 billion last year, the
highest amount since the industry peaked in 2007, according to a
survey by trade journal AsiaHedge.  The average size of the 58 new Asian hedge funds set up
last year jumped to $76.4 million, almost twice the $40 million
in 2010, AsiaHedge said in an e-mailed statement today. New  Asia 
hedge funds raised a record $7.8 billion in 2007, it added.  New funds in the region benefited from investors
reallocating capital from existing pools in a year of closures,
“flat” performances and higher entry barriers, said Aradhna
Dayal, head of Asia for  HedgeFund Intelligence , the London-based
data provider that publishes AsiaHedge.  Hedge fund liquidations in the third quarter last year
reached the highest level since the final three months of 2008,
according to a report released this week by Singapore-based data
provider Eurekahedge Pte.  Eurekahedge Asian Hedge Fund Index (EHFI38) 
lost 8.5 percent last year, more than twice its global gauge.  “The reality is not all of it is new capital flowing into
Asia,” Dayal said in the statement. “After a hiatus of almost
two years, few highly regarded traders, hedge fund managers
finally succeeded in launching their own ventures last year,
which gave many an international investors an opportunity to
recycle or trade up their Asia allocations.”  Multistrategy Funds  New Asian hedge funds also benefited as U.S. institutions
began allocating capital to the region, AsiaHedge said.  “While historically most large launches have resulted from
a bank prop trading or manager spinouts, launches in the coming
year will come from global hedge fund firms launching Asia
dedicated strategies as well as mainland China managers setting
up in  Hong Kong ,” Dayal said.  Asian multistrategy hedge funds started last year raised
$2.7 billion, becoming the largest new fund category for the
first time, AsiaHedge said. Some of the region’s biggest new
starts during the year fell into the category, including Azentus
Capital Management Ltd., led by former Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
proprietary trader Morgan Sze, and Myriad Asset Management Ltd.,
helmed by Carl Huttenlocher, former Asia head of Highbridge
Capital Management LLC.  Hong Kong is the largest center for new Asian funds, with
20, or 34 percent, of the new ones based in the city. Singapore
trailed with 17 new funds, AsiaHedge said.  Hedge Fund Closures  Hedge fund startups exceeded closures in the first half of
last year, according to Eurekahedge. In the second half,
liquidations spiked up amid investor withdrawals and negative
performances, it added.  Closures also rose because 65 percent of Asian hedge funds
are below their high watermarks, the historical peak fund value
above which they can charge performance fees, Eurekahedge said.  About 42 percent of Asian hedge funds managed $20 million
or less by December, a 13 percentage-point increase over the end
of 2007, according to Eurekahedge.  “Heavy redemptions during the financial crisis, along with
performance-based losses, resulted in a high number of larger
funds shrinking in size to fall into this category,” according
to the Eurekahedge report. “Although startup activity in Asia
ramped up in 2009 and 2010, many new launches could not attract
capital and remained in the smallest category.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  