-- Citibank Judgment Against Developer Solow Upheld by New York Appeals Court
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-02-23T17:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/new-york-appeals-court-affirms-ruling-against-sheldon-solow.html
Sheldon H. Solow, the billionaire
real-estate developer, lost a bid to have an appeals court
overturn a $98.9 million judgment against him in a suit brought
by  Citigroup Inc.’s (C)  Citibank NA unit.  Citibank sued Solow in 2008, saying he failed to make
payments on a $503 million line of credit it provided to develop
a site along  New York ’s  East River . Solow said the bank rebuffed
his offer of more collateral and instead sold his initial
collateral for millions of dollars less than fair market value.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Bernard Fried in March
2010 granted the bank’s request for a verdict before trial and
awarded the company $85.7 million plus fees and damages.  A New York appeals court upheld that ruling today, saying
that Solow didn’t support his claim that the value of the
collateral was “determined in bad faith.” The sale of the
collateral was “commercially reasonable” because New York-
based Citibank wasn’t bound to wait and risk a declining market
and the sale price wasn’t significantly lower than the market
value, the appeals court said.  “It did not evince bad faith for plaintiff to refuse to
accept additional collateral to cure defendant’s default based
on a shortfall, despite having accepted additional collateral in
the past,” Justice David B. Saxe wrote.  Donald A. Corbett, an attorney at Lowenstein Sandler PC in
New York who represented Solow in his appeal, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message left at his office seeking comment
on the ruling.  The case is  Citibank NA  v. Solow, 603697/2008, New York
State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  