-- Newell to Focus on Key Brands in Emerging Markets
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-02-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/newell-ceo-to-focus-company-on-key-brands-in-emerging-markets.html
Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (NWL)  Chief
Executive Officer Michael Polk said the company will shift more
of its resources to the developing world, focusing on key brands
and taking advantage of trends such as rapid urbanization.  “Our financial resources will shift, south and then
east,” Polk said yesterday in an interview in  Boca Raton ,
Florida. That includes an emphasis on  Brazil ,  Mexico  and  China ,
where Newell can sell its Lenox saws to a market that consumes
43 percent of the world’s steel supply.  Polk took over the maker of Sharpie pens and Calphalon
cookware in July, after serving as the head of Unilever NV’s
foods, home and personal-care business. He’s reduced operating
units to two from three, cutting 500 jobs, and says he’ll shift
savings into brands with high growth potential like Paper Mate
pens.  Last year, 87 percent of Newell’s sales were generated in
the U.S.,  Canada  and  Europe , while about 80 percent of its
growth comes from the developing world. Like other household-
products makers, Newell has had to contend with higher raw-
materials costs and slow-spending consumers in mature markets,
along with a low birth rate.  Newell also would consider acquisitions to fuel expansion
in high-growth areas such as commercial products and tools, Polk
said.  “There’s some really interesting opportunities around the
world,” Polk said, although a purchase this year is unlikely
because the company first wants to build out distribution and
other infrastructure in key markets, he said.  Predecessor’s Restructuring  Newell can enter fast-growing markets after a multiyear
restructuring led by his predecessor, Mark Ketchum, Polk said.
“That job had to be done first,” he said.  Ketchum, who served as CEO from 2005 until he retired last
year, closed plants and sold less-profitable product lines to
invest in higher-margin brands.  Newell, with $5.86 billion in sales last year, has forecast
2012 profit before some costs of $1.63 to $1.69 a share,
compared with $1.68, the average estimate compiled by Bloomberg.
Currency effects will trim earnings by 4 cents to 5 cents a
share, Polk said on a Jan. 27 conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  