-- Newmont Posts Loss on $1.61 Billion Canada Mine Writedown
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-02-24T21:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/newmont-reports-fourth-quarter-loss-on-asset-impairment-charge.html
Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , the largest
U.S. gold producer, reported a fourth-quarter loss because of a
$1.61 billion writedown of its Hope Bay project in Canada.  The net loss was $1.03 billion, which compared with net
income of $812 million a year earlier,  Greenwood Village ,
Colorado-based Newmont said yesterday in a statement. Earnings
excluding the non-cash asset-impairment charge and other one-
time items were $1.17 a share, trailing the $1.28 average of 12
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’ve seen writedowns across the space here,” Adam Graf,
a New York-based analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co., said in a
telephone interview today. Accounting rules require companies to
use current cost estimates with three-year trailing average gold
prices when evaluating assets, he said.  Kinross Gold Corp.,  Canada ’s third-largest gold producer by
sales, last week recorded a $2.49 billion goodwill writedown on
its Tasiast mine in  Mauritania . Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd., another
Canadian miner, posted a fourth-quarter loss on Feb. 15 after
taking a writedown on its Meadowbank project in northern Canada.  Newmont, which has mines in the Americas, the Asia-Pacific
region and  Africa , said in January it would put the Hope Bay
project on hold and that the net book value of the asset would
be subject to impairment testing. The project, in the Canadian
Arctic, is expensive to operate because of its location, said
Randy Engel, Newmont’s executive vice-president for strategic
development.  ‘Three Big Projects’  “We’ve got to look at capital rationing for 2012 because
we’ve got three big projects going simultaneously,” Engel said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “We had to step back and
put a few things on hold.”  The company had a fourth-quarter loss of $2.02 a diluted
share, compared with net income of $1.61 reported a year
earlier, the company said. Revenue rose 8.5 percent to $2.77
billion.  Newmont fell 2 percent to $62.51 in  New York . The shares
have gained 4.2 percent this year.  Newmont said last month it produced 5.2 million ounces of
gold and 206 million pounds of copper in 2011. Output this year
is forecast at 5 million to 5.2 million ounces of gold and
copper production will decline to 150 million to 170 million
pounds.  The company’s cost to produce and sell an ounce of gold may
rise as much as 14 percent this year, to as much as $675. Copper
costs are forecast at as much as $2.20 a pound, compared with
$1.26 in 2011.  Lower Production  Production will be lower this year and costs will rise
because the company expects to process lower-grade ore at its
Batu Hijau mine in  Indonesia , Graf said.  “That has been telegraphed for a long time, that this was
going to be a weak year for Batu,” Graf said. “Anybody who has
been paying attention to the story should not be surprised by
the guidance.”  Newmont said in November it suspended development of its
$4.8 billion Minas Conga project in  Peru  after weeks of clashes
between police and opponents of the mine.  The company is also developing the Akyem mine in  Ghana  and
expanding its Tanami operations in  Australia .  Capital spending 
in 2012 is forecast at $3 billion to $3.3 billion, Newmont said
in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  