-- News Corp. Sued by Former U.K. Union Leader Over Phone-Hacking Claims
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-02-23T20:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/news-corp-sued-for-hacking-phone-of-firefighters-union-boss.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  was sued by a former
union leader over claims tabloids hacked into his phone
messages, adding to the company’s legal troubles as it seeks to
avoid the first civil trial over the scandal.  Andy Gilchrist, the U.K. general secretary for the Fire
Brigades Union from 2000 to 2005, sued Feb. 10 in London over
“incidents” during that period, his lawyer  Tom Jones , of
Thompsons Solicitors, said today in a phone interview.  The phone-hacking litigation has focused on the defunct
News of the World tabloid. Jones declined to say which title is
involved in the Gilchrist case. Gilchrist told the Independent
newspaper last year that police were investigating whether News
Corp.’s daily Sun newspaper hacked his phone during a union pay
dispute.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , who shuttered the News
of the World in July to help contain public anger over the
scandal, flew to London this month to tell Sun staff he’s
committed to the paper after 10 of its journalists were arrested
in a probe of reporters’ bribing public officials.  News Corp.’s U.K. unit, News International, is preparing to
start its first Sunday edition of the Sun to replace the News of
the World.  News International’s spokeswoman,  Daisy Dunlop , said the
company isn’t aware of the lawsuit’s being filed. A spokesman
for the Metropolitan Police, who couldn’t be identified in line
with office policy, declined to comment on the hacking
accusation.  Bad Time  “This allegation comes at a bad time for Rupert Murdoch,
given the impending launch of the Sun on Sunday,” said Niri Shan, who leads the media practice at Taylor Wessing LLP in
 London . If the Sun is named in the Gilchrist suit, it probably
won’t deter Murdoch, he said.  Gilchrist led the union during a strike over pay, during
which armed forces covered for firefighters for 15 days from
November 2002 to February 2003 -- the first national strike by
firefighters in 25 years. The News of the World and the Sun both
published stories about Gilchrist’s personal life, including a
marital affair.  The only confirmed phone-hacking claim against the Sun was
made by the actor Jude Law, who focused most of his lawsuit on
the News of the World. That case was settled last month for
130,000 pounds ($204,000).  A Welsh singer, Charlotte Church, agreed to settle her suit
days before it was scheduled to go to trial on Feb. 27 in
London, her spokesman said in an e-mailed statement.  News International has paid more than $15 million to settle
other cases, and the police have identified more than 800 likely
victims.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  The case is Gilchrist v. News Group Newspapers, HC12C00562,
 High Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division  (London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London
at   elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 