-- Northeast Utilities 4th-Quarter Profit Fell 12% on Weather
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-02-23T22:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/northeast-utilities-4th-quarter-profit-fell-12-on-weather-1-.html
Northeast Utilities (NU) , the New England
utility trying to take over Nstar, said fourth-quarter profit
fell as milder weather and an October blackout reduced
electricity consumption.  Net income declined to $113.3 million, or 64 cents a share,
from $129.3 million, or 73 cents, a year earlier, Northeast said
in a release today. Excluding storm-related costs, per-share
profit was 5 cents more than the 69-cent average of eight
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales fell 11 percent to $1.07 billion as a record October
snowstorm knocked out power for as long as a week across
 Connecticut , where two-thirds of Northeast’s 2 million customers
live. Average temperature in the quarter was 34 percent warmer
than normal for the state, according to the National Climatic
Data Center.  Northeast Utilities,  New England ’s largest utility, is
based in Springfield,  Massachusetts  and run from Hartford,
Connecticut.  Demand (NOAHCONN)  for heating fell 17 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier in the state, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Fourth-quarter net income was reduced by $17.9 million, or
10 cents a share, because of a storm fund created for customers
who lost power for a week or more after the October storm.  Takeover Review  Connecticut regulators are reviewing Northeast’s planned
takeover of Nstar, Boston’s largest utility, after an October
snowstorm knocked out power to the majority of Northeast
Utilities’ customers in the state. Northeast said in December
that storm recovery costs totaled $202.5 million.  Approval from Connecticut regulators is the last hurdle to
Northeast’s acquisition of  Nstar (NST)  after the companies settled
concerns in Massachusetts on Feb. 15 by agreeing to purchase
power from an offshore wind farm supported by Governor  Deval Patrick , freeze rates through 2016 and give consumers a $21
million rate credit.  “We believe the deal will get done with limited headline
risk, and no longer expect significant dilution” for
Northeast’s shareholders, Andrew Weisel, a utilities’ analyst at
Macquarie Capital USA Inc. in New York, said in a February 16
research note.  Results were announced after regular trading ended today on
U.S. markets. Northeast fell 0.6 percent to $35.74 at the close
in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  