-- Novogratz Calls Euro Liability as Chanos Expects Exits
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-02-23T23:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/novogratz-says-euro-liability-currency-for-years-as-chanos-expects-exits.html
Michael Novogratz of  Fortress
Investment Group LLC (FIG)  said the euro will decline this year, and
Litespeed Management LLC’s Jamie Zimmerman and Kynikos
Associates Ltd.’s  Jim Chanos  said Greece will exit the currency.  “It’s a liability currency this year,” Novogratz said in
an interview during “Titans at the Table,” which airs tonight
at 9 p.m.  New York  time on Bloomberg Television. “It will be
the entire year. It probably will be a liability currency for
the next few years.”  Novogratz, 47, principal and director at New York-based
Fortress, said the  European Central Bank  may lower  interest
rates  or inject more money into the economy, spurring the euro
to fall. He isn’t calling for countries to leave the currency,
he said.  European finance ministers approved a 130 billion-euro
($172 billion) package for  Greece  on Feb. 21 by tapping into ECB
profits and convincing investors to provide more debt relief to
the Mediterranean country. The deal includes a 53.5 percent
writedown for investors in the nation’s debt. The package means
Greece won’t miss a 14.5 billion-euro debt payment scheduled for
next month, which risked triggering concern that other nations
might also default.  Zimmerman, chief executive officer and founder of
Litespeed, and Chanos, 54, president and founder of Kynikos,
whose hedge funds are both based in New York, said Greece will
be forced out of the euro.  Euro Breakup  Portugal  may also have to exit, Chanos said in the
interview, taped Feb. 13 at Danny Meyer’s The Modern restaurant.  “Gone,” Zimmerman said after being asked for her thoughts
on the euro currency. “Parts of it are. I think Greece goes
back to the drachma. The rest of it stays for a while. It’s
shocking.”  There is about a 29 percent chance that at least one
country currently using the euro will change its official
currency by Dec. 31, based on bets made at Intrade.com
yesterday.  John Paulson , the hedge fund manager, said in a
letter to clients this month that Greece may default by the end
of March and trigger the breakup of the currency.  Zimmerman is finding opportunities in European and U.S.
companies undergoing restructurings, she said. Litespeed is also
taking advantage of a steady stream of bankruptcies, she said,
recounting the recent filings of American Airlines Inc.,  Eastman
Kodak Co (EKDKQ) . and  MF Global Holdings Ltd (MFGLQ) .  Best Ideas  Managers were asked to give their best investment ideas for
this year. Steve Kuhn, head of fixed-income trading and
portfolio manager at Minnetonka, Minnesota-based Pine River
Capital Management LP, said he is betting that the price of
subprime debt will climb, echoing similar calls by managers
including Paulson, Greg Lippmann of LibreMax Capital LLC and
Kyle Bass of Hayman Capital Management LP.  “We should reverse the big short,” Kuhn said, referring
to investors who made some of the biggest profits from the 2007
bust in U.S. mortgages. “Being long subprime mortgage bonds in
2012 might be the best long, at least for 2012. Every other form
of taking credit risk is more expensive.”  Kuhn recommended buying  Two Harbors Investment Corp. (TWO) , a
publicly traded REIT run by Pine River Capital that purchased
subprime bonds last year.  Novogratz said he is betting on emerging-market currencies
for the first part of this year as he seeks more exposure to
market risk. Twenty-two of 25 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg advanced against the dollar in January. He expects
the U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to reach as high as 1,390,
and didn’t cite a time range for the gain.  “We’re long risk,” Novogratz said. “Then it’ll be over
and we’ll probably take the reverse side of it.”  China Shorts  Chanos said he is shorting, or betting against, Chinese
developers and banks, as well as financial-services, machinery
and cement companies. Chinese lenders don’t have enough capital
to offset bad loans as economic growth slows, he said. He is
also wagering against Australian and Brazilian mining companies,
which sell commodities to  China . In a short sale, an investor
borrows a security and sells it, expecting to profit from a
decline by repurchasing it later at a lower price.  “The government is now acknowledging it’s going to have to
defer repayments of lots of loans,” said Chanos, who predicted
the collapse of  Enron Corp (ENRNQ) . in 2001. “It’s just unprecedented,
whether it’s infrastructure, manufacturing, residential real
estate, commercial real estate. Everything now is going into
over-supply over there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  