-- Obama’s Corporate Tax Plan Could Be Fairer and Simpler: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-23T00:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/obama-s-plan-for-corporate-tax-overhaul-could-be-fairer-and-simpler-view.html
President  Barack Obama ’s corporate-
tax framework, unveiled Wednesday, recognizes that the U.S. tax
code desperately needs a spring cleaning. There are too many
loopholes, deductions, subsidies, allowances and special rules.  The 35 percent statutory rate is also too high, especially
because most companies have figured out how not to pay it, and
most countries have dropped their rates below the U.S.’s.  We agree it’s time to lower the marginal rate, conceivably
to 25 percent -- lower than Obama’s proposed 28 percent -- which
is about where it stood after the last tax reform 25 years ago.
Obama’s proposal goes a long way toward streamlining the code
and broadening the base of tax-paying corporations, but it
contains some obvious flaws and comes up short in a few areas.
Luckily, there’s time to fix it.  It was 1986 when the U.S. tax system got a thorough going-
over in President  Ronald Reagan ’s second term. In the quarter
century since, Congress has been unable to resist adding new
breaks and loopholes, and then having to raise rates to prevent
a hemorrhaging of revenue. As a share of gross domestic product,
 corporate taxes  now make up a mere 1.16 percent, versus more
than 4 percent in 1960, according to a study released in
November by Citizens for Tax Justice, a small, left-wing think
tank.  Reagan created a commission in 1984 to examine the tax code
after Citizens for Tax Justice noted then that many large
companies were paying little or no taxes. Reagan wanted to get
the subject off the table until after that year’s elections, but
two years later, tax reform ended up passing.  Same Dynamic  The same dynamic may be happening again. It’s a
presidential election year, and Obama’s framework is meant to
get the subject off the table until after November. Citizens for
Tax Justice has even come out with another report concluding
that corporations again are avoiding paying taxes.  The nonprofit group, along with the Institute on Taxation
and  Economic Policy , looked at 280 of the biggest and most
profitable U.S. companies. A quarter of them paid less than 10
percent in taxes over the three years 2008 to 2010. Thirty
companies, including such familiar names as Boeing Co., Verizon
Communications Inc. and  Wells Fargo & Co ., paid little or no
taxes in at least one of the three years.  Only about a quarter of the companies studied paid close to
the official 35 percent rate. The average annual tax rate for
all 280 was 18.5 percent over the three years, barely half the
official rate, yet they reported almost $1.4 trillion in pretax
profits. (The  U.S. Treasury  estimates the effective U.S.
marginal  tax rate  at 29.2 percent for all corporations.)  To address this, Obama’s  blueprint , while light on details,
includes several approaches we endorse. It would discourage
outsourcing by imposing a minimum tax on overseas profits
(sadly, without saying what the minimum would be) and
eliminating breaks for moving operations abroad. The current
system, in which companies can defer income taxes on foreign
profits until they are repatriated, unfairly rewards companies
for leaving the U.S. and robs it of revenue.  The president’s plan would also eliminate many unwarranted
preferences, such as oil and gas subsidies, breaks for corporate
aircraft and accounting gimmicks that allow companies to
artificially lower reported earnings. Most important, it does
not increase the bloated federal  budget deficit .  In many ways, though, the plan is too timid and internally
contradictory. It suggests, but doesn’t outright endorse,
reducing the deductibility of interest on corporate debt. It’s a
smart idea and, as we have said, removes some of the incentive
to borrow rather than raise equity capital, and would bring in
much-needed  tax revenue .  ‘Brutal’ Arithmetic  Administration officials said the 28 percent rate was based
on “brutal” arithmetic that lowered corporate levies without
worsening the deficit. The math is complicated, but boils down
to this: The plan would save $250 billion over the next decade
by wiping out an abundance of loopholes and special-interest
breaks, and would apply those savings to new breaks for
manufacturers, research and experimentation, and clean energy.
So-called advanced manufacturing, whatever that is, would get
even richer tax breaks.  It’s unrealistic, we know, to expect a pure  tax code  in
which every company pays the same rate. For example, one widely
used tax break, the depreciation allowance, may need to be kept,
even though it’s confusing and often abused. Companies must have
a way to deal with the fact that equipment and buildings wear
out and need to be replaced. And some tax breaks, such as those
for clean energy and research, are largely justifiable because
they benefit the entire country and are vital to the future
economy.  Still, the goal should be to do away with as many
preferences as possible. The Obama framework does this with one
hand, and then undoes it with the other.  The Obama plan also increases the potential for tax code
gamesmanship. It says, for example, that the minimum tax on
overseas profits shouldn’t penalize businesses engaging in
“activities which, by necessity, must occur in a foreign
country.” Administration officials have in mind exemptions for
things like building and operating hotels abroad, but we spy a
loophole that could undermine the provision’s intent.  When all is said and done, some corporations may get a
better deal and some may get a worse deal. Making corporate
taxes fairer and simpler won’t be easy when reform produces as
many losers as winners. But with both parties claiming  tax
reform  as a goal, there’s no excuse not to begin an earnest
discussion now.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 