-- Obama Turns to Web Industry for Consumer Privacy Standard
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-02-23T19:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/obama-looks-to-web-industry-for-online-consumer-privacy-standard.html
The Obama administration unveiled an
initiative to give consumers more control over their personal
information online, calling on Internet companies such as  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  to develop common privacy standards.  Congress should enact a privacy bill of rights for Web
users, the administration said in a report released today in
Washington. The U.S. Commerce Department also plans to convene
industry and consumer groups to develop voluntary codes of
conduct for online privacy that would be enforced by the Federal
Trade Commission, according to the report.  “Consumers can’t wait any longer for clear rules of the
road that ensure their personal information is safe online,”
President  Barack Obama  said in a statement. “As the Internet
evolves, consumer trust is essential for the continued growth of
the digital economy.”  Revelations about potential privacy vulnerabilities during
the past year have spurred calls from regulators and lawmakers
in  Washington  for stronger protections of personal data online
and on Internet-connected mobile devices.  Google and Facebook, the world’s largest social network,
are among Web companies facing scrutiny over their handling of
consumer data used to power an online ad market projected to
reach $39.5 billion in the U.S. this year, according to
eMarketer Inc., a New York-based research firm.  Targeted Advertising  The White House report sets broad principles for the use of
personal information that include giving consumers control over
what data is collected on them and how it is used; providing
understandable privacy policies; and handling consumer data
securely. The Commerce Department will meet with companies and
privacy advocates to develop voluntary standards for businesses
based on the principles.  Jeff Chester , executive director of the Center for Digital
Democracy, which has urged regulators to review the handling of
consumer data by companies including Facebook and Google, said
privacy advocates “cannot accept any ‘deal’ that doesn’t really
protect consumers, and merely allows the data-profiling status
quo to remain.” Consumers, not Internet companies, should be in
control of their personal information, Chester said.  The FTC, which can act against companies that engage in
unfair or deceptive trade practices, last year settled
complaints against Google, Facebook and Twitter Inc. over how
those companies handle consumer data.  Do Not Track  Privacy advocates have expressed concern that Internet
companies are tracking consumers without permission to send
targeted advertising based on their Web-browsing habits.  Online-advertising networks are committing to adhere to
anti-tracking tools on most major Web browsers, said Stu Ingis,
general counsel of the Digital Advertising Alliance, an
association of online ad groups that is spearheading the effort.  “The consumer will have the ability to exercise choice,”
Ingis said at a White House briefing today. He said the
development of a new browser tool will make it clear and simple
for consumers to say whether they want to be tracked or not.  Google, owner of the world’s most-popular search engine,
said today it would allow a “do-not-track” button to be
embedded in its Web browser to let users limit the amount of
information gathered on their browsing habits.  “The best way to protect your privacy is to enable you to
exercise choice through meaningful product controls,” Susan Wojcicki, Google’s senior vice president of advertising, said in
a statement. “We are pleased that today’s agreement will ensure
that users are given an explicit choice.”  Privacy ‘Milestone’  Companies including Facebook and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the
world’s largest software maker, welcomed what they called a
balanced approach to online privacy.  Calling on industry to sit down with privacy advocates
seeks “to both honor the expectations consumers have when they
use online services and to promote the innovation that has
fueled the growth of the Internet into an engine of  job creation 
and a provider of invaluable services,” Erin Egan, Facebook’s
Chief Privacy Officer for Policy, said in an e-mailed statement.  Fred Humphries, Microsoft’s vice president of U.S.
government affairs, called the administration report a
“milestone” for consumer privacy.  “We are hopeful that the policy’s establishment of a
robust stakeholder dialogue will lead to more specific solutions
and help overcome challenges faster,” Humphries said in an e-
mailed statement.  ‘Legal Certainty’  U.S. lawmakers have yet to approve comprehensive
legislation on online privacy. A law based on the White House
consumer-privacy bill of rights “would increase legal certainty
for companies, strengthen consumer trust, and bolster the  United
States ’ ability to lead consumer data privacy engagements with
our international partners,” the administration said.  Even if Congress doesn’t enact the principles, they “will
serve as a template for privacy protections that increase
consumer trust on the Internet and promote innovation,”
according to the report.  Senator John Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat who
chairs the Senate Commerce Committee, said he would still push
for a privacy law, “because I believe consumer privacy is a
right, not a luxury.” Rockefeller said that he would “closely
monitor” the industry effort to work out voluntary codes of
behavior “to make sure that consumer expectations are, in fact,
being met.”  Google Privacy Policy  Complaints have been sparked by a new privacy policy
announced by Google, owner of the world’s most-popular search
engine. Under the change set to take effect March 1,  Mountain
View , California-based Google will unify privacy settings for 60
different services, including YouTube videos and mobile devices
running on its Android software.  The National Association of  Attorneys General  criticized
the company’s decision, saying the new policy doesn’t give
consumers choices about pooling their data, according to a
letter sent yesterday to Google Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  signed by 36 state attorneys general.  The Electronic Privacy Information Center, a Washington-
based advocacy group known as EPIC, filed a lawsuit Feb. 8
seeking to compel the FTC to sue Google to block the changes.  “The White House has set out an important and far-reaching
framework for online privacy,”  Marc Rotenberg , EPIC’s executive
director, said in an e-mailed statement today. “The key now is
enforcement and the immediate test facing the FTC is whether it
will block Google’s proposed changes prior to March 1.”  Chris Gaither , a spokesman for Google, said in an e-mail
that the new policy will make privacy practices easier to
understand and Google’s services easier to use.  “We’ve undertaken the most extensive notification effort
in Google’s history,” he said. “We’re continuing to offer
choice and control over how people use our services.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  