-- Obama Says Rising Pump Prices Reminder of Why U.S. Must Go Beyond Drilling
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-02-23T22:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/obama-returns-to-florida-for-campaign-cash-speech-on-energy.html
President  Barack Obama  said rising
gasoline prices are a “painful reminder” of why the U.S. must
develop alternative energy sources, and he criticized
Republicans who he said were offering slogans rather than
strategy.  Obama, in Miami promoting his administration’s energy and
economic policies as the Republican presidential candidates have
ramped up attacks on him over prices at the pump, said the U.S.
must go beyond focusing on domestic gas and oil exploration.  Without naming any of his Republican critics, Obama mocked
“their three-point plans for $2 gas,” which amounts to more
drilling for oil on U.S. territory.  “Anyone who tells you we can drill our way out of this
problem doesn’t know what they’re talking about -- or isn’t
telling you the truth,” Obama said at the  University of Miami 
after touring an industrial machine lab at the school.  The rising cost of gasoline threatens to crimp  consumer
spending , which accounts for 70 percent of the  U.S. economy , at
a time the recovery is gaining strength. Economic concerns loom
as the top issue in the November election.  The  average price  for regular gasoline at the pump has
risen to the highest ever for this time of year -- $3.61 a
gallon, according to  AAA  data. The average price is nine cents
higher in Florida, a swing state targeted by both parties in the
presidential election. Today marks Obama’s 14th visit to Florida
since his inauguration in 2009.  Mideast Instability  Obama said the recent bump in  oil prices  is caused by
instability in the  Middle East , including an increasing tense
confrontation with  Iran  over its nuclear program. That has
sparked some “speculative trading on  Wall Street ” that has
added to the cost of oil, he said.  Rapid growth is spurring greater demand from countries such
as China, India and  Brazil , which will cause prices to rise over
the long term, Obama said.  Crude oil for April delivery gained $1.55 cents, or 1.5
percent, to $107.83 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest settlement since May 4. Crude increased
for a sixth day after the Labor Department reported applications
for  jobless benefits  were unchanged last week at 351,000, the
fewest since March 2008, and German business confidence
surpassed forecasts.  U.S. Production  U.S. production of crude oil is at the highest level in
eight years and oil imports as a share of total consumption have
declined to 45 percent in 2011 from 57 percent in 2005,
according to a White House fact sheet. Both trends were under
way before Obama took office, according to data from the U.S.
Energy Information Administration.  Brendan Buck , a spokesman for U.S. House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said Obama “would like everyone to
forget that gas prices have doubled over the past three years
while he consistently blocked and slowed the production of
American-made energy.”  Obama said that while he supports increased domestic
exploration, his administration also is working to increase
vehicle fuel efficiency and bolstering use of alternatives to
crude oil, including natural gas.  In conjunction with the speech, the White House said the
government will make $30 million available to advance research
into fueling more vehicles with natural gas and another $14
million to make fuel out of algae.  No ‘Silver Bullet’  “There is not a silver bullet, there never has been,”
Obama said.  Obama didn’t identify the Republicans who he said were
offering “bumper sticker” slogans on energy.  Republican presidential candidate Newt Gingrich promised
yesterday at a debate in Arizona that he’s developed an energy
program “so every American can look forward to $2.50 a gallon
gasoline.”  Responding to Obama today, Gingrich said the U.S. could add
2.4 million new barrels of oil per day to supplies by approving
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL oil pipeline, re-opening areas
of the  Gulf of Mexico  to drilling and permitting exploration and
production in certain regions of Alaska.  “Blaming instability in the Middle East for high gas
prices is not leadership,” Gingrich said in an e-mailed
statement.  The two leading Republicans in the race, former Senator
Rick Santorum and former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney also
have criticized Obama’s policies, particularly his
administration’s denial of a permit to build the Keystone
pipeline from  Canada ’s oil sands to refineries on the Gulf of
Mexico.  Tax Plan  Obama’s remarks followed the administration’s release
yesterday of a plan to revamp the tax code that would reduce the
 corporate tax  rate to 28 percent from 35 percent and keep
incentives for renewable energy while eliminating some tax
breaks for the oil and gas industries.  An oil industry executive said that while the industry
supports a reduction in tax rates, Obama’s plan increases taxes
on the oil and gas industry by $86 billion and his energy
policies  “The actions don’t match the words,”  Jack Gerard , the
president of the  American Petroleum Institute , said today in a
phone interview from  Washington  after Obama spoke. “They’re not
taking actions to put downward pressure on prices, instead of
making public statements trying to suggest they are.”  Florida Fundraisers  Obama also is using his  Florida  visit to attend three
fundraisers, two in the Miami area and one in the Orlando area
at the home of Dallas Mavericks basketball player Vince Carter,
according to a Democratic National Committee official who wasn’t
authorized to discuss the events on the record.  The Miami-area events include a reception for 450 people at
the Biltmore Hotel in  Coral Gables , with tickets ranging from
$1,000 to $5,000, as well as some $500 tickets for younger
voters.  “Your country needs your help,” Obama told donors at the
Biltmore. He said they should follow the Republican presidential
contest “in case you need an incentive.”  A fundraiser at the home of lawyer and real estate
developer Chris Korge, with tickets ranging from $15,000 to
$30,000, was expected to draw 100 supporters, the DNC official
said.  The event at Carter’s home in Windermere is expected to
draw 70 supporters, with tickets at $30,000.  Florida is a major prize in the presidential election, with
29 of the 270 electoral votes needed to win the White House and
a recent history of swinging between the Democratic and
Republican candidates. Obama won the state in 2008 while
Republican  George W. Bush  won in 2000 and 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  