-- Oil Supply Boosts in U.S., Russia to Spur Benchmarks, Argus Says
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-02-23T12:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/oil-supply-boosts-in-u-s-russia-to-spur-benchmarks-argus-says.html
Rising U.S. and Russian crude
production will probably spur the use of new benchmarks, Argus
Media Inc., an energy news and pricing agency, said.  Light Louisiana Sweet (USCRLLSS)  and East Siberian Pacific Ocean
grades, or LLS and ESPO respectively, are becoming more relevant
markers as the U.S. boost shale crude output and  Russia  raises
production from its eastern fields.  “The industry should probably look to nurture benchmarks
in the Gulf Coast and Russia’s Kozmino port because there is
declining supply behind the benchmarks in the  Middle East  and
North Sea,” Dan Massey, president of Argus Media, said by phone
from  London  yesterday.  As oil-product exports from the U.S. Gulf increase, the
refining hub is becoming more important as a center for pricing
both high-quality crude and cheaper grades with higher sulfur,
Massey said. U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate is today
trading at about $17.50 a barrel  less than  North Sea Brent
futures amid rising stockpiles at Cushing, Oklahoma, the
delivery point for WTI contracts.  “The actual physical price is going to be set at the  Gulf
Coast ,” he said, citing rising trading volumes for LLS and the
Argus Sour Crude Index, the reference for as much as 23 percent
of U.S. oil imports, including shipments from  Saudi Arabia ,
Kuwait and Iraq.  Increasing exports from Russia’s ESPO pipeline system,
which will be able to transport 900,000 barrels a day by early
next year, may boost the blend’s use as a benchmark, he said.  “The spot markets thrive where there is excess supply,”
Massey said. “In markets where there is a shortage, you have
less valid benchmarks.”  Argus’s competitor Platts, the energy news and pricing unit
of McGraw-Hill Cos., said on Feb. 20 it may add more grades to
its  North Sea   Dated Brent (EUCRBRDT)  benchmark. The marker, used to price
more than half of the world’s oil, composed of Brent, Forties,
Oseberg and Ekofisk crudes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  