-- Oil Increases to Nine-Month High on U.S. Jobs Report, German Confidence
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-02-23T21:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/oil-falls-for-first-time-in-six-days-on-forecast-u-s-supplies-to-grow.html
Oil rose to the highest level in
more than nine months as jobless claims held at a four-year low
in the U.S. and  German business confidence  surpassed forecasts,
signs fuel consumption may improve.  Crude increased for a sixth day after the Labor Department
reported applications for  jobless benefits  were unchanged last
week at 351,000, the fewest since March 2008. The growth in
German confidence eased concern that the region’s largest
economy would be affected by the European debt crisis.  “Everybody is still watching economic data,” said  Tom Bentz , a director with BNP Paribas Prime Brokerage Inc. in New
York. “The German confidence index and other data give people
reason to stay bullish.”  Crude oil for April delivery gained $1.55, or 1.5 percent,
to $107.83 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
highest settlement since May 4. Oil has risen 9.9 percent in the
past year.  Brent oil for April settlement increased 72 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $123.62 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in  London .  U.S. jobless claims were lower than the median projection
of 355,000 in a Bloomberg News survey, marking the fourth
straight week that the figures have been better than forecast.  The Munich-based Ifo institute said its German  business
climate index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to
109.6 in February from January’s 108.3. Economists predicted an
increase to 108.8, according to a Bloomberg News  survey . The
February reading is the fourth straight gain and the highest
level since July.  European Crisis  “We are looking at the strong number coming out of
 Germany ,” said  Phil Flynn , an analyst at PFGBest in  Chicago .
“The jobs numbers were not very exciting but it can help the
market.”  Oil has advanced 9.1 percent this year as European
officials approved a second Greek bailout to prevent a debt
default that could have derailed the regional economy and as
tensions mounted between  Iran  and Western countries, threatening
Persian Gulf oil supplies.  The 27 members of the European Union accounted for 16
percent of global oil consumption last year, according to BP
Plc’s annual Statistical Review of World Energy.  Iran, OPEC’s second-largest oil producer after  Saudi
Arabia , said earlier this week that it stopped selling crude to
 France  and Britain in a move designed to pre-empt European
sanctions set to begin in four months. The EU agreed Jan. 23 to
ban crude imports from Iran starting July 1 to pressure the
country over its nuclear program.  Middle East  “The market is up because of the  Middle East ,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com
in Chicago.  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , the Turkish bank that handles
payments for Iranian oil, will stop processing transactions for
supplies into Turkish refineries from July amid tightening
Western sanctions against the Persian Gulf state.  Tupras Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri AS (TUPRS) , which operates four
refineries, won’t be able to use the bank from the end of June
unless it gets a U.S. waiver, a Tupras official said today,
declining to be identified citing company policy.  Oil prices  also gained after the Energy Department reported
 inventories at Cushing, Oklahoma , the delivery point for West
Texas Intermediate oil traded on the Nymex, fell 1 percent to
32.2 million barrels. It’s the first decline in five weeks.  “I can’t imagine that’s pushing up WTI today but it could
be supportive,” Bentz said.  U.S. Inventories  Prices fell earlier after the Energy Department said U.S.
total oil consumption dropped 1.4 percent to 18.1 million
barrels a day in the four weeks ended Feb. 17, the lowest level
in more than 14 years.  Oil supplies  increased 1.63 million barrels to 340.7
million last week, the most since Sept. 23, according to the
department. They were forecast to grow 1.35 million barrels
based on the median of 10 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey.  “The inventory numbers are bearish,” said  John Kilduff , a
partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that
focuses on energy. “It’s not having that much of an impact on
prices in part because of the countervailing factors such as the
good weekly jobless claims number.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 664,786
contracts as of 3:36 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 556,363
contracts yesterday, 6.5 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.46 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  