-- Hong Kong Regulator Wins Tiger Asia Appeal, Power to Sue
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-02-24T02:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/hong-kong-securities-watchdog-wins-tiger-asia-court-appeal-on-power-to-sue.html
Hong Kong ’s securities regulator won
the right to independently seek civil remedies from suspected
rule breakers after a court reversed the striking out of its
case against hedge fund Tiger Asia Management LLC.  Court of Appeal Judge Robert Tang wrote in a ruling handed
down yesterday that such a power “provides much needed
ammunition to the commission to protect investors.”  The Securities and Futures Commission has been fighting for
the ability to sue for relief before asking the Financial
Secretary to bring a civil market misconduct inquiry. Criminal
prosecution is a challenging alternative when nearly half of
share trading turnover comes from overseas investors, according
to the most recent  Hong Kong stock exchange data .  Mark Steward, the SFC’s enforcement chief, said the
judgment vindicated the agency’s actions in several such cases,
which it will “continue to prosecute fairly and vigorously.”  The SFC alleges that New York-based Tiger Asia traded on
inside information from bankers arranging placements of  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  and Bank of  China  Ltd. shares in 2008
and 2009, pocketing HK$38.5 million ($4.9 million). The hedge
fund firm, which has no employees and physical presence in Hong
Kong, denied the allegations in an Oct. 12, 2010 letter to
investors.  The decision means the SFC’s case against the hedge fund
firm “will proceed,” the regulator said in a statement
yesterday without elaborating.  Final Appeal  Simon Clarke, a lawyer for Tiger Asia employee William Tomita, said the defendants plan to appeal the case to Hong
Kong’s highest court.  Former SFC enforcement head Alan Linning, who represents
the hedge fund firm, has argued the regulator can’t use a
provision for obtaining temporary freezing orders -- known as
section 213 of the Securities and Futures Ordinance -- to bring
its own lawsuit seeking to ban Tiger Asia from trading in Hong
Kong and to unwind its transactions.  Under Steward, the commission has sought to assert this
power in lawsuits against  Hontex International Holdings Co. (946) , and
former executives of China Forestry Holdings Ltd. and Gome
Electrical Appliance Holding Ltd.  The SFC is seeking to return to investors HK$1 billion
raised by Hontex in a 2009 initial share sale after alleging it
disclosed false or misleading information in its listing
prospectus. Prosecuting those in charge of the company isn’t
possible because they fled to  Taiwan  or mainland China, Simon Westbrook, a lawyer for the SFC, said in June.  Outside the Jurisdiction  A Hong Kong double jeopardy rule makes criminal prosecution
and civil tribunal proceedings mutually exclusive. Tang wrote in
the judgment that investor protection shouldn’t “come at the
price of forgoing criminal prosecution” where defendants are
outside of the jurisdiction.  Almost one in four companies listed in Hong Kong are
neither incorporated nor domiciled within the jurisdiction,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mainland Chinese
companies made up 46 percent of the exchange’s market
capitalization through the end of December, according to stock
exchange statistics.  “It’s important for the market as a whole to know what the
boundaries of the SFC’s powers are,” said Gareth Hughes, a Hong
Kong-based disputes lawyer at Ashurst LLP.  The regulator is focused on putting counterparties and
other victims of market misconduct back into the position they
were in before any questionable transactions took place, Steward
said in an interview before the appeal.  “If a person is not in the jurisdiction but their assets
are, then the court can decide whether there are grounds to
freeze them,” he said. “We can’t say the job is done until
victims have been remediated.”  The case is Securities and Futures Commission and Tiger
 Asia  Management LLC, Sung Kook Hwang Bill, Raymond Park, William
Tomita, CACV178/2011 in the Hong Kong Court of Appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  