-- Top Lenders See Asia Loan Boost
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-02-23T07:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/top-lenders-see-asia-loan-boost.html
The region’s biggest lenders say
property deals and refinancing will buoy Asia-Pacific syndicated
loans in 2012 after the slowest start in eight years.  ConnectEast Group, the owner of the EastLink motorway in
 Melbourne , approached banks for a A$1.2 billion ($1.3 billion)
loan to refinance debt, according to three people familiar with
the matter, asking not to be identified because the details are
private. Temasek Holdings Pte and Khazanah Nasional Bhd., state-
owned investment companies of Singapore and  Malaysia , may sign
S$5 billion ($3.9 billion) of real-estate loans as early as next
month, said another person.  Syndicated lending dropped to $12.8 billion this year, down
71 percent from the same period last year, making it the worst
start since 2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Companies outside of  Japan  have as much as $47.9 billion of bank
debt to refinance this year and an additional $210 billion
before 2016, data on 1,531 loans tracked by Bloomberg show.  “The pipeline in  Asia  is building fast,” said John
Corrin, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.’s Hong Kong-
based global head of loan syndications, before today’s Asia-
Pacific Loan Market Association’s seminar in Singapore. “I
wouldn’t say volumes will top 2011, but it’s certainly not doom
and gloom. There are quite a lot of deals which are under way
but haven’t signed yet.”  ANZ organized the most loans in the region last year and
was the market’s second-biggest arranger by volume.  Loan Margins Increase  U.S. dollar-denominated loan margins in the region averaged
258 basis points, or 2.58 percentage points, in the second half
of 2011 compared with 236 the first six months as banks’
borrowing costs climbed.  “Deals need to be paying one to two times more than a year
ago, particularly in north and south Asia, driven by the lack of
domestic liquidity and against the backdrop of a more cautious
credit environment,” said Boey Yin Chong, the Singapore-based
managing director of syndicated finance at  DBS Group Holdings
Ltd. (DBS)  “Banks will be also doing more due diligence on borrowers
and seeking additional comfort by demanding the security of
tangible assets for loans where possible.”  DBS,  Southeast Asia ’s largest bank, was the region’s 13th
biggest arranger of loans last year of 229 lenders in the
region, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Melco, Longfor  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd., a casino developer, hired
seven banks to arrange a loan of about $1.25 billion to fund the
development of a new property project in Macau, two people
familiar with the matter said earlier this month, asking not to
be identified because details are private.  Longfor Properties Co., the developer controlled by  China ’s
richest woman Wu Yajun, will meet with loans bankers in  Hong
Kong  tomorrow as it seeks to borrow the equivalent of HK$2
billion ($258 million) in a three-year  term loan , a person
familiar with the matter said today, asking not to be named
because the details are private.  Merger and acquisition activity will also support loans
this year, according to ANZ’s Corrin. M&A volumes in China more
than doubled this month versus January compared with a 31
percent slump in the U.S. as its economy is hampered by
lingering impediments from the collapse in housing prices and
the 2008 financial crisis.  China is among nations that have scope to boost spending
and cut borrowing costs to protect their economies if the global
slowdown worsens, the  International Monetary Fund  said on Jan.
31. While the fund cut its economic growth forecast for
developing Asia to 7.3 percent in 2012 from a September estimate
of 8 percent, that’s still higher than the global prediction of
3.3 percent this year.  A record $462 billion of loans were signed in the region
last year compared with $379 billion in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in  Singapore  at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  