-- Morgan Stanley's Fels Warns Against Complacency on Crisis
-- B y   T o m   K e e n e   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-02-23T16:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/morgan-stanley-s-fels-warns-against-complacency-on-euro-crisis.html
Policy makers mustn’t underestimate
the consequences of a possible Greek euro exit, which could
spark a run on lenders and overwhelm the  European Central Bank ,
said  Joachim Fels , Morgan Stanley’s head of global economics.  “Investors are relieved there was a deal,” Fels said on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday” yesterday, after 
Greece won a second bailout this week for 130 billion euros 
($173 billion) to avert default. “This crisis isn’t over.”  European finance ministers agreed to provide Greece with
the rescue package on Feb. 21 as representatives of the nation’s
private creditors signed up to a debt swap that will lead to a
net present value loss on their holdings of more than 70
percent. The accords, which depend on more Greek austerity, are
intended to help the nation avoid default when bond repayments
come due next month.  “Many investors still doubt we’ve resolved the underlying
problems,” Fels said. “There’s a sigh of relief, but most
people believe there’s probably more to come down the road.”  Even with investors and central bankers chipping in to
relieve the debt burden, economists see risks that  Greece  may
again fail to deliver on its fiscal pledges amid a fifth year of
recession, looming elections and social unrest. Some investors
and policy makers underestimate the consequences that would come
from Greece exiting the euro, Fels said.  ‘Complacency’  “I detect a certain amount of complacency,” he said. A
Greek exit would stoke doubts about the euro’s future, meaning
“investors and citizens would no longer believe that a 1 euro
bank deposit in Portugal and Italy is the same as 1 euro bank
deposit in  Germany . You’d get a run on banks, another run on
sovereigns and this could well be too big” for the ECB to
counter.  Europe ’s economy will shrink in 2012, with  Italy  and  Spain 
facing sudden crunches as they battle to escape the debt crisis,
the European Commission said in a report today. To cushion the
fall, the ECB will probably reduce its benchmark lending rate
further after two 25 basis-point cuts since November, Fels said.  “The ECB has been reasonably aggressive, but if you want
to boost demand further, you need to see more aggressive
action,” he said. “We think we’ll get more rate cuts and
potentially the ECB might move to outright quantitative easing
later this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  