-- Hormel Foods Chief Says Climbing Meat Costs Squeezed Profits
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-02-23T20:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/hormel-foods-chief-says-climbing-meat-costs-squeezed-profits.html
Hormel Foods Corp. (HRL) , the maker of
Spam lunchmeat and Bacon Bits, said an increase in meat costs
reduced profits in the company’s first fiscal quarter.  Operating profit from Hormel grocery products fell 9.2
percent in the three months ended Jan. 29 from the same period a
year earlier, because of higher raw-material costs, the Austin,
Minnesota-based company said in a statement today. Lower profit
margins on pork also cut earnings from refrigerated foods by 44
percent, Hormel said.  “What occurred this quarter that did sweep across both
areas was unexpectedly high input costs,” Chief Executive
Officer Jeffrey M. Ettinger said on an earnings conference call
with analysts. “Whether it’s pork trim or some of the beef
inputs, those areas that affect both franchises. On grocery, it
affects Spam, and it affects Bacon Bits when you have those
higher pork inputs, just as it does some of the items on the
meat products side.”  As of midday, wholesale-beef  prices  surged to $1.9702 a
pound, a three-month high, and are up 16 percent from a year
ago, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show. Wholesale- pork 
prices on Feb. 15 reached 88.21 cents a pound, the highest since
Dec. 19, government data show.  More expensive  Hogs (HOGSNATL)  in the U.S. are 5.9 percent more expensive than a year
ago, based on the national average price tracked by the USDA.
U.S. pork  exports  rose 23 percent last year from 2010,
government data show. Rising export demand drove up the price of
the components that go into the benchmark price of the meat,
Chief Financial Officer Jody H. Feragen said on the call. Pork
exports, while not at a record, may still be strong this year,
Feragen said.  First-quarter  net income  fell to $128.4 million, or 48
cents a share, from $148.8 million, or 55 cents, Hormel said.
The company said it expects “slowly improving results” as
profit margins on pork return to more normalized levels and
sales improve for the grocery and meat-product units.  Cattle futures rose to a record for the 11th time this year
on Feb. 22, reaching $1.315 a pound on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange. Through yesterday, the price was up 8 percent this
year. Hog futures are up 7.1 percent this year and yesterday
reached 90.975 cents a pound, the highest since Dec. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 