-- Los Angeles Gasoline Rises After California Fuel Supply Drops
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-02-23T23:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/los-angeles-gasoline-rises-after-california-fuel-supply-drops.html
California-blend gasoline in  Los
Angeles  strengthened against futures after the state Energy
Commission said inventories of the motor fuel fell to the lowest
level in seven weeks.  Gasoline supplies  dropped 8.9 percent to 6.56 million
barrels in the week ended Feb. 17, the lowest level since Dec.
30, the energy commission said.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  is starting
units at the Wilmington refinery in  Southern California  after a
maintenance turnaround on crude and coker units, said  Bill Day ,
a spokesman at the company’s headquarters in  San Antonio  said.  Carbob in  Los Angeles (MOGLDB85)  jumped 8.5 cents to a premium of 39.5
cents a gallon against gasoline futures traded on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 4:25 p.m. East Coast time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The fuel rose to the highest level in more than four months
on Feb. 21 following a fire at  BP Plc (BP/) ’s  Cherry Point (BPFECRUD)  refinery
and after workers at  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) ’s  Martinez (TEMTCRUD)  and  Anacortes (TEANCRUD) 
refineries rejected offers on a new contract.  The premium for Carbob in  San Francisco (MOGSD85P)  also rose 8 cents
to 34 cents a gallon versus gasoline futures.  San Antonio-based Tesoro extended a maintenance turnaround
at the 170,000-barrel-a-day Martinez refinery by a few more
weeks because of longer-than-expected repairs, two people
familiar with the plant’s operations said Feb. 13.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland, Oregon (MOGHD87P) , fell
4 cents to a premium of 20 cents against futures. The fuel has
strengthened 13.5 cents since BP’s Cherry Point refinery was
forced to shut after a fire at the crude unit Feb. 17.  Motor gasoline inventories  on the U.S. West Coast, known as
the Padd 5 region, fell by the most in more than four months to
30.8 million barrels last week, the Energy Department said in a
report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  