-- OSG Pulled Loan Bid After Cantor Urged U.S. to Reject It on Iran Sanction
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-02-23T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/osg-pulled-loan-bid-after-cantor-urged-u-s-to-reject-it-on-iran-sanction.html
House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor 
asked the U.S. Department of Transportation to reject  Overseas
Shipholding Group Inc. (OSG) ’s application for a federal loan
guarantee two days before the company withdrew its bid,
according to a letter obtained by Bloomberg.  OSG “is openly flaunting the spirit -- if not the letter”
of U.S. sanctions policy toward Iran, Cantor, a Virginia
Republican, said in a Feb. 15 letter to Transportation Secretary
Ray LaHood.  “I expect that your department will move quickly to deny
the company’s application” for the loan guarantee, Cantor
wrote.  OSG, based in  New York , said Feb. 17 that it was
withdrawing an application for $241.8 million in U.S. taxpayer
backing after being told by the Maritime Administration that it
wouldn’t be approved as submitted, according to a  filing  with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The maritime
agency, part of the Transportation Department, approved a $210.9
million guarantee in 2011 for a different OSG unit, though it
has said that transaction hasn’t closed.  Meghan Keck, a Transportation Department spokeswoman,
declined in an e-mail to comment on Cantor’s letter.  Charles Burgess, an OSG spokesman, declined to comment on
Cantor’s letter yesterday. He referred to a Feb. 10 statement by
Chief Executive Officer Morten Arntzen that OSG “complies with
all applicable laws and regulations concerning where and to whom
OSG trades its vessels.”  Iran Port Calls  Bloomberg reported Feb. 10 that four ships owned by OSG had
called on Kharg Island,  Iran ’s largest oil terminal, over the
past year. The vessels operated in a pool of tankers managed by
Tankers International LLC, of Limassol, Cyprus. Arntzen is that
company’s non-executive chairman.  One OSG vessel arrived at Kharg Island on Jan. 27, four
days after the European Union adopted a phased-in ban on the
insurance and transport of Iranian oil.  Tankers International told OSG that due to the EU
restrictions and “the inability of owners to maintain insurance
cover while trading with Iran,” ships in the tanker pool would
no longer call at Iranian ports, Arntzen said Feb. 10.  Cantor, in his letter, said that while the loan-guarantee
program helps the U.S. shipbuilding industry, “it strikes me as
dangerous to reward companies that are doing business with the
world’s most active state sponsor of terrorism with hundreds of
millions of dollars in taxpayer funds.”  He asked LaHood to provide him the names of any other
companies with pending loan-guarantee applications that have
done business in the past five years with Iran or other
sanctioned countries such as Syria or  North Korea .  Liquidity Options  Cantor hasn’t yet received a response, Laena Fallon, his
spokeswoman, said by phone.  OSG sought the loan guarantee to mortgage two vessels in
its fleet and use the proceeds as low-interest financing. The
company, which on Feb. 9 suspended its  quarterly dividend , will
report a loss of $178.6 million this year, down from $204.4
million in 2011, according to the median of five analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  OSG, in its  SEC filing , said the loan guarantee was one of
a “wide range” of options to improve liquidity and said the
withdrawal won’t affect its financial position.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  