-- Lou Piniella Joins Yankees YES Television Network as Special Contributor
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-02-23T05:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/lou-piniella-joins-yankees-yes-television-network-as-special-contributor.html
Lou Piniella  has joined the New York
Yankees’ television network as a special contributor.  The 68-year-old former outfielder and manager said his new
job at YES Network will allow him to stay close to his home in
Tampa,  Florida . He debuts March 4 during the Yankees’ spring
training home opener against the  Philadelphia Phillies .  “I’m honored and excited to join YES Network and be part
of the Yankee family again,” Piniella said yesterday during a
conference call. “This keeps me home a lot. Spring training is
right here in Tampa, and I’ll be available when the Yanks come
to St. Pete.”  Piniella will appear on 20 to 30 broadcasts in various
roles, including on-site game analyst, pre-game and post-game
studio analyst and contributor to special event programming,
said John Filippelli, president of production and programming
for YES.  “With five decades of experience as a player, coach,
manager and general manager, Lou brings a rare combination of
in-depth knowledge and experience to YES, which is second to
none,” Filippelli said.  Piniella’s experience in broadcasting includes a year
covering the Yankees for MSG Network in 1989, the year after he
served as general manager of the team.  Piniella played for the Yankees from 1974-84, during which
time the team won the World Series in 1977 and 1978. He was
manager in 1986 and 1987, and for part of the 1998 season after
Billy Martin left.  Piniella also was manager of the  Cincinnati Reds  from
1990-92, which included a World Series victory; the Seattle
Mariners, Tampa Bay Devil Rays and  Chicago Cubs .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  