-- Lowest Savings After Ireland Means No Upgrades: Turkey Credit
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-02-24T09:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/lowest-savings-after-ireland-means-no-upgrades-turkey-credit.html
Turkey, the fastest growing economy
after  China , is being penalized in the credit markets for its
failure to promote consumer savings.  While Turkey’s economy has grown at an average pace of 5.9
percent since 2002 and its bonds are showing the fastest
recovery among  emerging markets  from last year’s rout, its
credit ratings are stuck at the same level as Serbia and
Guatemala, whose economies are about a twentieth its size.
That’s costing the country about $8 million more for every $1
billion it borrows on international markets than  Russia , where
the  bond market  is half the size of Turkey’s, according to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI indexes .  The main culprit is a savings rate estimated by the
 International Monetary Fund  at less than 14 percent of gross
domestic product, the lowest in the world for any economy larger
than $100 billion except for Portugal, Ireland and  Greece . An
expansion in consumer lending last year of as much as 40 percent
has increased indebtedness and widened the  current-account 
deficit to $77 billion, or more than 10 percent of GDP.  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  says Turkey is the most vulnerable economy in
eastern  Europe , the  Middle East  and Africa.  “Turkish households are increasingly becoming
overstretched as the relationship between the pace of
indebtedness and savings deteriorates,” Frank Gill, a director
of sovereign ratings at  Standard & Poor’s  in  London , said in
response to e-mailed questions. “The rapid growth in consumer
lending has partially contributed to the unsustainable widening
of Turkey’s current-account deficit, which is a risk to overall
stability.”  Debt Like Jordan  S&P rates debt for Turkey, a European Union candidate, as
junk at BB, on par with Macedonia, Portugal and Jordan and one
level above Mongolia and Vietnam. Russia is rated three levels
above Turkey at BBB and Poland five levels above at A-.  Fewer than 45,000 people in a country of 74 million, or
less than 0.1 percent, account for 47 percent of the total
deposits in the  banking industry , according to data from the
 Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency  in Ankara. Some 30
percent of loans go to people making less than $575 a month, and
55 percent to those earning less than $1,200 a month. Turkey’s
average income per capita is around $10,000 a year, or $833 a
month.  “The savings rate is one of our most serious problems,”
Yavuz Canevi, chairman of  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK)  and former
governor of the central bank, said in an interview at his office
in Istanbul yesterday. “In the last 10 years, it came down from
20 percent to 12 percent, which is very alarming for a country
like Turkey.”  Yield Fall Lags  The  yield  on Turkey’s bonds denominated in dollars has
fallen 41 basis points this year to 5.35 percent, JPMorgan’s
EMBI Global index shows. The improvement trails a 44 average
basis point decrease in  emerging market yields  to 5.6 percent.  The cost of protecting Turkish bonds using five-year
credit-default swaps was little changed at 246 basis points
yesterday, compared with a spread of 200 for Russia, 206 for
Poland and 155 for the Philippines, which is also rated BB by
S&P, on par with Turkey. The figures are provided by CMA, which
is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately-negotiated market. The swaps pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail or be unable to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Fitch Outlook  Fitch Ratings  cut its outlook for Turkey to “stable” from
“positive” in November, saying the low savings rate made
Turkey prone to “macroeconomic volatility,” dependent on
foreign capital inflows and that the country had yet to show it
could “grow robustly without generating major imbalances.”
Fitch rates Turkey BB+, one level below investment grade.
Moody’s Investors Service rates it at Ba2, two steps below.  Banks, borrowing from the central bank at rates as low as
5.75 percent a year, have increased the interest they charge
consumers to an average 19.5 percent from 12 percent a year ago,
according to data from the central bank for Feb. 10. The cost
peaked at 20.1 percent on Jan. 13. Business loan rates have
jumped to 15.5 percent from 8.4 percent a year ago.  Deposit rates are between 8 percent and 9.3 percent at
 Turkiye Is Bankasi AS (ISCTR) , the biggest bank by assets.  Turkiye
Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  offers rates ranging from 6.5 to 10.5
percent, according to its website.  Rate Cut  Turkish small- and medium-sized businesses almost doubled
their debt to an average of 105,000 liras ($59,500) from 67,774
liras two years ago, according to Gill at S&P, and are expected
to “increasingly be the driver of the growth in lending going
forward.”  “The numbers suggest that 0.1 percent of depositors in
Turkey enjoy a healthy surplus, while 99.9 percent of
individuals are heavily indebted and many companies and
households are practically insolvent,” Mert Yildiz, economist
for the region at Moscow-based Renaissance Capital, said in a
telephone interview from London on Feb. 17.  “The probability of mass-bankruptcy would be very high if
the central bank hiked aggressively, which is what they should
do to contain inflation, but they’re not doing it,” Yildiz
said. “Instead they’re cutting rates to keep corporate funding
costs low, otherwise these guys go under.”  Turkish central bank Governor Erdem Basci, 45, cut  interest
rates  for banks from the top end of his range to 11.5 percent
from 12.5 percent on Feb. 21, saying he was taking account of
monetary easing in other economies. The decision followed a move
by Basci on Jan. 10 to lend more to banks at the benchmark 5.75
percent rate, the bottom of his so-called corridor.  ‘Money From Money’  After the cut this week, Turkey’s  bonds  erased all the
losses suffered in the four months since Basci started raising
interest rates in October. Turkey’s local-currency government
bonds have returned 13 percent in dollar terms so far this year,
more than any other emerging-market debt, according to
 JPMorgan’s GBI-EM Index (JGENTBUU) .  Yields on two-year benchmark bonds in liras fell 3 basis
points to 9.02 percent at 10:24 a.m. The lira gained 0.1 percent
to 1.7566 per dollar, bringing its gains this year to 7.7
percent after it was the worst currency in the world last year,
dropping 18 percent.  The loosening of monetary policy comes as Prime Minister
Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who criticized banks for making “money
from money” before parliamentary elections last June, called
for lower  interest rates  on Jan. 11, saying banks should lend
more cheaply to businesses and consumers. Turkey will defeat a
so-called high interest rates lobby that he said is trying to
force the country to pay higher interest on its debt.  Savings Are Key  Basci lowered the benchmark rate by a total of 75 basis
points last year. After the last reduction on Aug. 4, he started
to sell dollars for liras after international banks including
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  criticized the lower rates policy, saying it
would make the nation’s current-account deficit unsustainable
and spur  inflation , which surged to a three-year high of 10.6
percent in January.  The inflation rate is likely to fall to 6.5 percent by the
end of the year, according to a central bank forecast on Jan.
31. The bank raised the prediction from 5.2 percent.  Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan said in October that
increasing savings is a central policy goal to reduce reliance
on foreign capital inflows to fund the  current account deficit .  The central bank started to encourage longer-term savings
in December 2010 by increasing the reserves banks must hold on
deposits of a month or less to 11 percent from 6 percent. It
also sought to slow credit growth by raising the minimum monthly
repayment rates on credit cards to between 25 and 40 percent of
outstanding debt from 20 percent.  Bad Loans  Turkey’s rising debt level and growing current-account
deficit make it dependent on international capital and the
central bank is betting the flows will continue, according to
Isik Okte, chief strategist at Halk Invest in Istanbul, the
broker for state-run lender  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS. (HALKB)   “As long as global central banks are cooperative and
pumping liquidity into the system we will have no problem as far
as debt solvency is concerned,” Okte said in response to e-
mailed questions. “Our central bank’s model is based on this
liquidity continuing.”  While Turkey’s non-performing loan ratio remains low at 2.7
percent, according to a monthly report from the banking
regulator, brokers including Standard Unlu and EFG Istanbul
Securities say it will climb as economic growth slows.  `Beyond Our Means'  Renaissance Capital, the broker half-owned by Russian
billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , forecast the ratio of non-
performing loans in Turkey will increase next year to 4.1
percent of total loans from 2.7 percent in October. The highest
rate of default may be in car loans, at 8.1 percent, followed by
credit cards at 8 percent, according to the report from
Renaissance.  Non-performing loan ratios hit 10 percent for small- and
medium-sized businesses in 2009, when Turkey’s economy
contracted by 4.7 percent, while credit card defaults rose to
nearly 20 percent, according to Gill at S&P.  “We are not an over-borrowed nation,” said Canevi, the
former central banker. “We have just started living beyond our
means.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  