-- Buyout Firms Face ‘Urgency’ to Exit Deals, PitchBook Says
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-02-23T21:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/p-e-faces-urgency-to-increase-exits-pitchbook.html
U.S. private equity firms are
holding companies longer than they have in more than a decade,
hurting fund returns and setting the stage for exit activity to
increase this year, according to a new report.  For companies buyout firms sold or took public in 2011, the
median holding period was 4.81 years, or 25 percent higher than
before the 2008 financial crisis, according to a report this
month by researcher  PitchBook Data Inc . Private equity firms
have made more than 12,500 investments since 2002 yet have
realized fewer than 3,500, the company said.  “When these firms had built their original models in, say,
2005, they hadn’t factored in the size of the crisis that was to
hit three years later,” Adley Bowden, director of research at
Seattle-based PitchBook, said in a telephone interview. “They
now have this huge inventory of mature companies that are
pushing their normal exit timetable.”  Big private equity firms may be forced to search for exits
this year as they seek to raise new funds. Fund returns, a
measure that firms use to market themselves to potential
investors, are negatively affected as companies mature in a
fund’s portfolio past about five years, according to the report.
Funds that began investing in 2005 have returned a median of 30
percent of their limited partners’ capital, PitchBook said.  “The longer you hold these investments, in order to
maintain the return that you had promised either you have to
sell the investments for more or you have to take less of a
return,” Bowden said. “Right now that’s fueling a sense of
urgency around exiting some of these companies.”  Raising Money  Buyout funds globally are trying to raise about $740
billion, London-based researcher Preqin Ltd. said last month.
 KKR & Co. (KKR)  is seeking $10 billion for its next private equity
fund, two people with knowledge of the plans said in November,
and Washington-based  Carlyle Group (CG)  LP is set to begin marketing
funds, according to a person familiar with its plans.  As a result of declining exits, private equity firms may
close funds before reaching their capital targets or may abandon
fundraising until market conditions improve, Preqin said in a
report in December.  Exit activity in  Asia  has proved more resilient, with sales
steadily increasing since 2009, according to  Preqin . Globally
exits reached a five-year low in the fourth quarter of 2008 as
the financial crisis sapped available capital.  Bowden said he’s optimistic that buyout firms will sell
more of their investments this year. Companies looking to
acquire others strategically have built up cash, and U.S. buyout
firms seeking to purchase private equity-backed companies from
rivals have about $425 billion at the ready, he said.  Capital Gains Tax  “You hear every day how these companies have record
amounts of cash on their balance sheets,” Bowden said. “If
they can’t grow organically, they’re going to need to be
acquisitively growing.”  With the long-term  capital gains  tax rate set to increase
in 2013, private equity firms may be motivated to exit
investments before year-end to keep a higher portion of the
profit, PitchBook said. If the U.S. decides to tax the share of
investment profits that buyout firms receive -- known as carried
interest -- at the higher rate for ordinary income instead of as
capital gains, the firms may have an additional incentive,
Bowden said.  “These firms want to make sure that they do things as tax
efficiently as possible,” he said. “If a higher tax on carry
takes immediate effect and you don’t have protection built in,
obviously you’re going to want to sell in December, not
January.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  