-- Pacific Rubiales Rises to Nine-Month High as Reserves Grow: Bogota Mover
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-02-23T20:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/pacific-rubiales-rises-to-six-month-high-as-reserves-grow-bogota-mover.html
Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE) , the
Toronto-based oil producer that operates fields in  Colombia ,
surged to a nine-month high after saying its crude and natural-
gas reserves jumped 52 percent last year.  Rubiales shares rose 6.7 percent to 51,940 pesos, the
highest price on a closing basis since May 2, at 2:38 p.m.
Bogota time.  The company’s 2011 year-end proved and probable reserves
grew 52 percent from the year before, driven by an 83 percent
exploration success rate as the company diversifies its reserve
base, President Jose Francisco Arata said in a statement on the
company website.  “These results are positive in that they go beyond just
growing reserves and strengthening future sustainability,”
Samuel David Garcia, a Bogota-based analyst at Valores
Bancolombia, said in an e-mailed statement. “The company has
reduced its dependence on the Rubiales field.”  The Rubiales field, which in 2008 accounted for 60 percent
of the company’s reserves, now accounts for about 30 percent of
reserves as the company boosts reserves in its Quifa, Sabanero
and other fields, according to the statement.  The company has shifted the bulk of its reserves from
Rubiales, a field where the company has a contract that expires
in 2016, to Quifa, said Nicolas Bernal, a Bogota-based analyst
at Ultrabursatiles SA.  “Almost 90 percent of the new reserves in this report are
in Quifa, where there is no contract that may soon expire,”
said Bernal.  The company said Rubiales is a “mature field that will see
plateau production in the next several years before natural
declines start in 2015.”  Rubiales was raised to “outperform” from “sector
perform” by  RBC Capital Markets  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  