-- Paul Is Only GOP Contender Whose Policies Would Pare Debt, Analysis Finds
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-02-23T19:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/paul-s-plan-would-lower-debt-while-rivals-wouldn-t-report-says.html
The tax and spending plans of the
leading Republican presidential candidates would add to the  U.S.
debt , according to a nonpartisan report.  The plans of  Newt Gingrich ,  Rick Santorum  and  Mitt Romney 
would each add trillions of dollars to the  debt  over the next
decade, according to an analysis released today by the Committee
for a Responsible Federal Budget in Washington. The Republican
contenders criticize President  Barack Obama  for spending
programs that contributed to a trillion-dollar  budget deficit .  Ron Paul  is the only major candidate whose policies would
reduce U.S. debt, according to the report.  The primary reason is tax cuts. Each candidate, except for
Paul, has proposed breaks that would drain far more revenue from
the treasury than the candidates propose to save through
spending cuts, the report said.  It is the first independent analysis of what the
candidates’ campaign promises would mean for the government’s
$15.4 trillion debt.  The Numbers  Former House Speaker Gingrich would add the most, with tax-
and-spending policies that would increase the debt by $7
trillion by 2021, the report said. The proposals of Santorum, a
former U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania , would add $4.5 trillion,
the analysis said. Both would push the debt to more than 100
percent of the U.S. gross domestic product.  Former Massachusetts Governor Romney’s plan would add $2.6
trillion, the group said, though it noted the estimate is less
certain because many of the details of his tax proposals are
vague.  Only Representative Paul’s plan would more than cover the
cost of his tax cuts with spending reductions, the group said.
Paul has proposed $5.2 trillion in tax cuts over the next
decade, and $7.5 trillion in reduced spending, which would cut
the debt by 2012 by more than $2 trillion.  Obama Budget  “As we enter the thick of the campaign season, no one can
ignore the debt issues,” said Maya MacGuineas, head of the
group. “This report is designed to inform the public on the
fiscal policies put forward by each of the Republican candidates
and stimulate debate on this crucial topic.”  The group didn’t analyze Obama’s budget proposal released
earlier this month though it said it plans to release a separate
report on the effects of his tax and spending policies.  Gingrich would reduce the government’s income the most with
his proposal to create a new 15 percent flat tax. That would
cost the treasury about $3.4 trillion, according to the
analysis.  His calls to cut the top corporate income tax rate to 12.5
percent from 35 percent, eliminate capital-gains taxes and end
the estate tax would cost trillions more. His biggest spending
cut, a proposal to reduce funding for more than 100 programs
benefiting the poor, would save an estimated $2.4 trillion.  Paul Plan  By contrast, Paul’s tax-and-spending plans would improve
the budget outlook by marrying tax cuts with even larger
spending reductions. He would cut defense spending, including
immediately ending military operations in  Afghanistan . He also
proposed eliminating five cabinet agencies and rolling back
spending on  Medicaid (USBOMDCA) ,  food stamps  and other programs for the
poor to 2006 levels.  The impact of Romney’s proposals is uncertain, the group
said, because his campaign has not spelled out how it would
finance his call for a 20 percent reduction in individual income
taxes.  His campaign has said the plan would not add to the deficit
because it would replace the lost revenue by clamping down on
individual tax preferences.  ‘Substantial’ Changes  It hasn’t identified which breaks would have to go though,
the report said, and his plan could require “substantial”
changes in popular breaks such as one allowing homeowners to
write off the interest on their mortgages. Absent those
offsetting savings, the report said, the plan would add $2.6
trillion to the debt.  Santorum’s plan would add to the deficit by reducing the
number of individual income tax brackets to two from six, with
rates set at 28 percent and 10 percent. He would also eliminate
the corporate income tax for manufacturers while cutting it to
17.5 percent for other businesses. Those proposals would
together divert more than $5 trillion in revenue from the
treasury, according to the report.  Santorum would make up some of that, about $500 billion, by
adopting a  Medicare (FFSOMED)  voucher program similar to one proposed by
House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider in Washington at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  