-- PG&E CEO Expects California Reactor Licenses Will Be Extended
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-02-23T21:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/pg-e-ceo-expects-california-reactor-licenses-will-be-extended.html
PG&E (PCG)  Corp. expects U.S. regulators
will grant 20-year license extensions for its  California  nuclear
reactors, after the Fukushima disaster prompted delays and
additional seismic test costs.  “I think it will get relicensed,” PG&E Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Anthony Earley said in an interview today at
the  San Francisco  bureau of Bloomberg News. Diablo Canyon
“needs to get relicensed for the state of California. It’s a
great asset.”  PG&E, based in San Francisco, submitted an application to
the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission in 2009 seeking renewal
for the two units, whose current licenses expire in 2024 and
2025. The plant, located on the California coast about 160 miles
(257 kilometers) northwest of  Los Angeles , is near two
earthquake fault lines.  Last March, an earthquake and resulting tsunami disabled
reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi site in  Japan , causing the
worst nuclear accident since a 1986 meltdown at Chernobyl. PG&E
last year requested a delay for its application until new
seismic studies of earthquake risks are completed.  The cost to do those studies has tripled from original
estimates to more than $60 million because of the expense of
studying offshore earthquake risks, Earley said. The  U.S.
Geological Survey  in 2008 discovered a fault line in the waters
off the coast of the plant.  PG&E is conducting onshore seismic surveys and is trying to
get state environmental approvals for the offshore analysis,
Earley said. The company expects California regulators to allow
it to recover those costs through customer bills, he said.  Opposition Groups  Several groups, including the  Sierra Club  and San Luis
Obispo Mothers for Peace, have sought to block or delay
relicensing of the reactors because of the plant’s location near
the Hosgri and Shoreline faults.  “In terms of safety and security it is not in the public
interest to add an additional 20 years to the operating life of
the two reactors at Diablo Canyon,” according to the website of
 Mothers for Peace , a nonprofit group. “The only advantage would
be to the corporate profits of PG&E.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 