-- Portman Taps Investors From Hong Kong Base to Fund Asia-Pacific Projects
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-02-23T01:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/portman-taps-investors-from-hong-kong-base-to-fund-asia-pacific-projects.html
Portman Holdings Ltd. , an Atlanta-
based developer expanding in the Asia-Pacific region, plans to
use its recently set up  Hong Kong  operation to tap international
investors to fund property projects.  The company wants to raise funds from institutional and
private investors for its projects estimated to cost $100
million to $1 billion each, Stanley Chin, managing director for
Greater China for the company, said in an interview in Hong Kong
yesterday. Portman doesn’t have a specific target for the amount
it’s seeking to raise, he said.  Portman is betting housing demand fueled by an expanding
middle class in China and India, the world’s two-fastest growing
major economies, will underpin their property markets. Hong Kong
billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s  Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd. (1)  and
CapitaLand Ltd.,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest developer, said in
November they are planning more investments in  China .  “Since 2008, it’s generally been challenging to raise
funds because many investors were hurt by the global credit
crisis,” said Chin, hired by Portman in December from  Henderson
Global Investors . “Things have eased slightly over the last 18
months. There’s a lot of liquidity in the system.”  The company and a team of international investors built the
Shanghai Centre -- a three-tower development with serviced
apartments, offices, a shopping mall, and a Ritz-Carlton hotel,
in the city’s Jing An district, in 1990, its first project in
China. It has since developed properties in Singapore and India.  Hong Kong Hub  Portman, founded almost 60 years ago by architect John Portman, in December opened its Hong Kong office, almost two
decades after moving its Greater China base to  Shanghai  from the
city. The company is not actively looking at investing in the
Hong Kong property market as “there are too many big players in
the city already,” said Chin.  “Hong Kong is a very convenient hub to cover southern
China from a project perspective, said Chin. “We are also using
it as a hub to liaise with our investors.”  Portman is looking for projects in Chinese cities including
Shanghai, Beijing, Fujian and Guangzhou, even after the
country’s government said earlier this year it plans to keep
home purchase restrictions in 2012 to prevent the formation of
an asset bubble.  The company, which has invested $6 billion in real estate
projects globally, is completing two residential projects with
nearly 2 million square feet in  India  to tap the country’s
growing middle class, according to Rahul Anand, managing
director for Portman in Mumbai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  