-- Harvard After Lin Shoots for Ivy Title as Amaker Builds Basketball Program
-- B y   P a u l   W a c h t e r
-- 2012-02-23T22:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/post-lin-harvard-competes-for-title-under-amaker-basketball-plan.html
Before a recent Monday practice in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , reporters from national news outlets
surrounded Harvard University basketball coach Tommy Amaker.  They were not there to gain insights into the weekend’s
games against Princeton and the  University of Pennsylvania , but
to ask questions about Jeremy Lin, an economics major and point
guard for the Crimson from 2006 to 2010. Lin plays for the  New
York Knicks  now, becoming a starter and leading the team to an
8-2 record after scoring 25 points as a substitute in a Feb. 4
win against  New Jersey .  “It’s pretty neat to see how he’s become a global
figure,” Amaker says, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
Feb. 27 issue.  A former point guard at  Duke University  from 1983 to 1987,
Amaker has enjoyed his own run of success. While there is no
media phenomenon bearing his name, he has led the Crimson to its
greatest height in the program’s 101-year existence. This year
the team cracked the Top 25 in a national poll, which never
happened when Lin was playing. The Crimson stand atop the Ivy
League and are poised to win it -- another first -- and could
make their first appearance in the National Collegiate Athletic
Association tournament since 1945.  Amaker, 46, took over the team in 2007 after being coach at
the  University of Michigan  and an assistant for his alma mater.  It’s clear that Amaker harbors ambitions for Harvard that
go beyond the  Ivy League . He intends to compete with top
programs such as Duke and  Syracuse University  -- schools that,
unlike Harvard and the other seven Ivy League members -- offer
athletic scholarships.  “We go against places that offer full rides,” says
Amaker. “It’s always going to be a factor. It’s money.”  Harvard in NBA  The last Harvard man to play in the NBA was  Ed Smith , in
1954. Like Lin, he played for the Knicks. He averaged 2.5 points
and lasted 11 games.  In 2007, Harvard fired coach Frank Sullivan, who in 16
seasons compiled a 178-245 record. Athletic Director Bob Scalise
said consistently contending for the Ivy League championship was
the university’s goal. He asked Harvard’s players to help vet
prospective coaches.  “It became clear that the athletic department was trying
to jump-start this program to a level that hadn’t been seen
before,” says Andrew Pusar, who played two seasons for Sullivan
and two under his successor.  Amaker was the players’ top choice, and the changes were
immediate. He fought for a tougher schedule, and he changed the
psychology. “As basketball players, we had felt like second-
class citizens compared to Penn and Princeton,” Pusar said.
“Amaker’s approach was to say, ‘You’re part of something
special here at Harvard, and there’s no reason the basketball
team shouldn’t be part of it.’ ”  Losing Start  In Amaker’s first season, Harvard was 8-22, and during his
second, 14-14, with Lin on the team. “When I came, even on our
own campus, we weren’t important at all,” says Oliver McNally,
a senior guard who was part of Amaker’s first recruiting class.  Now, “there’s a buzz on campus,” says Charles Ogletree, a
law professor and season-ticket holder. “It’s not only here,
but Harvard is selling out games on the road.”  A newfound confidence does not alone make a great
basketball team. “Recruiting is the life’s blood of everything
we do,” says Temple University coach Fran Dunphy, who won 10
Ivy titles during his 1989 to 2006 tenure at Penn. “We like to
flatter ourselves, and I think Tommy is doing a great job, but
really we’re only as good as the athletes we get.”  Recruiting Struggles  Ivy League schools, with higher academic standards, may
have a difficult time getting quality athletes. “Harvard’s
elite intelligence brand is far more valuable than a ranked
basketball team or a Nike endorsement,” said Jason Brown, class
of 2004 and a former Harvard pitcher.  Amaker, though, doesn’t believe winning games is
incompatible with that brand. Harvard basketball still has a
long way to go before it becomes a national force. Recent losses
to Fordham and Princeton universities revealed weaknesses. But
if Harvard doesn’t win the Ivy this year, it likely will soon as
Amaker continues to recruit top high school players. Lin’s
success should provide another boost. By charting an improbable
path from Harvard to NBA All-Star weekend, he’s become a prime
example of the athletic potential of Ivy League sports.  “This kid has come from our program, from Harvard,” says
Amaker. “He has made it to the pinnacle of the world of
basketball. We want to present to other kids that you don’t have
to sacrifice anything by choosing Harvard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Wachter in New York at 
 paul_wachter@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Julian Sancton at 
 jsancton@bloomberg.net  