-- Quinn Budget Greeted Without Applause as Pension Liabilities Hurt Illinois
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-02-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/quinn-s-budget-greeted-without-applause-as-pension-costs-devour-revenue.html
No one interrupted  Illinois (STOIL1)  Governor
 Pat Quinn ’s budget presentation with applause yesterday. There’s
nothing to cheer about in the financial condition of the fifth-
largest U.S. state.  Its pension and Medicaid liabilities plus $9 billion in
unpaid bills have a ravenous quality. They represent roughly
half the state’s proposed $33.8 billion general fund budget, and
are gobbling dollars that might otherwise pay for education and
hospitals.  “Illinois is a classic case of immediate gratification, of
deferring hard decisions for a later day,” said  Richard Ciccarone , managing director at McDonnell Investment Management
LLC in  Oak Brook . “It wanted the good life now, with lower
taxes and good pensions and didn’t want to pay for it now.”  U.S. state and local-government tax revenue rose 4.1
percent in the third quarter, and while states such as  New
Jersey , Florida and  Kansas  are considering tax cuts, Illinois is
paying for its financial negligence. Despite raising income and
corporate taxes last year, the state has the nation’s lowest
general-obligation bond rating, according to Moody’s Investors
Service. The Chicago-based Civic Federation warns that if
nothing is done, the unpaid bills will almost match the size of
the 2017 budget.  “Too many governors and members of the General Assembly
have clung to budget fantasies rather than confronting hard
realities,” Quinn said in his budget address yesterday.
“Today, our rendezvous with reality has arrived.”  ‘Hodgepodge of Ideas’  Republicans said Quinn himself hasn’t embraced reality.  The budget is “a hodgepodge of ideas that are not thought
through, and that will do little to address the state’s mountain
of unpaid bills,” Comptroller Judy Baar Topinka said in a
statement yesterday.  Quinn, a Democrat, didn’t detail his proposal for cutting
$2.7 billion from next year’s Medicaid budget -- a shortfall
created partly by the Legislature’s deciding not to pay a $1.9
billion obligation from last year -- nor did he detail how to
ease pension costs including a $85 billion unfunded liability.  Although Moody’s lowered  Illinois ’s rating to A2 from A1 on
Jan. 6, the state was able to sell $800 million of general-
obligation bonds just five days later, including $525 million of
tax-exempt debt.  They’ll Pay Up  Granted, the state’s borrowing costs tripled from three
years before. Debt maturing in 10 years was priced to yield 3.1
percent, 110 basis points more than the 2 percent of benchmark
10-year debt. That compares with a spread of 37 basis points
when the state sold a 10-year bond on Sept. 16, 2009.  “It’s amazing how the market has been relatively benign in
responding” to the state’s financial problems, said Ciccarone,
whose firm manages about $8 billion in municipal bonds. “Many
investors in the marketplace feel that they’ll come up with the
money, sooner or later.”  That confidence may change, said Chris Mier, managing
director of the analytical services group at Loop Capital
Markets in  Chicago . Last year’s tax increases encouraged
investors because they suggested the state was serious about
resolving its debt issues. Yet they weren’t coupled with large
spending cuts, Mier said.  “People are going to take a good, hard look at Illinois
issues from now on,” Mier said. “This situation is going to
require diligence from them over a long period of time.”  At The Crossroads  The Federal Reserve policy of maintaining low  interest
rates  reduce borrowing costs, Ciccarone said.  “When interest rates go back up, the state’s going to
suffer,” he said.  The biggest financial threat to Illinois is pension
obligations. Payments in next year’s budget amount to $5.2
billion, or 15 percent of appropriations, compared with 6
percent in the 2008 fiscal year, according to the governor’s
Office of Management and Budget.  Although lawmakers have debated cutting pensions, critics
have argued that the Illinois Constitution protects benefits
from being reduced.  Battling the issue out in court will cost time and increase
liabilities, said  James Spiotto , a municipal bankruptcy lawyer
at Chapman and Cutler LLP in Chicago.  “I look at this as a real crossroads,” Spiotto said.
“They have to find something that is affordable and
sustainable, because if you can’t pay it, you can’t pay it.”  The key, Ciccarone said, isn’t simply the coming fiscal
year’s budget. “If they make the cuts, it’s a step in the right
direction. But to really believe in the credit, they’ve got to
maintain this diet for a long period of time,” he said.  “They’ve got to mean it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Springfield at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  