-- Raiffeisen Beats Capital Estimates, Closes In on EBA Need
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-02-23T16:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/raiffeisen-2011-net-declines-on-writedown-of-ukrainian-unit.html
Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) 
lifted capital ratios by more than analysts expected in the
final quarter of last year, raising hopes it will be able to
fill a gap determined by European regulators.  Raiffeisen, eastern  Europe ’s third-biggest bank, had core
Tier 1 capital of 9.3 percent at the end of 2011, up from 7.9
percent at the end of September, it said in a statement
yesterday. The ratio was boosted by net income that beat
estimates, and by measures Raiffeisen took specifically to
satisfy requirements by the European Banking Authority.  “The good news isn’t the earnings statement, it’s the
capital,” said Daniele Brupbacher, an analyst at UBS AG. “The
EBA-related measures had a more-positive-than-expected impact.”
Brupbacher, who downgraded Raiffeisen to “sell” last week,
lifted his target price by 9 percent today “to reflect a lower
dilution risk.”  Raiffeisen was little changed in Vienna trading, where it
was down 0.1 percent at 25.295 euros at the 5.30 p.m. close. It
outperformed most of the 43 members of the  Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index , which was 0.7 percent lower.
Raiffeisen has gained 26 percent this year.  ‘Hibernation’ Possible  The lender, which operates in  Austria  and in 15 former
communist countries, is seeking to beef up capital on EBA’s
orders and as Hungarian losses depleted reserves. About a third
of its reserves consist of state aid and capital forms that will
be phased out. Raiffeisen discussed a possible rights offering
and may seek as much as 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion), people
with knowledge of the talks said this month. The lender hasn’t
yet decided whether to proceed with the share sale, the people
said.  “We think equity investors will continue to focus on the
core tier 1 ratio excluding participation capital,” Brupbacher
added, referring to the non-voting capital variety in which the
state provided aid and which was also sold to investors. While
Raiffeisen will try to sell shares if markets improve, it can
also afford to “go into ‘hibernation’ mode in order to avoid a
large, highly dilutive capital increase,” he said.  Stripping off the participation capital and applying new
rules by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , the capital
ratio stood at 5.7 percent, Brupbacher said.  Capital Gap  The bank and its parent,  Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich
AG (RZBOPA) , are working to fill a capital gap of 2.1 billion euros
determined by the EBA. They have completed measures equivalent
to raising 1.4 billion euros, the banks said Jan. 25. An
acquisition in  Poland  due to be completed by the end of March
will lower the capital ratio by 40 basis points, Raiffeisen has
said.  In an additional measure to improve its capital ratios,
Raiffeisen also started an offer to buy back 500 million euros
of hybrid bonds today. The buyback could create net income of
about 150 million euros and lift  capital ratios  by 16 basis
points, the bank said.  Net income declined 11 percent to 968 million euros last
year, Vienna-based Raiffeisen said in a statement yesterday,
more than a month ahead of when it planned to announce results.
That beat the  average estimate  of 822.3 million euros by 14
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The company still plans to
report detailed full-year results on March 29.  Ukraine Loss  The bank took a 183 million-euro writedown on Bank Aval,
the Ukrainian lender it acquired in 2005 for $1 billion, after
accounting for the country’s deteriorating economic outlook. It
had flagged the possibility of that writedown when it reported
third-quarter results Nov. 24.  The Ukraine loss was offset by 206 million euros of
valuation gains on Raiffeisen’s own debt, mostly booked in the
fourth quarter when bonds of European banks plummeted. Lenders
can choose to record price changes of their own bonds using an
accounting rule known as fair value option. Falling bond values
boost profits while climbing values diminish earnings.  Raiffeisen booked an additional 231 million euros in
special gains last year, most of it in the fourth quarter, on
derivatives. Provision for loan losses declined 10 percent even
as the amount set aside to cover souring debt climbed in
 Hungary , it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  