-- Rajoy Says Spain to Stick to Deficit Goal, Discuss With EU
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-02-23T15:51:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/rajoy-says-spain-to-stick-to-deficit-goal-discuss-with-eu-1-.html
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said
 Spain  will stick to its deficit goal set by the European Union,
though it will discuss the target with the European Commission
to present a “realistic” 2012 budget next month.  “We’ll talk to the commission, but in any case Spain will
respect its public-deficit targets,” Rajoy told reporters in
 Rome  after talks with Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  today.  Spain will unveil a “reasonable” spending plan on March
30 based on “prudent” forecasts, he said. “I guarantee the
Spanish government will be realistic,” Rajoy said. “We aren’t
going to prepare a budget not to respect it.”  Spain’s deficit-reduction efforts are being hobbled by a
 slump  in growth since the last quarter of 2011. The nation
missed its 2011  budget-shortfall  target and the  International
Monetary Fund  expects it to fail again this year, forecasting
that the region’s fourth-largest economy will enter its second
recession since 2010.  Rajoy’s People’s Party government, in power since December,
expects last year’s shortfall to amount to about 8 percent of
gross domestic product, compared with the EU’s 6 percent target.
In 2012, the government aims for a budget gap of 4.4 percent.  Cutbacks  Rajoy has already raised taxes and cut spending to reduce
the deficit by about 15 billion euros ($20 billion). Unchanged
targets for 2012 would force him to find another 25 billion
euros, according to an estimate by Moody’s Investors Service.  Rajoy spoke after EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters in Brussels that the
commission will decide whether Spain needs more budget cuts once
the Spanish government provides it with a “full picture of the
fiscal slippage in 2011 and the reasons” for it.  Rehn said the commission will examine whether last year’s
overrun was due to one-time or permanent factors and if the
blame lies with the central government or the regions.  The commission today cut its growth estimate for Spain this
year, forecasting the economy will contract 1 percent instead of
the 0.7 percent growth it predicted in November. Additional
fiscal measures may worsen the outlook, the commission said.  “This situation obliges us to be realistic,” Rajoy said.
The 2012 budget will be based on a less optimistic growth
forecast than the EU’s, Rajoy said. The figure, to be published
in the first half of March, will be in line with estimates by
the Bank of Spain and the IMF, which predict contractions of 1.5
percent and 1.7 percent respectively.  “The spending limits will be prudent, based on a prudent
forecast of tax receipts,” Rajoy said. “We aren’t going to say
we’ll collect taxes that we don’t believe we’ll collect.”  Town halls and Spain’s 17 semi-autonomous regions will be
requested to take measures to “correct” their own budgets, he
said. “Our aim continues to be to reduce the public deficit,”
Rajoy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net  