-- Ranbaxy Reports $606 Million Loss After U.S. Settlement
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2012-02-24T04:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/ranbaxy-reports-606-million-loss-after-u-s-settlement.html
Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) ,  India ’s
largest drugmaker, reported its biggest ever quarterly loss
after the company took a $500 million charge to settle a legal
dispute with U.S. authorities in December.  The  loss  widened to 29.8 billion rupees ($608 million) in
the fourth quarter, from 974.8 million rupees a year earlier,
Ranbaxy said. Sales rose 79 percent to 37.4 billion rupees,
helped partly by exclusive sales in the U.S. of generic Lipitor,
which the Indian company began selling in November.  The December settlement relates to accusations by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration and the  Department of Justice  of
manufacturing problems and fraudulent testing. The settlement
and provision bring “greater predictability to our business in
the U.S., one of our largest markets,” Chief Executive Officer
Arun Sawhney said yesterday.  U.S. sales more than tripled to 19.7 billion rupees in the
fourth quarter, the company said. Sales were largely boosted by
the introduction of the generic Lipitor in partnership with  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  Under the terms of the deal,
Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva would get a share of the profits
from the first six months of sales.  “The Lipitor numbers look pretty good, but the payment to
Teva is very high,” Nitin Agarwal, a Mumbai-based analyst at
IDFC Securities Ltd., said in a telephone interview.  Teva Payment  Ranbaxy didn’t disclose the amount paid to Teva citing
agreement terms. Still, other operating expenses, which include
profit-sharing related contractual payments, more than doubled
to 14.4 billion rupees from a year earlier, it said.  Ranbaxy  fell  0.9 percent to 436.25 rupees as of 9:43 a.m.
in  Mumbai , while the benchmark Sensitive Index slid 0.1 percent.  The drugmaker expects to achieve $2.2 billion in revenue
this year, without including any generic drug sales where it has
exclusivity rights, it said in the statement.  “The guidance from the company is quite strong,” said
Priti Arora, an analyst at Kotak Institutional Equities in
Mumbai. “I think the figure is pretty ambitious and may be
difficult to achieve,”  she said.  The company is satisfied with the progress it’s making in
resolving long-standing issues with the U.S. regulators, Sawhney
said in the statement. The FDA imposed a temporary ban on more
than 30 generic drugs made at the Indian drugmaker’s Paonta
Sahib and Dewas plants in September 2008, three months after
Tokyo-based  Daiichi Sankyo Co. (4568)  agreed to buy a controlling stake.  Daiichi Sankyo fell 0.6 percent to 1,458 yen as of 1:17 p.m.
in Tokyo trading.  A slump in the rupee increased Ranbaxy’s cost of hedging, a
tool companies use to protect against price swings. The rupee
dipped 7.7 percent against the dollar in the three months ended
Dec. 30, and was the worst performer among major Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Ranbaxy’s foreign-exchange
losses related to derivatives totaled 8.4 billion rupees during
the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lena Lee at 
 llee42@bloomberg.net  