-- Rand Gains for Second Day as Shrinking Budget Gap Eases Downgrade Concern
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-02-23T13:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/rand-gains-for-second-day-as-shrinking-budget-gap-eases-downgrade-concern.html
The rand gained for a second day
against the dollar after Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said a
move to rein in the  budget deficit  ahead of schedule will
prevent a credit-rating downgrade for Africa’s biggest economy.  South Africa’s currency appreciated 0.5 percent to 7.6982
as of 3 p.m. in Johannesburg. It climbed 0.2 percent against the
euro to 10.2328. Bonds declined on concern rising oil prices
will spur inflation.  Moody’s Investors Service and  Fitch Ratings  will probably
remove their negative rating outlooks on South African debt,
Gordhan said in an interview in  Cape Town  yesterday. The fiscal
deficit is set to reach 4.6 percent of gross domestic product in
the year through March 2013, less than an October forecast of
5.2 percent, he said in a budget speech.  “The budget was seen as fairly bullish,” Danny Pienaar, a
currency trader at Tradition Financial Services in Johannesburg,
said by phone. “I think the  ratings agencies  will be quite
happy.”  Fitch lowered the outlook on South Africa’s BBB+ rating,
the third-lowest investment-grade assessment, to negative from
stable last month as government debt and unemployment increased.
Moody’s cut its outlook in November, citing “heightened
political risk.”  “We are doing enough as a country for them to be able to”
to raise the outlook to stable, Gordhan said.  Fitch Ratings declined to comment, the company’s London-
based spokesperson,  Peter Fitzpatrick , said in an e-mailed
response to questions. Moody’s sovereign credit analyst Kristin
Lindow didn’t answer her phone when called after hours at her
New York office and didn’t immediately respond to a message.  Business Confidence  The rand stayed stronger after German business confidence
climbed more than forecast, spurring gains in commodity prices
and stocks as investors sought out riskier assets. An  index  of
commodity prices rose to an eight-month high.  “There is a bit of a risk-on feeling,” Pienaar said.
“The euro is doing quite well, and that has also brought a bit
of confidence to the rand.”  The rand often moves in tandem with the euro, which buys 22
percent of  South Africa ’s exports, according to government data.
The correlation between moves in the two currencies over the
past year is 0.677, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
value of 1 would mean they moved in lock step.  Oil Prices  Yields on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 climbed
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.87 percent as
investors added to bets the central bank will raise interest
rates this year to counter higher oil prices. Brent crude oil
rose to its highest price in nine months in  London  today.  “The focus internationally has switched from Greece to
developments in the oil market and economic data,”  John Cairns 
and Josina Solomons, analysts at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “Oil is a worry.”  South Africa’s consumer inflation rate rose to 6.3 percent
in January, remaining outside the central bank’s target range
for a third month and adding to pressure on Governor  Gill Marcus 
to raise  interest rates .  Forward-rate agreements starting in November, after the
Monetary Policy Committee’s final meeting for this year, have
gained 12 basis points in the past two days to 5.93 percent, the
most since August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  