-- RBA’s Stevens Says Monetary Policy at Right Setting, Sees Growth at Trend
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-24T01:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/rba-s-stevens-says-monetary-policy-at-right-setting-sees-growth-at-trend.html
Australia’s benchmark interest rate
is “about right for the moment” as economic growth is close to
trend as concerns ease that  Europe ’s debt crisis will disrupt
global output, Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  said.  “We do not, at this point, see the signs of the rapid
collapse in global demand we saw three years ago,” Stevens said
today in prepared testimony in Sydney to the  House of
Representatives  Standing Committee on Economics.  Stevens and his board unexpectedly kept the nation’s
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 4.25 percent on Feb. 7
after making a quarter percentage-point cut Nov. 1 and another
on Dec. 6. Three of 27 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
predicted he’d pause this month, while the other 24 forecast a
reduction to 4 percent.  Australia has the highest benchmark borrowing costs among
major developed nations. Policy rates in  Japan  and the U.S. are
near zero, the  European Central Bank  has its benchmark at 1
percent, and New Zealand’s is a record-low 2.5 percent.  “The Governor’s opening statement suggests that the RBA
has a ‘goldilocks’ outlook for the Australian economy over the
next few years,” said James McIntyre, senior economist for
global markets research at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  in
Sydney. “Growth and inflation not too hot, but not too cold
either.”  European finance ministers approved a 130 billion-euro
($174 billion) bailout package for  Greece  this week by tapping
into European Central Bank profits and convincing investors to
provide more debt relief to the Mediterranean country. The deal
includes a 53.5 percent writedown for investors in Greek debt.  Currency Gains  Australia’s relatively high benchmark rate and a mining-
investment pipeline have helped elevate its currency, making the
so-called Aussie the second-biggest gainer in the past 12 months
among Group of 10 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The currency
has strengthened 6.6 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the past
year to $1.0749 as of 12:22 p.m. in Sydney, after touching
$1.1081 in July, the highest since it was freely floated in
1983.  “If we want to describe the stance of monetary as broadly
neutral, that’s probably a reasonable description, and the
fiscal side I think is, as far as I know, unfolding more or less
as it was planned,” Stevens said in response to questions.  Multi-Speed Economy  The currency’s gains have hurt earnings for manufacturers,
tourism and retailers, helping create what the RBA has referred
to as a multi-speed economy with those industries lagging behind
the performance of companies linked to the mining boom.  Regarding the currency, “the most recent bout of strength
is happening at a time when the terms of trade have actually
peaked and started to come down,” Stevens said in response to
questions after the testimony. “That is a bit odd, but we’ll
see what happens. We haven’t done any intervention to try to
hold the Australian dollar down. I’m not saying we never would,
we have been known to intervene on both sides, but we certainly
don’t foreshadow it.”  The  unemployment rate  may rise to 5.5 percent in the coming
year, after it fell last month to 5.1 percent, RBA  Deputy
Governor  Philip Lowe  said in a response to questions.  “The RBA continues to exude a relaxed nature, which we
think precludes near-term easing, barring renewed sharp
deterioration offshore,” said  Michael Turner , an economist in
Sydney for Royal Bank of  Canada . The RBA will lower rates to
3.75 percent by year-end as “we continue to expect a higher
unemployment rate through the year, which should provide further
easing of wage pressures,” Turner wrote in a note to clients.  Australia experienced the weakest jobs market in 20 years
during 2011, according to government data.  Mortgage Rates  The country’s four biggest lenders --  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia ,  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) 
and  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  -- responded to
this month’s interest-rate pause by raising some of their
mortgage rates, citing higher funding costs.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  condemned the banks, urging customers
to shop around for better rates.  Stevens said the banks’ decisions were understandable
considering increases in wholesale funding costs, adding that
the increases in mortgage rates wouldn’t weaken the RBA’s policy
tools.  “The shifting relationship between the cash rate and other
rates in the economy is a factor the Board takes into
consideration in setting the cash rate,” Stevens said. “Recent
developments do not materially affect the capacity of  monetary
policy  to achieve its goals.”  Lowered Forecasts  The central bank earlier this month lowered its forecast
for domestic growth and inflation this year.  The RBA sees average growth of 3.5 percent in 2012, down
from its Nov. 4 estimate of 4 percent. Consumer prices will rise
3 percent in the year through to the fourth quarter, less than a
previous prediction of 3.25 percent, it said.  “Our most recent assessment was that, with growth near
trend, inflation consistent with the target,  interest rates 
about average and an outlook suggesting more of the same, the
setting of policy was about right for the moment,” Stevens said
in his testimony.  Bolstering the case for faster growth was a Feb. 16 report
that showed  Australia  added the most workers in 14 months in
January and the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly declined.  Payrolls rose by 46,300 last month, the most since November
2010, after a revised drop in December of 35,600, the statistics
bureau said. That was more than four times the median estimate
for an increase of 10,000 in a Bloomberg News survey of 25
economists. The jobless rate fell to 5.1 percent from 5.2
percent.  Improved Outlook  Australia’s economy allows for “a pretty good policy
setting from the central bank’s perspective and the global
outlook has improved a fair bit just over the last month or
two,” said Shane Lee, a senior interest-rate strategist in
Sydney at ANZ Bank. “The way things are traveling at the
moment, there is a risk that rates are on hold for the bigger
part of this year.”  ANZ forecasts the central bank will cut rates in May and
hold them for the rest of the year, Lee said.  The RBA will trim borrowing costs by 0.44 percentage point
in the coming 12 months, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG
index based on swaps trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  