-- RBS Loss Wider Than Estimated on Greece, Compensation
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-02-23T17:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/rbs-posts-greater-than-estimated-3-1-billion-loss-for-the-full-year.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest state-owned lender, reported a wider-than-
estimated loss on impairments in Ireland, writing down Greek
debt and compensating customers for improperly sold insurance.  The net loss for 2011 was 2 billion pounds ($3.1 billion)
compared with 1.1 billion pounds a year earlier, the U.K.’s
second-largest bank by assets said in a statement today. That
was worse than the 1.1 billion-pound median estimate of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  RBS took an impairment of 1.1 billion pounds on holdings of
Greek government securities and said it “exceeded run-off
targets” in its non-core businesses, bringing forward some of
its losses. Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester , 51, who has
said his job is equivalent to defusing the “biggest time bomb
in history,” has shrunk the bank’s assets by more than 700
billion pounds and cut more than 35,000 jobs since he took over
from  Fred Goodwin  in 2008.  “While there is still work to be done to get RBS into a
position where it is generating attractive returns for
shareholders, the glide path to normality is increasingly
clear,” UBS AG analysts John-Paul Crutchley and Alastair Ryan
said in an e-mailed note.  RBS’s loss would have been narrower if it hadn’t taken 850
million pounds in charges relating to compensation for U.K.
customers who were improperly sold personal-loan insurance.  Shares Rise  The loss at RBS’s Irish unit,  Ulster Bank  Ltd., increased
to 1.02 billion pounds in 2011 from 760 million pounds in the
previous year on impaired mortgages. RBS has injected as much as
10 billion pounds into its Irish unit since 2008.  The lender reduced its medium-term target for return on
equity to 12 percent from 15 percent.  “We have three jobs at RBS -- to support our customers, to
defuse our legacy risks and rebuild a successful, profitable
bank,” Hester said in the statement. “In 2011 we showed
results across all three goals, though with much still to do.”  Shares of RBS rose 5.1 percent to 28.72 pence at the close
in London, compared with a 0.7 percent loss by the Bloomberg
Europe Banks Index. After sinking 48 percent last year, the
stock has rebounded 42 percent this year. By contrast,  shares (RBS)  of
Commerzbank AG and Credit Agricole SA, which also reported
earnings hurt by Greek writedowns today, both declined.  ‘Enormous Progress’  “The management team have clearly made enormous progress
and the market recognizes that,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a
banking analyst at Mediobanca SpA with a “neutral” rating on the
stock. “However, RBS is still dogged by some serious issues,
such as Ulster Bank.”  Operating profit at the bank’s consumer unit rose 45
percent to 1.99 billion pounds last year, while operating profit
at the corporate unit slid 3.3 percent, RBS said.  RBS’s results were also affected by rising borrowing costs
as the bank weans itself off low-interest government loans and
takes on costlier funding in wholesale markets. The bank opted
in December to go the  European Central Bank  for an emergency 5
billion euro loan as its own costs of borrowing reached an
unsustainable level, a person familiar with the matter said.  The U.K. rescued RBS at the height of the financial crisis,
injecting 45.5 billion pounds of taxpayer money into the lender,
making it the costliest bailout of any bank.  Banker Pay  RBS’s compensation ratio, a measure of pay against revenue,
rose to 41 percent compared with 34 percent for 2010. The bank’s
bonus pool fell 21 percent to 985 million pounds, and total
salaries fell 1 percent to 5.42 billion pounds.  “We have aligned the longer-term rewards our people
receive with our shareholders’ interests,” RBS Chairman  Philip Hampton  said in a letter to shareholders. “We have led the way
in changing how we pay our people.” Hampton and Hester last
month relinquished their bonuses for 2011 amid a storm on the
issue in the U.K. media.  The investment-banking unit set aside 390 million pounds of
bonus, including cash, shares and deferred awards, a 58 percent
drop from the year earlier, and an average of 22,941 pounds per
worker. Operating profit at the investment bank slid 54 percent
to 1.6 billion in 2011 compared with the previous year.  RBS paid employees at its securities business an average of
about 112,000 pounds each including salary, bonus and pension,
spokeswoman  Linda Harper  said by phone today, down from 152,000
pounds last year.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said last month banks
must show “proper regard” in limiting bonuses. “What needs to
happen is a sense of restraint,” Cameron told reporters in
Brussels after a meeting of European leaders. “They need to do
a better job of demonstrating how pay is related to performance.
What I care about is the taxpayer going to get the money back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  