-- RBS Cuts Investment Banker Pay by 26% After Parliament Seeks Restraint
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-02-23T14:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/rbs-cuts-investment-banker-pay-after-parliament-seeks-restraint.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s largest government-controlled lender, cut pay for its
investment bankers by 26 percent after politicians demanded
moderation in rewards for 2011.  RBS paid its investment bankers an average of about 112,000
pounds ($176,108) each including salary, bonus and pension,
spokeswoman  Linda Harper  said by phone today, a drop of 26
percent from 152,000 pounds last year.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government and the
opposition  Labour Party  have made common cause in demanding pay
restraint from banks bailed out by the taxpayer. As U.K. public-
sector jobs are cut, pay is frozen and the economy teeters on
the brink of a second recession, the finance industry is facing
a backlash.  “The noise around RBS is damaging,” Chief Executive
Officer Stephen Hester said on a conference call with
journalists today when asked about compensation at the bank.
“In the last three years we have overcome the effects of this
noise. We will try to keep doing that but no one should be under
any illusions that you can have your cake and eat it.”  Rival  Barclays Capital , the securities unit of  Barclays
Plc (BARC) , cut the amount it paid to employees by 9 percent in 2011,
paying an average of 203,750 pounds, filings show.  Barclays, Britain’s third-biggest bank, said full-year
profit fell 16 percent as investment-banking revenue shrank.  Bonus Pool Cut  RBS cut staff at the Global Banking & Markets unit by 9
percent to 17,000, it said in a statement today. Its investment
banker bonus pool was cut by 58 percent to 390 million pounds,
including cash, shares and deferred awards, an average of 22,941
pounds a banker.  RBS’s investment bank posted an operating profit of 1.6
billion pounds, down 54 percent from the previous year.  RBS reported a wider-than-estimated loss of 2 billion
pounds compared with 1.1 billion pounds a year earlier.  “One cannot help but feel sorry for RBS and Hester,” said
 John Purcell , founder of London-based recruiter Purcell & Co.
“It’s a long term job to fix the mess he inherited but the
politicians are only interested in the next day’s headlines. The
bonuses are a political football compared to the overall task,”  Cameron said last month banks must limit bonuses. “What
needs to happen is a sense of restraint,” Cameron said in
Brussels. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said RBS’s
loss resulted from “cleaning up the mess” of past failures and
that it was right investment-bank bonuses were cut.  ‘Cleaning Up the Mess’  UKFI, which manages the British government’s bank stakes,
believes that RBS “exercised reasonable judgment in relation to
its approach to total variable remuneration this year,
consistent with the need to protect the interests of
shareholders,” it said in an e-mailed statement.  “The new management team at RBS are cleaning up the mess
after the biggest bank bailout in history, just as the
government is cleaning up the system of bank regulation that
failed so badly.” Osborne said in a statement released by the
Treasury in  London  today. “These results show that they are
doing just that.”  The U.K.’s Unite labor union said its talks with the bank
on worker pay have stalled.  “Some 28,000 RBS workers will receive no pay rise,” it
said in an e-mailed statement. “Unite is appalled that while
RBS can afford to pay large bonuses to City bankers, it refuses
to recognize the contribution of the vast majority of the
staff.”  -- With assistance from Gonzalo Vina and Ambereen Choudhury in
London. Editors: Francis Harris, Jon Menon  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  