-- European Banks Take Greek Hit After Deal
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-02-23T12:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/rbs-reflects-greek-debt-damage-with-credit-agricole-days-after-aid-accord.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  of  Germany  and  France ’s Credit Agricole SA booked
losses on their Greek government debt two days after creditors
agreed to the biggest sovereign restructuring in history.  RBS, Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, posted a
wider-than-expected full-year loss after taking a sovereign-debt
impairment of 1.1 billion pounds ($1.7 billion). Commerzbank,
Germany’s second-biggest lender, booked a 700 million-euro ($1.1
billion) writedown on Greek debt in the fourth quarter. Credit
Agricole, France’s third-largest bank, reported a quarterly loss
after 220 million euros in impairments on Greek debt.  Dexia SA and  Allianz SE (ALV)  also announced Greek writedowns
today. The nation’s private creditors agreed to a debt swap on
Feb. 21, paving the way for a second bailout and averting what
Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer Josef Ackermann said
would have been a “meltdown” worse than the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  “Earnings were hit by Greek writedowns, but at least the
worst is now behind us,” said  Lutz Roehmeyer , who helps oversee
about 11.5 billion euros at Landesbank Berlin Investment in
Germany’s capital. “By aggressively writing down their
holdings, banks want to show that they can cope even if Greece
defaults down the road.”  RBS, Commerzbank and  Credit Agricole (ACA)  have all written down
their Greek debt by at least 74 percent, in line with estimated
losses in the securities’ net present value from the swap.  Debt Swap  The banks’ share performance was mixed as investors gauged
whether the worst of the sovereign-debt crisis, writedowns and
capital-raising to boost financial cushions were over.  RBS shares  jumped 4.8 percent to 28.63 pence as of 12:06
p.m. in  London  on optimism that Chief Executive Officer  Stephen
Hester  has completed the worst of the writedowns and as demand
recovered at its U.S. business.  Commerzbank  slid  4.6 percent to 1.98 euros in  Frankfurt  as
the German lender unveiled a plan to increase core Tier 1
capital by more than 1 billion euros by buying back hybrid
instruments with new shares.  Credit Agricole, which controls Emporiki Bank of  Greece  
SA,  declined  3.7 percent to 4.83 euros. The bank said it can’t 
commit to any target to stem Emporiki’s losses.  Allianz, Dexia  Allianz (ALV) ,  Europe ’s biggest insurer, posted fourth-quarter
earnings that missed estimates as the Munich-based company
booked 1.9 billion euros of non-operating impairments
on Greek sovereign debt and investments, particularly in
financials, for the year.  The insurer wrote down its Greek bonds to market values at
the end of 2011, representing 24.7 percent of their nominal
value. Shares of Allianz were up 0.8 percent to 90.57 euros.  Dexia, the Belgian lender being broken up, reported a
record loss of 11.6 billion euros today. Its writedowns on Greek
sovereign debt totaled 3.61 billion euros last year, including
1.25 billion euros of impairments taken by its former Belgian
bank unit before it was sold on Oct. 20. In addition,  Dexia (DEXB) 
wrote down an additional 1.01 billion euros on derivative
contracts tied to the Greek debt.  Dexia shares fell 5 percent to 29.2 euro cents.  Debt Forgiveness  Europe’s largest lenders and insurers are likely to accede
to the Greek swap because they’ve already written down their
sovereign holdings and want to avert the risk of a default,
analysts said earlier this week. The success of the swap depends
on how many investors participate in the transaction.  Under the deal, investors will forgive 53.5 percent of
their principal and exchange their remaining holdings for new
Greek  government bonds  and notes from the European Financial
Stability Facility. The plan seeks to reduce Greece’s debt
burden by 107 billion euros, the Institute of International
Finance, which led negotiations, said earlier this week. The
swap is meant to help reduce the country’s debt to 120.5 percent
of gross domestic product by 2020.  RBS reported a net loss for 2011 of 2 billion pounds
compared with a deficit of 1.1 billion pounds a year earlier.
That was worse than the 1.1 billion-pound median estimate of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Credit Agricole , based outside Paris, reported a fourth-
quarter net loss of 3.07 billion euros, wider than analysts’
estimates. Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Chifflet set aside
money at the lender’s Greek consumer-banking network and booked
about 2.6 billion euros in writedowns on investments including
its stake in Spain’s Bankinter SA and Banco Espirito Santo SA of
 Portugal  in the quarter.  Commerzbank said full-year profit slid to 638 million euros
from 1.43 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  