-- Treasuries Advance After U.S. Seven-Year Note Sale Demand Exceeds Average
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-02-23T22:06:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/treasuries-erase-losses-after-seven-year-note-sale-demand-exceeds-average.html
Treasuries rose after the U.S. sale
of $29 billion in seven-year notes drew stronger-than-average
demand amid concern  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis hasn’t been
contained.  U.S. 10-year yields reached a one-week low as the European
Commission said the region’s economy will shrink this year,
dragged down by Italy and  Spain . Treasuries fell earlier as U.S.
weekly initial jobless claims held at a four-year low. At the
seven-year note sale, the bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount of securities
offered, was 3.11, compared with an average of 2.81 for the
previous 10 sales.  “It is general uncertainty about what’s next for a lot of
things with what’s going on in Europe,” said  George Goncalves ,
head of interest rate strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc., one of
21 primary dealers that trade directly with the  Federal Reserve .
“There are dollars all over the place that have to be put to
work.”  The  yield  on the current seven-year note fell one basis
points, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.39 percent, at 4:59 p.m.
in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader Prices. The 1.25
percent securities maturing in January 2019 rose 2/32, or 63
cents per $1,000 face amount, to 99 2/32.  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year  note  fell one basis
point to 2 percent and touched 1.97 percent, the least since
Feb. 16.  Auction Detail  The seven-year notes drew a yield of 1.418 percent,
compared with a forecast of 1.456 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of 11 of the Federal Reserve’s primary dealers.  “It looks like a good one,” said  Thomas Roth , senior
Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA
Inc. “Treasuries are what people want to own because they think
it’s the safest thing out there. It’s fear of Europe falling
apart.”  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 41.8 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 39.9 percent for the past 10 sales.  Direct bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 19.3 percent of
the notes, the most since at least February 2009, compared with
an average of 11.9 percent at the last 10 auctions. Treasury
resumed sales of seven-year notes in February 2009 after
suspending sales in 1993.  “People were caught off guard by the direct bid,” said
Justin Lederer, an interest-rate strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald
LP in  New York , a primary dealer. “It’s the largest since the
reintroduction.”  Repo Trades  The auction was also helped by investors in short-term
markets who have been willing to pay to borrow the securities in
exchange for loaning cash for the most actively traded seven-
year note, which is the 1.25 percent security that matures in
January 2019. Typically, lenders of cash receive interest on
those loans, represented by a positive repurchase agreement, or
repo, rate. Securities in highest demand have lower rates and
are called “special.”  The overnight repo rate for the current seven-year note
closed yesterday at negative 2.02 percent, according to data
from ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker. The rate
closed today at 0.06 percent.  “The issue being on special helped demand on the margins
as people had to pay up for it in the repo market to borrow it
and that illustrated that there as a reasonable amount of demand
for the security,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond
strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Note Returns  Seven-year notes have lost 0.02 percent this year, after
returning 14 percent in 2011, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index. The overall Treasury market has fallen 0.5
percent this year after gaining 9.8 percent in 2011.  Today’s offering is the third of three auctions of U.S.
notes this week totaling $99 billion. The Treasury sold $35
billion of five-year debt yesterday at a yield of 0.9 percent
and $35 billion of two-year securities on Feb. 21 at 0.31
percent.  Volume (ICPTVOL)  in the Treasury market yesterday remained below the
one-year average of $275 billion. About $255.4 billion of
Treasuries changed hands through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest
interdealer broker.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures
price swings based on options, closed yesterday at 79.6 basis
points, near the lowest level since July 2007. The five-year
average is 112 basis points.  Economic Data  Applications for jobless benefits were unchanged in the
week ended Feb. 18 at 351,000, the fewest since March 2008,
Labor Department figures showed today. The median projection in
a Bloomberg News survey called for 355,000 claims, marking the
fourth straight week that the figures have been better than
forecast.  “The market sold off a little bit on the jobless-claims
data,” said Thomas Simons, a government debt economist in New
York at Jefferies Group Inc., a primary dealer. “This is the
survey week for employment so it indicates we may get another
strong payroll data.”  The Fed sold $8.6 billion of Treasuries maturing from April
2014 to February 2015 today, according to the New York Fed’s
website. The bank is replacing shorter-maturity securities in
its holdings with longer-term debt to cap borrowing costs.  Fed Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said additional
asset purchases by the central bank are unnecessary and calls
for such a move are “wishful thinking” by  Wall Street .  “Our job is not to prop up the Street,” Fisher said
today in an interview on CNBC. “We are working on the real
economy.” Some investment professionals appear to have
“wishful thinking” for more accommodation, he said.  Benchmark 10-year note yields may rise to 2.50 percent by
year-end, according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of financial companies, with the most recent projections
given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  