-- Rehn Tells Euro-Skeptic Soini to Retract Czarist Thug Remark
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-02-23T13:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/rehn-tells-euro-skeptic-soini-to-retract-czarist-thug-remark-1-.html
European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  has told the leader of  Finland ’s
euro-skeptic party to apologize for likening him to a Czarist-
era ruler in a spat that coincided with the nation’s vote on a
second Greek bailout.  Timo Soini, who leads “The Finns” party, yesterday told
broadcaster YLE that Rehn reminded him of Nikolay Bobrikov, a
Russian appointed by Czar Nicholas II to lead the Nordic country
before Finland gained independence in 1917. Bobrikov was shot
dead in 1904 by a Finnish activist after imposing rules that
undermined local laws and required Finns to speak Russian.  “This is not only hurtful for a patriotic man such as
myself, but also dangerous hate speech to be likened to a
murdered man,” Rehn, a former Finnish lawmaker, said in an e-
mailed statement today. “This statement is inappropriate and I
expect Soini to apologize for his distasteful remark.”  Soini has lambasted European leaders’ efforts to contain
the debt crisis and said the measures demanded of  Greece  in
exchange for its bailout impinge on the nation’s sovereignty.  “Brussels’ Bobrikov is a figure of speech,” Soini said
today, according to broadcaster YLE’s website. “I stand by my
words. A person in public office must be able to take
criticism.”  Greece won a second rescue package this week after  Europe ’s
governments wrung concessions from private investors and tapped
into European Central Bank profits to prevent a default. Greek
parties were asked to commit to austerity measures and reforms
in exchange for the 130 billion euros ($173 billion) of loans.  Finnish lawmakers are due to vote on the country’s
contribution to the second bailout on Feb. 28.  The  International Monetary Fund , the ECB and the European
Commission dictate Greece’s policy regardless of its election
results, Soini told YLE. Soini’s party became the parliament’s
third-largest last April as voters rewarded his bailout-bashing
agenda. It’s the biggest opposition party in the legislature.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  