-- Trina Expects Higher Solar Shipments After Quarterly Loss
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-02-23T17:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/trina-solar-reports-fourth-quarter-loss-grew-to-65-8-million.html
Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , a Chinese maker of
solar panels, said it expects to boost shipments by as much as
39 percent this year after lower prices resulted in a fourth-
quarter loss. The shares fell to a two-week low.  The  fifth-biggest panel maker  will ship as much as 2.1
gigawatts of photovoltaic modules compared with 1.51 gigawatts
in 2011, the Changzhou-based company said today in a statement.
The net loss of $65.8 million compared with a profit of $145.3
million in the year-earlier quarter.  Trina shares fell as much as 10 percent and  were down  9
percent to $8.88 at 12 p.m. in New York, their lowest since Feb.
8. That may be more due to today’s news of subsidy cuts in
 Germany  than Trina’s earnings, which “weren’t that bad” with
no “fireworks,” Aaron Chew, analyst at Maxim Group LLC in New
York, said today in an interview.  “Pricing just always drops in solar,” Chew said. “As
long as subsidies are there and keep getting cut, prices will
follow.”  Solarworld AG (SWV)  and Conergy AG had similar slumps in
shares in  Frankfurt , with both sliding at least 8.2 percent.  Germany’s plans could see support for solar slashed by as
much as 29 percent from March 9 with further decreases each
month beginning in May. Plants larger than 10 megawatts won’t
get support after July 1.  Trina plans to expand capacity even after the average
prices for modules almost halved last year on oversupply,
driving down the shares of manufacturers. Trina has lost 69
percent of its market value in the past 12 months, compared with
Suntech Power Holdings Co., which is down 66 percent, and LDK
Solar Co.’s 56 percent drop.  ‘Biggest Problem’  The company is losing money as panel prices fall, Chew
said, adding that he doesn’t know what Trina is going to do to
start making money again. “That’s their biggest problem right
now,” he said.  “We see evidence of increasing solar demand in markets
less dependent on support,” Chairman Jifan Gao said in today’s
statement.  Trina expects its first-quarter gross margin will be in the
“low teens in percentage terms” after negotiating new lower-
cost supply agreements for silicon, the raw material in its
panels. The margin was 7.1 percent in the fourth quarter.  The company said it also expects to boost its production
capacity by as much as 500 megawatts to about 2.4 gigawatts by
the end of the first half.  Trina reported revenue of $2.05 billion last year, a 10
percent increase from 2010. It swung to a full-year loss of
$37.8 million from a profit of $311.5 million the previous year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  