-- Romney Gets No Support From Snyder in Run Dogged by Federal Auto Bailout
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-02-23T14:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/romney-gets-no-support-from-snyder-dogged-by-bailout.html
As  Mitt Romney  barnstorms Michigan
explaining his opposition to the federal auto bailout, Governor
 Rick Snyder  -- who endorsed him in the Feb. 28 Republican
primary -- isn’t leaving the capital for the campaign trail.  “I’ve got a pretty full schedule already,” Snyder told
reporters Feb. 21. “It’s more of a logistics question.”  With Romney and  Rick Santorum  almost  even  in recent polls,
Snyder has avoided confrontation, political combat and vigorous
advocacy for a presidential candidate who opposed the action
that helped his state’s unemployment rate fall to 9.3 percent in
December from a peak of 14.1 percent in August 2009.  Snyder, 53, said he’d rather the candidates not hammer at
the $82 billion federal bailout of companies including  General
Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC, an act that Snyder said saved
Michigan’s economy from meltdown. Last week, GM said it earned
$9.19 billion last year, the largest profit in its 103-year
history, and regained its position as the world’s top-selling
automaker.  “I’m not going to judge that,” Snyder told reporters last
week at a Republican dinner near  Detroit  where 1,400 came to
hear Santorum. “That’s history, and let’s move forward.”  “I don’t spend time on negative issues, I really find
common-ground issues and I found a lot of common ground with
Governor Romney.”  Not So Helpful  Romney, in a primary campaign debate in  Arizona  last night,
defended his view. He said that while rescuing Wall Street banks
was necessary to prevent a collapse of the financial system, the
auto bailout “gave the companies” to the United Auto Workers
union.  “They were part of the reason the companies were in
trouble,” he said.  Snyder spent two days last week campaigning for Romney and
doing interviews with national media. He may get more involved
as the election approaches, said Sara Wurfel, his spokeswoman.  Staying home may be the wiser choice: Among Republican
primary voters, 28 percent said Snyder’s endorsement made them
less likely to vote for Romney, according to a Public Policy
Polling survey conducted Feb. 17-19. Only 13 percent said
Snyder’s choice would sway them and 57 percent said it made no
difference.  An NBC/Marist survey of likely voters in  Michigan ’s
Republican primary released yesterday shows Romney and Santorum
in a virtual tie: Romney has 37 percent support and Santorum 35
percent, with the margin of error plus-or-minus 3.7 points.  Native Son  Romney is a Michigan native whose father, George, was the
state’s governor and chairman of the now-defunct American Motors
Corp.  In a 2008 New York Times opinion piece, Mitt Romney wrote
that a bailout would mean “you can kiss the American automotive
industry goodbye.” President  Barack Obama ’s rescue of GM and
Chrysler was “crony capitalism on a grand scale” that enriched
unions, he said in a Feb. 14 guest editorial in the  Detroit
News .  Snyder’s endorsement of Romney wasn’t big news, said  Bill Ballenger , publisher of Lansing-based Inside Michigan Politics.  He said Romney’s view of the auto bailout isn’t different
from Santorum’s or those of the other Republican candidates.  “There’s no place else to go, for anyone with a brain in
their head, for an alternative to Mitt Romney on the auto
issue,” Ballenger said.  Nerdy And Proud  The governor also shrugged off his difference with Romney
over laws that prohibit labor contracts from requiring workers
to pay union dues. Romney supports such laws and has criticized
labor bosses at appearances in Michigan, home of the UAW. Snyder
has called the issue too divisive and said he wants no part of
so-called right-to-work legislation in 2012.  A governor doesn’t have to agree with all of a presidential
candidate’s views to support him, said John Truscott, a Lansing
consultant who was press secretary to Republican Governor  John
Engler  in the 1990s. Romney’s opposition to the bailout carries
little political risk for Snyder, he said.  “Frankly, I don’t think Governor Snyder cares,” Truscott
said. “He’s not your typical political guy.”  Snyder is a former venture capitalist who paid for much of
his own gubernatorial campaign in 2010, and often refers to
himself as a nerd and a nonpolitician.  No Apparatus  Snyder’s endorsement means little because he has no
political machine to drum up voters, said Michigan Democratic
Party Chairman Mark Brewer. Other Republicans have spoken in
support of the bailout, he said.  The potential pitfalls of a presidential endorsement were
demonstrated in 2000 when Engler backed  George W. Bush  in a
primary against  John McCain . Engler boasted that Michigan would
be Bush’s “firewall.”  Instead, McCain, helped by Democrats and independents, beat
Bush.  Engler’s support prodded union Democrats to work for McCain
because of their dislike for Engler, Truscott said.  “I don’t think that same feeling exists toward Governor
Snyder,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  