-- Rudd Signals He May Challenge Gillard for Labor Leadership
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-02-23T21:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/rudd-signals-he-may-challenge-gillard.html
Former Australian Foreign Minister
 Kevin Rudd  signaled he’s considering a challenge to Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  for the Labor party leadership in a Feb.
27 ballot.  “It’s critical that whoever leads our country has the
trust and confidence of the Australian people,” Rudd told
reporters at a press conference in  Brisbane  today. “If you
don’t have that, you can’t do anything else.”  When asked directly if he would take on Gillard in the
vote, Rudd said he would make a definitive statement on his
future later today after consulting with colleagues.  A challenge by Rudd would bring to a head weeks of growing
tension in the party, with opinion polls showing the
government’s popularity is hovering near a record low. At stake
for Labor is survival of an administration that’s unveiled
unprecedented taxes on natural resources and fees to address
climate change -- an agenda Gillard calls “nation-changing
reform” that has proved unpopular with voters.  Gillard,  Australia ’s first female leader, yesterday said
there had been a long-running campaign to undermine her
government and that she is best-placed to lead Labor to victory
against opposition leader  Tony Abbott  in elections due in 2013.
She sought to head off any attempt by Rudd, 54, to continue his
campaign even if he loses the ballot.  Rudd, who landed in Brisbane in his home state of
Queensland, resigned as foreign minister at a press conference
earlier this week in  Washington , where he had been meeting U.S.
government officials.  Autocratic Style  Gillard, 50, ousted Rudd as prime minister in a June 2010
party-room coup amid complaints about his autocratic style and
concerns about the effectiveness of his government. Yesterday
she pledged in a news conference in her hometown of  Adelaide  to
“renounce any ambition” for leadership if she loses and called
on Rudd to make a similar commitment.  Labor was 14 percentage points behind Abbott’s Liberal-
National coalition in a poll earlier this month, even amid
falling unemployment and rising consumer confidence.  “For the last 12 months, Mr. Abbott has been on track to
become prime minister of Australia in a landslide,” Rudd said
today. “The core question for my parliamentary colleagues, and
I believe the Australian people, is who is best equipped to
defeat Mr. Abbott at the upcoming election.”  Fear of Reprisals  Rudd, a Mandarin-speaking former diplomat who was prime
minister from 2007 to 2010, urged Australians to contact their
local Labor lawmakers and express their view on the leadership.  He called on Gillard to guarantee that Labor lawmakers
could vote freely in any ballot, without fear of reprisal.  If Rudd challenges, he would need the support of 52 of the
103 lawmakers in the  Labor party  to beat Gillard and return to
the top job. As lawmakers began declaring for either Gillard or
Rudd, the Australian newspaper yesterday tallied 65 in favor of
the prime minister, with 31 against and seven undecided.  A “decisive” win by the prime minister could “lance the
boil and then Gillard can get back to her message of being a
good reformer and legislator,” said  Malcolm Mackerras , a
political analyst at the Australian Catholic University in
Canberra. “Then the government might just get back on track and
have a chance of winning the next election.”  Abbott, 54, told reporters yesterday his coalition presents
a “stable and united team,” and urged holding an early
election. The Liberal-National opposition has pledged to scrap
the mining and climate-change measures Gillard has pursued. The
mining tax has yet to become law, awaiting a vote in the
Senate.  Stocks of companies subject to the taxes, scheduled for
introduction July 1, were little changed yesterday. The
Australian 100 Resources Index rose 0.1 percent to 6,635.16. The
local currency bought $1.0711 as of 8:18 a.m. in Sydney, little
changed since the end of last week, when it closed at $1.0706.
Benchmark 10-year government bond futures traded at 95.905, from
95.895 on Feb. 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  