-- Salesforce Rises After Billings Growth Tops Analyst’s Estimates
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-02-24T15:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/salesforce-tops-analyst-profit-sales-estimates-after-adding-new-features.html
Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , the largest
seller of online customer-management software, gained the most
in more than three months after the company reported an
acceleration in its billings, a harbinger of sales growth.  The amount Salesforce invoiced its customers grew 57
percent in the period from a year earlier, topping the 31
percent predicted by  Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS AG in San
Francisco. Billings rose 29 percent in the third quarter.  Chief Executive Officer  Marc Benioff  has landed large
corporate contracts and added new tools that handle customer
support and analyze social-media postings. Salesforce’s variety
of products, which run on personal computers, iPads and
smartphones, provide customers with enough flexibility that they
keep buying more, Thill said. Some rival software is suited to
handling only certain tasks.  “What’s really driving this is that Salesforce has a
platform of multiple products that customers don’t get dead-
ended by,” said Thill, who recommends buying the shares. “The
customers I talk to buy it because they don’t get caught in a
cul-de-sac.”  Salesforce gained 7.9 percent to $142.16 at 9:54 a.m. New
York time. Earlier the shares touched $146.26 for the biggest
intraday percentage gain since Nov. 19.  Excluding some costs, profit was 43 cents a share in the
fourth quarter, San Francisco-based Salesforce said in a
statement yesterday. Analysts had predicted 40 cents, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 38 percent to
$631.9 million, beating the $624.1 million estimate.  Large Contracts  Salesforce closed a contract worth more than $100 million
in recent weeks with a large insurer, Benioff said during a
conference call with analysts yesterday. It also signed fourth-
quarter deals with  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG, AT&T Inc. and Sony Corp., he said.  “We are becoming a trusted adviser” to companies adding
social media and mobile computing to their operations, Benioff
said. “In that process, deals are getting bigger.”  First-quarter  revenue  will be $673 million to $678 million,
Salesforce said. Analysts had  projected  $663.5 million on
average. Earnings will be 33 cents to 34 cents a share,
excluding some items, compared with a 36-cent estimate.  The company also raised its revenue forecast for fiscal
2013 to $2.92 billion to $2.95 billion. Analysts had predicted
$2.91 billion. Earnings excluding some items will be $1.58 to
$1.62 a share, compared with a $1.63 estimate.  Marketing Spending  The company’s  net loss  attributable to common shareholders
was $4.08 million, or 3 cents a share, in the fourth quarter,
which ended Jan. 31. That compared with net income of $10.9
million, or 8 cents, a year earlier. Higher marketing and
research spending weighed on the results.  Salesforce is facing increasing competition in the market
for business applications delivered through cloud computing,
which stores customers’ data on remote servers. The approach
provides users with automatic upgrades to new versions in
exchange for monthly or annual subscription fees.  Oracle Corp. agreed this month to buy Taleo Corp., a maker
of online human resources software, for about $1.9 billion,
marking its second Web software acquisition in less than four
months. In October, Oracle said it would buy RightNow
Technologies Inc. for $1.5 billion.  SuccessFactors Deal  In December, SAP AG agreed to buy SuccessFactors Inc. for
$3.4 billion. SuccessFactors’ online software for managing
employees’ performance has more than 3,500 customers and 15
million users.  Benioff played down the threat of those deals yesterday.
SuccessFactors could get lost inside SAP, he said. And Oracle’s
cloud-computing acquisitions could confuse customers who buy its
traditional applications, Benioff said.  Salesforce also is confronting a challenge from startups.
Workday Inc., whose online software handles tasks like payroll
and human resources, plans to file for an initial public
offering later this year.  Salesforce may need to tap additional new markets as growth
slows for customer-relationship programs, said Pat Walravens, an
analyst at JMP Securities LLC in  San Francisco . To help it
branch out,  Salesforce acquired  human-resources software maker
Rypple in December for an undisclosed amount.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  