-- San Miguel Is Said to Be in Talks to Buy 49% of Tan’s Philippine Airlines
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-02-24T03:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/san-miguel-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-49-of-philippine-airlines.html
San Miguel Corp., the  Philippines ’
largest company, is in talks to buy 49 percent of  Philippine
Airlines Inc. (PAL)  and take management control of the carrier,
according to three people familiar with the discussions.  The airline, controlled by billionaire Lucio Tan, expects
to get about $500 million for the stake, said one of the people,
who declined to be identified as the discussions are private.
Tan’s holdings will drop to about 51 percent as the carrier will
issue new shares, the people said.  A purchase would help San Miguel President Ramon Ang reach
his goal of doubling sales by 2016 as he diversifies away from
food and brewing. Unprofitable Philippine Air cut 2,400 jobs in
2011 after losing market share to budget carrier Cebu Air Inc.  Ang declined to comment about a possible deal in a mobile-
phone message yesterday. Joey de Guzman, a Philippine Air
spokesman, declined to comment. Tan controls the carrier through
companies including Manila-listed PAL Holdings Inc.  “The airline business has the potential for growth in a
country that’s now focused on boosting its infrastructure and
tourism,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , market strategist at Manila-
based BDO Unibank Inc. “ San Miguel  is betting on the view that
once the nation’s infrastructure improves, tourism will boom and
you start bringing in bigger planes, increase air traffic and
even turn PAL into a regional player.”  Asia’s Oldest Carrier  PAL Holdings rose as much as 3.2 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since Feb. 13, to 8 pesos before trading up 1.9
percent at 7.90 pesos as of 11:38 a.m. in  Manila .  San Miguel, parent of the brewer that controls more than 90
percent of the Philippines’ beer market, said last year it plans
to  invest  more than $4 billion expanding in industries including
energy, telecommunications and transportation. In August, the
Manila-based company agreed to buy three Malaysian units from
Exxon Mobil Corp. for $610 million.  Philippine Airlines,  Asia ’s oldest carrier, posted a $33.5
million loss in the October-December period. Cebu Air, which
flies as Cebu Pacific, has lured customers with a younger fleet
and a low-cost, no-frills service. A carrier backed by AirAsia
Bhd., the region’s biggest budget airline, may begin flying in
the country as early as next month.  PAL Holdings, which owns 82 percent of Philippine Airlines,
has  jumped  49 percent in Manila trading in the past year. Tan
controls 98 percent of the  parent company .  Tan, the second-richest man in the Philippines behind  Henry Sy , has a family fortune of $2.3 billion, according to Forbes.
His other companies include cigarette-maker Fortune Tobacco
Corp. and Asia Brewery Inc., the country’s second-biggest
brewer.  San Miguel Corp. (SMC)  boosted recurring net income 41 percent in
the first nine months of last year to 11.6 billion pesos ($272
million), according to a  statement  on its website. Earnings were
bolstered by sales of higher-margin petrochemicals at refiner
Petron Corp. and a 7 percent rise in revenue at its brewery
business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  