-- Sanctions Alone Won’t Topple Syria’s Assad: Meghan L. O’Sullivan
-- B y   M e g h a n   L .   O ’ S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-02-23T00:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/sanctions-alone-won-t-topple-syria-s-assad-meghan-l-o-sullivan.html
On Feb. 24, the U.S., European
nations, members of the  Arab League  and other sympathetic
countries making up the newly established “Friends of Syria”
group will gather in  Tunisia  for an emergency meeting on how to
stem the bloodshed in Syria. Their deliberations are almost
certain to involve calls for more crippling sanctions to bring
about regime change and debates over providing military support
to the fractured opposition groups inside the country.  While more economic steps can and should be taken, policy
makers need to rethink the incorrect assumption that the more
ambitious the objective (regime change, in this case) the more
comprehensive and aggressive sanctions must be. Instead of
simply looking for more ways to isolate Syria economically, the
U.S. and its allies need to think about how sanctions can be
used specifically to advance regime change. This will require
creating a sanctions policy more subtle and nuanced way than one
aiming just to contain a regime, or even to change its behavior.  A look at the record reveals how wrong it is to equate
tough, widespread sanctions with the successful pursuit of
regime change. Hard-line strategies -- extensive U.S. measures
coupled, in some cases, with multilateral sanctions -- didn’t
lead to regime change in  Saddam Hussein ’s  Iraq  in the 1990s,
 Muammar Qaddafi ’s  Libya  in the 1980s and ‘90s, Iran since the
mid-1990s or  Fidel Castro ’s Cuba since, it seems,  before the
beginning of time.  Pressuring the Government  In contrast, sanctions contributed to the ouster of the
entrenched apartheid regime in  South Africa  and to the end of
 Slobodan Milosevic ’s rule in  Serbia . In neither of those cases
were punitive measures truly multilateral and comprehensive. In
South Africa, the only UN sanction was an arms embargo; even
U.S. sanctions were selectively targeted to certain exports and
investments. Penalties were focused on pressuring the government
to change its ways while simultaneously allowing support to flow
to nascent civil society, which helped increase the capabilities
of the opposition and created even greater incentives for
change. In Serbia, sanctions by the U.S. and others were paired
with support to opposition groups as well as clear statements
from international powers about what benefits a new regime in
Serbia would enjoy.  Those seeking regime change in  Syria  should move away from
the distracting idea that harsher measures are the key to
resolving that country’s crisis. Sanctions alone almost never
produce such strategic outcomes. More likely, President Bashar
al-Assad will be toppled through a strategy focused equally on
starving the regime of hard currency and cultivating the
opposition so it becomes a viable alternative to Assad’s
government. Right now, the opposition is fragmented, lacks
popular legitimacy and offers no real vision for a new Syria.  Many advocates of stricter sanctions feel that targeting
those at the economic base of the regime will lead them to
abandon Assad. But no amount of economic pressure is likely to
convince those loyalists that they will be better off in a post-
Assad world; dismal economic prospects will always be much more
attractive than the organized revenge killings and systematic
discrimination by the state that many fear will be their future
once Assad is gone.  To change that calculation, the opposition needs to
coalesce into a much more cogent entity. It must unify not only
around removing Assad, but around the principles on which a new
Syrian state will be built. In doing so, it should give
assurances to Syria’s Alawite and Christian minorities that
their rights and safety will be respected in a new Syria. Its
leaders should also decide on what a form of governance the new
nation would have, and commit to a constitution allowing all
groups some prospect of having an impact on national policy.  Outside Powers  Outside powers have a limited ability to help the
opposition perform these essential tasks. Technical support from
constitutional scholars and offers of neutral venues for
discussion are important, but will only go so far. Too much
foreign meddling in these details would lead to questions of the
opposition’s legitimacy.  Nevertheless, Western and Arab governments can provide
incentives for the anti-Assad forces to resolve factional
differences, make hard calls and compromises, and articulate
clear visions and principles. Specific commitments of support to
a post-Assad government would be important. But one of the
strongest incentives would be the promise of material and
military assistance.  There is no UN embargo on Syria, making deliberations
simpler than the fraught debates about providing arms to the
beleaguered Bosnian Muslims in the 1990s. (Indeed, the
international community should be cautious about placing a UN
arms embargo on Syria. It should remember the travesty of the
Bosnian arms embargo, which ended up effectively being an
intervention on the side of the aggressor rather than the
victim, as the Serbian-backed forces had extensive weaponry and
the Bosnian Muslims none.)  The arguments against arming the opposition are strong.
Doing so could escalate violence, contribute to mayhem after
Assad’s demise, lead to U.S. or international complicity in a
messy civil war, and spark a proxy war between  Iran  and the
Western and Arab powers.  Yet U.S. policy makers are misleading themselves if they
believe they can decide whether or not the Syrian opposition
will be armed. First, the U.S. is a peripheral actor in this
arena; Americans may focus on President Barack Obama’s or
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s strong statements that
Assad must go, but few in the region see them as an indicator of
imminent U.S. action. Second, some countries -- possibly  Saudi
Arabia , Qatar or  Turkey  -- may arm the Syrian opposition. The
strategic stakes of the outcome in Syria are too high for the
rest of the region to stand by, especially as Russia and Iran
are perceived to be militarily shoring up the Assad government.  Behind the Scenes  What the U.S. may be able to influence is the manner by
which the opposition is armed. Faced with the dilemma of
violating the UN arms embargo on Bosnia or letting the Bosnian
Muslims be crushed,  Bill Clinton ’s administration decided
publicly to argue against sending in weapons, but privately to
do nothing to hamper illicit Iranian arms shipments to the
Bosnian Muslims.  Similarly, some U.S. proponents of arming the Syrian
opposition seem comfortable letting others do this work behind
the scenes. The U.S. need not get involved, they say.  History,
however, suggests that this sort of approach can create
unintended consequences with major negative implications for
domestic security. In the 1980s, the U.S. desire to maintain
“plausible deniability” in arming the Afghan mujahedeen against
the  Soviet Union  led to the deeply flawed strategy of channeling
assistance through Paksitan’s intelligence services. The United
States had little oversight when it came to who was being armed
and no ability to influence their agendas or objectives beyond
fighting the Soviets.  Prioritizing the ability to claim no involvement runs the
real risk of a situation in which various Syrian groups are
armed by different patrons with no accountability. Instead, the
 United States  should take a leadership role in Friday’s meeting
to craft a multilateral strategy for regime change. This plan
should involve coordinating the efforts of all external actors
looking to support those standing against Assad -- and find a
way to use military and other support for the opposition as a
means to entice it to overcome its divisions and articulate a
new vision for Syria.  If Russia and  China  insist on neutering the UN as a vehicle
to address the crisis in Syria, it should not force those
sympathetic to the plight of the Syrian people or worried about
Syria’s descent into chaos to stand by. Nor should it limit
action to sanctions, in the unfounded hope that more economic
pressure alone will bring about regime change.  Instead, the U.S. should work with its Western and Arab
allies to craft a coordinated strategy that, alongside
sanctions, is aimed at turning the Syrian resistance into a
viable alternative to Assad -- and uses the prospect of military
support as an incentive for doing so.  (Meghan L. O’Sullivan, a professor at Harvard University’s
Kennedy School of Government and former deputy national security
adviser in the George W. Bush administration, is a Bloomberg
View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this column:
Meghan L. O’Sullivan at  Meghan_OSullivan@hks.harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  