-- Santorum’s Senate Clashes Raise Ex-Colleagues’ Leadership Doubts
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-02-23T15:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/santorum-senate-clashes-raise-former-colleagues-doubts-about-leadership.html
Rick Santorum ’s opening act as a
freshman senator in 1995 was an attempt to strip the title from
the Republican chairman of the appropriations committee, which
determines government spending.  It was the start of a 12-year Senate career that featured
the evolution of Santorum from an upstart newcomer to a member
of the leadership, a transformation that required him at times
to compromise his conservative ideology to fulfill political
ambitions.  Along the way, Santorum built a bipartisan roster of
critics. Only one of his former Senate colleagues has endorsed
his Republican presidential bid -- and former Ohio Senator Mike DeWine did that only after endorsing two other contenders first.
Twenty-seven former and current senators have endorsed former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney.  “He came into the Senate at full throttle,” said former
Senator  Byron Dorgan , a North Dakota Democrat who served with
Santorum and recalled the then-freshman’s effort to remove
Oregon Senator Mark Hatfield from the appropriations committee.  “That’s very unusual for a sitting senator to try to strip
another senator of a full committee chairmanship,” said Dorgan.
“He lost a lot of friends.”  Taxpayer-Subsidized Haircuts  John Brabender, one of Santorum’s closest advisers, said
the campaign hasn’t asked for additional endorsements from his
former colleagues and said that Santorum may have lost
popularity with his peers because he tried to change the way
Congress did business. For instance, Santorum pressed to end
taxpayer-subsidized haircuts and meals for members of Congress.  “It was a small thing, but we couldn’t change  Washington 
until we changed the culture of showing senators and congressmen
it’s not their money, it’s your money,” said Brabender. “When
you do that type of thing, a lot of your colleagues aren’t
holding the elevator door open for you anymore.”  As he ascended the leadership ranks, in 2001 becoming the
chamber’s third-ranking Republican, Santorum was a leading
advocate for many of Republican President  George W. Bush ’s
biggest spending programs, including an expanded prescription
drug program for seniors, which are now anathema to the anti-tax
Tea Party grassroots and fodder for attacks from Romney.  ‘Good Rick and Bad Rick’  “We have good Rick and bad Rick,” said  Jack Pitney , a
professor at  Claremont McKenna College  in California who served
as a Republican aide in the House in the 1980s.  “Bad Rick is hyper-partisan, nasty, prickly, hyper-
defensive and given to strange musings about social issues,”
Pitney said. “Then there’s the good Rick, who is very capable
of serious bipartisan legislating” -- such as Santorum’s
leadership on the Combating Autism Act of 2006, he said.  Santorum was elected to the U.S. House in 1990, where he
became one of the “Gang of Seven” freshman who fanned the
House bank scandal, which involved members overdrawing their
House checking accounts without penalty.  Pennsylvania  voters sent him to the Senate in 1994, where
he focused initially on such spending issues as pushing for a
balanced-budget amendment, reducing farm subsidies and
tightening government welfare benefits for the poor.  Clash With Hatfield  Santorum’s clash with Hatfield, which also involved West
Virginia Senator  Robert Byrd , occurred in his first month in
office. Santorum urged his Republican colleagues to remove
Hatfield after the Oregon senator voted against a balanced
budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution that the Senate
newcomer supported.  In his 2000 re-election campaign, Santorum softened his
image as an impertinent freshman, emphasizing his work with
Connecticut Senator  Joseph Lieberman , then a Democrat who is now
an independent, on community-renewal projects and embracing the
“compassionate conservative” faith-based messages of the man
at the top of the party ticket, Bush. After the election, he was
elevated to chairman of the Republican Conference,  where he
oversaw the Republican caucus communications efforts.  By the time he was defeated in his 2006 re-election bid,
Santorum was better known for his opposition to same-sex
marriage and abortion rights. In 2005, he helped force a vote in
the Senate to have a judge intervene in the case of Terri Schiavo, a Florida woman living in a vegetative state whose
parents objected to her husband’s instruction to doctors to
remove her feeding tube.  ‘Unyielding’ Attitude  “It wasn’t the stances he took as much as the very
unyielding and sometimes kind of disdainful attitude he had
towards his colleagues,” said Steve Bell, an aide to former
Republican Senator Pete Domenici of  New Mexico . “He was not
part of the folks who tried to get things done.”  Republican  Alan Simpson , a former Wyoming senator who
supports Romney, said Santorum upbraided him for voting against
a 1995 bill prohibiting a form of late-term abortion.  “He called me a baby killer,” said Simpson, who supported
the procedure in cases to clear the birth canal of a failed
pregnancy. “He was very, very rigid, very rigid, and you can
see that look in his eye right now,” he said. As president,
Santorum would “impose these beliefs with zeal,” said Simpson.  Kennedy Demands Apology  In 2005, Santorum so enraged Senator  Edward Kennedy  that
the Massachusetts Democrat took to the floor in an unusual
personal attack. Kennedy called on Santorum to apologize to the
people of  Boston  after writing a column linking the region’s
culture to the sexual abuse scandals of the Roman Catholic
Church.  “It is no surprise that Boston, a seat of academic,
political and cultural liberalism in America, lies at the center
of the storm,” Santorum wrote in a July 2002 column for
Catholic Online.  “Rick has a set of core values, he’s a hard charger,”
said DeWine, who endorsed Romney and former Minnesota Governor
Tim Pawlenty before switching to Santorum on Feb. 18.  “For some senators, that may have offended them. The
culture of the Senate is a different culture. I think the
average American would be happy with someone who would shake up
that culture,” he said in an interview.  Dan Schnur, an aide on Arizona Senator  John McCain ’s 2000
presidential campaign who now directs the Jesse M. Unruh
Institute of Politics at the Los Angeles-based University of
Southern  California , said, “This type of criticism caused a
tremendous amount of damage to Gingrich’s candidacy, but it
might not have as much impact for Santorum. He talks about how
he came to Washington to shake things up. The fact that other
politicians don’t speak well of him may hurt him less.”  Developing Messages  As a Senate leader, Santorum was responsible for developing
persuasive political messages around and passing the Bush
agenda, which is now opposed by anti-government spending
activists in the  Republican Party .  Bush’s 2001 “No Child Left Behind” education bill
expanded the federal government’s role in state programs. In an
Arizona debate last night, Santorum said he regrets that
decision because it increased federal spending.  “When you are part of a team, you sometimes take one for
the team, for the leader,” Santorum said. “I made a mistake.”  In 2003, Santorum parted with other anti-tax Republican
senators such as McCain, Don Nickles of  Oklahoma  and Trent Lott
of  Mississippi  to support Bush’s push to expand Medicare
prescription drug coverage. He also used his rising clout to
press for millions of dollars in taxpayer money to finance
special projects in Pennsylvania, a practice commonly known as
earmarking.  ‘Big-Spending Habits’  “His record is plagued by the big-spending habits that
Republicans adopted during the Bush years of 2001 to 2006,”
according to a research paper by the Club for Growth, a
nonpartisan Washington-based group that tracks  government
spending .  Santorum and other Republicans voted for tax cuts and new
spending simply “because it was part of the president’s
agenda,” said Josh Gordon, policy director at the Concord
Coalition, a Washington-based group that advocates for a
balanced budget. “The period from 2001 to 2008 before the
recession was the most fiscally irresponsible period in
governing.”  Simpson, who helped draft a  deficit  reduction proposal as
part of President Barack Obama’s debt commission, defended
Santorum on the issue of seeking special funding for home state
projects. “All of us were bringing home the bacon,” he said.  Labor Votes  Santorum cast occasional votes at odds with Republican
orthodoxy in order to appeal to his Pennsylvania constituents,
which included labor union members and senior citizens.  Among those votes was his opposition to the  North American
Free Trade Agreement  in 1993 and a striker replacement measure.
He voted for some minimum wage increases in the House and the
Senate.  Santorum’s labor positions have become an issue in
 Michigan , where Romney has nicknamed his rival “big labor’s
favorite senator.”  In a Jan. 15 Fox interview, Santorum defended his prior
positions, saying they merely reflected his constituents.  “I believe the state has the right, if they want to have a
union-dues requirement, that the state should be able to do
that,” he said. “As a president, I have a very different point
of view.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  