-- Santorum Put on Defensive Amid Attacks After Republican Debate in Arizona
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2012-02-23T21:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/santorum-faces-fire-in-arizona-debate-on-spending-record-as-u-s-lawmaker.html
Rick Santorum  fought to regain
momentum in the Republican presidential race today, struggling
to explain why he voted for proposals in Congress that he’s
since said violated his fiscal and moral principles.  In a debate in Arizona last night, Santorum described
politics as a “team sport,” saying he sometimes backed
legislation such as then-President  George W. Bush ’s No Child
Left Behind education measure to “take one for the team.”  Santorum’s explanation was potentially dangerous for a
candidate casting himself as the true fiscal and social
conservative in the nomination battle and promising to stand by
his convictions. With primaries five days away in Arizona and
Michigan, Romney and his allies seized on opportunities to
undercut Santorum’s support.  Campaigning in Phoenix this morning, Romney attacked
Santorum for voting for proposals he later said he opposed,
including the national education law, funding for Planned
Parenthood, and federal spending known as earmarks for home-
state projects.  “I don’t know that I’ve ever seen a politician explain in
so many ways why it was he voted against his principles,”
Romney told a building trade group. “If I’m president of the
 United States , I will abide by my principles and my team will be
the people of the United States of America.”  ‘Inside the Beltway’  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , a Romney backer,
derided Santorum’s debate remarks in an interview today on
 MSNBC .  “He’s talking about, well, ‘I’m a team player, it’s
against my principles, but I voted for it,’” Christie said.
“This is why you don’t want somebody who has been inside the
Beltway that long, who has been a member of Congress and had no
other experience in his life other than that.”  The attacks sought to capitalize on a strong performance by
Romney in the 20th -- and possibly final --debate of the
Republican race.  Santorum was targeted throughout the forum as he shared the
stage with rivals for the first time since he unseated Romney
atop national polls of Republican leaning voting. Joining Romney
in the attacks on Santorum -- which included questions about the
anti-abortion stances that have defined his career -- was U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas .  ‘Fake’ Charge  Paul stood by a campaign ad calling Santorum “a fake” for
claiming to be a fiscal conservative. “I find it really
fascinating that, when people are running for office, they’re
really fiscally conservative,” Paul said. “When they’re in
office, they do something different.”  Romney hammered Santorum for voting as a U.S. senator from
 Pennsylvania  for an Alaska road project that came to symbolize
the congressional earmarking process used by lawmakers to funnel
tax dollars to pet programs.  Santorum responded that Romney had asked for earmarks
himself as governor of  Massachusetts  and when he ran the 2002
Winter Olympics in  Salt Lake City ,  Utah .  “While I was fighting to save the Olympics, you were
fighting to save the bridge to nowhere,” Romney shot back,
referring to the Alaska project.  Super Tuesday  The candidates were vying to gain an edge before the Feb. 28
primaries in  Arizona  and Michigan. The debate -- which included
former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  -- also offered the last
chance for direct exchanges before Super Tuesday on March 6,
when 11 states hold contests that should play a major role in
determining who secures the Republican nomination.  Recent statewide surveys show Romney leading in Arizona and
running neck and neck with Santorum in  Michigan (BEESMI) , Romney’s
birthplace.  Spending in Michigan on commercials by Romney’s team and a
political action committee backing him has outpaced comparable
expenditures on behalf of Santorum by about 3-to-2, according to
data from New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG.  The Romney campaign and the super-PAC Restore Our Future
that independently promotes his candidacy spent $1.97 million to
air ads 3,718 times on  Michigan  broadcast television stations
through yesterday, CMAG reported. Santorum and the Red White and
Blue Fund, a super-PAC helping him, spent $1.25 million to air
ads 3,178 times.  The two super-PACs paid for 4,077 of the 6,896 ads, or 59
percent of the total.  Romney is spending today campaigning in Arizona and
Michigan, while Santorum is raising money in Texas with an
appearance before the  Red White and Blue Fund .  Bailout Issue  The Democrats, too, jumped into the fray this morning, with
President Barack Obama’s campaign announcing it’s starting to
run an ad critical of the opposition among the Republican
presidential candidates to the $82 billion federal bailout of
the automotive industry -- a dominant issue in Michigan.  “Don’t bet against the American  auto industry ,” Obama
says in the ad by way of a video clip of a speech he gave in
November 2010 in Kokomo,  Indiana .  Santorum in the debate defended his opposition to the auto
bailout by saying that, unlike Romney, he was consistent in also
disagreeing with the $700 billion financial industry rescue.  “He supported the folks on  Wall Street  and bailed out Wall
Street -- was all for it -- and then when it came to the auto
workers and the folks in  Detroit , he said no,” Santorum said.
“I believe in markets, not just when they’re convenient for
me.”  Romney Response  Romney dismissed the criticism -- “Nice try,” he told
Santorum -- and argued he had merely opposed writing car
companies a large check, rewarding labor unions that had helped
weaken them without seeking needed changes to get the industry
back on its feet.  Romney’s proposed alternative was a managed bankruptcy to
allow the car companies to restructure. Economists, industry
specialists and other politicians in both parties say the
companies would have had to close without the government help
because no private entity was willing to provide the funds to
get them through a re-organization.  Santorum’s opposition to abortion rights came under
question as Romney and Paul attacked him for helping fund
 Planned Parenthood  Federation of America Inc., a group that
provides abortion services, by supporting spending bills that
included money for the organization.  Abstinence Issue  Santorum vowed not to sign any spending bill that
appropriated money to Planned Parenthood if he became president.  At times, the attacks veered into arcane political trivia,
with Romney blaming Santorum for passage of the national health
care law, opposed by Republicans, because, six years earlier, he
had backed his then-Senate Republican colleague,  Arlen Specter ,
in a Pennsylvania primary fight over a more conservative rival.  “If you had said ‘no’ to Arlen Specter, we would not have
had Obamacare. So don’t look at me; take a look in the mirror,”
Romney said.  Santorum responded that he supported Specter in the 2004
primary because Specter promised to back Bush’s Supreme Court
nominees. Specter switched parties in 2009 and provided a
crucial vote for the health-care overhaul.  Santorum and Romney shouted at each other over the matter,
fingers wagging, until moderator John King of CNN intervened.  Gingrich, whose debate appearances have fueled his
campaign, had a relatively quiet presence on the stage, taking
few shots at his rivals or King. He’s forgoing campaigning in
Michigan to focus his attention on the March 6 contests. Today,
he’s holding campaign rallies in Washington and Idaho.  Still, he showed no signs of unhappiness with his
diminished status in the race. When asked for one word that
defined him, Gingrich responded “cheerful.”  Paul picked “consistent.” Romney offered “resolute.”
Santorum chose “courage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Mesa, Arizona, at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  