-- Santorum and Obama, Allies on Industrial Policy: Alan D. Viard
-- B y   A l a n   D .   V i a r d
-- 2012-02-23T00:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/santorum-and-obama-allies-on-industrial-policy-alan-d-viard.html
President  Barack Obama  and
Republican presidential contender  Rick Santorum  have finally
managed to find something they agree on. Despite their many
differences, they see eye to eye on the notion that the tax
system should favor manufacturing over other sectors of the
economy.  In his new corporate-tax-reform framework, President Obama
calls for focusing the existing tax break on domestic production
more tightly on manufacturing, with bigger tax savings for
“advanced” manufacturing. The Santorum tax plan goes even
further, advocating the complete elimination of corporate income
taxes on manufacturing. Unfortunately, these proposals fly in
the face of sound economic policy.  For one thing, manufacturing tax breaks are more complex
than you might think. You have to figure out what manufacturing
is before you can single it out for tax savings. The domestic
production tax break, which Congress said should go to the
making of goods -- but not to the provision of services -- has
struggled with such definitions for the past seven years.  Coffee Test  For example, in the regulations carrying out this tax
break, the  Internal Revenue Service  has declared that brewing
coffee at a retail shop is a service while roasting coffee beans
away from the shop is part of a sale of goods.  Trying to separate consumer purchases into goods and
services is as economically senseless as it is complex. After
all, consumers cannot live by goods alone. Is medical care that
saves lives and relieves pain any less valuable because it’s a
service rather than a good?  Obama, Santorum, Congress and the IRS aren’t equipped to
decide what combination of goods and services best meets the
needs of American consumers. Only consumers are able to make
those decisions, which they do every day in the marketplace. Two
centuries of economic analysis establish that the free market
normally directs economic resources to their best use.
Unfortunately, targeted tax breaks like those proposed by Obama
and Santorum tilt the playing field and short-circuit the
workings of the market.  Much of the infatuation with manufacturing reflects
economic nostalgia. Manufacturing now accounts for less than 10
percent of total U.S. employment, down from almost 30 percent
six decades ago. It may seem tempting to try to undo this shift
and return to the real or imagined glories of the past. But any
such effort runs headlong into the powerful forces that have
shaped our economic history.  International trade has played some role, as American
consumers have found that they can buy some manufactured goods
more cheaply from foreign producers. But, the impact of trade is
a sideshow compared with the economic effects of the
manufacturing sector’s phenomenal productivity growth.  Fewer Workers Needed  With today’s technology, far fewer workers than before are
needed to produce the same bundle of manufactured goods. This
productivity growth holds down employment in this sector.
Meanwhile, the need for fewer workers makes goods cheaper. With
less of their budget soaked up by purchases of goods, consumers
are liberated to buy more services. Employment rises in the
services sector as it shrinks in the manufacturing sector.  This is not the first time that productivity trends have
fueled a dramatic transformation of the  U.S. economy . Rapid
productivity growth in farming led to a relentless dwindling of
the fraction of Americans employed in agriculture. But nobody
suggests that the government try to turn the clock back to the
19th century by inducing tens of millions of workers to return
to the nation’s farms. It makes no more sense for the government
to try to defy market forces by keeping workers in the nation’s
factories.  Rather than struggle to recapture the past, we should
embrace the economy of the future. Manufacturing will
undoubtedly play a significant role in that economy. But its
role should be set by consumers’ market decisions, not
artificially bolstered by government subsidies and special tax
breaks.  (Alan D. Viard is a former senior economist at the  Federal
Reserve  of  Dallas  and a resident scholar at the  American
Enterprise Institute . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Alan D. Viard at  aviard@aei.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 