-- Sarasin Full-Year Profit Declines 22% Amid Second-Half Outflows
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-02-23T06:52:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/sarasin-full-year-profit-declines-22-amid-second-half-outflows.html
Bank Sarasin & Cie. AG (BSAN) , the Swiss
wealth manager being acquired by Safra Group, said full-year
profit dropped 22 percent as clients withdrew money in the
second half.  Net income fell to 83.9 million Swiss francs ($92.3
million) from 107.8 million francs a year earlier, the Basel,
Switzerland-based bank said today in a  statement . That missed
the 123.6 million-franc average  estimate  of seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Despite an environment characterized by ongoing
uncertainty, we do not plan any fundamental change of
direction,” Chief Executive Officer Joachim H. Straehle said in
the statement. “Our focus on sustainability and tax-compliant
assets will pay off in the long run.”  Safra, founded in the Syrian city of Aleppo in the 19th
century, agreed in November to pay more than 1 billion francs
for Rabobank Groep’s controlling stake in Sarasin. The
acquisition, due to be completed by the middle of this year,
will help Safra expand its private banking network in  Europe ,
the  Middle East  and  Asia .  Sarasin reported 1.5 billion francs of net new money in
2011, missing the company’s target of 8 percent annualized
growth. Customers withdrew money in the second half of the year
amid an “adverse market situation” and as the company focused
on tax-compliant assets.  The firm is adding more branches in  Germany  and building
networks in Asia to attract clients as the erosion of Swiss
banking secrecy crimps profit margins.  Gross Margin  Gross margin, a measure of profitability, fell to 68 basis
points from 70 basis points a year earlier. A basis point is one
hundredth of a percentage point.  Sarasin, which aims to ensure all customers are tax
compliant by the end of 2012, had assets under management of
96.4 billion francs on Dec. 31, compared with 101.6 billion six
months earlier. The firm aims to reach 150 billion francs in
managed assets by 2015.  The purchase of Rabobank’s stake will give Safra 68.6
percent of the  voting rights  and a 46 percent equity interest in
Sarasin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  