-- Scalia Courted as Unlikely Obama Ally in Top Court Health Battle
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-02-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/scalia-courted-as-unlikely-u-s-high-court-ally-on-obama-health-care-law.html
The fate of President Barack Obama’s
health-care law may hinge on the administration’s ability to
enlist an unlikely ally: Justice  Antonin Scalia , the pillar of
the U.S. Supreme Court’s conservative wing.  Scalia, 75, looms as a pivotal vote in the landmark case,
the first time the high court has considered a president’s
signature legislative victory during his re-election campaign.
The court will hear arguments for three days in late March with
a decision possible in June -- just months before the election.  “It would be a huge coup for the administration to win
Scalia over and certainly in the realm of possibility,” said
Theodore Ruger, a constitutional and health-care law professor
at the University of Pennsylvania Law School in Philadelphia.  The Obama administration needs the vote of at least one of
the five Republican appointees on the nine-member court to
uphold the law and its requirement that everyone get insurance.
It is appealing to Scalia based on the justice’s own words from
a 2005 opinion in an unrelated case affirming the federal
government’s power to control locally grown medical marijuana.  “Congress may regulate even noneconomic local activity if
that regulation is a necessary part of a more general economic
regulation of interstate commerce,” Scalia wrote.  Whether that opinion suggests Scalia may vote to uphold the
health-care law is a matter of dispute. The administration will
have to overcome the conservative instincts of a justice who
opposes abortion and gay rights and wrote the decision
conferring constitutional protection for gun ownership.  Marijuana Decision  Like health care, the marijuana dispute tested Congress’s
power over interstate commerce. The court decided 6-3 that
federal prosecutors could press cases even if the drug never
crossed state lines and even when its medical use was legal
under state law.  Scalia, in his concurring opinion, said the federal ban
would be undermined if prosecutors had to make exceptions. He
pointed to the Constitution’s provision that lets Congress go
beyond the powers the document explicitly lists. That clause
permits additional laws that are “necessary and proper” for
carrying out Congress’ enumerated powers.  The 2010 health-care law, the Affordable Care Act,  extends
coverage  to an estimated 32 million people who lack insurance,
largely via an expansion of the federal-state  Medicaid (USBOMDCA)  program
for the poor. It requires that people get insurance by 2014 or
face a tax penalty.  Deriding the law and its mandates has become a staple of
the Republican presidential campaign, with candidates calling
measure “Obamacare.” Winning the support of Scalia --appointed
by former President  Ronald Reagan  and an icon among legal
conservatives -- would help blunt those Republican attacks.  Colleagues’ Support  The Obama legal team also may be encouraged that two
Republican-appointed federal appeals court judges, both close to
Scalia, have said the law is constitutional. And a third said a
challenge to the measure was premature.  Still, for Scalia to back a law widely loathed by
Republicans would be an exception to his long pattern of
conservative positions. He also was the first justice to issue
an opinion backing then-Governor  George W. Bush  over Democratic
Vice President  Al Gore  in the 2000 presidential election
deadlock.  Blunt Spoken  Scalia’s combativeness and blunt language have made him one
of the court’s most divisive figures. Scalia once told a
colleague her reasoning in an abortion case “cannot be taken
seriously.” When the court expanded the rights of prisoners at
the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, he said the ruling
“will almost certainly cause more Americans to be killed.”  Retired Justice  John Paul Stevens , who served for two dozen
years with Scalia, said in a September interview that Scalia
wouldn’t be ideologically driven on the health care decision.
Scalia’s personal view wouldn’t have “the slightest impact on
his analysis of the constitutional issue.”  That outlook isn’t shared by Brian Fitzpatrick, a former
Scalia clerk, who said the justice’s conservative instincts
probably will cause him to side with the states that are
opposing the health legislation.  “He’s probably still a pretty solid vote to strike down
the individual mandate,” said Fitzpatrick, who teaches
constitutional law at Vanderbilt University Law School in
Nashville,  Tennessee .  Justices in Play  Scalia declined to comment, said  Kathy Arberg , the Supreme
Court’s spokeswoman. Justices as a matter of course don’t
discuss pending cases.  Scalia isn’t the only Republican-appointed justice in play
in the case. Chief Justice  John Roberts  and Justices Anthony Kennedy and  Samuel Alito  similarly have written or joined in
opinions affirming federal powers.  The Obama administration invoked Scalia’s marijuana opinion
five times in a court filing last month. It argues that
mandating insurance coverage for individuals is an essential
component of the law. Millions of healthy consumers are needed
to expand the premium base because of new requirements that
insurers accept people with preexisting conditions and charge
them the same rates as other policyholders, the government said.  Scalia’s analysis in the marijuana case “applies
remarkably closely, and even more strongly, to this case,” said
David Strauss, a constitutional law professor at the  University
of Chicago Law School .  Sided With States  Lawyers for the 26 states challenging the law disagree.
Scalia’s marijuana opinion was “a very modest use of the
necessary-and-proper clause,” merely allowing in-state
regulation of a drug already banned across state lines, said
David Rivkin, who represented the states at an earlier stage.  With health care, there is a thinner connection between the
mandate and the rest of the law, said Rivkin, a Washington
lawyer with Baker Hostetler LLP.  Scalia votes in other cases suggest skepticism toward
federal power. He has backed decisions limiting Congress’
commerce clause authority in 1995 and 2000.  Scalia last year joined Justice  Clarence Thomas  in saying
the court should have considered the validity of a federal ban
on body armor possession by convicted felons. And Scalia wrote
the 1997 opinion striking down part of the Brady gun control
law, saying it infringed the rights of states.  “He certainly is one of the justices who believes very
robustly that the federal government is a government of limited
and enumerated powers,” Rivkin said.  Republican Appointees  The Republican-appointed appellate judges who have voted to
uphold the health care law include Laurence Silberman, a
longtime friend who worked alongside Scalia in the  Justice
Department  under President  Gerald Ford . The other, Jeffrey Sutton, once served as “one of the very best law clerks I ever
had,” in Scalia’s words.  Both relied heavily on the  Supreme Court ’s ruling in the
marijuana case, known as Gonzales v. Raich, using reasoning that
backers of the law say may resonate with Scalia.  “I think he’d come into the argument skeptical about the
legislation,” said  Doug Kendall , president of the Washington-
based Constitutional Accountability Center, which supports the
law. “But I think he’ll have a hard time squaring the challenge
to it with his opinion in Raich.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  