-- Scene Last Night: In Vitro Meat, Vertical Farms, String Beans
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-02-23T16:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/scene-last-night-in-vitro-meat-vertical-farms-sutton-place-string-beans.html
Veronique Pittman, wife of CC Media
Holdings Inc.’s chief executive officer, Robert Pittman, and a
trustee at the Green Schools Alliance, recommended the pickled
string beans.  Joelle Wyser-Pratte, a managing partner at  Ounavarra
Capital LLC  and a trustee of Educate Girls Globally, scooped up
a pig in a blanket.  The offerings at the party last night for the book
“Abundance: The Future Is Better Than You Think,” were
abundant and better than the norm.  The hosts were Wyser-Pratte and her husband, Paul O’Reilly-
Hyland, also a managing partner at Ounavarra.  On the first floor of their Sutton Place townhouse, they
gathered a cheerful crowd that included Ali Velshi,  CNN ’s chief
business correspondent; Amir Dossal, founder and chairman of the
 Global Partnerships Forum ; Andrea Sullivan, an  executive
director  at  Interbrand ; and Ann Lee, author of “What the U.S.
Can Learn From  China .”  Waiters passed miniature grilled-cheese sandwiches, sliders
and tuna tartar on crisps. The string beans were found on a
table by the fireplace, near candles nestled in rock crystal
holders.  Barely taking a nibble were the authors of the book, Peter H. Diamandis, chairman and CEO of the X Prize Foundation, and
Steven Kotler, a journalist. (The foundation, which mounts
competitions to address specific problems, awarded a prize last
October for a new way of cleaning up oil spills.)  One Grape  “I’m one of those people who couldn’t care less about
food,” said Kotler, who finally popped a grape in his mouth.  One had the feeling he’d rather talk about  Rancho de
Chihuahua , the sanctuary he founded with his wife in  New Mexico 
for special-needs and elderly dogs.  Still he did have some predictions about food.  “We’ll have in vitro meat made with  stem cells , which will
mean fewer cows harming the environment,” Kotler said. “And
vertical farming -- growing food in skyscrapers. A head of
lettuce will come from five stories above the restaurant instead
of from hundreds of miles away.”  The book describes these and other advances we may see in
the next two decades in energy, health care, education and
freedom.  “We are all going to live better than ever before,”
Diamandis said.  What exactly is the diet of an optimist? Kotler had eaten a
protein shake for breakfast; his co-author, Diamandis, a hard-
boiled egg.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 