-- Sears to Raise Up to $770 Million With Store Sales After Quarterly Loss
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2012-02-23T21:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/sears-will-sell-11-stores-separate-hometown-outlet-units-to-boost-cash.html
Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  plans to raise
as much as $770 million by selling 11 store sites and separating
some smaller-format businesses after posting its largest
quarterly loss in at least nine years. The shares surged.  The rights offering to separate the Hometown and Outlet
shops and some hardware stores may raise $400 million to $500
million,  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based Sears said today in a
statement. The 11 sites will be sold to General Growth
Properties for about $270 million, the retailer said.  Sears, controlled by hedge-fund executive  Edward Lampert ,
has worked to lessen its dependence on its mall-based stores by
investing in the smaller Hometown stores, its Craftsman, Kenmore
and DieHard brands as well as its online operations. Selling the
faster-growing small-format unit will help Sears’s balance sheet
and generate value for shareholders, Lampert said today in a
letter to investors.  “They’re trying to figure out how to get the structure
down but should also be focusing on how to get people in
stores,”  Craig Johnson , president of Customer Growth Partners
in  New Canaan ,  Connecticut , said today in an interview.
“They’ve made some strides in solving their structural problem
today.”  Sears rose 19 percent to $61.80 at the close in  New York 
for the biggest gain since Jan. 8, 2009. The shares tumbled 56
percent last year.  Fourth-Quarter Loss  The company today reported a fourth-quarter net loss of
$2.4 billion, or $22.63 a share, compared with net income of
$374 million, or $3.43 a year earlier. The fourth-quarter loss
was the company’s largest since at least the quarter ending in
October 2002. Sales fell about 4 percent to $12.5 billion, Sears
said.  Chief Executive Officer Lou D’Ambrosio said in the
statement that the company was taking “immediate actions” to
address the losses, including cost and inventory reductions,
targeted marketing and hiring for its merchandising team.  “We believe the industry is transforming dramatically and
that we have to accelerate that transformation,” D’Ambrosio
said today in a telephone interview.  The company said Dec. 27 it would close as many as 120
Sears and Kmart stores to generate as much as $170 million in
cash from inventory and lease sales.  “It’s very difficult to turn around a ship at the same
time as you’re trying to bail it out,” Johnson said. Sears
still is “underplaying the seriousness of their situation,” he
said.  In his annual investor letters, Lampert has identified the
Hometown and Sears Outlet stores as sources of growth and
profit. About 1,250 of those locations are included in the
separation announced today, Chris Brathwaite, a spokesman, said
today in an e-mail.  ‘Very Difficult’  Running Sears’s different business under a single
management structure has been “very difficult,” Lampert said
today in his letter to shareholders. Management of several of
the businesses will be separated from the core Sears and Kmart
unit and the retailer will consider splitting other parts of its
portfolio into separately owned companies, he said.  “We will make the difficult decisions required to position
 Sears Holdings  for the future and we will not accept such poor
performance without making substantial adjustments,” Lampert
said. “We have a portfolio of businesses and assets that
deserve to generate substantial value for our shareholders.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  