-- Shanghai Reiterates Property Curbs Haven’t Changed After Reports of Easing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-23T09:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/shanghai-reiterates-property-curbs-haven-t-changed-after-reports-of-easing.html
Shanghai  reiterated its property
curbs late yesterday after a state-run newspaper reported that
China’s financial center was easing measures to allow a broader
pool of people to buy second homes.  Shanghai isn’t changing its housing policies and will
continue implementing home-purchase restrictions, Liu Haisheng,
the head of the city’s housing authority, said in a  statement  on
its website. Shanghai Securities News, affiliated with state-run
Xinhua news agency, said yesterday that the city was loosening
its definition of locals to let residence-permit holders with at
least three years in the city buy second homes.  “The reiteration shows that the local governments are in
fear of going against the central government even though they
have the intention of secretively loosening their policies,”
said Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG. “The Shanghai government left the definition
of ‘locals’ vague, so they could have a lot of leeway to explain
when needed.”  Local governments have attempted to ease tightening
policies on property even after Premier  Wen Jiabao  reinstated
his stand this year that  China  won’t waver on its real estate
controls and efforts to bring prices down to a reasonable level
to ensure fairness and stability. Xiangshan, a county in China’s
eastern Zhejiang province, removed home-buying restrictions this
year, National Business Daily reported today, citing people from
the local property industry association it didn’t identify.  Property Stocks  The gauge tracking property stocks on the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.5 percent at the close, climbing for a
fifth day, the longest stretch of gains since Oct. 28.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048) , the country’s second-biggest
developer, increased 0.2 percent to 11.3 yuan in Shanghai, while
 Gemdale Corp. (600383)  added 0.4 percent to 5.67 yuan.  Chinese developers traded in  Hong Kong  fell.  China Overseas
Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , the biggest Chinese developer listed in
Hong Kong, dropped 0.2 percent to HK$16.36, while Country Garden
Holdings Ltd. lost 4.1 percent to HK$3.53.  The Shanghai government’s statement came a week after the
eastern Chinese city of Wuhu reversed a decision to relax
property curbs. The mid-sized city in Anhui province had planned
to waive a deed tax and subsidize some purchases on Feb. 9,
becoming the first Chinese city this year to signal its
intention to ease property measures.  ‘Most Critical’  Shanghai was among 40 cities that imposed home purchase
restrictions last year. Those considered local residents of
Shanghai are allowed to own two homes, while non-locals are
limited to one. The policy didn’t specify if residence permit
holders would be classified as locals, who are usually
recognized as those born in the city or who have worked for an
extended period of time, according to Credit Suisse and CIMB-GK
Securities Research.  “It is now the most critical stage of the central
government’s property controls,” Du said. “It has shown strong
determination and will not let go any time soon.”  China’s January new home prices recorded their worst
performance in at least a year, with none of the 70 cities
monitored by the government posting gains. Shanghai’s housing
values fell 0.1 percent in January from December, the fourth
month of declines, the statistics bureau said Feb. 18.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  