-- Shell’s Cove Bid Starts Race for East African Gas Fields: Energy
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-02-23T09:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/shell-s-cove-bid-starts-race-for-east-african-gas-fields-energy.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s $1.6 billion
bid for  Cove Energy Plc (COV)  starts a race to develop natural-gas
fields off Mozambique’s Indian Ocean coast that may hold more
than Norway’s entire reserves.  Winning Cove would give Shell an 8.5 percent stake in a
block where  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  has found 30 trillion cubic
feet of gas. Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  has discovered even more in a
neighboring area. Together, there’s sufficient fuel for the
development of two $20 billion liquefied natural gas plants to
supply customers in  Asia , according to Deutsche Bank AG.  “We’re a natural partner in that project,” Shell Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Voser  said in an interview in The Hague
yesterday. “We are the global leader in LNG, so this is an
interesting province for us to actually further grow.”  East Africa ’s fields offer a fresh source of gas supply for
 China  and India, the world’s fastest-growing major economies.
Demand for LNG in Asia is rising at almost 20 percent a year,
outstripping the pace of production growth, according to Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. Prices in the region reached a record in
November.  Shell won’t be the last company looking for a way into
Mozambique. India’s  Oil & Natural Gas (ONGC)  Corp. was among Asian
producers considering a bid for Cove and a counter-offer remains
possible. At the same time, Eni and Anadarko have both said
they’re willing to sell stakes in their discoveries.  “This move from Shell leaves other European majors
behind,” said Alejandro Demichelis, a London-based analyst at
Bank of America Corp., adding that  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Total SA (FP)  are
likely to want a role in Mozambique.  ‘Assessing Opportunities’  Shell,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and BP, which had also considered
a Cove bid, according to  London ’s Sunday Times, are the biggest
LNG producers among international oil companies.  Shell itself isn’t likely to settle for Cove’s 8.5 percent
stake in Anadarko’s Rovuma fields and said yesterday it’s
“assessing opportunities” to expand in Mozambique.  The Anglo-Dutch company so far had a limited presence in
east African exploration. Since 2002, it has been negotiating
four exploration licenses off of Zanzibar and Pemba islands,
part of the semi-autonomous nation on an archipelago in the
Indian Ocean. Shell had also drilled a dry well with  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  in  Tanzania  last year.  Cove is “too small for a company the size of Shell with
ambitions and expertise in operating large scale LNG
developments,” Demichelis said.  Northern Neighbor  London-based Cove jumped 26 percent to 194 pence in London
trading yesterday after Shell offered 195 pence a share, or 992
million pounds ($1.6 billion). While Cove said yesterday it
expects the board to recommend the offer, formal sales process
for the company will continue.  The offer boosted the price of other U.K. drillers in east
Africa.  Ophir Energy Plc (OPHR) , which is looking for partners for its
drilling campaign off Tanzania, climbed 7.3 percent and  Afren
Plc (AFR)  gained 5.9 percent.  Tanzania, Mozambique’s northern neighbor, also has the
potential to support LNG projects.  BG Group Plc (BG/)  has already
found about 4 trillion cubic feet of gas there and Ophir CEO
Nick Cooper said last month the geology that yielded
Mozambique’s discoveries may extend across the border. Cove also
has exploration rights.  East African LNG projects will compete with gas from
Australia, where Shell,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and other companies plan
to invest about $250 billion in export projects to supply Asia.
One of the attractions of East African gas is that projects will
be relatively cheap, Bernstein analyst  Oswald Clint  said.  Gas Production  “We estimate that East African projects are likely to be
significantly cheaper than Australian developments,” Clint
said. Through Cove, Shell is also “adding in attractive
frontier exploration acreage in Kenya and Tanzania,” he said.  Mozambique , a $24 billion-a-year economy that ranks 213 of
227 countries in the world for per capita income, has no
significant natural-gas production.  The global gas market will be driven by demand from China,
where LNG imports will more than double by 2015 to 30 million
tons a year, trailing only Japan as a buyer by 2020, according
to Bernstein. The average price of Japan’s LNG imports rose to a
record $16.96 a million British thermal units in November, Japan
LNG Corp. data show.  Anadarko’s Rovuma discoveries and Eni’s neighboring Mamba
find, where the Rome-based company has found 40 trillion feet of
gas so far, together contain 70 trillion cubic feet.  Norway ’s
reserves in 2010 were 72 trillion feet, according to the BP
Statistical Review of World Energy. Both companies plan more
appraisal wells.  CEO Paolo Scaroni said Eni’s willing to sell part of the
field. Anadarko, which has no track record in LNG, may also
dispose of part of its Mozambique holding, Chuck Meloy, a senior
vice president of worldwide operations, said Dec. 6.  “We’re talking about a phenomenal amount of gas to be
discovered yet in East Africa,” said Ashwin Punde, a managing
director for energy investment banking at Bank of America.
Shell’s bid is a “classic example of a big company swallowing a
minnow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  