-- Siemens Blindsided by China Wind Boom Plans ‘Massive’ Investment
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-02-23T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/siemens-plans-massive-wind-energy-investment-on-china.html
Siemens AG (SIE) , the world’s largest
maker of offshore  wind turbines , said it underestimated the pace
of growth in the Chinese wind market and will ramp up spending
to catch up as local competitors increase their lead.  “We’re investing massively in research and development and
to make use of economies of scale in production,” Felix Ferlemann, head of Siemens’s wind-power business, said in
response to e-mailed questions. “We were somewhat taken by
surprise by the strong growth of the Chinese market.”  China  led the world in installing wind-power capacity last
year. Munich-based Siemens is working to keep pace in the
country, where it’s lagging behind suppliers such as  Vestas Wind
Systems A/S (VWS) , while competition puts pressure on prices.
Profitability at Siemens’s renewable-energy unit was wiped out
last year, calling into question Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher ’s strategy of focusing more on green technologies.  Siemens maintains its goal of becoming “a leading company
in wind power,” while it’s not important if this takes two
years or five, Ferlemann said. The company set a goal in 2009 to
rank this year among the world’s top three wind-power companies
by installed generating capacity.  Turnover at the Top  The target was issued by Andreas Nauen, who ran the wind-
power operation until he left in March 2010 to become CEO at a
German unit of Indian wind-turbine maker  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) 
Nauen was succeeded by Jens-Peter Saul, who led the business for
less than 19 months before Ferlemann took over.  Siemens ranked ninth in 2010 among wind-turbine makers by
annual installed capacity, according to estimates by Eduardo Tabbush, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, who said
the German company may climb to fifth place by 2015. Vestas and
Chinese producers  Sinovel Wind Group Co. (601558)  and  Xinjiang Goldwind
Science & Technology Co. (002202)  will remain the top three manufacturers
for the near future, in terms of megawatts sold, he said.  The renewable-energy division, previously among Siemens’s
best performers, had an operating loss of 2 million euros ($2.65
million) for the fiscal year ended Sept. 30 on excess capacity
in countries including the U.S., and price pressure in China.
The company does not break out profit for the wind unit.  Earnings Decline  Vestas, based in Aarhus,  Denmark , posted an annual loss for
the first time in six years in 2011. Sinovel forecast on Jan. 30
that its 2011 earnings probably fell by more than 50 percent
because of lower prices.  The 10 orders that Siemens won worldwide in 2011 for wind-
 farm equipment  included one from China, according to data
collected by Bloomberg New Energy Finance. That compares with at
least seven contracts from China that  Vestas (VWS)  announced.  The German company aims for its wind-power operations to
return to a profit margin of at least 10 percent of revenue by
cutting costs and streamlining operations, Michael Suess, the
head of Siemens’s energy businesses, said in September.  Profitability will drop to about 6.5 percent of sales this
year from 8.5 percent in 2011, according to estimates by Michael Busse, an analyst at Silvia Quandt Research in  Frankfurt .  Siemens is sitting on a record backlog of almost 12 billion
euros worth of wind-power orders, including its first from China
for offshore equipment. The company said in December it will
expand wind-turbine manufacturing, sales and service units in
China through two ventures with  Shanghai Electric Group Co. (601727)   “With our planned joint ventures in China, we’ll soon also
have a good position there and benefit from growth in the
world’s largest wind market,” Ferlemann said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  