-- Silver Lake Sees Fresh Round of Telecommunications Takeovers
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-02-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/silver-lake-sees-fresh-round-of-telecommunications-takeovers.html
Silver Lake (PEF2734) , the largest private-
equity company focused on the technology industry, expects
buyout firms to zero in on makers of telecommunications and
mobile-phone gear this year, spurring a new round of dealmaking.  Private-equity firms will ramp up investments in suppliers
of phone equipment and wireless handsets, said Charles Giancarlo, a managing director at  Menlo Park , California-based
Silver Lake. While he declined to say which companies might be
targeted, analysts have named  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ,  Alcatel-
Lucent (ALU)  and Nokia Siemens Networks Oy as potential takeovers or
investment opportunities.  “It’s definitely an area that’s in great transition right
now,” Giancarlo, a former  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  executive, said in
an interview. “There’ll be more private-equity activity.”  Private-equity firms typically swoop into areas where
market values of companies have dropped. That lets them snap up
businesses -- often through a leveraged buyout, which relies on
borrowed funds -- and try to engineer a turnaround. Networking-
equipment makers and related companies worth at least $1 billion
have an average price-to-earnings ratio of about 28. That’s less
than half the ratio for software and computer-service stocks of
the same size, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Silver Lake  has backed telecommunications companies before,
including Avaya Holdings Corp. and Skype Technologies SA. After
a turnaround effort at Avaya, that company has filed to raise as
much as $1 billion in an initial public offering. The IPO will
happen as soon as April, people with knowledge of the matter
said this month. Skype, meanwhile, was acquired by  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  for $8.5 billion last year.  Apple-Google Dominance  It’s becoming harder for smaller manufacturers of phones
and related equipment to compete, making them cheaper potential
takeovers. Smartphones using  Google Inc. (GOOG)  or  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  software
accounted for  77 percent  of U.S. sales during the fourth
quarter, according to ComScore Inc. Their dominance has
sidelined RIM, the maker of the BlackBerry, which has lost more
than three-quarters of its market value over the past year.  RIM’s market share dropped to 16 percent in the fourth
quarter, from 18.9 percent in the previous three months, Reston,
Virginia-based  ComScore (SCOR)  found.  “It made it very difficult for niche vendors to have a
viable business model,” Giancarlo said.  Few Possibilities  An acquisition by a rival handset or mobile-software
supplier is unlikely, as Google, Apple and Microsoft already
have the technology they need, said  Charlie Wolf , an analyst at
Needham & Co. in  New York . That leaves a private-equity firm as
a more likely suitor.  “The stock is so low that the private-equity firms may go
for it,” Wolf said.  Makers of equipment for telecommunications networks face
their own challenges. Carriers have consolidated, leaving fewer
potential customers. And networking companies are getting
squeezed by Chinese companies, such as Huawei Technologies Co.
and  ZTE Corp. (000063)  That’s led to stiffer price competition and
weighed on stock prices.  “The threat from Huawei should not be underestimated,”
said John Byrne, an  analyst  at Framingham, Massachusetts-based
research firm IDC.  Alcatel, France’s largest telecommunications-equipment
supplier, has lost money in five of the past six years and plans
to cut as many as 1,800 jobs. The Paris-based company also has
been shopping around some of its business units.  ‘Incredible Undervaluation’  Its shares have dropped almost 50 percent in the past year,
making it a steal for a potential acquirer, said  Michael Mahoney , managing director at  Falcon Point Capital LLC , an
investment-advisory firm in  San Francisco .  “The big story to me is the incredible undervaluation of
Alcatel,” he said in an interview. “This stock is a screaming
buy. Private equity should be all over this.”  Nokia Siemens Networks, an unprofitable venture backed by
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and Siemens AG, also may be a target. It said in
November it would eliminate 17,000 jobs, or about 23 percent of
its workforce. The company aims to divest some business units as
well.  Private-equity firms may try to earn a return on their
investments by breaking up companies, making more dramatic cuts
or focusing on new markets.  There are many potential opportunities, Giancarlo said.  “This sector, in the consumer and carrier-equipment side,
is going to be busier this year,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  