-- Slaves Put Squid on Dining Tables From South Pacific
-- B y   E .   B e n j a m i n   S k i n n e r
-- 2012-03-30T22:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/slaves-put-squid-on-u-s-dining-tables-from-south-pacific-catch.html
(Corrects 26th paragraph to show that ling fish sold to
Costco by Quality Ocean did not come from Melilla crews. Story
was published Feb. 24.)  On March 25, 2011, Yusril became a
slave. That afternoon he went to the East Jakarta offices of
Indah Megah Sari (IMS), an agency that hires crews to work on
foreign fishing vessels. He was offered a job on the  Melilla
203 , a South Korea-flagged ship that trawls in the waters off
 New Zealand . “Hurry up,” said the agent, holding a pen over a
thick stack of contracts in a windowless conference room with
water-stained walls. Waving at a pile of green Indonesian
passports of other prospective fishermen, he added: “You really
can’t waste time reading this. There are a lot of others
waiting, and the plane leaves tomorrow.”  Yusril is 28, with brooding looks and a swagger that belies
his slight frame. (Yusril asked that his real name not be used
out of concern for his safety.) He was desperate for the
promised monthly salary of $260, plus bonuses, for unloading
fish. His wife was eight months pregnant, and he had put his
name on a waiting list for the job nine months earlier. After
taking a daylong bus ride to Jakarta, he had given the agent a
$225 fee he borrowed from his brother-in-law, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Feb. 27 edition. The agent rushed
him through signing the contracts, at least one of which was in
English, which Yusril does not read.  The terms of the first contract, the “real” one, would
later haunt him. In it, IMS spelled out terms with no rights. In
addition to the agent’s commission, Yusril would surrender 30
percent of his salary, which IMS would hold unless the work was
completed. He would be paid nothing for the first three months,
and if the job were not finished to the fishing company’s
satisfaction, Yusril would be sent home and charged more than
$1,000 for the airfare. The meaning of “satisfactory” was left
vague. The contract said only that Yusril would have to work
whatever hours the boat operators demanded.  Locked In  The last line of the contract, in bold, warned that
Yusril’s family would owe nearly $3,500 if he were to run away
from the ship. The amount was greater than his net worth, and he
had earlier submitted title to his land as collateral for that
bond. Additionally, he had provided IMS with the names and
addresses of his family members. He was locked in.  What followed, according to Yusril and several shipmates
who corroborated his story, was an eight-month ordeal aboard the
Melilla 203, during which Indonesian fishermen were subjected to
physical and sexual abuse by the ship’s operators. Their
overlords told them not to complain or fight back, or they would
be sent home, where the agents would take their due. Yusril and
23 others walked off in protest when the trawler docked in
Lyttelton, New Zealand. The men have seen little if any of what
they say they are owed. Such coerced labor is modern-day
slavery, as the  United Nations  defines the crime. (The South
Korean owners of the Melilla ships did not respond to requests
for comment.)  Debt Bondage  The experiences of the fishermen on the Melilla 203 were
not unique. In a six-month investigation, Bloomberg Businessweek
found cases of debt bondage on the Melilla 203 and at least nine
other ships that have operated in New Zealand’s waters. As
recently as November 2011, fish from the Melilla 203 and other
suspect vessels were bought and processed by  United Fisheries ,
New Zealand’s eighth-largest seafood company, which sold the
same kinds of fish in that period to distributors operating in
the U.S. (The U.S. imports 86 percent of its seafood.) The
distributors in turn sold the fish to major U.S. companies.
Those companies -- which include some of the country’s biggest
retailers and restaurants -- sold the seafood to American
consumers.  Yusril’s story and that of nearly two dozen other survivors
of abuse reveal how the $85 billion global fishing industry
profits from the labor of people forced to work for little or no
pay, often under the threat of violence. Although many U.S.
seafood companies and retailers claim not to do business with
suppliers who exploit their workers, the truth is far murkier.  Musty Quarters  Hours after Yusril arrived in Dunedin, New Zealand, the
Melilla 203 officers put him to work unloading squid on the 193-
foot, 26-year-old trawler. The ship was in bad shape, and the
quarters were musty, as the vessel had no functioning dryer for
crew linens or work clothes. Yet the conditions seemed
comparatively decent to Yusril.  Two years earlier he had worked on the Dong Won 519,
operating under the auspices of Sanford Ltd., a 130-year-old,
$383 million New Zealand company. On that boat, Yusril says the
officers hit him in the face with fish and the boatswain
repeatedly kicked him in the back for using gloves when he was
sewing the trawl nets in cold weather. Most unnervingly, the
second officer would crawl into the bunk of Yusril’s friend at
night and attempt to rape him. When asked for comment, Chief
Executive Officer Eric Barratt said Sanford’s observers, which
the company placed on all their foreign-chartered vessels
(FCVs), reported that the ships “don’t have any issues with
labor abuse.”  Conditions Worsen  When the Melilla 203 set sail for the deep waters of the
Southern Ocean, conditions worsened, according to the accounts
of Yusril and a dozen other crew members. The ship trawled for
up to two months at a time, between 12 and 200 miles offshore.
The boatswain would grab crew members’ genitals as they worked
or slept. When the captain of the ship drank, he molested some
of the crew, kicking those who resisted. As nets hauled in the
catch -- squid, ling, hoki, hake, grouper, southern blue
whiting, jack mackerel, and barracuda -- the officers shouted
orders from the bridge. They often compelled the Indonesians to
work without proper safety equipment for up to 30 hours,
swearing at them if they so much as asked for coffee or a
bathroom break. Even when fishermen were not hauling catches,
16-hour workdays were standard.  Fatigue  The resulting fatigue meant accidents, which could bring
dismemberment in the cramped below-deck factory where the fish
were headed and gutted by hand, then passed along conveyor belts
to be frozen. Over the past decade at least two crew members of
the Melilla ships have died, according to local newspaper
accounts and reports by  Maritime New Zealand , a government
regulatory body. Dozens of Melilla crew members suffered
injuries, some crippling.  When Ruslan, 36, a friend of Yusril’s on the 203, snapped
two bones in his left hand in a winch, it took three weeks
before he was allowed to go to a hospital. The morning after his
discharge he was ordered back to work but could not carry out
his duties. The company removed him before any follow-up medical
appointments. “I was a slave, but then I became useless to the
Koreans, so they sent me home with nothing,” he says.  Today, back in his home village in Central Java, Ruslan has
a deformed hand. While IMS, the recruiting agency, finally paid
him $335 for three months of work, it has blacklisted him,
according to Ruslan, because he spoke to investigators, and it
has refused to help with medical bills.  Ecological Infractions  During the last decade, New Zealand authorities repeatedly
fined or seized the Melilla ships for ecological infractions,
such as a 2005 oil discharge in  Lyttelton (LPC)  Harbor, which the
country monitored by satellite and occasional inspections by
Ministry of Fisheries observers. Crimes against humanity were
secondary. Scott Gallacher, a spokesman for New Zealand’s
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (which merged with the
Ministry of Fisheries in July), explained that “observers are
not formally tasked” with assisting abused crew, though they
may report abuses to the Department of Labour. Yet Yusril said
that when he once whispered a plea for help, an observer
expressed sympathy but said it was “not my job.”  New Zealand authorities had plenty of prior evidence of
deplorable working conditions on foreign vessels like the
Melilla. On Aug. 18, 2010, in calm seas, a Korean-flagged
trawler called the Oyang 70 sank, killing six. Survivors told
the crew of the rescuing vessel their stories of being
trafficked. A report by Christina Stringer and Glenn Simmons,
two researchers at the University of Auckland Business School,
and Daren Coulston, a mariner, uncovered numerous cases of abuse
and coercion among the 2,000 fishermen on New Zealand’s 27 FCVs.  New Zealand Inquiry  The report prompted the government to launch a joint
inquiry. The researchers gathered testimony from New Zealand
observers who saw abuses being committed even after they had
boarded ships. “Korean officers are vicious bastards,” one
observer said, as quoted in the report. The source said a
factory manager “rapped” a 12-kilogram (26 pounds) stainless
steel pan over a crew member’s head, splitting the top of it,
with blood “pissing out everywhere.” The observer said he gave
the Indonesian fisherman 26 stitches.  After eight months on the Melilla 203, Yusril and 23 other
crew members protested their treatment and pay to the captain.
The move came after a Department of Labour investigator visited
the ship in November 2011, when it was docked in Lyttelton. The
official gave Yusril a fact sheet stipulating that crew members
were entitled to minimum standards of treatment under New
Zealand law, including pay of at least $12 per hour. When
deductions, agency fees, and a manipulated exchange rate were
subtracted, the fishermen were averaging around $1 per hour.  Retribution Threats  The captain dismissed the document and threatened to send
them home to face retribution from the recruiting agency.
Believing that the New Zealand government would protect them
from such a fate, Yusril and all but four of the Indonesian crew
walked off the boat and sought refuge in Lyttelton Union Parish
Church. Aided by two local pro bono lawyers, they decried months
of flagrant human rights abuses and demanded their unpaid wages
under New Zealand’s Admiralty Act.  Ten miles from Lyttelton, in neighboring Christchurch,
stands the headquarters of United Fisheries, the company that
exclusively purchased the fish that Yusril and his mates caught.
The building features gleaming Doric columns topped with friezes
of chariot races. It was designed to resemble the temples to
Aphrodite in Cyprus, the homeland of United founder Kypros
Kotzikas.  ‘High Standard’  The patriarch started in New Zealand with a small fish-and-
chip restaurant. Some 40 years later, his son, Andre, 41, runs a
company that had some $66 million in revenue last year. Although
three Melilla crew members, citing abuse, had run away nine days
before I spoke with Kotzikas, he told me he had heard of no
complaints from crew on board the ships, and he had personally
boarded the vessels to ensure that the conditions “are of very
high standard.”  “I don’t think that claims of slavery or mistreatment can
be attached to foreign charter vessels that are operating here
in New Zealand,” he said. “Not for responsible operators.”  In an e-mail, Peter Elms, a fraud and compliance manager
with Immigration New Zealand, cited a police assessment that
found that complaints from crews amounted to nothing more than
disputes over  work conditions , alleged minor assaults,
intimidation, workplace bullying and non-payment of wages. Elms
said his department had two auditors who visited each vessel
every two or three years, and they had found nothing rising to
the level of human trafficking, a crime punishable in New
Zealand by up to 20 years in prison.  ‘Beautiful Stuff’  Kotzikas said that while New Zealand’s labor laws are “a
thousand pages of, you know, beautiful stuff,” he believed they
did not necessarily apply beyond New Zealand’s 12-mile
territorial radius.  Half of United Fisheries’ annual revenue is generated
outside New Zealand, spread across five continents. In the U.S.,
which imports an estimated $14.7 billion worth of fish annually,
regulators are beginning to pay attention to the conditions
under which that food is caught.  The California Transparency in Supply Chains Act, as of
Jan. 1, requires all retailers with more than $100 million in
global sales to publicly disclose their efforts to monitor and
combat slavery in their supply chains. The law covers some 3,200
corporations that do business in the state, including several
that trade in seafood.  Kotzikas said his company sold ling, a species of fish
which is also caught by the Melilla crews, to Costco Wholesale
Corp, America’s largest wholesaler and the world’s seventh-
largest retailer.  Costco  As is true with many seafood exports from New Zealand, the
exact quantity of United’s sales to Costco was untraceable
through public shipping records. Costco did not respond to
requests for comment about the sales and the abuse allegations.  In New Zealand, there is no independent auditing of catch
method once a fish has been landed and processed. Ling caught by
longlines is considered to be of higher quality and more
environmentally sustainable than ling hauled by trawlers. As a
result, longline-caught fish can fetch double the price,
providing incentive for fraud and mislabeling.  As recently as 2008 the Melilla ships were fined more than
$300,000 for “trucking,” which means misreporting catches from
one fishing area to another. New Zealand officials have not,
however, accused them or any other vessel of trying to mislabel
trawler-caught fish as longline-caught.  ‘Well Away’  Dean Stavreff, managing director of Quality Ocean --- the
Christchurch-based company that exported the fish and whose
largest shareholder is Kotzikas -- said Costco purchases ling
processed through the facility at United Fisheries headquarters.
While he didn’t oversee that process, Stavreff insisted that all
of the ling that Quality Ocean sold Costco had been caught on
“longline” vessels operated by Talley’s Group Ltd and Okains
Bay, two companies that “stay well away from the alleged slave
labor that is associated with the Melilla ships.”  Costco advertises that it offers only chilled, longline-
caught ling to U.S. consumers. The retailer, which annually
audits United’s processing facility but not its vessels, had
issued the company a six-page Supplier Code of Conduct, which
laid out minimum labor conditions and specifically prohibited
slave labor, human trafficking and physical abuse of employees.  Other large U.S. retailers also do business with United
Fisheries. (Thirteen employees at nine seafood companies
contacted for this article agreed to speak only on background.)
PF Chang’s China Bistro Inc, a Scottsdale, Arizona-based chain
with more than 200 restaurants worldwide and more than $1.2
billion in annual revenue, purchased squid exclusively through
Turner, a California-based importer.  Squid  According to Import Genius and Urner Barry shipping
records, Turner bought at least 568,554 pounds of squid from
United since Nov. 2010. Squid was one of the most common seafood
species caught by fishermen held on the Melilla boats, according
to Yusril and other crew members. Turner did not respond to
requests for comment. A representative for PF Chang’s declined
to comment on record.  Honolulu-based importer P&E Foods Inc has also bought at
least 48,940 pounds of squid from United since November 2010.
According to P&E’s president, Stephen Lee, his company sells
squid to Sam’s Club, the 47 million-member wholesaler. Lee said
he was unaware of allegations of abuse on ships chartered by
United, a company with which Lee has done business for “20, 30
years.” He added that he did not know whether any of P&E’s
buyers required him or his suppliers to sign a code of conduct
for labor practices. Carrie Foster, senior manager for corporate
communications at Sam’s Club, said her company does require such
signed agreements from their suppliers.  Risking Punishment  Another New Zealand company with ties to U.S. retailers is
Sanford, the country’s second-largest seafood enterprise. On
Nov. 3, I interviewed crew members of the Dong Won and Pacinui
vessels, charters catching fish for Sanford, near the docks at
Lyttelton. These men risked punishment by speaking out: Less
than a week earlier three Pacinui crew members who had
complained were sent back to  Indonesia  to face the recruiters.  A Dong Won deckhand said he felt like a slave as he
simulated a Korean officer kicking him on the ground. Their
contracts, issued by IMS and two other Indonesian agents, were
nearly identical to those signed by the Melilla crew. They
reported the same pay rates, false contracts, doctored time
sheets and similar hours, daily abuse, intimidation, and threats
to their families if they walked away.  Audits  After several desertions over the past decade, New Zealand
labor audits of the Dong Won ships turned up some of the same
complaints. In 2010, Sanford assured the government that it
would improve oversight of foreign-chartered vessels and address
allegations of abuse or wage exploitation. Barratt, Sanford’s
CEO, said observers of his company’s foreign vessels did not
find instances of abuse and that three deported Pacinui crew had
returned voluntarily.  According to Barratt, his company exports to the U.S.
through at least 16 seafood distributors, the majority through
Mazzetta Co LLC, a $425 million corporation based in suburban
 Chicago  that is the largest American importer of New Zealand
fish. Mazzetta sells the same species caught on the Dong Won and
Pacinui ships to outlets across the country. On Feb. 21, after
the publication of an online version of this article, CEO Tom
Mazzetta sent Barratt a letter demanding an investigation of
labor practices on Sanford’s foreign-chartered vessels.  Sanford also sells to the $10 billion supermarket chain
Whole Foods Market Inc, Barratt said. Whole Foods spokeswoman
Ashley Hawkins said that “for proprietary reasons we cannot
reveal who we source from for our exclusive brand products.”  ‘In Compliance’  Asked about allegations that FCVs in New Zealand employ
slave labor, Hawkins said Whole Foods is “in compliance with
the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act. According to
the U.S. Department of Labor, New Zealand is not considered
high-risk.”  Other buyers of Sanford’s fish include Nova Scotia-based
High Liner Foods Inc, which sells products containing the same
seafood as that caught by the indentured fishermen on the Dong
Won and Pacinui ships. High Liner’s customers include U.S.
retailers such as Safeway Inc, America’s second-largest grocery
store chain, and Wal-Mart Stores Inc, the world’s largest
retailer. When alerted by Bloomberg Businessweek, spokespeople
for both retailers pledged swift investigations.  “As with all of our suppliers, we have a process under way
to obtain documentation” that High Liner complies with human
trafficking laws and reviews its supply chain to ensure
compliance, said Brian Dowling, Safeway’s vice president of
public affairs, on Feb. 17.  ‘Following Up’  “We have not yet received certification from High Liner,”
Dowling said. “However, we are following up with them
immediately and asking that they provide us with
certification.”  High Liner CEO Henry Demone said he “abhorred” slavery
and labor abuse and that his company “tries very hard to do the
right thing.” He said in the case of the FCVs used by Sanford,
“we bought from a company whose labor practices in the plant
were fine. We audited that. We didn’t audit the fishing vessels.
But we relied upon a well-known New Zealand-based company and
their assurance of 100 percent observer coverage.”  It is unclear exactly how much seafood caught by indentured
fishermen ends up on the plates of American consumers. Public
shipping records -- which do not report seafood imported on
planes, and only detail some seafood imported to the U.S. by
boat -- are sparse, and seafood distributors rarely disclose
their specific suppliers. Alastair Macfarlane, a representative
of New Zealand’s Seafood Industry Council, declined to comment
on which American companies might be buying fish from troubled
vessels such as the Melilla 203.  Tainted Fish  However, an analysis of several sources of data --including
New Zealand fishery species quota and FCV catch totals made
available by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry --suggests
roughly 40 percent of squid exported from New Zealand is caught
on one of the vessels using coerced labor. Perhaps 15 percent of
all New Zealand hoki exports may be slave-caught, and 8 percent
of the country’s southern blue whiting catch may be tainted.  Despite the prevalence of foreign-chartered vessels, which
in 2010 earned $274.6 million in export revenue and hauled in
62.3 percent of New Zealand’s deepwater catch, some companies
have determined they are not worth the risk.  “The reputational damage is immeasurable,” says Andrew
Talley, director of Talley’s Group, New Zealand’s third-largest
fishing company, which submits to third-party  audits on its
labor standards, a condition of its contract to supply
McDonald’s Corp with hoki for its Filet-O-Fish sandwiches.  ‘Hard-Earned’ Reputation  “New Zealand seafood enjoys a hard-earned and world-
leading reputation as a responsible fisheries manager, with a
product range and quality to match,” says Talley. “There is
nothing responsible at all about using apparently exploitative
and abusive FCVs.”  The main thoroughfare that bisects Yusril’s Central Java
village feeds into a chain of divided tollways that run all the
way to Jakarta. Travelers along the road quickly leave the briny
air of the fishing kampungs and pass through green rice paddies
dotted with water buffalo and trees bearing swollen, spiky
jackfruit. Sixty years ago, Yusril’s grandfather worked that
land. Today, thousands journey along the highway to seek new
lives.  When I found him last December, Yusril was back in his in-
laws’ modest home, tucked well off a side road. He was out of
work and brainstorming ways to scratch out a living by returning
to his father’s trade, farming. IMS, the recruiting agency in
Jakarta, had blacklisted him and was refusing to return his
birth certificate, his basic safety training credentials, and
his family papers. It was also withholding pay, totaling around
$1,100. In total, Yusril had been paid an average of 50¢ an hour
on the Melilla 203. (An IMS attorney did not respond to repeated
e-mails requesting comment. When I showed up at the agency’s
offices in Jakarta, a security guard escorted me out.)  Two of the 24 men who walked off the Melilla 203 returned
to work on the ship rather than face deportation. The ship’s
representatives flew the remaining 22 resisters back to
Indonesia. When they returned to Central Java, the resisters say
they were coerced by IMS into signing documents waiving their
claims to redress for human rights violations in exchange for
their originally stipulated payments of $500 to $1,000. Yusril
was one of two who held out. On Jan. 21, when I last spoke to
him, I asked why he had refused to sign the document.  “Dignity,” said Yusril, pointing to his heart.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romesh Ratnesar at 
 rratnesar@bloomberg.net  