-- Smaller Greek Companies Forecast Revenue Drop as Crisis Worsens
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-02-23T11:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/smaller-greek-companies-forecast-revenue-drop-as-crisis-worsens.html
Small Greek businesses expect
revenue to fall in the first half of this year as the economic
environment deteriorates, a Marc SA  poll showed .  Half of 1,200 enterprises surveyed said they foresee
difficulties in the coming months and are at risk of shutting
down, according the poll, which was posted on the website of the
Small Businesses Institute at the  Hellenic Confederation of
Professionals, Craftsmen and Merchants . More than 77 percent of
those questioned said they expect business prospects to worsen
in the first half of 2012.  Greece ’s government committed to additional austerity
measures equal to about 7 percent of gross domestic product over
three years to secure a second financing package from the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund .  Fifty-eight percent of the businesses questioned said that
through July 2012 the national priority should be to stabilize
the economy and keep the country in the euro area.  The new measures will lead small and medium-sized
businesses to a “dead-end and the  Greek economy  to a deeper
downturn,” the National Confederation of Hellenic Commerce,
known as ESEE, said in an e-mailed statement today. Higher taxes
and a 22 percent cut in the minimum wage will hurt consumption
and the “serious risk” of default remains.  Retail sales in November declined 6.3 percent from a year
earlier, according to Hellenic Statistical Authority data
released on Jan. 31.  Sales are expected to fall further in the first six months
of this year, according to 79 percent of those polled. Eighty
percent of respondents expect the liquidity situation to worsen
in the six-month period, while 74 percent said they drew on
their personal deposits to cover operating costs.  Nearly 60 percent of those polled plan to keep employee
numbers unchanged in the next six months, while 32 percent said
staff cuts are “likely.” More than 150,000 jobs were cut at
small businesses in 2011, the study showed.  The poll was conducted for the confederation between Jan.
10 and Jan. 18. Small businesses are those that employ as many
as 49 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  