-- Snow in Chicago May Bring a Chill to the Central U.S. Next Week
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-02-23T13:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/snow-in-chicago-may-bring-a-chill-to-the-central-u-s-next-week.html
Today’s snow in  Chicago  and across
the Midwest may keep temperatures closer to seasonal levels in
the central U.S. through next week, forecasters said.  As much as 6 to 8 inches (15 to 20 centimeters) of snow may
fall in Chicago overnight, according to the  National Weather
Service  in Romeoville, Illinois. A winter storm watch covers
parts of Illinois, Indiana and Michigan.  “Heavy wet snow may fall at rates greater than an inch per
hour this evening,” according to the storm watch. “Due to the
high liquid content of the snow those with health concerns
should use caution when shoveling.”  The snow storms may keep average temperatures below normal
through next week across much of the U.S., said  Matt Rogers ,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.
Traders watch temperature predictions to gauge energy use and
demand.  About 51 percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  “An active storm pattern over the Midwest in the short-
term into next week could continue to challenge day-to-day
temperature forecasts, particularly with some opportunities of
heavier, late-season snowfall in spots,” Rogers said.  Winter storm warnings and advisories also stretch from
North Dakota to central  Iowa , the weather service said. Snow is
expected to fall from Iowa through the  Great Lakes  into northern
New England.  St. Johnsbury, Vermont, and Berlin,  New Hampshire , may
receive 2 to 4 inches of snow tomorrow, according to the weather
service.  Above-Normal Temperatures  Temperatures in the southeastern U.S. are expected to be 3
to 5 degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 to 2.8 Celsius) above normal from
Feb. 28 to March 3, Rogers said.  Warmer weather is then expected to spread throughout much
of the eastern U.S. from March 4 to March 8, according to MDA
EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  Temperatures in the eastern Great Lakes to U.S. Northeast,
including  New York , may be 8 to 14 degrees above normal,
according to MDA. In Chicago, they may rise 5 to 7 degrees
higher.  For March 3, the normal average temperature in  New York
City  is about 39 degrees, according to MDA. In Boston it’s 35;
in Chicago 33; in Houston 60; in Dallas 54; in Seattle 45 and in
Burbank, California, 57.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  