-- Solarworld Slides on Record Subsidy Cut Report: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-02-23T13:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/solarworld-slides-on-record-subsidy-cut-report-frankfurt-mover.html
Solarworld AG (SWV) , the world’s fourth-
largest solar-panel maker, dropped the most in five weeks as the
government in Germany,  Europe ’s biggest renewable energy market,
outlined plans to cut subsidies for photovoltaic installations.  Solarworld fell as much as 9.2 percent to 3.61 euros, the
biggest intraday decline since Jan. 20, and was trading down 7.6
percent at 2:45 p.m. in  Frankfurt . That pared the stock’s gain
this year to 13 percent.  German federal aid for the solar-panel industry 2would be
reduced by a range of 20.2 percent to 29 percent and March 9 and
be scaled back further monthly starting in May, according to a
plan announced today by Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen
and Economy Minister Philipp Roesler at a press conference in
Berlin.  “The cuts will drag module prices down and squeeze
margins,” Henning Wicht, lead solar analyst for IHS iSuppli,
said in Munich before the decision. “Module prices in  Germany 
will have to come down at least 10 percent.”  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government is working to curtail
a boom in solar installations that outpaced targets for
renewable energy, which ministers are encouraging as a
replacement for nuclear power that’s being phased out by 2022.
Germany, home to manufacturers including  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  and  Conergy
AG (CGYK) , installed 7.5 gigawatts of panels last year, more than twice
the government’s target.  Officials responsible for setting subsidy levels across
Europe have struggled to keep up as the price of solar equipment
tumbled in recent years. Panel prices fell about 46 percent last
year, driving installations even as subsidies fell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  