-- Soros Sees Merkel Shoving Europe Into ‘Deflationary Debt Trap’
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-02-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/soros-sees-merkel-shoving-europe-into-harsh-deflationary-spiral-books.html
George Soros  is usually thought of
as the man whose hedge fund broke the  Bank of England  with a $10
billion bet that the pound would lose its peg to other European
currencies.  These days, the billionaire investor is seeking to save a
currency union, not bury it. In “Financial Turmoil in Europe
and the  United States ,” he laments that the euro has become an
“existential crisis” for Europe and places much of the blame
on one person: Angela Merkel.  The German chancellor’s insistence on fiscal discipline
amid high unemployment threatens to hurl the euro region into
“a vicious deflationary debt trap,” he writes in this
collection of previously published essays. His warning brings a
timely reminder that  Greece ’s latest bailout won’t quell the
economic and political forces pulling the Old World apart.  “Germany cannot be blamed for wanting a strong currency
and a balanced budget,” Soros says. “But it can be blamed for
imposing its predilection on other countries that have different
needs and preferences -- like Procrustes, who forced other
people to lie in his bed and stretched them or cut off their
legs to make them fit.”  The articles gathered here were written mostly for the
Financial Times and the New York Review of Books. Taken
together, they constitute what Soros calls “a real-time
experiment,” his attempt over the past four years to influence
policies on the fly. The authorities didn’t follow his advice,
he says, though he surely helped shape the debate.  ‘Failed Philosopher’  Soros has called himself “a failed philosopher.” He’s
actually a rarer species: A pathologist of market linkages and
psychology -- a man who quickly grasps how an unhealthy growth
of credit here will morph into a morbid bubble there. His
diagnoses are clear, whether he’s describing  commodity index
investing  or former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson ’s
flawed plan to purchase distressed mortgage-backed securities.  He tends to propose treatments that his patients reject. A
prime example is his call to transform the European Financial
Stability Facility into a common treasury for the nations that
share the euro. That’s a nonstarter politically, as is his
sensible pitch for joint euro bonds.  European leaders have also rejected a subtler Soros
proposal: to have the EFSF insure the  European Central Bank 
against the solvency risk on ECB purchases of new Italian or
Spanish bonds from commercial banks. The ECB instead initiated
longer-term refinancing operations, which offer lenders three-
year loans at 1 percent annual interest.  Carry Trade  Bankers view these loans as  Europe ’s answer to quantitative
easing. Yet it amounts to a profitable and almost riskless carry
trade, as the man with the palindromic surname says. The
facility allows Italian and Spanish banks to borrow low to buy
their own governments’ higher-yielding bonds. It also leaves
countries and their banks “ hovering on the edge  of a potential
insolvency,” as he wrote in a recent column.  The weakness of this book is that we’ve heard all this
before. Reading these pages reminded me of listening to my
father gripe about inflation in the 1970s. Though I knew he was
right, I sometimes longed to change the subject.  ‘Rashomon’ Economics  Six years after the U.S. housing bubble  began to burst ,
economists, journalists and investors keep churning out books
about what happened and why. Soros views the crisis as a
continuation of a “super bubble” that began in 1980, when
“market fundamentalism became the dominant creed of the
world.” Yet there are plenty of other time frames and causes to
consider.  In a recent  paper , economist Andrew W. Lo of the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  compares the expanding
canon of crisis literature to Akira Kurosawa’s film
“Rashomon,” the 1950 classic in which various witnesses offer
conflicting accounts of an alleged rape and a murder in feudal
 Japan .  “Only by collecting a diverse and often mutually
contradictory set of narratives can we eventually develop a more
complete understanding of the crisis,” he says in the article,
prepared for the Journal of Economic Literature.  Lo reviews 21 books on the crisis, ranging from Paulson’s
“On the Brink” to  Joseph Stiglitz ’s “Freefall.” One of his
most disturbing conclusions: “We can’t even agree on all the
facts,” leaving little hope for building “an accurate
narrative of the crisis that stands the test of time.”  “This is,” he writes, “one of the most compelling
reasons to read more than one account of the financial crisis,
and to seek out those books that may not agree with our
preconceptions, just in case we’ve been inadvertently
misinformed.”  Amen to that. Is  Angela Merkel  listening? Is George Soros?  “Financial Turmoil in Europe and the United States” is
published by PublicAffairs (161 pages, $19.99, 13.99 pounds). To
buy this book in  North America , click here.  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 