-- South Africa’s Gordhan Says Gauteng Toll Decision Is Final
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-02-23T09:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/south-africa-s-gordhan-says-gauteng-toll-decision-is-final-2-.html
South Africa ’s decision to go ahead
with a toll road around Johannesburg is “final,” Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said, responding to public opposition
that led the government to postpone the project. The road
agency’s bonds gained.  Protests by the Congress of South African Trade Unions, the
nation’s largest labor federation and an ally of the ruling
 African National Congress , to block implementation of the levy
in Gauteng province won’t prompt the goverment to reverse the
decision, Gordhan said in a speech broadcast on SABC today.  The government will allocate the South African National
Roads Agency 5.8 billion rand ($727 million) to pay outstanding
debt, helping to lower toll fees to 30 cents a kilometer (0.6
mile) from an original proposal of 66 cents, Gordhan said
yesterday. Taxis and public buses will be exempt from the fees.  “Government has gone out of its way to find money it never
intended to allocate,” Gordhan said. “It is fortunate we had
the revenue we could set aside. We have a generous option on the
table.”  Sanral, as the agency is known, sold bonds in the past four
years to finance the Gauteng Freeway Improvement Project that
helped to widen, upgrade, resurface and build 185 kilometers of
roads around Johannesburg. It plans to use toll revenue to
service the debt.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to hold the agency’s 9.45
percent bonds due 2020 rather than South African government debt
narrowed four basis points, or 0.04 percentage points, to 47.3
basis points, a four-month low, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The spread has narrowed from as high as 58.9 basis
points on Dec. 12.  Frequent road users will pay a maximum toll of 550 rand a
month, while heavy vehicles can save 20 percent depending on the
time they use the road, according to the National Treasury. The
government will pass laws to give Sanral powers to enforce the
tolling system, it said.  “We’ve listened to the commuter public and now we can meet
them halfway,” Gordhan said. “The spirit of compromise must
prevail. Let’s not create an adversarial relationship.”  The road agency, which is responsible for maintaining and
expanding the nation’s 16,170 kilometers of freeways, will spend
38 billion rand in the year through March 2013 on new roads and
maintenance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Andres R. Martinez in Cape Town at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  