-- Spanish Bonds Rise for 6th Day on ECB; Bund Yields at 1-Week Low
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-02-23T16:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/spanish-bonds-rise-for-sixth-day-on-ecb-loans-bund-yields-at-one-week-low.html
Spanish bonds rose for a sixth day
amid optimism the  European Central Bank ’s planned loan operation
next week will ease the region’s debt crisis, boosting demand
for higher-yielding government debt.  German 10-year  yields  fell to a one-week low after the
European Commission said the euro-area economy will shrink this
year. The 10-year bonds of Greece,  Portugal ,  Austria  and France
all outperformed bunds. Spanish debt has rallied since the ECB
lent European banks 489 billion euros ($649 billion) of three-
year loans on Dec. 21. The central bank is planning another
longer-term refinancing operation at the end of this month.  “Demand for Spanish debt has been bolstered ahead of next
week’s LTRO,” said  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-income
strategist at Rabobank International in  London . “If you’re
confident the next LTRO is going to be significant, then you
would be anticipating a further compression of front-end
peripheral yields.”  The two-year Spanish yield fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.68 percent at 4:14 p.m. London time. The
3.4 percent bond due April 2014 rose 0.1, or 1 euro per 1,000-
euro face amount, to 101.490.  Spanish 10-year yields slipped two basis points to 5.07
percent. The additional yield, or spread, investors demand to
hold the securities over bunds narrowed one basis point to 318
basis points.  Spanish, Italian Banks  Spanish and Italian banks will be the biggest users of next
week’s loans, according to a report by Morgan Stanley published
yesterday.  “Much of the proceeds will be ‘parked’ or invested in
 government securities ,” Huw van Steenis, an analyst at Morgan
Stanley in London wrote, adding that under the bank’s base case
scenario Spanish banks alone could help  Spain  to fully fund
itself this year.  The 17-nation euro-bloc economy will contract 0.3 percent,
the commission said, abandoning a November forecast of 0.5
percent growth. The downgrade was mainly due to projected
contractions of 1.3 percent in  Italy  and 1 percent in Spain.  The report came after the Ifo institute reported its
 business climate index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives,
climbed to 109.6 from 108.3 in January. That’s the highest
reading since July and more than the 108.8 median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Growth Outlook  “While improvements in the Ifo survey are obviously a
positive, so long as concerns remain over the growth outlook and
longer term sustainability of public finances of many euro-zone
states it’s unlikely to be sufficient to alter the safe-haven
appeal of bunds,” said  Brian Barry , an analyst at Investec Bank
Plc in London.  German 10-year bunds were little changed, with the yield at
1.89 percent, after sliding to 1.88 percent, the lowest level
since Feb. 16.  The IMF will seek to keep its holdings of Greek securities
under a new bailout package at 30 billion euros, including money
still owed from a previous loan, an official said yesterday. The
organization has yet to announce its share of the 130 billion-
euro bailout package for  Greece  agreed on two days ago.  Bank Writedowns  The Greek March 2012 note rose to 25.75 percent of face
value. It traded at 42 percent on Feb. 16.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Commerzbank AG of Germany
and France’s  Credit Agricole  SA all took writedowns on their
Greek government debt two days after Greece’s private creditors
agreed to a debt swap, paving the way for its second bailout.  RBS, Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, posted a
wider-than-expected full-year loss after taking a sovereign-debt
impairment of 1.1 billion pounds ($1.73 billion). The bank said
it reduced its exposure to Greek, Italian, Irish, Portuguese and
Spanish government debt by 90 percent last year.  Commerzbank, Germany’s second-biggest lender, booked a 700
million-euro writedown on Greek debt in the fourth quarter and
Credit Agricole,  France ’s third-largest bank, reported a
quarterly loss after booking 220 million euros in impairments on
Greek debt.  LCH Clearnet Ltd.,  Europe ’s biggest clearinghouse,
increased the discount it applies for some Spanish, Italian and
Belgian government bonds when they are used as collateral by its
customers.  Portuguese Volatility  Belgian 10-year bonds fell, pushing the yield up four basis
points to 3.67 percent. The yield on Italian debt of a similar
maturity slipped three basis points to 5.54 percent.  Volatility on Portuguese debt was the highest in euro-area
markets after Greece, according to measures of 10-year bonds,
two- and 10-year yield spreads and credit-default swaps. The
change in the spread was 1.8 times the 90-day average.  Portuguese 10-year bonds snapped a two-day decline, pushing
the yield down nine basis points to 12.46 percent. Two-year note
yields dropped, sliding 35 basis points to 12.60 percent.  Germany ’s bonds have handed investors a loss of 0.2 percent
this year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
debt returned 2.1 percent, according to the indexes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  