-- Stanford Accountant Witness Says No Sign of Fraud in Financier’s Reports
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-23T22:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/stanford-accountant-witness-says-no-sign-of-fraud-in-financier-s-reports.html
Morris Hollander, an accountant
testifying at R. Allen Stanford’s trial, told a jury he saw no
sign of fraud in annual reports issued by the financier’s
Antigua bank.  “I see no evidence that indicates there was any fraudulent
financial reporting contained in those reports,” Hollander said
during his second day of testimony for the defense in the trial
at the U.S. courthouse in Houston.  Hollander, a  partner  in the international accounting firm
Marcum Group LLP, told the court while his testimony was based
on those reports, he hasn’t seen underlying accountant work
papers from which financial figures in those reports were
derived.  Stanford, 61, is accused of leading a $7 billion investor
fraud scheme centered on the sale of certificates of deposit
from the Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd. He faces
mail fraud and wire fraud charges carrying maximum sentences of
20 years’ imprisonment if he is found guilty. He is also accused
of obstructing a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission probe.  The financier, who has been on trial since Jan. 23, is
fighting a cold that has forced the early adjournment of the
trial each of the past two days. Stanford has been in court for
the entirety of today’s proceedings.  Challenged Testimony  Federal prosecutors, led by Andrew Warren, repeatedly
challenged Marcum’s testimony today, prompting U.S. District
Judge David Hittner to reiterate that Hollander’s recitation of
figures from Stanford financial records are admissible only for
the fact they were said and not for their objective
truthfulness.  Still, based upon a consolidated statement of Stanford
business holdings in December 2008, the financier held more
than $9 billion in assets, Hollander testified.  Warren greeted Hollander on cross-examination late today
with the question, “Hypothetically, if I tell you I have a
trillion dollars in my pocket, how much money do I have in my
pocket?”  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 