-- Pensions Find Private Equity Bites as Blackstone Cuts Job
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-02-23T20:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/state-pensions-find-private-equity-bites-as-blackstone-cuts-jobs.html
Shirley Kimber walked off the
 production line  from her $17.56-an-hour job at a Birds Eye Foods
plant in Fulton, New York, for the last time in November.  The new owners, Pinnacle Foods Group LLC, a company held by
the private equity firm  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , closed the factory
and fired 270 workers. Kimber, 64, got eight weeks severance for
her 12 years on the job and lives with her 37-year-old
unemployed daughter in the rust-belt town of about 12,000,
northwest of Syracuse.  “They just used us. That’s exactly what they did,” Kimber
said. “And then they kicked us to the curb.”  While the closing killed union jobs, it may also help
protect the retirement benefits that organized labor bargained
for on behalf of public employees.  In addition to Blackstone, the world’s largest buyout firm,
 New York  State’s two public employee pensions and four New York
City pensions stand to gain from the drive for higher profits at
Pinnacle foods. The retirement funds poured $920 million into
the $20 billion Blackstone fund that owns Pinnacle, which took
over Birds Eye in 2009.  Public pension funds -- seeking to boost returns after
failing to secure the 8 percent annual investment earnings
needed to pay benefits for teachers, police officers and other
civil servants -- are the biggest source of cash for private
equity firms.  Faster Pace  Companies owned by New York-based Blackstone added jobs at
a faster pace than the  U.S. economy  for the past two years, said
 Peter Rose , a spokesman for the firm. Private equity’s
investment returns “are one of the few ways that pension funds
can help keep the promises that they have made to their
retirees,” he said.  Pinnacle Foods closed the Fulton plant to cut
transportation costs by moving operations closer to suppliers,
said Michelle Weese, a spokeswoman for the company.  While firms such as Blackstone and Bain Capital LLC, co-
founded by Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , have
drawn scrutiny for their paring of jobs and the low tax rates
enjoyed by executives, the role of taxpayer money in financing
their acquisitions has received less notice.  By September 2011, public pensions with at least $1 billion
in assets had an average of 11 percent of their money in private
equity, more than triple their investments a decade earlier,
according to Wilshire Associates, a  Santa Monica , California-
based consulting firm.  Rising Investment  Such funds have about $400 billion with private equity, 29
percent of the total, according to Prequin Ltd., a London-based
private equity research firm. That’s more than twice what was
put in by private pension funds, the next biggest investor.  Public pensions “have been the investors that have really
fueled private equity’s rise,” said Steven Davidoff, a
professor of law and finance at Ohio State University’s Moritz
College of Law in Columbus, Ohio. “For those people who
complain about private equity, the money is really coming from
pension funds.”  Private equity firms buy companies and seek to trim costs,
improve operations, boost profits and resell them. The takeovers
are typically financed by debt taken on by the purchased
companies.  The business has been drawn into the presidential contest
as Romney parried attacks from Republican rivals who suggested
he built a fortune of as much as $250 million with takeovers
that cost workers their jobs. He has disputed this
characterization.  Private equity executives, including Blackstone managing
director and Pinnacle Foods director Prakash Melwani, have
helped stock Romney’s campaign war chests. Melwani declined to
comment.  Mayor Objects  Fulton Mayor Ronald Woodward, a Republican, said the Birds
Eye takeover has devastated his town, adding that he is troubled
to learn that New York pension money helped finance the
acquisition.  “Isn’t that a slap in the face to the people in Fulton
that are losing their jobs and paying the salaries of those
union workers and they’re using their investments there,”
Woodward said. “It’s like biting the hand that feeds you.”  Her severance exhausted, Kimber now lives off unemployment
benefits of $1,620 a month, plus $100 a month in pension
payments, she said. She pays 22 percent of that for health
insurance. Her daughter, also named Shirley, has a biology
degree but can’t find a job using that specialty. To make a few
extra dollars, she babysits and sells books online.  Executive Compensation  Robert Gamgort is chief executive officer of Parsippany,
New Jersey-based Pinnacle Foods, which also makes Duncan Hines
cake mix, Vlasic Pickles and Hungry Man frozen dinners.  Gamgort was awarded compensation valued at $5.5 million in
2010 and $11.6 million in 2009. Sara Genster Robling, head of
the Birds Eye division, got pay packages worth $1.5 million in
2010 and $2.1 million the previous year. Most of the pay was in
company stock. Gamgort and Robling weren’t available for
comment, she said.  After the collapse of 1990s Internet bubble left pensions
reeling from investment losses, state and local government funds
poured money into private equity firms. The financial crisis of
2008 and subsequent recession left U.S. state public pensions
$694.2 billion short of having enough assets to pay future
benefits by the end of their 2010 budget years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Higher Returns  Private equity deals promised higher returns than stocks
and bonds. The 15-year median return on stocks for public
pension funds with more than $1 billion assets, before fees, is
5.5 percent annualized as of Dec. 31, 2011, while the median
return for private equity in that time period is 9.8 percent,
according to the Wilshire Trust Universe Comparison Service.  The deals have served pensions well. New York state’s
teachers pension’s private equity investments delivered an
annual rate of return of 11.8 percent as of June 30, 2011.  New
York City ’s private equity investments in four of its five
pension funds have returns ranging from 9.2 percent to 11.1
percent.  Blackstone’s 2006 buyout fund that owns Pinnacle had a 2
percent annual rate of return through June 30, 2011, according
to a report from the New York City teachers’ pension fund. A
2003 Blackstone fund in which the teachers invested has returned
41 percent, its top-performing private equity investment.  Double-digit private-equity returns help save taxpayers
money. For workers and the acquired companies, the benefits can
be harder to discern.  Private Equity Study  A study led by the University of Chicago’s Steven Davis,
based on 3,200 private equity deals from 1980 to 2005 and
published in September, sought to quantify the impact. It found
that employment at acquired companies dropped 6 percent in the
next five years relative to stand-alone peers as they shuttered
lagging businesses.  Still, the companies also added workers by opening new
business lines and through acquisitions. The study concluded
that such deals accelerated the “creative destruction” of
jobs, with a “modest” impact on total payrolls.  “Private equity investors are remorseless in their
perspective on business,” said Robert Bruner, the dean of the
University of Virginia’s Darden School of Business. “That is a
manifestation of the rigors of the capitalist system,” he said.
“It accelerates the process.”  Eight Weeks Severance  Rose Pitcher, 50, experienced that first-hand. After
working 25 years at the Birds Eye plant in Fulton, she wrapped
up her last shift in November, with eight weeks severance, as
Pinnacle moved the plant’s jobs to  Wisconsin  and Minnesota.
Other employers in the area, like an apple-packing plant in
Oswego, pay less than half the $17 an hour she was making
overseeing the machine sealing packages of Voila! ready-made
meals at Birds Eye.  “There just doesn’t seem to be anything out there,” she
said.  Blackstone says it has a record of boosting employment
overall. In 2011, Blackstone’s portfolio companies added 4.6
percent to their payrolls by creating new jobs, rather than
through acquisitions, and increased them 3 percent in 2010, said
Rose, the company spokesman. That outpaced job growth in the
economy, he said.  ‘Unwilling to Invest’  “Private equity is a vital source of capital to grow and
strengthen companies where public capital cannot or is unwilling
to invest,” said Rose.  New York Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli , the sole trustee of
New York’s $140 billion retirement fund, declined to comment.
New York City Comptroller  John Liu  declined to comment. John Cardillo, a spokesman for New York state’s Teachers’ Retirement
System, declined to comment.  Drivers coming into Fulton are greeted by the red-brick
Nestle chocolate factory, where for 103 years the company made
condensed milk, semi-sweet morsels and Crunch Bars. It shut down
in 2003.  The Nestle factory employed 1,500 people at its height. In
1994, Miller Brewing also shut down a plant just outside of
town, putting 900 people out of work.  A couple of years after Miller shut its operations, city
officials took down signs on Routes 481, 48 and 3, the
thoroughfares entering Fulton, that read: “City with a
Future.”  Far Cry  It’s a far cry from the 1930s, when the New York Sun wrote
a story about Fulton entitled “The Mystery of Fulton, N.Y., the
City the Depression Missed.”  Then, factories powered by
electricity generated by the Oswego River, which bisects the
town, churned out knives, textiles and shotguns. The Fort
Stanwix Canning Co. opened a plant in Fulton in 1902. In 1938 it
began packaging Birds Eye vegetables.  The Birds Eye plant had survived during the past two
decades as it passed from General Foods Corp. to Philip Morris
Cos. to Dean Foods Inc. In 1998, Dean Foods sold it to Agrilink
Foods Inc. for $400 million. In 2002, Agrilink sold a majority
stake in the company for $175 million to Vestar Capital
Partners, a private equity firm where Melwani was a managing
director. Melwani is now at Blackstone.  Vestar transformed the company. In 2006, it shifted focus
to brand-named foods and developing new product lines. It
announced that it would jettison most of its non-brand frozen
food businesses, affecting five facilities, including three in
western New York, that employed about 740. In 2007, Birds Eye
borrowed money to pay Vestar and Agrilink a one-time $298.2
million dividend, according to corporate filings.  Vestar  Vestar turned Birds Eye into a smaller, profitable company.
By 2009, Birds Eye earned $54 million on sales of $936 million,
compared with a $131 million loss and sales of $1 billion in
2002. Its workforce had shrunk to 1,700 from 4,000, filings
show.  In November 2009, Pinnacle Foods, owned by Blackstone,
agreed to buy Birds Eye for $1.3 billion. The purchase was
financed by $1.15 billion of debt. Blackstone contributed $260
million in equity. Carol Makovich, a Vestar spokeswoman,
declined to comment.  Blackstone affiliates were paid $17 million in acquisition
fees for arranging the Birds Eye deal. Pinnacle has also paid
Blackstone at least $15.5 million in management fees since it
was taken over by the firm in 2007, according to company
filings.  Under Blackstone, Birds Eye’s sales and profits have risen.
In the quarter that ended in September, sales were $248 million,
an 11.2 percent increase from the year earlier. The growth was
driven by expanded distribution and demand for new products, in
addition to lower new product distribution expenses, the company
said in a filing.  22 Years  Charles Murphy, 66, had worked at the Birds Eye plant in
Fulton through a series of owners for 22 years before retiring
at the end of 2010. He said employees were optimistic that the
factory would survive.  In January 2010, U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer , the New York
Democrat, held a press conference with workers in Fulton, saying
he would keep pressuring the company until all the jobs were
safe. Schumer said he called  Stephen Schwarzman , Blackstone’s
chairman and co-founder, and asked him to spare the factory.  “No one expected that place to close,” said Murphy.  Cutting Jobs  Then Pinnacle started cutting jobs. In mid-2010, it began
closing down the Rochester, New York headquarters where 200
worked. That December it announced the closure of a Tacoma,
Washington, plant that employed 160 and would shift production
to  Iowa .  On April 13, 2011, a Wednesday, employees coming to work at
the Fulton plant saw a makeshift sign taped to a window: A
mandatory meeting for all employees would be held at the Fulton
War Memorial, the town’s exhibition hall and gymnasium on the
15th.  A Birds Eye lawyer told those gathered that the company
would close the Fulton plant and move some of the jobs to
Wisconsin and Minnesota.  Paul Robinson , a 59 year-old who ran packing machines
remembered asking managers, “What can we do to keep the plant
open?”  Nothing, he said Pinnacle managers replied. “They had
their minds made up.”  Wisconsin had offered Pinnacle $1.3 million in incentives
to shift production to the state. Worker’s compensation costs
were also lower -- an average of $1,100 per employee in
Wisconsin compared with $12,000 in New York, Mayor Woodward
said.  ‘Synergies’  While new jobs were added elsewhere, the closures cut the
Birds Eye’s payroll by about 300, or 17 percent, as it
eliminated more jobs than were added elsewhere, according to
Weese, the Pinnacle spokeswoman. She said such costs are common
after corporate mergers.  “Synergies are true with every deal. It’s not unique to
this particular deal,” Weese said. “It’s less expensive to run
one company than two.”  Not all public pensions have stood by as a private equity
firms managing their money announced job cuts.  In 2010, after hearing that clothing-company  Hugo Boss  AG
was planning to close a factory in a Cleveland suburb where it
manufactured suits, threatening the jobs of 300 workers,  Ohio ’s
public employee pension fund contacted Hugo Boss’s owner,
London-based private equity firm Permira Advisers LLP.  Ohio’s Public Employees Retirement System had invested $80
million in the Permira fund that owned Hugo Boss. After writing
to Permira and not getting a response, the pension fund followed
up with another letter saying it would “think long and hard”
about investing any more money with Permira, said Hugh Quill, a
former Ohio pension trustees. The plant was never closed.  ‘Pain and Suffering’  “These guys could have cared less about a plant in
Cleveland, Ohio, but they did care about not having
institutional investors for their next $500 million offering,”
Quill said. “I think it was the right thing to do, given the
amount of pain and suffering that was going on in the state.”  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System  and
public pensions from Maryland and  Pennsylvania , which invested
in Permira, also lobbied the firm. So did New York City’s
pension funds.  “New York’s pension funds do not wish to be investing in
job loss or in a global ‘race to the bottom,’” New York City
Comptroller Liu wrote in a letter to Permira.  Chris Davison, director of communications for Permira,
declined to comment.  Medical Leave  In Fulton, Charles Murphy’s wife, Donna, had been out on
medical leave since October 2010 when the Birds Eye closure was
announced. Still struggling with  lung cancer , she lost her job
when she couldn’t return to work for the factory’s last two
months. That meant she didn’t get any severance pay. She worked
there for 25 years.  Pinnacle’s Weese said details about medical leave and
severance pay were worked out in negotiations with the
employees’ union, Workers United Local 1822.  “You spend that many years devoting your life to the
company, coming in to work every day, and they think nothing of
you,” said Murphy, who lives in nearby Oswego. “This hurt a
lot of people’s livelihoods.”  Fulton mayor Woodward, who was a maintenance supervisor
with Nestle when the plant shut in 2003, said his story is
another sign of the times.  “What you’re doing by doing that -- you are systematically
eliminating the middle class,” he said. “You’re going to be
rich or you’re going to be poor. There’s no in between.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  