-- Stockton Said to Plan Default Vote as California City May Face Bankruptcy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-02-23T21:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/stockton-said-to-plan-default-vote-as-california-city-may-face-bankruptcy.html
The City Council of  Stockton, (3654MF) 
California, will be asked to vote next week to default on some
of its bonds and take the first steps toward bankruptcy,
according to a person familiar with the council’s agenda.  City Manager Bob Deis has told council members that he
intends to put an item on their agenda for a Feb. 28 meeting
that would ask them to approve mediation with creditors as the
first step required under a new state law before the city can
seek bankruptcy, according to the person, who wasn’t authorized
to speak about the matter because it is still confidential.  Deis also will ask the council to agree to default on
municipal bonds beginning March 1, to suspend cash payments to
employees who’ve accumulated unused vacation and sick leave, and
to begin an investigation into the causes of the city’s fiscal
issues, the person said.  Stockton, an agricultural center of about 292,000, is
fighting to avert  California ’s biggest bankruptcy since Vallejo
in 2008. The city has shrunk its payroll, including a quarter of
the roughly 425-member police force. Twice since 2010 it has
declared a state of fiscal emergency to force cuts on public
employees.  Deis has scheduled a meeting with reporters tomorrow to
“provide background information and answer questions from the
media related to the city’s fiscal status,” according to a
statement from his office distributed today. The briefing at
 City Hall , which would normally be closed tomorrow, is to
prepare for the Feb. 28 meeting, according to the statement.  Deis and members of the City Council didn’t respond to
repeated telephone calls for comment today.  --
Editors: Pete Young, Ted Bunker  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net 
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net . 