-- Sugar Premium Tumbles After India Sets Guidelines for Exports
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-02-23T17:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/sugar-premium-tumbles-after-india-sets-guidelines-for-exports.html
The premium for March-delivery raw
sugar traded in  New York  to May futures tumbled from today’s
highs after India, the world’s second-largest producer, set
guidelines for exports of 1 million metric tons of sugar.  Raw sweetener for delivery in March was 1.05 cents a pound
higher than the May contract by 11:19 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S.
in New York, from today’s high of 1.46 cents a pound, data on
Bloomberg show. The increase in the price gap had fueled
speculation about strong interest by traders in taking delivery
when the March raw sugar futures contract expires at the end of
this month. The price difference between the two contracts was
1.05 cents a pound by the close yesterday.  India  approved additional exports of 1 million tons, a
government official said Feb. 7. Guidelines on exports were
published today. Mills have until April 7 to seek export
permits, the Food Ministry said in a statement on its website
today.  Brazil  is the biggest producer.  “With fresh export licenses now approved, we expect fresh
offers of Indian raws and whites in the market,” Peter de Klerk, an analyst at broker and researcher C. Czarnikow Sugar
Futures Ltd., said by phone from  London .  The exports came on top of 1 million tons of shipments
approved in November last year. The country, the world’s biggest
consumer, will have a domestic surplus of 3 million to 4 million
tons in the 2011-12 season started in October, Abinash Verma,
director general of the Indian Sugar Mills Association, said at
a conference in Dubai on Feb. 5.  Market speculation is that almost 1 million tons of sugar
may be delivered, Naim Beydoun, a broker at Swiss Sugar Brokers
in Rolle,  Switzerland , said in a report dated yesterday. The
delivery may total 700,000 tons, Luiz Carlos dos Santos Jr.,
head of sugar brokerage and operations at SA Commodities in
Santos, Brazil, said in a report last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 