-- Super Commuters Surge as Stuck Homeowners Fly
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2012-02-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/super-commuters-surge-as-stuck-homeowners-fly-greyhound-routes.html
Most Monday mornings, Karl Sparre is
at  Boston ’s Logan Airport getting orange juice and a muffin
before a 7:20 a.m. flight. By 10 a.m. he’s at his desk in
Philadelphia. On Friday, he’s back home in Boston by 7:30 p.m.  Sparre’s 600-mile (965-kilometer) odyssey of buses, trains,
planes and automobiles inaugurates him into a growing group of
executives. Researchers such as Mitchell Moss, an urban policy
and planning professor at New York University, call them “super
commuters”: men and women who have a residence in one city and
work in another far away, often 100 miles or more.  From 2002 to 2009, the number and concentration of super
commuters grew in eight of the 10 largest U.S. metropolitan
areas, according to an analysis by Moss and others at NYU’s
 Rudin Center  for Transportation Policy & Management. In the area
surrounding Philadelphia, those workers rose 50 percent. In the
Houston area, they almost doubled, Moss’s research shows.  “We have people here who are living in Chicago, living in
 Connecticut  and flying here because their families are there and
they want to keep them intact,” said Sparre, 56, vice president
for global talent acquisition at Aramark Corp. and one of a
small number of executives at the Philadelphia-based food
services company with an extended commute.  A shortage of qualified workers -- particularly women --
and a growing reluctance of many employees to sell homes that
have lost value mean that companies have to support long-
distance commuting in order to hire the best candidates, saidJudee von Seldeneck, founder of executive recruiting company
Diversified Search in Philadelphia. With unemployment still
high, more workers are willing to suffer the commute, too.  Communication Tools  The Internet also helps because workers can keep in touch
using their BlackBerrys, iPhones, iPads and other devices during
the commute and away from the office, she said.  “The tools we have to communicate make it a whole lot
easier; you pretty much just need to live in a city with an
airport,” said von Seldeneck. “Companies recognize they have
to be more flexible. They are broadening the candidate pool you
can look at.”  The super commuter trend is going to continue and it’s
probably going to grow, said Moss, who has advised  New York  City
and the state of New York on transportation  issues . Dual-worker
households often mean spouses who live in the same city and work
in different places, he said.  “It’s really a very, very big, but dispersed trend,” said
Moss. “As organizations become aware of how important it is to
have the best talent, it will only make them more flexible.”  Plane, Train, Automobile  For Sparre, the commute only begins when he lands at
Philadelphia International Airport and hops the 40-minute train
to Aramark’s 32-floor downtown office. The rest of the week he
alternates between a train and his Lexus sport-utility vehicle
to commute from his sister’s house in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
which often takes an hour.  It’s a far cry from the 30-minute drive he used to make on
back roads to get to  Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF) ’s suburban Boston
campus. He  lost his Sun Life position  in a round of budget cuts
and after failing to find work nearby for many months, took the
Philadelphia job about a year ago.  He’s one of an estimated 42,100 super commuters in the
Philadelphia-Camden-Vineland corridor, according to NYU.  The life of a super commuter isn’t always easy, Sparre
said. He’s texting more with his wife during the day and they
try to do videoconferences using Skype a few times a week. He
also texts frequently with his daughter, who is a sophomore in
high school. His 25-year-old son has a job in Boston.  ‘Work at It’  From a financial perspective, his $129 round-trip ticket on
 Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  is about to become a $220 flight with  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  because Southwest is ending service between
Boston and Philadelphia. He pays his own commuting expenses.  “You have to work at it,” said Sparre, who added that his
wife of 17 years will probably move to Philadelphia once their
daughter graduates high school and heads to college. “Really
all you have is weekends and there’s never really enough time on
the weekend. The relationship aspect should never be
underestimated.”  Farther north, in the area around  Manhattan , super
commuting grew 60 percent from 2002, the NYU data show. Tom Kowaleski, who retired last year as head of communications for
Bayerische Moteren Werke AG’s North American unit, has been
among the regular Monday morning super commuters arriving in New
York for several years. He’s still making the trip regularly as
a consultant.  New Jersey Apartment  Kowaleski, who also is a former head of communications at
General Motors Corp., flies each Monday from  Detroit  to the New
York area to get to BMW’s Woodcliff Lake,  New Jersey , office. He
spends the week at an apartment he rents in Park Ridge, New
Jersey. His wife, a volunteer docent at the  Detroit Institute of
Arts , stays in their Birmingham, Michigan, home.  During a break in a recent conference, Kowaleski said he
was in a group with a trio of commuters who recounted their
regular commutes from Detroit to jobs in New York,  Chicago  and
 San Francisco  and another with a New York to Kansas City
itinerary.  Companies have been more flexible about super commutes
since the disruption of the recession and the collapse of the
housing market in many cities, said Richard Marshall, who leads
the recruiting of public relations executives at Los Angeles-
based  Korn/Ferry International (KFY) , the largest publicly traded
executive recruiting company.  ‘More Flexible’  “Candidates are less inclined to want to uproot their
families and with the real estate situation, companies, frankly,
are more flexible because they don’t want to get stuck with
properties candidates are upside-down in,” said Marshall, who
is himself a super commuter, traveling to  New York City  each
week from the Atlanta area for four years.  In Marshall’s Roswell,  Georgia , subdivision, a neighbor
three doors down commutes to  Florida  and another travels to
Boston, among a handful of others among the 60 to 80 homes.
Areas such as the Northeast corridor are pretty much all
connected with a two- or three-hour commute now, he said.  “It’s less important you’re standing up and saluting the
rest of the troops at 8:30 in the morning,” he said.
“Companies need to be more open to it to attract the best
talent.”  Elena West, 45, has been commuting between Phoenix and San
Francisco weekly for seven years. The marketing chief for Robert
Half International Inc. flies out on Sunday afternoon and
returns to Phoenix each Friday. For lodging, she rents a house
in Menlo Park,  California , a five-minute drive from the staffing
service company’s headquarters, she said.  Top-Five Market  About 131,000 people, or 8.6 percent of the workforce in
the Maricopa County area that surrounds Phoenix, meet the
definition of super commuters, Moss’s data show. That makes it
one of the top five U.S. markets for the flexible workforce.  West’s husband started a financial planning business in
Phoenix and even after accounting for the Menlo Park house rent
and the $250- to $300-a-week flights on US Airways -- which she
pays out of pocket -- it’s still cheaper than relocating and
buying a home in the San Francisco area, she said.  “We’ve always had a commuting sort of relationship,” West
said of her husband. They don’t have children and when she was
based in  Europe  for Robert Half, her husband stayed back in the
U.S. and visited overseas.  “Companies are getting more and more comfortable with this
trend as long as you’re at the office when you need to be,”
West said. She uses an iPad and Skype to keep in contact and her
location is often irrelevant because she’s on the phone “from
7 a.m. to 5 p.m, anyway.”  Breaking With Tradition  One of the biggest surprises is how quickly super commuters
are spreading outside of the traditional corridors of the
Northeast and West Coast, Moss said. The Seattle area posted a
60 percent increase and the Houston area led all markets, almost
doubling from 2002 to 2009.  Super commuters are not just elite business travelers,
Moss’s research shows. The average age of super commuters is
younger than the total workforce and less affluent, making up a
higher percentage of people younger than 29 years old than the
general  labor force . The group is getting older, and the higher-
income workers are growing faster than the lower-income group,
the data show.  The highest concentration of super commuters is in  Texas ,
according to Moss’s research. About 13 percent of the workforce
in the Houston and Dallas areas now meet the definition, the
report shows -- about 427,000 people, many traveling the 240-
mile route between those two cities.  Texas Hotbed  That’s one reason Southwest Airlines can run 25 flights a
day between Houston and Dallas, said Alicia Hasell, managing
director at executive search company Boyden World Corp. in
Houston, who has also noticed the surge in super commuters as
she helps companies find new executives.  “Southwest runs like a Greyhound bus between the two
cities,” said Hasell, who said she knows executives who commute
from Chicago to Houston each week as part of their normal work
arrangement.  Rob Franklin eschews the airport for a 170-mile drive
starting 3:30 a.m. each Monday in his 2006 Honda Accord from his
home in Austin,  Texas (USUSTX) , to his job as a compliance manager in the
financial services industry in Houston. Sometimes he catches an
hour of sleep in the parking lot in his car after arriving.  Franklin lost his job in Austin and after he found the new
job in Houston, couldn’t sell his home, he said.  “It can be difficult, but you are just trying to pay the
mortgage,” said Franklin, 40, who has a wife and two young
children. “My daughter turned 8 years old on Monday and I was
here in Houston. She was crying.”  He has an apartment in Houston during the week and carts
clothes and items back and forth in laundry baskets and coolers
in his car. He usually gets home on Friday night in time to put
the kids to bed, Franklin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Green in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  