-- Suzlon Bonds Slide Most Since 2009 as Default Risk Increases: India Credit
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2012-02-23T10:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/suzlon-bonds-slide-most-since-2009-as-default-risk-increases-india-credit.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ’s convertible
bonds are falling at the fastest pace since 2009 after India’s
biggest wind-turbine maker signaled it will fall short of funds
to repay debt maturing this year.  Prices on the $35.6 million 7.5 percent notes due in June
fell 16 percent this month, driving yields up by 82 percentage
points to 119 percent, according to indications from Nomura
Holdings Inc. The debt fell 5 percent, lifting the yield to 82.3
percent, prices from Sun Global Investments Ltd. show. Quotes
from Citigroup Inc. show a yield of 74.95 percent. Yields on the
2013 non-convertible bonds of  Korea ’s Unison Co. slid 15 basis
points to 7.6 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Suzlon is exploring options including asset sales to meet
$569 million in bond redemptions this year as losses widen,
Chairman  Tulsi Tanti  said Feb. 13. Indian companies may default
on 20 percent of $7 billion in dollar-denominated convertible
bond payments due in 2012, according to  Fitch Ratings , as the
slowest economic growth since 2009 erodes earnings.  “Suzlon has indicated they don’t have the money to repay
the bonds and that they are exploring alternatives which to us
as investors is a bad sign,” Raj Kothari, a London-based
convertible-debt trader at Sun Global Investments, said in an
interview yesterday. “When they raise a question about being
able to repay in June, then there’s definitely a cloud of doubt
over whether they’ll come through in October.”  The Pune, India-based company may face a slowdown in orders
due to the sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe , where it gets more
than 50 percent of its contracts, according to Mumbai-based
Alchemy Share & Stock Brokers Pvt. Wind turbine makers worldwide
are struggling with narrowing margins after reducing prices to
compete for orders as U.S. and European governments cut clean-
energy incentives to curb budget deficits.  Widening Losses  Losses at the turbine maker widened to 2.86 billion rupees
($58 million) in the three months ended Dec. 31, the most in
five quarters, compared with a median estimate of analysts for a
loss of 625 million rupees in a Bloomberg News survey. That
prompted Suzlon’s auditors to underscore the challenge faced by
the firm in raising funds to redeem the convertible bonds,
according to a company statement on Feb. 11.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S of Denmark, the biggest turbine
maker, announced a loss in 2011 that was four times wider than
expected on Feb. 8. Sinovel Wind Group Co.,  China ’s biggest
supplier, said Jan. 30 it expects 2011 earnings to fall by more
than 50 percent.  ‘Various Options’  Suzlon’s bonds are set to miss their conversion into equity
following a 45 percent slide in the  shares  in the past year,
when the BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  lost 3.8 percent. Conversion
prices for the bonds range between 76.68 and 97.26 rupees,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Suzlon’s share was at
28 rupees today in Mumbai.  The company is also due to start this year principal
payments on 100 billion rupees of loans refinanced in 2010. In
2014, the company faces $90 million in convertible-debt
repayments, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Given the company’s improving performance, impressive
order inflow, potential collection of funds from a specific
customer, and the progress we are making with the sale of non-
core assets, we continue to believe we will meet our obligations
in full,” Suzlon said in the statement yesterday.  Suzlon plans to raise funds from customers and sale of some
“non-core assets” and through fresh borrowings, it said in an
e-mailed response to questions on Feb. 12. The Indian company
completed its acquisition of Hamburg-based Repower Systems SE in
October, allowing it to tap the German company’s 206 million
euros ($273 million) of cash.  ‘A Good Sign’  “The company is pursuing all avenues to try to repay the
bond, which is a good sign for their holders,” said Bhargav
Buddhadev, vice president at Mumbai-based Ambit Capital Pvt.
Ltd. “If they decide that avenue is leveraging or selling
equity in Repower, it could be a bad sign for equity investors
but it would make Suzlon’s bond holders happy.”  Suzlon raised 115 million pounds ($180 million) in October
selling its stake in Hansen Transmissions International NV, a
Belgium-based auto-parts manufacturer. It refinanced 100 billion
rupees in loans in 2010 with a two-year holiday on principal
repayments.  The global wind power market rose 6 percent to 41 gigawatts
last year, led by China, the Global Wind Energy Council said in
a  report  on Feb. 7. Suzlon currently has orders worth $7.5
billion, according to a Feb. 11 statement.  Higher Borrowing Costs  Suzlon’s  interest costs  rose to a record 3.58 billion
rupees last quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
after  India ’s central bank boosted its benchmark rate by an
unprecedented 3.75 percentage points between March 2010 and
October 2011. The  Reserve Bank  of India’s  repurchase rate  is
currently at 8.5 percent.  Benchmark five-year borrowing costs for  AAA rated  companies
in India climbed 63 basis points, or 0.63 percentage point, in
the past two years to 9.36 percent as the Reserve Bank tightened
monetary policy, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields on  10-year sovereign  debt rose 44 basis points in
the period to 8.22 percent. The  extra amount  sought to hold the
notes instead of  U.S. Treasuries  widened 206 basis points to
620, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield on the 8.79
percent note due November 2021 fell four basis points to 8.19
percent today, according to the central bank’s trading system.  Indian bonds returned 7.4 percent in the past 12 months,
trailing the 36.2 percent earned by Indonesian notes in the
region’s best performance, HSBC Holdings Plc data show.  Default Risk  Fitch Ratings sees “extremely high” risk of default for a
fifth of Indian convertible bonds due this year, according to a
report dated Feb. 21. Another 17 percent of the debt may need to
be reorganized, mostly by extending maturities, Amey Joshi, a
Mumbai-based analyst at Fitch, wrote in the report.  “Some of the convertible investors have purchased credit
protection measures, like credit-linked notes and credit default
swaps from various institutions including the overseas branches
of Indian banks,” Joshi wrote. This may encourage lenders to
extend credit for issuers to refinance the maturing debt.  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , India’s second-biggest
mobile-phone operator by subscribers, is due to redeem $1.18
billion of convertible notes on March 1, the company said in an
exchange filing on Feb. 16. That’s the most by any local firm
this year. The company received approval from the central bank
to fund the repayment through loans from Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd., China Development Bank Corp. and Export-
Import Bank of China, according to the statement.  Plan Unclear  Bond risk for Indian borrowers jumped 50 percent in the
past year. The average cost of credit-default swaps insuring
against non-payment by seven local issuers rose 107 basis points
to 329, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in privately
negotiated markets. The swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a nation or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements. The rupee lost 8.1 percent in the period to 49.2320
per dollar.  “There’s a lot of concern right now due to their lack of
clarity on how they plan to raise the funds necessary to meet
their liabilities,” said D. K. Aggarwal, chairman of New Delhi-
based SMC Wealth Management Services Ltd. “It will be difficult
for them to go overseas for new debt, which means we may be
looking at an asset sale at the last hour.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ; 