-- Swedish Consumer Confidence Declines as Unemployment Spreads
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-02-23T08:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/swedish-consumer-confidence-declines-as-unemployment-spreads.html
Swedish  consumer confidence 
unexpectedly dropped this month amid rising unemployment and
slowing growth in the largest Nordic economy.  The consumer confidence index fell to minus 3.2 in February
from minus 1.3 the prior month, the Stockholm-based National
 Institute of Economic Research  said today. Economists predicted
a reading of zero, according to the median of 11 forecasts in a
Bloomberg  survey . A  manufacturing confidence  index was at minus
13, compared with minus 14 last month.  “Today’s weak reading suggests that consumers’ propensity
to spend has remained low at the start of the year,” said
Andreas Jonsson, an economist at Nordea Bank AB, in a note.
“Moreover, the weak private consumption during the second half
of last year marks a weak starting point for this year and we
should therefore only expect a very modest private consumption
growth in 2012.”  The Riksbank this month cut its key rate for a second time
in as many meeting in an effort to avert a recession. Sweden’s
economy, which relies on exports for about half its output, will
slow to 0.7 percent this year from 4.5 percent in 2011, the
central bank said on Feb. 16.  Inflation (SWCPYOY)  expectations over the next 12 months eased to 2.3
percent in February from 2.7 percent the previous month, the
institute said. The Riksbank targets 2 percent inflation.  Swedish unemployment rose more than estimated last month, a
report showed yesterday. The non-seasonally adjusted
unemployment rate, based on a survey of about 29,500 people,
rose to 8 percent from 7.1 percent in December, Stockholm-based
 Statistics Sweden  said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  