-- Swedish Government Ready to Aid Corporate Bond Market Drive
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-02-23T12:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/swedish-government-ready-to-aid-corporate-bond-market-drive.html
Sweden ’s government said it’s ready
to help the financial industry create a bigger corporate  bond
market  as companies struggle to find alternative funding sources
to compensate for a lack of bank credit.  “It would be good if we in Sweden took more steps toward a
larger, more transparent corporate debt market,” Peter Norman,
financial markets minister, said in an interview in  Stockholm .
“The financial industry has made a lot of money by trading
equities and government debt so there’s been no real drive” to
expand in other markets, he said.  Swedish companies have relied on banks for about 80 percent
of their funding, versus 30 percent for U.S. firms, according to
Mats Carlsson, the head of investment bank Pareto Ohman AB. With
the country’s lenders facing some of the world’s toughest
capital rules from next year, bank financing is becoming more
expensive. That’s putting pressure on companies to look
elsewhere for funds.  Finding investors may prove difficult, according to Daniel Sachs, chief executive officer at Proventus Capital Partners, a
private firm that invests in bonds and loans. He says Sweden
lacks liquidity, transparency and standardization in corporate
bonds to attract more investors.  Sachs teamed up two years ago with former Nasdaq OMX
Stockholm Chief Executive Officer Erik Thedeen, urging the
industry and regulators to develop the corporate  debt market .  Issuer Supply  Now, Norman says the government is willing to join the
collaboration to spur growth in a market where supply from the
issuer side is set to surge.  The Stockholm exchange is working on a project to develop
corporate bond trading, Mikael Estvall, head of fixed income in
Sweden, said by phone. Talks with participants have shown
there’s plenty of demand for corporate bonds, he said.  “Demand will gradually increase,” said Anna Ringby, head
of Nordic fixed income in Stockholm at asset manager Catella.
“The driving force is more investors, both small and big, are
trading corporate bonds more actively. In the past it’s mostly
been large investors investing on a buy-and-hold basis, which
doesn’t support liquidity.”  So far this year, corporates, banks and municipalities have
issued 85 billion kronor ($12.8 billion) in krona-denominated
bonds, bringing sales to 28 percent of the amount sold in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The figures also
include foreign issuers such as local German states and the
 European Investment Bank .  Outperformance  Swedish benchmark stocks have outperformed their European
peers. Sweden’s OMX 30 Index is up 11 percent this year, versus
an 8 percent gain in the Stoxx Europe 600. Sweden’s all-share
index, which has 281 members, has surged 12 percent in the
period. The OMX 30 Index slipped 0.3 percent today, versus a 0.1
percent decline in the Stoxx Europe 600.  Kloevern AB, a Swedish real estate company, today said it
sold 500 million kronor in three-year unsecured bonds.  “Interest in other forms of financing has increased as
liquidity in the banking system has diminished,” Rutger Arnhult, the company’s chief executive officer, said in a
statement. “We’re very satisfied with the interest in
Kloevern’s bond and can definitely think of using this
possibility again.”  Among the main Swedish corporate issuers were  Securitas AB (SECUB) ,
a security and alarm company, which last month sold 400 million
kronor in three year notes.  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  sold 1.1 billion
kronor in debt last month. The government wants any corporate
debt issuance to be exchange based, Norman said.  Market Initiative  “Trading securities on the stock exchange is a good thing
in general and corporate bonds would fit well,” he said.  According to the Financial Supervisory Authority, the onus
is on the industry to develop a corporate debt market.  “We’re positive to any initiative, but the demand really
needs to come from the market itself,” Christina Ploom,
director of market supervision at the FSA, said in an interview.  The country’s financial regulator and central bank in
November told Sweden’s four biggest lenders to target common
equity Tier 1 capital of at least 10 percent from January 2013
and 12 percent two years later. Basel sets a 7 percent target,
to be met by 2019. The rules affect  Nordea Bank (NDA) ,  Svenska
Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  SEB (SEBA) , and  Swedbank AB. (SWEDA)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  