-- Swiss Re Raises Dividend After Quarterly Earnings Beat Analyst Estimates
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-02-23T08:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/swiss-re-raises-dividend-as-983-million-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates.html
Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN) , the world’s second-
biggest reinsurer, may use excess capital to pay a special
dividend for this year after increasing its 2011 payout as
fourth-quarter profit exceeded analyst estimates.  Swiss gained the most in five weeks in Zurich trading after
posting net income of $983 million following a loss of $725
million in the year-earlier period. That beat the $299 million
average estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
Zurich-based reinsurer raised its 2011 dividend to 3 Swiss
francs ($3.30) from 2.75 francs the previous year.  Swiss Re regained its AA-  credit rating  from  Standard &
Poor’s  in October after shedding risky assets, repaying a 3
billion-franc loan from  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
and stabilizing earnings. Property and casualty premiums climbed
20 percent when the firm joined larger rival Munich Re and other
reinsurers in renewing contracts last month.  “One of the main highlights is that the non-life treaty
portfolio increased by some 20 percent, which is far better than
what Munich Re did,” said Daniel Bischof, a Zurich-based
analyst with Helvea. The property and casualty result was
boosted by reserve releases of about $1.3 billion, he said.  Swiss Re rose as much as 4.2 percent and was up 4.1 percent
at 55.15 francs as of 9:09 a.m. in Zurich. The stock has climbed
15 percent this year compared with a 14 percent gain in the 28-
company Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index.  Special Dividend  Michel Lies, who took over as chief executive officer from
Stefan Lippe earlier this month, is courting investors with
bigger payouts as low  interest rates  and record natural-disaster
losses weigh on industry profitability.  Swiss Re said excess capital at the end of last year was
over $7 billion. The reinsurer said it may pay a special
dividend to shareholders for 2012 if it can’t “fully deploy
capital at favorable terms” to boost its returns.  The firm prefers paying a special payout to a share buyback
because it has “substantial capacity to pay dividends free of
withholding tax,” Chief Financial Officer  George Quinn  said on
a conference call.  The reinsurer, which sells coverage to primary carriers to
guard against the cost of major claims, said the average price
increase in January for its renewed book was 4 percent. The firm
typically renews about two-thirds of its annual contracts in
January.  “The primary reason for the confidence that you hear today
is the results of the renewal,” Quinn said. “We started this
year with growth of 20 percent, and we had a significant price
rise at the same time.”  Market Turn  Munich Re  said earlier this month that it expects further
rate increases, particularly in regions that have suffered
natural-catastrophe losses.  Full-year profit tripled to $2.63 billion from $863
million. Swiss Re is targeting an average annual increase in
earnings per share of 10 percent over the next five years.  “With a successful year behind us and a modest but broad
market turn under way, Swiss Re is well positioned to perform
and grow in a low-yield environment,” Lies said in the
statement. “We are positioned well heading into 2012.”  The company said Matthias Weber will assume the position of
Chief Underwriting Officer, succeeding Brian Gray, who will
retire early on April 30 to return to  Canada .  The reinsurer’s Swiss solvency ratio was 210 percent at the
end of June with a ratio of 227 percent for the reinsurance
unit, which accounts for about 80 percent of its business. The
solvency test, introduced in January last year, requires
insurers to provide a mark-to-market valuation of assets and
liabilities, including their investment portfolios.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  