-- Sydbank Sells First Senior Unsecured Notes Since September 2010
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-02-23T10:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/sydbank-taps-senior-debt-market-for-first-time-since-2010-1-.html
Sydbank A/S (SYDB)  (SYDB),  Denmark ’s third-largest
listed lender, is selling its first senior bonds since September
2010 as the funding outlook for Danish banks improves.  Sydbank, which has an A2  issuer rating  at Moody’s Investors
Service, will sell two-year senior unsecured floating notes, it
said in a statement to the stock exchange today. The notes may
be priced to yield about 200 basis points more than the  Euro
Interbank Offered Rate (EUR003M) , a banker involved in the transaction
said.  “This transaction will be priced in the near future,
subject to market conditions,” the bank said. The securities
will be listed on the London Stock Exchange.  Sydbank is testing unsecured funding markets a year after
the failure of regional lender  Amagerbanken A/S (AMAG)  triggered senior
creditor losses and shut most of Denmark’s 120 banks out of
wholesale debt markets. Sydbank has 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) in senior debt coming due in September, according to
Bloomberg data. That note was issued in September 2010.  Chief Executive Officer Karen Froesig said yesterday her
bank is working on a senior debt sale after  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , the
country’s biggest lender, conducted a successful issue of the
securities. Danske this week sold 1 billion euros in five-year
senior unsecured bonds at a yield of 230 basis points more than
the benchmark mid-swap rate, according to a banker with
knowledge of the transaction.  ‘A Little Expensive’  “It’s a little expensive but it’s very positive that they
were able to break through the market,” Froesig said yesterday.
“It’s one thing to say the market is opening and another that
Danish banks are able to access it.”  The bookrunners for Sydbank’s senior debt sale are BNP
Paribas SA, Commerzbank AG and Danske Bank. Sydbank also said it
will buy back existing senior debt maturing Sept. 3 at a
price of 100.175 percent of the nominal value, plus accrued
interest.  The bank yesterday reported fourth-quarter net income of 52
million kroner ($9.3 million), compared with a Bloomberg
 estimate  of 183 million kroner, after taking additional
writedowns on farming loans.  The results were “rather disappointing,” Thomas Hovard,
head of credit research at Danske Markets, said in a note. He
cut his recommendation on Sydbank’s bonds to “hold” from
“buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  