-- Syracuse University Wins Bid to Move Sex-Abuse Suit Upstate
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-02-23T20:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/syracuse-university-wins-bid-to-move-sex-abuse-suit-upstate.html
A lawsuit filed against Syracuse
University by two men who claim they were sexually molested by
former assistant basketball coach Bernie Fine was moved out of
 New York City  to an upstate courthouse.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Brian F. DeJoseph in
Syracuse yesterday granted a motion by lawyers for the
university and co-defendant  Jim Boeheim , the head men’s
basketball coach, to have the case heard in Onondoga County,
where the school is based and where plaintiff Robert “Bobby”
Davis lives.  Davis and his stepbrother Michael Lang, of Oswego County,
who both served as ball boys for the Syracuse basketball
program, sued the school and Boeheim in in Manhattan on Dec. 13.
Fine, who has denied wrongdoing, wasn’t named in the suit and
the university has declined to comment on the complaint.  The plaintiffs argued that the case should stay in
 Manhattan  as local media coverage has “tainted the local jury
pool,” DeJoseph said in his ruling. “The plaintiffs’ arguments
are well-crafted and are certainly worth of review from this
court, but they still equate to nothing more than mere beliefs,
suspicions and a feeling of possible bias.”  Syracuse fired Fine, who was in his 36th season at the
upstate New York university, on Nov. 27 after he was accused of
sexually abusing the two former ball boys. Onondaga County
District Attorney  William Fitzpatrick  said on Dec. 8 that Fine
won’t face charges related to those allegations because the
claims are too old to prosecute.  Ball Boy  Davis accused the university and Boeheim of failing to
protect him from Fine, whom Davis says began abusing him after
making him a ball boy at age 11 in 1983. Fine also abused Lang,
who is 5 1/2 years older than Davis, according to the complaint.  The judge, a graduate of  Syracuse University , said in his
decision that articles from national and local outlets after
Fine’s dismissal aren’t completely one-sided and can’t be
considered “unduly unfair.”  “Some of the articles support defendants, while others
support the plaintiffs,” DeJoseph wrote. “The court has not
been called upon to review whether the media coverage has been
fair and accurate, but in the context of plaintiffs’ argument,
the court does not view the media coverage in central New York
as completely ‘negative’ so as to preclude a fair and impartial
trial.”  Gloria Allred , an attorney representing Davis and Lang,
said she is reviewing the university’s move for a change of
venue.  “We filed in New York City because of concerns that the
coach would have an unfair advantage in Syracuse where he is a
local hero and the university is a local major employer,” she
said in an e-mail. “However, we have confidence in our clients’
case no matter where it is ultimately heard.’  The cases are Davis v. Boeheim, 000255/2012, Onondaga
County Supreme Court (Syracuse); and Davis v. Boeheim,
113967/2011,  New York  State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  