-- Kofi Annan Named UN Troubleshooter to Syria
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-02-24T07:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/syrians-troops-shell-homs-on-eve-of-tunisia-talks-to-discuss-ousting-assad.html
Former United Nations Secretary-
General Kofi Annan will be a special envoy to Syria for the UN
and the  Arab League , seeking to broker peace in a country on the
brink of civil war as President Bashar al-Assad wages deadly
attacks on civilians.  The appointment of the Ghanaian diplomat, who served as UN
chief between 1997 and 2006, follows two failed attempts by the
UN Security Council to compel Assad to stop the killings and
give way to a national unity government. Annan will “engage
with all relevant interlocutors within and outside Syria in
order to end the violence and the humanitarian crisis and
facilitate a peaceful Syrian-led and inclusive political
solution,” according to a UN statement.  The initiative came on the eve of today’s meeting in Tunis
of U.S., European and Arab officials to discuss ways to help the
Syrian opposition. Assad’s crackdown has left about 8,500 people
dead, according to the Arab Organization for Human Rights.  The city of Homs has been under siege for three week and
mortar shelling there killed two foreign journalists on Feb. 21.
Al-Jazeera today showed footage of another three reporters who
said they are stranded in  Syria .  French journalist Edith Bouvier, whose leg was broken in
the attack that killed the Sunday Times’s Marie Colvin and
photographer Remi Ochlik, pleaded in the video for a cease-fire
so she can be evacuated and receive appropriate medical care.
“The doctors here treated us very well, as much as they can,
but they are not able to undertake surgeries,” she said.  Crimes Against Humanity  Russia and  China  vetoed two Security Council resolutions,
one in October and the other earlier this month, condemning the
violence by Syrian government forces.  The UN-appointed Independent International Commission of
Inquiry on Syria, in a report released yesterday, found
“reasonable grounds to believe that particular individuals,
including commanding officers and officials at the highest
levels of government, bear responsibility for crimes against
humanity and other gross human rights violations.”  The three-member panel said it submitted names of violators
in a sealed envelope to UN High Commissioner for Human Rights
Navi Pillay to help in potential future prosecutions.  Annan served as an African Union mediator during the 2008
crisis in  Kenya , when he secured a power-sharing deal between
the government and opposition after a contested election
triggered violent protests.  Rwanda, Iraq  A Nobel Peace Prize winner for his work on the AIDS
pandemic, Annan criticized the U.S. over its 2003 invasion of
 Iraq , calling it “illegal” for bypassing approval by the UN
Security Council.  An economist by training, Annan is a UN veteran who began
his career there in the 1960s and rose through the ranks. As
director of UN peacekeeping operations in  Rwanda  in 1994, he was
criticized for withholding troops. Annan a decade later said
he could have done more.  His reputation also took a blow toward the end of his
tenure as UN chief when it was revealed that some UN officials
profited from an aid program designed to let Iraqis buy food and
supplies with proceeds from oil sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the  United Nations  at
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at  at  jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  