-- U.K. Pound Rises Against Dollar as Factory Index Climbs to Six-Month High
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-02-23T17:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/u-k-pound-rises-against-dollar-as-factory-index-climbs-to-six-month-high.html
The pound strengthened for the first
time in three days against the dollar after an index of U.K.
factory orders rose to a six-month high in February.  Sterling fell to a 10-week low against the euro after  Bank
of England  policy maker  David Miles  said he voted to add 75
billion pounds ($118 billion) to the central bank’s stimulus
plan this month because the U.K. economy is in a “precarious
situation.” Economists estimate a report tomorrow will confirm
Britain’s economy contracted in the fourth quarter.  “The manufacturing data was better than expected, it
underlines that the sector isn’t doing that badly,” said  Simon Smith , chief economist at foreign-exchange broker FXPro Group
Ltd. in London. “For the moment we are still negative on the
pound. We are still in that territory of wondering whether we
will see negative growth in the first quarter of this year.”  Sterling advanced 0.2 percent to $1.5696 at 5:08 p.m.
 London  time, trimming yesterday’s 0.7 percent decline. The
currency dropped 0.3 percent to 84.78 pence per euro, after
depreciating to 84.89 pence, the weakest since Dec. 12.  The factory orders gauge climbed to minus 3 from minus 16
in January, the  Confederation of British Industry  said in a
report. That’s the strongest since August. A measure of export
orders jumped to minus 2 from minus 26.  Pound Weakness  The pound has fallen 2.1 percent against the euro this week
as  Greece  won 130 billion euros ($173 billion) in aid, fueling
optimism policy makers are containing the sovereign debt crisis.  Sterling weakened yesterday after minutes of this month’s
Bank of England meeting showed two policy makers voted for a
larger increase in asset purchases than the amount agreed upon.
Policy maker  Adam Posen  joined Miles in wanting a 75 billion-
pound boost in quantitative easing, instead of the 50 billion
pounds supported by the other seven policy makers.  “There hasn’t really been much of a recovery from what was
one of the deepest recessions in the history of this country,”
Miles told CNBC in a television interview, which was also
published on its website today.  The pound has dropped 1.2 percent in the past week
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. That extends its one-year loss
to 4.7 percent, the indexes show.  The U.K. economy shrank 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter,
according to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey before the government releases the data tomorrow.
That would confirm the initial numbers released on Jan. 25.  The  10-year gilt  yield was little changed at 2.1 percent.
The 3.75 percent bond due September 2021 traded at 114.2. Two-
year  yields  were also little changed, at 0.39 percent.  Gilts have handed investors a 1.5 percent loss this year,
after returning almost 17 percent in 2011, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. German debt slipped 0.2 percent, and  U.S.
Treasuries  fell 0.5 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  