-- U.K. Rate Rise Years Away Amid Dire Housing Outlook, Boot
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-02-23T14:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/u-k-rate-rise-years-away-amid-dire-housing-outlook-bootle-says.html
The  Bank of England  won’t raise its
key interest rate for years as  consumer spending  stays weak amid
an “absolutely dire” outlook for the U.K. housing market,
according to Capital Economics Ltd. founder  Roger Bootle .  “It’s going be very nearly a decade before consumer 
spending in aggregate returns to the same level it stood at 
before the economic downturn,” Bootle told a conference 
organized by the Institute of Economic Affairs and held at the 
Institute of Directors in London today. “Interest rates are 
going to stay at this level for years to come.”  The central bank expanded its asset-buying program by 50
billion pounds ($79 billion) and kept its  benchmark rate  at a
record low 0.5 percent this month after the economy contracted
in the fourth quarter. While a lack of homes for sale and
buoyant overseas demand have supported  house prices  in London,
values nationally have fallen as banks curtail lending and
companies cut jobs.  “As the availability of mortgage finance gets tighter,
that’s going to exercise an influence” on the housing market
“and as unemployment rises, that too will be a negative,”
said Bootle, a former adviser to the U.K. Treasury. “We’re
going to see the real value of this very important consumer
asset declining and probably the market stagnating.”  The Bank of England will also have to return interest
rates to “normal” at some point, he said. “If the housing
market is flat on its back and falling outside  London  when
interest rates are at 0.5 percent, what’s it going to be like
when base rates are 5 percent?”  ‘Wriggle Down’  “Probably what will happen is that prices just wriggle
down a bit and earnings will continue to rise, so the adjustment
will come gradually rather than suddenly,” he said.  Bank of England policy makers increased the target of
their  bond-purchase plan  to 325 billion pounds on Feb. 9 after
the economy shrank 0.2 percent in the last three months of 2011
amid a squeeze on consumers and  Europe ’s debt turmoil. Officials
said the inflation rate, which fell to 3.6 percent in January
from a peak of 5.2 percent in September, will drop to their 2
percent target by the end of this year.  “We’re going to see  inflation  continuing to fall down to
about 1 percent or even lower” with the benchmark  interest rate 
“remaining at this level also for years and years to come,”
Bootle said. “I would do more” quantitative easing, “but I
certainly don’t think it’s the answer to a maiden’s prayer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  