-- U.K.’s Cameron Says He’s ‘Sick of Anti-Business Snobbery’
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-02-23T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/u-k-s-cameron-says-he-s-sick-of-anti-business-snobbery-.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
will urge corporate leaders to defend business and the free
markets from “dangerous rhetoric,” less than a month after his
government stripped banker  Fred Goodwin  of his knighthood.  In a speech in  London  to charity Business In The Community,
Cameron will attack the idea “that wealth creation is somehow
anti-social,” arguing that “business is not just about making
money, as vital as that is; it’s also the most powerful force
for social progress the world has ever known.”  Cameron has attacked business himself in recent months. In
January he effectively ordered a government committee to examine
whether former Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc chief executive
Goodwin should keep his knighthood. Two weeks later it concluded
he shouldn’t.  Today he will say that recent attacks on companies such as
Tesco Plc for offering unpaid work experience places to the
unemployed have gone too far.  “Put a young person into college for a month’s learning,
unpaid, and it’s hailed as a good thing,” Cameron will say,
according to his office. Put a young person into a supermarket
for a month’s learning, unpaid, and it’s slammed as slave labor.
Frankly I am sick of this anti-business snobbery.”  Earlier in the day, Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  and
Business Secretary Vince Cable announce a further 1 billion
pounds ($1.6 billion) of government money for the Regional
Growth Fund, which is designed to help companies invest in
projects that create jobs.  At the Business In The Community event, Lloyds Banking
Group Plc will say it is seconding up to 20 senior staff to act
as advisors for the charity, helping small companies and young
people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 