-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Feb. 21 (Text)
-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 2012-02-23T13:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-feb-21-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  Northeast: Most of the region experienced abnormally warm
temperatures and dry weather, leading to no changes on the map
this week. Impacts haven’t emerged yet, but the dryness of the
past two months is of some concern with spring and the growing
season right around the corner. This time serves as the recharge
season, and that has been lacking.  South Atlantic and Central Gulf Coast Regions: The South
Atlantic Didn’t fare as well this past week with unseasonably
warm weather and very little in the way of precipitation across
the Carolinas up into coastal  Virginia ,  Maryland  and  Delaware .
The exception was in south central and southern  Georgia , where
some modest rainfall occurred. The best rains fell in the heart
of the D4 region, and that led to some slight improvement on the
northern edge of the D4 within Georgia. The rest of the state
remains in status quo given both the short- and long-term
drought within the state. Streamflows are historically low
virtually statewide save for the northern basins.  Florida saw both the good and bad with regard to the drought
this past week, with most of the southern peninsula (basically
east of Tallahassee and down to the Everglades) seeing little if
any rain. The western Panhandle, however, saw heavy rains of 3
to 5 inches, leading to a 1-category improvement to locales in
and around Tallahassee to the west and north into  Alabama . Even
after the good rains, the area is still in the grips of long-
term drought, with D2-D3 left in place. In southern Florida,
another week of dryness leads to a slight expansion of D0-D2
from the west coast to the east coast and points south of
 Orlando .  Both Mississippi and Alabama saw the same heavy bands of rain
across the coastal regions, leading to widespread improvement by
one category or more in some places within extreme southern
Mississippi. Alabama also saw 1-category improvements but the
dryness/drought characteristics have shifted a bit more toward
the long-term (L) impact type of drought. Southeast Alabama is
still fully entrenched in D3 and D4. Streamflows have not
rebounded nearly as well in this quadrant of the state but have
showed some promise in other regions along the coastal counties
in both  Mississippi  and Alabama and into the extreme western
reaches of the Florida Panhandle.  The Southern Great Plains and  Louisiana : Louisiana saw a mixed
bag of rains and results. The best rainfall totals were observed
in western, central and eastern parishes. The New Orleans area
and points south didn’t fare quite as well and so status quo
remains. The other areas within Louisiana all saw 1-category
improvement on the week.  Texas continued to see very un-La Nina like precipitation during
the week, with most of it centered on the eastern half of the
state. Short-term (S) drought impacts are falling by the
wayside, but longer-term hydrological remnants are still there,
most obvious in the western counties and up into the Panhandle.
The big news is the reduction of D4 in central  Texas  this week
along with reductions of D1-D3. Lesser amounts of the wet stuff
fell across western TX, including the Panhandle, and we will
continue to reassess the benefit of these rains in the short-
term vs. the long-term duration and severity of the drought
moving forward in these parts as more data comes in from the
field. Oklahoma and the rest of the southern Plains stand pat
this week after very little in the way of precipitation.  The Northern Plains:  The only change on the map this week is
centered on extreme eastern  Montana  and northwest North Dakota,
where the warm winter continues along with the dryness over the
past 90 days or so. As a result, D0 has expanded in both eastern
Montana and northwestern  North Dakota . The rest of the region
remains the same after a relatively quiet week.  West: Cooler temperatures settled in last week and all but the
coastal Pacific Northwest was dry as well, bucking the general
abnormally warm trend of the past month. Changes this week, all
in the form of deterioration, are depicted in  Wyoming ,  Utah ,
 Arizona ,  Nevada  and  California . Assessment of Water Year-to-date
(WYTD) snow pack and water equivalent estimates within the pack
shows some very low readings in the regions listed above. The
saving grace for many of these basins was the bounty of last
year, but in turning our attention to this year we are painting
a different picture as the peak snow accumulation season comes
down the final stretch. USDA-SNOTEL observations show snow water
equivalent (SWE) ranking percentiles for many of the basins in
the 6%-10% or even the driest 5% range based on the long-term
record (over the past 20 years at least). This has led to the
removal of D0 and replacement with D1 in the Mogollon region of
central Arizona. It has also resulted in an expansion of D1 in
the Upper Bear basin along the Wyoming/Utah state line, along
with a slight D1 push into more of extreme northeastern Utah
toward Wyoming and  Colorado . Colorado, however, stands pat this
week.  Farther west, northwestern Nevada and northeastern California
both see an expansion of D2 for the same reasons explained
above. WYTD precipitation has been slow in coming to date. The
dryness also extends farther southward in California and into
the lower elevations as well as to the coast in northern
California. Both D0 and D1 have pushed west to the coast and
south into the Los Angeles region continuing down to just north
of San Diego. After a bumper year last winter, results of a new
snow survey in the Sierras over the coming weeks will reveal a
lot more about where we stand this winter.  Hawaii : No changes are noted across the islands this week.  Looking Ahead: During the next 5 days (February 23-27, 2012),
the best bets for precipitation are centered on the Pacific
Northwest, Southeast, Atlantic Seaboard and up into New England.
Only modest totals are forecast for the drought regions across
the Southeast, but anything will help at this point with the
spring growing season just around the corner. The wetness in the
eastern U.S. will be accompanied by warmer-than-normal
temperatures as well. Most locations west of the Missouri River
can expect to see below-normal temperatures over this period
with the exception being the Four Corners region and California,
where near-normal readings are expected.  The Climate Prediction Center (CPC) 6-10 day (February 28-March
3, 2012) outlook shows increased odds of precipitation across
the Pacific Northwest, the eastern Great Plains, the Midwest and
the Mississippi, Missouri, and Ohio River valleys. Below-normal
precipitation is anticipated in southern California, the
Southwest and the coastal regions of the Carolinas as well as
all of  Florida  except for the Panhandle. Temperatures look to be
below normal across all of  Alaska  and everywhere west of the
Rockies. Above-normal temperatures are likely to occur east of
the Mississippi Valley and up into New England with the
Southeast and Florida showing the strongest chances for
unseasonably warm weather as we welcome March in the door.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  