-- U.S. Holds First Meeting With North Korea Since Kim’s Death
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-23T11:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/u-s-holds-first-meeting-with-north-korea-since-kim-s-death-1-.html
The U.S. and  North Korea  held
“substantive and serious” talks in Beijing today in the first
such meeting since  Kim Jong Il  died in December and his son
inherited leadership of the isolated, nuclear-armed country.  The U.S. special representative for North Korea policy,
Glyn Davies, told reporters the two sides “‘covered quite a
number of the issues’’ in the two rounds of talks, at the North
Korean Embassy in the morning and the U.S. Embassy in the
afternoon. The sides will meet again tomorrow, he said, without
giving details of what they discussed.  Today’s meetings are the third since the U.S. resumed
direct talks with North Korea in efforts to bring the country
back to negotiations aimed at persuading it to abandon its
nuclear weapons program. The U.S. seeks to gauge the country’s
intentions since the younger Kim took over and ease tension
between South and North Korea, analyst John Park said.  ‘‘The proposition is that by engaging North Koreans in
talks, negotiations, this is an effective means by which the
U.S. side can hopefully prevent future provocations by North
Korea against  South Korea ,” Park, a fellow at Harvard
University’s  Belfer Center  for Science and International
Affairs, told Bloomberg TV earlier today.  Davies had told reporters yesterday he would raise
humanitarian issues and nuclear nonproliferation in the
discussions with his North Korean counterpart, Kim Kye Gwan.  Nuclear Negotiations  The possibility of restarting six-party talks over the
North’s nuclear weapons program is up to Pyongyang, Davies said
yesterday. The North backed out of the talks, which include
 Russia , China, the U.S.,  Japan  and the two Koreas, in April 2009
and has shown no sign since Kim Jong Un took over that it’s
willing to resume them.  Also yesterday, Japanese six-party talks negotiator
Shinsuke Sugiyama met his Chinese counterpart Wu Dawei in
Beijing to discuss the negotiations,  China ’s Foreign Ministry
said on its website.  Negotiations are the only way to resolve the Korean
peninsula nuclear issue and six-party talks are an “effective
way” to bring about an agreement, Chinese Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei said at a briefing today. The talks “serve
the interest of all parties,” he said.  Without Preconditions  Last October, Kim Jong Il said North Korea is ready to
restart the talks as long as they occur without preconditions.
The U.S. State Department said in August that North Korea must
refrain from nuclear testing and missile launches and meet other
conditions before the talks can resume. The North revealed a
secret uranium-enrichment program in 2010.  Davies will head to South Korea on Feb. 25 to meet his
counterpart there, Lim Sung Nam. Speaking at a news conference
yesterday, South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  said North Korea
can use the leadership change to transform itself, adding that
he is open to resuming dialogue provided the regime is genuinely
interested.  Seoul will host a nuclear security summit on March 26-27 to
discuss preventing nuclear terrorism. North Korea’s state-run
Korean Central News Agency released a report yesterday quoting
government officials denouncing the planned gathering.  “We will never pardon the  United States  and the Lee Myung
Bak regime, which push the situation of the Korean peninsula to
the brink of war by taking issue with the DPRK’s self-defensive
nuclear deterrent,” KCNA quoted Pak Song Il, deputy director of
the Secretariat of the North Headquarters of the Pan-National
Alliance for  Korea ’s Reunification, as saying.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  