-- U.S. Commercial Paper Market Shrinks the Most in Seven Weeks
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2012-02-23T16:17:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/u-s-commercial-paper-market-shrinks-the-most-in-seven-weeks-1-.html
The market for corporate borrowing
through short-term  commercial paper  contracted the most in seven
weeks, led by issuance of short-term IOUs from banks, on concern
that  Europe ’s fiscal crisis may spread.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
outstanding dropped $24.5 billion to $937.6 billion in the week
ended yesterday, the second consecutive fall, the  Federal
Reserve  said today on its website. It’s the biggest decline
since the period ended Jan. 4 when commercial paper fell $30.1
billion and the lowest level since $929.2 billion outstanding
for that same date, according to Fed data compiled by Bloomberg.  While  Greece ’s private creditors agreed to a debt swap on
Feb. 21, paving the way for a second bailout of the debt-ridden
nation, banks including  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and Credit Agricole SA
are posting writedowns and losses on Greek debt. Demand from
U.S. money-market funds, among the biggest investors in short-
term financial paper, has been constrained by concern that
European debt strains could infect bank balance sheets globally.  “The drop is consistent with a pause in the banking
system’s stress reduction,” Howard Simons, strategist at Bianco
Research LLC in  Chicago , wrote in an e-mail. “The process
involved how much Greek debt the banks would have to write
off,” he wrote. “In addition, the continued narrowing of bond
credit spreads makes replacing CP with short-term bonds
attractive.”  Bank Loans Preference  Commercial paper sold by non-U.S. financial institutions 
fell $7.2 billion to $155.7 billion outstanding, the biggest
decline since a $10.9 billion drop for the period ended Jan. 4,
while the  amount issued by U.S.-based banks  slid $8.8 billion,
to $273.3 billion outstanding, the lowest level since the period
ended Nov. 9, the data show.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as paying
rent and salaries.  Another reason for the decline in commercial paper issuance
is companies’ preference for bank loans, according to Raymond Stone, an economist at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates in
Princeton,  New Jersey . “The general trend is that issuers are
turning more to borrowing from banks and those rates are more
attractive than issuing paper in a market that may be a little
bit unfriendly,” Stone wrote in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Parry  in New York at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  