-- U.S. 2012 Food Inflation Seen at 2.5%-3.5%, Unchanged
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-02-23T21:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/u-s-food-costs-to-rise-2-5-to-3-5-in-2012-usda-says.html
U.S. consumers will pay 2.5 percent
to 3.5 percent more for food in 2012, unchanged from last
month’s forecast, the Department of Agriculture said today in a
report on its website.  Prices of fats and oils may rise as much as 4.5 percent
this year, a full percentage point increase from last month’s
estimate and the agency’s only upward revision, according to the
 report . An increase in crop production will contribute to lower
commodity costs,  Joe Glauber , the USDA’s chief economist, said
today at a government forum on agriculture in Arlington,
Virginia.  “Where it looked like earlier this year we would see a
bout of new inflation, now it looks like it will moderate,”
Glauber said.  The U.S. corn crop may rise as farmers plant the most acres
since World War II, the USDA said today. Average prices received
by farmers in 2012 will fall 19 percent to $5 a bushel from last
year, wheat will slide 14 percent and soybeans may drop 1.7
percent, Glauber said.  “While supplies still remain tight for feed grains,
slowing growth in biofuels and a return to trend yields should
result in a rebound in corn stocks this year,” Glauber said in
a speech. “Over time, that should help relieve some of the
volatility that has roiled markets over the last several
years.”  Cracker Barrel, Denny’s  Cracker Barrel Old Country Store Inc. said on Feb. 21 that
costs are up “sharply” for beef, eggs, seafood and coffee, and
food expenses jumped 6 percent in the quarter ended Jan. 27.
 Denny’s Corp. (DENN) , a family restaurant chain with 1,600 locations,
said in January it was raising prices to help make up for higher
commodity costs.  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s biggest coffee-shop operator,
has also been raising prices.  “Food prices really surged at the end of 2011, which isn’t
good news to consumers, but it means that we started at a higher
base for 2012,” Richard Volpe, a USDA food economist, said in a
presentation at the conference.  Costs this year will rise as much as 4.5 percent for meat
products and baked goods as gains in raw materials in the fourth
quarter ripple through the food chain, the USDA said today in a  
note  with its report.  “We are at a new plateau” of higher commodity prices,
Bill Lapp, the president of Advanced Economic Solutions, an
Omaha, Nebraska-based research company, said in a presentation
at the conference. “We’re not going back to where we were.”  Retail-food costs rose 3.7 percent in 2011, the USDA said
last month.  World food  prices fell 5.8 percent last year after
reaching a record in February, according to United Nations data.
Global costs increased 1.9 percent in January, while U.S.
monthly inflation was  0.6 percent .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Arlington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  