-- U.S. Postal Service to Cut 35,000 Jobs as Plants Are Shut
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-02-23T22:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/u-s-postal-service-to-cut-4-9-of-jobs-by-closing-almost-half-of-plants.html
The U.S.  Postal Service , which
predicts an annual loss of $18.2 billion by 2015, plans to
eliminate 5.4 percent of its workforce by closing almost half
its mail-processing facilities to decrease costs.  The service plans to shut 223 of its 461 mail-processing
plants by February 2013, Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe said
in a telephone interview today. The closings will cut about
35,000 jobs, said David Partenheimer, a spokesman.  The service is shutting post offices and seeking
congressional approval to end Saturday mail delivery as more
people use the Internet to correspond and pay bills. Mail volume
fell 6 percent in the quarter ended Dec. 31 and may drop 14
percent by 2016, led by declines in first-class mail, the most
profitable, the Washington-based service said this month.  “We have capacity in our processing plants to process
about double the letter mail we have in our system now,”
Donahoe said.  The changes probably won’t affect United Parcel Service
Inc. and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  much because of differences in delivery
schedules and prices, said David Vernon, a New York-based
analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  FedEx, UPS  “I wouldn’t expect a lot of volume to actually migrate,”
Vernon said in a telephone interview.  The closings will save the service about $2.5 billion a
year, Donahoe said. That’s down from an estimate of $3 billion
in September, when the service said it was seeking to close 252
plants.  The service posted a $3.3 billion loss for the quarter
ended Dec. 31. It had about 650,000 employees at the end of the
year, the service said in a filing this month.  Most of the quarterly loss came from a U.S. law requiring
the service to pay about $5.5 billion a year toward the health-
benefit costs of future retirees. To date, the Postal Service
has contributed $38 billion into the retiree health-benefit
fund, Partenheimer said in an e-mail.  The agency had predicted it would reach its $15 billion
debt limit last year until Congress deferred the 2011 retiree
health benefit payment to this year. The Postal Service, which
borrows only from the  U.S. Treasury , said this month it has $2.1
billion in borrowing capacity this year.  Plants in  Brooklyn  and  Staten Island ,  New York ,  Chicago  and
 Los Angeles  are among those approved for closing, according to a 
 list  posted on the Postal Service's website.  Operating Efficiency  The service wants the processing facilities to operate for
18 hours a day to improve efficiency, instead of the average 10
hours to 12 hours they run now, Donahoe said.  The labor cuts will occur through attrition, he said. The
service will eliminate about 30,000 full-time jobs with
benefits, Partenheimer said. It will cut about 5,000 temporary
positions, which include contract and part-time work and don’t
carry full benefits, he said.  The closings are needed to return the service to solvency
so it can keep running, said the head of a postal-customer group
whose members include  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  AT&T Inc. (T)   “The news that the Postal Service is finally doing
something to eliminate the redundancies that have inflated the
costs of its physical infrastructure is good news,” Association
for Postal Commerce President Gene Del Polito said.
“Eliminating needless and wasteful costs is the only way to
ensure the continued viability of the nation’s postal system.”  The agency has closed 214 mail processing facilities since
2005, including 26 since the September announcement, according
to data provided by Sue Brennan, a Postal Service spokeswoman.  No Approval Needed  While lawmakers led by Senator  Bernie Sanders , a Vermont
independent, are seeking to amend a postal bill moving through
the Senate to prevent mail-processing plant closings, the
service doesn’t need permission from Congress under current law.  While the Postal Regulatory Commission has an appeals
process for people to challenge post-office closings, it doesn’t
have a similar procedure for processing plants. Congress must
approve changes such as cutting a delivery day or allowing the
service to leave the federal employee health plan it’s currently
using to manage its own benefits.  Congress should address the service’s mounting losses in
ways that don’t require closing plants where the union’s members
work, said Sally Davidow, a spokeswoman for the American Postal
Workers Union.  “Congress can fix this,” Davidow said in a telephone
interview. “They made this mess, they can fix it. That is what
is killing the Postal Service.”  She declined to specify what the union would do to
challenge the plant closings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  