-- U.S. Said to Offer India Help With Replacing Crude Oil Supplies From Iran
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2012-02-24T05:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/u-s-said-to-offer-india-help-with-replacing-iran-oil-supplies.html
The U.S. government has offered to
help  India  get alternative supplies for Iranian crude as it
looks to squeeze the Persian Gulf producer’s oil revenue,
according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  The U.S. may help broker deals with suppliers such as Iraq
and  Saudi Arabia , the people said, declining to be identified
because the information is confidential. Saudi Arabia has
already offered to replace Iranian oil supplies if needed, two
of the people said. The U.S. is in talks with countries around
the world on reducing their dependence on Iranian oil,  Victoria Nuland , a spokeswoman at the State Department in  Washington ,
said in an e-mail yesterday.  The assurance follows Iran’s offer to sell extra crude to
India as the Persian Gulf nation, OPEC’s second-biggest
producer, cuts supplies to some European nations in response to
sanctions imposed over its nuclear program. The U.S. and
European Union tightened sanctions on  Iran  last month,
restricting trade and financial transactions. They say the
program is a cover for developing atomic weapons. Iran denies
the accusation.  “This move is going to have an impact and India is going
to be hard-nosed in the way they are going to deal with it,”
 Praveen Kumar , an analyst at Facts Global Energy in  Singapore ,
said. “It’s turned the situation a little in favor of India,
which can potentially use it to get a better deal from Iran.”  Turkish Intermediary  The international measures have made it difficult for India
and Iran to preserve $9.5 billion in annual crude trade, after
the  Reserve Bank  of India dismantled a mechanism used to settle
payments in euros and dollars in December 2010. Transactions are
currently routed through  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , based in
Ankara, which has told Indian refiners it may no longer be able
to act as an intermediary, four people with knowledge of the
matter said Jan. 10.  The Turkish lender will stop processing transactions for
supplies into Turkish refineries from July, an official at
 Tupras Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri AS (TUPRS) , which operates four
plants, said yesterday.  India is seeking an additional 5 million tons a year of oil
from Saudi Arabia in the year ending March 2013, Junior Oil
Minister R.P.N. Singh said in New Delhi yesterday. Saudi Arabia
is producing 9.8 million barrels of oil a day and has spare
capacity of 2.5 million barrels a day, according to Prince
Salman bin Abdulaziz, the kingdom’s deputy oil minister.  Indian Refiners  Indian refiners including  Essar Oil Ltd. (ESOIL) , Bharat Petroleum
Corp., Hindustan Petroleum Corp. and  Mangalore Refinery &
Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL) , all of which buy Iranian crude, plan to
increase imports from Saudi Arabia as they diversify supplies,
people with knowledge of the plans said in November and January.
Saudi Arabia, the largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, has told Indian buyers it can
replace some of the Iranian crude, two people with knowledge of
the matter said July 12. Two of the people with knowledge of the
U.S. offer and a third person confirmed this yesterday.  “The oil market is well-supplied at the moment,” Kumar
said. “The Saudis have said they have enough spare capacity.
It’s the psychological impact of the tensions over Iran that is
keeping the price up.”  The U.S.’s talks with nations “include helping partners
and allies identify alternative sources of supply, based on the
conversations we are also having with supplier nations,” the
U.S. State Department’s Nuland said in her e-mail yesterday.  Rising Prices  Indian refiners are wary of increasing oil imports from
Iran while talks on finding a conduit for payments are
continuing, two people with knowledge of the matter said Feb.
21. While they plan to renew term contracts with Iran for the
year starting April 1, continued difficulties related to
payments may curb supplies, one of the people said.  Oil prices in  New York  have climbed 10 percent this month,
while Brent crude in  London  has jumped 12 percent, amid
increased confrontation between Iran and the U.S. and its
allies. The U.S. and Israel haven’t ruled out air strikes
against Iran’s nuclear facilities, escalating tension in a
region that’s home to 54 percent of global oil reserves. Brent
crude traded above $124 a barrel today.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest crude oil exporter, is
ready to boost supplies to other nations besides India. The
country is prepared to help South Korea secure “stable” crude
oil supplies if the Asian country’s imports are disrupted by an
embargo on Iran, the kingdom’s Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said in
a meeting with South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  in Riyadh on
Feb. 7. It can meet any future requests and extra demand from
South Korea for oil purchases, he said.  IAEA Visit  Iraq  will raise supply by 250,000 barrels a day this year,
Didier Houssin, director of energy markets and security at the
International Energy Agency, said Feb. 20. Iraq produced 2.75
million barrels a day last month, according to Bloomberg
estimates.  “There is crude available” to replace Iranian supply,
Houssin said. “Buyers are looking to Saudi Arabia, Iraq,
 Russia . Saudi Arabia has said it’s ready to produce more.”  An International Atomic Energy Agency team visiting Tehran
was denied access to Iran’s Parchin military base during two
days of meetings that ended Feb. 21. IAEA Director General
Yukiya Amano expressed disappointment that the team “engaged in
a constructive spirit, but no agreement was reached.”  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said Iran’s refusal to
allow access to sites where Western intelligence agencies have
reported suspected nuclear weapons work “suggests that they
have not changed their behavior.” It is “another demonstration
of Iran’s refusal to abide by its international obligations,”
he said Feb. 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  