-- U.S. Sees Bigger Corn Crop as Farms Boost Acres to 1944 High;Wheat Expands
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n ,   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-02-23T18:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/u-s-corn-crop-record-may-ease-food-costs-as-farmers-plant-most-since-1944.html
The U.S. corn crop may rise as
farmers plant the most acres since World War II, easing pressure
on higher food and fuel prices, the government said. Soybean
planting may be little changed while wheat expands.  Farmers will sow corn on 94 million acres, up 2.3 percent
from last year and the most since 1944,  Joe Glauber , the chief
economist for the  U.S. Department of Agriculture , said today at
a conference in Arlington,  Virginia . The forecast was less than
the 94.329 million expected by analysts in a Bloomberg News
survey, and unchanged from an estimate in the USDA’s 10-year
baseline report, released Feb. 13.  Rising corn output and slowing demand for use in ethanol
may boost U.S. inventories of the grain that shrank to a 16-year
low in the past year. Average corn prices received by farmers in
2012 will be $5 a bushel, down 19 percent from last year, while
wheat prices will slide 14 percent and soybeans may drop 1.7
percent, Glauber said.  “While supplies still remain tight for feed grains,
slowing growth in biofuels and a return to trend yields should
result in a rebound in corn stocks this year,” Glauber said in
a speech. “Over time that should help relieve some of the
volatility that has roiled markets over the last several
years.”  Soybean planting may be unchanged from last year at 75
million acres, Glauber said. That’s above the 74 million
forecast in the baseline report. Wheat seedings may increase 6.6
percent from last year to 58 million acres, above the Feb. 13
forecast of 56.5 million.  Food Prices  As of yesterday, corn prices had dropped 0.8 percent this
year on the  Chicago  Board of Trade to $6.4125 a bushel, while
wheat slid 1.1 percent. Declining prices have sent global food
costs down 9.9 percent from a record in February 2011, United
Nations data show. U.S. consumers will pay 2.5 percent to 3.5
percent more for food in 2012, unchanged from last month’s
forecast, Glauber said.  “Where it looked like earlier this year we would see a
bout of new inflation, now it looks like it will moderate,” he
said.  The USDA said Feb. 13 that U.S. corn production would climb
to a record 14.235 billion bushels, while increasing yields
would boost soybean output to 3.215 billion bushels and the
wheat harvest may rise to 2.12 billion. Glauber didn’t update
production forecasts in his speech today.  Supply Deficit  The USDA’s projection for U.S. acreage was “very much
expected” by traders, Steve Kahler, a managing director at
Teucrium Trading, said in an interview in Arlington after
Glauber’s speech. Corn futures for May delivery fell 0.3 percent
to $6.395 a bushel at 11:40 a.m. in Chicago.  “The record high prices we’ve seen the last couple of
years is financial incentive for people to plant fence row to
fence row,” said Kahler, whose company sponsors exchange-traded
funds for commodities ranging from corn to natural gas. “Given
that we’ve had a tight-ending-stocks situation, people are
really looking to the next crop year to resolve the deficit in
supply.”  U.S. agricultural exports in the year that began Oct. 1 may
total $131 billion, down $1 billion from the USDA’s forecast in
November and below last year’s record, Glauber said.  China’s Soybean Purchases  China , the world’s biggest soybean consumer, last week
signed agreements in Iowa and  California  to purchase 13.4
million tons of the oilseed from the U.S. by Aug. 31, 2013,
coinciding with Vice President  Xi Jinping ’s visit to those
states. On Feb. 17, U.S. exporters sold 2.923 million tons to
China, the biggest one-day deal on record.  Ethanol makers may use 4.95 billion bushels of corn this
year, 50 million bushels less than a year earlier, Glauber said.
Corn stockpiles will “likely increase” over the next year,
easing costs for livestock producers, he said.  “The corn market has been so strong the last several years
that in my neighborhood, the number of acres going to corn
basically has maxed out,” Jon Holzfaster, a third-generation
farmer in Paxton,  Nebraska , said in a telephone interview before
Glauber’s speech. “If Mother Nature sees fit to let everyone
have a decent production year, we can produce enough bushels to
bring this market back down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Arlington, Virginia, at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Bjerga in Arlington, Virginia, at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in Arlington, Virginia, at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  