-- Hungary’s Banking Sector Unprofitable for First Time in 13 Years
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-02-23T14:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/hungary-s-banking-sector-unprofitable-for-first-time-in-13-years.html
Hungary’s banking industry was
unprofitable for the first time in 13 years in 2011 because of
losses from foreign-currency mortgage repayments, rising bad
loan provisions and a special industry tax.  Commercial banks posted a combined loss of 92.6 billion
forint ($426 million) after lenders booked 149 billion forint in
losses in the fourth quarter, the financial supervisory
authority, or Pszaf, said on its  website  today. Banks face
further deterioration in their credit portfolio after the rise
in bad loans picked up pace in the final quarter, reaching 8.6
percent by the end of the year, Pszaf said.  Hungarian banks, reeling under one of  Europe ’s most severe
financial industry taxes, were forced to swallow losses after
the government allowed the early repayment of foreign-currency
household mortgages at below-market rates.  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , the
country’s largest lender, competes with Italy’s  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Austria’s  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , and Germany’s BayernLB.  “Indirect losses suffered in relation to the repayment
plan were a decisive factor in the unfavorable fourth-quarter
results,” according to the statement. “For the whole of the
year, however, provisions for bad loans had the most important
negative impact on profitability.”  Banks suffered a pretax loss of 298 billion forint on early
repayments by the end of January, the watchdog said on Feb. 7.  Banks’ return on equity was minus 3.66 percent last year,
Pszaf said, adding that the industry’s capital position was
adequate from a prudential point of view.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  