-- Murdoch Wedding Singer Charlotte Church Settles U.K. Phone-Hacking Lawsuit
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-02-23T13:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/murdoch-wedding-singer-church-settles-u-k-news-corp-phone-hacking-suit.html
Charlotte Church, the Welsh pop star
who sang at  Rupert Murdoch ’s wedding in 1999, settled a lawsuit
against  News Corp . days before the first trial over the phone-
hacking scandal was scheduled to begin.  Terms of the settlement will be disclosed at a court
hearing next week in  London , a spokesman for Church said in an
e-mailed statement.  News Corp., which shuttered the News of the World in July
in an attempt to contain public anger, still faces possible
claims by more than 800 likely victims identified by police.
 Cherie Blair , the wife of former Prime Minister  Tony Blair , sued
the New York-based company this week.  Church’s trial was scheduled to determine damages in future
lawsuits over phone hacking. A trial would make more details of
the News of the World’s phone hacking public, possibly
embarrassing the company as it seeks to launch a new Sunday
edition of the Sun to replace the News of the World.  Church, 26, and her parents, James and Maria, sued in
December after the  Metropolitan Police  showed them evidence the
News of the World’s ex-private investigator,  Glenn Mulcaire , who
was jailed for phone hacking, had intercepted their phone
messages in 2003, 2005 and 2006 to write stories about them.  The singer, whose 2005 song “Crazy Chick” reached No. 2
on the U.K. pop charts, told a separate judge-led inquiry into
press ethics in November that the evidence includes “many pages
of names, numbers, notes, addresses, pin numbers and the fact
that my mother and I were each a ‘project.”’  Judge Geoffrey Vos, who has said a trial would benefit
everyone involved, created a grid of “test cases” last year
for the trial, choosing six lead claims and dozens of backups to
take their places if they settled. News International has pushed
settlements with the lead victims and their backups, leaving
Church’s case the only one ready for trial.  Actor Jude Law took 130,000 pounds ($204,200) to drop his
claim last month. Sports agent Sky Andrew, one of the first to
sue, agreed earlier this month to settle for 75,000 pounds,
while actor  Steve Coogan  took 40,000 pounds.  The case is Church v. News Group Newspapers,  High Court  of
Justice Chancery Division, No. HC11C03393.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  