-- Iranian Crude Supply to Turkey May Be Halted by Western Bank Sanctions
-- B y   R a j   R a j e n d r a n
-- 2012-02-23T15:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/turkish-refiner-tupras-won-t-be-able-to-use-halk-bank-for-iran-oil-trade.html
Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , the Turkish
bank that handles payments for Iranian oil, will stop processing
transactions for supplies into Turkish refineries from July amid
tightening Western sanctions against the Persian Gulf state.  Tupras Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri AS (TUPRS) , which operates four
refineries, won’t be able to use the bank from the end of June
unless it gets a U.S. waiver, a Tupras official said today,
declining to be identified citing company policy. State-run Halk
complies with all international regulations and standard
practices on Iran, an official at the Ankara-based lender said
by phone today, declining to be named for the same reason.  Global refiners are working to ensure supplies of crude
amid concern that tensions between the West and  Iran  may disrupt
deliveries. Cia. Espanola de Petroleos SA, Spain’s second-
largest refiner, last week secured a guarantee for more crude
from the  United Arab Emirates  if Iranian exports are cut.  “The situation for Iran is getting worse and worse as U.S.
sanctions prevent trade in food, medicine and oil,” said
Manouchehr Takin, an analyst at the Centre for Global Energy
Studies in London. “The Iranians will find ways to get around
it, but it is sad that legitimate trade has become a tool for
politicians. This is the arm twisting of the 21st century.”  Brent crude in London is trading at a nine-month high amid
concern that sanctions against Iran may lead to a reduction in
supply. The contract for April delivery advanced as much as
$1.60, or 1.3 percent, to $124.50 a barrel on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange, the highest since May 4. It was at $122.44 a
barrel as of 3:02 p.m.  London  time.  More Saudi Crude  India , home of the world’s largest refining complex
operated by Reliance Industries Ltd., wants to buy more crude
from Saudi Arabia from 2013, R.P.N. Singh, the country’s junior
oil minister, said today in New Delhi. Indian refiners, who also
use Halk bank for their purchases, have been told that these
services may soon be terminated, four people with knowledge of
the matter said Jan. 10. Halk is the only bank that Turkey uses
for payments of crude.  U.S. sanctions against financial institutions that deal
with Iran take effect at the end of June, while the EU plans to
ban imports of Iranian oil from the beginning of July.  Tupras, owned by  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL) , has a contract to buy 9
million metric tons of crude a year from Iran. The deal for the
supply of 180,000 barrels a day, signed in August, runs for a
year, the company said Dec. 22. The company’s refineries have a
combined processing capacity of 564,000 barrels a day, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Exemption  The Turkish government is asking for the refiner’s Iranian
business with the bank to be exempt from U.S. sanctions, the
Tupras official said today.  Seeking alternative supply, the refiner has increased
purchases from Iraq and Saudi Arabia, he said. The refiner
agreed about two months ago to buy one million tons of crude
from  Libya  for a year, Erol Memioglu, head of Koc’s energy
division, said on Feb. 15. Tupras continues to buy crude from
Iran as there aren’t any sanctions yet and oil imports from
other countries “could be more expensive,” Memioglu said.  Turkey was the sixth-largest importer of Iranian crude
during the first half of 2011, buying 182,000 barrels a day,
according to the U.S. Energy Department. The five biggest were
 China ,  Japan , India, South Korea and  Italy . Iran is the second-
biggest producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries after  Saudi Arabia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raj Rajendran in London at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  