-- UVA Murder Verdict Will Embolden Crime Victims to Come Forward
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y   a n d   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-02-23T19:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/uva-murder-verdict-will-embolden-crime-victims-to-come-forward.html
The guilty verdict in the murder of
 University of Virginia  student Yeardley Love will encourage
crime victims to come forward and highlights the need for
colleges to take action to prevent future acts of violence,
according to women’s advocates.  George W. Huguely V, a former lacrosse player at the
school, was convicted of second-degree murder yesterday in the
2010 beating death of Love, his sometime girlfriend. The jury in
Charlottesville, Virginia, recommended a prison term of 25
years.  “Anytime offenders are clearly and seriously held
accountable, that sends a very strong message to the community
and to victims that these are crimes our nation takes
seriously,” said Terri Poore, policy chair of the  National
Alliance to End Sexual Violence , a Washington advocacy group.
“It will have a chilling effect on offenders and we think more
victims will come forward.”  Love’s murder drew attention to sexual and domestic
violence on college campuses and served as a catalyst to enact
new laws and programs to combat it. In  Virginia , it helped build
momentum for a law  pending in the legislature  that would mandate
coordination between campus and local police, said Kristi
VanAudenhove, co-director of the  Virginia Sexual and Domestic
Violence Action Alliance  in Richmond. It has reinforced the
importance of programs to educate young men on campus about what
is appropriate, she said.  Young men “now have a good sense of what they should not
be doing, and that is a change,” VanAudenhove said in an
interview. “Once you shift the culture, you can change the
behavior.”  ‘Do Something’  Huguely’s conviction may help students feel more
comfortable coming forward and reporting potential domestic
violence incidents on campuses, said Melissa Lucchesi, director
of program services at  Security on Campus Inc. , an advocacy
group based in Wayne,  Pennsylvania .  If bystanders “see something happening and have that gut
feeling when something is off or wrong, this may encourage them
to do something about it,” Lucchesi said in an interview.
Students may be on the fence about whether it’s their business
to report incidents and the verdict “may motivate students to
not just turn their heads,” she said.  Until recently, many colleges and universities didn’t take
the issue of domestic violence seriously, said Poore, of the
 National Alliance  to End Sexual Violence.  “Campuses need to send a strong signal, not just five
minutes in orientation but throughout their policies and
procedures, that these incidents are taken very seriously,”
Poore said.  Title IX  The U.S. Education Department brought the issue into focus
by sending a  letter  to colleges in April 2011, reminding them
that sexual harassment and assault is a civil rights issue
covered by Title IX of the Civil Rights Act, Poore said.  “Bringing the strength of Title IX to the table has been
an important tool to help campuses reprioritize the issue of
addressing sexual violence,” Poore said. “In the last couple
of years, we’ve seen a shift in the nation’s willingness to
really work on this issue.”  Love’s case also gave momentum to the Campus Sexual
Violence Elimination, or SaVE, Act, said Lucchesi at Security on
Campus. The measure, introduced in Congress last year, would
expand federal laws covering the prevention and reporting of
sexual assault on campus to include other forms of violence.  The law would require colleges to count domestic violence
and stalking in their annual statistics, Lucchesi said.  Local Police  Even when schools introduce prevention measures, they don’t
always deter crimes.  Yale University  installed a network of
emergency phones, improved lighting and beefed up security on
its campus after the 1991 murder of student Christian Prince.
The changes didn’t prevent the 2009 murder of graduate student
Annie Le in a campus laboratory by  Raymond Clark , a lab
employee.  While Virginia is taking steps to mandate coordination
between campus and community police, nationally, there is no
requirement for local  law enforcement  officers to notify
colleges if their students are arrested, nearby or far from
campuses.  It isn’t practical to assume that police officers would
discuss someone’s college status, unless they saw a college
identification card in a student’s wallet, said Paul V.
Verrecchia, president of the  International Association of Campus
Law Enforcement Administrators  and assistant vice president and
chief of police at the College of Charleston in  South Carolina .  “It’s a challenge, unless you’re dealing specifically with
college students on a regular basis,” Verrecchia said. “Local
law enforcement is not going to even think to ask the
question.”  Off-Campus Arrest  University of Virginia officials said in 2010 that they
didn’t know of Huguely’s 2008 off-campus arrest for public
intoxication during which he was subdued with a Taser. A hearing
to schedule his sentencing for the Love murder is set for April
16.  Verrecchia said the towns where colleges are located often
have agreements with their local police officials. He said he
hoped the Love murder would make local police generally “more
sensitive to notifying colleges and universities” of arrests of
people who are college age.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net ;
Janet Lorin in New York 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net  