-- Braun Set to Report to Brewers’ Training Camp After Drug Appeal Succeeds
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-02-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/mvp-ryan-braun-wins-appeal-of-50-game-major-league-suspension-for-drug-use.html
Ryan Braun  is scheduled to report
today to the  Milwaukee Brewers ’ spring training camp in Phoenix
after becoming the first  Major League Baseball  player to
successfully appeal a drug suspension.  An arbitration panel yesterday voted 2-1 to overturn the
reigning National League Most Valuable Player’s 50-game ban.  “I’m very pleased and relieved,” Braun said in a
statement. “It’s the first step in restoring my good name and
reputation. We were able to get through this because I’m
innocent and the truth is on our side.”  Braun, 28, was found with a performance-enhancing substance
in his system last year as he was leading the  Milwaukee  Brewers
to the NL Championship Series. He was suspended by MLB and
appealed to the three-member panel.  Rob Manfred , MLB’s executive vice president for labor
relations, issued a statement criticizing the finding of Shyam
Das. The Ardmore, Pennsylvania-based labor arbitrator has been
handling cases for MLB since 1999 and had the deciding vote.  “Major League Baseball vehemently disagrees with the
decision,” Manfred said in the statement e-mailed by MLB.  Braun appeared Jan. 19-20 in New York before the appeals
panel, which also included Manfred and  Michael Weiner , the head
of the players’ union. A reason for overturning the suspension
wasn’t given and Das didn’t respond last night to an e-mail.  Focus of Appeal  Braun’s lawyers focused their appeal on whether the
player’s sample was delivered promptly to a testing laboratory,
the  New York  Times reported.  The newspaper, quoting a person in baseball who requested
anonymity, said the drug test was given on a Saturday during the
playoffs and then kept in the tester’s home refrigerator until
it could be brought to a FedEx shipping center on Monday.  “Since joining our organization in 2005, Ryan Braun has
been a model citizen and a person of character and integrity,”
Brewers owner  Mark Attanasio  said last night in a statement
released by the team. “Knowing Ryan as I do, I always believed
he would succeed in his appeal.”  The drug found in Braun’s system wasn’t identified by MLB.
ESPN said it was synthetic testosterone, a muscle builder. Braun
has denied knowingly using banned substances.  ‘Nothing to Hide’  “We provided complete cooperation throughout,” Braun said
in his statement. “I have been an open book, willing to share
details from every aspect of my life as part of this
investigation, because I have nothing to hide. I have passed
over 25 drug tests in my career, including at least three in the
past year.”  Braun was ranked 31st in January on the Bloomberg
Businessweek Power 100, which measures the performance,
popularity and marketability of athletes in the U.S.  Braun hit 33 home runs and drove in 111 runs last season
after signing a five-year, $105 million contract extension
through 2020. An All-Star each of the past four years, he was
the 2007 NL Rookie of the Year.  Last season, he led the Brewers with a .332 batting average,
trailing only the  New York Mets ’  Jose Reyes  among NL hitters, as
Milwaukee won its first division title since 1982.  Brewers General Manager Doug Melvin said he was glad the
Brewers can begin spring training with Braun.  “As a general manager, you’re pretty excited to know that
we have one of the best players in the game, MVP, back in the
lineup,” Melvin told reporters yesterday in Phoenix. “My job
and responsibility as a general manager is to put the best team
on the field, and the decision allows me to do that a little bit
better.”  Braun accepted his MVP award at the Baseball Writers
Association of America annual dinner in New York in January and
said the drug case was a challenge he would overcome.  “I’ve chosen to view every challenge I’ve ever faced as an
opportunity and this will be no different,” he said. “I’ve
always believed that a person’s character is revealed through
the way they deal with those moments of adversity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  