-- Hospitals Face More Tests to Access U.S. Medical Records Grants
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-02-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/white-house-issues-rules-for-electronic-medical-records-grants.html
Hospitals would have to show they’ve
amassed the vital statistics of more than 80 percent of their
patients in digital form, among other targets, to continue
collecting as much as $14.6 billion in federal grants for
installing electronic records technology sold by  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and smaller suppliers.  Awards of as much as $11.5 million are available to
hospitals that demonstrate “meaningful use” of the equipment,
under preliminary  rules  issued yesterday by the Obama
administration. Doctors can apply for grants of $44,000 or
$64,000, depending on whether they treat patients in Medicare,
the federal health program for the elderly and disabled, or
Medicaid, the program for the poor.  The rules continue carrying out an initiative in the
economic stimulus law enacted in February 2009 as a step toward
overhauling the U.S. health-care system. Hospitals and doctors
should gain “substantial benefits” from adopting digital
records, the government said in the regulatory filing, including
lower record-keeping costs, fewer unnecessary tests, shorter
hospital stays and reduced medical errors.  The proposed rules put the government “in a position to
really move the industry and health care forward,” said Lauren
Fifield, senior policy adviser at  athenahealth Inc . of
Watertown, Mass., which sells the systems.  “Keep the momentum and don’t sort of water the measures
down,” she said, citing 2010 regulations that weakened some
proposed rules for use.  The public has two months to comment on the proposals.  Hospital Adoptions  Many health providers still rely on paper records.
Lawmakers have tried to prod hospitals and doctors into adopting
electronic systems despite a lack of criteria. Preliminary
benchmarks included using electronic systems to enter doctors’
medical orders, check drugs against lists of insurance company
reimbursements and to store patients’ personal data.  The percentage of U.S. hospitals that have adopted
electronic records more than doubled from 2009 to 2011, to 35
percent, according to a survey by the  American Hospital
Association  that the U.S. government reported Feb. 17. About 85
percent of hospitals told the Chicago-based association, the
largest industry trade group, that they intended to take
advantage of government incentives by 2015.  The government expects that by 2019, no less than 96
percent of hospitals will adopt electronic records and at least
36 percent of doctors’ practices.  The grants will be paid in three stages, with rising
requirements that doctors and hospitals show they are using the
technology. Doctors that don’t meet the criteria face a 1
percent reduction in Medicare payments in 2015 rising to 3
percent in 2017. Hospitals would eventually lose annual
increases in their Medicare payments.  GE, based in Fairfield,  Connecticut , has provided interest-
free loans to help furnish hospitals and doctors’ offices.
 Siemens AG (SIE)  also is helping to finance the systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  