-- Why Renters Rule U.S. Housing Market (Part 2): A. Gary Shilling
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2012-02-23T00:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/why-renters-rule-u-s-housing-market-part-2-a-gary-shilling.html
In making my case for continued
housing weakness, I’ve emphasized the negative effect of excess
inventories on house sales, prices, new construction and just
about every other aspect of residential real estate.  In housing, as in every goods-producing sector, excess
inventories are the mortal enemy of prices. Lower prices are
needed to unload surplus inventory, yet they also lead to the
creation of more inventory by anxious sellers. The plight of
house sellers and the reluctance of buyers are made worse by the
realization that  house prices  can fall, and are falling for the
first time in 70 years.  There are about 2 million excess housing units in the U.S.,
over and above normal inventory working levels. Before the
housing collapse began in 2006, housing starts and completions
were volatile but averaged about 1.5 million per year. So a 2
million excess is much more than the previous annual average
 build .  Furthermore, that excess is rising as homeownership
declines as a result of foreclosures, unemployment, inability to
meet  mortgage  standards or reluctance to own a depreciating
asset.  Inventory Count  Many people think that house inventories are coming under
control. They point to the declines in inventories in relation
to sales for new and  existing homes , yet that calculus doesn’t
include the 5 million or so housing units with delinquent
mortgages or those in  foreclosure , much less the additional
troubled loans that are probable in years ahead.  They also don’t include foreclosed vacant houses that
haven’t been listed for sale and vacant units that owners pulled
off the market. These vacancies are included in the Census
Bureau category called “Held off the market for other
reasons,” and they now number 3.6 million, up 1 million from
2006. Falling house prices are associated with declining
residential listings as disappointed sellers retreat in hopes of
higher prices later.  -- Foreclosures Down: New  foreclosures  have dropped
considerably in the last two years, but for temporary reasons.
RealtyTrac Inc. estimates that there were 804,000 bank
repossessions in 2011, down from 1.05 million in 2010.
Nevertheless, the  Federal Housing Administration ’s seriously
delinquent mortgages, often foreclosures in waiting, jumped from
8.2 percent of the loans it guaranteed in June 2011 to 9.6
percent in December.  The federal government encouraged lenders and mortgage
servicers to delay  foreclosures  as modifications were attempted.
There was also the voluntary moratorium on foreclosures during
the robo-signing flap. This pause continued while the five
largest mortgage servicers -- Ally Financial Inc., Bank of
America Corp., Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Wells
Fargo & Co . -- worked on the recent settlement with the federal
government and state attorneys general that called for $25
billion in mortgage writedowns and other aid to homeowners.  -- The Logjam Breaks: With that settlement completed,
mortgage servicers and lenders will probably step up
foreclosures. When they do, the so-called real estate owned --
the properties owned by lenders -- will be dumped on the market
with all deliberate speed.  The effect on prices will be dramatic. The  National
Association of Realtors ’ survey for December 2011 found that
foreclosure sales were at an average price discount of 22
percent, compared with 20 percent in December 2010. Short sales,
in which the lender forgives the difference between the sale
price and the mortgage principal, closed 13 percent below market
value. As of the second quarter of 2011, RealtyTrac found that
real-estate-owned sales were at a huge 40 percent discount while
short sale discounts averaged 12 percent.  These discounts tend to drag down the prices of other
existing houses and force homebuilders to sell properties below
cost in order to compete.  The trigger of renewed foreclosures will probably initiate
another big drop in house prices, returning them to the long-
term trend identified by  Robert Shiller  of  Yale University . This
measure of median single-family-house prices is adjusted for
general inflation and for the tendency of houses to get bigger
over time and therefore more expensive.  With these two corrections, prices in 1990 were about the
same as they were a century earlier. Then came the bubble,
followed by collapse, but it still will take a 22 percent
decline to return  prices  to the flat long-term trend that
prevailed between 1890 and 2000. Because corrections often
overshoot on the downside, our forecast of a further 20 percent
decline may be conservative. That would bring the total peak-to-
trough decline to 46 percent.  -- Spreading Effects: That further drop would have
devastating effects. The  equity  of the average homeowner with a
mortgage has already dropped to 17 percent, from almost 50
percent in the early 1980s, due to home-equity withdrawal and
falling prices. An additional 20 percent price decline would
push homeowner equity into single digits with few  borrowers 
having any appreciable equity left. It would also boost the
percentage of mortgages that are underwater to 40 percent, from
the current 22 percent, according to my calculations. The
existing underwater loans have already created a $750 billion
gap between mortgage principals and house values, according to
CoreLogic Inc. The negative effects on  consumer spending  as well
as mortgages and mortgage-backed derivatives would be
substantial.  -- How Long?: A principal reason that median single-family-
 home prices  are likely to fall an additional 20 percent is that
it will take years to work through the excess house inventory,
giving plenty of time for surplus units to depress values. I
expect housing starts and completions, now about 650,000 at
annual rates, to average 700,000 annually in future years. About
300,000 of those will replace housing units that are torn down
or converted to other uses. So the net supply is about 400,000.  The demand side is determined by net  household formation .
Contrary to popular belief, household formation isn’t closely
correlated with population, at least not in a cyclical time
frame. By definition, a household is one or more people
occupying a separate dwelling unit. So all the forces that make
people want to rent or buy -- house prices, unemployment and
mortgage standards -- play a role.  Household formation is about as volatile as housing starts
and homeownership rates. It surged a decade ago when owning
houses was the route to quick wealth; it dropped as prices
collapsed. In the boom days when house prices increased 10
percent a year, a homeowner with a 5 percent down payment made a
cool 200 percent on his investment each year, neglecting
mortgage interest, maintenance and taxes. And, as a bonus, that
person had a place to live rent-free.  -- Annual Absorption: Household formation in the fourth
quarter of 2011 was 659,000 at annual rates. Over the last
decade, it has averaged about 900,000, a number that seems
reasonable in years ahead. Note, however, that this number may
be on the high side if significant doubling up reduces household
formation. Demand of 900,000 and net supply of 400,000 per year,
as discussed earlier, will absorb 500,000 of the excess
inventory annually. So the 2 million surplus of housing units
I’ve identified will take four years to work off.  That would extend the  bear market  in housing to 2015, a
full 10 years after it started.  One of the biggest contributors to this lengthy resolution
is that Americans, armed with first-hand experience of falling
prices, are beginning to separate their abodes and their
investments. In the days when owners thought house values never
fell, they bought the  biggest homes  they could finance. They now
know otherwise. Further weakness in the prices of single-family
houses and condos due to the depressing effects of excess
inventories will add fuel to the fire.  Contrary to general belief, a  single-family house ,
excluding the effects of increasing size and general inflation,
has been a flat investment for more than a century. Such
properties provide a place to live, but that value is offset, at
least in part, by maintenance, taxes, utilities, real estate
commissions and other costs. Furthermore, even with the tax
deductibility of mortgage interest, renting a single-family
house or apartment is cheaper than owning, absent price
appreciation. This trend will accelerate in the years of
deflation I foresee, when nominal house prices will probably
fall on average.  The separation of abodes from investments should work to
the advantage of rentals in future years, as it has since the
housing bubble burst in 2006.  I’m not suggesting that Americans will give up on single-
family owner-occupied housing. That ambition is too deeply
embedded in our culture. But many will be more inclined to rent,
including empty-nesters who decide to unload their suburban
money pits, especially because their homes are falling in price.  Young couples may decide that because houses are no longer
a great investment, there’s no reason to strain their financial,
physical and emotional resources to buy big, expensive ones as
soon as possible. They’ll stay in rental apartments a bit longer
and wait until their children are of the age that a single-
family house makes sense.  Retiring postwar  baby boomers  -- those who aren’t locked
into underwater mortgages -- are also likely to rent as they
separate their investments from their abodes.  -- Single or Multifamily?: I’ve made the case for about 4
million new renters in the next five years or so. But will they
rent apartments or single-family houses?  Investors are buying foreclosed and other housing units,
most of them single-family. Some did so in 2010, when the new
homeowner tax credit briefly raised prices. They expected to
flip them promptly, but instead became landlords as prices
resumed their decline. Nevertheless, the interest of investors,
who are often all-cash buyers, persists. The  Realtors ’
association reported that in December 2011, 31 percent of all
existing house sales were for cash, 21 percent went to investors
and 31 percent to first-time homebuyers.  For investors, however, managing single-family houses is
challenging. An apartment usually has one or two walls exposed
to the weather, but a single-family house has four plus a yard
to maintain and a roof that can leak.  -- Apartment Building: Even as investors are buying single-
family foreclosed  houses , rising apartment rents and declining
vacancies have spawned a miniboom in multifamily housing starts,
albeit from close to a zero base. Furthermore, some of the
growth may be in anticipation of demand from new retirees.
Multifamily completions have yet to reflect this trend because
it takes about 12 to 18 months to finish an apartment building.  Supply will probably continue to be augmented by
conversions of unsold condos to rental apartments. Will
multifamily housing soon become more overbuilt and end the
increase in rentals and decrease in vacancy rates?  Those in the industry say that until recently, multifamily
developers have been cautious. Tight financing has been one
reason, with lenders providing 50 percent to 60 percent of the
financing, compared with 80 percent in the salad days of 2006.
Also, developers, accustomed to 8 percent to 10 percent
capitalization rates, are reluctant to accept today’s returns of
4 percent to 5 percent. And banks are hesitant to lend to
developers with bad records and favor borrowers with
fortresslike balance sheets.  In addition.  Fannie Mae (FNM)  and  Freddie Mac (NMCMFUS)  have shied away
from multifamily housing after getting stuck with bad apartment
loans they bought in 2007 and 2008 as private lenders withdrew.
The agencies’ share of multifamily loan purchases leaped to 85
percent in 2009, from 29 percent two years earlier. By 2009,
they owned or guaranteed 40 percent of the $325 billion
 multifamily mortgage market .  -- Slow Start: According to Reis Inc., a New York-based
commercial real estate research company, less than 40,000 new
multifamily units were finished in 2011, the lowest number in 30
years. In 2012, Reis expects 72,000 to 85,000 new units. Even
with robust apartment demand, net absorption -- the surplus of
demand over new supply -- fell to 153,000 units in 2011 from
225,000 in 2010. In October of last year, the  National Multi-
Family Housing Council , a trade group, reported that its
National Tightness Index was 56, down from 82 in July and a peak
of 90 in April. A reading above 50 indicates that markets are
tightening.  My industry contact indicates that conditions justify
apartment-building in  some markets , such as  Los Angeles ,  San
Francisco ,  New York ,  Boston ,  Chicago  and  Washington , where
capitalization rates of about 5 percent for Class A buildings
prevail. In many other areas -- such as Detroit and  Cleveland  --
rents don’t justify new construction and capitalization rates of
6 percent to 7 percent for existing apartment buildings are the
rule.  On balance, lender caution will probably curtail any
developer zeal to overbuild rental-apartment buildings for a
number of years, at least in most cities.  -- Single-Family/Apartment Split: It’s difficult to
estimate exactly how the 3.9 million net new renters I forecast
through 2016 will be split between rental apartment dwellers and
renters of surplus single-family homes, but I will venture some
projections. The return of the rental vacancy rate to its
earlier norm of 7.6 percent would provide about 750,000 units.
An additional 1.5 million would result from an increase of
multifamily starts and completions to the earlier norm of
300,000 per year, from the recent annual rates of 200,000. That
would leave 1.7 million to be supplied from single-family
rentals.  These projections are in line with my estimate that the 2
million excess inventories would be eliminated over the next
four years. This consistency suggests that in four or five
years, the housing market will return to normal, with the
ownership rate back to its 64 percent norm and 3.9 million new
rentals supplied by the elimination of excess inventories as
well as the return of multifamily starts and completions to the
earlier 300,000 annual rate.  Single-family starts and completions in this scenario would
continue at current depressed levels of about 400,000 per year,
but the elimination of 1.7 million single-family units in excess
inventory by converting them to rentals would relieve the
downward pressure on prices.  -- Only Projections: These numbers, however, reflect
plausible but uncertain assumptions. A lower homeownership rate
than the 64 percent average is possible now that Americans know
house prices can and do fall. If so, more single-family houses
would probably be converted to rentals and apartment
construction could be stronger. If more people double up,
household formation will be weaker and it will take longer to
work off excess inventories, unless weaker  new residential
construction  provides an offset.  In any event, excess house inventory, over and above normal
working levels, will be gradually worked off over the next four
or five years by new household formation. But about 4 million of
the 4.5 million increase in households will be renters of
apartments or rental single-family houses.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own.  Read Part 1  of the series.)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View.  To contact the writer of this article:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 