-- Why Voters Shouldn’t Trust Their Own Political Party: Ezra Klein
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-02-23T00:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/why-voters-shouldn-t-trust-their-own-political-party-ezra-klein.html
Perhaps my biggest frustration with
the U.S. news media (and yes, I am a card-carrying member) is
that we permit the two parties to decide what is “left” and what
is “right.” The way it works, roughly, is that anything
Democrats support becomes “left,” and everything Republicans
support becomes “right.”  There are good reasons for this. It isn’t the media’s job
to police political ideologies, and it wouldn’t be a good idea
for us to try. But that leaves ordinary voters in a bit of a
tough spot.  The reality is that most Americans aren’t policy wonks.
They don’t sit down with think-tank papers or economic studies
and puzzle over whether it’s better to address the free-rider
problem in health care through automatic enrollment or the
individual mandate. Instead, they outsource those questions to
the political actors they trust.  Unfortunately, those political actors aren’t worthy of
their trust. They’re trying to win elections, not points for
intellectual consistency. So the voters who trust them get taken
for a ride.  Consider the partywide flips and flops of just the past few
years:  -- Supporting a temporary, deficit-financed payroll-tax cut
as a stimulus measure in 2009, as Republican Senator  John McCain 
and every one of his colleagues did, put you on the right.
Supporting a temporary, deficit-financed payroll tax-cut in late
2011 put you on the left. Supporting it in early 2012 could have
put you in either party.  -- Supporting an individual mandate as a way to solve the
health-care system’s free-rider problem between 1991 and 2007
put you on the right. Doing so after 2010 put you on the left.  -- Supporting a system in which total  carbon emissions 
would be capped and permits traded as a way of moving toward
clean energy using the power of market pricing could have put
you on either the left or right between 2000 and 2008. After
2009, it put you squarely on the left.  -- Caring about short-term  deficits  between 2001 and 2008
put you on the left. Caring about them between 2008 and 2012 put
you on the right.  -- Favoring an expansive view of executive authority
between 2001 and 2008 put you on the right. Doing so since 2009
has, in most cases, put you on the left.  -- Supporting large cuts to  Medicare (USBOMDCR)  in the context of
universal health-care reform puts you on the left, as every
Democrat who voted for the Affordable Care Act found out during
the 2010 election. Supporting cuts in the context of deficit
reduction puts you on the right, as Republicans found out in the
1990s, and then again after voting for Representative  Paul Ryan ’s proposed budget in 2011.  -- Decrying the filibuster and considering drastic changes
to the Senate rulebook to curb it between 2001 and 2008 put you
on the right, particularly if you were exercised over judicial
nominations. Since 2009, decrying the filibuster and considering
reforms to curb it has put you on the left.  -- Favoring a negative  tax rate  for the poorest Americans
between 2001 and 2008 could have put you on the right or the
left. In recent years, it has put you on the left.  I don’t particularly mind flip-flops. Consistency is an
overrated virtue. But honesty isn’t. In many of these cases, the
parties changed policy when it was politically convenient to do
so, not when conditions changed and new information came to
light.  There are exceptions, of course. It’s reasonable to worry
about short-term deficits during an economic expansion and
consider them necessary during a recession. That’s Economics
101.  But nothing happened to explain the change from 2006, when
the individual mandate was a Republican policy in good standing,
to 2010, when every Senate Republican, including those who had
previously supported it, agreed it was an unconstitutional
assault on liberty. Nothing, that is, but the Democrats’
adopting the policy in their health-care reform bill.  Flips and flops like these make the labels “left” and
“right” meaningless as a descriptor of anything save
partisanship over any extended period of time. I could tell you
about a politician who supported deficit-financed stimulus
policies and cap-and-trade, and I could be describing McCain. Or
 Newt Gingrich . And I could tell you about another politician who
opposed an individual mandate, and who fought deficits,
expansive views of executive authority and efforts to reform the
filibuster, and be describing Senator  Barack Obama .  Parties -- particularly when they’re in the minority --
care more about power than policy. Perhaps there’s nothing much
to be done about this. And as I said, it isn’t clear that the
media, or anyone else, should try. But it puts the lie to the
narrative that America is really riven by grand ideological
disagreements. America is deeply divided on the question of
which party should be in power at any given moment. Much of the
polarization over policy is driven by that question, not the
other way around.  But the voters who trust the parties don’t know that, and
they tend to take on faith the idea that their representatives
are fighting for some relatively consistent agenda.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 