-- Wienerberger to Diversify Offering to Help Offset Building Cycle
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-02-23T12:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/wienerberger-to-diversify-offering-to-help-offset-building-cycle.html
Wienerberger AG (WIE) , the world’s biggest
brickmaker, plans to diversify further into plastic fittings and
other higher-margin building products to counter homebuilding
swings on traditional bricks and tiles.  Expanding in household fittings, including guttering and
hot and cold plastic pipes, will help Wienerberger tap more of
the renovation market, Chief Executive Officer Heimo Scheuch
said in an interview in  London  today. The traditional clay-tile
and brick businesses will be fine-tuned to  lower costs  and
maximise efficiency, he said.  “We got hit hard in the new-build crisis,” said Scheuch,
who began his career as a lawyer after studying in  France .
“Now, we’re moving down the value chain. It’s going to be a
stronger company with two legs: renovation and new-build.”  Wienerberger is emerging from an overhaul that stripped
away 200 million euros ($266 million) in costs as it sought to
weather the global slowdown and Europe’s debt crisis. The
Austrian brickmaker is in the midst of buying out  Solvay SA (SOLB) ’s
share in an 800 million-euro plastics pipe joint venture.
Sewage and rain-water management account for 45 percent of
Pipelife’s revenue.  Pipelife sells to building-product merchants as well as
through its own outlets in Austria. Monier Group, a former unit
of  Lafarge SA (LG) ,  Uponor Oyj (UNR1V)  of Finland and  Georg Fischer AG (FI/N)  are
among its competitor in the industry.  “That’s the charm of Pipelife, it’s something you can take
and develop,” Scheuch said. “It gives the company another
dimension and room for further growth.”  Strategy Shift  Scheuch’s strategy is a departure from that of his
predecessor, Wolfgang Reithofer, who  acquired  brick and clay
assets to extend Wienerberger’s lead in those markets. It
mirrors that of Mexichem SAB, which this month agreed to buy
Dutch plastic-pipe maker Wavin NV for about $704 million as the
Mexican chemical maker seeks to expand away from commodities
toward materials and products geared for consumers.  Wienerberger returned to  profit  in 2011 after two years of
losses. Scheuch forecasts further profit growth this year. He
declined to be specific. Earnings will get a boost from a
recovery in U.S. operations, which were unprofitable in 2011.
This year, the U.S. division should at least break even, he
said.  Mothballed plants in the U.S. will be kept, and when the
market recovers, it will rebound fast, according to the CEO.
Under Reithofer, Wienerberger had considered  expansion  into
 emerging markets , including Libya, though that ambition is now
taking a back seat to diversification and growth in  Europe ,
especially eastern parts of the region, he said.  The Austrian company, based in Vienna, has  climbed  29
percent this year, giving it a market value of 1.06 billion
euros. The stock was 1.3 percent lower at 9.04 euros as of 12:28
p.m. local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  