-- Two Investors Plead Guilty to Tax Lien Auction Bid-Rigging in New Jersey
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-02-23T18:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/two-investors-plead-guilty-to-tax-lien-auction-bid-rigging-1-.html
Two investors pleaded guilty to
conspiring to rig bids at municipal tax lien auctions in  New
Jersey  and are cooperating in a larger U.S. investigation, the
 Justice Department  said.  The men admitted today after being charged in U.S. District
Court in Newark, New Jersey, that they conspired to eliminate
competition by allocating bids at public auctions by the state’s
566 municipalities. Bidders are supposed to compete fairly for
the right to buy liens and collect taxes on property, with
bidding starting at 18 percent and then going lower.  Robert W. Stein, of Huntington Valley, Pennsylvania, and
David M. Farber, of  Cherry Hill , New Jersey, admitted they
worked to limit competition and buy liens which returned a
higher  interest rate . On Aug. 24, three other people pleaded
guilty to bid-rigging in New Jersey auctions.  “Today’s guilty pleas demonstrate that the Antitrust
Division will not tolerate those who manipulate the competitive
process in order to harm home and property owners,” Sharis A.
Pozen, acting assistant attorney general over the division, said
in a statement.  Stein and Farber admitted violating the Sherman Act. They
face as many as 10 years in prison, although they probably will
get far less time for cooperating in the probe.  Stein was president of  Pennsylvania  corporations,
identified as Company 1 and a successor, Company 2, that bought
New Jersey tax liens from 1996 to 2009, according to court
documents.  ‘Collusive Bids’  From 1998 to 2009, he conspired to eliminate competition by
“submitting non-competitive and collusive bids,” he admitted.
He also admitted attending meetings with co-conspirators who
allocated “which tax liens each would bid on or refrain from
bidding,” according to court papers.  Farber was a partner in DSBD LLC, which managed investments
held by two funds, CCTS Tax Liens I LLC and CCTS Tax Liens II
LLC, court papers show. From 2005 to November 2008, Farber bid
on tax liens held by the funds. For several months after that,
he also bought liens as president of Company 1, court papers
show.  Farber also admitted that he conspired to allocate who bid
on which liens, according to court papers.  The cases are U.S. v. Stein and U.S. v. Farber, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey ( Newark ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 