-- Woman Who Didn’t Testify on Contraceptives Gets Another Chance
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-02-23T19:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/woman-who-didn-t-testify-on-contraceptives-gets-another-chance.html
A  Georgetown University  student who
wasn’t allowed to testify at a U.S. House hearing last week told
a panel of House Democrats about the difficulties that women
face when access to contraceptives is restricted.  Sandra Fluke, a third-year law student, was the sole
witness at an unofficial hearing today on women’s health issues.
House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
arranged the event after Fluke didn’t get a chance to testify at
a Feb. 16 House Oversight and Government Reform hearing.  The official hearing focused on the Obama administration’s
rule that employers, including religious-affiliated groups, must
provide coverage for contraceptives in health-care plans.
Democrats protested that all the witnesses at the Feb. 16
hearing were men.  “Clearly a woman should always have a seat at the table,
unquestionably when the subject is women’s health,” Pelosi
said.  Becca Watkins, a spokesman for Representative  Darrell Issa ,
chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said
Democrats the day before the Feb. 16 hearing had requested two
witnesses, one of whom was Fluke. It is routine for the minority
party to be allowed only one witness, and Issa extended the
invitation to the other Democratic witness, Watkins said.  Fluke today spoke about the need for access to
contraceptives. She is a member of Law Students for Reproductive
Justice, a group at Georgetown University.  “The safety net that women have relied on in the past is
not there,” she said.  Republican presidential candidates criticized the Obama
administration’s rule during a debate in  Arizona  last night.
Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney said Obama was
mounting an “attack on religious conscience.”  “I don’t think we’ve seen in the history of this country
the kind of attack on religious conscience, religious freedom,
religious tolerance that we’ve seen under  Barack Obama ,” Romney
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  