-- Woodside Says Pluto Cash May Fund Buying Back Shell’s Stake
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-02-23T13:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/woodside-is-considering-buying-back-shell-s-24-stake-in-company-ceo-says.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd.,  Australia ’s
second-largest oil producer, is considering buying back  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s holding, valued at $7.7 billion, using cash
from its Pluto liquefied natural gas venture.  Purchasing the shares “is an option,” Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Coleman  said in an interview in Sydney today.
“Woodside is in a very fortunate position over the next 12
months to 18 months. With Pluto coming online we’re going to
start to generate a lot of cash.”  The A$14.9 billion ($15.9 billion) Pluto venture is due to
start exporting LNG next month. Woodside has declined 17 percent
since Shell sold a 10 percent stake for $3.35 billion in
November 2010.  Europe ’s largest oil company plans to dispose of
its remaining 24 percent stake, and a buyback would ease
concerns that the stock may slump further.  Shell (RDSA) ’s interest is “something that’s overhanging the
stock,”  Andrew Williams , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in
 Melbourne , said today by telephone. Woodside is not going to
generate the A$7.2 billion the stake was worth at the close
today so might buy shares in tranches, he said.  Woodside  rose  3.3 percent to A$38.08 at the close of trade
in Sydney, the highest since Aug. 15, while Australia’s
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.2 percent.  ‘Talk to Us’  “We’ve had a dialog with Shell,” Coleman said today.
“We’ve said to Shell: ‘If or when you dispose of the shares,
please come and talk to us,’” he said. “Shell has said:
‘Thanks very much. We’ll let you know when we’re ready.’”  The Hague-based Shell has informed Woodside that it isn’t
in a hurry, Coleman said. “Shell isn’t going to sell their
stake cheaply,” he said. “They know the value of it. Shell has
indicated to us they see Woodside as a value stock.”  Investment in Woodside doesn’t fit with the company’s long-
term plans and the stake will be sold at the right price when
the time is right, Shell Chief Financial Officer Simon Henry
said Feb. 2. “We will manage our stake in Woodside in the
context of our global portfolio,” a Shell spokesman said today.  Woodside faces rising costs and competition from future
exports from  North America  as it seeks to develop more than $70
billion in LNG projects. The Pluto venture is among eight LNG
projects under development in Australia.  The company is “casting a very broad net” as it considers
expansion outside Australia through new partnerships, Coleman
said yesterday after Woodside reported a 4 percent drop in full-
year profit. While the company is studying shale gas, it intends
to keep the focus on LNG and oil, he said.  U.S. Gas Exports  The operator of the North West Shelf LNG development in
 Western Australia  has set up a team to explore the possibility
of international deals, including in the U.S. and  Africa ,
Coleman said today.  Woodside (WPL)  is also evaluating how much LNG the
U.S. may export in the future and its likely impact on
international energy markets, he said.  “It’s clear to us it’s changing the market,” he said.
“It’s providing new opportunities, so at a minimum we need to
understand it, not just from an investment point of view but how
it’s going to affect potentially the markets we’re in.”  He wouldn’t “underestimate the challenges” facing U.S.
LNG projects, Coleman said, raising the prospect of political
opposition to significant exports.  Woodside also has said it is considering selling a stake in
its proposed Browse LNG project. Shell is a Browse partner,
along with Chevron Corp., BP Plc and BHP Billiton Ltd. Woodside
may fetch $1.6 billion selling 16 percent of Browse and lowering
its holding to 30 percent, Citigroup Inc. said Jan. 27.  ‘Long-Term Relationships’  “We didn’t open this up to the broad market and say come
one, come all, because it’s not simply about money,” Coleman
said today. “It’s about value. We want long-term strategic
relationships. That’s why we’ve targeted particular companies
and invited them to talk to us about their interest in Browse.”  China National Petroleum Corp., the country’s biggest
energy producer, offered to buy a stake in the Browse venture,
two people with knowledge of the matter said. CPC Corp.,
 Taiwan ’s state-owned oil refiner, said Feb. 8 that it is in
talks with Woodside to buy a stake of less than 10 percent in
Browse. Mitsui & Co. is also interested in buying a stake,
according to a spokesman for the Japanese trading company.  Woodside found more gas at the Ragnar-1 well to support an
expansion of Pluto, the company said yesterday. Pluto is nearing
completion, with no “material change” to its previous
expectation for exports to begin in March, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  