-- World Bank Resumed Carbon Credit Sales After Fund Missed Higher Prices
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-02-23T14:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/world-bank-resumed-co2-sales-after-fund-missed-higher-prices.html
The World Bank, acting as trustee
for the United Nations Adaptation Fund, resumed sales of UN
emission credits at the start of this month after the fund
missed higher prices at the end of last year.  “The  Adaptation Fund  Board instructed us to restart sales
on Feb. 1,” said Angela Gentile, a bank spokeswoman in
 Washington . “It was not based on  Certified Emission Reduction (BNSCER) 
prices,” she said yesterday by e-mail in response to questions.  The fund, with a secretariat based in Washington, uses
proceeds from the sale of 2 percent of all CERs to help finance
projects that help poor nations adapt to  climate change . It
stopped sales Oct. 5 after attempted thefts of CERs, according
to a  Feb. 3 report  on its website. Its board instructed the
World Bank on Nov. 22 not to sell any more CERs because they
were “still below a defined price level,” which the report
didn’t specify.  By delaying sales, the fund’s stockpile of CERs has
diminished in value as prices fell. UN credits dropped 56
percent to a record-low 3.47 euros ($4.61) a metric ton on Jan.
16 from 7.85 euros on Oct. 5, according to data from BlueNext SA
in Paris, the biggest prompt carbon market. Credits rose 3 cents
to 5 euros as of 3:28 p.m. in Paris.  Refrain, Resume  At a meeting ending Dec. 14, the board, whose chairman is
 Ana Fornells de Frutos  of  Spain , “instructed the bank to
continue to refrain from CER sales until market prices increased
to a level defined by the board,” according to the report. “If
CER prices did not increase to the defined price level set by
the board, by the defined date set by the board, the trustee
would nevertheless resume sales as of that date.”  Fornells de Frutos and  Marcia Levaggi , the Adaptation Fund
manager, didn’t immediately respond to at least two e-mailed
requests for comment since Feb. 20.  CERs are generated under the UN-overseen Clean Development
Mechanism, the world’s biggest offset market.  The resumption on Feb. 1 of sales on BlueNext is in
accordance with the board’s so-called monetization guidelines,
Gentile said.  Since it stopped sales, the fund built up a stockpile of
5.5 million tons of credits, according to the report from the
December quarterly meeting. These are worth 27.5 million euros
at current prices, compared with 43.2 million euros at Oct. 5
prices.  As of Oct. 5 the fund had sold 9.96 million tons of CERs at
an average 12.43 euros a ton, or a total of 123.8 million euros.  ‘No Certainty’  The fund may have 12.6 million to sell this year, based on
historic issuance and UN forecasts, according to the report.
Prices have plunged partly because supply has surged.  The fund may not repeat its suspension of sales, the  World
Bank  said in a Feb. 14 statement, responding to questions from
the fund’s board.  “There is no certainty with respect to future CER
prices,” the bank said, acting in its capacity as trustee. “If
CER prices did not increase after breaching an established floor
price, or kept falling (even gradually), the Adaptation Fund
would risk being out of the market at a time when it may have
been beneficial for regular sales to have continued, even as
prices declined.”  Two thirds of the fund’s expected credits may be from
certain industrial-gas projects, it said. These credits are
banned for use in the European Union carbon market, the world’s
largest, starting May 2013.  The bank  prepared its answers  before a meeting of the
fund’s board in Bonn, scheduled for March 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  