-- Wynn, Okada Hearing in Las Vegas Postponed to March 8
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-02-23T02:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/wynn-resorts-okada-hearing-on-document-request-postponed-to-march-8.html
(Corrects spelling of Okada’s name in first paragraph.)  Lawyers for  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  and
Kazuo Okada, the director whose 20 percent stake in the casino
operator was redeemed by Wynn, won’t be in court tomorrow for a
hearing on Okada’s request for documents.  The hearing was postponed until March 8 at the request of
the lawyers, Mary Ann Price, a spokeswoman for the  Nevada  state
court in  Las Vegas , said today in a telephone interview. Price
couldn’t immediately say which side had asked for the delay.  Clark County, Nevada, District Court Judge Elizabeth
Gonzalez on Feb. 9 declined to rule on Okada’s request for a
court order that, as a director, he was entitled to inspect the
company’s books and records. The judge had ordered lawyers for
Wynn and Okada to return to court tomorrow so she could decide
whether Okada’s request was “reasonable.”  Okada, a billionaire who through his Tokyo-based  Universal
Entertainment Corp. (6425)  held the largest single stake in Wynn, sued
last month, claiming the company hadn’t provided information he
requested about a HK$1 billion ($135 million) pledge to the
University of Macau, the use of $30 million he invested in 2002,
and an amended stockholders agreement.  Las Vegas-based Wynn, which is run by  Stephen Wynn , on Feb.
19 said it redeemed Okada’s 24 million shares for $1.9 billion
and asked him to resign as director, saying he was
“unsuitable.” An investigation had found that Okada appeared
to have paid $110,000 to gaming regulators in the Philippines in
violation of U.S. anti-corruption laws, Wynn said.  Three Hotels  In a separate lawsuit filed Feb. 19, Wynn alleges that
Okada is developing two casinos and three hotels in  Manila  and
that he seeks to lure “high-limit, VIP gamblers” from  China  in
direct competition with Wynn’s casino in Macau. Construction on
the Manila Bay casino resort started Jan. 26, Wynn said in its
complaint.  Okada’s interest in seeking access to Wynn’s books and
records was an attempt to divert attention away from his own
misconduct in the Philippines, Wynn said in the complaint.  Universal said in a Feb. 19 statement that Wynn’s
redemption of the shares because of the Philippines project was
“outrageous.” The company said it will take all legal steps
necessary to protect its investment.  Corporate Funds  Okada said in his Jan. 11 petition for a ruling to inspect
Wynn’s books and records that he objected to the May 2011 pledge
to the University of  Macau  Development Foundation. The $135
million pledge appeared to be unprecedented in the university’s
history and there had been no discussion whether the gift was
appropriate use of corporate funds, according to the petition.  Wynn said Feb. 13 that the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, following Okada’s lawsuit, had asked the company to
preserve information related to the University of Macau donation
“in connection with an informal inquiry.”  Charles Sipkins , a spokesman for Wynn, and Universal
Entertainment spokesman Nobuyuki Horiuchi declined to comment on
the postponement.  The case is Okada v. Wynn Resorts, A-12-654522, Clark
County, Nevada, District Court (Las Vegas.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 