-- Okada Faces Ouster Vote by Wynn Macau Board Over Improper Payment Claims
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-02-23T06:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-23/wynn-macau-to-discuss-removal-of-okada.html
Wynn Macau Ltd. (1128)  will hold an
emergency meeting of its board to discuss removing Japanese
billionaire Kazuo Okada after parent  Wynn Resort Ltd. (WYNN)  accused
him of illegal payments to Philippine gambling regulators.  “I don’t think the time has been confirmed yet, but we are
talking about” an emergency meeting in Macau, said Allan Zeman,
vice chairman of the unit. “I’m still waiting to hear from the
lawyers here.”  Wynn Resorts Chairman and Chief Executive  Steve Wynn  will
convene an emergency meeting with Wynn Macau directors on
Friday, Reuters reported earlier today, citing people it didn’t
identify. Okada, the 69-year-old chairman of  Universal
Entertainment Corp. (6425) , has denied Wynn’s allegation he violated
U.S. laws by making payments to members of the Philippine
Amusement and Gaming Corp.  Universal Entertainment owned 20 percent of Wynn Resorts
through a U.S.-based unit and is building a $2.3 billion
gambling resort in  Manila .  The Las Vegas-based casino operator on Feb. 19 said it
redeemed the Universal unit’s stake for about 30 percent less
than the market price and asked Okada to quit the  board  over the
alleged payments.  Universal reiterated yesterday it will take legal action
against Wynn’s moves, which it called “outrageous.” Nobuyuki
Horiuchi, a spokesman for Tokyo-based Universal, declined to
comment today on the planned emergency meeting in Macau.  Share Performance  Universal Entertainment shares rose 6 percent to 1,800 yen
at the 3 p.m. close of trade in  Tokyo , while Wynn Macau fell 3.1
percent to HK$19.96 as of 2:53 p.m. in Hong Kong.  Prior to Wynn’s forced redemption, Okada had sued the
company to gain access to financial documents related to Wynn’s
HK$1 billion ($129 million) donation to the University of Macau
Development Foundation.  A hearing due today on Okada’s suit over the donation
documents was postponed until March 8 at the request of lawyers,
Mary Ann Price, a spokeswoman for the Nevada state court in  Las
Vegas , said today in a telephone interview.  Charles Sipkins , a
spokesman for Wynn, and Horiuchi declined to comment on the
postponement.  Okada said in his Jan. 11 petition for a ruling to inspect
Wynn’s books and records that he objected to the May 2011 pledge
to the University of Macau Development Foundation. The donation
appeared to be unprecedented in the university’s history and
there had been no discussion whether the gift was appropriate
use of corporate funds, according to the petition.  SEC Inquiry  Wynn said Feb. 13 that the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, following Okada’s lawsuit, had asked the company to
preserve information related to the University of Macau donation
“in connection with an informal inquiry.”  Wynn Resorts accused Okada of violating U.S. anti-
corruption laws and making cash payments and gifts valued at
about $110,000 to Philippine gambling regulators, including
putting up Philippine Amusement and Gaming Corp. Chairman
Cristino Naguiat Jr. in a $6,000-a-day suite in Macau, according
to a report prepared for Wynn Resorts and filed Feb. 19 with a
lawsuit against Okada in state court in  Nevada .  Okada, his associates and companies made three dozen
improper payments, including a four-day stay for Naguiat in the
most expensive room at Wynn Resorts Macau, according to a 47-
page Freeh Sporkin & Sullivan LLP report commissioned by Wynn.
The room, known as Villa 81, covers 7,000 square feet, the
report said.  Payments Detailed  The report details 36 charges between May 2008 and June
2011 when Okada, his associates and companies made payments that
“directly benefited” senior officials of the Philippine gaming
regulator, including two chairmen and their family members. One
payment, for $4,642, benefited Jose Miguel “Mike” Arroyo, the
husband of former Philippines President  Gloria Arroyo , according
to the report.  Philippine lawmakers may investigate the gifts received by
Naguiat, Congressman Teddy Casiño said by phone in Manila today.
Casiño said he will file a resolution to open the inquiry today
or tomorrow. There was “nothing inappropriate” about the
accommodations, Naguiat said yesterday, calling it an “industry
practice.”  Fitch ratings affirmed its ’BB’ issuer default rating on
Wynn Resorts, while it revised its outlook on Wynn Resorts to
“stable” from “positive,” according to its statement today.  “The major risk is that investigations surrounding the
dispute reveal unsuitable conduct with respect to Wynn, thereby
jeopardizing its existing gaming licenses, or its potential
attractiveness as a bidder in new gaming market opportunities,”
Fitch said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  