-- Apple IPhone to Be Sold by T-Mobile in 2013
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-12-06T22:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/t-mobile-usa-reaches-agreement-to-sell-apple-products-in-2013.html
T-Mobile USA Inc. will begin offering
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone next year, becoming the last of the four
largest U.S. carriers to offer the best-selling device.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , T-Mobile’s parent, disclosed the
agreement to sell Apple products in 2013 in a statement today.
Larger U.S. competitors Verizon Wireless,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  all sell the iPhone.  The iPhone, once offered exclusively by AT&T in the U.S.,
has evolved into one of the most widely available handsets in
the country. Adding Apple’s device may help T-Mobile lure more
customers to long-term contracts and hold on to more
subscribers.  “A certain number of people wouldn’t come to our stores if
we didn’t have the iPhone,” T-Mobile Chief Executive Officer
John Legere said. “We worked very hard for a deal that made
sense for us.”  The iPhone is the No. 1 smartphone in the U.S., outselling
all handsets using Google Inc.’s Android software combined in
the 12 weeks through Oct. 28,  according  to Kantar Worldpanel
ComTech. The agreement with Apple will add to T-Mobile’s profit
and cash flow starting in 2014, said Legere, speaking at an
investor summit in Bonn today.  Without the iPhone, T-Mobile has struggled to keep
customers from choosing other carriers. T-Mobile has  lost  1.03
million monthly contract customers, or more than 4 percent of
its subscriber base, since the end of last year.  T-Mobile had 8.7 percent of U.S. contract customers at the
end of 2011, according to Bloomberg Industries research.  iPhone Impact  A year ago, Sprint became Apple’s third U.S. carrier
partner when it agreed to a four-year, $15.5 billion commitment
to sell 25 million to 30 million iPhones. Due to the heavy
discounts carriers place on smartphones to lure customers into
two-year contracts, the initial cost of iPhone sales have cut
into profit margins.  T-Mobile’s agreement with Apple isn’t as extensive as
Sprint’s, Legere said.  “This is not a volume commitment of the size that Sprint
agreed to or anything close to it,” he said. “This device
rollout will be a dramatically different experience,”  Deutsche Telekom, based in Bonn,  slid  0.5 percent to 8.58
euros at the close in  Frankfurt . Cupertino, California-based
Apple rose 1.6 percent at $547.25 in New York.  Installment Plan  Legere said he plans to position T-Mobile as the “Un-
Carrier” to disrupt the industry. Part of the strategy is for
T-Mobile to start offering new smartphones on installment plans
next year rather than selling them with heavy discounts. The
move will help T-Mobile avoid absorbing $200 to $250 in price
cuts on the average phone sale, Legere said.  T-Mobile will soon start an “in-your-face” style
advertising campaign aimed at the larger carriers, Legere said.
That theme highlights some of the competitive tension coming to
the U.S. market as the iPhone playing field becomes more level,
said Craig Moffett, an analyst with Sanford C Bernstein & Co.  “A T-Mobile iPhone is good news for Apple, good news for
T-Mobile, and good news for consumers. But it’s bad news for
everybody else,” said Moffett. “By ‘everybody else,’ I mean
Sprint, AT&T, and Verizon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  