-- Top Cyclists Not Necessarily Helped by EPO, Study Says
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-12-06T10:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/-no-evidence-epo-boosts-cyclists-performance-study.html
Using erythropoietin, or EPO, to
improve results in elite cycling races such as the  Tour de
France  is pointless, according to a Dutch study that looks at
existing research.  The study, published today in the  British Journal of
Pharmacology , looked at 13 studies conducted between 1991 and
2010. The authors concluded that there is “no scientific
evidence that it does enhance performance, but there is evidence
that using it in sport could place a user’s health and life at
risk.”  EPO is an endurance-boosting hormone that stimulates red-
blood cell production, which may improve the amount of oxygen
carried to muscles. It is used to treat people with anemia but
was banned in sports by the  International Olympic Committee  in
1990. A test for EPO was introduced at the 2000 Sydney Olympics,
according the website of the  World Anti-Doping Agency , known as
WADA.  The use of EPO has been rife in cycling. In 1998, the
Festina team was thrown out of the Tour de  France  -- the sport’s
most grueling and prestigious race -- after its coach was caught
with banned performance-enhancing drugs including EPO. In
August, the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency stripped American cyclist
 Lance Armstrong  of his seven Tour de France titles and banned
him for life for using prohibited substances. In October, the
agency, known as USADA, said the Texan had used drugs including
EPO and testosterone throughout his cycling career.  ‘Rather Naive’  “An elite cyclist runs on technique, on muscle power which
is supplied by oxygen and glucose and amino acids and foods, on
team tactics, on weather, on millions of things,” lead
researcher  Adam Cohen  said in an interview. “To assume that one
of these factors, which is delivery of oxygen to tissue, is
going to clinch the whole thing, is rather naïve.”  Cohen is a professor in clinical pharmacology based at the
 Centre for Human Drug Research  in Leiden, the Netherlands.  “EPO has been the subject of much research with regards to
its physiological effects and potential consequence on human
performance,” WADA director general David Howman said in an e-
mail to  Bloomberg News .  “WADA is totally satisfied with the credibility of this
research and consequently EPO is prohibited under section 2.1 of
the list of prohibited substances and methods,” he added.  More Testing  “Most of the research has been done on people who aren’t
actually elite cyclists,” Cohen said. He called for more
testing to be done on professional athletes and better education
regarding health risks such as blood clots that may result in a
stroke or heart attack.  The lack of evidence to support EPO boosting performance in
elite athletes may serve as a better prevention measure than
current anti-doping methods, Cohen said.  “If you assume that Mr. X. was actually a mediocre cyclist
and became very good just by injecting stuff, that seems
premature,” Cohen said. “Once you start explaining that to
people, and they believe you on the basis of data, they are
probably less willing to do these sorts of things. So in the
prevention, it is better than trying to chase these people to
their homes, extract urine at unexpected moments and hope that
you find something. It costs an enormous amount of money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  