-- Adelsons Donated $33 Million in Final Weeks of Campaign
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-12-07T18:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/adelsons-fueled-pro-romney-late-spending-with-10-million.html
Casino executive  Sheldon Adelson  and
his wife Miriam contributed $33 million to two super-political
action committees in a last-ditch effort to elect Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney .  Adelson, chairman of the  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , and his
wife, a physician, gave $23 million to American Crossroads and
$10 million to Restore Our Future in the last three weeks of the
presidential race, Federal Election Commission filings show.
President  Barack Obama  won re-election Nov. 6 with 332 electoral
votes to Romney’s 206.  The last-minute giving raised the Adelsons’ donations to at
least $87 million, including an earlier $10 million contribution
to Restore Our Future, the super-PAC backing Romney, according
to the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based
research group. The figures don’t include any contributions they
made to nonprofit organizations that don’t disclose their
donations.  Their first donations to American Crossroads, the super-PAC
guided by Republican political strategist  Karl Rove , made the
Adelsons the largest contributors to the committee for the
period Oct. 18-Nov. 26. Also during that period Harold Simmons
and the Dallas-based Contran Corp., which he is chairman of,
gave a combined $4 million to the group, bringing their total to
$21.5 million. Houston homebuilder Bob Perry also donated $1
million, for a total of $8.5 million.  American Crossroads raised $37 million in the campaign’s
final weeks, bringing its total to $117 million. The super-PAC
spent $42 million in the last three weeks of the campaign, more
than one-third of its total outlay on the 2012 presidential and
congressional races, and had $1.5 million in the bank as of Nov.
26.  Final Spending  Restore Our Future’s spending during the campaign’s final
three weeks represented 30 percent of the $153 million it spent
on behalf of Romney.  The super-PAC had about $840,000 left in its account as of
Nov. 26 after raising a total of $154 million. Lawrence Ellison,
chief executive officer of  Redwood City , California-based  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL) , contributed $3 million, as did Robert McNair, owner of
the Houston Texans football team, who was also a last-minute $1-
million giver to American Crossroads.  Priorities USA Action, the super-PAC backing Obama, spent
$21 million in the campaign’s last three weeks, bringing its
total spending to $75 million. It raised $79 million and
reported $4.3 million in the bank as of Nov. 26.  James Simons , chairman of Renaissance Technologies LLC, an
East Setauket, New York-based hedge fund, contributed $1.5
million to the group during the campaign’s final phase, bringing
his total to $5 million; and media executive Fred Eychaner, a
longtime donor to Democrats, gave $1 million, bringing his total
to $4 million.  Labor Cash  The Laborers’ Union donated $1 million, and the super-PAC
received $500,000 apiece from unions representing teachers,
communications workers, electrical workers and letter carriers.  Spending by campaigns, political parties and the super-PACs
in the final stretch ensured that the presidential campaign
would cost more than $2 billion. This was the first White House
race in which neither nominee accepted public funding for the
general election and the first to feature super-PACs, which can
take in unlimited donations.  FEC filings also showed the  National Republican Senatorial
Committee  sent $760,000 in the first two days of November to the
Missouri Republican Party, which spent almost the same amount on
television ads for the Senate bid of Representative Todd Akin.
That represented a shift by NRSC chairman Senator  John Cornyn  of
Texas, who had said he was cutting off funds to Akin after the
candidate said in August that “legitimate rape” rarely leads
to pregnancy.  Akin Support  Republicans had pressed Akin to leave the race, and Cornyn
said “we’re done” in a September interview. Akin lost by 16
percentage points to Democratic incumbent  Claire McCaskill . An
NRSC spokesman,  Brian Walsh , declined to comment last night.  In the presidential race, Romney spent $105 million in the
final weeks of the campaign, bringing his total for the election
to $466 million, according to the FEC filings submitted
yesterday. During the final stretch, he spent $60 million on
media, $7 million on direct mail and $6.3 million on online ads.  The former Massachusetts governor also continued to pay
down the $20 million loan his campaign took out in August to
cover spending until he formally became the party’s nominee. The
campaign now owes $1.2 million.  Romney raised $66 million during the campaign’s final
weeks, including $33 million transferred from a joint account
with the  Republican National Committee  and some state parties.
That brought his fundraising total for the race to $479 million.  Romney Debt  Romney’s campaign committee reported a balance of almost
$13 million as of Nov. 26. A campaign spokeswoman,  Gail Gitcho ,
said bills yet to be paid will absorb virtually all of the
unspent cash.  Obama spent $176 million in the final weeks -- including
$107 million for broadcast, cable and online advertising --
bringing his total to $729 million. In the days before the
election, the campaign transferred $762,000 to the Ohio
Democratic Party, $636,000 to the Florida Democratic Party and
$545,000 to the Pennsylvania Democratic Party. Obama won all
three states.  Bonus Payments  The Obama committee made bonus payments totaling $171,375
on Nov. 23 to four senior campaign aides. Campaign manager  Jim Messina  received $68,550, and deputy campaign managers  Stephanie Cutter , Julianna Smoot and Jennifer O’Malley Dillon each
received $34,275.  Obama raised $88 million, including $26.5 million from a
joint effort with the  Democratic National Committee  and state
parties, bringing his fundraising total to $733 million.  The president had $5.4 million left to spend as of Nov. 26
and $7.2 million in unpaid bills.  Both nominees continued to take in money from the sources
that helped filled their coffers throughout the campaign,
according to a computer-assisted analysis of FEC data.  Employees of  Google Inc. (GOOG)  donated almost $103,000 to Obama
while  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  employees gave almost $97,000 to the
president. Romney received almost $103,000 from employees of
 Bank of America Corp.  and more than $72,000 from  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
employees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 