-- Mahathir to Campaign for Najib in Shift From 2008 Malaysia Vote
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-12-07T04:47:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/mahathir-to-campaign-for-najib-in-shift-from-2008-malaysia-vote.html
Mahathir Mohamad,  Malaysia ’s longest-
serving leader, will hit the campaign trail to help Prime
Minister Najib Razak’s ruling coalition win a 13th straight
general election after sitting out during the 2008 vote.  “I have promised that I will campaign,” Mahathir, 87,
said in a Dec. 5 interview in Putrajaya, Malaysia’s
administrative center near Kuala Lumpur. “I don’t know whether
I have enough influence or not, but I think people still
remember me.”  Mahathir led calls for Abdullah Ahmad Badawi to resign
after the National Front coalition won the last election by its
narrowest margin since independence in 1957. Najib, who took
over as leader in 2009, told a party congress last week that he
aims to restore the alliance’s two-thirds majority in parliament
during the next election, which must be held within 60 days of
an April 28 deadline to dissolve parliament.  Najib’s ruling United Malays Nasional Organisation is
seeking to stave off a challenge from the opposition alliance
led by Anwar Ibrahim, a former finance minister who Mahathir
fired in 1998 during an Asia-wide financial crisis. The party is
more aware of the opposition’s strength than in 2008 and has
moved to win back support with budget handouts and political
reforms, according to Ooi Kee Beng, deputy director of the
Institute of Southeast Asian Studies in  Singapore .  ‘Payback Period’  “It’s Najib’s to lose,” Ooi said by phone from Singapore,
referring to the next election. “He does have a certain
advantage of incumbency. Just like 2008, a lot will depend on
the nominations and campaigning. Things can shift very
quickly.”  Mahathir, while predicting a win for Najib’s coalition,
questioned whether it was possible to regain the two-thirds
majority in the 222-member parliament, which allows legislation
to be passed easily. Mahathir led the National Front to five
consecutive victories as prime minister before retiring in 2003.  “This is payback period for me,” Mahathir said. “I must
admit, I didn’t support during the last election.”  Anwar’s three-party People’s Alliance opposition coalition
made gains in the 2008 election, winning control of five of
Malaysia’s 13 states. The National Front, also known as Barisan
Nasional, later won back Perak state when several lawmakers
defected.  In 1998, soon after Mahathir ousted him, Anwar was arrested
and imprisoned for almost six years on corruption and sodomy
charges, which he said were politically motivated. Malaysia’s
Federal Court quashed the sodomy conviction in 2004, while
upholding the corruption charge. He denies wrongdoing.  ‘Go Quietly’  Najib’s ruling coalition will transfer power peacefully to
Anwar if it loses the next election, Mahathir said. The police,
military and civil servants are professionals who would back any
elected government, he said.  “It will go quietly,” Mahathir said, referring to the
National Front. “I have been preaching to people about
democracy, even to the Arabs. I tell them if you want to have
democracy you must be prepared to lose.”  Najib, 59, cut income taxes, boosted pay for government
workers and extended cash handouts for the poor in his 2013
budget announced in September. While the global economy has
slowed, Malaysia has maintained  gross domestic product  growth
above 5 percent for the past five quarters and its benchmark
stock  index  closed at a record in October.  Unrest Concerns  The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index was little changed at
12:30 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur today. It has risen 5.6 percent this
year, Southeast Asia’s worst performing leading benchmark gauge.  A disputed vote could trigger civil unrest that would
involve the intervention of the king and a group of royals that
have constitutional powers to appoint elected leaders, according
to James Chin, a professor of political science at the Malaysian
campus of  Australia ’s Monash University. Much depends on the
margin of victory, he said by phone.  “There will be problems if it is razor thin and it is
disputed,” he said, referring to the election outcome. “We
don’t really know what will happen because we’ve never had a
change of government in Malaysia.”  The National Front held a clear two-thirds majority for
four decades until 2008. The last time it lost two-thirds
control of parliament was in the 1969 election, which was
followed by race riots.  Asked if there could be civil or religious unrest should
the National Front fall, Mahathir said: “There will be some,
but not the kind of violent unrest like demonstrating every day.
If every time you lose you want to hold strikes and
demonstrations, that means you don’t understand democracy. You
have to accept losing.”  Mahathir said he has traveled the country to urge UMNO
party members against sabotaging the vote if they are not
selected as candidates to stand in the election, echoing Najib’s
warning last week.  “I told them that this is committing suicide,” Mahathir
said. “You don’t do that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  