-- Air Arabia Rallies on Earnings, Expansion Outlook: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-12-06T14:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/air-arabia-rallies-on-earnings-expansion-outlook-dubai-mover.html
Air Arabia PJSC (AIRARABI)  rose to the highest
level in nine months on bets full-year results at the Middle
East’s biggest no-frills airline will beat estimates as it
expands into new locations and benefits from lower fuel costs.  Shares of the company, whose third-quarter profit more than
doubled, advanced 2.2 percent to 74.1 fils at the close in
Dubai. The stock was the  most traded  on Dubai’s  DFM General
Index (DFMGI)  today by volume, trimming the measure’s decline to 0.1
percent. The company may post a 38 percent increase in 2012
profit to 370 million dirhams ($101 million), according to the
mean estimate of seven analysts on Bloomberg.  “Air Arabia continues to demonstrate solid operational
growth, accompanied by strong management ability,” said Tariq Qaqish, deputy head of asset management at Al Mal Capital. The
broadening of flight destinations and fleet expansion amid lower
costs “will help the company grow its topline and expand its
net margins,” he said.  Air Arabia, which competes with Dubai state-owned FlyDubai,
started flights to Basra,  Iraq  after earlier this year adding
Erbil as well as Peshawar, Pakistan and Ufa,  Russia  to its list
of destinations. The budget airline may open a hub in  India ,
Chief Executive Officer Adel Ali said in Mumbai in October. The
company also added aircraft to bases in Morocco and Egypt after
it captured a rebound in demand for travel following last year’s
so-called Arab Spring, Ali said in March.  Air Arabia’s  shares  have rallied 26 percent in 2012,
compared with a gain of 19 percent for the benchmark  stock
index . The company trades at a price to earnings of 8.3 times,
compared to 11.6 times for the DFM General Index.  Passenger traffic at Sharjah International Airport, Air
Arabia hub, rose 21 percent in October, according to data on
airport’s website. Crude has dropped 11 percent so far this year
as  Europe ’s debt crisis worsened.  Seven analysts  recommend investors buy the shares of Air
Arabia, while four have a hold rating on the stock and one says
sell, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  