-- Air Canada Shops for Jets as Return to Profit Is Forecast
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-12-06T21:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/air-canada-shops-for-jets-as-return-to-profit-is-forecast.html
Air Canada is considering purchases
of mid-sized jets amid growing confidence the country’s biggest
carrier will be profitable next year after an anticipated  fifth 
straight loss.  Talks are under way with Boeing Co., Airbus SAS and
 Bombardier (BBD/B)  Inc. for more than 100 aircraft, Chief Commercial
Officer  Ben Smith  said in a telephone interview. A decision to
buy planes may come “in the short term,” Smith said last week,
sooner than the one-year timeline the airline gave on Nov. 8.  Adding single-aisle models with the latest fuel-saving
technology that can carry about 150 passengers could help Air
Canada shed its status as  North America ’s least-efficient
carrier. Its fleet is twice as old as that of discounter  WestJet
Airlines Ltd. (WJA) , which Montreal-based Air Canada is challenging by
creating a low-cost unit.  “It’s always a good sign when they’re thinking about new
plane orders,” said John Braive, vice chairman at CIBC Global
Asset Management, which holds Air Canada bonds among C$40.6
billion ($40.9 billion) of Canadian fixed-income assets. “Your
aircraft are starting to get older. You do have to upgrade to
the newer type of planes, which have better wings, more room for
passengers, better  fuel efficiency .”  The widely traded Class B  shares  have soared 65 percent to
C$1.79 since July 30, the day a federal arbitrator let Air
Canada implement a pilot contract to help pave the way for the
as-yet-unnamed low-cost business.  ‘Profitable Growth’  Chief Executive Officer Calin Rovinescu now has “a higher
degree of comfort around what his cost lines are going to be,
what his constraints are,”  Walter Spracklin , an RBC Capital
Markets analyst, said in a telephone interview from Toronto.
“Air Canada is entering a new phase of profitable growth.”  Analysts expect a return to profit in 2013, based on
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Air Canada is in talks with the
government about a possible delay to the January 2014 deadline
for restoring pension contributions to their usual level. The
airline has said its Canada-based unions support an extension.  “We’re continuing our discussions,” Canadian Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  told reporters yesterday in Ottawa.  The current narrow-body fleet consists of 88 planes from
Airbus’s A320 family, along with 60  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  regional jets.
The smallest of those planes, 15 E175s, will be shifted next
year to feeder carrier Sky Regional Airlines Inc. for use on
short-haul routes in Canada and the U.S.  2005 Order  Air Canada’s last major order came in 2005, when it bought
wide-body  Boeing (BA)  777s and 787s. Any new single-aisle deliveries
probably wouldn’t come until the end of this decade, Smith said.  Boeing says its 737 Max with new engines will have a 19
percent fuel-use advantage over the current A320. Airbus is
reworking that plane into the A320neo for a 2015 debut that
would beat the Max’s 2017 arrival. Bombardier’s first CSeries
will probably enter service in mid-2014.  “Neo, Max and the CSeries are all very exciting
airplanes,” Smith said. “We are studying them very closely.
There are fuel-efficiency levels that we’ve never seen, costs
that are much lower. But, of course, there are high  capital
costs  to bring these airplanes in.”  The latest Boeing and Airbus narrow-bodies list for about
$100 million each, though airlines typically buy at a discount.
Bombardier’s smaller CSeries planes retail for $61.8 million to
$70.6 million, depending on the model.  Fleet ‘Backbone’  The A320s are “the backbone of our North American fleet,”
said Smith. “It’s a tall order to replace them.”  Counting all aircraft, Air Canada’s 204 planes average 12.1
years of age, topping WestJet’s 5.8-year average, according to
the carrier’s website and data compiled by Bloomberg. The first
A320s joined the  fleet  in 1989, followed by the A319 version in
1996 and the A321 in 2001, according to Air Canada’s website.  “The concept of fleet renewal makes sense,”  Chris Murray ,
a PI Financial Corp. analyst, said by telephone from Toronto.
“It’s a classic case of long-term planning. But it’s an
appropriate time to start it. The narrow-body age right now
isn’t bad but by the end of the decade they will be toward the
end of their lives.”  Survival, not new planes, has been a focus for Air Canada
in recent years.  Annual Losses  Annual losses starting in 2008 and estimated by analysts to
extend into this year rekindled speculation about a return to
bankruptcy after the airline’s 2004 exit. Costs for each seat
flown a mile, an industry benchmark, have been North America’s
highest, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts
project a 2012 adjusted loss of 20 Canadian cents a share, the
average of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Liabilities totaled C$13.3 billion as of Sept. 30. The
amount includes current liabilities of C$3.4 billion, long-term
debt and finance leases of C$3.6 billion, and C$5.3 billion in
pension liabilities.  “They are still highly levered, but the pension relief
means they are going to be in a better position,” David Tyerman, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity, said by telephone from
Toronto. He and Murray rate the shares a buy, and RBC’s
Spracklin recommends the stock as outperform.  Air Canada (AC/A) ’s bonds also have rallied since the July 30
arbitrator’s decision, which imposed the airline’s last contract
offer on pilots. That ruling let Air Canada proceed with its
proposed low-cost unit.  Spread Narrows  The spread on the 9.25 percent notes due August 2015 has
narrowed 245 basis points, or 2.45 percentage points, to 609
basis points more than government debt since July 30, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority. Peers in a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index of U.S. and Canadian high-yield bonds
narrowed 59 basis points to 557 basis points in the same period.  While Air Canada hasn’t disclosed wage details for the low-
cost unit, Rovinescu has said the carrier may be patterned after
 Qantas Airways (QAN)  Ltd.’s Jetstar. Average pay for Jetstar captains
and second officers amounted to about 42 percent of Qantas’s
level, Spracklin said in a Nov. 30 note to clients.  The low-cost service will start in June with four planes,
and  Air Canada (AC/B)  projects the unit eventually may reach 50. Air
Canada also will take deliveries of two 777s next year, followed
in 2014 by the first of the Dreamliners, for which the original
order was almost doubled to 37 planes as the airline starts the
biggest international expansion in its 75-year history.  “It’s going to elevate the  capital expenditures  and
further increase the debt” even with some financing in hand,
Darren Kirk, senior credit officer at Moody’s Investors Service
in Toronto, said of the new twin-aisle jets. “There will be
some time before they see the benefits of these aircraft.”  Air Canada’s Smith said a potential single-aisle order
“has to financially make sense for us.”  “We have to make sure that the math works,” he said.
“Planes aren’t cheap. We have well over 100 narrow-body
aircraft, and we’d like to ensure that whatever we buy can carry
us through for many years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  