-- Akamai Shares Jump After AT&T Sales Agreement
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-12-06T21:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/akamai-shares-jump-after-at-t-sales-agreement.html
Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM)  rose the
most in more than four months after forging a deal with  AT&T
Inc. (T)  to provide the carrier’s business customers with so-called
content-delivery services.  Shares of Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Akamai gained 10
percent to $39.06 at the close in New York, the largest jump
since July 26, after the former rivals in video and data-
delivery business said they plan to jointly sell and manage the
service. Akamai is up 21 percent this year.  AT&T, the largest U.S. phone company, plans to sell
business users the Akamai service as part of its expanding
Internet offering that includes data-center information storage
and cloud computing, said  Fletcher Cook , an AT&T spokesman.
Content-delivery services offer businesses fast, efficient
transport of massive data packages, such as video and Web
applications.  “AT&T is pairing up with arguably the best name in this
business and it allows them to simplify their product
offerings,” said  Chris Larsen , an analyst with Piper Jaffray &
Co. in New York.  While the pact is a reselling agreement, it will be offered
as a feature integrated into AT&T’s network, said Cook. The
contract with Akamai is a multiyear deal, said Cook, who
declined to disclose the terms.  “The deal allows Akamai to leverage the huge enterprise
sales force of AT&T,” said Kevin Roe, of Roe Equity Research
LLC, based in Dorset,  Vermont .  Akamai will seek more partners around the world for
agreements like the one with AT&T, said Brad Rinklin, chief
marketing officer.  “Our goal is to bolster the amount of money we get through
our partner strategy. You’ll see a number of different things,”
Rinklin said. Akamai already partners with about 1,000 networks
and is working to find which ones can sign on to more
significant deals like that with AT&T, he said.  AT&T, based in  Dallas , fell less than 1 percent to $33.65.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  