-- Alcatel-Lucent’s 25-Year Presence in CAC 40 Ended by Gemalto
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-12-07T08:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/alcatel-lucent-leaves-cac-40-after-25-years-as-gemalto-joins.html
Gemalto NV (GTO) , the smart-card maker
whose market value has almost doubled this year, will replace
 Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  in the CAC 40, putting an end to the
unprofitable network-equipment vendor’s 25-year presence in
France’s leading stock index.  The change, effective Dec. 24 according to an  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
statement, marks a milestone for Gemalto, whose next move will
be to seek a secondary listing on the Amsterdam exchange in 2013
to increase the stock’s liquidity, Chief Executive Officer
Olivier Piou said in an interview. A listing in the U.S. or  Asia 
may be considered later, he said.  “Joining the CAC 40 means increased visibility and more
financing opportunities if we ever need them,” Piou said.
“It’s proof that you can do business in  France , take risks, and
get recognition for seeing your plans through.”  Alcatel-Lucent, the former industrial giant whose
operations once ranged from spaceflight to cutting-edge
theoretical physics, was part of the CAC 40 since the index’s
creation in 1987. Declining demand for networking gear and Asian
competition have caused mounting losses for the company created
from the 2006 merger of Alcatel SA and Lucent Technologies.  Since 2008  Shares of Amsterdam-based Gemalto climbed 0.8 percent to
74.59 euros at 9:29 a.m. in Paris, the highest level since the
company’s listing in May 2004.  Alcatel-Lucent, based in the French capital, fell 1.9
percent to 87 cents. Its market value has shrunk by about 70
percent since Ben Verwaayen, a 60-year-old former  BT Group Plc (BT/A) 
executive, became CEO in September 2008. At 2 billion euros, the
market capitalization is less than a third of Gemalto’s.  The rest of the benchmark will stay the same, NYSE Euronext
said yesterday after the market close and following its
quarterly review of the CAC 40’s members. Decisions on the
index’s composition are based on data about free float, market
value and volumes.  Exiting the CAC adds to Alcatel-Lucent’s list of recent
setbacks. Moody’s Investors Service this month cut the company’s
 debt rating  further into junk. Alcatel last month reported a
second straight quarterly loss and said it was considering asset
sales to bolster its finances.  Goldman Financing  Management changes, cost cuts and assets sales have so far
failed to stem Alcatel’s consumption of billions of euros in
cash, leaving CEO Verwaayen fighting to obtain financing from a
group of banks led by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  amid a wide-
ranging overhaul that will probably require deeper job cuts and
major asset sales, people familiar with the matter have said.  “Alcatel-Lucent continues to be listed and traded on the
Paris and  New York  stock exchanges, and this news does not
impact that,” said Simon Poulter, a spokesman for the company.
“We are aggressively driving the performance program to rescale
Alcatel-Lucent, reduce our cost base by 1.25 billion euros by
the end of 2013, and install sustainable profitability for the
long term.”  Piou, who happens to be an Alcatel-Lucent  board member ,
said the gear maker’s priorities today were its clients, its
financial health and its employees.  “Board meetings don’t discuss indices,” Piou said. “That
applies to Gemalto too. Joining the CAC 40 is a reward but it’s
obvious you have to have the business plans to back it all up.”  Technology Representation  Gemalto’s entry keeps the CAC’s share of technology stocks
stable, with  Cap Gemini SA (CAP) , a computer-services company and
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  competitor, and  Europe ’s
largest semiconductor maker  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  making up the
remainder.  Joining the CAC marks the latest milestone for Gemalto
chief Piou, a 54-year-old engineer who has been running the
company since the 2006 merger of Gemplus and Axalto and has
returned Gemalto to  profit .  Under Piou, Gemalto has shifted revenue from older
commoditized smart chips to new security technology, in a bet
that contactless mobile payment and so-called machine-to-machine
transmissions will increase.  Piou is in the process of drafting a new strategy to be
unveiled next year after he forecast Gemalto will reach its 2013
target ahead of plan.  Piou said today the company doesn’t need any financing to
execute its plans, though the extra visibility from listings
elsewhere in Europe, the U.S. or Asia may create partnership
opportunities.  “It’s where our historical know-how and our research and
development is,” Piou said. “It’s obvious we’re still keen on
keeping our Paris-listing. France is home for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  