-- AMD Cuts Chip Orders From Globalfoundries Amid PC Slump
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-12-07T21:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/amd-cuts-chip-orders-to-globalfoundries-amid-pc-slump.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , the
second-largest maker of personal-computer processors, reduced
chip orders from supplier Globalfoundries Inc. as it tries to
cut costs to preserve cash amid a PC-market slump.  AMD estimates it will purchase wafers from Globalfoundries
for about $115 million in the fourth quarter, the company said
in a statement yesterday. The new accord replaces a previous
agreement that said AMD would buy $500 million of chips, said
company spokesman Drew Prairie.  In October, AMD forecast fourth-quarter sales that fell
short of analysts’ estimates, putting the company on course for
its fourth consecutive quarterly sales decline. The projection
led analysts such as Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.’s Stacy Rasgon
to predict that, if the trend continues, cash reserves may fall
short of what AMD says it requires.  “Liquidity and cash management remain a key focus for
AMD,” interim Chief Financial Officer Devinder Kumar said on a
conference call.  The company predicts it will return to generating cash from
operations in the second half of next year and can stay close to
its target level of $1.1 billion in  cash reserves , he said.  Globalfoundries was created as a spinoff of AMD’s
manufacturing operations in a purchase by an investment arm of
the government of  Abu Dhabi . Sunnyvale, California-based AMD has
operated under fixed-supply contracts that require it to make
set payments to its supplier.  Terminating the contract to reduce the payments will cost
AMD $320 million, to be paid off by the end of 2013. Of that
total, $80 million will be paid in the current quarter, the
company said.  AMD  shares  rose less than 1 percent to $2.36 at the close
in  New York . The stock has dropped 56 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  