-- Hamilton, Greinke Remain on Market as Baseball Meetings Conclude
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-06T21:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/hamilton-greinke-remain-on-market-as-baseball-meetings-conclude.html
Outfielder Josh Hamilton and pitcher
Zack Greinke remain on the free-agent market at the end of
baseball’s winter meetings, which failed to match last year’s
$509 million spending spree.  The biggest official move on the final day of the meetings
in Nashville today was the Philadelphia Phillies’  acquisition  of
center fielder Ben Revere from the Minnesota Twins for pitchers
Vance Worley and Trevor May. The trade gives the Phillies a
replacement for Shane Victorino, who during the four-day
meetings joined the Boston Red Sox with a pair of former Texas
Rangers teammates, catcher Mike Napoli and relief pitcher Koji Uehara.  It remains to be seen if the Rangers add Greinke, who
finished last season for the Los Angeles Angels, or outfielder
Justin Upton from the  Arizona  Diamondbacks, and let Hamilton
leave.  Fox Sports reports  Texas is involved in talks on a three-
team trade to acquire Upton, whose arrival probably would lead
to Hamilton’s exit.  The Seattle Mariners met with Hamilton, his wife and his
agents during the Winter Meetings and are poised to sign the
2010 American League Most Valuable Player if the Rangers don’t,
the Seattle Times said, without citing the source of its
information. Hamilton, 31, hit a career-best 43 home runs last
season. He also has a history of drug and alcohol abuse.  Greinke, the 2009 AL Cy Young Award winner, is being
pursued by the Rangers and Los Angeles Dodgers, Fox Sports said.
Greinke played with the Angels and Milwaukee Brewers this year,
going 15-5 with a 3.48 earned run average.  Slow Deals  “The timing of these things, sometimes everything falls
quickly and you get a lot of deals done,” Orioles General
Manager Dan Duquette was quoted as saying by MLB.com. “This
year it seems like the deals are a little slow in coming. Once
some of the top guys sign, you’ll see a lot more deals go
down.”  The Angels signed three-time National League MVP Albert Pujols and pitcher C.J. Wilson to contracts worth $317.5 million
at the meetings last year. The Miami Marlins also used the time
to give long-term contracts worth $191 million to shortstop Jose Reyes and pitchers Mark Buehrle and Heath Bell, all of whom have
since been traded away.  Many of the players who changed teams at this year’s
meetings were lower-profile free agents, with those deals
unofficial under physicals are passed.  Nationals’ Pitchers  Reliever Joakim Soria agreed to join the Rangers, while
pitcher Dan Haren is headed to the Washington Nationals; third
baseman Eric Chavez moved to the Diamondbacks from the  New York 
Yankees; catcher Russell Martin signed with the Pittsburgh
Pirates from the Yankees; outfielder Jason Bay agreed to terms
with the Mariners after the New York Mets bought out the final
year of his contract; and first baseman James Loney ended up
with the Rays, MLB.com said.  While the Yankees lost Chavez, they made a one-year, $12
million offer to Kevin Youkilis, according to MLB.com. The
former Red Sox and Chicago White Sox third baseman would help
the Yankees offset the loss of Alex Rodriguez, who will miss at
least the start of the 2013 season while recovering from hip
surgery. The White Sox reached a three-year agreement with
infielder Jeff Keppinger, who would probably replace Youkilis,
MLB.com said.  The Mets officially announced the re-signing of third
baseman David Wright during the meetings, while engaging in
trade talks involving NL Cy Young Award-winning pitcher R.A. Dickey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  