-- Archstone Deal Completes Equity Residential’s ‘Evolution’
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-12-06T16:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/archstone-deal-completes-equity-residential-s-evolution-.html
Equity Residential (EQR) ’s partial purchase
of Archstone Inc. completes the company’s evolution from a
garden-apartment landlord into an owner of high-rises in markets
where development is difficult, Chairman Sam Zell said today.  “Today, with this transaction, we’ll be all barrier-to-
entry,” Zell said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop.” The Archstone deal gives Chicago-based Equity
Residential more apartments in such markets as New York and San
Francisco, where the scarcity and high cost of land combined
with zoning restrictions limit new construction.  Equity Residential, the largest publicly traded U.S.
apartment landlord, will acquire about 60 percent of Archstone
in a cash-and-stock deal valued at about $16 billion, including
debt. The purchase, from Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
increases Equity Residential’s 119,000-unit portfolio by 20
percent, and bolsters its holdings in cities where it already
has properties, sometimes across the street.  AvalonBay
Communities Inc. (AVB) , the No. 2 public apartment company, is buying
the other 40 percent of Archstone.  The properties Equity Residential will acquire are mostly
in  Washington , San Francisco, Southern California and New York,
while AvalonBay’s will be chiefly in the mid-Atlantic region and
Southern California. The transaction will give Equity
Residential 78 properties with 23,110 apartments, while
Arlington, Virginia-based AvalonBay will receive 66 complexes
with 22,222 units.  ‘Seamless Transition’  The deal’s size, the largest in either company’s history,
made it “prudent” to bring in a partner, even one who is a
competitor, Zell said in the Bloomberg TV interview. The firms
“worked together just like hand in glove, so it was a seamless
transition,” he said.  The landlords carved up Archstone assets in a session
similar to the National Football League draft, Zell said.  “You have a pool of guys and then each team picks one,
then the other one picks one,” Zell said. “So we put AvalonBay
and EQR in the room, we put all the Archstone assets on the
table and we said, ‘OK, flip a coin, who goes first?’”  Equity Residential got the first pick for $450 million, and
AvalonBay got the second and third picks for $300 million each,
according to a Nov. 29 report by Green Street Advisors Inc., a
Newport Beach, California-based research firm. Values for each
asset were pre-determined by both companies ahead of the
selections, Green Street said.  The acquisition means Equity Residential “will have
completed its process of evolution from a garden-apartment
company in 1993, when we went public at $800 million of total
enterprise value,” Zell said in the interview. The deal’s
completion is expected by the end of March.  Equity Residential, with a market value of about $18
billion, climbed 1.1 percent to $55.02 at 11:18 a.m. in New York
trading. AvalonBay rose 0.8 percent to $133.80.  Including debt, the Archstone sale is the biggest real
estate transaction since Blackstone Group LP’s $26 billion
purchase of hotelier Hilton Worldwide Inc. in July 2007,
according to Dan Fasulo, a managing director at New York-based
Real Capital Analytics Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
 Betty Liu  in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  