-- Harper Was Told Nexen Would Give Cnooc Stake in Key Asset
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-12-06T16:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/harper-was-told-nexen-would-give-cnooc-stake-in-key-asset.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion takeover
of  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  would give the Chinese company the largest stake
of an oil field in the North Sea that “has increasingly
influenced” global oil prices, according to a memo sent to
Prime Minister Stephen Harper by Canada’s top government worker.  Nexen says it controls 43 percent of the Buzzard oil field
in the North Sea, off the coast of  Scotland . Buzzard, which
began production in 2007, is the largest discovery off the U.K.
in the past two decades, according to Nexen’s website.  “Oil produced in the North Sea is used to set global oil
prices for approximately 60 billion barrels of crude sold every
day,” says a briefing note prepared Aug. 17 for Harper by Wayne
Wouters, the government’s top bureaucrat. “The Buzzard field
has increasingly influenced the global oil prices in recent
years due to declining production at other North Sea fields.”  Harper’s government is reviewing the bid by Cnooc --
controlled by state-owned China National Offshore Oil Corp. --
under  Canada ’s foreign-takeover law, which requires that
acquisitions represent a “net benefit” to the country.
Industry Minister Christian Paradis extended the review last
month until Dec. 10.  The memo, entitled “‘investments in the energy sector,’’
was intended to brief Harper on Cnooc’s July 23 offer for Nexen,
a Calgary-based oil and gas producer. It is stamped ‘‘secret’’
and was obtained by Bloomberg News under the Access to
Information Act, Canada’s freedom-of-information law.  Parts of the document have been censored under portions of
the law that protect information about international affairs and
defense, and government operations.  Reviewing Bids  Nexen shares rose 0.6 percent to $24.66 at 11:55 in  New
York  trading, 10 percent below Cnooc’s bid of $27.50 per share.  Canada is also reviewing a C$5.2 billion ($5.2 billion)
offer by  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. for  Progress Energy
Resources Corp. (PRQ)  Harper has said his government will release a
new ‘‘policy framework” on foreign investment around the time
of the Nexen decision.  Canada issued guidelines on takeovers by state-owned
enterprises in 2007 that say the government will assess whether
the business to be bought will be operated on a “commercial
basis.”  The memo reiterates details of Cnooc’s bid, including the
share price offered by Cnooc, which represented a premium of
about 60 percent above Nexen’s share price when the bid was
announced. The document says most of Nexen’s assets are based
outside Canada.  It also cites the commitments Cnooc promised at the time,
including establishing Calgary as its North and Central American
head office, maintaining Nexen’s employment level and
management, and enhancing Nexen’s capital spending.  Syncrude Stake  The memo says the bid would mean the Chinese government
would own a 16 percent share of Syncrude, Canada’s biggest oil-
sands project in production, with  China Petroleum (386)  and Chemical
Corp., known as Sinopec, owning 9 percent and Cnooc acquiring
Nexen’s 7 percent.  Cnooc spokesman Peter Hunt declined to comment on the memo
on the Nexen takeover. Nexen spokeswoman Patti Lewis didn’t
immediately reply to an e-mail seeking comment. Raymond Rivet of
the Privy Council Office, a spokesman for the ministry that
supports Harper in running the government, referred questions to
the industry department, which didn’t respond to an e-mail and
phone call seeking comment. Harper spokesman Andrew MacDougall
declined to comment.  The document also briefs Harper on Sinopec’s proposed $1.5
billion acquisition 49 percent of the U.K. assets of Calgary-
based  Talisman Energy (TLM)  Inc. Sinopec doesn’t require Canada’s
approval to complete the deal.  The Buzzard field, which began production in early 2007, is
expected to produce as much as 85,000 barrels of oil per day for
Nexen this year, the  company said .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  