-- Ashaka Cement Nigeria Falls Most in Seven Weeks on Glut
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2012-12-06T14:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/ashaka-cement-nigeria-falls-most-in-seven-weeks-on-glut.html
Ashaka Cement Plc (ASHAKACE) , a Nigerian unit of
 Lafarge SA (LG) , fell the most in seven weeks after  Dangote Cement
Plc (DANGCEM)  shut one of its plants, citing a supply glut in parts of the
country.  The stock lost 5 percent to close at 18.05 naira in Lagos,
 Nigeria ’s commercial capital, the biggest drop since Oct. 16.
About 1.4 million shares, or double the three-month moving
average, traded, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dangote Cement, Africa’s biggest producer of the building
material, shut its plant in Gboko in central Nigeria because an
influx of imported cement had made it uneconomical to continue
producing, Anthony Chiejina, a spokesman for the company said
today by phone from Lagos. The country’s southeast served by the
Gboko plant has seen  a “massive importation and dumping of
low-quality, cheap cement,” he said.  “The news of a glut in the market could have led to the
sell-off on Ashaka,” Pabina Yinkere, head of research at Lagos-
based Vetiva, said today by phone. Dangote’s shares were
unchanged probably because Gboko “is the smallest of its
plants, Yinkere said. Dangote has the capacity to produce 19.25
million metric tons of cement a year, to which the closed plant
contributed 4 million tons.  Ashaka’s net income for the nine months through September
rose to 3.7 billion naira ($23.6 million) from 2.46 billion
naira a year earlier, the Gombe, northern Nigeria-based company
said on Oct. 29. Revenue rose to 16.5 billion naira from 15.8
billion naira.  Ashaka’s price has risen 60 percent this year, compared
with a 28 percent increase in the Nigerian Stock Exchange  All-
Share Index. (NGSEINDX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  