-- U.S. Stocks Advance as Apple Rebounds; Euro, Oil Retreat
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-12-06T21:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/asian-stocks-rise-on-u-s-talks-yen-near-7-month-low-jgbs-gain.html
 U.S. stocks rose for a second day as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  rebounded following its worst drop in four years and
investors weighed prospects for a budget deal in  Washington .
Treasuries pared early gains. The euro and oil fell.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.3 percent to
1,413.94 at 4 p.m. as Apple rallied 1.6 percent. Ten-year
Treasury yields were little changed at 1.58 percent after losing
as much as 2.6 points. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index climbed 0.7
percent, maintaining gains after the European Central Bank cut
its economic forecasts. The euro weakened against all 16 peers
as ECB President Mario Draghi said there was a “wide
discussion” on interest rates. Oil fell to a three-week low.  A few dozen Republicans joined a bipartisan push to break
an impasse between President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker John
Boehner over taxes for the highest-earning Americans, signing a
letter calling for openness to “all options.” Reports today
showed the euro area’s economy shrank in the third quarter while
fewer American filed for jobless claims last week. Apple, the
biggest company by market value, contributed the most to the
advance in the S&P 500.  “Apple stock is taking a breather after a sharp selloff
and that’s helping the overall market,” said  Alan Gayle , senior
strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management in Richmond,
 Virginia , which oversees about $47 billion. “Most analysts
continue to like their story. We’re seeing some validation of
that. In addition, the jobless claims were better than expected.
The data suggest that U.S. economy continues to heal and that
will be the case as long as we don’t fall off the fiscal
cliff.”  Economic Data  The S&P 500 climbed 0.2 percent yesterday, halting a two-
day drop. Technology and consumer shares led gains among the  10
main industry groups  today, while utility, telephone and health-
care companies retreated.  Apple rebounded today after slumping 6.4 percent yesterday
amid concern about competition in the smartphone and tablet
markets. Akamai Technologies Inc. rallied 10 percent for the
best gain in the  S&P 500 (SPX)  after forging a deal with AT&T Inc. to
provide the carrier’s business customers with content-delivery
services. Starbucks Corp. jumped 5.7 percent after Robert W.
Baird & Co. advised buying the shares.  Garmin Ltd., a maker of mobile navigation systems, rallied
5.7 percent after S&P said the company will replace R.R.
Donnelley & Sons Co. in the S&P 500. Freeport-McMoRan Copper &
Gold Inc. dropped 4.2 percent after being cut at BMO Capital
Markets.  Jobless Claims  Jobless claims decreased by 25,000 to 370,000 in the week
ended Dec. 1, Labor Department figures showed. The median
forecast of 52 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
drop to 380,000. Data tomorrow is forecast to show U.S. payrolls
rose by 86,000 workers last month, the smallest gain since June,
according to the median forecast of economists.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  advanced 0.7 percent as two
shares gained for each that fell, with chemical, commodity and
retail companies leading gains. European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. climbed 8.2 percent after the company said  Germany 
will join France and Spain as a government shareholder in the
largest revamp of ownership since the creation of EADS 12 years
ago.  European Movers  GDF Suez SA plunged 11 percent, the most in four years,
after Europe’s largest utility by market value said earnings
will drop next year because of a “challenging” economy. Saipem
SpA tumbled 6.7 percent, the biggest decline in more than a
year, as Chief Executive Officer Pietro Franco Tali resigned
amid an Italian probe into Algeria contracts awarded to the oil
contractor.  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  slid 3.1 percent, the most in six
months. Europe’s largest maker of commercial aircraft and ship
engines said it unearthed possible wrongdoing in overseas
business dealings and is under scrutiny by the U.K. Serious
Fraud Office.  The euro retreated 0.8 percent against the dollar and 0.9
percent versus the yen as Draghi’s remarks stoked speculation
that the ECB may consider interest-rate cuts.  The yield on  Italy ’s 10-year bond jumped 13 basis points to
4.57 percent as former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi
threatened to stop supporting the government, risking the
disintegration of the parliament coalition. While Prime Minister
Mario Monti’s government survived a confidence vote on a growth
package in the upper house, the majority of lawmakers with
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party didn’t take part in the
vote or abstained.  The yield on 10-year  Spanish notes  rose seven basis points
to 5.47 percent. The yield on Germany’s 10-year bond fell five
basis points to 1.30 percent.  Crude Slumps  Crude oil slumped 1.8 percent to a three-week low of $86.26
a barrel to help lead declines in 14 of 24 commodities tracked
by the S&P GSCI Index. Copper futures dropped the most in four
weeks, losing 1.1 percent, amid concern that persistent economic
weakness in Europe will undercut demand. Wheat gained for a
second straight day on speculation that dry weather may curb
production in the U.S., the world’s biggest exporter.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 0.4 percent to a
seven-month high. Russia’s Micex Index rose 0.2 percent and
 India ’s Sensex advanced 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  