-- Australia Jobless Rate Unexpectedly Falls, Boosting Currency
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-12-06T02:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/australia-jobless-rate-unexpectedly-falls-on-mining-state-hiring.html
Australia ’s unemployment rate
unexpectedly dropped in November as a labor market driven by
mining-industry hiring weathers a weaker global economy, sending
the local currency higher.  The jobless rate fell to 5.2 percent from 5.4 percent in
October, the statistics bureau said in Sydney today. That
compares with the median estimate for unemployment of 5.5
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 27 economists. The number
of people employed advanced by 13,900, compared with the
consensus forecast for no change.  The data underscore the strength of the world’s 12th-
largest economy, which expanded at an annual pace of 3.1 percent
last quarter driven by resource investment. Reserve Bank of
Australia Governor Glenn Stevens lowered interest rates by a
quarter percentage point this week, bringing to 1.75 points the
cuts since Nov. 1 last year as he seeks to revive industries
outside mining, where investment is expected to peak next year.  “The labor market is still fairly tight,” said  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research for TD Securities Inc. in
 Singapore . “The economy is still in terrific shape and
therefore we can expect to see the Aussie dollar remain well
over parity into 2013 and the RBA’s work is nearly done.”  Australian stocks were little changed, trading down 0.1
percent at 1:02 p.m. in Sydney. The yield on three-year
government debt rose to 2.65 percent, from 2.63 percent
yesterday.  Currency Strength  The local dollar traded at $1.0469 at 1:03 p.m. in Sydney,
compared with $1.0447 before the data were released. While the
currency has risen 7.9 percent since June 1 and hurt industries
exposed to international goods, some are weathering the
competition.  Clothing company Cotton On will expand its headquarters in
Geelong, Victoria, and create 500 new jobs, the state government
said last month. Victoria Premier Ted Baillieu said Nov. 16 that
the new jobs would increase total employment at Cotton On to
about 1,300 and ensure business operations remain in the region.  Today’s report showed the number of  full-time jobs  declined
by 4,200 in November, and part-time employment rose by 18,100,
today’s report showed. Australia’s participation rate, a measure
of the labor force in proportion to the population, dropped to
65.1 percent in November from a revised 65.2 percent a month
earlier, it showed.  RBA’s Easing  The  central bank ’s board lowered the overnight cash-rate
target six times since Nov. 1, 2011, to 3 percent. Still, the
number of Australian construction jobs fell by 70,200 to 978,000
in the 12 months through August. Mining employment gained by
44,600 over the same period to 271,000, according to government
figures.  Unemployment in Western Australia, center of the nation’s
mining bonanza, dropped to 4.1 percent last month from 4.6
percent a month earlier, the report showed. The rate in
Queensland, another resource-rich state, fell to 6 percent from
6.1 percent, it showed.  The result contrasts with help-wanted notices that dropped
for an eighth straight month in November, sliding 2.9 percent,
an  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  report showed this
week.  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Holden unit said last month it will
cut about one in 13 jobs at its main plant in Adelaide as the
strong local currency and increased car imports crimp sales.  Job Market  “Unemployment will probably rise from here,” Scott Haslem, chief economist for Australia at UBS AG in Sydney, said
in a research report after the release. “Whatever the outcome
ahead, today’s data certainly suggests the RBA is on hold at 3
percent for more than a couple of months.”  Resource investment to meet Chinese demand and foreign
investment funds seeking a haven spurred gains in the local
currency, which closed above parity with the U.S. dollar for all
but 23 days this year.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest miner, in August
decided to delay approval of an estimated $33 billion expansion
of the Olympic Dam copper, uranium and gold mine.  Fortescue
Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , Australia’s biggest iron ore producer after
Rio Tinto Group and BHP, said in September it’s cutting its
full-year capital spending forecast by 26 percent to $4.6
billion.  “Looking further ahead, with the labor market softening
somewhat and unemployment edging higher, conditions are working
to contain pressure on labor costs,” Stevens said in the Dec. 4
statement announcing a 25 basis point reduction in the cash rate
to 3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  