-- Elong Declines as New Oriental Rebounds: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-12-06T22:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/autonavi-sinks-as-auditor-probe-stokes-adr-drop-china-overnight.html
Most  Chinese stocks  traded in  New
York  fell amid speculation the U.S. regulator’s move to sanction
auditors over their investigation into China-based companies is
deterring investors.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. was little changed 93.68 at the
close, as 29 stocks declined and 23 rose. The gauge earlier
retreated as much as 0.4 percent.  ELong Inc. (LONG) , China’s second-
biggest online travel agency, dropped to the lowest level in
almost four months.  AutoNavi Holdings Ltd. (AMAP) , which provides map
content to Apple Inc., had the biggest slump on record following
Apple’s 6.4 percent slide on Dec. 5.  New Oriental Education &
Technology Group Inc. (EDU)  rebounded 6 percent from the biggest two-
day drop since July.  The Securities and Exchange Commission accused the Chinese
units of the Big Four accounting firms this week of blocking a
probe into potential fraud by nine unnamed companies by
withholding documents. Should companies be forced to delist
because the U.S. and China can’t reach agreement on oversight,
it would be “disastrous” for Chinese companies and investors,
Louis Hsieh, New Oriental’s president, said yesterday. The
Beijing-based education provider isn’t one of the companies
being investigated by the SEC, Hsieh said.  The situation “would cast a negative cloud over Chinese
equities in general,”  Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield
Asset Management, which oversees $3.5 billion, including
emerging-market assets, said by phone yesterday in New York.
“The market is in the middle of pricing that regulatory risk
into those securities. But we certainly wouldn’t see the sell-
off as a buying opportunity.”  Market ‘Overhang’  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., added 0.4 percent to $38.27 on
its third day of gains. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3
percent to 1,413.94 as investors weighed prospects for a budget
deal in Washington and as Apple rebounded from its slump.  The SEC said in the Dec. 3 statement that China-based
auditors, including Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd. and Ernst
& Young Hua Ming, have refused to cooperate with accounting
investigations into the nine U.S.-traded companies. New
Oriental, which tumbled 19 percent over Dec. 4 and 5, said
itisn’t the Deloitte client referred to by the SEC, according to
a statement dated yesterday.  “The risk of delisting in Chinese stocks is very small,”
Michael Ding, lead manager of the  China Region Fund (USCOX)  at U.S.
Global Investors Inc. in  San Antonio , Texas, which oversees $2.2
billion, said by e-mail yesterday. “Having said that, an
overhang until it is resolved will exist.”  AutoNavi Slump  New Oriental’s Hsieh said yesterday in a Bloomberg TV
interview that a failure by Chinese and U.S. regulators to reach
agreement over whether auditors can share financial information
“would be disastrous for  capital markets , would be disastrous
for Chinese-based companies and disastrous for U.S. investors.”
Shares of New Oriental jumped to $17.39 in New York, paring an
earlier advance that was the most in five months.  AutoNavi, a Beijing-based company that provides digital map
content for China to Apple and other Internet companies, tumbled
10 percent to $10.47 yesterday. Shares of Cupertino, California-
based Apple plunged 8.1 percent in the previous two days after
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the Finnish mobile-phone maker, unveiled a version of
its flagship smartphone for  China Mobile Ltd. (CHL) , the nation’s
largest wireless carrier.  China Mobile’s American depositary receipts retreated 1.1
percent to $57.22, snapping a two-day advance. The ADRs traded
0.2 percent below China Mobile’s Hong Kong stock, the widest
 discount  in three days. Each ADR represents five underlying
shares.  Dangdang Retreats  The Hong Kong-based wireless carrier’s Chief Executive
Officer Li Yue said at a conference in Guangzhou on Dec. 5 that
he wouldn’t add the iPhone to the world’s largest wireless
network without a deal that’s favorable for his company.  Web retailer  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , the country’s
biggest online book retailer, fell to the lowest level in three
weeks. Known as Dangdang, E-Commerce dropped for a sixth day,
sliding 3.7 percent to $3.95.  “Investors are a little bit scared because of this
accounting dispute, which causes people to gravitate toward the
Chinese stocks, not the American ADRs,”  Stephen Leeb , the chief
investment officer of Leeb Capital Management Inc. in New York,
said by phone yesterday.  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) , a mobile chipmaker based in
Shanghai, climbed 3.1 percent to $17.37. Chardan Capital Markets
LLC raised its rating on the shares to buy from neutral
yesterday, lifting a 12-month price target by $1 to $21.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  advanced 0.3 percent
to 10,865.07 yesterday in its third day of gains, while the
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares slipped 0.1 percent
to 2,029.24 as 604 stocks fell and 305 rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  