-- Axa Is Said to Seek Buyers for Part of Former Mony Unit in U.S.
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2012-12-06T18:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/axa-is-said-to-seek-buyers-for-part-of-former-mony-unit-in-u-s-.html
Axa SA (CS) , France’s largest insurer, is
seeking buyers for some U.S. life insurance assets that may be
worth at least $500 million, said three people with knowledge of
the matter.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is advising Axa on the sale effort, which
includes remnants of the Mony Group Inc. business that Axa
acquired in 2004, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the process is private. Most of the divisions
up for sale have already stopped selling new insurance policies,
the people said.  Axa has focused on  expanding  mostly in  emerging markets  in
recent years, paying A$1.97 billion ($2.1 billion) in 2011 to
buy out its remaining stake in Melbourne-based Axa Asia Pacific
Holdings Ltd., gaining full control of its Asian operations from
 India  to Indonesia. Deputy Chief Executive Officer Denis Duverne
lowered earnings targets last month amid “unfavorable”
European stock markets and lower yields on U.S. and German
government bonds.  Spokesmen for Paris-based Axa and Morgan Stanley, which is
based in New York, declined to comment.  After buying Mony for $1.5 billion, Axa folded Mony’s
network of financial advisers into its own, and stopped selling
most new insurance policies at the Mony Life Insurance Co. of
America subsidiary.  Mony Life had $685 million of shareholders’ equity as of
Dec. 31, according to a regulatory filing. It had a statutory
surplus, a measure used by state insurance regulators, of $537
million as of Sept. 30, according to SNL Financial.  Axa’s other operations in the U.S. include the Axa
Equitable Life Insurance Co. and the investment manager
 AllianceBernstein Holding LP. (AB)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 Jmccracken3@bloomberg.net . 