-- Mayor of New Jersey Capital Indicted by U.S. for Bribery
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-12-06T22:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/mayor-of-new-jersey-capital-indicted-by-u-s-for-bribery.html
The mayor of New Jersey’s capital,
his brother and a friend were indicted by a federal grand jury
on bribery and fraud charges tied to a city-owned lot and a plan
to build a parking garage on it.  Trenton Mayor Tony Mack, 46, a Democrat, Ralphiel Mack, 40,
and Joseph Giorgianni, 63, were accused of participating in a
scheme to accept $119,000 in bribes in exchange for helping two
individuals acquire the parcel, U.S. prosecutors said today in a
statement.  The defendants went to great lengths to conceal their
corrupt activity and keep the mayor of Trenton, located between
New York and Philadelphia, “safe” from law enforcement, said
U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman in  Newark , New Jersey.  Tony and Ralphiel Mack are charged with attempted
obstruction of commerce by extortion, accepting bribes, and
defrauding the city of money and property, and of the mayor’s
honest services. Giorgianni is also charged with agreeing to
give bribes, and extortion, related to a separate kickback
scheme. The defendants face as long as 20 years in prison if
convicted of the most serious charges.  Lawyers for the Mack brothers said in separate phone
interviews that their clients are innocent and they anticipate
going to trial.  “We can finally move on with the case instead of having it
hanging in limbo,” Mark G. Davis, a lawyer for Tony Mack, said.
“Tony is going to be given his day in court.”  John Hartmann, a lawyer for Ralphiel Mack, said, “We’ll
probably resolve this with a trial.”  Jerome A. Ballarotto, a lawyer for Giorgianni, said in a
phone interview that he expects his client to plead not guilty.
“And we’ll take it from there,” Ballarotto said.  The case is U.S. v. Mack, 3:12-mj-02573, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  