-- Bank of Canada's Dec. Financial System Review Highlights (Text)
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-12-06T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/bank-of-canada-s-dec-financial-system-review-highlights-text-.html
Following is the overview section of
the Bank of  Canada ’s Financial System Review. The statement was
released today in Ottawa. Footnotes and tables have been
removed.  Conditions in the international financial system remain
challenging. A synchronous slowing in economic activity is
taking place in both developed and emerging economies, and the
outlook for growth remains modest. Although global financial
conditions have improved since June, largely reflecting
important announcements by major central banks and European
authorities, the level of uncertainty is elevated. This reflects
concerns about the underlying strength in the major economies,
and whether policy-makers have the resolve to put in place a
lasting solution to the crisis in the euro area and to address
the impending “fiscal cliff” in the United States.  Despite the challenging global environment, Canada’s
financial system continues to be robust. The balance sheets of
Canadian banks are healthy, and banks have retained access to
low-cost funding across the term structure. Financial markets in
Canada have been more stable than their global counterparts.
Corporate leverage in Canada is at an all-time low and firms
have good access to credit from both banks and capital markets.
Nevertheless, the Canadian financial system continues to be
vulnerable to a number of interrelated and mutually reinforcing
risks.  The Governing Council judges that the risks to the
stability of Canada’s financial system remain high, as they were
at the time of the June FSR. The sources of the key risks are
similar to those highlighted in June, and emanate primarily from
the external environment.  The most important risk continues to be the
reintensification of the crisis in the euro area. This crisis
has three interconnected elements: the potentially unsustainable
fiscal trajectories of some peripheral countries; the weaknesses
of the banking systems in those countries; and the underlying
imbalances within the euro area. Modest and uneven global
economic growth also represents a risk to the Canadian financial
system. The risk is that the deficiency in global demand deepens
or becomes more entrenched. This could be triggered in the near
term by the fiscal cliff in the United States or, over the
medium term, by disorderly fiscal consolidation in advanced
economies or a lack of rotation of demand toward consumption in
 China  and other surplus countries. Domestically, the primary
financial stability concern relates to the high level of
household indebtedness and elevated valuations in some segments
of the housing market. These household imbalances could
themselves be a trigger for financial system stress or they
could amplify adverse economic shocks originating elsewhere.
Finally, the low interest rate environment in major advanced
economies represents another risk to the financial system, both
in Canada and globally. This risk involves increased
vulnerability for financial institutions with long-duration
liabilities (e.g., life insurance companies and pension funds),
and increased incentives for excessive risk taking in a search
for yield, which could distort the pricing of both real and
financial assets.  A realization of any of the key external risks would affect
the Canadian financial system through three broad channels:
trade, financial and confidence. The trade channel would have an
impact on the financial system through weaker international
trade in goods and services. Shocks that weaken global economic
growth would reduce the demand for Canadian exports and dampen
economic activity, resulting in a deterioration of Canadian
business and household balance sheets and impairing the credit
quality of bank loan portfolios. The financial channel involves
three main effects related to the interconnections between
Canadian financial institutions and the global economy. First,
these institutions could experience direct and/or indirect
losses owing to their exposures in affected regions or sectors.
Second, counterparty risks and contagion could drive up the cost
of bank funding and create severe disruptions in its
availability in some markets. This would weaken the balance
sheets of Canadian financial institutions and could lead to
tighter lending conditions for businesses and households. Third,
financial stresses could trigger a broad-based retrenchment in
risk taking, which could exacerbate other adverse impacts
through the financial channel. Finally, there is the confidence
channel, through which adverse shocks could cause a decline in
consumer, business and investor confidence, leading to weaker
domestic demand and tighter financial conditions. These three
transmission channels, like the key risks, are closely linked
and could be mutually reinforcing.  Important steps have been taken since June to mitigate the
key risks identified in Table 1. In particular, additional
monetary policy stimulus announced by several central banks -
including the U.S. Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank
(ECB), the Bank of  Japan  and the Bank of England - will help
support global economic growth. The actions taken by European
authorities have reduced the near-term risk of a severe adverse
event, resulting in a significant easing in financial
conditions.  While these steps are important, further measures are
needed. In the euro area, plans for establishing a single
banking supervisor need to be supplemented with other critical
elements of a banking union - namely, a framework for common
deposit insurance and cross-border bank resolution. Further
structural reforms are also necessary to narrow divergences in
competitiveness within the euro area. In addition, work is
needed to establish a closer fiscal union, including a fiscal
transfer system and some form of mutualization of sovereign
debt. In the United States, a clear and credible plan is
required to address the fiscal cliff and the medium-term fiscal
challenges.  In Canada, changes to the rules for government-backed
insured mortgages and the introduction of mortgage underwriting
guidelines are expected to support the long-term stability of
the Canadian housing market and mitigate the risk of financial
excesses. In the past six months, the growth of household credit
has continued to moderate, sales of existing homes have declined
and the growth in house prices has slowed. Nevertheless, there
is a risk that the moderation in the housing market could prove
transient, and that imbalances could remain elevated or build up
further. To mitigate this risk, households should ensure that
their borrowing is in line with their current and prospective
ability to service their debt. Financial institutions must
ensure that they have rigorous lending practices in place and
are actively monitoring their risks, consistent with the
mortgage underwriting guidelines from the Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions (OSFI). For their part,
authorities will continue to carefully monitor the financial
situation of the household sector and developments in the
housing market.  The current environment should not be taken as an excuse to
delay or dilute the global financial reform agenda. In
particular, it is imperative that all jurisdictions fully and
consistently implement Basel III rules. Canadian banks are
expected to meet Basel III capital requirements by the beginning
of 2013, which is the start of the phase-in period that extends
to 2018. Establishing a resilient financial market
infrastructure is also important to reduce the likelihood and
consequences of future financial system turmoil. Good progress
has been made on this front since June, both in Canada and
internationally. In October, Canadian authorities announced that
market participants can clear standardized over-the-counter
derivatives using any central counterparty recognized by
Canadian authorities, including global central counterparties.
In addition, the Bank of Canada has adopted new international
risk-management standards for its oversight of systemically
important financial market infrastructures. At the international
level, work has moved forward on ending “too big to fail” and
strengthening the oversight and regulation of shadow banking
activities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  