-- Barclays Agrees $2.1 Billion Absa Deal for Africa Operations
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-12-06T16:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/barclays-to-boost-absa-stake-in-2-1-billion-share-transaction.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the second-largest U.K.
bank by assets, will increase its stake in  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA)  to
62.3 percent and combine its African operations with the
Johannesburg-based lender to boost growth across the continent.  Barclays, which owns 55.5 percent of Absa, will receive
129.5 million shares worth 18.3 billion rand ($2.1 billion) in
return for merging operations across  Africa  with the bank,
according to a regulatory statement today from Absa. After the
deal, Absa will be renamed Barclays Africa Group Ltd., it said.  Barclays bought 54 percent of Absa in 2005 for $4.5 billion
to expand in  emerging markets . The London-based bank’s Africa
business comprises interests in banking operations in countries
such as Botswana, Ghana, Kenya and  Zambia . The deal is expected
to be completed in the first half of 2013, the statement said.  “Everyone wants to get into Africa and Absa will acquire a
great portfolio of Africa assets in growing markets,” Patrice Rassou, head of equities at Sanlam Investment Management in  Cape
Town , said in an e-mailed response to questions today. “They
will have a lead on others in terms of serving South African
corporates expanding into Africa.”  Absa gained the most in 3 1/2 years, rising as much as 6.5
percent and closing 5.5 percent higher at 149.50 rand in
Johannesburg. Barclays climbed 1.4 percent to 249.90 pence in
 London , the highest level this month.  Diamond Push  Robert Diamond , who resigned as Barclays chief executive
officer in July after the lender was fined for manipulating
global  interest rates , sought to boost the British bank’s profit
by combining Absa and Barclays’s products and customer bases
across more than 10 African countries. Together, the banks have
more than 40,000 staff on the continent, which has 1 billion
people and faster growth rates than developed nations.  “While Barclays seems very committed to growing this
business for now, we believe that by combining the operations
the entity could be easier to sell in the future,” Gary Greenwood, a banking analyst at Shore Capital Ltd. in London,
said in an e-mailed report to clients today. “There would be no
shortage of interest in this business from potential buyers.”  Africa Unbanked  As much as 80 percent of Africa’s adult population don’t
yet have bank accounts. South African rival  Standard Bank Group
Ltd. (SBK)  has operations in 17 African countries while  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) 
is also expanding. The larger South African lenders have more
capital than regulators require and had an average return on
equity of 15.9 percent in June, giving them the opportunity to
invest in expanding their operations in Africa.  “Bringing together Barclays Africa with Absa is an
important step in furthering our ‘One Bank in Africa’ strategy
and the goal to become the ‘go-to’ bank across the continent,”
Barclays CEO Antony Jenkins said in the statement. The U.K. bank
is not planning to sell the combined African entity to boost
capital and provide for future loan losses, he said on a
conference call today.  Absa said on Oct. 31 that full-year losses on bad debts
will be higher than previously expected amid a slowing economy.
At least 12 senior executives have resigned since the
appointment of  Maria Ramos  as Absa Group CEO in March 2009.  The transaction with Barclays will help Absa to “attract
and retain” skills, Ramos said on the conference call. With the
combination of both banks’ African assets, “the intention is
not to cut jobs,” she said, adding that the lender has “the
right management team in place.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  