-- BAT, Nike, Nestle, Chick-fil-A: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-12-06T11:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/bat-nike-nestle-chick-fil-a-intellectual-property.html
British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ’s
Zimbabwean unit denied allegations of “industrial espionage”
and “illegal activity” after the country’s president,  Robert
Mugabe , said that BAT had disrupted shipments by rivals.  Mugabe told a conference on empowerment of black
Zimbabweans in Harare last week that his government had got
information that the unit,  British American Tobacco Holdings
Zimbabwe Ltd. (BAT) , had been working with groups in  South Africa 
against Savanna Tobacco Co., a Zimbabwean tobacco company owned
by a businessmen, Adam Molai. He said the information, which
included the armed theft of tobacco from Savanna, “appears to
be authentic.”  BAT Zimbabwe “strongly denies any involvement in the
industrial espionage and/or any illegal activity that may be
linked to other local tobacco manufacturers,” the Harare-based
company said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  Zimbabwe has passed a law to force foreign-owned companies
to sell a 51 percent stake in their business to black
Zimbabweans and is pushing for greater local participation in
industries ranging from banks to mining.  State media carried reports that while trucks from
competitors traveling to South  Africa  have been hijacked, BAT’s
vehicles have been spared.  “BAT Zimbabwe does not export any cigarettes,” the
company said. “Our operation does, however, export semi-
processed tobacco leaf.”  The company bases its competitive strategy on market
research and hasn’t resorted to “illegal tactics,” it said.  “Those are the things that have been happening in order to
kill competition and if you try to undo a competitor in that
ugly way that’s not acceptable,” Mugabe said.  BAT, Zimbabwe’s biggest cigarette maker, competes with
closely-held companies like Savannah Tobacco (Pvt) Ltd and Cut
Rag Tobacco (Pvt) Ltd. for domestic sales. Zimbabwe is Africa’s
biggest tobacco exporter.  Patents  Japan to Mandate Price Cuts for Off-Patent Brand-Name Drugs  Japan ’s Health Ministry has approved a rule cutting prices
for off-patent name-brand drugs, thereby cutting health-care
costs, Nikkei  reported .  Generics make up only about 30 percent of the
pharmaceutical market in Japan because the name brand drugs
retain brand strength even after patent expiration, according to
Nikkei.  The mandated price cuts would go into effect as early as
April 2014.  Strategies pharmaceutical companies will employ to offset
the lower prices include accelerated development of new
products, or increasing the volume of sales of the off-patent
brand-name drugs, according to Nikkei.  Verizon Applies for Patent on People-Watching Set-Top Box  Verizon Communications Inc. is seeking a patent on a
technology that may potentially turn a set-top box into a Big
Brother analogate.  Application 20120304206 covers a targeted advertising
system based on activities of the user. The ads shown would be
based on the activities performed while a television program is
being viewed, according to the application.  The traditional targeted advertising system “fails to
account for what the user is doing” while watching a particular
TV program, Verizon said in the application.  The system could include what Verizon calls a
“presentation facility,” together with a “detection
facility,” a “targeted advertising facility” and a “storage
facility,” all of which communicate with each other, according
to the application.  Verizon filed the application in May 2011. It was published
in the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Nov. 29.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  Nike Files Chinese Suit, Battling Adverse Liu Trademark Decision  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the Oregon athletic-shoe company, filed suit in
 China , seeking to overcome government rejection of its
application to register the name of Chinese track star  Liu Xiang 
as a trademark,  China Daily  reported.  The application was rejected because the Chinese characters
for Liu’s name were registered 26 years ago by a Shanghai
clothing company, according to the newspaper.  Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike has signed a contract with the
athlete authorizing the use of his name and likeness and, while
it’s unable to register the characters for his name, does have
several other Chinese trademarks related to Liu, China Daily
reported.  The proprietor of the Shanghai-based clothing company that
holds the mark said it may be possible to transfer the mark to
Nike, depending on how much the shoe company is willing to pay,
the newspaper reported.  Nespresso Sued in Paris by Ethical Coffee for ‘Smear’ Campaign  Nestle SA (NESN)  was sued in Paris by capsule-coffee maker Ethical
Coffee Co., which claimed the Swiss food company’s Nespresso
brand engaged in unfair competition practices to stymie its
rival’s growth.  Ethical Coffee filed a suit before the commercial tribunal
Dec. 4 claiming a “systematic smear” effort by Nespresso to
criticize its products and steer clients away from the
competition, the Fribourg, Switzerland-based company said in a
statement. Nespresso made such comments through its Nespresso
Club, on the Internet and through machine distributors, Ethical
Coffee said.  “It would have been fairer and far better if Nespresso had
tried to beat the competition in terms of quality and price,”
Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Gaillard said in yesterday’s
statement. “However, where the consumer opted for our products,
Nespresso clearly tries, even through unlawful means, to
influence their decision.”  Nespresso, one of Nestle’s fastest-growing brands, faces
increased competition as other food companies including D.E
Master Blenders 1753 NV began offering coffee-filled capsules
that work in its machines. Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle has
taken legal action against Ethical Coffee and other capsule
makers in countries including France and  Germany , as well as at
home, arguing the rivals violate its patents.  “The allegations by ECC are without substance and we
believe that the complaint has no merit,” Nespresso General
Counsel Daniel Weston said yesterday in an e-mail. “This is
part of an on-going pattern and is not the first time that this
company has made similar claims.”  Ethical Coffee has asked the court to order Nespresso to
cease such practices and is seeking unspecified “considerable
compensation” for the financial harm it’s suffered since
entering the market, according to the statement.  Chick-fil-A Parody Site Not in Bad Faith, WIPO Panel Says  Chick-fil-A Inc., the Atlanta-based fast-food chain that
had $4.1 billion in sales last year, filed a complaint in its
battle against a parody website.  The company filed with the World  Intellectual Property 
Organization’s Arbitration and Mediation Center in August,
objecting to the registration of the chickfilafoundation.com
Internet domain name.  According to a Nov. 30 WIPO ruling, the disputed name was
registered in 2011 by an opponent of the public stand Chick-Fil-
A’s owner has taken with respect to same-sex marriage. Dan
Cathy, the chief executive officer of the Georgia chain, has
expressed the view that homosexuality is both sinful and a
chosen lifestyle, and he opposes same-sex marriage.  After Cathy’s views became widely known last summer, gay,
lesbian and transgender people and their allies called for a
boycott of Chick-fil-A restaurants. In response, former Arkansas
governor  Mike Huckabee  called for opponents of same-sex marriage
to go out of their way to eat at Chick-fil-A restaurants.  The disputed website featured a photo of Huckabee, and a
coupon purporting to offer a free Chick-fil-A sandwich to anyone
who abandoned homosexuality. A notice that “this site is not
affiliated with Chick-fil-A” appeared in very small type at the
bottom of the page.  Other features of the disputed website were photos of the
operator of a clinic that claimed to cure people of
homosexuality, and former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum  of
 Pennsylvania , a Republican candidate in the 2012 presidential
race and an opponent of same-sex marriage.  The restaurant chain argued that its name was being used in
bad faith on the parody website, and that the site didn’t
constitute the parody exemption to trademark infringement.  The WIPO panel said that while it was “questionable”
about whether the disputes site qualified as parody, it was
clear that the application wasn’t filed in bad faith. For a bad
faith claim to succeed, the site must have been created for
commercial gain, and the panel said Chick-fil-A “failed to
produce even a scintilla of evidence” that this why the site
was created.  Because the panel couldn’t find any proof of bad-faith
registration, Chick-fil-A’s complaint was denied.  The WIPO panel had a single member,  M. Scott Donahey  of
 Palo Alto ,  California .  The case is  CFA Properties Inc., v. Domains By Proxy LLC,
D2012-1618.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  EU Plans Work on Overhaul of Copyright Rules for Digital Age  European Union regulators plan to work on an overhaul of
the bloc’s copyright rules to “make them fit” for the digital
age.  The European Commission decided yesterday to adapt the
rules governing how copyrights are used and enforced across the
27-nation EU to meet challenges presented by the Internet. The
regulator seeks to complete work by 2014.  The goal is to “work for a modern copyright framework that
guarantees effective recognition and remuneration of rights
holders in order to provide sustainable incentives for
creativity” and combating piracy, the Brussels-based commission
said in a statement.  EU lawmakers in July rejected a global anti-piracy treaty,
known as ACTA, that would have established global rules for
cracking down on piracy, including illegal file-sharing. Key
goals in the new initiative are to improve enforcement of
copyright rules across the EU and harmonize the fragmented way
copyrights apply across the bloc’s 27 nations.  The commission next year will have discussions with
industry officials to tackle six “concrete problems.” This
includes how to solve the effect of copyright territoriality
when consumers who have legally downloaded content such as music
or e-books in one EU nation, can’t access it in another EU
country.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Roetzel & Andress Hires Biotech Patent Specialist Vern Luckow  Roetzel & Andress LPA hired Vern A. Luckow for its IP
practice group, the Washington Court, Ohio-based firm said in a
 statement .  Luckow , who does patent-acquisition and IP-related
transactional work, previously practiced at  Polster Lieder
Woodruff & Lucchesi LC  of  St. Louis . He has represented clients
in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries.  He has an undergraduate degree in biochemistry and a
doctorate in molecular biology from the  University of Wisconsin 
and a law degree from St. Louis University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 