-- Pjilip Green Sells Topshop Stake to Fund Global Expansion
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-12-06T14:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/billionaire-green-sells-25-topshop-stake-to-j-crew-co-owner.html
Philip Green, the billionaire owner
of Britain’s Arcadia fashion empire, sold a 25 percent stake in
the Topshop and Topman retail chains to raise 500 million pounds
($805 million) of firepower for international expansion.  The sale to Leonard Green & Partners LP, a Los Angeles-
based private-equity firm that co-owns the J Crew fashion brand,
values the chains at 2 billion pounds ($3.2 billion), the 60-
year-old entrepreneur said today in a statement. The price tag
was double the amount expected, reflecting the strength of the
brands, according to Nick Bubb, an independent retail analyst.  Green, based in  Monaco , plans to step up investment in the
U.S. and globally to double the size of the Topshop and Topman
business over the next three to four years, he said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today. He entered the U.S. in
2009 with a Topshop store in  Manhattan  and has plans for 20
outlets in the country, adding to concession spaces inside
 Nordstrom (JWN)  department stores.  Further expansion “would have been difficult if he tried
to do it alone,” said Honor Westnedge, an analyst at Verdict
Research, making the stake sale “a necessary move.”  Green plans to hold talks with Nordstrom in  Seattle  next
month about expanding the Topshop business in the U.S., he said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  “Since we started it’s been very strong,” he said.  Debt Free  The stake sale will give Arcadia flexibility to pursue
expansion either independently or in partnership with Leonard
Green, according to the statement. Philip Green has been quiet
on the acquisition front since 2005, when he bought the Etam
chain in the U.K. A year before that he made an unsuccessful
attempt to buy  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , the U.K.’s largest
clothing retailer, for 9.1 billion pounds.  The billionaire said last month he may spend 5 billion
pounds on an acquisition should the opportunity arise.  “If something turns up that we like, we might do it,” he
said. “We’re in a position where we could look at anything.”  Today’s transaction leaves both Topshop and Arcadia free of
bank debt and with positive cash balances, the retailer said.
Arcadia owner Taveta Investments Ltd. reported net debt of 308.9
million pounds at the end of its last financial year.  Leonard Green counts Jo-Ann Stores Inc. among its retail
investments. The private-equity firm has “a lot of experience
of the U.S., they know the customer, the areas they should have
a presence,” Westnedge said.  Arcadia , which also includes the Dorothy Perkins, Evans and
Miss Selfridge brands, reported last month that pretax profit
climbed 25 percent in the year ended Aug. 25 as it offered fewer
discounts. Green bought the business in 2002, and also owns the
BHS department store chain, which he bought in 2000.  The London-born executive owns more than 615 global
franchise stores. 