-- Blankfein Said to Buy Seven-Bedroom Home in NY’s Hamptons
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-12-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/blankfein-said-to-buy-seven-bedroom-home-in-ny-s-hamptons.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein bought a seven-bedroom home
in  New York ’s Hamptons that was listed for $32.5 million, a
person with knowledge of the deal said.  Blankfein, 58, took title to the property on Ocean Road in
Bridgehampton in recent weeks, said the person, who asked not to
be named because the transaction hasn’t been made public. The
person didn’t disclose the price for the home, which was most
recently offered for $32.5 million, according to  Zillow.com .  Property records reported by LexisNexis list the owner as
‘Fein, Blank.’ The sellers were Matthew Mallow and his wife,
Ellen Chesler, records show. In August, Mallow, who was named
earlier this year as general counsel at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , and
Chesler, a senior fellow at the Roosevelt Institute, hosted a
fundraiser at the house for President  Barack Obama  that was
attended by Vice President  Joe Biden , according to reports in
the New York Post and on the website of the Sag Harbor Express.  “For the most discerning, this classic Hamptons estate-
home, situated on magnificent grounds, offers the ideal blend of
every modern convenience and amenity within its early 20th-
century construction,” according to a June 2009  rental listing 
for the property on StreetEasy.com, a real estate website.  The home, with six full bathrooms, includes a tennis court,
“sculpted gardens,” a swimming pool, and “a winding driveway
to a home of which dreams are made,” according to the rental
listing.  Luxury Sales  Blankfein declined to comment through a Goldman Sachs
spokesman,  David Wells . Bobbie Collins, a spokeswoman for New
York-based BlackRock, also declined to comment.  The deal was reported yesterday by the New York Post.  The median price of Hamptons and North Fork luxury
properties, defined as the top 10 percent of all sales, was
$4.23 million in the third quarter, according to an Oct. 25
report by New York appraiser  Miller Samuel Inc.  and broker
 Douglas Elliman Real Estate .  The listing price of the Hamptons home is more than what
Blankfein spent for his Manhattan apartment at 15  Central Park 
West, according to a February 2006 regulatory  filing  by Goldman
Sachs. He paid $27 million for that property, the filing shows.  At the time, Goldman Sachs-managed real estate funds held a
31 percent stake in the condominium tower, located across the
street from Central Park. The funds have since relinquished that
interest.  Blankfein has seen his annual pay drop since he was awarded
a record-setting $54 million in 2006 and $68.5 million in 2007.
His 2011 compensation was $12.4 million, which included a $3
million cash bonus, $7 million in restricted stock, $2 million
in salary and $449,600 in other benefits.  Last month, Blankfein reaped $5.93 million by exercising
10-year-old  stock options  and selling the shares, leaving him
with Goldman Sachs stock worth about $209 million at yesterday’s
closing price, according to company filings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  