-- BMW Sees Third Consecutive Sales Record on New 4-Series
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-12-06T08:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/bmw-sees-third-consecutive-sales-record-on-new-4-series.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
biggest maker of luxury cars, said sales will probably reach a
third consecutive annual record next year, when the manufacturer
will introduce the 4-Series coupe.  The U.S. car market is “continuing to be in good shape,”
Ian Robertson, BMW’s head of sales and marketing, said at a
presentation of the new model in Munich late yesterday. The U.S.
will be the biggest market for the car, which replaces the coupe
version of the 3-Series next year, followed by  Germany  and the
U.K., he said.  Growth in demand in China and the U.S. has largely shielded
Munich-based BMW from the effects of the sovereign-debt crisis
in  Europe , where the car market may shrink by the most in almost
two decades this year. Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz, the world’s
third-biggest luxury-car manufacturer, has abandoned profit
targets and initiated a cost-cutting plan because of the
slowdown and an aging model line-up.  BMW has responded to the European market contraction by
shifting “tens of thousands” of cars originally bound for the
region to Asia and the U.S., Robertson said. A “tough European
market” is expected in 2013 and probably also 2014, while
demand in  China  will continue to expand next year, he said.  U.S. sales of the BMW brand increased 45 percent in
November to 31,213 cars and sport-utility vehicles, narrowing
the gap with Mercedes-Benz in that market this year. The
Stuttgart, Germany-based competitor’s U.S. sales rose 13 percent
in November to 30,315 deliveries.  The 4-Series coupe will share underpinnings with the sedan
version of the 3-Series while having a broader, lower and longer
design to add sportiness. Sales of the model are expected to
remain at a low level in the first year of introduction,
eventually picking up to surpass the previous generation’s
figures, Robertson said.  The three-door coupe version accounted for about 10 percent
of total 3-Series sales last year. The 4-Series will have
“competitive” pricing in its segment, Robertson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Munich via 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  