-- Brazil Swap Rates Sink as Itau Sees 2013 Rate Cuts; Real Gains
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   M a r i s a   C a s t e l l a n i
-- 2012-12-06T20:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/brazil-swap-rates-sink-as-itau-sees-2013-rate-cuts-real-gains.html
Brazilian swap rates tumbled to a
record as  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4)  forecast the central bank
will resume cutting borrowing costs next year to bolster an
economy that grew at half the pace analysts projected.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2014 plunged 23
basis points, or 0.23 percentage point, to 6.87 percent at the
close in Sao Paulo, the biggest drop since May 4. The real
gained for a fourth day, appreciating 0.5 percent to 2.0774 per
dollar. It rallied yesterday the most since June after Brazil
removed capital controls that curbed appreciation.  Latin America’s largest economy grew 0.9 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, less than half the 1.9
percent median forecast of 48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg,
the national statistics agency said last week.  Brazil ’s central
bank left the target rate at a record low 7.25 in November,
ending 5.25 percentage points of reductions since August 2011,
the most among the Group of 20 nations.  Gross domestic product “disappointed in the third quarter,
and growth in 2012 and 2013 should be weaker,” Ilan Goldfajn,
the chief economist at Itau, wrote in a report today. “More
stimulus, including rate cuts, should follow.” The bank
projects that policy makers will lower the target lending rate
by 1 percentage point to 6.25 percent in 2013.  Brazil’s swap rates indicated today that traders project a
59 percent chance of a cut in borrowing costs in March, compared
with a 19.5 percent likelihood yesterday.  The monetary policy committee signaled in the minutes of
its Nov. 27-28 meeting, published today, that it would keep
target lending rate, known as the Selic, at record lows for a
prolonged period.  Rate Outlook  “The expectation of a rate increase in 2013 disappeared
completely, and the market is already pricing in a 0.25
percentage point cut starting in March,”  Jankiel Santos , the
chief economist at Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento SA, said
in a telephone interview. “The minutes are more dovish than the
quarterly inflation report” published in September.  Barclays Plc reduced its 2013 target rate forecast to 6.25
percent, predicting in a report published today two reductions
of 0.50 percentage point in January and March.  Yields dropped today at the Treasury’s 6.2 billion reais
auction of fixed-rate zero-coupon bills known as LTNs as traders
speculated interest rates will drop.  “Spreads are all tightening,” Ricardo Tibau, a fixed-
income trader at Renascenca DTVM Ltda. in Sao Paulo, said in a
phone interview. “There’s a market consensus that the Selic
will fall.”  Auction Results  The yield on 284 million reais worth of the bills maturing
in October 2013 was 6.92 percent, or 26 basis points less than
the auction of similar-maturity debt Nov. 22. Yields on LTNs
maturing in April 2015 and July 2016 also fell.  The real rallied a day after Finance Minister Guido Mantega
told reporters in Brasilia that the government may further
unwind capital restrictions put in place to curb the real’s
gains and protect exporters.  Brazil reduced yesterday the maturity of foreign loans
subject to a 6 percent tax to one year from two years after
announcing Dec. 4 it would exempt exporters from the same level
of tax on some borrowing. The real surged 1.5 percent yesterday,
the biggest gain since June 29.  Policy makers maintain that the real has weakened to a
level that doesn’t correspond with economic fundamentals, a
central bank official with knowledge of the discussions said in
an interview with Bloomberg. Traders wrongly bet that the
government is working to keep the exchange rate within a range,
said the official, who asked not to be identified because he
wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly.  ‘More’ Cuts  Rolling back capital controls shows the government is less
likely to use a weaker real to stimulate growth, said  Vladimir Caramaschi , the chief strategist at Credit Agricole Brasil SA.  “The possibility of more rate cuts has gained strength
because the central bank did not sanction attempts to further
weaken the real,” Caramaschi said in a phone interview from Sao
Paulo. “If they don’t use the currency, the chance of using
rates increases.”  Policy makers have swung in 2012 between selling currency
swaps aimed at preventing the real from depreciating too quickly
and offering reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by
keeping the real from strengthening.  The central bank sold $2.1 billion in currency swaps in two
auctions on Dec. 3 and $1.6 billion in a Nov. 23 offering to
stem the real’s declines. From August through October, the bank
sold reverse currency swaps to keep the real weaker than 2 per
dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Marisa Castellani in Sao Paulo at 
 mcastellani7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  