-- Brazil Bank Signals Key Rate Stable for Prolonged Time
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-12-06T11:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/brazil-central-bank-signals-rate-stable-for-prolonged-time-1-.html
(Corrects date of Mantega interview in sixth paragraph.)  Brazil ’s central bank signaled it
will keep interest rates at their current level for an extended
period given favorable signs for the inflation outlook.  The rate-setting committee “assesses that the prospective
scenario for inflation presents favorable signs and reaffirms
its vision that inflation accumulated over 12 months is tending
to converge toward the target, though in a non-linear fashion,”
the bank said in the minutes to its Nov. 27-28 meeting published
today.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, voted
unanimously last week to keep the benchmark Selic rate at a
 record  low 7.25 percent, marking the end of the biggest easing
cycle among the Group of 20 nations. Even as the world’s second-
biggest emerging economy struggles to pick up speed, policy
makers kept borrowing costs steady to ensure that  inflation ,
which has been running above the 4.5 percent target for more
than two years, doesn’t get out of hand.  The board, in a statement accompanying its Nov. 28
decision, pledged to keep monetary conditions stable for a
“prolonged period” as the global economy remains adverse and
domestic activity struggles to recover. Since August 2011, the
central bank has cut  interest rates  by 525 basis points as
President  Dilma Rousseff  reduced taxes, pressured commercial
banks to lower rates and raised tariffs to help manufacturers.  ‘Cocaine’ Rates  Brazil’s economy expanded in the third quarter at 0.6
percent, half the pace forecast by economists, as investment
fell for the fifth straight period. As a result, economists in
the central bank’s latest survey cut their 2013 growth forecasts
to 3.7 percent from 3.94 percent. They forecast gross domestic
product will expand 1.27 percent this year, less than the U.S.
as well as Russia, India and  China .  The government’s measures have set the stage for the
economy to grow 4 percent in 2013, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said in an interview on Dec. 4.  “Lower interest rates, lower taxes and a more competitive
 exchange rate  are the pillars of an economy that will start
investing more,” Mantega said in his Brasilia office. “The
economy was addicted to high interest rates. It’s an addiction
almost like cocaine.”  Long-Term Rate  Mantega announced yesterday a reduction in national
development bank BNDES’ long-term lending rate, known as TJLP,
to 5 percent from 5.5 percent effective in January. BNDES will
also extend for another year by 100 billion reais ($47.9
billion) an emergency credit line established during the 2009
credit freeze to fund the purchase of capital goods. Of the
total, up to 15 billion in loans can come from private banks
against deposits they’re required to hold at the central bank,
he said.  Some indicators show the economy may already have bottomed
out. Retail sales in September  grew  for the fourth straight
month, and industrial production in October  rose  from the
previous year for the first time since August 2011. Consumer
 confidence  reached its highest level in November since December
2010.  Even as growth remains sluggish, policy makers are still
battling higher consumer prices. Inflation accelerated to 5.64
percent in the year through mid-November, the  fastest  pace since
February. Economists in a central bank survey last week forecast
it will slow to 5.43 percent in 2013.  Tombini said in an interview last month that inflation will
converge to the central bank’s target by the third quarter of
next year though not necessarily in a linear fashion. Earlier in
2012 he repeatedly predicted it would reach the target by year-
end.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  