-- Brent Favored Over WTI Oil by U.S. for First Time
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-12-06T21:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/brent-favored-over-wti-by-u-s-for-first-time-as-prices-diverge.html
Even the U.S. Energy Department no
longer deems America’s benchmark oil grade the best guide to
global prices, as rising production swells national stockpiles.  The Energy Information Administration in  Washington 
dispensed with West Texas Intermediate for its price forecasts
in its  Annual Energy Outlook 2013  released yesterday, adopting
North Sea Brent crude instead. It’s the first time the
department has used Brent, reflecting “a growing discrepancy”
between WTI and global crude prices, it said.  WTI has fallen 13 percent this year as the U.S produces oil
at the fastest rate in almost two decades amid a boom in
horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or fracking,
that’s putting the country on course to become self-sufficient
in energy. Brent, a benchmark grade for prices from Saudi Arabia
to  Russia , is little changed, supported by demand in Asia and
concern about supply disruptions from the North Sea to Libya and
international sanctions on Iranian exports.  “This makes perfect sense as Brent is a better reflection
of global oil demand and supply than WTI,”  Gordon Kwan , the
head of regional energy research for Mirae Assets Securities
Ltd. in Hong Kong, said in a phone interview. “WTI has become a
misleading price indicator for global economic growth and will
become increasingly less relevant versus Brent oil.”  Prices, Weightings  Prices have diverged as U.S. companies have struggled to
move oil from North Dakota and  Canada  to refineries on the east
and Gulf coasts. WTI traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
was $20.77 cheaper than Brent on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe Exchange based on settlement prices. It was an average
$1.01 more expensive in the 10 years through 2010.  Brent’s allocation in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Commodity
Index of 24 raw materials will be increased to 22.34 percent
from 18.35 percent in 2013, while WTI’s will be cut to 24.71
percent from 30.96 percent, Michael McGlone, a vice president at
S&P Dow Jones Indices, said on Nov. 5.  “This is the first time the AEO is using Brent as the main
driver in the reference case,” said Adam Sieminski,
administrator of the EIA, a unit of the U.S. Energy Department,
referring to the outlook. “It was important for EIA to use a
global marker.”  The opening of pipelines to relieve the glut of oil at
Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for Nymex futures, may
still help to narrow WTI’s discount to Brent, according to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The difference in price, or spread,
will fall to $6 a barrel next year, Goldman said in a research
report published yesterday.  CME Group  CME Group Inc. (CME) , which operates the Nymex where WTI is
traded, criticized the EIA’s move. WTI has been weighed down by
a lack of access to waterborne markets, a situation that will
change with pipeline reversals and additions and growing rail
capacity, said Gary Morsches, CME Group’s managing director for
global energy products and services.  “I don’t think it was a very good decision,” Morsches
said at a luncheon in Houston. “WTI is not going away for a
long time.”  Brent is priced higher than its true value because of
declining production and increased shipments to South Korea,
which signed a free-trade accord in July 2011 with the European
Union, he said.  Rival Volumes  Daily trading in ICE Brent futures jumped 13 percent to
average 560,149 contracts in the year to Dec. 5 compared with
all of 2011, while Nymex WTI fell 18 percent to 567,583,
according to data from the exchanges compiled by Bloomberg. That
was the narrowest gap in trading volumes between the two grades
in percentage terms since they began trading in the 1980s.  The number of Brent futures changing hands has also
 exceeded  those for WTI every month from April through October,
the longest streak since at least 1995.  WTI will continue to represent a land-locked crude until
infrastructure is built to connect it to global markets,
according to  Anthony Nunan , a senior adviser for risk management
at  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  in  Tokyo .  “Brent represents the Northwest Europe sweet market, but
since it’s used as the benchmark for all West African and
Mediterranean crude, and now for some Southeast Asia crudes,
it’s directly linked to a larger global market,” Nunan said in
a telephone interview. “It just became obvious to switch to
another marker.”  Brent is closer to the prices of crudes from the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries than WTI, making
it a more useful reference point at OPEC meetings. Ministers
from the 12-member producer group are due to meet next week in
Vienna.  The OPEC Basket price, representing export grades from all
its members, closed at $107.20 a barrel yesterday. Brent futures
settled at $107.03 today, down $1.78, or 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net ;
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  