-- HTC to Make Quarterly Payments to Apple Based on Volume
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-12-06T15:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/htc-to-make-quarterly-payments-to-apple-based-on-volume-1-.html
HTC Corp. (2498)  will make royalty payments
to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  on a quarterly basis and pledges not to make
“cloned” copies of Apple products as part of the settlement of
their global patents battle, according to an agreement filed in
a U.S. court.  Fees paid by HTC will be based on sales volumes and made 45
days after the end of each quarter, according to a redacted
version of the patent license and settlement agreement signed by
both sides and filed yesterday. HTC gets access to some of
Apple’s patented inventions while agreeing not to copy designs.  That 10-year deal, announced by the two companies Nov. 11,
ended patent-infringement lawsuits which spanned the globe and
threatened shipments. The agreement was filed after a U.S.
District Court ruling in a separate case between Apple and
Samsung Electronics Co.  Each side licenses some of their patents to the other
company. HTC won’t get any rights to Apple design patents,
copyrights, distinctive looks, trademarks or know-how. Some of
Apple’s design patents, covering the look of the iPhone and
iPad, are at the heart of its dispute with Samsung, the world’s
largest maker of smartphones.  Samsung demanded to see more details of the HTC settlement,
including which patents were covered. Later today, it is
scheduled to ask a federal judge in San Jose,  California , to
throw out a $1 billion patent-infringement verdict it lost in
August. The Korean company also is trying to ward off a court
order that would limit the sales of some of its products in the
U.S.  ‘Bubble Slider’  The agreement gives specific examples of what HTC can and
cannot do. It can’t use the “slide to unlock” feature if it
looks like one used by Apple. It can, however, use a different
method such as a “bubble slider” or animation at another
location. Functional methods, such as the pinch-to-zoom feature,
“will not be considered a Distinctive Apple User Experience,”
according to the contract. Violations of that provision could
result in arbitration proceedings.  HTC may choose between two payment options for its royalty-
bearing units, according to the 143-page agreement. The royalty
amounts and the payment choices were blacked out from the
document.  The limits on which patents Apple is willing to license is
consistent with the Cupertino, California-based company’s public
statements that it objects only to phones or tablet computers
that it sees as copycats of the iPhone and iPad.  In its 2011 licensing agreement with  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , Apple said
it wasn’t giving the Finnish handset maker access to iPhone-
specific patents.  Distinguishing Products  “Apple has a general policy against licensing its
inventions, particularly to competitors,” Apple said in a Nov.
27 appeals court filing in which it is trying to revive
infringement claims against Google’s Motorola Mobility unit.
Apple’s “business model is all about distinguishing its
products from the competition’s.”  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  