-- Cablevision Boosts Internet Fees for First Time in Decade
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-12-06T21:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/cablevision-boosts-internet-fees-for-first-time-in-decade.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , the fifth-
largest U.S. cable company, is increasing the price of its high-
speed Internet service for all users by $5 a month in early
2013, the first increase for broadband in a decade.  The new pricing will result in an average increase of 3.2
percent on monthly bills for Internet customers who aren’t
currently receiving promotional pricing, the company said in an
e-mailed statement.  Cablevision, which has 3.25 million video customers and
about 3 million Internet subscribers, didn’t increase rates for
video, broadband, or phone service at all in 2012. The Bethpage,
New York-based cable operator has spent $140 million improving
its infrastructure and building the largest Wi-Fi network in the
nation, with more than 50,000 indoor and outdoor hotspots that
are free to Internet customers.  “This is a huge deal,” Amy Yong, an analyst at Macquarie
Securities in New York, said in an interview. “Investors have
been scared because of the expenses related to  Hurricane Sandy .
The fact they feel they can raise prices is fantastic.”  Cablevision Chief Financial Officer Gregg Seibert said last
month Hurricane Sandy costs from damages and crediting customers
for outages could be “significant.”  The hurricane may result in a decline of as much as 30
percent in adjusted operating cash flow in the fourth quarter
from a year earlier, Tom Eagan, an analyst with Canaccord
Genuity Corp., said in a note to clients last month. Eagan
downgraded his rating on Cablevision to hold from buy on Nov.
27.  Phone and cable-TV prices will not be increased, according
to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  