-- Cadillac’s ATS Sport Sedan Nips at BMW 3 Series’ Heels
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-12-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/cadillac-s-ats-sport-sedan-nips-at-bmw-3-series-heels.html
Cadillac has just released a brand-
new sports sedan called the ATS, and executives say that it’s a
true-blue driver’s car. A sedan for joyful drives.  As a compact with all-wheel-drive, it’s a major release for
Cadillac and its parent  General Motors (GM) , potentially proving that
they can make an upmarket sedan with European-style sports car
chops.  The longstanding champion of this totally subjective
concept is the BMW 3 Series. Little wonder that Cadillac took
careful aim at the 3, mimicking its general dimensions and
engine sizes.  The 2.0-liter, turbo-charged four-cylinder starts at
$36,700. A 3.6-liter V-6 model with all of the options piled on
can run up to $55,000.  There is a silver 3.6-liter ATS sitting in my driveway,
frost spider-webbing the windshield. I’ve got an appointment
later this morning at Monticello Motor Club in New York’s
Catskills and I’ve chosen a series of back roads to get me
there.  My car has a standard six-speed automatic transmission and
$2,000 worth of options, including a cold weather package and
navigation system. Final price: $46,785.  My first road north, out of  Pennsylvania ’s Poconos toward
Interstate 84, is a beauty.  Loopy Road  The two-lane road runs along the hills like cursive script,
patterning through copses of now-bare trees in loopy S’s and
elongated C’s. There’s a light fog drifting along the ground and
it’s too narrow to go fast anyhow.  Instead I concentrate on the steering wheel and its sharp
command of the wheels underneath. There’s a good connective feel
between the components, a sense that the leather under my
fingertips is talking to the rubber down below. The car points
with accuracy.  The woods are rife with deer, spring-loaded to dash into
traffic, so I poke the brakes, testing. I’m reassured by the
response.  The  ATS  is a compact sedan and small by today’s standards.
The cabin is sized for regular humans, and you’ll occasionally
bump elbows with your passenger. I’m fine with that, as the
exterior footprint is modest, too, allowing for room to make
adjustments on an average-sized lane.  Turn off the traction control and the ATS becomes puppy
playful, wagging its tail. It merrily peels out at T-stop
intersections. Small adjustments bring it under control. This is
not a mean car.  Smooth Handling  I enter the freeway and the off-ramp is lousy with broken
pavement. The ATS glides over without the expected chatter. This
is even without Cadillac’s magnetic suspension, which becomes
softer or stiffer according to road conditions, and is only
available on the most expensive Premium model.  It also says something about the locales where suspensions
are developed.  Germany ’s roads are smooth.  Michigan ’s aren’t.
The ATS handles bad pavement far more handily than the BMW’s.  The highway allows me time to turn on the radio and look
over the navigation. This is all controlled by Cadillac’s brand-
new CUE system -- a finicky touch screen and a few “invisible”
buttons underneath. It’s a mess. I disliked it on the new XTS
front-wheel-drive Cadillac, and I find no more reason to like it
now.  Customer Service  I wonder how long it will take Cadillac to make revisions.
Will they be proactive, or react like BMW did years ago with its
first-generation iDrive, insisting that it is the consumers who
aren’t “getting” it?  I dip off the highway, through the  New York  town of Port
Jervis, and further north on another two-lane road that runs
through open country.  The ATS sprints along the backs of broad hills easily,
giving me ever greater confidence. Not perfect, though. Looking
through corners, I often find that the A-pillar is in my way,
hampering sight lines.  I’m almost sorry to arrive at the track, where I’m testing
a race car, not the ATS. Regarding the skin of the ATS, I wish,
not for the first time, that it was more interesting. The
exterior lacks a point of view, as if styled by committee.  Several hours later, I return to the Cadillac. Why not? I
put on my helmet and roll it out onto the track. Monticello has
one of the longest straightaways in the U.S.  A very short time later I’m traveling at more than 140
miles per hour, headed toward a hard braking zone and a sharp
right turn. Do I believe that the ATS will handle it? I do.
Implicitly.  So, is it as good as the BMW 3 Series? In a few objective
ways, such as the Cue infotainment system and styling, it simply
isn’t. But subjectively, I can tell you this: It can make for a
truly joyous drive.  The 2013 Cadillac ATS 3.6-liter Performance at a Glance  Engine: 3.6-liter V-6 with 321 horsepower and 275 pound-  feet of torque.  Transmission: Six-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 5.4 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 19 city, 28 highway.  Price as tested: $46,785.  Best feature: The confidence-inspiring handling.  Worst feature: Cue infotainment system.  Target buyer: The traditional BMW buyer who wants to go  American.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  gadgets  and
Katya Kazakina on  art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 