-- California High-Speed Rail Too Expensive, McCarthy Says
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-12-06T16:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/california-high-speed-rail-too-expensive-mccarthy-says.html
California ’s $68.4 billion high-speed
rail project is looking for too much money from the U.S.
government and should be reconsidered, said California
Representative Kevin McCarthy, the U.S. House’s third-ranking
Republican.  “Maybe it’s time when we cut our losses,” McCarthy said
today at a House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee
hearing in Washington.  An additional $38 billion sought for the project from
federal coffers would be more than the $31 billion a year
Congress is seeking in annual additional revenue from a deal to
resolve the year-end deadlines for automatic spending cuts and
tax increases, he said.  “California started this discussion when it had a
surplus,” McCarthy said. “That is not the same perspective
where California is today, and it is definitely not where the
federal government is today.”  McCarthy criticized the project at a hearing called by the
committee’s chairman, Florida Republican John Mica, who has said
$10 billion in U.S. money designated for high-speed rail should
have been concentrated in fewer projects.  California’s project, which would start with track in the
state’s Central Valley before connecting with its biggest
cities, is courting sovereign-wealth funds, pensions and
endowments for more than $50 billion to fund the most expensive
public-works project in U.S. history.  California is the only U.S. state working to lay tracks for
trains running as fast as 220 miles an hour (354 kilometers an
hour). It’s counting on $10 billion in bonds authorized by
voters and $3.3 billion committed by the federal government so
far.  Private Investment  The U.S. Transportation Department, which disbursed the
high-speed rail money to California and other states,
“absolutely” wants private-sector funding to be part of the
California project, Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said at
the hearing.  “There are lots of private investors working with
California,” LaHood said. “We know full well this project will
not be fully funded by the federal government. California knows
that.”  McCarthy also questioned the location of the start of the
project because it’s in more lightly populated areas than San
Francisco and Los Angeles.  “I know Hollywood happens to be in California, but this is
not a Kevin Costner movie,” he said, referring to the 1989
movie “Field of Dreams.” “If we build it, I’m not sure they
will come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  