-- California Rejected 66% Carbon Permit Bids Last Month
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-12-06T21:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/california-carbon-permits-bids-averaged-15-60-last-month.html
California , the second-biggest carbon
polluter in the U.S., behind Texas, said companies offered an
average $15.60 a ton for emissions allowances in a state auction
in November.  The price exceeds a preliminary figure of $13.75 a ton
issued last month for all submitted bids because some offers
were subsequently rejected for violating purchasing and holding
limits or bid guarantees, the state  Air Resources Board  said on
its website today. The state disqualified 66 percent of
companies’ offers from the auction, according to Bloomberg’s
calculation of the data provided by the state.  The bids were thrown out “during the auction settlement
when we determined who exceeded holding limits, purchase limits
or bid guarantees,” Dave Clegern, an air board spokesman in
 Sacramento , said by e-mail. “In the future we will be releasing
all the information at once, including quantities of both
submitted and qualified bids.”  After the disqualifications, the state had 1.06 legitimate
bids per permit for the 23.1 million permits put up for sale on
Nov. 14. Last month the state reported it had 3.1 bids for every
permit available.  “The 1.06 number is a big surprise,”  William Nelson , a
Bloomberg New Energy Finance analyst in New York, said by e-
mail. “The auction barely squeaked by.”  Futures Unchanged  Futures based on California carbon permits for 2013 were
unchanged yesterday at $13 a ton. Prices jumped to a six-week
high of $13.20 on Dec. 3 as more companies were seen trading
contracts and on speculation that  Edison International (EIX) ’s San
Onofre nuclear power plant, shut since January because of tube
wear, may remain down next year.  California, the world’s ninth-largest economy, developed an
emissions program after the U.S. failed to come up with a
national system in 2010. The air board sold all 23.1 million
permits offered at the auction for the first compliance period
of the state’s cap-and-trade program, which starts Jan. 1. They
went for $10.09 a ton, 9 cents above the $10 floor price.  Mary Nichols , chairwoman of the air resources board,
described the auction results on Nov. 19 as a “sign that we’ve
got a vibrant and successful market.”  Capping Emissions  The state created the world’s second-biggest carbon market,
behind the European Union’s emissions trading system, and will
eventually regulate 85 percent of emissions released within its
borders.  California plans to cap  carbon emissions  beginning next
year from power generators, oil refineries and other industrial
plants. The limit will decline each year to achieve a 15 percent
reduction in emissions by 2020. Companies must surrender carbon
permits to cover their emissions over three phases of the
program. Those that discharge less than their cap can sell their
spare allowances.  The state is giving away about 90 percent of the permits at
the onset and selling the rest in quarterly auctions.  The air board sold 5.58 million out of the 39.5 million
allowances it put up for auction last month to be used in the
second phase of the program, beginning in 2015. The advance
permits cleared at $10 each, the lowest price allowed by the
program, known as the floor price.  More than 70 companies qualified to bid in the first
auction, with  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  among the
refiners who registered to participate. Power utilities included
Pacific Gas & Electric Co. and Southern California Edison.
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Royal Bank of Canada  also qualified to bid.  The agency plans to sell at least 56.8 million allowances
for the first phase of the program next year and 38.2 million
permits for compliance in 2016. The lowest allowable price
during next year’s sales will be $10.71 a ton.  The board is scheduled to hold auctions Feb. 19, May 16,
Aug. 16 and Nov. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  