-- Canada October Building Permits Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-12-06T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/canada-october-building-permits-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
October building permits report from  Statistics Canada .  The total value of building permits rose 15.0% to $7.5
billion in October, following a 12.7% decline in September. The
increase was primarily the result of higher construction
intentions for non-residential buildings, mostly in Ontario and
Quebec.  Construction intentions in the non-residential sector grew
50.3% to $3.4 billion, following a 29.4% decrease in September.
Ontario and Quebec were responsible for most of the advance
observed at the national level. British Columbia and Prince
 Edward Island  posted declines.  In the residential sector, the value of permits fell 4.1%
to $4.1 billion in October, the third monthly decrease in four
months. British Columbia had the largest decline, followed by
Ontario. Saskatchewan, Alberta and Manitoba also recorded
decreases. The Atlantic provinces and Quebec posted gains.  Non-residential sector: Strong gains in the industrial and
institutional components  In the industrial component, the value of permits tripled
to $1.1 billion in October, rising above the $1 billion mark for
the first time. The increase, which followed a 48.8% decline in
September, was largely the result of higher construction
intentions for manufacturing plants, transportation-related
buildings and utilities buildings. Construction intentions for
industrial buildings were up in every province except Manitoba
and  New Brunswick .  The value of permits in the institutional component rose
69.6% to $982 million in October. The increase was largely
attributable to higher construction intentions for medical
facilities and educational institutions in Ontario, and for
government buildings and educational institutions in Manitoba.  In the commercial component, the value of permits edged up
0.1% to $1.4 billion. The advance came from a variety of
buildings, including retail complexes, recreational facilities,
and hotels and restaurants in Ontario and Quebec. Commercial
construction intentions declined in four provinces, with British
Columbia and Alberta posting the largest decreases.  Residential sector: Lower construction intentions for single-
family and multi-family dwellings  Construction intentions for single-family dwellings fell
4.9% to $2.4 billion in October. It was the third decrease in
four months. The decline was mainly attributable to lower
construction intentions in five provinces, led by Ontario, with
Manitoba and  Quebec  well behind. In contrast, Newfoundland and
Labrador and Alberta recorded the largest gains.  Municipalities issued $1.7 billion worth of building
permits for multi-family dwellings in October, 3.0% less than in
September. It was the fourth consecutive monthly decrease. There
were declines in three provinces, led by British Columbia,
followed by Alberta and Saskatchewan. The decrease in British
Columbia was enough to offset the advances observed in other
provinces.  Municipalities approved the construction of 18,744 new
dwellings in October, up 6.9% from September.  The growth was because of a 16.3% increase in multi-family
units to 11,818. In contrast, the number of permits issued for
single-family dwellings fell 6.0% to 6,926 units.  Provinces: Ontario and Quebec post the largest advances  In October, the total value of building permits was up in
six provinces. Ontario had the largest advance, followed by
Quebec and Manitoba.  Ontario’s gain was attributable to a strong increase in
non-residential building construction intentions.  In Quebec, the gain was mostly the result of higher
construction intentions for industrial and commercial buildings
and, to a lesser extent, for multi-family dwellings. In Manitoba,
construction permits for institutional buildings and multi-
family dwellings were behind the increase.  British Columbia saw the largest decline, as a result of
lower construction intentions for commercial and institutional
buildings and multi-family dwellings.  Higher permits value in most census metropolitan areas  In October, the total value of permits was up in 20 of
 Canada ’s 34 census metropolitan areas.  The largest increases were in Hamilton, Toronto and
Montréal. In Hamilton, the advance came mainly from permits for
institutional buildings and, to a lesser extent, for multi-
family dwellings and commercial buildings.  Toronto’s increase was primarily the result of higher
construction intentions for non-residential buildings. In
Montréal, the gain was attributable in particular to higher
construction intentions for industrial buildings and multi-
family dwellings.  Vancouver  had the largest decline, primarily because of
lower construction intentions for commercial buildings, multi-
family dwellings and institutional buildings. In Saskatoon, the
decrease stemmed largely from lower construction intentions for
institutional buildings, while in Gatineau, multi-family
dwellings and commercial buildings were behind the decrease.  Note to readers  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations. For more information on seasonal
adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic
trends ( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc -
cel?catno=11-010-X201000311141&amp;lang=fra) .  The Building Permits Survey covers 2,400 municipalities
representing 95% of the population. It provides an early
indication of building activity.  The communities representing the other 5% of the population
are very small, and their levels of building activity have
little impact on the total for the entire population.  The value of planned construction activities shown in this
release excludes engineering projects (for example, waterworks,
sewers or culverts) and land.  For the purpose of this release, the census metropolitan
area of Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/Quebec) is divided into two
areas: Gatineau part and Ottawa part.  Revision  Data for the current reference month are subject to
revision based on late responses. Data have been revised for the
previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  