-- Caterpillar CEO Anticipating Economic Recovery in China
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h   a n d   C a r o l   M a s s a r
-- 2012-12-06T16:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/caterpillar-ceo-anticipating-economic-recovery-in-china.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  anticipates a recovery in
China, the world’s second-largest economy, as the government
focuses on urbanization.  “China is showing some signs of life,” Oberhelman said in
an interview with Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television’s “In
the Loop” today. The country accounts for about 3 percent of
the Peoria, Illinois-based company’s sales, according to a Nov.
13 presentation.  China said this week it plans to actively promote
urbanization programs under new leader Xi Jinping. That may
drive sales at Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of
construction and mining equipment. The company’s inventory in
China rose this year as the economy slowed, and Oberhelman
expects economic growth to increase next year.  “Urbanization brings a lot of infrastructure
requirements,” said Oberhelman, who visited the country in
October. “I’m convinced we are going to see positive changes in
the next few months. I’m pretty optimistic about China, not a
big boom like we’ve seen, but slowly recovering.”  Since becoming CEO in 2010, Oberhelman has bet on growth in
 emerging markets  including China by expanding and building new
factories and acquiring mining equipment makers such as Bucyrus
International Inc. in Wisconsin for $8.6 billion and China’s ERA
Mining Machinery Ltd. for about $790 million. Caterpillar on
Oct. 22 forecast sales growth for 2013 that would be slower than
in the previous three years.  Oberhelman said while the company may look at smaller
acquisitions, there is “nothing on the horizon” on the scale
of Bucyrus.  Avoiding Cliff  Oberhelman said he expects President  Barack Obama  and
Congressional leaders to negotiate a deal to avoid the
combination of spending cuts and tax increases known as the
fiscal cliff.  “I really believe we will meet the deadline,” he said.
“Assuming no fiscal cliff, which I am assuming, the U.S. will
look pretty good in 2013, not great but not bad,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;
 Carol Massar  in  New York  at 
 cmassar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  