-- Catholic Groups’ Can Pursue Contraceptive Coverage Suit
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-12-06T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/catholic-groups-can-pursue-contraceptive-coverage-suit.html
The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of  New
York  and two other Catholic entities can proceed with their
legal challenge to a provision of the Obama administration’s
health-care law requiring group health insurers to cover
contraceptives.  U.S. District Judge Brian Cogan in Brooklyn, New York,
refused the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Service’s
request to dismiss the case, ruling that the archdiocese, which
includes 370 parishes and insures 9,000 people, is facing
impending injuries from the rule, even though it doesn’t take
effect until January 2014, according to a court filing
yesterday.  The government said the case should be dismissed because
the coverage mandate isn’t causing imminent injury and there
will be changes to the requirements to accommodate the interests
of religious organizations, according to the filing. Cogan ruled
that the archdiocese doesn’t have to take the government’s word
that the changes will address its opposition to the mandate.  “Plaintiffs here have demonstrated how the enormous
changes to their plans required by the coverage mandate
currently exacerbate their preparation costs,” Cogan said.
“They have also demonstrated that the imminent operation of the
coverage mandate has already caused them to divert funds from
their ministries.”  Health Plan  The archdiocese operates a self-insured health plan that
bars contraception coverage except for other, medically
necessary purposes.  The contraceptive requirement is part of President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act,
intended to created almost-universal health-care insurance
coverage.  Forty-three Catholic organizations, including the
archdioceses of New York and Washington, as well as the
University of  Notre Dame  and the  Catholic University  of America,
filed 12 lawsuits earlier this year in courts across the
country, arguing that the mandate violates the freedom of
religion guaranteed in the U.S. Constitution’s First Amendment.  The case is Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York v.
Sebelius, 12-02542, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New
York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  