-- Celebrity Publicist Clifford Arrested in Sex-Abuse Probe
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-12-07T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/celebrity-publicist-clifford-arrested-in-savile-sex-abuse-probe.html
Max Clifford, a celebrity publicist
who has represented  O.J. Simpson ,  David Beckham  and  Simon Cowell , was arrested by U.K. police probing decades-old
pedophilia claims against people in the entertainment industry.  Clifford, 69, was detained yesterday by officers
investigating the abuse of hundreds of children over almost 50
years by people including the late British Broadcasting Corp.
television star Jimmy Savile, whose actions are at the center of
the case.  “Max Clifford is being interviewed by police,” his lawyer
 Charlotte Harris , of Mishcon de Reya in London, said in an e-
mailed statement. “He will assist police as best he can with
their inquiries. When we are in a position to provide further
information we will.”  The probe was opened in October after broadcaster  ITV Plc (ITV) 
aired a story about Savile almost a year after his death at the
age of 84. Savile and the other suspects were involved in sexual
abuse on an “unprecedented scale,” Commander Peter Spindler
said when the investigation started.  The Metropolitan Police Service said yesterday it detained
a man in his 60s for sexual offenses, without identifying him.
He was later bailed. It’s the fifth arrest in what’s being
called Operation Yewtree, which is targeting people who may have
engaged in abuse with Savile or acted on their own during the
same period. Other people arrested include singer Gary Glitter
and former BBC disc jockey Dave Lee Travis.  Messages left at Clifford’s firm, London-based  Max Clifford 
Associates Ltd., and the phones of two of his assistants,
weren’t returned. An e-mail also wasn’t returned.  Phone Hacking  Clifford was the subject of news stories earlier this year
because he was a victim of phone hacking by  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s now-
defunct News of the World tabloid. In February, he told a media-
ethics inquiry triggered by that scandal that he personally
negotiated a roughly 1 million-pound ($1.58 million) settlement
with Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer of News
Corp.’s U.K. unit who was arrested last year.  Clifford’s company, which promotes celebrity news items to
U.K. tabloids, was responsible for more than 170 “front-page
exclusives” in the last 18 months, according to his website.
Most pages on Clifford’s website stopped working after reports
of his arrest yesterday.  Police are investigating claims dating back as far as 1959
and as recent as 2006, including that Savile, who hosted  BBC 
shows “Top of the Pops” and “Jim’ll Fix It,” misused his
status as a charity worker to abuse hospital patients.  The BBC, the world’s largest public broadcaster, reported
on Nov. 11 that Yewtree officers arrested a former BBC producer
who worked on one of Savile’s shows and is now in his 70s. The
Met hasn’t identified any of the people arrested.  The BBC appointed former Court of Appeal Judge Janet Smith
and ex- British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  journalist Nick
Pollard on Oct. 17 to head internal investigations. Victims’
lawyers have said they may sue the BBC over claims it’s liable
for Savile’s wrongdoing.  Former BBC Director General George Entwistle stepped down
on Nov. 10 as a result of the scandal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  