-- Dodd-Frank Swap Rules Delayed as Agency Eases Transition
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-12-07T17:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/cftc-said-to-consider-six-month-delay-in-cross-border-rules-1-.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission may delay some Dodd-Frank Act overseas swaps rules
for about six months, part of a wave of last-minute exemptions
and postponements to ease transition to new regulations.  The derivatives regulator may put off compliance for
overseas-based operations of banks including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  for some risk-management rules
that begin to take effect at the end of the month, according to
two people who asked not to be identified because the delay
hasn’t been made public. The agency has already released more
than 40 no-action letters postponing other Dodd-Frank rules, and
officials have signaled that more are coming.  “We have and will continue to grant requests for phased
compliance,” CFTC chairman  Gary Gensler  said in a telephone
interview yesterday. The delays are designed to “smooth the
transition” to new oversight rules, he said.  Dodd-Frank derivatives rules, originally intended to be in
place in July 2011, have been delayed as the government seeks
feedback on how to bring swaps under its oversight. The
regulations will for the first time lead Wall Street’s largest
banks to register as swap dealers with the CFTC at the end of
the year and will require them to use clearinghouses to settle
interest-rate and credit-default trades by mid-March.  The CFTC’s rulemaking process will face scrutiny next week
from U.S. House lawmakers. A House Financial Services
subcommittee  hearing  on derivatives has been  scheduled  for Dec.
12, and the House Agriculture Committee has planned a hearing
for Dec. 13 on the international scope of the CFTC’s rules.  ‘Swiss Cheese’  The five-member commission has released more than 40
letters since January saying it won’t enforce some of the rules
for months -- and in some cases never.  The no-action letters have made the agency’s rulemaking
process “resemble swiss cheese,”  Scott O’Malia  , one of two
Republicans on the five-member commission, said in a Nov. 30
speech. “In addition to the rulemaking process, we have in
effect been forced to set up a parallel exemptive process to
provide relief from these rules,” he said.  The letters give relief to entire industries or specific
companies, including JPMorgan, the largest U.S. swaps dealer,
and LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., the world’s largest clearinghouse
for  interest-rate swaps . Sometimes the letters aren’t released
to the public for weeks.  ‘Teeth Out’  “Maybe four years from now someone will ask why they
issued all these no-action letters taking all the teeth out of
the law,”  Jeffrey Harris , a Syracuse University finance
professor and former CFTC chief economist, said in a Dec. 4
telephone interview. “There needs to be some method and
mechanism to go back and revisit these once final rules are in
place.”  On the international scope of the rules,Gensler said the
agency is debating a phase-in of the regulations to be announced
before Jan. 1.  “We’re anticipating that a significant part of the
financial reforms will come into place as of Dec. 31 as dealers
begin to register and their transactions become known and
transparent to the regulators,” he said. “That’s true here in
the U.S. and for foreign dealers doing business here more than a
de minimis.”  The CFTC is working with overseas regulators on how to
reduce the potential for gaps in the rules, Gensler said.  Letters’ Impact  The agency was criticized by non-U.S. regulators after it
proposed guidance in June on the international scope of Dodd-
Frank rules intended to reduce risk in the  $639 trillion  global
swaps market. The guidance indicates when CFTC regulations apply
to foreign-based companies trading with U.S. clients and to
branches of U.S. companies trading overseas.  The reach of the rules has prompted opposition from
JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs,  Bank of America Corp.  and  Societe
Generale SA. (GLE)  Gensler said the cross-border guidance is needed to
protect U.S. taxpayers from having to rescue companies whose
overseas trades lead to their collapse.  Since mid-October, when new regulations for swap dealers
began taking effect, the letters and other guidance have
provided a series of changes for clearinghouses, funds and
banks. On Nov. 1, the CFTC granted a two-month delay for rules
governing segregation of collateral at Chicago-based  CME Group
Inc. (CME) , owner of the world’s largest futures exchange, and
Atlanta-based Intercontinental Exchange Inc.  Unanswered Questions  Between Oct. 26 and Nov. 29, the CFTC gave 10 banks,
including JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and  Barclays Plc. (BARC) , delays in
how quickly they must decide to accept or reject trades for
clearing. The letters weren’t immediately posted on the CFTC’s
website when they were released to banks. The rule was
originally supposed to take effect Oct. 1; the banks now have
until Jan. 1. Meanwhile, LCH received a delay on a related rule
and won’t need to meet CFTC requirements until March 31.  The CFTC has also used the letter process to resolve policy
questions that were unanswered in final regulations. In
February, when the agency completed rules requiring funds to
register by the end of the year, it said it could not determine
if the requirements had to be met by so-called family offices
that manage investments sometimes tied to commodities. The
agency said Feb. 24 that it needed to develop a “comprehensive
view” of family offices before granting an exemption.  Family Offices  On Nov. 29, the CFTC released a four-page letter exempting
the family offices after dozens of letters from law firms
including Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and the
Private Investor Coalition Inc., a lobbying group of family
offices. The coalition urged the exemption on behalf of 65 such
offices. Instead of a new analysis of the offices, the CFTC
relied on conclusions drawn by the SEC, which issued an
exemption.  “Placing both agencies on equal footing with respect to
the application of investor protections relevant to this issue
will facilitate compliance with both regulatory regimes,”  Gary
Barnett , the CFTC’s director of the division of swap dealer and
intermediary oversight, said in the no-action letter.  The agency’s reliance on guidance documents was also at the
center of a lawsuit filed and later withdrawn by CME against the
CFTC. The CME alleged Nov. 8 that rules on data-reporting for
cleared swaps would harm the company. The lawsuit cited a CFTC
document answering frequently asked questions that was released
subsequent to final rules.  Section Withdrawn  Last week, the CFTC withdrew the section of the document
that was referenced by CME in the lawsuit. And the agency sought
comment on CME’s proposed policy of having data on swaps at its
clearinghouse routed to its own swap-data repository.  Gensler told reporters Nov. 30 that the release on data-
questions was a “staff document and not a commission
document.”  The Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. faulted the agency
Nov. 29 for amending its policies after spending more than a
year writing rules for data reporting.  “The commission’s action late yesterday was an unexplained
and an abrupt reversal of course,” New York-based DTCC, which
operates a swap-database, said in a Nov. 29 statement asking the
CFTC to change its decision. “This action is inconsistent with
the commission’s previous actions, and will cause market
participants to question the finality of any commission rule or
interpretation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  