-- Cheryl Cole Jingles Bells; Pop Cabaret: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-12-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/cheryl-cole-jingles-bells-pop-cabaret-london-weekend.html
Will Young  sparkles in “Cabaret.”  The platinum-selling performer runs around in leather
shorts and sock suspenders in Rufus Norris’s revisiting of the
musical. “Mein Gott, she’s so hot!” he cheers at the sight of
his sidekick Sally Bowles (Michelle Ryan), who wears bondage-
style corsets. He then trundles on in a velvet fatsuit for a
rendition of “Money Makes the World Go Round.”  As Sally Bowles, Ryan is more Lily (Allen) than Liza
(Minnelli). Sian Phillips easily outsings her as the elderly
landlady. Ultimately, though, Young is the show’s selling point.  “Cabaret” ends Jan. 19 at the Savoy Theatre, Savoy Court
on the Strand, WC2R 0ET. Information:  http://www.atgtickets.com 
or +44-844-871-7615.  The River Restaurant at the Savoy is often overshadowed by
the hotel’s grill room, run by  Gordon Ramsay . The River is more
sedate, with fine Thames views, formal service and a menu that’s
classic, not old-fashioned. It isn’t as expensive as it looks.
The pre-theater menu is 24 pounds ($38.50) for two courses and
27.50 pounds for three. Information:  http://bit.ly/NwBT5i  or
+44-20-7836-4343.  Saturday  The sculptures parked on  Trafalgar Square ’s empty plinth
have all been brought under one roof -- in miniature form.  Artworks commissioned for the Fourth Plinth are on display
in a well-presented show at the nearby Institute of Contemporary
Arts. There’s Marc Quinn’s marble likeness of Alison Lapper, the
Yinka Shonibare bottled ship with batik sails, and the blue
rooster (“Hahn/Cock”) by Katharina Frisch that goes up next
year. There’s also the standout that never made it on: Jeremy Deller’s carcass of a car blown up in  Baghdad  after the 2003
 Iraq war .  An empty plinth symbolizes  Antony Gormley ’s “One &
Other,” in which he invited a different person to stand on the
plinth every hour for 100 days. You’ll see a selection of loopy
participants on a plasma screen, including a male nudist, who
flashes by pretty quickly.  “Fourth Plinth: Contemporary Monument” is at the
Institute of Contemporary Arts, The Mall, SW1Y 5AH through Jan.
20. Information:  http://www.ica.org.uk  or +44-20-7930-3647.  Zedel, a short walk away, is one of  London ’s most glamorous
restaurants, an offshoot of the fabled Wolseley. Prices are
surprisingly low. Most starters cost less than five pounds,
while the set menu is 8.75 pounds for two courses and 11.25
pounds for three. If you want a quiet drink, the Bar Americain
is extremely elegant. Classic cocktails are 9.75 pounds.
Information:  http://www.brasseriezedel.com/  or +44-20-7734-4888.  This is also the debut weekend of the Trafalgar Square
Christmas tree, that towering yearly gift from  Norway  to thank
Britain for hosting the Norwegian government-in-exile during
World War II. See it lit at night. Information:
 http://www.london.gov.uk .  Saturday Night  Bruno Mars, Cheryl Cole, JLS, the Script and Rizzle Kicks
start the Christmas party on Saturday. Calvin Harris, Girls
Aloud and Pink keep it going Sunday. This collection of pop
stars will congregate at the O2 for the annual Jingle Bell Ball.  Those unable to get to the O2 can tune in to Capital FM,
which is organizing the show. (Bloomberg critic  Robert Heller 
will be there to report on the highlights and lowlights, and
party with the teen bands so you don’t have to.)  The O2, Peninsula Square, SE10 0DX. Information: +44-20-
8463-2000 or  http://www.capitalfm.com/jingle-bell-ball ,
 http://www.theo2.co.uk .  Sunday  Looking for a fancy turban, an ethical T-shirt, or a subtle
seascape to give a loved one? Try the Angel Christmas Fair.  Held just off the main drag in fashionable Islington, the
event offers affordable, cutting-edge art and design, and
everything is handmade. It’s run by the Candid Arts Trust, whose
mission is to promote graduate artists and designers.  A highlight of this year’s fair: jewelry -- made of
precious metals, or of unwanted trinkets passed down over many
generations.  The Angel Christmas Fair is free, and runs all weekend
(starting Friday night). It’s at 3 Torrens Street, EC1V 1NQ.
Information:  http://www.candidarts.net .  Star soprano Renee Fleming rounds off the weekend with a
recital of music by Mahler and Schoenberg.  Barbican Centre, Silk Street, EC2Y 8BS. Information: +44-
7638-8891,  http://www.barbican.org.uk .  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on tech.  To contact the writers on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 