-- China Mobile Says Apple Must Discuss IPhone Benefit Sharing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-06T11:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/china-mobile-says-apple-must-discuss-benefit-sharing-on-iphone.html
China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s
largest mobile-phone company by users, said  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  must
further discuss with the carrier details about benefit sharing
before a deal can be reached on offering the handset.  Technical issues related to the carrier’s homegrown third-
generation network standard aren’t the only obstacles to
reaching an iPhone deal with Apple,  China  Mobile Chief Executive
Officer Li Yue told a developer conference in Guangzhou,
according to a transcript from the company today. Apple
spokeswoman Carolyn Wu declined to comment on Li’s remarks.  “Besides the technical issues, the business model and
benefit sharing still need further discussion,” Li told the
gathering in Guangzhou yesterday.  The iPhone isn’t available to most users in China as the
Cupertino, California-based company has yet to reach an
agreement with China Mobile, while its two smaller rivals both
offer the handset.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  will sell a version of its flagship
smartphone for the nation’s largest wireless carrier by the end
of this month, the companies said yesterday.  China Mobile had 703 million subscribers at the end of
October, including 79.3 million users of high-speed, third-
generation services that give smartphones faster Internet
access. Apple’s iPhone is available with the nation’s two
smaller carriers:  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (762)  and  China
Telecom Corp. (728) , both of which sell it with a subsidy. The new
iPhone 5 will begin sales with those carriers next week.  ‘Pound of Flesh’  “Li’s comment suggests that China Mobile has no intention
of simply gifting Apple access to its huge subscriber base
without extracting a pound of flesh from Apple,” said Teck-
Zhung Wong, a Singapore-based analyst with market researcher
IDC.  China Mobile  shares  fell 1 percent to close at HK$88.85 in
Hong Kong trading today. Apple yesterday  fell  6.4 percent, the
biggest drop since December 2008, to $538.79 at the close in New
York. The decline erased $34.9 billion from Apple’s market
value, the steepest loss since at least 1988, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  China contributed  revenue  of $23.8 billion in Apple’s
fiscal year ended in September, accounting for 15 percent of the
total and up 78 percent from the previous year, Chief Executive
Officer  Tim Cook  said last month on a conference call.  Li’s remarks suggest winning China Mobile as a customer
could put pressure on Apple’s margins, said David Wolf, CEO of
 Wolf Group Asia , a Beijing-based marketing consulting firm  “Apple has been very open about how much profit it is
taking from China, and that was bound to get somebody here
thinking ‘Hey, we want some of that: after all, without us,
they’re dead,’” Wolf said. “The company could find itself
forced to choose between its margins and its access to the
Chinese market. Apple now needs to play a deft game.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  