-- China Swaps Halt Three-Day Decline on Economic Recovery Optimism
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-12-06T02:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/china-swaps-halt-three-day-decline-on-economic-recovery-optimism.html
China ’s  interest-rate swaps  halted a
three-day slide on optimism that government measures to spur
spending are quickening a recovery in the world’s second-largest
economy.  Initiatives announced since May are “effective” and
“ample” in stabilizing growth, according to an unsigned front-
page commentary in Financial News, a newspaper controlled by the
central bank. Expansion slowed in each of the last seven
quarters and the government accelerated approvals of
infrastructure projects to spur spending at home as  Europe ’s
debt crisis hurts exports. China’s central economic work
meeting, at which officials may set the 2013 growth goal, could
be held this month, China Business New reported Nov. 26.  “For now, the sentiment is very positive for the
recovery,” said Wee-khoon Chong, a Hong Kong-based strategist
at Societe Generale SA. “The economic meeting scheduled this
month is likely to be the main theme for a few weeks.”  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost to receive
the seven-day repo rate, was 3.355 percent at 10:37 a.m. in
Shanghai, little changed from 3.35 percent yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Exports may grow by 8 to 10 percent next year,  Ba Shusong ,
who works for the State Council’s development research center,
was quoted as saying in the Economic Information Daily today.
The Shanghai Composite Index of shares was 0.2 percent lower
today following a 2.9 percent jump yesterday.  The People’s Bank of China auctioned 45 billion  yuan  ($7.2
billion) of seven-day reverse-repurchase agreements at a yield
of 3.35 percent today, according to a trader at a primary dealer
required to bid at the auctions. The central bank also conducted
72 billion yuan of 28-day reverse repos at 3.6 percent, the
trader said.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , a gauge of interbank funding
availability, increased eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage
point, to 2.88 percent in  Shanghai , according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  