-- Christie Meets With Obama as Sandy Aid Package Formed
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-12-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/christie-said-to-meet-obama-as-sandy-aid-package-considered.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
met with PresidentBarack Obama and members of Congress as the
administration considers financial assistance for  Hurricane
Sandy  cleanup.  Christie, a Republican who says the storm will cost his
state about $36.9 billion, also met with White House Chief of
Staff Jack Lew and Jeffrey Zients, acting director of the Office
of Management and Budget, as well as other Obama aides, press
secretary  Jay Carney  said yesterday.  Sandy hit on Oct. 29, killing more than 100 people,
flooding New York City subways and ravaging beach towns from New
Jersey’s Atlantic City to Bridgeport, Connecticut. Elected
officials from the region have been pressing officials in
Washington for funding to cover repairs.  “There is a difference of view as to what we need and what
we can get,” New Jersey Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a Democrat,
told reporters yesterday after meeting with Christie.  Also yesterday, New York City officials said they’re
considering how to better prepare for storms, and how to pay for
housing those displaced by Sandy. A New Jersey transportation
official went to Washington to tell lawmakers about Sandy’s
damage to the state’s commuter system.  Boehner Meeting  Christie, 50, met with House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, said  Michael Steel , a spokesman for Boehner. The
governor also talked with Senator  Robert Menendez , another New
Jersey Democrat.  Efforts to secure aid for the states hit by Sandy may be
complicated by the U.S. government’s own fiscal strains. Obama
and congressional Republicans are attempting to negotiate a deal
to stop more than $600 billion in automatic tax increases and
spending cuts from taking effect starting in January. Those
talks are focused on steps to shrink the  federal budget   deficit ,
which is projected at about $1.1 trillion this year.  Menendez said that while some Republicans may seek spending
cuts elsewhere to pay for the aid, he said he anticipated that
most of the party’s lawmakers would not.  “We expect our colleagues to be with us,” he told
reporters.  Obama may send Congress a request for aid to the states
most affected by Sandy by the end of the week, Carney said.  Obama probably will seek as much as $60 billion to help
states, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
said this week.  Christie, New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  and Connecticut
Governor Dannel Malloy, both Democrats, have been pushing
lawmakers for almost $83 billion to rebuild the battered region.  Transit Costs  James Weinstein, executive director of New Jersey Transit,
told a Senate panel that the second-largest U.S. public
transportation system suffered $400 million in Sandy damage and
needs twice that amount to prevent harm from future storms. The
losses included rail cars, locomotives and equipment.  Meanwhile, in New York, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said the
most populous U.S. city will review how to better prepare for
and recover from storms such as Sandy. The mayor, an independent
who is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP, shunned calls to invest in costly sea walls.  The city is examining whether to shift evacuation zones,
update building codes and add levees and jetties to deflect
storm surges. Sandy shut down parts of all five of the city’s
boroughs, halted mass transit and blacked out neighborhoods.  New York City Comptroller  John Liu , a Democrat, said he
wants to let public pensions invest millions of dollars to
finance or purchase housing for people displaced by Sandy.  Liu said he intends to submit the proposal to board members
of the city’s five retirement systems, which held assets valued
at $128 billion on Sept. 30. If they accept the plan, the
specifics would be announced in the next few weeks, he said. The
comptroller serves as custodian and investment adviser to the
funds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 