-- Chrisite Goes to Washington to Make Plea for Sandy Aid
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-12-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/chrisite-goes-to-washington-to-make-plea-for-sandy-aid.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
plans to press for federal aid to help the state recover from
superstorm Sandy in a trip to Washington today, his office said.  Kevin Roberts , a spokesman for Christie, declined to say
yesterday whether the 50-year-old Republican will meet with
President Barack Obama or other officials.  “He will be conveying the concerns and needs of New Jersey
to Congress and the federal government,” Roberts said.  Christie’s trip comes three days after New York Governor
 Andrew Cuomo  traveled to Washington to ask for $42 billion in
aid. Sandy ripped through three states Oct. 29, killing more
than 90 people, flooding New York City’s subway system and
ravaging beach towns from Atlantic City,  New Jersey , to
Bridgeport, Connecticut.  Christie, who has said his state will spend $36.9 billion
on rebuilding, has joined with Cuomo and Connecticut’s Dannel Malloy, both Democrats, in seeking a combined $83 billion in
aid.  U.S. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Democrat from
Nevada, said yesterday that Obama may submit a request as soon
as today seeking about $60 billion for recovery.  Efforts to secure aid for the storm-ravaged states could be
complicated by the federal government’s own fiscal strains, as
Obama and Republicans negotiate over a deal to stop more than
$600 billion in automatic tax increases and spending cuts from
taking effect next month.  In 2011, after Hurricane Irene struck, the government was
pushed close to a shutdown after House Republicans, including
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , pressed to have some $3 billion in
disaster aid paid for with cuts to other parts of the budget, a
stance that Christie publicly criticized.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at  smerelman@bloomberg.net  