-- Citigroup Consumer Marketing Chief Peluso Takes CEO Job at Gilt
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-12-07T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/citigroup-consumer-marketing-chief-peluso-joins-gilt-as-ceo-1-.html
Michelle Peluso left her post as
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s global consumer chief marketing and Internet
officer to run Gilt Groupe Inc., an online shopping site, with
an eye toward taking the company public.  Peluso was named chief executive officer of Gilt, replacing
 Kevin Ryan , a founder, who led the search. She has been on the
New York-based online retailer’s board since October 2009, Gilt
said yesterday in a statement. Peluso joined Citigroup in 2009
after serving as CEO of Sabre Holdings Corp.’s online
reservations unit, Travelocity, since 2003, Gilt said.  “It’s hard to find the right person who can understand the
startup mentality yet still manage a 1,000-person company,”
Ryan said in an interview. “She’s done a startup in the past,
she’s worked at a large company, and that list is literally like
five people.”  Peluso is likely to lead Gilt in an initial public offering
as early as next year, said Ryan, who is remaining as chairman.
Gilt, valued at $1 billion in a funding round last year, began
with a focus on luxury-good sales that usually last about 36
hours. The company has expanded into regular-priced items and
markets such as food and travel, moves that risked brand
dilution.  Peluso, who helped modernize airline reservations at
Travelocity, has tried to make Citigroup’s banking technology
more consumer-friendly. Citigroup hired her as a consultant in
2009 to oversee strategy sessions aimed at turning the New York-
based lender into a “Bank of the Future,” people familiar with
the matter said at the time.  Image Repair  She later became full-time marketing officer at Citigroup’s
 consumer-banking  unit as the lender sought to repair its image
after almost collapsing during the financial crisis and taking a
$45 billion bailout. She reported directly to the division’s
global head, Manuel Medina-Mora.  “Michelle has made a significant impact to our ongoing
efforts to become a best-in-class client-centric global consumer
banking franchise,” said  Sean Kevelighan , a Citigroup
spokesman. “She has worked tirelessly to help advance and
enhance our clients’ banking experience. We wish her much
continued success as she enters this next phase.”  He declined to comment on a replacement.  Citigroup announced plans two days ago to cut more than
11,000 jobs, including about 6,200 in global consumer banking.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  