-- Cliff Isn’t the Problem: Bloomberg Businessweek Opening Remarks
-- B y   P e t e r   C o y
-- 2012-12-06T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/cliff-isn-t-the-problem-bloomberg-businessweek-opening-remarks.html
Early in Bill Bryson’s book “A Walk
in the Woods,” the story of his ill-starred Appalachian Trail
expedition, the author’s out-of-shape and impulsive hiking
companion, Katz, decides his backpack is too heavy. So he starts
throwing out the food they’d packed for the trip: rice,
pepperoni, cheese, peanuts, Spam -- he even discards coffee
filters, which weigh next to nothing.  Panic about the so-called fiscal cliff is threatening to
lead Congress into the same short-term thinking. Investments in
education, scientific research, and infrastructure -- which
account for a tiny portion of federal spending yet make the
economy more productive in the long run -- are at risk.  Restraining them by spending cap or sequester would be as
dumb as discarding coffee filters to lighten one’s backpack.
Still, if Democrats and Republicans don’t agree on a budget
compromise by the end of the year, that’s what could happen.  A new Bloomberg Government analysis makes clear just how
much pressure  Washington  is under. Instead of needing
$4 trillion in deficit cuts over 10 years to stabilize the ratio
of debt to gross domestic product, negotiators need $5.9
trillion in cuts, according to Bloomberg Government’s
calculations.  Medicare Deficits  In a Dec. 4 interview with Bloomberg Television, President
 Barack Obama  said he’ll fight to protect investments in things
like education. He’s right. House Speaker John Boehner says the
U.S. needs to grapple with big projected deficits in Medicare,
Medicaid, and Social Security. He’s right, too.  Their two rights have made a wrong: stalemate.  The solution is to figure out what problems need solving on
which time scale. The most urgent priority is keeping the
roughly $600 billion hit to gross domestic product from kicking
in.  Edward Kleinbard, a professor at the University of Southern
California’s Gould School of Law, who was chief of staff for the
Joint Committee on Taxation from 2007 to 2009, proposes turning
the cliff into a ramp.  He would suspend the automatic spending cuts and allow the
Bush tax cuts to expire in three years instead of overnight.
Congress would commit to devote all of the savings from future
spending cuts to lowering tax rates, starting with the lowest
brackets, not the highest.  Says Kleinbard: “None of this is impossible.”  Bigger Challenge  After that comes a bigger challenge: getting the economy to
grow faster and foster innovation to make burdens on future
generations as light as possible.  Supporting the aged and infirm will be far easier if median
household income rises to, say, $75,000 adjusted for inflation,
rather than remaining stuck at just over $50,000. And Medicare
and Medicaid expenses will be less daunting if medicine can find
cures for killers such as diabetes and dementia.  That’s why it’s foolish to slash public programs
indiscriminately to get out of the fiscal hole. It’s up to
government to fund growth-enhancing investments that the private
sector does too little of.  James Heckman, a Nobel prize-winning economist at the
University of Chicago, has shown that the return on a dollar
invested in human capital is highest from birth to age five,
lower during the school years, and lowest for adult job
training. Yet the budget for Head Start, which helps children
from low-income families aged five and younger to get ready for
school, is paltry relative to the benefits bestowed on older
Americans.  Underfunded Infrastructure  Physical capital is underfunded as well. In 2009 the
American Society of Civil Engineers gave the U.S. a grade of D
for infrastructure. It’s doubtful that things are much better
now; only about $100 billion of the Obama administration’s
almost $800 billion stimulus program went toward roads, bridges,
and other needs.  Infrastructure investment would make the U.S. more
competitive in the long run while creating jobs in the short
run, and because the U.S. can borrow for next to nothing, the
financing would be cheap. Yet Boehner is opposing Obama’s debt
proposal -- which includes $50 billion in infrastructure
spending -- because it doesn’t cut spending enough. That’s
unfortunate.  Military Spending  Where could the U.S. cut that wouldn’t damage its growth
potential? The obvious targets are defense and entitlements,
which together account for almost three-quarters of federal
spending outside of interest payments.  The U.S. spends more on its military than the next 13
countries combined; that would suggest potential for some nips
and tucks. Social Security’s imbalance could be fixed by raising
the ceiling for wages subject to the payroll tax.  The knottier problems are Medicare and Medicaid, whose
costs have been driven up by extraordinarily inefficient health-
care spending. The U.S. spends 53 percent more on health care
per capita than No. 2  Norway  while getting worse results.
Norwegians’ life expectancy at birth is a year and a half
longer.  Making benefits less generous is the no-brainer way to
close the gap. The forward-thinking way is to conquer diseases
that sap America’s human and economic potential, as Jonas Salk’s
vaccine did for polio in the 1950s.  Researching Cures  Medicare and Medicaid alone spend $140 billion a year on
dementia care, the nonprofit  Alzheimer’s Association  estimates,
yet the U.S. spends only about half a billion dollars a year
researching cures.  George Vradenburg, chairman of the advocacy group
 USAgainstAlzheimer ’s, argues that the disease could be mostly
eliminated by 2020 with Manhattan Project-size funding; cuts to
research could make the problem worse.  “This disease could very well become the financial and
social sinkhole of the 21st century,” says gerontologist Ken Dychtwald, chief executive officer of the consulting firm  Age
Wave .  Taxes, too, need to be reformed to amplify growth.
Loopholes are a good place to start. The home-mortgage interest
deduction could be phased out over a long period, because all it
does is encourage people to buy bigger houses and take on more
debt.  Savings incentives in the tax code mostly benefit the rich
without actually increasing the rate of savings. Still, zeroing
out all tax breaks would be a mistake. Some, like the one for
research and development, enhance growth.  Tipping Point  There is, of course, a point at which high tax rates slow
the economy. Conservatives argue for holding down rates on
capital gains and dividends while preserving all of the Bush
high-end cuts on ordinary income. Yet the U.S. appears to be
well shy of the tipping point at which raising  taxes  would be
counterproductive. The economy grew faster in the 1950s when the
highest rate was 91 percent.  What’s limiting business investment and hiring today isn’t
the prospect of slightly higher tax rates; it’s the fear that
there won’t be enough customers. Weak, uncertain demand is the
lasting legacy of the Great Recession and the slow rebound
since.  In  manufacturing , mining, and utilities, depreciation has
outpaced fresh investment since the start of the recession in
December 2007, leaving the sector with a decline in productive
capacity, according to Federal Reserve data. Recessions have
lasting consequences: Eroding capacity, they limit the economy’s
ability to grow -- and generate tax revenue -- in the future.  Long-Term Crisis  Refocusing the budget debate on the future is something
that both conservatives and liberals should support.
Representative Jim Cooper of  Tennessee , a fiscally conservative
Democrat, worries that Congress isn’t taking the long-term
entitlements crisis seriously.  He says the government should copy the private sector by
adopting accrual accounting instead of just measuring each
year’s cash in and cash out.  Accrual accounting would acknowledge how much the country
owes future retirees. It would also differentiate investments in
roads, bridges, and Head Start from day-to-day spending on paper
clips and electricity.  “The government is the last major entity left in America
that doesn’t use accrual accounting,” says Cooper. “The business
mantra is, if you can’t measure it, you can’t manage it.”  Without that kind of discipline, he says, “Congress has
very poor eyesight and won’t necessarily cut in the right
place.”  Or, to put it in terms Katz might understand: When you
still have 2,000 miles to hike, don’t throw away all of your
pepperoni.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Coy in  New York  at 
 pcoy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romesh Ratnesar at 
 rratnesar@bloomberg.net  