-- Clinton, Lavrov to Meet UN Special Envoy for Syria Today
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-12-06T17:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/clinton-lavrov-to-meet-un-special-envoy-for-syria-today.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
and Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  will meet United
Nations Special Envoy Lakhdar Brahimi today in Dublin to discuss
options for ending the Syrian conflict, said a State Department
official who spoke on condition of anonymity.  While Clinton and Lavrov have discussed Syria several times
in recent months, Brahimi’s involvement suggests today’s meeting
may offer an opportunity for a breakthrough. Clinton and Lavrov,
both in Dublin for a gathering of the Organization of Security
and Cooperation in  Europe , will meet with the UN envoy later
today. Clinton met with Brahimi in  Washington  on Nov. 30.  The U.S. and  Russia  have been at an impasse over what kind
of pressure to exert to end the fighting between Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad’s government and rebels. More than
41,000 people have died since the uprising began in March 2011,
according to the Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights .  The U.S. has pushed for a resolution that would impose
consequences, such as economic sanctions, for a failure to end
the conflict and begin a planned transition to a unity
government. Russia, an ally of Syria, has blocked UN sanctions
and thwarted efforts to put pressure on Assad to stop the
fighting and to prevent him and his inner circle from being part
of any transitional government.  Geneva Accord  UN Security Council members and Arab states on June 30
backed a plan for a Syrian transition government that, under
pressure from Russia and  China , didn’t directly address Assad’s
fate. The document, signed in Geneva, also added a Russia-backed
provision opposing “further militarization of the conflict,” a
criticism of Arab nations’ arms shipments to the opposition.  Russia, along with China, has vetoed three  Security Council 
resolutions intended to pressure Assad’s government to halt the
violence.  International efforts to mediate a peace agreement have
stumbled over whether Assad must leave power before a transition
can begin. The June communique from foreign ministers in Geneva
declared a “firm timetable” for actions without setting any
dates or deadlines.  Brahimi told the Security Council last week that Syria will
become a “failed state” without a political solution to the
crisis. A peace plan based on the Geneva agreement can succeed,
he said.  Building Blocks  “The building blocks for a political process to end the
crisis in Syria already exist” in the roadmap outlined by the
Action Group for Syria in Geneva, Brahimi said on Nov. 30.  Lavrov told Clinton in September at the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation Summit in Vladivostok that Russia still
sees the Geneva plan as the best chance for a peace deal that’s
not imposed on the Syrian people by outside powers. The U.S.
says the proposal is meaningless without penalties attached if
the parties don’t comply.  The Geneva accord won’t work “if it doesn’t have teeth,”
Clinton said on Sept. 9.  Yesterday, Clinton said a Syrian opposition coalition is
moving closer to winning U.S. support. The National Coalition
for Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces, the group trying
to raise $60 billion for reconstruction if and when Assad is
deposed, will attend a Dec. 12 meeting of the Friends of Syria
in Marrakesh,  Morocco . The coalition already has won recognition
from the European Union and Gulf Arab countries.  Aiding Opposition  “Now that there is a new opposition formed, we are going
to be doing what we can to support that opposition,” Clinton
told reporters in Brussels yesterday. At next week’s meeting
“we will explore with like-minded countries what we can do to
try to bring this conflict to an end.”  At the same time, the State Department is moving to
designate one rebel group a foreign terrorist organization this
month because of evidence it has ties to al-Qaeda. Members of
the group, Jabhat al-Nusra, or the Support Front, have
participated in some recent successful attacks on forces, said
two U.S. officials who described the move on the condition of
anonymity because it hasn’t happened yet.  The expected designation, reported Dec. 4 by McClatchy
Newspapers, will freeze any assets group members have in the
U.S. and bar Americans from providing material support to it.
The officials said that while the blacklisting may hamper some
rebel operations and underline the split between secular and
Muslim extremist rebel factions, it’s necessary to prevent aid
from going to allies of al-Qaeda.  Foreign ministers attending a two-day meeting of the 28-
member NATO alliance on Dec. 4 approved the deployment of a
missile shield along  Turkey ’s 900-kilometer (560-mile) border
with  Syria . Satellite images have shown Syria may be readying
chemical-weapons stockpiles for deployment.  Clinton told journalists today in Dublin that the U.S. has
“made it very clear what our position is with regard to
chemical weapons. And I think we will discuss that and many
other aspects of what needs to be done in order to end the
violence and begin that transition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Dublin at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  