-- Cnooc-Petronas Record Bids Test Canada’s Taste for Asian Deals
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2012-12-06T22:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/cnooc-petronas-record-bids-test-canada-s-taste-for-asian-deals.html
The fate of two of the biggest energy
takeovers by Asian companies this year could be decided early
next week, when Canada’s government may rule on bids by  Cnooc
Ltd. (883)  and Petroliam Nasional Bhd.  Cnooc’s $15.1 billion takeover of  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  and the C$5.2
billion ($5.2 billion) offer for  Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ) 
by Petronas, as  Malaysia ’s state-owned energy company is known,
will drive up investments by Asian companies in North American
energy assets to a record $32.5 billion. That’s 18 times higher
than acquisitions announced in 2007.  The deals must show a “net benefit” to Canada, holder of
the world’s third-largest oil reserves. Its rejection of BHP
Billiton Ltd.’s bid for the nation’s biggest potash producer and
an adverse ruling on Petronas’s offer in October led investors
to mark down the chances of them succeeding. Blocking Cnooc may
draw retaliation from  China .  “Everybody understands Canada needs Asia’s money and
markets in the long run,” said Laban Yu, an analyst at
Jefferies Hong Kong Ltd. “Canada may see zero investment from
China in the next five years if they deny Cnooc’s acquisition of
Nexen. Rejecting both would send a chilling message to Asia’s
state-owned oil producers that they are not welcome in the
country at all.”  Trading Discount  Nexen is trading at an 8.5 percent discount to Cnooc’s bid
price of $27.50 a share. Progress Energy is 8 percent less.
Progress Energy had plunged 15 percent in the week after Canada
ruled against the Petronas bid on Oct. 19 before recovering as
the Malaysian company offered further concessions.  “Because they don’t like the Chinese buying some of their
companies they had to take it out on us as well,” former
Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, who is an adviser to
Petronas, said in a Dec. 5 interview. “If we lose, there are
other places. Petronas is very much in demand.”  Asian companies are seeking assets in North America after
the continent last year reported the world’s biggest increase in
oil and gas production after the Middle East. A surge in gas
produced by cracking open shale rocks in the U.S. made it the
world’s biggest producer of the fuel in 2009.  Canada  requires
almost C$650 billion of investments over the next decade to
develop its biggest resource projects.  The U.S. will become a net exporter of liquefied natural
gas starting in 2016 and will be a net shipper of natural gas by
2020, beating last year’s forecast by two years, the U.S. Energy
Department said in an early release of its Annual Energy Outlook
2013 report on Dec. 5. The increasing production of oil, gas and
renewable fuels will reduce the share of net imports in total
U.S. energy consumption to 9 percent by 2040 from 19 percent in
2011, the department said.  Alternative Market  The takeover of Progress Energy will help Canada develop
gas resources and find an alternative market, Petronas has said.
Acquiring the Calgary-based explorer would give Petronas
ownership of the second-largest holder in the Montney shale-gas
area of British Columbia and full control of the three Progress
Energy fields in which Petronas bought a stake last year.  “It’s quite a huge investment,” Petronas Chief Executive
Officer Shamsul Azhar Abbas, said Nov. 29 in Kuala Lumpur.
“We’re basically helping the country to find an alternative
outlet. They’re counting on one market, the U.S.”  Progress Energy got all of its  revenue  from Canada in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Proven, Probable  Last year, 29 percent of Nexen’s daily oil and gas
production of 207,000 barrels of oil equivalent was in Canada,
according to the company’s  annual report . The U.K. accounted for
43 percent of the company’s output. Nexen had 77 percent of its
net proven and probable reserves in Canada at the end of 2011,
according to the report.  With the majority of Nexen’s production located outside
Canada, Cnooc may have a better chance of winning approval for
its bid,  Neil Beveridge  and Ying Lou, Hong Kong-based analysts
at Sanford C. Bernstein, in an Oct. 22 report.  An approval would give China assets needed to feed the
world’s fastest-growing economy. China’s state-run companies,
backed by the world’s biggest foreign-exchange reserves of $3.3
trillion and cheap loans by banks, have snapped up oil, gas and
mineral assets from  Australia  to  Africa  and Latin America.  Canadians Uneasy  Many Canadians are uneasy about deals such as Cnooc’s,
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper said. Fifty-eight percent
of Canadians believe the Nexen bid should be blocked, an online
Angus Reid Public Opinion survey of 1,000 people conducted from
Oct. 10 to Oct. 11 showed. The New Democratic Party, Harper’s
main rival in Parliament, has opposed the bid.  Scrutiny of foreign takeovers has stymied deals in North
America before. Cnooc was forced in 2005 to abandon a $19
billion hostile bid for El Segundo, California-based Unocal as
U.S. lawmakers proposed legislation to block it.  Canada rebuffed Melbourne-based  BHP (BHP) ’s $40 billion hostile
takeover bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. in 2010, the
second rejection in 25 years following its blocking of  Alliant
Techsystems Inc. (ATK) ’s bid for  MacDonald Dettwiler & Associates
Ltd. (MDA) ’s space business in 2008.  Still, Canada needs “hundreds of billions of dollars of
capital” to unlock the potential of its oil sands, Pacific
Coast liquefied natural gas export facilities and emerging shale
developments, according to Eric Nuttall, a portfolio manager who
oversees $110 million at Sprott Asset Management Inc. in
Toronto.  “It’s clear that internally, domestic capital cannot fund
such projects in a timely manner, thus as a country we’re forced
to look externally at funding,” Nuttall said. Rejection of the
two bids “would be hugely destructive to the value of many
Canadian companies,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  