-- Colombian Bonds Rally After Surprise Consumer-Prices Drop
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-12-06T20:19:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/colombia-yields-fall-on-surprise-consumer-price-drop-peso-gains.html
Colombian peso bonds rose, pushing
yields down the most in seven weeks, as speculation mounted that
policy makers will further reduce the target lending rate after
consumer prices unexpectedly dropped in November.  The yield on the government’s 10 percent bonds due in July
2024 fell 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to a record
low 5.83 percent at the close in Bogota, according to the
central bank. The slide was the steepest since Oct. 19. The peso
rose 0.7 percent to 1,799.70 per dollar.  Consumer prices fell 0.14 percent in November from a month
earlier, the biggest monthly decrease in two years. The median
forecast of 29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 0.15
percent increase. The decline means policy makers may further
reduce the target lending rate after they unexpectedly cut it
last month for the third time since July, said Daniel Escobar,
the head analyst at Global Securities brokerage in Bogota.  “There was a big surprise in inflation,” Escobar said in
a phone interview. “Before this, the market was expecting them
to hold for several more months.”  The surprise decline shows the central bank was right to
cut  interest rates  in November, Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said in an interview last night. Inflation will
probably end 2012 lower than policy makers had forecast and
below the 3 percent midpoint of the target range, Cardenas said.  Annual inflation slowed to 2.77 percent, the lowest since
2010, on cheaper food and transport costs. Cardenas said the
drop showed that the El Nino weather phenomenon didn’t cause the
gain in food prices that some economists had forecast.  The central bank cut its target lending rate by a quarter-
percentage point to 4.5 percent at its November meeting after
the nation’s biggest brokerage collapsed and industrial output
contracted for a second month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  