-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Holds Near Highest Since April
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-12-06T22:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-holds-near-highest-since-april.html
Consumer confidence  held close to a
seven-month high last week as the holiday-shopping season put
more Americans in the mood to spend, and claims for  unemployment
benefits  declined.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index eased to minus 33.8 in
the period ended Dec. 2 from minus 33. The reading, within the
margin of error of 3 percentage points, was the 11th straight
above minus 40, a point associated with recessions and their
aftermath. Jobless  claims  decreased by 25,000 to 370,000 in the
week ended Dec. 1, the Labor Department said.  Holiday shoppers are taking advantage of discounting,
expanded store hours and Internet deals, explaining why a gauge
of the buying climate climbed to a five-year high. While
confidence is getting a lift from cheaper gasoline and an
improving job market, failure by lawmakers to prevent automatic
tax increases threatens to throttle the household spending that
accounts for 70 percent of the economy.  “I don’t expect that consumers will hold back during the
holidays,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays Plc
in New York. “I think the bigger risk is that as we move into
the first quarter, if there’s not a resolution on the fiscal
cliff,” Americans would cut back as their after-tax incomes
decline, he said.  The drop in claims was the third straight. The mid-Atlantic
region, which employs about 14 percent of U.S. workers, is
recovering after Sandy. Apart from the storm-related damage --
which may also be reflected in the November payrolls report
tomorrow -- employers will probably curb hiring until the risks
from the global slowdown and looming fiscal tightening
dissipate.  Household Worth  A recovery in third-quarter household worth, boosted by
higher stock values and  home prices , may also make Americans
more inclined to spend.  Net worth  for households and non-profit
groups increased by $1.72 trillion from July through September,
or 2.7 percent from the previous three months, to $64.8
trillion, the  Federal Reserve  said today from  Washington  in its
flow of funds report.  Stocks rose for a second day as Apple Inc. rebounded and
investors weighed prospects for a budget deal. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.3 percent to 1,413.94 at the close in
New York.  In a sign of resilience in parts of  Europe , German factory
orders jumped 3.9 percent in October, the most since January
2011, on gains in overseas demand.  The Bloomberg comfort index’s buying climate gauge improved
to minus 33.4, the strongest since November 2007, from minus
35.4 the previous week. The personal finances index dropped to
minus 6.6 from minus 4.4 the prior week.  Economy View  The barometer measuring Americans’ views on the  state of
the economy  fell to minus 61.5 from minus 59.2 the prior period.
Even so, the share of consumers giving the economy the worst
rating of “poor,” fell to 34 percent, the fewest in almost
five years.  “Overall, consumer confidence is up but it remains
fragile,”  David Dillon , chairman and chief executive officer of
 Kroger Co. (KR) , the Cincinnati-based grocery chain, said on a Nov.
29 earnings call. “Uncertainty around issues like the fiscal
cliff can have a short-term impact on consumer sentiment.”  The comfort index last week was 16.5 points better than it
was during this period last year. The gauge in 2012 has averaged
minus 38.6 and is on track for its best annual showing in five
years.  Holiday Sales  Further advances in confidence may bolster purchases.
During the four-day Thanksgiving weekend,  spending  in stores and
online rose 13 percent to $59.1 billion, according to the
 National Retail Federation . Last year, sales climbed 16 percent
during the holiday weekend.  Online holiday sales climbed 14 percent from Nov. 1 through
Dec. 2 from the same period last year, according to  comScore .
The gain was propelled by Cyber Monday, which was the biggest
online shopping day on record.  “Consumer confidence is soldiering on,” said  Gary Langer ,
president of Langer Research Associates in New York, which
compiles the index for Bloomberg. Stagnant income advances and
weak production are headwinds, while “other indicators --
joblessness, the housing market and GDP among them -- have
improved along with consumer sentiment.”  A recovery in residential real estate is one reason
consumers are more bullish. The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of home
prices in 20 cities showed property values rose in the year
ended in September by the most since July 2010, according to a
Nov. 27 report. Sales of previously owned properties rose in
October, according to the National Association of Realtors.  Job Gains  The economy is also still adding jobs. Employers boosted
payrolls by 171,000 jobs in October, exceeding the 157,000
average this year, according to data from the Labor Department.
November figures are scheduled for release tomorrow.  Cheaper  pump prices  are helping as well. The average price
of a gallon of gasoline was $3.38 yesterday, down from an
October high of $3.82, according to data from AAA, the largest
U.S. motoring organization.  Today’s report is in line with other sentiment measures.
The Conference Board’s confidence  index  increased to 73.7 in
November, a four-year high, from 73.1 the prior month.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, compiled by Langer
Research Associates in  New York , conducts telephone surveys with
a random sample of 1,000 consumers 18 and older. Each week, 250
respondents are asked for their views on the economy, personal
finances and buying climate; the percentage of negative
responses is subtracted from the share of positive views and
divided by three. The most recent reading is based on the
average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  