-- Credit Suisse Leaves Krone With Nowhere to Hide: Nordic Credit
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-12-06T14:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/credit-suisse-leaves-krone-with-nowhere-to-hide-nordic-credit.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s decision to
charge depositors on their Swiss franc accounts has had
reverberations further north.  Since Switzerland’s second-biggest bank said on Dec. 3 that
it informed financial institutional clients it will start
imposing negative interest rates on cash balances held in Swiss
francs, investors have sought out other haven currencies where
returns are still positive. Their preferred target has been the
currency of Norway, which like Switzerland, is outside the
European Union.  Norway’s  import-weighted krone index  reached 85.12 today,
its highest since at least 1999, and has appreciated 3.7 percent
in the past six months. The krone’s strength, as measured by the
index, exceeds a September 2011 peak triggered by the  Swiss
National Bank (SNBN) ’s decision to cap franc gains versus the euro.
Back then, Norway’s central bank responded with successive rate
cuts to counter a capital influx.  “So far, the negative rates only apply to a small universe
of clients, but the line has been crossed,”  Daragh Maher , a
currency strategist at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , said in an interview
from  London . “The Swiss franc will remain under downward
pressure. The flipside to this is that the Norwegian krone will
offer a safe haven role, but retain positive rates.”  Policy Dilemma  That’s adding to a dilemma for policy makers at Norway’s
central bank, who have signaled the economy now needs higher
rates to stem a housing bubble and prevent the labor market from
overheating. Norway, which has a $660 billion wealth fund and
the biggest budget surplus of any AAA rated nation, has been
used by investors as a haven from  Europe ’s turmoil. Credit
default swaps suggest Norway is the world’s safest investment.  Governor Oeystein Olsen has indicated he may raise rates as
soon as March to cool growth in Western Europe’s largest oil
exporter. He has kept the  benchmark rate  at 1.5 percent since
March this year, after cutting it by 0.75 percentage point over
two meetings.  The krone gained 0.2 percent to 7.3318 per euro as of 3:07
p.m. in Oslo.  Gains in the import-weighted krone index have already
surpassed the Norwegian central bank’s forecasts. Policy makers
predicted the index would average 87 this year before
appreciating to 85.75 in 2013, according to the bank’s latest
Monetary Policy Report. In 2011, the rate averaged 88.1. A lower
reading indicates a stronger currency.  Rate Cut?  Persistent krone appreciation may increase the chances of a
rate cut, according to Nils Knudsen, a rate and currency
strategist at  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  in Oslo.  “If the krone continues to strengthen gradually, I think
expectations of a possible cut in the medium term would, as a
consequence, increase,” he said. “Current pricing from the
front forward rates suggest no change in the key rate in 2013.
The risk is that an even stronger krone going forward could put
pressure on these contracts on the downside, hence putting in
place a probability of a cut in the medium term.”  While the surging krone is hurting exporters such as  Norsk
Hydro ASA (NHY) , policy makers are seeking to contain a run-away
housing market. Home prices are surging at an annual rate of
more than 7 percent and private debt burdens next year may
exceed 200 percent of disposable incomes, the central bank
estimates.  Erica Blomgren, a chief strategist at  SEB AB (SEBA)  in Oslo, said
in a note on Dec. 4  that any further krone strength will put
the bank in a “tough position.”  Negative Rates  The Swiss National Bank’s key rate is at about zero, while
the European Central Bank’s benchmark is at 0.75 percent. A
higher rate boosts returns for currency investors. Credit Suisse
is said to be imposing rates as low as minus 1 percent for
institutional cash balances, according to three people with
knowledge of the fees.  Switzerland’s central bank imposed a cap of 1.20 francs per
euro in September 2011 to protect the economy from haven flows
after investors pushed the exchange rate toward parity. In
 Denmark , the central bank has set a negative rate to limit the
appeal of its krone and defend a peg to the euro. That’s
prompted banks in the U.S.,  Canada  and  Sweden  to start charging
clients for their krone-denominated deposits.  Olsen has so far rejected a cap in Norway, saying in April
that the country has “other measures.” He said in June that
the currency’s appreciation is a natural outcome of Norway’s
divergence from Europe’s crisis outlook.  Forward Contracts  Norwegian three-month forward-rate agreements for March was
at 1.89 percent today down from a high of 1.96 percent last
month. The contracts settle to the three-month Norwegian
interbank offered rate, which was at 1.89 percent today.  The krone has gained 5.6 percent versus the euro and 6.2
percent against the dollar this year.  Norway ’s statistics office
said today it estimates the krone will average 7.2 per euro in
2013, compared with 7.5 this year.  Norway is drawing investors as oil wealth generated from
its offshore deposits over the past 40 years has allowed the
economy to withstand the worst of Europe’s debt crisis. It costs
less to insure against a default of Norwegian government debt
for five years using credit-default swaps than it does to guard
against non-payment on U.S. government debt. Norway’s default
swaps traded at 17 basis points yesterday, compared with 37 for
the U.S., according to data available on Bloomberg.  Growth Outlook  The central bank predicts the  mainland economy , which
excludes oil, gas and shipping, will expand 3.75 percent this
year. That compares with a 0.4 percent contraction in the euro
area, according to European Commission Nov. 7 forecasts.  Norway’s statistics office today cut its estimate for
growth in the nation’s onshore economy in 2013. Mainland GDP
will expand 2.9 percent next year, versus a previous estimate
for 3.1 percent, the Oslo-based office said. Growth will
accelerate to 3.5 percent in 2014, it said. That compares with a
contraction of 0.3 percent for 2013 and an expansion of 1
percent the following year in the 17-member euro area, according
to European Central Bank estimates published today.  Norway’s “AAA rating obviously is still appealing,
especially as markets are questioning a little whether other
AAAs will remain in place,” HSBC’s Maher said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  