-- TD Bank, CIBC Top Estimates on Investment Banking
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r ,   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-12-06T21:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/td-bank-cibc-top-estimates-as-investment-banking-fuels-profits.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and  Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce  posted profits that beat analysts’
estimates, helped by gains from their  investment-banking  units.
 National Bank of Canada  matched estimates after reporting a 20
percent earnings gain.  Toronto-Dominion, the country’s second-largest lender, said
net income for the period ended Oct. 31 was little changed at
C$1.6 billion ($1.61 billion), or C$1.66 a share. CIBC, the
fifth-biggest bank, said profit rose 13 percent to C$852
million, or C$2.02 a share. National, the No. 6 bank, had net
income of C$351 million, or C$1.97 a share.  The three banks benefited from higher trading revenue and
fees from advising companies on takeovers and arranging stock
sales, helping counter rising provisions for bad loans. Royal
Bank of Canada and  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  also beat estimates, fueled
by gains in investment banking and trading.  “Investment banking and trading were modestly better than
expectations and the trends are positive,” Stephen Carlin, head
of equities at Aegon Capital Management Inc. in Toronto, which
manages C$8.5 billion, said in a phone interview. “There’s a
slightly better economic environment. When you look at how
things were a year ago, they were pretty darned ugly.”  Tops Estimates  Toronto-Dominion earned C$1.83 a share on an adjusted
basis, topping the C$1.81 a share average  estimate  of 15
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. CIBC said it had adjusted
earnings of C$2.04 a share, beating the C$1.99 a share average
 estimate  of 16 analysts. National said it earned C$1.93 a share,
 matching  the average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Toronto-Dominion led the stock decline of Canadian banks in
trading,  falling  1.8 percent to close at C$81.12 in Toronto.
National Bank fell 1.4 percent to C$76.66 and CIBC fell 0.5
percent to C$80.14.  Toronto-Dominion set aside C$565 million for bad loans, 66
percent more than a year ago, while CIBC had C$328 million in
provisions, a 7.2 percent increase. National’s provisions fell 8
percent to C$46 million.  “In  Canada  we’ve reached a point where our consumer debt
is looking more precarious than the U.S., and mortgages are
getting tighter,” Michael Sprung, president of Sprung & Co.
Investment Counsel Inc. in Toronto, said in an interview.
“Going forward, there’s some headwinds our banks are going to
face.”  Epoch Investment  Toronto-Dominion also agreed to buy Epoch Investment
Partners of  New York  for $668 million in cash.  “It’s going to add to our Canadian capabilities, as well
as our U.S. wealth story, and this is a very high-quality
franchise,” Chief Financial Officer Colleen Johnston said in a
telephone interview.  Toronto-Dominion said Canadian consumer banking profit
climbed 6.9 percent to C$806 million while U.S.  consumer lending 
rose 7.1 percent to C$316 million.  “I think we’re seeing very good numbers in the U.S., with
more to come in 2013,” Johnston said. The bank reiterated its
goal of earning $1.6 billion in U.S. consumer banking profit by
the end of next year.  Profit from its investment-banking unit rose 10 percent to
C$309 million, driven by a 54 percent increase in underwriting
and advisory fees and higher trading income.  The Toronto-based bank reiterated its medium-term earnings
per share goal of 7 percent to 10 percent growth.  Canadian Imperial  Canadian Imperial benefited from a 58 percent increase in
profit at its investment-banking unit and gains in  wealth
management , offsetting a drop in earnings from consumer lending.  Consumer lending and business banking earnings fell 4.7
percent to C$569 million from a year ago, after winding down its
FirstLine Mortgages broker business. The Toronto-based bank
reorganized its consumer lending business to shift away from
using mortgage brokers in favor of selling home loans and other
financial products through branches.  CIBC’s “decision to exit the mortgage broker network and
its impact on fourth quarter domestic retail loan growth could
lead the market to conclude that it’s earnings growth could be
one of the slowest of the group next year,”  John Aiken , an
analyst with Barclays Plc in Toronto, said in a note.  Wealth management profit was C$84 million, up from C$70
million in the year-earlier period, while the lender’s
investment banking business had profit of C$193 million, up from
C$122 million a year ago, on a 26 percent surge in underwriting
and advisory fees and a 41 percent increase in trading.  National said personal and commercial banking profit rose 7
percent to C$168 million on higher revenue from lending and
credit cards. The lender’s Financial Markets business, which
includes investment banking, rose 57 percent to C$124 million,
on higher underwriting and advisory fees and trading revenues.
Wealth management earnings fell 10 percent to C$45 million.  The Montreal-based lender increased its quarterly  dividend 
to 83 cents a share.  Bank of Nova Scotia , the third-largest lender, reports
results tomorrow, wrapping up the quarterly earnings releases of
the country’s biggest banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  