-- Daily Beast Considers Charging for Website
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-12-06T21:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/daily-beast-considers-charging-for-website.html
Newsweek /Daily Beast Co., the media
company founded by Tina Brown and backed by billionaire  Barry Diller , is considering charging readers for access to its Daily
Beast website for the first time.  The New York-based company, which merged with  Newsweek
magazine  last year, is contemplating a shift to so-called
metered access, spokesman Andrew Kirk said. That approach, used
by the  New York  Times and other publications, typically lets
readers see a number of stories for free and then charges for
anything beyond that.  “Like many other media companies, we are exploring metered
access down the line,” Kirk said in an interview.  The proposal would follow a decision to cut staff and cease
publication of Newsweek as a print magazine, ending the weekly’s
eight-decade run. The last print edition in the U.S. will be the
Dec. 31 issue.  The company, a unit of Diller’s  IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI) ,  plans
to reintroduce  Newsweek as an electronic publication -- with
paying subscribers -- early next year. The idea is to capitalize
on the growth of e-readers and tablets such as Apple Inc.’s
iPad.  While some of the magazine’s content will still be
available on the Daily Beast site, Newsweek’s shift to a paid-
subscription model may put more pressure on the Daily Beast to
do the same. Visitors to Newsweek and Daily Beast are currently 
directed to the same Web address, making it difficult to impose 
restrictions on just one of the publications.  Brown, who serves as the Daily Beast’s editor-in-chief,
founded the company with Diller in 2008 as a hub for Internet
news and commentary. Brown was previously the editor of  Vanity
Fair , the  New Yorker  and Talk.  Since then, IAC’s media operations have been a drag on the
company’s results. The division that includes the Daily Beast
lost $13.2 million last quarter.  Both the Daily Beast and Newsweek newsrooms are cutting
jobs today, Brown said in a memo to staff.  Newsweek  was on track
to lose $22 million this year before plans to close the print
edition were announced, a person familiar with the matter said
earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  