-- Debt Deal Seen Saving U.S. Companies $60 Billion: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   M a r k   R o h n e r
-- 2012-12-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-06/debt-deal-seen-saving-u-s-companies-60-billion-bgov-barometer.html
A deficit-reduction package on the
scale contemplated by President  Barack Obama  and Republicans in
Congress would deliver long-term benefits to U.S. corporations
and their shareholders as well as to taxpayers, according to
Bloomberg Government analysts.  The BGOV Barometer shows that a $4 trillion combination of
spending cuts and tax increases over 10 years would result in
annual savings of $60 billion in corporate borrowing costs. A
package as large as $9 trillion would produce annual interest
savings of as much as $168 billion, Bloomberg Government
projects in a study published yesterday.  A lower cost of capital would lift the stock-market value
of public companies in the U.S. by $1.1 trillion to $2.3
trillion in 10 years, depending on the size of the package.
Closely held businesses also would benefit from lower  capital
costs , the Bloomberg Government analytic team led by Director of
Research  Robert Litan  concludes in the study.  “These capital-cost and equity-value benefits of a
potential budget deal deserve more attention from firms, the
investment community and most importantly the budget negotiators
than they have so far received,” Litan said.  Interest rates  are near historic lows after five years of
monetary-policy easing by the  Federal Reserve  to counter the
deepest economic slump since the Great Depression. While
borrowing costs will head higher as the economy recovers, a
credible deficit reduction plan “would restrain the eventual
increase in rates,” the analysts say in the study.  Gale-Orszag  The analysts calculated reductions in corporate borrowing
costs using a formula developed by William Gale, director of
economic studies at the  Brookings Institution , and  Peter Orszag ,
former director of the White House Office of Management and
Budget. Gale and Orszag’s work showed that an increase in the
budget  deficit  equivalent to 1 percent of gross domestic product
raises interest rates on 10-year Treasuries by 0.25 to 0.35
percentage point.  The Bloomberg Government analysis found that a $4 trillion
debt-reduction deal would hold back an anticipated rise in
interest rates by about half a percentage point by 2022,
triggering the $60 billion savings in company borrowing bills.  Traders currently anticipate 10-year Treasury rates will
rise to 2.94 percent in 2022, from 1.59 percent currently,
according to interest-rate swap data compiled by Bloomberg.  While a $4 trillion agreement is the arrangement “most
likely to be put in place,” it’s not enough to put the
government on sound fiscal footing, Bloomberg Government
analysts found. They said it would take a 10-year package of
$5.9 trillion in  deficit reduction  to stabilize the debt-to-GDP
ratio at current levels. A $9 trillion deal with revenue
increases and cost reductions would be necessary “to ensure the
country’s long-run fiscal soundness,” the analysts found.  Automatic Cuts  Obama and Republicans in Congress are seeking a
comprehensive deficit-reduction package to let them avoid the
$600 billion in tax increases and automatic spending cuts,
commonly referred to as the fiscal cliff, set to begin in
January.  Republicans have rejected Obama’s proposal to raise $1.6
trillion in taxes, including raising rates on the top 2 percent
of earners.  House Republicans  offered a $2.2 trillion plan that
would trim Medicare and Social Security costs and cap tax
deductions for the top income brackets. Obama said Dec. 4 that
limiting deductions is not enough and he will make no deal that
doesn’t include higher rates on the wealthiest taxpayers.  Not all companies would benefit equally from a budget deal,
the Bloomberg study found. For example, “some companies would
not trade spending cuts to their government contracting business
for a reduced interest on their debt.”  Any stock-market benefit will take time and will depend on
whether investors view a deficit-reduction agreement as
credible, the study said.  “It is conceivable that the stock market reaction
estimated here could manifest itself even before a deal is
signed -- just as soon as it is clear that it will be signed,”
the analysts said in the study. “At the same time, because of
the multi-year nature of any deal, investors may take a ‘wait
and see’ approach and only gradually push stock prices up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Rohner at   mrohner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Ellis  at   dellis5@bloomberg.net  